@@118327410 <p> Romania 's ruling Social Democrats ( PSD ) were leading in Sunday 's parliamentary elections , but the far right secured big gains , exit polling found , deepening uncertainty in a country rocked by political chaos . <p> Shortly after the end of voting at 9:00 pm ( 1900 GMT ) , the PSD was credited with 26 percent of the vote , ahead of the other parties , according to the poll published by local media . <p> However , all the far-right parties combined stood at about 30 percent . <p> If confirmed by official results expected later in the evening , it would indicate a fragmented parliament as well as difficult negotiations to form a government . <p> The parliamentary vote comes at a time of political turmoil sparked when a top court ordered a recount of the first round of Romania 's November 24 presidential election . <p> Last week 's first-round presidential ballot was won by Calin Georgescu , a little-known far-right admirer of Russian President Vladimir Putin . A run-off is slated for December 8 . <p> The far right 's surprise success has raised fears in the West that it could potentially herald a shift in the foreign policy of the NATO country and EU member , which borders Ukraine . <p> " It is an important signal that Romanians have sent to the political class , " said Social Democrat Prime Minister Marcel Ciolacu after the exit poll was published , adding that the country should continue on its European path , while " protecting our identity , national values and faith " . <p> Earlier on Sunday , several voters like Dorina Burcea voiced concern that Romania might turn away from its pro-European path . <p> " As someone who lived a little bit under communism and still remembers it -- and at the same time could enjoy all this openness of the European Union , to be able to go to other countries -- I ca n't imagine how we could have another option than the EU and NATO , " the 41-year-old told AFP . <p> Voter turnout stood at 52 percent after polls closed , a record high in 20 years . <p> " Today the Romanian people voted for the pro-sovereignty forces , " said far-right AUR leader George Simion , who had won nearly 14 percent of the presidential vote . <p> " It is the beginning of a new era in which the Romanian people reclaim the right to decide their destiny , " he added . <p> The extreme-right SOS Romania party , led by firebrand Diana Sosoaca , and the recently founded Party of Young People ( POT ) , were each credited with more than five percent of the vote and are expected to enter parliament . <p> Since the fall of Communism in 1989 , the country of 19 million people has never seen such a breakthrough by the far right . But anger over soaring inflation and fears of being dragged into Russia 's war in neighbouring Ukraine have mounted . <p> For George Sorin , a 45-year-old economist in Bucharest , the current parliament had mostly served the interests of Ukraine by sending aid and had prioritised the European Union over " national interests " . <p> In the opposing pro-EU camp , the centrist USR party , led by Elena Lasconi -- who placed second in the presidential ballot -- secured 15 percent of the vote , just like the liberals . <p> - Russian interference - <p> The parliamentary election took place at a delicate time , with the top court 's order to recount the ballots of the first round of the presidential election causing widespread confusion . <p> After casting his vote in the city of Focsani , AUR leader Simion alleged that some people were " trying to repeat the ( presidential ) election to get the outcome they desire " . <p> " Last Sunday , the Romanian people spoke , " he said , insisting the result of the presidential vote should be respected . <p> " No decision made during this crucial period should limit the right of Romanians to vote freely nor further put at risk the credibility of the election process , " said the US Embassy in Romania . <p> According to Septimius Parvu of the Expert Forum think tank , the recount order by Romania 's Constitutional Court had " many negative effects " , including undermining confidence in Romanian institutions . <p> " We 've already recounted votes in Romania in the past , but not millions of votes , with parliamentary elections in the middle of it all , " Parvu said . <p> bur-kym/js/jhb <h> Latest stories <p> Hundreds of protesters gathered in Bucharest after a far-right populist unexpectedly won the first round of a presidential race , plunging Romania into turmoil just days before the country holds parliamentary elections . Sunday 's ballot will determine a new government and prime minister to lead the European Union and NATO member country . Calin Georgescu is due to face reformist Elena Lasconi of the Save Romania Union party in a Dec. 8 runoff . <p> Iceland 's opposition Social Democrats overtook the governing Independence Party of Prime Minister Bjarni Benediktsson after a snap election prompted by the collapse of his fraught coalition government , public broadcaster RUV reported Sunday.Prime Minister Bjarni Benediktsson 's Independence Party trailed the Social Democrats with 19.4 percent , down from the 24.4 percent it won in 2021 , marking the worst result the party had ever recorded . <p> Romanians voted on Sunday in a parliamentary election sandwiched between two rounds of the presidential race , the first of which has plunged the European Union and NATO member into unprecedented turmoil following allegations of electoral violations and Russian interference . Sunday 's vote will elect a new government and prime minister and determine the formation of the 466-seat legislature . When polls closed locally at 9 p.m. , about 9.4 million people -- about 52.3% of eligible voters -- had cast ballots , according to the Central Election Bureau . <p> STORY : U.S. President-elect Donald Trump said on Saturday ( November 30 ) he wants former National Security official Kash Patel to lead the FBI , signaling plans to carry out his threat to eject the bureau 's current director , Christopher Wray.Forty-four-year-old Patel is a Trump loyalist who advised both the director of national intelligence and secretary of defense during the Republican 's first term in the White House.He has previously called for stripping the FBI of its intelligence-gathering role and purging its ranks of any employee who refuses to support Trump 's agenda.In a September interview on a conservative podcast , Patel said : " The biggest problem the FBI has had , has come out of its intel shops . I 'd break that component out of it . I 'd shut down the FBI Hoover building on day one and reopen it the next day as a museum of the deep state . " Current director Wray 's term does not expire until 2027 . FBI directors are appointed to 10-year terms by law as a means of insulating the bureau from politics.Trump himself appointed Wray to the role during his first term . But he has since come under fire from Trump and his supporters , who have accused the FBI and other federal agencies of " weaponizing " law enforcement to silence critics on the right and target political enemies.It was under Wray that the FBI carried out a court-approved search at Trump 's Mar-a-Lago estate to look for classified documents . Wray has also faced criticism for his role overseeing a directive by Attorney General Merrick Garland , aimed at working to protect local school boards from violent threats and harassment.An FBI spokesperson did not directly comment on Patel 's nomination on Saturday , saying : " Every day , the men and women of the FBI continue to work to protect Americans from a growing array of threats . Director Wray 's focus remains on the men and women of the FBI , the people we do the work with , and the people we do the work for . " The appointment will need Senate approval . There will likely be pushback against Patel 's nomination by Senate Democrats , and possibly even some Republicans . <p> The global market spotlight on Monday looks set to zoom in on the dollar , especially its performance against emerging market currencies , after U.S. President-elect Donald Trump 's weekend warning against the so-called ' BRICS ' nations . In a social media post on Saturday , Trump demanded that the ' BRICS ' countries - Brazil , Russia , India , China and South Africa - commit to not creating a new currency or supporting another currency that would replace the U.S. dollar , or face 100% tariffs . This comes after Trump had already injected additional volatility into world currency markets last week by proposing big tariffs against China , Mexico , and Canada - countries the US has some of its largest trade deficits with . <p> STORY : : : Armed men topple a statue of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad 's brother as rebels sweep Aleppo : : Ibrahim Bozan : : November 30 , 2024 : : Aleppo , SyriaBashar Al-Assad vowed to defeat the insurgents by force , the official Syrian news agency reported on Sunday . The Syrian army said dozens of its soldiers had been killed in the attack on Aleppo.Reuters was able to confirm the location by the statue of Bassel al-Assad , roundabout design , buildings and road layout seen in the video , which matched file and satellite imagery of the area . The date was verified by corroborating footage of the same scene . Reuters could not independently verify the affiliation of people seen in the video.Bassel al-Assad was seen as the likely presidential successor to their father , Hafez al-Assad , but he died in a car crash in 1994 . In 2000 , Bashar al-Assad became the President of Syria after his father 's death . <p> A top Bangladeshi politician accused of masterminding a deadly 2004 grenade attack against ex-premier Sheikh Hasina had his conviction quashed Sunday , another step in his expected return from London exile.With his mother in ailing health , Tarique is widely expected to eventually return to Bangladesh after more than 15 years living in exile in London and lead the BNP in her stead . <p> Greenpeace activists boarded a tanker off South Korea on Saturday in an action intended to draw attention to calls for a treaty to curb plastic pollution , the environmental group said.Attempts to reach an agreement on curbing plastic pollution have stalled over several key sticking points , including whether to cut new plastic production . <p> Deeply divided negotiators failed on Sunday to reach a landmark global treaty to curb plastic pollution , missing a self-imposed deadline , and agreed to extend their talks . " If you address plastic pollution , there should be no problem with producing plastics , because the problem is the pollution , not the plastics themselves , " he said . <p> The White House is working on a ceasefire and hostage release deal in Gaza but is " not there yet , " the US National Security Advisor told NBC on Sunday , with fighting in the conflict raging on as regional leaders meet to discuss the crisis.Speaking in Jerusalem on Sunday , Israeli Foreign Minister Gideon Saar said there were " indications " progress could be made on a deal securing the release of hostages by Hamas in Gaza . <p> Donald Trump said Saturday that a surprise meeting with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau in Florida was " very productive , " days after the incoming US leader rattled Ottawa with a vow to impose tariffs on Canadian imports.Afterward , Trump posted on his Truth Social website that he had had " a very productive meeting with Prime Minister Justin Trudeau . " <p> Georgia 's Prime Minister on Sunday ruled out new parliamentary elections amid a post-election crisis that has seen his legitimacy questioned both at home and internationally.The Black Sea nation has been rocked by turmoil since the governing Georgian Dream party claimed victory in an October 26 parliamentary election that the pro-European opposition said was fraudulent.The opposition is boycotting the new parliament , while pro-EU President Salome Zurabishvili has sought to annul the election result through the country 's constitutional court , declaring the new legislature and government " illegitimate " . Thousands have taken to the streets to protest alleged electoral fraud as well as the government 's decision on Thursday to shelve talks on joining the European Union until 2028 . When asked&amp;nbsp ; whether Georgian Dream would agree to hold a new ballot , Prime Minister Irakli Kobakhidze told journalists : " Of course not . " " The formation of the new government based on the October 26 parliamentary elections has been completed , " he said.Critics accuse Georgian Dream , in power for more than a decade , of having steered the country away from the EU in recent years and of moving closer to Russia , an accusation it denies.Earlier this week , the party nominated far-right former football international Mikheil Kavelashvili for the largely ceremonial post of president.Under constitutional changes pushed through by Georgian Dream in 2017 , the president will for the first time be chosen by an electoral college instead of a popular vote.But Zurabishvili told AFP in an exclusive interview on Saturday that she would not step down until last month 's contested parliamentary elections are re-run. - ' Only legitimate institution ' -Brussels has abstained from recognising the outcome of the October elections and demanded an investigation into " serious electoral irregularities " . The European Parliament adopted a resolution rejecting Georgian Dream 's victory , calling for a re-run and for sanctions to be imposed on top Georgian officials , including Kobakhidze.Zurabishvili said Saturday that she had set up a " national council " of opposition parties and civil society representatives , which would ensure " stability in this country " . Calling herself " the only legitimate institution in the country " , Zurabishvili said that " as long as there are no new elections ... my mandate continues " . " Nobody outside Georgia , democratic partners , nobody has recognised ( October 's ) the elections , " she added . " I will be the representative of this legitimate , stable transition , " she said.Constitutional law experts , including one author of Georgia 's constitution , Vakhtang Khmaladze , told AFP that any decisions made by the new parliament -- including the nomination of Kobakhidze as prime minister and the coming presidential election -- would be invalid.That is because parliament had approved its own credentials in violation of a legal requirement to await a court ruling on Zurabishvili 's bid to annul the election results , they said.Kobakhidze 's announcement on Thursday that Georgia would not seek accession talks with the European Union until 2028 sparked a fresh wave of nationwide anti-government protests.Thousands of people gathered in Georgia 's capital Tbilisi on Saturday for a third night of protests that saw dozens arrested.Chaotic scenes unfolded for hours as police chased defiant protesters through the streets of central Tbilisi , beating them and making arrests.Masked officers in riot gear fired rubber bullets , tear gas and water cannons as they moved in to disperse protesters hurling fireworks , while flames were seen coming from a window of the parliament building.Protests were also held in numerous other cities across Georgia. - International condemnation -Hundreds of public servants , including from the ministries of foreign affairs , defence and education , as well as a number of judges , issued joint statements protesting Kobakhidze 's decision.More than 200 Georgian diplomats criticised the move as contradicting the constitution and leading the country " into international isolation " . A number of Georgia 's ambassadors resigned , while around 100 schools and universities suspended academic activities in protest.After the October vote , a group of Georgia 's leading election monitors said they had evidence of a complex scheme of large-scale electoral fraud.The crackdown on protests has provoked international condemnation.The EU 's new foreign policy chief Kaja Kallas on Sunday warned Georgian authorities over violence against demonstrators . &amp;nbsp ; US State Department spokesman Matthew Miller said : " We condemn excessive force used against Georgians exercising their freedom to protest and have suspended our Strategic Partnership with Georgia . " France , Britain , Ukraine , Poland , Sweden and Lithuania were among other countries to voice concern.im/cad/js <p> The U.S. Navy is transforming a costly flub into a potent weapon with the first shipborne hypersonic weapon , which is being retrofitted aboard the first of its three stealthy destroyers . The USS Zumwalt is at a Mississippi shipyard where workers have installed missile tubes that replace twin turrets from a gun system that was never activated because it was too expensive . Once the system is complete , the Zumwalt will provide a platform for conducting fast , precision strikes from greater distances , adding to the usefulness of the warship . <p> Romanians were voting in a parliamentary election on Sunday , in which the far right is expected to gain from uncertainty over whether the shock result in a presidential election will stand . Sunday 's vote is the second of three consecutive ballots for both a new parliament and a new president , after the first round of the presidential election on Nov. 24 saw an independent far-right candidate emerge from relative obscurity to become the front-runner . His unexpected win ushered in support for ultranationalist , hard-right parties , some with overt pro-Russian sympathies , which could upend Romania 's pro-Western orientation and undermine backing for Ukraine , political analysts said . 
@@118328504 <p> JERUSALEM -- The mother of Israeli American hostage Edan Alexander told NBC News she was both shaken and relieved to see her son in a Hamas-issued propaganda video . <p> " To get this video it 's a huge relief for me to see that he 's still strong . It was amazing , " Yael Alexander said in a video call Saturday , hours after the video , captioned " time is running out , " was posted on the Telegram channel of Hamas ' military wing , the Qassam Brigades . <p> Edan grew up in New Jersey and had volunteered to serve with Israel 's military . He was stationed outside Gaza when he was among around 250 people taken hostage during Hamas ' terror attacks on Oct. 7 , 2023 , that also saw 1,200 people killed , according to Israeli tallies . Around 100 people remain in captivity , although a third are believed to be dead . <p> The 20-year-old , who appears under duress in the Hamas video , calls on President-elect Donald Trump to use his power to negotiate for the freedom of those who remain in captivity in Gaza . <p> Edan , who at points can be seen coveringhis face with his hands and crying , adds that he does not want to end up like fellow AmericanIsraeli Hersh Goldberg Polin , who was killed while being held by Hamas in August . <p> " To see him speaking , crying , just to see him -- like , I 'm still shaking , " Yael Alexander said . " He cried a lot in this video . It was very tough to see Edan like this . It was real . It was tough , " she added . <p> " He told me that he 's with us , he 's embracing us , " she said , adding that he told her that he was " going to do whatever he can " to secure a deal to free the remaining hostages . <p> Netanyahu 's office said in a statement after the call that he " feels very much the anguish " of what Edan Alexander and the hostages were going through and assured them that Israel was " working with determination and in every way to return them home , along with all the hostages who are in the hands of the enemy . " <p> Hamas leaders held talks with Egyptian security officials to explore ways to reach a deal with Israel that could secure the release of hostages in return for Palestinian prisoners . <p> The visit was the first since the United States announced on Wednesday it would revive efforts in collaboration with Qatar , Egypt and Turkey to negotiate a ceasefire in Gaza . <p> Hamas is seeking an agreement that would end the war , while Netanyahu has said the war will only end when Hamas is eradicated . <p> Calling the video " a cruel reminder of Hamas 's terror against citizens of multiple countries , " Sean Savett , a spokesperson for the U.S. National Security Council , said in a statement that it had been in touch with the family . <p> Echoing what her son said , Yael Alexander urged Trump to " act now " and work with President Joe Biden to secure the release of the hostages . <p> " This is not an issue for Democrats or Republicans , " she said . This is an issue for everyone to act . This is human life . It 's seven Americans . They need to come back home . " 
@@118332003 <h> Trump Taps Another Daughter 's Father-in-Law for Key Role <p> President-elect Donald Trump has opted to keep it in the family again with some of his latest administrative picks-- this time , with the senior adviser on Arab and Middle Eastern affairs . <p> Trump has appointed Lebanon billionaire Massad Boulos to take on the role . His son , Michael , is married to Tiffany Trump , the president 's youngest daughter . <p> " Massad is an accomplished lawyer and a highly respected leader in the business world , with extensive experience on the International scene , " Trump wrote on his Truth Social account . " He has been a longtime proponent of Republican and Conservative values , an asset to my Campaign , and was instrumental in building tremendous new coalitions with the Arab American Community . " <p> He also called Boulos an " unwavering supporter of PEACE in the Middle East . " <p> Trump 's youngest daughter married Boulos ' son , Michael , in 2022 , with the president-elect even walking her down the aisle . The couple is expecting their first child together . <p> Trump has also named Charles Kushner as the U.S. ambassador to France . Charles Kushner is the father of Jared Kushner , Trump 's son-in-law , who is married to Ivanka Trump . Trump had pardoned Charles Kushner in 2020 after he was convicted on federal charges . <p> MILWAUKEE , WISCONSIN - JULY 16 : Tiffany Trump , daughter of former U.S. President Donald Trump , walks with her husband Michael Boulos ( L ) on the second day of the Republican National Convention at the Fiserv Forum on July 16 , 2024 in Milwaukee , Wisconsin . Delegates , politicians , and the Republican faithful are in Milwaukee for the annual convention , concluding with former President Donald Trump accepting his party 's presidential nomination . The RNC takes place from July 15-18 . ( Photo by Andrew Harnik/Getty Images ) <p> In the role as senior adviser on Arab and Middle Eastern affairs , Boulos may play a big part in the war Gaza , with the United States offering support to Israel under Biden 's administration . 
@@118337805 <h> Bringing tequila to the Negev : Leitner 's agave dream in Israel <p> DO N'T BE fooled ! This is not Mexico but Kibbutz Alumim in the Western Negev. ( photo credit : Avi Leitner ) <p> I met Avi Leitner at Cafeneto in Ra'anana . I was expecting some slickly dressed entrepreneurial whiz kid , bristling with overconfidence and well-rehearsed marketing platitudes . <p> He walked right past me when he came in , and I did n't give him a second look . However , when we finally hooked up , he was the opposite of what I had been expecting . <p> He was like any unassuming New York lawyer and I thought , " What a nice guy , " but I did not detect passion , drive , or the vision of a dreamer . <p> However , although there is no lack of Jewish New York lawyers who have made aliyah , only one has planted blue agave in the Negev in order to make an Israeli expression of a tequila-like alcoholic beverage.Yet again I learned you should not judge a book by its cover . As Leitner told me his story in a slightly self-deprecating , laid-back way , I was gradually struck by everything I missed . The three D 's -- determination , drive , and a dream -- were there all right but slightly camouflaged . AVI LEITNER is the kid with a crazy dream . ( credit : Avi Leitner ) <p> When I came to Israel , the wineries made the main spirits . Carmel Mizrahi made a product from imported molasses called Tehila , which was a poor imitation of tequila . <p> They also had products like Captain Rum and Lord Gin . You get the idea and can imagine the quality . All these disappeared when the import gates opened and the big global brands arrived . <p> When that happened , the feinschmeckers chose Scotch whisky , and the prize for volume went to vodka . <p> It was only in the last 15 years that a local artisan distillery trend began but on a very small scale . Julius Distillery led the way , followed by the likes of Golani , Pelter , M&amp;H , and Yerushalmi . <p> The one that reached the furthest in international circles is the M&amp;H Whisky Distillery , which has brought Israeli whisky to the world . <p> The spirit of choice in the Jewish world is whisky , especially Scotch malt whisky ( without an " e " ) as opposed to American , Canadian , or Irish whiskey ( with an " e " ) . <p> The rise of Kiddush clubs brought the new passion for whisky into the synagogue , and the growing number of whisky mavens would love talking about it , comparing notes almost as much as drinking . Part of the reason for its prominence was , in my opinion , because whisky was regarded as " ' safe treif . " THE PINA , or heart of the blue agave , resembles a pineapple. ( credit : Avi Leitner ) <p> So when Avi Leitner was invited for a tipple on a visit to Mexico , he asked for a whisky . His hosts sniggered among themselves , and he was told in no uncertain terms : " Well , here , we drink tequila . " <p> Thus this New Yorker was introduced to a whole new world . He remembers tequila as something you drank at a high school party to get drunk . <p> After his introduction to the quality and variety of tequila , he described it as every bit as complex and interesting as Scotch . <h> What is tequila ? <p> TEQUILA IS a spirit made in Mexico from the blue agave plant . It is made from the pina , the heart of the plant that looks a little like a pineapple . <p> It is cooked to break it down , crushed to make a mash , fermented , and then distilled twice . Pot stills give a more characterful expression ; continuous stills produce a more commercial , parve result . <p> Tequila is part of the mezcal family . In the same way as cognac is a brandy but not all brandy is cognac , tequila is a mezcal but not all mezcal is tequila . Emily Price , writing in Forbes , described the differences this way : " Tequila is the refined cousin who always follows the rules ; the mezcal is the artsy sibling who is always experimenting . " The product once did not have a good image . I asked someone what he knew about tequila , and he immediately responded : " Yuk , is that the one with a worm in it ? " In fact , the dreaded worm does not appear in tequila . If one appears at all , it will be in a cheap bottle of mezcal . ERAN BRAVERMAN is the person responsible for planting and caring for the blue agave. ( credit : Avi Leitner ) <p> In popular culture , the way to drink tequila in a bar was immortalized in films . It was served in a shot glass with salt and a slice of lime , and required a " lick , sip , and suck " in swift succession . I first became aware of tequila in the cocktail Tequila Sunrise . When I took my first steps in the drinks industry in Britain , every cocktail list seemed to have it . <p> The mixture of tequila , orange juice , and grenadine was striking to look at , particularly in a tall highball glass , hence its popularity . <p> These days , tequila has a more regal image . Perhaps it is most famous internationally as the integral part of the Margarita cocktail . <p> Along with a Negroni and Bloody Mary , it is my favorite cocktail . It is made from tequila , the orange-flavored Triple Sec , and freshly squeezed lime juice , and served with salt around the rim of the glass . <p> It has its own glass , which is a variation of the old champagne coupe ( a broad , flat , shallow glass ) . Though invented in the 1930s , the Margarita has stood the test of time and is usually part of even the shortest cocktail menu . It is zingy and refreshing . <p> A more recent trend asserts that quality tequila is far more rewarding and may be enjoyed differently . The dictionary of tequila includes words such as " joven ; " " bianco , " or " silver " ( young ) ; " reposado " ( aged in oak casks ) ; " anejo " ( barrel aged for a minimum of one year ) ; and " extra anejo " ( aged in casks for at least three years ) . The connoisseur will most likely nurse it in a brandy balloon , neat or on the rocks , and sip it slowly with occasional gentle swirling to release aromas . <p> WHEN LEITNER began to appreciate the nuances of tequila , he could not help noticing the conditions in which blue agave is grown . <p> He was not an entrepreneur , agriculturist , or even in the drinks business , yet in the spark of an idea , he became all three . <p> Of course , he had to have exhaustive patience and reserves of determination he did not know he possessed . <p> The Israeli bureaucracy stood in his way , but if Leitner could not get in the door , he would come down the chimney . <p> The Agriculture Ministry prohibited him from bringing in the plants , so he brought in cell tissue , grew them in a greenhouse for a year , and only then had the plants in hand . He also had to find someone who wanted to grow it . <p> He found willing partners in Kibbutz Alumim in the Western Negev . In Eran Braverman , he discovered a farmer who would have the same passion and eagerness to learn . <h> Dedicated to doing it right <p> They wanted to do it right . Taking advice from Mexican consultants at every step , he utilized Braverman 's skills as a farmer and the supportive commitment of the partners at the kibbutz . <p> They combined Israeli agri-tech and Zionist ingenuity with the natural attributes of the Negev Desert to plant 35 hectares of blue agave in the Negev . The next objective is to build a distillery . <p> Leitner does not just want to grow something unique in Israel , he wants to produce the first authentic tequila-style mezcal -- homegrown , distilled , and matured in the Holy Land . <p> However , he ca n't call it tequila ! That has been a challenge . Imagine the M&amp;H Distillery having to market its world-class product without using the word " whisky . " <p> In the meantime , Leitner has gotten closer to the spirits industry , speaking to all the Israeli players . NEWLY PLANTED young blue agave plants taking root in the Negev. ( credit : Avi Leitner ) <p> He became an investor in the Yerushalmi Distillery , which produces whisky . A good example for him is the very successful Golani Distillery at Katzrin . Leitner describes owner Davi Zibell as a " mentor , consultant , and model " . <p> The principle of investing in agriculture in the Negev began with David Ben-Gurion , who planted agave plants ( though not the blue agave ) at Moshav Gilat in the Negev in the 1950s . <p> Their purpose was to make rope , but when synthetic fibers came to be used , the plants were just left as a memorial to what seemed a good idea at the time . <p> Nineteen Thai and Nepalese workers were murdered in cold blood by the brutal terrorists . Two were kidnapped to Gaza ; one was released , but the other is still there , captive in Sinwar 's tunnels . <p> The plight of the foreign workers is sometimes forgotten because of the sheer mass of the horrors , but they came to work hard , with a smile , showing great loyalty , and were not part of any local dispute . <p> They just got caught up in the nightmare . It showed the brutality of Hamas that they were not spared . <p> The memory of each one of them is a blessing . May their families know no more sorrow . <p> Leitner 's initiative offers hope and support , as well as future tourism and employment in a region so scarred by the most unbelievable and unfathomable expression of evil in our times . <p> Leitner , president of the Blue Agave Israel Group , and his partner , Avi Rosenfeld , have done minimal public relations , preferring to wait until there is a product to show . <p> Leitner is not into gimmicks and does not have to resort to them because he will be the first . Recently , he took a group of journalists and industry influencers to see the Alumim fields growing row upon row of blue agave -- an amazing and impressive sight . <p> In Israel , good ideas are copied , and success can have many fathers . Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery . <p> Do you remember how many frozen yogurt stores and sushi restaurants instantly opened when they first came to Israel ? Well , another company has been formed called Negave Estates . Note the play on words between " Negev " and " agave . " <p> It has done the opposite to Leitner , immediately marketing at the outset and outlining its vision . <p> It has a slick website , full of promises . It will be making its first product distilled in tequila country in Mexico but will mature it in Israel ( like Thinkers Distillery ) . <p> But as of yet , the company is still at the very earliest stage , so even if the vision is exciting , the marketing noise may be premature . However , we will be watching it closely , too . <p> There is a place for everyone ( as is the case with the plethora of new Israeli whiskies ) , and one start-up will help the other . <p> Leitner made aliyah in 1991 and is now 60 . Talking to him , I realized that gloss and marketing slogans do not make authenticity . <p> He is totally authentic and is on a journey that he has forged on his own . <p> When Leonard Cohen was in his mid-70s , the legendary singer/songwriter looked back and described himself at 60 as " just a kid with a crazy dream . " That fits . 
@@118337807 <p> The campaign will be split up into several rounds , starting with towns located zero-to-one kilometers from the border , along with Kiryat Shmona and towns that are located one-to-five kilometers from the border . The next phase will include other towns and cities located within five to nine kilometers from the border . <p> In Kiryat Shmona alone , the plan is to build around 1,700 safe rooms , while for the entire one-to-five kilometer area , the plan is to build around 10,000 safe rooms . <p> In the next phase -- the five-to-nine kilometer towns and cities -- there will be even more than 10,000 additional safe rooms , though the numbers are less set for this area given that the process is just starting . <p> On average , the ministry will provide NIS 132,000 for each residence to add a safe room , with a total expected expenditure of around NIS 1.2 billion . A bomb shelter in the center of Israel is opened in preparation for retaliation from Gaza after overnight launch of Operation Shield and Arrow , May 9 , 2023. ( credit : AVSHALOM SASSONI/MAARIV ) <p> Conceptually , the program will include each resident moving the process forward on their own , but with the government providing the funding and also declaring an exemption from the standard bureaucratic approval process for home additions , which can easily take two years . <p> In a briefing , the ministry said it was unsure how long the process will take , but plans for it to start already in early 2025 and hopes that granting the procedural exemptions and the financing will move the process forward much more rapidly than the standard process would take . A later press release was less optimistic , saying the process would only start in April 2025 . <h> Funding for school safe rooms <p> Separately , the ministry is granting funding and streamlining procedures for building safe areas and security solutions for schools and other such communal structures , starting again first with the 0-5 kilometer range . <p> NIS 250 million have been allocated so far for this process . <p> Col. Yaniv Balfour and his deputy for engineering , Orna Raviv , said they were in the process of resolving special bureaucratic issues for certain non-Jewish villages in the area , including where some of the residences might have been built without a permit . <p> However , they were unclear about when and how the special issues would be resolved , while saying they were committed that all villages in the area be made secure . <p> In the past , government projects to add safe rooms in the South , both for Israeli-Jews , but especially for some non-Jewish towns , have lagged behind whatever planned time-frame was set for such projects . 
@@118337810 <h> A police spokesperson said that Israel Police is conducting scans to locate fallen remnants of the intercepted missile . <p> A ballistic missile was launched from Yemen , the IDF announced early Sunday morning , after sirens sounded in multiple areas across central Israel . <p> The IAF intercepted it prior to its crossing into Israeli territory . <p> A police spokesperson said that Israel Police was conducting scans in the city of Beit Shemesh and surrounding communities to locate fallen remnants of the intercepted missile . <p> Four people were injured on their way to protected areas in Rishon Lezion , Rehovot , Be'er Ya'akov , and Lod , Israel 's emergency service Magen David Adon ( MDA ) said , adding that others were being treated for anxiety . <p> The Houthis military spokesman , Yahya Sarea , responded to the missile launch , saying that the group will continue its attacks until " Israeli aggression on the Gaza Strip is halted , and the siege is lifted . " Houthi military spokesman , Yahya Sarea , looks on during a rally to show support to Palestinians in the Gaza Strip and Lebanon 's Hezbollah , in Sanaa , Yemen September 27 , 2024. ( credit : KHALED ABDULLAH/REUTERS ) 
@@118337817 <h> The proposition that " Israel is an Apartheid State Responsible for Genocide , " passed 278-59 after a debate which saw opposition speakers jeered and shouted at . <p> TENTS ARE pitched outside the Oxford University Museum of Natural History , as students occupy parts of British campuses in support of Palestinians in Gaza , this week . Supporters of genocidal jihadist groups are spreading mayhem across the Western world , says the writer . ( photo credit : HOLLIE ADAMS/REUTERS ) <p> The Oxford Union debate society voted that Israel is an apartheid state engaged in an active genocide of Palestinians following a contentious Thursday debate marred by interruptions , heckling , and the ejection of participants . <p> Abulhawa said in a Friday X post that the opposition team was met with jeering when it entered the auditorium , while the full chamber cheered the proposition team 's entrance and remarks . Israeli writer and Haddad 's partner Emily Schrader said on social media that Peled and El-Kurd had refused to shake hands with their opponents and the entire pro-resolution team declined to take a joint photograph with the opposition team . El-Kurd left early , according to Abulhawa , because it dishonored him to be in the same room as the opposition participants . Abulhawa and Peled called the opposition genocide deniers . <p> Sacerdoti was repeatedly mocked and shouted at during his remarks , according to an audio recording the Oxford alum published on YouTube on Friday . One audience member could be heard yelling " lies " in response to Sacerdoti 's assertion that Israel had overseen the delivery of humanitarian aid to avoid starvation . <p> " I understand that there are plenty of people in this room who do n't agree with us , who do n't like us , but this esteemed establishment is meant to be a bastion of free speech discussion , and debate , and this example is not any of these things , " said Sacerdoti , who had called for the removal of a audience member . <h> Hostile event or educated debate ? <p> Abulhawa recalled on X the " memorable moment " when an audience member called Hassan Yousef a " whore " in Arabic when he went to the podium . Schrader , who attended the event , said on X that Osman Mowafy had ignored such behavior but sought to remove Hassan Yousef from the debate for insulting Palestinians because he stated that the " Palestinians are pathetic in their behavior . " <p> Haddad was ejected from the debate when he challenged an audience member who lamented the deaths of Gazan civilians , questioning if they also were concerned about the safety of Muslim hostages held by Hamas . Haddad claimed on social media on Friday that a picture of Rahat residents Yousef and Hamza al-Ziyadna that he had presented had been thrown on the floor and stomped on . He and Schrader further charged that he had been subjected to curses in Arabic . When Haddad was expelled from the chamber he donned a t-shirt emblazoned with the text " Your terrorist hero is dead , we did that . " The activist said that the " hostile event " had been surrounded by protesters and he had to leave under protection of security . <p> Sacerdoti said on X that " The evening was a shameful and grotesque mockery of educated debate , interrupted constantly by shrieking , threats and outright hatred . " " The union needs to look closely at the behavior of its president and committee and rethink how it treats the speakers it invites and how it conducts itself more broadly , " he continued in another social media post on Saturday . " It has been trashed by the behavior of the aggressive mob that attended yesterday and needs to rebuild its reputation if it is to be taken seriously again . " <p> Abulhawa acknowledged that the audience " was not kind " to the pro-Israel speakers , but that her team had also been heckled . <p> " The opposition employed theatrics , screaming , insults , bullying , lies , and mostly incoherent arguments , " Abulhawa said on social media . " Watching truth break through decades of layered Zionist propaganda in real time was stunning , truly a sight to behold . " <p> Sacerdoti argued that the proposition was intended to inflame and aggravate rather than inform and that the pro-resolution speakers were the most " aggressive . " He contended during his speech that the events in the Levant did not meet the definitions of genocide and apartheid , notably the " intent " needed for judging such crimes . In contrast to the October 7 attacks and the Hamas perpetrators that the Jewish writer said sought to impose genocide and apartheid in the region , the allegations against Israel demeaned actual genocides and systems of racial domination . Sacerdoti contended that there were no racial policies in the vein of Nazi Germany nor blatant actionable calls for the death of ethnic group members as in Rwanda . <p> " Just because you dislike losing an unnecessary war you started does n't make something a genocide , " said Sacerdoti . <p> Abulhawa claimed in her remarks that Zionist leaders had made calls for genocide since even before the state of Israel 's inception and that the IDF had engaged in tactics of extermination such as supposed booby-traps targeting children and allegedly ambushing Palestinians after luring them out with humanitarian aid . Abulhawa estimated that 300,000 Gazans , primarily civilians , had been murdered by Israel , and other civilians had been systematically corralled , starved , and raped . <p> The Palestinian writer argued in the remarks she published on Saturday that Israeli Jews had no connection to the land of Israel , made evident by the supposed targeting of olive trees and archeological sites and Israelis Hebraizing their names . <p> " Someday , your impunity and arrogance will end . Palestine will be free , " said Abulhawa . " We will put an end to the Zionist American war machine of domination , expansion , extraction , pollution , and looting -- and you will either leave , or you will finally learn to live with others as equals . " <p> Haddad attributed the overwhelming support for the proposition to the audience being majority Arab in origin , noting on social media on Saturday that he heard " more Arabic than English . " Hassan Yousef , who had been called a " collaborator " by pro-Palestinian participants , said that the " Oxford Union is controlled by terrorist supporters . " <p> " Last night I asked the participants and pro-'Palestine ' opponents during a debate at Oxford Union if they would have reported Hamas plans to authorities to prevent October 7 massacre . 75% of the participants voted they would have chosen not to report Hamas plans to the authorities , " said the activist , whose father was a co-founder of Hamas . <p> UKLFI chief executive Jonathan Turner told The Jerusalem Post on Sunday that many Jewish and other students did not attend the debate because of the atmosphere of hostility that had developed at academic institutions . " I have no doubt that the speakers against the motion did a superb job , despite the efforts to intimidate and interrupt them , as will be evident if and when the Oxford Union posts a video of the event , " said Turner . <p> Hassan Yousef said Saturday that the opposition had not won the vote , but had " certainly won the debate " as would be revealed if footage was published . <p> The debate roster had been modified several times ahead of the event , according to Abulhawa . Israeli Academic had declined to attend in July , the Jewish Chronicle reported , and Abulhawa claimed that Historian Benny Morris pulled out because former Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak was denied a speaking slot . Norman Finkelstein reportedly backed out because Morris would not be on the opposition team , but Abulhawa claimed that Finkelstein did n't want to attend because he was a " white American savior " who wanted to be " treated as a star " and did n't want to be " overshadowed by actual Palestinians . " 
@@118337818 <h> " I faced insults , boos , and threats during the confrontation , but there was one thing I was n't willing to tolerate -- the disgrace of our hostages , " Haddad said about what occurred . <p> Arab-Israeli journalist and activist for Israel Yoseph Haddad was kicked out of an Oxford Union debate on Thursday , footage on social media showed . <p> The debate , which attracted pro-Palestine protesters , concluded in a vote that determined " Israel was an apartheid state responsible for genocide . " This was passed by 278 votes to 59 , according to a Friday Jewish Chronicle report . <p> Haddad posted on X/Twitter that he was kicked out because he " was not ready to accept the humiliation of the Israeli hostages . " <p> Footage posted on X showed Haddad being escorted out of the event as people in the audience shouted in his direction . <p> When explaining in a post on X what happened at the event , Haddad began by writing that " Oxford was occupied by supporters of terrorism . 90% of the participants are distinctly anti-Israeli . " Yoseph Haddad at a London demonstration calling for support for Israel and the return of the hostages . ( credit : Elliot Jacobs ) <p> He then continued to explain that during the " biased discussion , " extreme statements were made that supported terrorism and the October 7 Hamas attacks . <p> " When one audience member cried over Gaza residents in an exaggerated and insincere manner , I pulled out a photo of the Muslim hostages and asked if she was crying for them , too . One participant took the photo , threw it on the floor , and others stepped on it , " Haddad continued . <p> " I faced insults , boos , and threats during the confrontation , but there was one thing I was n't willing to tolerate -- the disgrace of our hostages , " Haddad wrote and then added that afterward , he demanded the audience members be removed . <p> " I was n't willing to let the discussion continue , even when the anti-Israel moderator , who was practically part of the confrontation , warned me . In the end , he decided to have me removed from the hall , " Haddad explained . <p> He also added that before he was kicked out of the event hall , he put a T-shirt over his suit that featured former Hezbollah head Hassan Nasrallah and had a large X marked over his face with the text , " Your hero-terrorist is dead ! We did that . " <h> Escorted by eight security guards to ' stay alive ' <p> In an additional post that Haddad shared on X after the event , he posted a video of him in which he explained how he had to be escorted by eight security guards " in order to stay alive . " <p> " Everyone is talking about freedom of speech , freedom of speech . That 's fine , but it 's freedom of speech only for one side . When it comes to the Israeli side , the freedom of speech stops , and that 's why we need the security to be with me all the time . " <p> As he waited for security to arrive , the video continued , " Waiting for evacuation from Oxford . Not from Gaza , not from Lebanon , not from a terrorist that has war . From Oxford . Because Oxford has been occupied by anti-Israel terrorist support from the Middle East . " <p> When the security guards came to escort Haddad back to London , where he was staying , the video concluded with him saying , " We need eight security guards in order to take us back to safety . Oh UK , you are in trouble . " <h> Additional attendees of the debate <p> Mossab Hassan Yousef , the son of a Hamas co-founder and an advocate for Israel , also attended the event and made a Saturday X post writing that " Oxford Union is controlled by terrorist supporters . " <p> " Last night , I asked the participants and pro ' Palestine ' opponents during a debate at Oxford Union if they would have reported Hamas plans to authorities to prevent the October 7 massacre . 75% of the participants voted they would have chosen not to report Hamas plans to the authorities , " he wrote . <p> Additionally , journalist Emily Schrader , who attended the debate , explained in an X post that she had never seen " such appalling mob-incited , unbridled Jew-hatred being endorsed and emboldened by one of the most respected institutions in academia . " <p> " We should not need seven security guards with us to be proud of who we are . We should not have to scream over bloodthirsty lunatics to have our voices heard on a forum like the Oxford Union , " she wrote . 
@@118365012 <p> The rebels took only hours to recapture territory that Assad 's forces had spent years reclaiming . Fighter jets from Syria and its ally Russia soon began bombing the area -- killing hundreds of the rebels but civilians , too , according to a leading monitoring group . <p> " This is a very unstable situation with a huge amount of flux , " said H.A . Hellyer , a senior associate fellow at the Royal United Services Institute , a London-based think tank . <p> Some anti-Assad activists hope it could herald the crumbling of a depleted regime ; others fear the brutality of the Russia-Syrian response -- as well as the hard-line ideology of the Islamist rebels themselves . <p> It 's also unclear how this may affect the 900 or so American troops still in the region , or the remnants of the Islamic State terror group that they are there to fight and that the Pentagon has warned may be regrouping . <p> Here 's what we do know : <h> What happened ? <p> With little warning last Wednesday , a coalition of Syrian rebels launched a rapid assault that soon seized Aleppo as well as towns in the nearby Idlib and Hama provinces , according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights , a U.K.-based monitoring group . <p> The rebels are being led by the militant group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , or HTS , which grew out of a former al Qaeda affiliate called Jabhat al-Nusra and is designated as a terrorist organization by the U.S. , the United Nations and others . The State Department has a $10 million bounty for information about its leader , Abu Mohammed al-Golani . <p> However , some analysts say the group has " greatly moderated " its positions , as Robin Yassin-Kassab , author of " Burning Country : Syrians in Revolution and War , " wrote this week . " It 's still an authoritarian Islamist militia " but " has a much more positive policy towards sectarian and ethnic minorities than ISIS , " he said . <p> For these anti-Assad observers , the group presents an opportunity to topple the brutality of his regime and its Russian and Iranian benefactors . <p> But after the rebels ' offensive , Syrian and Russian fighter jets responded by launching airstrikes on the rebel-held areas , with Assad 's government claiming to have killed more than 400 of the " terrorists . " <p> Cars set on fire during battles between rebels and government forces in central Aleppo.Omar Haj Kadour / AFP - Getty Images file <p> Russia 's indiscriminate bombing , in particular , turned the tide against the rebels . It also transformed then rebel-held cities such as Aleppo and Homs into moonscapes of rubble and rebar . In all , the U.N . has documented more than 350,000 deaths but says this is " certainly an undercount . " <p> Today , however , Russia , Iran and Lebanon are distracted and depleted . <p> Russia 's primary focus is on the war in Ukraine , where it is locked in an attritional battle of trenches , tanks and mud with President Volodymyr Zelenskyy 's Washington-backed government in Kyiv . In recent years Moscow has withdrawn assets from Syria , potentially weakening Assad 's grip on power , experts say . <p> Likewise , Iran has taken a hit at the hands of Israel , which has gutted Hezbollah 's leadership and targeted its missile arsenal , while also fighting Hamas in Gaza . <p> " Iranians have also shown that their forces are stretched and perhaps not as powerful as people get them credit for , " said Hellyer , the Russia analyst who was speaking from Cairo . All of this " puts Assad in a much weaker position . " <p> But " the Syrian regime , in coordination with the Russians and less so the Iranians , will hit them with everything they 've got , " he added . <h> Washington and ISIS <p> Less clear is what role , if any , the U.S. may play . <p> As well as the American troops based in Syria , there are another 2,500 in neighboring Iraq that are part of a residual 80-country coalition to prevent ISIS from regrouping . <p> However , it 's far from certain these forces will remain there after President-elect Donald Trump takes office in January . He twice threatened to withdraw these troops during his first term . <p> But the ISIS threat has not gone away , despite the group being purged in 2017 from the vast swaths of Syria and Iraq over which it had governed . <p> In July , the Pentagon warned ISIS attacks were on track to double year-on-year . <p> If HTS were to seize the city of Deir el-Zour -- a former ISIS stronghold -- then ISIS could be freer to expand its influence across the east of the country , some analysts believe . <p> " As Assad 's regime moves resources to the northwest " to try to fight off the rebels , " ISIS will reap the rewards , filling vacuums " elsewhere , Charles Lister , director of the Syria program at the Middle East Institute , a Washington-based think tank , said in a post on X. <p> If Assad were to fall altogether , Iran may no longer be able to use Syria as a pipeline of weapons and other supplies to Hezbollah , the Council on Foreign Relations , a Washington-based think tank , said in a briefing . <p> However , any hopes for Assad 's ouster should be tempered by who or what might replace him . <p> " Much as I oppose the Assad regime , its atrocities and abuses , what is happening in Aleppo right now is terrifying . Many will die , " Chris Doyle , director of the Council for Arab-British Understanding , posted on X. " If there was a chance of a lovely peaceful outcome to the benefit of Syrians , I will be thrilled . This is unlikely . " 
@@118365014 <p> At least ? 514 civilians and military personnel have died in the latest round of fighting , according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights , a U.K.-based monitoring group . <p> The latest violence raises the specter of another front opening in the Middle East conflict , as Israel continues fighting Iran-backed Hamas in the Gaza Strip . <h> State Department calls Assad ' brutal dictator ' but says U.S. does n't support HTS terrorists <p> Abigail Williams <p> State Department spokesperson Matt Miller made it clear that the U.S. considers Hayat Tahrir al-Sham militants a terrorist group and does not support it " in any way , shape or form . " <p> Miller made the statement to reporters today after he said some commentary had been floating around social media about the U.S. position on Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , or HTS for short . He said the State Department would like to see a " political process " for de-escalation in Syria . <p> U.S. policy on Syria , however , remains unchanged with regard to Assad 's regime , he said . <p> " Assad is a brutal dictator with blood on his hands , the blood of innocent civilians in Syria , blood of his own people on his hands , " Miller said . <h> White Helmets share images from Idlib hospitals after strikes <p> The Syrian Civil Defense , known commonly as the " White Helmets , " shared a series of images today showing the wreckage of health care facilities hit in Idlib . <p> In a post on X , the group blamed Russian airstrikes for the destruction . NBC News is unable to verify the source of the strikes . <p> " Targeting hospitals and healthcare facilities protected under international humanitarian law is a war crime and a severe violation aimed at denying civilians access to medical care , " the group said . <h> U.N . secretary-general calls for end of Syria fighting <p> Abigail Williams <p> U.N . Secretary-General Ant ? nio Guterres is " alarmed " at the resurgence of violence in northwest Syria in the last week , his spokesperson said . <p> St ? phane Dujarric said at his briefing today that Guterres is calling for all of the parties in the Syrian conflict to return to the political diplomacy outlined in the 2015 U.N . Security Council resolution that created a peace process for the groups . <p> " Syrians have endured the conflict for nearly 14 years , " Dujarric said . " They deserve a political horizon that will deliver a peaceful future -- not more bloodshed . " <h> Syrian American relief group says airstrike hit one if its hospitals in Idlib <p> The Syrian American Medical Society ( SAMS ) , a global relief organization , said one of its hospitals in Idlib was hit by an airstrike today , causing structural damage . <p> The group said in a statement that an airstrike hit the entrance of its maternity hospital and the National Hospital in the city but that no casualties among staff members or patients were reported . Physicians and patients had been moved into the facilities ' basement last week in anticipation of the violence . <p> " SAMS has suspended all but essential care at nine of its medical facilities to ensure safety of its staff and patients , which is depriving thousands of healthcare , " the statement said . <p> Dr. Mufaddal Hamadeh , the president of SAMS , urged a restoration of " common decency " to prioritize humanitarian relief and said hospitals are not targets in war . <p> The entrance to the Aleppo University Hospital was hit yesterday , killing 12 civilians , the Syrian Civil Defense said . <h> Death toll in Syria rises to 514 , human rights watchdog says <p> An estimated 514 people have been killed since last week in the violence in Syria , the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said in an update today . <p> The watchdog organization is based in London and relies on a network of on-the-ground sources for its information . A breakdown of the death toll includes 217 people from Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham , the militant group fighting the Syrian government , 154 people from regime forces and allied militias and 51 members of another opposition group . <p> At least 92 civilians , including one child , have also been killed , the group said . <p> A wounded child is taken into a hospital today after a Syrian regime airstrike on a camp for displaced people in Harbanoush.Anas Alkharboutli / dpa / Getty Images <h> What 's happening in Syria ? How an old conflict in the Middle East erupted again <p> The rebels took only hours to recapture territory that Assad 's forces had spent years reclaiming . Fighter jets from Syria and its ally Russia soon began bombing the area -- killing hundreds of the rebels but civilians , too , according to a leading monitoring group . <p> " This is a very unstable situation with a huge amount of flux , " said H.A . Hellyer , a senior associate fellow at the Royal United Services Institute , a London-based think tank . <h> Erdogan says Syrian violence confirms Turkey 's ' rightness ' <p> Turkey has long warned about reignited conflict without proper resolution in Syria , and the latest events in Aleppo have proved the country 's " rightness , " President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said today . <p> " It is our greatest wish that the territorial integrity and national unity of Syria will be protected , and that the instability that has been going on for 13 years will end by consensus in line with the legitimate demands of the Syrian people , " Erdogan said on X. <p> Turkey previously supported rebel opposition against Assad 's regime and was part of the negotiations that brokered a ceasefire in 2020 . Turkish Foreign Minister Hakan Fidan blamed the recent flare-up on the Syrian government 's refusal to enter a dialogue with the opposition , which Turkey supports . <p> " Recent developments show once again that Damascus must reconcile with its own people and the legitimate opposition , " Fidan said at a news conference today . " Turkey is ready to make all the necessary contribution toward this . " <h> Russian and Iranian presidents pledge ' unconditional ' support to Assad 's government <p> Russian President Vladmir Putin and Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian spoked by phone today to discuss the ongoing situation in Syria . <p> According to a readout from the Kremlin , the two men expressed their " unconditional support " for the " legitimate " Syrian authorities . Putin has spent years publicly backing Syrian President Bashar al-Assad , whose father was president before him . <p> The Iranian state news agency FARSNA reported that Pezeshkian blamed the U.S. and Israel for the recent events . He also reportedly told Putin that Iran is ready " to cooperate with Russia in this regard . " <p> Putin agreed , emphasizing that " the real decision-makers " are those who back the Syrian rebels , according to FARSNA . <p> The latest developments in Syria " pose severe risks to civilians and have serious implications for regional and international peace and security , " the United Nations ' special envoy to the country said today . <p> " As an immediate priority , I strongly emphasize the urgent need for all to uphold their obligations under international law to protect civilians and civilian infrastructure . This is a clear message to all parties engaged in hostilities of any kind , " Geir O. Pedersen said in a statement . <p> " The Syrian parties and key international stakeholders need to be seriously engaged in meaningful and substantive negotiations to find a way out of the conflict . Without this , Syria is in danger of further division , deterioration , and destruction , " he added . <p> A former Israeli defense minister has accused his country of committing war crimes and ethnic cleansing in the Gaza Strip , in rare criticism from Israel 's own security community about military operations in the Palestinian enclave . <p> Moshe Yaalon said in an interview with the Reshet Bet radio station yesterday that the government was putting the lives of Israel Defense Forces soldiers in danger and exposing them to lawsuits at the International Criminal Court . <p> Russian airstrikes have targeted a group of health centers and hospitals in the rebel-held city of Idlib in northwest Syria , The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said today . <p> Two airstrikes struck a cluster of facilities including Idlib University Hospital , Ibn Sina Hospital , National Hospital , and the Health Directorate in Idlib city , according to the U.K.-based war monitoring group . <p> It added that Russian and Syrian warplanes had " significantly escalated " attacks on the cities of Aleppo and Idlib , " resulting in civilian casualties . " <h> Netanyahu sends condolences to the family of U.S.-Israeli soldier <p> Yarden Segev <p> Reporting from Tel Aviv <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu extended his " heartfelt condolences to the parents and family " of Omer Neutra , a U.S.-Israeli soldier who was killed during the Oct. 7 , 2023 , Hamas attack . <p> " We share in the family 's heavy grief , " Netanyahu said in a statement . " We will continue to act resolutely and tirelessly until we return all of our captives -- the living and the dead , " he added . <p> Initially believed to have been captured alive , Omer was later confirmed to have been killed that day , with his body taken into the Gaza Strip , according to the Israeli military . <p> According to the Hostages and Missing Families Forum , an advocacy group for captives and their families , Omer 's body remains in Hamas ' custody . <h> Syrian forces working to secure parts of region around Aleppo , says army <p> Ammar Cheikh Omar <p> Syrian forces are advancing in the countryside near Aleppo , Hama , and Idlib as it seeks to secure territory claimed by rebel forces , the nation 's army said today . <p> The General Command of the Army and Armed Force said in a statement that its armed forces had begun operations to " encircle the terrorists and expel them from the areas they entered . " <p> Supported by Russian forces , it said " concentrated air , missile , and artillery strikes " had destroyed five rebel command centers and seven ammunition depots in the area . <p> It also dismissed reports of rebel control in certain areas as false propaganda aimed at boosting morale among retreating fighters . <h> Eyewitness video captures explosion in busy Aleppo street <p> Peter Jeary <p> Eyewitness video released Sunday showed explosions striking a busy road in the Syrian city of Aleppo . <p> Filmed near the Aleppo University Hospital , people can be seen running across a street moments before the blasts . <h> Iran 's president reaffirmed support , Syrian leader 's office says <p> Ammar Cheikh Omar <p> Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian has reaffirmed his country 's unwavering support for Syria during a phone call with the country 's President Bashar al-Assad , a statement from Assad 's office said on Telegram today . <p> It said the two leaders discussed " regional stability and the fight against terrorism , " and that Assad blamed the recent escalation of terrorism on " Western ambitions to divide the region . " <h> Russia will ' continue to support ' Syria 's Assad , Kremlin says <p> Russia will " continue to support " Syria 's President Bashar Assad as his forces battle rebels in and around the northern city of Aleppo , Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov told reporters today . <p> Russia is analyzing the situation in Syria and " what is needed to stabilize the situation will be worked out , " Peskov said . <p> Deputy Foreign Minister Andrei Rudenko was also quoted by Russian state media as saying that he said he " can not rule out " the possibility of a meeting with Turkey and Iran to discuss a settlement in Syria . <p> Around 40 miles south of Aleppo in the Syrian city of Idlib , civil defense teams raced to rescue survivors of strikes by Syrian government forces today . <h> Soldier wounded by Israeli drone attack , Lebanese army says <p> Charlene Gubash <p> A soldier was " moderately injured " when an Israeli drone struck a bulldozer carrying out " fortification work " at a military base , Lebanon 's army said on X today . <p> The work was being carried out in the Hermel region near the country 's border with Syria , the post said . It " resulted in one soldier being moderately injured , " the post said . <h> U.S-Israeli hostage was killed on Oct. 7 , IDF says <p> Yarden Segev <p> Reporting from Tel Aviv <p> An Israeli American soldier who was thought to have been captured alive by Hamas in its Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack was killed that day and his body taken into the Gaza Strip , Israel 's military said today . <p> Capt . Omer Neutra served as a tank platoon commander after emigrating to Israel , the Israel Defense Forces said in a statement . <p> The Hostages and Missing Families Forum , an advocacy group for those held captive and their families said Omer 's body is still being held captive by Hamas . <p> Paying tribute to the 21-year-old from New York on X , Israel Katz , Israel 's defense minister , said his " life story and dedication represent the best and strongest we have built as a nation . " <h> Iraq border with Syria ' fully secured , ' interior ministry says <p> Khalid Razak <p> Reporting from Baghdad <p> Iraq 's border with Syria is " fully secured , " the country 's interior ministry said today , as fears mount that rebel push in northern Syria could spread across the region . <p> " Breaching the border is absolutely impossible , " spokesperson Brig . Mukdad Meiri told a news conference . He added that police officers had been sent to the border to support border forces and the military . <h> Death toll tops 400 as rebels clash with Syrian government forces <p> Freddie Clayton <p> At least 446 people including civilians and military personnel have been killed since Syrian rebels launched their shock offensive last week , according to The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights , a U.K.-based monitoring group . <p> The Observatory which relies on a network of on-the-ground information sources , said five children and three women were among the civilians killed by bombardment and airstrikes . <h> U.S. and others urge de-escalation ' by all parties ' in Syria <p> The U.S. and other Western governments said yesterday that they were " closely monitoring developments in Syria and urge de-escalation by all parties and the protection of civilians and infrastructure to prevent further displacement and disruption of humanitarian access . " <p> " The current escalation only underscores the urgent need for a Syrian-led political solution to the conflict , " the U.S. , French , German and British governments said in a statement . 
@@118365016 <p> A former Israeli defense minister has accused his country of committing war crimes and ethnic cleansing in the Gaza Strip , in a rare criticism from Israel 's own security community about military operations in the Palestinian enclave . <p> Moshe Yaalon said the Israeli government was putting the lives of Israel Defense Forces soldiers in danger and exposing them to lawsuits at the International Criminal Court , in an interview with the Reshet Bet radio station Sunday . <p> " I speak on behalf of commanders who serve in northern Gaza , " he said . " War crimes are being committed here . " <p> In a separate interview with Democrat TV on Saturday , he said that the Israeli government was seeking " to conquer , to annex , to carry out ethnic cleansing . " <p> Hard-liners want to re-establish Jewish settlements in Gaza , he said , including in northern areas where civilians have been urged to leave indefinitely as the Israeli military prepares to move against Hamas fighters who have regrouped . <p> " What is going on there ? There is no Beit Lahiya , no Beit Hanoun , they are operating now in Jabalia and basically cleaning the area of Arabs , " Yaalon said . <p> The IDF and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's office did not immediately respond to requests for comment . <p> Yaalon was the IDF 's chief of staff during the second intifada , or " uprising " by Palestinians against Israeli occupation , which ended in 2005 . He also served as defense minister from 2013 to 2016 , including during a 2014 war in Gaza that lasted more than six weeks and had been the longest conflict between Israel and Hamas until the current one . <p> He quit in 2016 , saying he no longer had faith in Netanyahu , and has been a fierce critic of the prime minister ever since . <p> Netanyahu 's allies were quick to condemn Yaalon 's remarks . <p> Yoav Gallant , who served as Israel 's defense minister until he was fired by Netanyahu last month , said Yaalon 's words were " a lie that helps our enemy and harms Israel . " <p> During Israel 's war against Hamas , Hezbollah and Iran , " the IDF acted in accordance with the highest standards that can be applied in the complex and difficult war that was forced upon us . The instructions and orders were always given in accordance with the law , " Gallant said in a post on X. <p> " I suggest that Yaalon not be ashamed of his security past , learn the facts , take his words back and apologize to IDF fighters , " he added . <p> Netanyahu 's Likud party , of which Yaalon is a former member , said Yaalon was spreading " slanderous lies . " <p> Yaalon 's comments came after the International Criminal Court issued arrest warrants for Netanyahu and Gallant last month over alleged crimes against humanity and war crimes in the Gaza Strip . Netanyahu 's office rejected the accusations as " absurd and false " and branded the decision " antisemitic , " while also condemning the ICC as a " biased and discriminatory political body . " <p> Israeli politicians from a range of parties have united in their opposition to the arrest warrants . <p> The Biden administration also rejects the arrest warrants but has warned of a humanitarian crisis in Gaza , where Israel has allowed little aid to enter in recent months . <p> More than 44,000 people have been killed and more than 100,000 wounded since the Israel-Hamas war began Oct. 7 , 2023 , with Hamas 's terrorist attack on Israel , according to Gaza 's Hamas-run Health Ministry . About 1,200 people were killed in that attack , while about 100 people who were taken hostage are still being held captive in Gaza more than a year later , according to Israeli tallies . Around a third of them are thought to be dead . <p> The fighting has also displaced almost all of Gaza 's population of 2 million . <p> The U.N . Human Rights Office has condemned the high number of civilian deaths in Gaza , saying in a report last month that almost 70% of the victims it verified in the six months to April 30 of this year were women and children . <p> Israel 's diplomatic mission to the U.N . in Geneva rejected the report , saying it did not reflect the reality on the ground or the role that Hamas and other terrorist groups play in deliberating causing harm to civilians in Gaza . 
@@118365713 <h> Trump warns Hamas there will be ' HELL TO PAY ' if hostages are not released before inauguration <p> President-elect Donald Trump is warning Hamas leadership that the United States 's track record of " all talk and no action " regarding the Israeli hostage crisis will end when he enters the White House . <p> The warning , released Monday via his proprietary social media site , Truth Social , laments the Israeli nationals being " held so violently , inhumanely , and against the will of the entire World , in the Middle East . " <p> " Please let this TRUTH serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " the president-elect wrote . <p> " Those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America , " he added . " RELEASE THE HOSTAGES NOW ! " <p> The statement is the most explicit threat of U.S. military action against Hamas made since the outbreak of the Israel-Hamas war . <p> Terrorists captured 251 Israeli hostages during the Oct. 7 , 2023 , terrorist attack . Approximately 63 hostages remain in Gaza . It is unknown how many of them are still alive . <p> Hamas released a propaganda video Saturday showing Israeli American dual citizen Edan Alexander , 20 , stating that he has been in captivity for 420 days . If the message conveyed in the video is true , it would mean it was recorded last week . <p> Alexander conveys under obvious duress a request for Trump to " use his influence and the full power of the United States to negotiate for our freedom . " <p> " Please do not make the mistake that Biden has been doing , " Alexander says , reading words provided by his captors . " The weapons he has sent are not killing us and the unlawful sieges are not starving us . " <p> The U.S. announced last week that it would reconvene peace talks between Israel and Hamas to negotiate an end to hostilities in Gaza . The latest round of negotiations is being overseen in cooperation with Egypt , Qatar , and Turkey . <p> Hamas leaders reportedly visited Cairo this week to speak with Egyptian officials about paths to peace , the latest in over a year of discussions that have amounted to virtually no progress . 
@@118367105 <p> NEW YORK -- President-elect Donald Trump is demanding the immediate release of the Israeli hostages still being held in Gaza , saying that if they are not freed before he is sworn into office there will be " HELL TO PAY . " <p> " Please let this TRUTH serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " Trump wrote in a post on his Truth Social site . <p> He added that , " Those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America . RELEASE THE HOSTAGES NOW ! " <p> Advertisement <p> The war in Gaza began when Hamas-led militants stormed into southern Israel , killing some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and taking around 250 people hostage on Oct. 7 , 2023 . <p> Trump 's threat came hours after the Israeli government confirmed the death of Omer Neutra , a dual U.S.-Israeli citizen , whose body is still believed to be held by Hamas in Gaza , according to the Israeli government . <p> Days earlier , Hamas released a hostage video of Edan Alexander , who was serving in the Israeli military when he was taken by Hamas to Gaza . Filmed under apparent duress , Alexander calls on Trump to work to negotiate for his freedom and that of the remaining Hamas hostages . 
@@118367517 <h> Politics latest : ' Significant shift ' as PM says UK will work to ' put Ukraine in strongest possible position for negotiations ' <p> In the wake of the Ukrainian president 's exclusive interview with Sky News , Sir Keir Starmer has said the West must " put Ukraine in the strongest possible position for negotiations so they can secure a just and lasting peace on their terms " . <p> Starmer says the UK ' ca n't look away ' from the world and must ' engage ' <p> In the final section of his speech at the Lord Mayor 's Banquet , Sir Keir Starmer says the government has " already made progress on our reset , arranging regular UK-EU Summits at leader level and a shared ambition to work more closely where necessary , including through a new security pact covering foreign affairs and defence " . <p> " This is about looking forward , not back , " he says , declaring there will be " no return to freedom of movement , no return to the customs union and no return to the single market " . <p> " Instead , we will find practical , agile ways to cooperate which serve the national interest . " <p> The PM says the UK will work " closely with everyone from Italy to Iraq on migration because we know this collaboration works in bringing the criminal gangs to justice " . <p> On the Middle East , he says : " We 'll work to maintain the peace in Lebanon , end the conflict in Gaza , bring the hostages home and increase the flow of aid to those suffering so terribly in Gaza and in other conflict zones , like Sudan . " <p> He reiterated his call for the hostages being held by Hamas to be released as well . <p> On China , Sir Keir says : " It is remarkable that until I met President Xi last month there had been no face-to-face meeting between British and Chinese leaders for six years . " <p> Concluding his speech , Sir Keir argues the UK " ca n't simply look the other way " , and must " engage " . <p> " I am determined to do that and to keep talking . Because I believe we are stronger when we do . " <p> 21:44:17 <p> ' Significant shift ' from the PM as he talks about putting Ukraine in ' strongest position for negotiations ' <p> Sir Keir Starmer has now for the first time tonight said it was British policy to " put Ukraine in the strongest possible position for negotiations " . <p> He wants Ukraine to be in a position of strength " so they can secure a just and lasting peace on their terms that guarantees their security , independence - and right to choose their own future " ( see previous post ) . <p> But make no mistake . This is a significant shift . <p> Only last month , both Sir Keir and French leader Emmanuel Macron were promising to " support Ukraine unwaveringly and for as long as necessary to thwart Russia 's war of aggression " . <p> In the summer , his predecessor Rishi Sunak stated British policy on Ukraine was based on the principle that " aggression can not and will not prevail " while also talking of a just and lasting peace , based on international law and the UN Charter . <p> If negotiations happen and settle on some kind of compromise , as they always do , Russian aggression will have prevailed to some extent at least . <p> ' For some , Starmer 's words will be overhasty ' <p> If Russia , as many seem to expect , walks away with de facto control of at least part of the chunk of Ukraine they have taken by force and win a commitment Ukraine will not join NATO for the foreseeable future , Vladimir Putin will have been vindicated at least in part . <p> His decision to wield naked , unprovoked , brutal aggression against a neighbour will have achieved some of its ends . <p> That western leaders are now talking about negotiations between Ukraine and Russia will , say critics , be a sign of their abject failure to " thwart Russian aggression " . <p> The West failed to deter Russia from invading Ukraine , hoping that the threat of " swift , punitive " financial sanctions would suffice . Then it failed to act with sufficient urgency and unity to help Ukraine repel that invasion . <p> Russia may be reaching the limit of its ability to support a war that it is undoubtedly winning , drafting in North Korean and Yemeni troops to avoid an unpopular second mobilisation of Russians . And with inflation soaring , the Russian economy is creaking . <p> But US president-elect Donald Trump seems determined to press on and expedite negotiations and other leaders , including Ukraine 's own and now Britain 's seem ready to accept their inevitability . <p> For some , Starmer 's words will be overhasty . They would prefer Europe hold the line - even if the US is about to walk away from giving Ukraine the military support it 's relied on for two years . <p> 21:42:35 <p> Starmer : We must put Ukraine ' in the strongest possible position for negotiations ' <p> The PM next turns to security , saying there is " no greater responsibility for this government " . <p> Sir Keir Starmer recalls " walking the streets of Bucha , just outside Kyiv , to bear witness to the true horror of Russia 's invasion " . <p> " I met people there who had to pick up the bodies of their friends , their family members , civilians killed - many of them handcuffed , " he says . <p> He goes on to say that Europe faces " a near and present danger with Russia as an erratic , increasingly desperate aggressor , on our continent marshalling all its resources - along with North Korean troops and Iranian missiles - aiming to kill and to conquer " . <p> " So there 's no question it 's right we support Ukraine , " he says . " But we must also be clear that it is deeply in our self-interest . " <p> Russia winning would mean Europe is " weakened " , and would allow others to " follow Putin 's example " , further destabilising the world . <p> " So we must continue to back Ukraine and do what it takes to support their self-defence for as long as it takes , " the PM says . <p> " To put Ukraine in the strongest possible position for negotiations so they can secure a just and lasting peace on their terms that guarantees their security , independence - and right to choose their own future . " <p> He also reiterates that his government will " set out a clear pathway to increase spending from 2.3% of GDP today to 2.5% " - but yet again does not hint at when that will be achieved . <p> Sir Keir goes on to say that it is " vital " for European nations to " step up to protect our shared future " . <p> More broadly , the PM says : " There is no growth without security - and no security without alliances . So to fix the foundations , we must meet this more dangerous age with an age of deeper alliances . " <p> Sir Keir 's comments come in the wake of the Ukrainian president telling Sky News exclusively that a ceasefire deal could be struck if Ukrainian territory he controls could be taken " under the NATO umbrella " - allowing him to negotiate the return of the rest later " in a diplomatic way " . <p> Next , Sir Keir Starmer says his government will " rebuild our ties " with Europe in the wake of Brexit . <p> He hits out at the Tories , saying : " I 'm sorry to say the shocking legacy this government inherited in so many areas , from the nation 's finances to the state of the NHS , extends beyond our shores . <p> " They turned their back on the world , took vital relationships for granted , neglected some allies , and spurned others . <p> " Our reputation as a trusted , stable , dependable partner was replaced too often with an image of disarray governed by short term political concerns , veering from one extreme to another . " <p> He points to the Tories rolling back climate measures , our relations with China , what was seen on the world stage about " our commitment to fundamental values like the rule of law " , and " demonising international courts which this country helped to create as ' foreign ' . " <p> He accuses the Tories of having " actively harmed the national interest " . <p> " In a more competitive and dangerous world , we ca n't take anything for granted , " the PM says . <p> " We need to work even harder at staying ahead . That 's what the British people deserve - and it 's what they expect of this government . " <p> But he says there is " still a huge amount of goodwill towards the UK around the world " , and people " want to work with us " . <p> " We have been welcomed back with open arms , " he says , adding that the UK has " an opportunity now to capitalise on this progress " . <p> 21:32:09 <p> Starmer : ' That somehow we 're with either America or Europe is plain wrong - I reject it utterly ' <p> Sir Keir Starmer opens his speech by saying that international politics is now local like " never before " . <p> " Geopolitics is on our doorstep , shaping our lives in ways nobody asked for , " he says . " Conflicts overseas undermine our security , stir up violence and extremism on our streets and drive up the cost of living . <p> " It all manifests in a feeling among many that the system is n't working for them . That it 's time to take back control of our lives , our borders , our livelihoods . " <p> The prime minister says the public wants " action " and " change " , pledging to " answer them " by " acting at home , absolutely , and also by using our strength abroad " . <p> He recalls the government of another Labour PM - that of Clement Attlee 's in 1945 , which he says had " unmatched " ambition - pointing to creating the NHS , building homes , national parks , and also " NATO - the greatest alliance in history " . <p> The message the PM wants to deliver here is this : " Against the backdrop of these dangerous times , the idea that we must choose between our allies . <p> " That somehow we 're with either America or Europe is plain wrong . I reject it utterly . <p> " Attlee did not choose between allies . Churchill did not choose . The national interest demands that we work with both . " <p> As the second Trump presidency looms , the PM continues : " Our relationship with the United States has been the cornerstone of our security and our prosperity for over a century . <p> " We will never turn away from that . We call it the special relationship for a reason . It is written not in some dry , dusty treaty , but in the ink of shared sacrifice . " <p> This position is " about hard-headed realism " , he says , insisting that a close relationship with the US shared both mutual interests , and national security . <p> " That 's why , when President Trump graciously hosted me for dinner in Trump Tower , I told him that we will invest more deeply than ever in this transatlantic bond with our American friends in the years to come . " <p> 21:23:53 <p> Watch live : PM giving foreign policy speech <p> Sir Keir Starmer is having his first go at the annual prime ministerial speech at the Lord Mayor 's Banquet in central London . <p> The traditional address focuses on foreign policy - so there 's certainly plenty for him to go at . <p> You can watch live in the stream above or below , and we 'll bring you updates too . <p> 20:37:34 <p> In pictures : Starmer arrives at Lord Mayor 's Banquet <p> Sir Keir Starmer is not spending his evening relaxing at home with his family - he 's a posh do in Central London . <p> The PM is attending the Lord Mayor 's Banquet , where he will deliver a speech , expected to focus on foreign policy . <p> We will bring that to you live on Sky News when it happens , so do stay tuned here in the Politics Hub . <p> 20:05:22 <p> Will departed transport secretary get severance pay ? <p> Friday morning saw the sudden resignation of Louise Haigh as transport secretary - the first cabinet departure of the Starmer government . <p> It came after Sky News reported she had pleaded guilty to a criminal offence related to incorrectly telling police a work mobile phone had been stolen back in 2013 . <p> ' Up to her ' <p> After just under five months in the job , Downing Street was asked today whether she was eligible for severance pay . <p> The PM 's official spokesperson pointed to long-standing rules that ministers under 65 are entitled to a payment worth a quarter of their annual salary if they do n't get a new role within three weeks . <p> Whether Ms Haigh would claim the payment is " up to her " , they added . <p> In opposition , Labour had called for a change in the rules after ousted prime ministers Boris Johnson and Liz Truss got ? 18,660 from their respective resignations , while Kwasi Kwarteng got ? 16,876 for quitting less than six weeks into his chancellor gig . <p> This content is provided by , which may be using cookies and other technologies . To show you this content , we need your permission to use cookies . You can use the buttons below to amend your preferences to enable cookies or to allow those cookies just once . You can change your settings at any time via the Privacy Options . Unfortunately we have been unable to verify if you have consented to cookies . To view this content you can use the button below to allow cookies for this session only . 
@@118378300 <p> Israeli politicians reacted on Monday to the IDF 's confirmation that Capt . Omer Neutra was killed on October 7 of last year , and that Hamas took his body to the Gaza Strip . <p> " Our hearts are with the Neutra family this morning , who , after more than a year of a determined , traumatic , and worldwide struggle , received the devastating news confirming the death of their beloved son , " President Isaac Herzog wrote in a post on X/Twitter . <p> Our hearts are with the Neutra family this morning , who , after more than a year of a determined , traumatic , and worldwide struggle , received the devastating news confirming the death of their beloved son , Captain Omer Maxim Neutra , who fell on October 7th , and his body abducted ... <p> " Over the past year , we had the privilege of meeting his parents , Ronen and Orna , and his brother Daniel -- a strong family with extraordinary resilience who have dedicated their lives since October 7 to doing everything in their power to bring Omer home , " Herzog continued . <p> " We must fulfill the ultimate imperative , " the president emphasized , " to return Omer , and all our abducted men and women - the living to their families , and the fallen and murdered to be laid to rest . <p> Defense Minister Israel Katz extended his condolences to Neutra 's family in a post on X. <p> " Omer 's life story and dedication represent the best and strongest qualities within us as a people , " Katz wrote . <p> " A warrior who bravely stood his ground in battle , " he noted , " sacrificing his life for the security of the State of Israel against our fiercest enemies . " 
@@118378303 <p> Created by a visionary cadre of Arab leaders and aided by the signing of the Document on Human Fraternity for World Peace and Living Together in 2019 and the Abraham Accords in 2020 , The Project has ushered in a new era of amity , unity and mutual respect in the United Arab Emirates . <p> In a region of the world marked by religious strife and violence , the UAE 's diverse , primarily expat citizenry of approximately 11 million coexists in a state of enviable harmony . Perhaps the most compelling feature of The Project has been the emergence -- over the past 20 years -- of a visible and cohesive Jewish community , complete with a synagogue , religious school , and kosher restaurants , all with the blessing of His Highness , Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan , the UAE 's president . <p> " What exists in the UAE is a project of the future , in essence , a future where human beings put their energy into development , technological progress , cultural exchange , innovation , and building rather than hatred and violence , " Ross Kriel , one of the leaders of the local Jewish community , told The Media Line . <p> An insider , Kriel has been conducting business in the Emirates since 2008 and moved to Dubai with his family in 2013 . Speaking of The Project in the UAE , he said , " It is a future where Jews and Muslims do n't consider their religious differences to be an impediment . Where , in general , our religious identities and commitments ... help in sensing a shared human desire for transcendence and personal refinement . " Illustrative image of Chabad emissary to the United Arab Emirates , Rabbi Zvi Kogan ( credit : Canva , REUTERS/CHRISTOPHER PIKE , SECTION 27A COPYRIGHT ACT ) <h> Israeli tourists visit the UAE <p> Kriel is not alone in his enthusiasm for life in the UAE . Between 2020 and 2023 , over one million Israelis visited . Though the UAE 's Jewish community is often cited as comprising 500 members , other sources put the true estimate at closer to 3,000 . While the majority of Jews in the Emirates live in Dubai , Abu Dhabi is also a hub . In 2023 , 1,000 Israeli businesses were operating in the UAE , according to the Dubai International Chamber . <p> So remarkable was the existence of a thriving local Jewish community in this region that a visiting filmmaker was moved to document an implausible-sounding story : In 2019 -- the year before the signing of the Abraham Accords -- local Jews commissioned the writing of a Torah scroll and presented it as a gesture of thanks to His Highness . This story formed the central plot of the 2021 film , Amen , Amen , Amen , which has been screened around the world . <p> " Our film showed a phenomenon of religious tolerance in the Middle East that was unknown a few years ago and was a counter to the dominant narrative of religious violence , " Tom Gallagher , the film 's director , told The Media Line . <p> Furthering the UAE 's mission of interfaith co-existence , in March 2023 , a complex called the Abrahamic Family House opened on Saadiyat Island in Abu Dhabi , quickly garnering recognition from Time Magazine as " one of the world 's greatest places . " An architectural marvel , it boasts three houses of worship : Eminence Ahmed El-Tayeb Mosque , St. Francis Church , and Moses Ben Maimon Synagogue . <p> Rabbi Yehuda Sarna is the senior religious adviser of the synagogue at the Abrahamic Family House and the former chief rabbi of the Jewish Council of the Emirates . " The establishment of a Jewish community in the UAE has created a new center of gravity in the global Jewish map . Thousands of Jews reside in the UAE with a high level of trust in the leadership . Hundreds of thousands of Jews , if not millions , have visited over the past few years , " he told The Media Line . <p> The Project hit its first serious roadblock in late November with the kidnapping and murder of 28-year-old Rabbi Zvi Kogan , a Chabad emissary . The brutal event sent shockwaves around the world , far beyond the confines of the local Jewish community . In the days following , condemnations from the Emirati government came swiftly , together with the arrest of three suspects . <p> In a jointly written opinion piece , the Anti-Defamation League 's CEO and national director , Jonathan Greenblatt , and Ali Rashid al-Nuami , chairman of both the Manara Center for Coexistence and Dialogue and the Defense Affairs , Interior and Foreign Affairs Committee of the UAE Federal National Council , mourned this hate crime and emphasized the UAE 's commitment to peace . <p> The headline stated : " Those who murdered Rabbi Kogan have already failed . Together , we declare : Terror has failed , peace will prevail . The UAE will continue to be a lighthouse of hope in the region . " <p> But even as the UAE rushes to condemn the violence and reaffirm its core principles of religious tolerance , respect , and peaceful coexistence , sources report that the local Jewish community is feeling shaken . <p> The day after the body of Rabbi Kogan was discovered , The Media Line spoke -- on condition of anonymity -- with a New York-based Jewish businessman who has maintained a longstanding relationship with the UAE . He takes a nuanced approach at this phase of The Project , having noted cooling friendships towards Jews after October 7 , 2023 . <p> " In the Emirates , the leadership is very ahead of the crowd , bold . ... They said , ' We 'll build a different future , one that is more inclusive . ' The population understood this , but after 10/7 , as very , very difficult , harsh circumstances in Gaza and Lebanon emerged , the ( local ) population has expressed great sympathy for Palestinians being devastated by the brutal war , " he told The Media Line . <p> No one should be surprised by their allegiance to the Palestinian cause , he said . " The population of the UAE includes 150 different nationalities . The entirety of the Middle East is represented there . Schools can not all be in sync with the message of tolerance when there is agitation at home . " <p> Tensions over Israel 's war in Gaza permeate the business realm as well . Since October 7 , 2023 , there has been a dampening of enthusiasm in the UAE about pursuing business relationships with Israel . While " business as usual " is still the motto , it is now being conducted beneath a cloak of silence . <h> Security concerns <p> Since October 7 , and especially now after the rabbi 's murder , the American businessman 's concerns for the security of Jews in the UAE have grown . Troubling comments have been made to colleagues at work and to Jewish children who attend local schools , he said . <p> " There is the sense that the love affair is over , the glow has been dimmed . Nobody should be shocked by that , " he added . <p> This has profoundly affected Jews ' daily lives there . After October 7 , there were additional security concerns that forced the local Jewish community to stop all daily prayer services except for those in Abu Dhabi . " After 10/7 , for principal reasons , they kept the Abrahamic Family house operational , because they can secure that , but they also do n't want people hosting haphazard prayer services , " the businessman said . The leadership knows there is an agitated population , he added . That is a brand-new reality . <p> When asked whether he has been affected by the sea change in the Emirates , he shrugged and said : " I am not living there . I arrive and go in and out of meetings . " <p> Others living and working in the region are unconcerned . For Kriel , the tragedy of Rabbi Kogan 's murder is personal , but not a threat to Jews in the UAE . <p> " What is the fallout ? " he asked . " It 's a personal tragedy for the Kogan family in particular and for community members as well . Rabbi Kogan was somebody that we interacted with on a personal basis ; a lovely human being . People are very upset , but my fundamental conviction is that the community will remain on its current course , patiently building Jewish life in the UAE , something that all of us are very passionate about . " <p> Although the intent of the murder might have been to undermine The Project , Kriel hopes that " it will have the opposite effect , motivate us to build this project , " he said . <p> Similarly , Gallagher , the filmmaker , remains confident that the upward trajectory of tolerance in the UAE will continue . " Ten or 15 years ago when the Jewish community in the UAE was still tiny and struggling to find its place , a terrible incident like this one might have stifled that growth , " he said . The fact that the Jewish community there is now so " strong and proud and embedded into the fabric of Emirati society , I do n't see them as being intimidated at all . " <p> " This was an awful and sobering incident , but the Jews there also know how rare such violence is in the UAE , and that vigilance and protection will be redoubled , " he added . <p> Rabbi Sarna , who also serves as a chaplain at New York University , which has seen its share of verbal violence and protests over the past year , is similarly reassured by the UAE 's staunch leadership and zero-tolerance approach to violence . <p> " The establishment of a Jewish community in the UAE has created a new center of gravity in the global Jewish map . While we are enduring the pain of Zvi 's death , we are reassured by the rapid apprehension of the culprits and are recommitting ourselves to the original and historic journey of building Jewish life in this country , " he said . <p> The American businessman shared a forecast that includes the possibility of hope . " The real significance of the murder will be known only in the weeks ahead , " he said , adding that the Jews who live in the UAE are committed to living there . <p> " Some are transients , some old timers and new people have moved in since 10/7 . " But they are there , he said , " because they believe in the message coming from the leadership , which he thinks is " 100% sincere . " <p> An inclusive , tolerant , anti-extremist modern society is " the DNA of the Emirates , " he added . This mandate comes directly from Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed , the UAE president . <p> " This is his message to his nation . The UAE fights extremism and they believe in creating an open society with respect , stability , and safety for their citizens , " he asserted . <p> Two weeks after the murder of Rabbi Kogan , observers of The Project are wrestling with its legacy . " Obviously , safety is something that we are always considering . That being said , we 're focused on building back stronger , " Rabbi Motti Seligson , director of media relations at Chabad-Lubavitch , told The Media Line . <p> " This is what Rabbi Kogan dedicated his life to -- helping others materially as well as spiritually and expanding and building Jewish life in the Emirates . " <p> The exhilaration of participating in The Project will help the Emirati Jewish community transcend this difficult moment , stated Kriel . " Most of us early pioneers , who came to Dubai 10 and 15 years ago , feel very passionate about how our community fits into the patchwork of religions and ethnicities . It is exciting to be here , engaging in a project of such hopefulness , " he said . <p> Gallagher , the filmmaker , frames the situation this way : " The birth of the Jewish community in the UAE was a miracle in the desert , and no one wants to see that miracle die . " 
@@118378313 <h> " We see you , " Biden said to hostage families in a statement confirming American citizen Omer Neutra 's death . <p> US PRESIDENT Joe Biden speaks during a dinner with US service members and their families ahead of Thanksgiving in New York. ( photo credit : Nathan Howard/Reuters ) <p> US President Joe Biden said on Monday that he is grieving with the Neutra family , just hours after the IDF confirmed that Omer Neutra , a 21-year-old from New York , was killed on October 7 and was taken to Gaza , where his corpse has been held hostage by Hamas since then . <p> " Our hearts are heavy today , " Biden said in a statement from the White House . " Jill and I are devastated and outraged to learn of the death of Omer Neutra , an American citizen , whose body Hamas has apparently been holding since they killed him during their brutal terrorist attack on October 7 . " <p> Neutra was abducted to the Gaza Strip on October 7 along with members of his tank crew . <p> Biden wrote that he once again met Omer 's parents , Orna and Ronen , during a meeting at the White House last month with the other family members of American hostages . Ronen and Orna Neutra , parents of Israeli-American hostage Omer Neutra. ( credit : LUKE TRESS ) <h> Pain beyond belief <p> The Neutras shared with the president the " pain they 've endured as they prayed for the safe return of their son -- pain no parent should ever know . " <p> " They told me how Omer 's grandparents were Holocaust survivors and how their family 's strength and resilience has been carried through the generations , " Biden said . " During this dark hour -- as our nation joins Omer 's parents , brother , and family in grieving this tragic loss -- we pray to find strength and resilience . <p> To the families of remaining hostages , Biden said , " We see you . We are with you . And I will not stop working to bring your loved ones back home where they belong . " <p> President Isaac Herzog wrote in a post on X/Twitter , " Our hearts are with the Neutra family this morning , who , after more than a year of a determined , traumatic , and worldwide struggle , received the devastating news confirming the death of their beloved son . <p> " Over the past year , we had the privilege of meeting his parents , Ronen and Orna , and his brother , Daniel -- a strong family with extraordinary resilience who have dedicated their lives since October 7 to doing everything in their power to bring Omer home , " Herzog continued . <p> " We must fulfill the ultimate imperative , " the president emphasized , " to return Omer and all our abducted men and women -- the living to their families , and the fallen and murdered to be laid to rest . <p> Defense Minister Israel Katz extended his condolences to Neutra 's family in a post on X. <p> " Omer 's life story and dedication represent the best and strongest qualities within us as a people , " Katz wrote . <p> " A warrior who bravely stood his ground in battle , " he noted , " sacrificing his life for the security of the State of Israel against our fiercest enemies . " <p> " Bringing the hostages home is our most critical mission , and we will do everything to achieve it . " <p> Opposition head Yair Lapid expressed his condolences in a post on X , writing , " Every passing day time is running out . We must do everything to bring everyone home now . " <p> Garin Tzabar , an organization that helps and follows Diaspora Jews who draft to the IDF , said , " We are heartbroken ... Omer was a cherished member of our Garin Tzabar family , and his bravery and sacrifice will never be forgotten . We will continue to demand that Omer is brought home to be laid to rest in the land he fought to defend . Our thoughts and prayers are with his family , friends , and loved ones during this unimaginable time . 
@@118378316 <h> Protesters raise Nazi , terrorist salutes at London protest march <h> The Metropolitan Police appealed to the public for their aid in the identification of a man who raised a Nazi salute . <p> A pro-Palestinian demonstration passes in front of one held by supporters of Israel in London , Britain November 30 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/YANN TESSIER ) <p> Anti-Israel protesters raised Nazi and terrorist salutes at a Pro-Palestinian march and Pro-Israel counter-protest in London , according to statements by Stop The Hate UK and the Metropolitan Police . <p> The Met appealed to the public on Sunday for their aid in the identification of an elderly man " in connection with an alleged public order offense , " confirming to STH on social media that the investigation was related to a video of the suspect raising his arm in a Nazi salute in the direction of counter-protesters . <p> STH on Sunday published footage on X/Twitter of another anti-Israel marcher who appeared to shout " Heil Hitler " and raise a Nazi salute and then a middle finger in the direction of pro-Israel counter-protesters . <p> " When we tell you these are hate marches , when we tell you that British Jews are frightened to enter central London when they come to town -- this is why , " STH wrote on social media on Saturday . " A Nazi salute in full view of officers and directed at Jews . How many more instances like this do Jewish Londoners have to endure before you do something to stop these hate marches ? " <p> Hi @metpoliceuk we posted the footage of this man giving a Nazi salute at yesterday 's hate march . Thank you for launching this appeal.We just thought you might like this footage too - it 's of another man doing a Nazi salute at Jews at the same hate march.So , that 's two Nazi ... https : **39;2241;TOOLONG ... The Met issues warnings <p> STH also condemned the presence of red inverted triangles in protest materials and the hand gesture counterparts raised by activists . The NGO charged that the Met understood the meaning of the inverted red triangle , a terrorist symbol used in Hamas propaganda videos to indicate the targeting of their enemies , but had ignored their use at the protest . <p> Ahead of the protest , the Met had issued warnings that it was a criminal offense to express support for proscribed organizations like Hamas and Hezbollah through chanting , garb , flags , signs , or logos . <p> The Met had also issued conditions for the protest and counter-protest , limiting them to set routes and locations so that they would not impact the busy Black Friday shopping period or enter into conflict . The Met said on social media that the Palestine Solidarity Campaign march had passed the STH protest without incident . <p> " Ahead of the weekend , we have been in regular discussions with the PSC , counter-protesters Stop the Hate , as well as faith and community groups -- particularly the Jewish community who we know continue to be impacted by protests -- residents , and businesses , " Deputy Assistant Commissioner Jon <p> The PSC said on Instagram that tens of thousands had participated in the national demonstration aimed at ending what they see as complicity by the British government , businesses , and institutions with a supposed genocide in Gaza . <p> Trade unionist Andrew Murray spoke to attendees , according to co-organizer Stop the War Coalition , calling for Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to be held responsible for the deaths of Gazan civilians . <p> " Whether it is tomorrow , next week , next year , or ten years ' time , Netanyahu and his gang of criminals will be held to account for this slaughter ! " said Murray . 
@@118378318 <h> Since Oct. 7 , it 's become almost trendy to oust Israeli artists . Recognizing that , Azout 's work gradually became intertwined with an existential purpose . <p> By JENNA ROMANO DECEMBER 2 , 2024 03:40 <p> MICHELLE AZOUT ( photo credit : Carlos Aristizabal ) <p> Earlier this year , Michelle Azout , a Miami-based art adviser , received an encrypted text message from a colleague , Israeli painter Guy Yanai . It read , " You 're in good company " and included a screenshot -- but Azout had no idea what Yanai was referring to . <p> For a moment , Azout thought it was a good thing . " I expected something good , like a mention in an article . " But to her dismay , the text reopened a new wound -- one that she 's getting used to as a supporter of Israel and a professional in the international art world . " When I opened it , it was a punch to the stomach , " says Azout . " I found a screenshot of an iPhone note titled ' Zionists in the Arts . ' This was evidently a blacklist created by a group of New York and Los Angeles artists in an Instagram chatroom in order to launch a boycott of arts professionals perceived as supporters of Israel , " she explains . <p> " Amid a slew of names ranging from owners of blue-chip galleries to artists , curators , and journalists ( all but one of them Jewish ) , I was shocked to see my name . " <p> The goal of the blacklist , according to the screenshots , was to take the " power " back from the " Zionists , " stop them from " manipulating " the art market and from having so much " control " over the artists ' careers . Visitors view Homeland ( credit : Zina Perlman ) <p> " The creators wrote of how infuriating it was to be ' silenced and bullied by the Zionists ' and how by building , maintaining , and adding to the list , they would be able to ' take money out of these Zionists ' pockets , ' " Azout describes . <p> " More shocking , many of the artists that participated in the creation of this list are represented by major New York and Los Angeles galleries . " <p> The letter on the well-respected art publication stated its intent was to show " support for Palestinian liberation and call for an end to the killing and harming of all civilians , an immediate ceasefire , the passage of humanitarian aid into Gaza , and the end of the complicity of our governing bodies in grave human rights violations and war crimes . " <p> It goes on to rebuke Israel and Zionism for its " war crimes , " with no mention of the heinous attack that had just occurred . <p> " Many art professionals have been vocal about pro-Palestinian support , attempting to oust Israeli artists not only from galleries but from conversations around it , too , " says Azout . <p> " While seeing my name on the list immediately produced a visceral reaction , I was not completely surprised . Ever since Oct.7. , I have been very vocal ( on and off line ) about my support for Israel and my concern for the hostages in Gaza . " <p> For the art adviser , it 's not only a disappointment because of the palpable tension felt personally and professionally -- in principle , it 's antithetical to her democratized philosophy when it comes to sharing art . <p> Her goal as an art adviser is creating bridges , and she sees art as a means for sharing ideas and values , cherishing the opportunity to have real conversations about important world topics . <p> How is it possible for Israelis to have a voice when they 're being so vigorously silenced ? <p> " These are the individuals who have real-life experience in the region and can offer different perspectives on Israeli culture , " says Azout . <p> As Azout found herself reckoning with a cultural war in the art world , she reflected even more on her deep-rooted connection to Zionism . " The resilience of Israeli people to keep going forward is very admirable , " she says . <p> " I decided to stay on my course , put blinders on , and do good where I can instead of trying to battle others . The way I see it , the closer we can get to people living in Israel , the better we can develop these relationships , collaborations , and dialogue . We live in a globalized world , and there 's so much potential to connect and communicate . " <h> Enter : The ' Homeland ' exhibition <p> Recognizing that , more than ever there was a more important need to support Israeli art , Azout 's work gradually became intertwined with an existential purpose . <p> Instead of losing her professional ground , she pivoted -- this time , with her eyes on the Israeli art world . Azout has been an avid collector of Israeli artwork herself , but it was at this moment that she decided , as an art adviser in Miami , to bring it deeper into her advisory practice . <p> Her recent undertaking , an exhibition titled " Homeland , " is evidence of that in a big , culminating way . <p> The show , which ran from November 14-17 in Miami , had three main goals : to support Israeli artists financially ( and emotionally ) ; to foster a renaissance of Zionism by bringing Israeli artworks to Miami ; and to battle anti-Zionism and antisemitism . <p> Featuring more than 120 works -- all by Israeli artists -- " Homeland " was a huge success on all these fronts . That 's thanks to Azout dedicating over six months to its production , alongside a passionate team of community members , volunteers , and sponsors . <p> " I started working on the concept for the show before the blacklist came out ; but for me , it was a sort of poetic justice to persevere once that happened , " Azout explains . <p> For Azout , who had never curated an exhibition before , it all started with supporting one particular Israeli artist , Esther Cohen . <p> " I bought a work by Cohen for my birthday . She is an Israeli artist I admire , and I told her how much I love this piece and that so many people have commented on it , " she recalls . <p> " She shared with me what a hard time she was having both mentally and economically . To be an artist during a wartime economy was debilitating and not sustainable . She and I kept in touch , and an idea started to brew in the back of my mind : an exhibition to celebrate Israeli artists . " <p> Azout started working on the concept -- planning , fundraising , and building a support team . At the time , she envisioned her exhibition as a modest show featuring around 15 works . She assumed it would be impactful , but modest , and held in a small gallery space . But when man -- even the meticulous Azout -- plans , God laughs . <p> " A colleague who wanted to be involved said she had the perfect space , which was essentially a large warehouse . " <p> Azout knew this was a great opportunity -- bigger than her initial dream but perfect for the potential of the show . Of course , that presented her with a curatorial challenge . " Everything I did for the show had to be high quality , and when I saw the space , I knew what it would take to fill that room . I knew it would need to be around 100 artworks . " <p> Azout did n't stop the momentum , she embraced it . And one of the most heartwarming parts of this story is that she was n't alone . This was a chance to leverage a concrete sense of support from her colleagues around the world , which is natural for an adept networker like Azout . <p> " In planning the exhibition , I reconnected with artists whom I had worked with in the past , and I developed new relationships with artists that I only met due to the war , " she says . <p> She pulled all her resources , reaching out to Israeli artists in her network and gaining support from local professionals in the Israeli art scene . <p> For example , Sarah Peguine and Michal Freedman , founders of Art Source , an online platform for promoting and collecting Israeli art , became one significant source for connecting Azout with new participants . <h> This month , ' Homeland ' was presented to Miami <p> The exhibition is a visual homage to the Land of Israel through a wide range of media , such as painting , prints , photography , digital art , sculpture , and textiles . <p> Not only did " Homeland " bring together over 40 contemporary and historic Israeli artists , it also offered a profound exploration of their relationship to the land -- a topic that reflects multifaceted realities and perspectives but is nearly void in conversations happening in the international art world today . <p> Curating an exhibition that would facilitate a strong dialogue with the Miami community was important to Azout . <p> " I 'm for art that people can understand , and I like breaking boundaries , " she says . " We wanted the show to have a very focused curatorial lens . That lens was going to be the landscape of Israel , but we wanted to push boundaries of what a landscape could look like . " <p> The works exhibited in " Homeland " explore the landscape of Israel in all its contrasts , spanning multiple generations : ancient and modern , urban and rural , desert , and sea . <p> Visitors encountered works by Miriam Cabessa , who won the Israeli Culture Ministry 's Lifetime Achievement Award ; collaborative pieces by the dynamic duo Nitzan Mintz and Dede Bandaid , known for their distinctive street art ; as well as rising stars of the Israeli art scene , such as Hagai Farago , Iris Cintra , and Ronen Tanchum . <p> Complementing contemporary works were pieces by renowned historic artists , such as Menashe Kadishman , Liliane Klapisch , and Rudi Weissenstein . Each participating artist has played a pivotal role in shaping Israel 's artistic identity -- today and over previous decades . <p> From a numbers perspective , the show was an astounding success . In the end , Azout had no problem filling the walls or the halls of her venue . Hundreds of people , many from Azout 's diverse South Florida community , showed up to support the show on its opening night . <p> Between a discrete online pre-sale and three days of the show , over half of the artworks on display sold by the end of the exhibition . <p> " Commercially , we 're very happy with that , " says Azout . " I think it was a great surprise to see people 's enthusiasm sales-wise . It was successful , and we 're still selling work online . " <p> " Homeland , " of course , showed its support for Israeli artists in more ways than sales . <p> Hagai Farago , a printmaker in Tel Aviv , sheds light on the importance of an exhibition like this being organized abroad , saying that " taking part in the ' Homeland ' exhibition is a much-needed source of optimism in today 's bleak climate . <p> " When numerous voices act to delegitimize Israeli artists instead of seeking the dialogue and cure that can be found in art , this initiative truly sets new foundations for the exchange of experiences and sentiments , " he says . " And it might be , after all , a very Jewish thing : fostering new collaborations and finding true allies , even in the most challenging of times . " <p> It was an equally important and unifying event for the community in Miami , too . " I think the impact on our community was remarkable , " Azout reflects . " We brought together a group of individuals from different parts of the Miami community -- older , younger , religious , secular , Jewish , not Jewish . The crowd was large and diverse . " <p> At a time when we 're caught in endlessly depressing new cycles and social media feeds full of depressing images of Israel , what a bold and poignant idea to ( in Azout 's words ) foster a renaissance in the dialogue surrounding Zionism . " This exhibition reflects the powerful role that art plays in expressing our shared values -- rooted in history , but ever-evolving with contemporary voices . " <p> As we wrapped up our conversation in the days following the finale of " Homeland , " Azout expressed excitement over receiving photos from a couple who had purchased works from the show . <p> She was impressed that in less than 24 hours after picking up their new Israeli art , they already had it framed and hung on the wall . And I must admit , I myself got chills thinking about the 65+ Israeli artworks that were about to be displayed in their new homes . <p> A lot of people ( myself included ) are asking Azout what will come next in this chapter of her career . Many are already inquiring about her next Israeli art exhibition abroad or wondering if " Homeland " itself will travel . She does n't have those answers just yet . <p> But when she and I shared a smile over a collector hanging on his wall his very first artwork made in Israel , about Israel , by an Israeli artist , I thought : " What comes next is the new life cycle of this artwork -- the people who will see it , the questions that will be raised , the conversations that will be had . " In a big way , what comes next is new encounters with the Land of Israel . <p> " It 's been the honor of my career to work on this project and to be the gatekeeper and facilitator of this , " Azout tells me before we part . " I think it 's really unique to work on something that has to do with your profession but also your life . <p> " We are a global community , and it was very special to be able to be the engine behind pushing all of it and have a synergy between people in Israel and the community in the Diaspora . " <p> While " Homeland " closed on November 17 , sales continue online through its website until the end of December . www.homelandartshow.com 
@@118378319 <h> The November 9 incident , which gained international attention after the victim spoke to the Irish Times on Saturday , is being investigated by the Gardai . <p> Gardai ( Police ) block the road beside the Israeli embassy as demonstrators rally during a " Stand with Palestine " march in solidarity with Gaza , in Dublin , Ireland , October 14 , 2023. ( photo credit : CLODAGH KILCOYNE/REUTERS ) <p> An American student was beaten in a Dublin nightclub at the beginning of the month , targeted because he was Jewish , according to Irish Chief Rabbi Yoni Wieder and Jewish Representative Council of Ireland chair Maurice Cohen . <p> The November 9 incident , which gained international attention after the victim spoke to The Irish Times on Saturday , is being investigated by the Gardai , the national police . <p> Cohen said in a November 12 statement that the victim had been asked if he was Jewish before he was assaulted . The student told the Times that he had been wearing a Star of David necklace at the time of the encounter . Wieder told The Jerusalem Post that three men assaulted the Jewish student when he was alone in the club 's bathroom . <p> The student suffered a concussion from the assault , according to the Times , and when the Gardai were speaking to witnesses , a person who was not a party to the attack declared that " the Jews in Amsterdam -- they got what they deserved . " On November 7 , rioters violently targeted Israelis and Dutch Jews after a soccer match , leading to several injuries . <p> Cohen called on the Irish government and police to bring the perpetrators to justice " and to address the disturbing trend of antisemitism that endangers our community and violates Ireland 's core values . " <p> The Gardai said they were investigating the " hate-related motivation " and assigned a diversity liaison officer to the victim . People hold placards and flags during a demonstration in solidarity with Palestinians in Gaza , ahead of the October 7 attack anniversary , amid the Israel-Hamas conflict , in Dublin , Ireland October 5 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/CLODAGH KILCOYNE ) <h> Rising antisemitism in Ireland <p> Wieder said that while the " brutal , cowardly assault " was " appalling and deeply disturbing " it was not surprising due to increasingly charged rhetoric in the country . <p> " For months we have been warning that the inflammatory -- and on occasion overtly antisemitic -- rhetoric in Ireland has made many members of the Jewish community here feel unsafe and that it could lead to violence , " said Wieder . " It is hard to understate the extent to which Israel features in Irish public discourse . For over a year , politicians and the mainstream media have demonized Israel on a near-daily basis . <p> " Some politicians like to stress that it is not antisemitic to be critical of Israel or to challenge the actions of the IDF , and this is certainly true . But the anti-Israel narrative in Ireland has become so hateful , and so full of disinformation and distortion , that it creates a context in which antisemitism has surged . " <p> Cohen warned that the attack marked a " dangerous turning point " after a period of intense one-sided public discourse and noted that the incident occurred on the anniversary of Kristallnacht -- a pogrom in Nazi Germany in which Jews were murdered and their synagogues and shops damaged and destroyed . <p> " It is profoundly distressing to see such an abhorrent act happen here in Ireland , a country that has long championed tolerance , inclusion , and respect , " said Cohen . <p> " Ireland and Europe must not fail their citizens . History taught us that words matter , and silence or inaction in the face of hatred only emboldens those who spread it . We call upon all in Ireland to stand in solidarity with the Jewish community , to reject hatred in all its forms , and to reaffirm Ireland 's commitment to safeguarding the lives and rights of all its people . " 
@@118380601 <h> Israeli American soldier thought to have been taken hostage now presumed dead , IDF says <h> Omer Neutra , a 21-year-old New York native , was killed in battle , Israel 's defense minister said <h> By Freddie Clayton and Yarden Segev NBC News *Published December 2 , 2024*Updated on December 2 , 2024 at 7:06 am <p> Family Handout <p> An Israeli American soldier who was thought to have been captured alive by Hamas during the Oct. 7 , 2023 , terror attack was actually killed that day and his body taken into the Gaza Strip , Israel 's military said Monday . <p> Omer Neutra , a 21-year-old New York native , who served as a tank platoon commander after emigrating to Israel , was killed in battle , Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz said on X , as he paid tribute . <p> " Omer 's life story and dedication represent the best and strongest we have built as a nation , " he said in a post on X. He added that Neutra was killed in battle in Nir Oz , a kibbutz less than 2 miles from the fenced-off border with Gaza and one of the areas hit hardest when Hamas militants stormed through southern Israel . <p> However , the military did not say how it came to the conclusion over Neutra 's death . It added that he had been posthumously promoted to the rank of captain . <p> Around 250 people were taken hostage during Hamas ' terror attacks on Oct. 7 , 2023 , that also saw 1,200 people killed , according to Israeli tallies . Around 100 people remain in captivity , although a third are believed to be dead . <p> Neutra was born and raised in the United States , before he emigrated to Israel as a lone soldier and enlisted in the Armored Corps , according to the Hostages and Missing Families Forum , an advocacy group for those held captive and their families . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu extended his " heartfelt condolences " to the family . " We share in the family 's heavy grief , " he said in a statement , adding , " We will continue to act resolutely and tirelessly until we return all of our captives -- the living and the dead . " <p> New York Gov . Kathy Hochul , who met with Neutra 's parents in March , also offered condolences to his family . " We pray that his body can be returned to his family who have been speaking out for him &amp; all hostages since that horrific day , " she said in a post on X. <p> Speaking to NBC News ' " TODAY " in September , Neutra 's parents called for a ceasefire and hostage-release deal with Hamas . <p> " We basically ask ourselves every morning , ' What are we doing today to try and bring him out ? ' " Ronen Neutra said , adding that it was " critical that people do not forget " the hostages . <p> News of Neutra 's death came just two days after the mother of Israeli American hostage Edan Alexander told NBC News that she was both shaken and relieved to see her son in a Hamas-issued propaganda video . <p> " To get this video it 's a huge relief for me to see that he 's still strong . It was amazing , " Yael Alexander said in a video call Saturday , hours after the video , captioned " time is running out , " was posted on the Telegram channel of Hamas ' military wing , the Qassam Brigades . <p> The 20-year-old , who appears under duress in the Hamas video , calls on President-elect Donald Trump to use his power to negotiate for the freedom of those who remain in captivity in Gaza . <p> While a fragile ceasefire between Israel and Lebanon 's Hezbollah militant group appeared to be holding , there have been few signs of progress in talks to secure a release of the remaining hostages or a cessation of fighting with Hamas in Gaza , where more than 44,000 people have been killed in 14 months of war , according to local health officials . <p> Hamas leaders held talks with Egyptian security officials Sunday to explore ways to reach a deal with Israel that could secure the release of hostages in return for Palestinian prisoners . 
@@118387201 <h> Share on Social Media <p> President-elect Donald Trump has a message for Hamas as his return to the White House approaches . <p> " Everybody is talking about the hostages who are being held so violently , inhumanely , and against the will of the entire World , in the Middle East -- But it 's all talk , and no action ! " he wrote on Truth Social on Monday . " Please let this TRUTH serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity . " <p> " Those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America . RELEASE THE HOSTAGES NOW ! " Trump concluded . <p> Trump 's remarks came after U.S. National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan said that Hamas is starting to feel pressure and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has agreed that " the time is right " for a cease-fire agreement that returns the remaining captives from Gaza after President Joe Biden 's administration spoke to the family of American hostage Edan Alexander . <p> " I do think that Hamas is feeling the pressure . They 're feeling the pressure because one of their main partners in crime here , Hezbollah , has now cut a cease-fire deal , " Sullivan explained on Sunday 's " Face the Nation . " <p> " They 're feeling the pressure , of course , because their top leader , Sinwar , has been killed . So , they may be looking anew at the possibility of getting a cease-fire and hostage deal , " he added . A 13-part ceasefire between Hezbollah and Israel was announced last week . <p> Sullivan further added that the Biden administration is " working actively with all of the key players in the region , including Israel and Turkey and Qatar and Egypt , " to bring to fruition a cease-fire between Israel and Hamas -- one that will hopefully return the remaining hostages home and also end the war in the region . <p> Trump 's Monday warning also came a day after naming businessman and daughter Tiffany Trump 's father-in-law Massad Boulos as his pick for senior adviser on Arab and Middle Eastern affairs . <p> Also on Sunday , the president-elect likened the Jan. 6 rioters to " hostages " in response to Biden pardoning his son Hunter Biden . <p> " Does the Pardon given by Joe to Hunter include the J-6 Hostages , who have now been imprisoned for years ? Such an abuse and miscarriage of Justice ! " Trump wrote in a Truth Social post on Sunday . <h> Subscribe to Breaking News . <p> JD Knapp is a news editor at TheWrap , with a personal preference for horror movies , bubblegum pop , reality TV , sitcoms , and animation . After growing up in Connecticut and graduating from Emerson College in Boston with a degree in Broadcast Journalism , he has gone on to work for national outlets such as People , E ! News , The ... 
@@118407405 <h> Syria rebels ' at gates ' of central city Hama <p> Fires blaze after an air strike on the Syria 's jihadist-ruled northwestern city of Idlib . ( Omar HAJ KADOUR ) ( Omar HAJ KADOUR/AFP/AFP ) <p> Syrian rebel forces arrived at the gates of the key city of Hama on Tuesday , as their fighting with the military sparked " a large wave of displacement " , a war monitor said . <p> The Islamist-led rebels were advancing on Syria 's fourth-largest city , buoyed by their lightning capture of swathes of the north in an offensive that ended four years of relative calm . <p> The sudden flare-up in the more than decade-old civil war in Syria drew appeals for de-escalation from across the international community . <p> The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights on Tuesday evening said the rebels were " now at the gates of Hama city " and that fighters had shelled some neighbourhoods . <p> The Britain-based Observatory , which has a network of sources in Syria , said Hama was witnessing " a large wave of displacement " due to fighting around the city . <p> It also reported people being displaced from villages in parts of Hama province 's north and west . <p> AFP images showed people fleeing the town of Suran , between Aleppo and Hama , many of them carrying whatever they could take aboard their vehicles . <p> " Large military reinforcements have arrived to the city of Hama to bolster the forces on the front lines and confront any attempted attack , " state news agency SANA reported , citing a Syrian military source . <p> A statement from Syria 's army command said its forces were striking " terrorist organisations " in north Hama and Idlib provinces , with Russian air support . <p> Russia is a key ally of President Bashar al-Assad . Its 2015 intervention in the Syrian civil war turned the tide in his government 's favour but since 2022 the Ukraine war has tied down much of its military resources . <p> - ' Threat ' to popular base - <p> Hama was a bastion of opposition to the Assad government early in the civil war . <p> Its capture by the rebels would " pose a threat to the regime 's popular base " , Observatory director Rami Abdel Rahman said . <p> The countryside west of the city is home to many Alawites , followers of the same offshoot of Shiite Islam as the president and his security chiefs . <p> An AFP journalist in the northern Hama countryside saw dozens of Syrian army tanks and military vehicles abandoned by the side of the road leading to Hama . <p> " We want to advance on Hama after combing " towns that have been captured , a rebel fighter who identified himself as Abu al-Huda al-Sourani told AFP . <p> AFPTV footage showed rebel fighters clashing with the Syrian military in Halfaya , about 20 kilometres ( 12 miles ) northwest of Hama . <p> The United Nations says nearly 50,000 people have been displaced by the fighting since it began last Wednesday . <p> At least 602 people have been killed , mostly combatants but also including 104 civilians , according to the Observatory . <p> - UN alarm - <p> The exodus of civilians just as winter takes hold has triggered international concern . <p> UN chief Antonio Guterres said he was " alarmed " by the violence and called for an immediate halt . <p> The European Union and the United States called on all sides to de-escalate . <p> Assad is no longer the pariah in the Arab world that he was at the height of the civil war . <p> At a summit in Cairo last year , Arab leaders agreed to reinstate Syria 's membership of the Arab League , marking the start of a slow rehabilitation . <p> Turkish ally Qatar has been the main exception , refusing to normalise relations with Assad 's government . <p> Its foreign ministry spokesperson Majed Al-Ansari denied any military role in the rebel offensive but said a negotiated settlement between the warring parties was the only way to end the conflict . <p> - Civilian exodus - <p> One anxious resident of Syria 's second city Aleppo , who declined to be identified , spoke of panic as the rebels overran it on Friday and Saturday . <p> " There were terrible traffic jams , " he said . <p> But others remained trapped inside the rebel-controlled city . <p> HTS has its origins in Al-Qaeda 's former Syria branch and has faced accusations of human rights abuses including torture . <p> Nazih Yristian , 60 , who lives in Aleppo 's Armenian neighbourhood , said he and his wife had tried to flee but the main road out had been cut . Since then , the couple have cloistered themselves at home , he said . <p> " No one attacked us so far , but we want to leave until things calm down . We have been displaced a lot and we will be displaced again . " <p> The Norwegian Refugee Council warned that the rebel offensive " threatens to drag the country back into the darkest days of this near 14-year conflict " . <p> " In Aleppo , NRC teams report food shortages as bakeries and shops shut down . Damage to water networks has also reduced domestic water supplies , " its Middle East and North Africa director Angelita Caredda said . <p> Russian President Vladimir Putin and his Iranian counterpart Masoud Pezeshkian pledged " unconditional support " for their ally , according to the Kremlin . <p> Putin later urged a " speedy " end to the offensive during a phone call with his Turkish counterpart Recep Tayyip Erdogan . <p> Turkish forces and their proxies have controlled swathes of territory in northern Syria since 2016 . <p> Iran 's Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi meanwhile said : " If the Syrian government asks us to send forces to Syria , we will study their request . " <p> Neighbouring Iraq too has expressed support , and on Tuesday a pro-Iran group within the security forces called on the government to go further and send combat troops . <p> A spokesman for Kataeb Hezbollah , part of the Iran-backed " axis of resistance " , said the group had not yet decided to deploy its own fighters but urged Baghdad to act . <p> burs/kir/jsa/dcp <h> Latest stories <p> Namibia 's ruling SWAPO party was declared winner Tuesday of last week 's disputed elections , ushering in the southern African country 's first woman president after a disputed vote that the main opposition has already said it does not recognise.Nandi-Ndaitwah , 72 , becomes the first woman to rule the mineral-rich southern African country that has been governed by the South West Africa People 's Organisation ( SWAPO ) since independence from apartheid South Africa in 1990 . <p> Democratic Sens . Elizabeth Warren ( Mass. ) and Richard Blumenthal ( Conn. ) sent a letter to President Biden and Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin this week calling for a policy directive that would prevent the misuse of armed forces in the country after raising concerns about President-elect Trump 's vague threats to potentially use the military on domestic enemies . The ... <p> Insurgents led by the Islamist rebel group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham along with Turkey-backed opposition fighters were about 10 kilometers from Hama , Syria 's fourth largest city , after seizing Aleppo over the weekend . Syrian insurgents captured four new towns early Tuesday , bringing them closer to the central city of Hama , opposition activists said , while government forces retook some territory they lost last week.The new push came as Turkey 's president -- whose country is a main backer of insurgent g <p> A Vietnamese property tycoon sentenced to death in a multi-billion-dollar fraud case arrived in court Tuesday , as she awaits the verdict of her appeal in one of the biggest corruption prosecutions in history . In her official handwritten appeal of more than five pages seen by AFP , Lan said the death sentence was " too severe and harsh " , asking the court to consider a more " lenient and humane approach " . <p> Ukraine insisted Tuesday that NATO membership was the only " real guarantee " for its security , but foreign ministers from the alliance sidestepped Kyiv 's push for an invite ahead of Donald Trump 's return to the US presidency . " We are convinced that the only real guarantee of security for Ukraine , as well as a deterrent to further Russian aggression against Ukraine and other states , is Ukraine 's full membership in NATO , " the foreign ministry in Kyiv said . <p> Senior employees at several institutions offering nursing and midwifery courses in Afghanistan on Tuesday said women would be barred from classes , following an edict by the Taliban supreme leader.A senior employee of another centre told AFP his boss had been at a separate meeting with health officials on Tuesday after confusion about the rule . <p> Notre Dame cathedral will reopen in Paris on Saturday with incoming US president Donald Trump to attend the ceremony marking the resurrection of the Gothic masterpiece five years after a devastating fire.Trump posted on his Truth Social website that Macron had " done a wonderful job ensuring that Notre Dame has been restored to its full level of glory , and even more so . <p> France headed into a new political crisis Tuesday as opposition lawmakers vowed to topple the minority government of Prime Minister Michel Barnier in a no-confidence vote after just three months in office.The far-left France Unbowed ( LFI ) opposition party said it would bring a no-confidence motion after Barnier used executive powers Monday to force through social security legislation without a vote . <p> UK officials hinted Tuesday that a deal was in the works with Greece to end a decades-long dispute over the highly contested and priceless Parthenon Marbles.A spokesman for Starmer later indicated that the UK government would not stand in the way of any agreement between Greece and the British Museum to end the centuries-old saga . <p> A sudden burst of political chaos in South Korea has put investors in Asia on the defensive , pointing to a cautious market open across the continent on Wednesday despite Wall Street 's resilience the previous day . South Korea 's President Yoon Suk Yeol declared martial law on Tuesday to thwart " anti-state forces " among his opponents , creating the most serious challenge to the country 's democracy since the 1980s , only to lift it hours later after lawmakers rejected the move and protesters gathered outside parliament . At one point , it was down 2% and set for its biggest one-day loss since Nov. 9 , 2016 , the day after the 2016 U.S. election that swept Donald Trump to power and started the clock ticking on a looming trade war with China . <p> President Joe Biden on Tuesday announced more than $1 billion in humanitarian assistance to Africa during a visit to Angola , where the United States is showcasing a major infrastructure project aimed at countering China 's investments on the continent . " I 'm announcing over $1 billion of new humanitarian support for Africans displaced from homes by historic droughts , " Biden said . <p> Israeli leaders hailed on Tuesday a pledge by U.S. President-elect Donald Trump that there would be " hell to pay " in the Middle East unless hostages held in the Gaza Strip were released ahead of his Jan. 20 inauguration . The reaction in Gaza was less enthusiastic . Writing on Truth Social , and without naming any group , Trump said the hostages had to be freed by the time he was sworn in . <p> President-elect Donald Trump is demanding the immediate release of Israeli hostages still being held in Gaza , saying that if they are not freed before he is sworn into office for a second term there will be " HELL TO PAY . " " Please let this TRUTH serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " Trump wrote in a post on his Truth Social site . It was not immediately clear whether Trump was threatening to directly involve the U.S. military in Israel 's ongoing campaign against Hamas in Gaza . 
@@118410302 <h> UNRWA head official talks about his brother 's death in Gaza <p> Hani Almadhoun says his chef brother was targeted because he was helping people . <p> ByABC NEWS <p> December 3 , 2024 , 1:28 PM <p> 5:19 <p> UNRWA official discusses brother 's death in Gaza and aid challenges <p> ABCNews.com <p> Hani Almadhoun , senior director of philanthropy for the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees ( UNRWA ) , spoke with ABC News about why he believes his brother Mahmoud was killed in an Israeli airstrike and the agency 's challenges in getting aid to the region . <p> Palestinian chef Mahmoud Almadhoun was killed in an Israeli strike in Gaza on Saturday , according to Hani . Hani Almadhoun reported that at approximately 9 a.m. on Saturday , the chef and his friend , Abu Tamer , were walking together when an Israeli drone struck directly beneath Mahmoud , fatally injuring him . <p> Hani told ABC News that his brother did not deserve to be killed . He was a humanitarian and had been preparing meals for the local hospital over the past 400 days . Hani emphasized that his brother did not deserve to be taken from them or his seven children . <p> UNRWA official discusses brother 's death in Gaza and aid challenges <p> ABCNews.com <p> ABC News sat down with Hani as he mourned the loss of his brother and aid challenges in Gaza . <p> ABC NEWS : The United Nations says the war in Gaza has led to a stark increase in the number of households experiencing severe hunger . Over the weekend , World Central Kitchen paused its operations after an airstrike on a vehicle killed some of its workers . The IDF said that it was targeting a terrorist who allegedly worked for the aid organization . <p> Seven World Central workers were killed in an April attack that Israel later called a mistake . The IDF has said in the past that it 's committed to not harming civilians . Now , the UN Agency for Palestinian Refugees ( UNRWA ) , is pausing delivery of aid through the main crossing into Gaza , saying it 's too dangerous . <p> This comes as UNRWA 's head of philanthropy says his brother , who ran a soup kitchen , was killed by an Israeli airstrike on Saturday morning . Hani Almadhoun joins us now . Hani , thank you so much and our condolences for the loss of your brother . Let 's start out just by asking you about tell us about Mahmoud . <p> HANI ALMADHOUN : Mahmoud is my baby brother . He is 33 years old and he is , his birthday was around the corner at the end of this month and he was targeted in the north of Gaza . He does not deserve to be killed . He 's a humanitarian . <p> He was cooking up meals for the local hospital and has been doing so for the last 400 days . And he did not deserve to be robbed from us and from his seven kids . He has been running the Gaza soup kitchen in the ground in north Gaza , doing a heroic work , delivering water , cooking meals and just giving people hope in north of Gaza , where the famine is too real . <p> ABC NEWS : As far as you know , what happened on the day he died ? <p> ALMADHOUN : We have an eyewitness account . At 9 a.m. he left the house to go check up on Kamal Adwan Hospital where he is delivering produce that morning and then 30 yards outside the shelter he was targeted by an Israeli drone that killed him and only him . He is a full-time civilian . <p> He 's my brother and he has been supporting the North , trying to help the community as they face this nightmare in Gaza . And he was , we believe he was targeted because he was helping people with food and water , which means they can stay in north of Gaza , an area that 's been under complete siege and attacks for the last 60 days . <p> ABC NEWS : You also work for UNRWA , which paused aid through a main crossing because of security concerns . What dangers are you coming up against ? <p> ALMADHOUN : Yeah . On behalf of UNRWA USA , where I work , this is the largest humanitarian actor . It is the backbone of the humanitarian response in Gaza . Unfortunately , because of the conditions created in the ground by the Israeli military , humanitarian workers do n't feel safe . <p> Not just physically attacked , but also the aid is being stolen by organized criminals that may have connections with the Israeli Army . This is wrong . People are not involved . They are civilians . They should not be put in this dangerous situation . <p> ABC NEWS : Your brother was a father of seven , as you mentioned . How are his children holding up ? <p> ALMADHOUN : Well , his first son , Roma , has been injured three days before his dad . So he 's recovering . He may lose sight of his eye and his groin , a groin area . So we 're worried about . The daughter , as you know , are trying to make sense of this . <p> ABC NEWS : Israel 's parliament voted in October to ban UNRWA from operating within Gaza and the West Bank , which will go into effect next year . How are you preparing for the possibility of this not being overturned by a higher court ? <p> ALMADHOUN : This is a real challenge and a real concern . This is a short-sighted decision . UNRWA has been cleared by two , not by one , two independent UN investigations that say there is no evidence to support the Israeli claims . They 've asked anybody with evidence to provide this . <p> Despite this , there is an organized and well orchestrated and deeply funded effort to damage UNRWA , to spread misinformation . Look , 60% of the aid in Gaza right now is being brought by UNRWA . There is no replacement for UNRWA and there is no other respectable NGO stepping up to say we ca n't do that job . <p> ABC NEWS : Can you give us a sense . We obviously see little snippets in the news of what life is like in Gaza right now . Just about how concerned you are for for the people who are there . <p> ALMADHOUN : So my parents are there . It 's a struggle because they 're in their 70s . My mom has to manage her diabetes . My dad is not OK in the mental space . We 're concerned for him because he got hurt as well in a quadcopter attack . <p> There are no meat in Northern Gaza . There is no produce . There is a lot limitations . One banana in Gaza now brings $15 . Can you imagine just one banana ? A potato is , one potato is a $10 . And this is because aid is not allowed in and there is destruction , intentional destruction and the aid delivery . <p> And it 's not complicated . This is really the Israeli military control fully controls Gaza . They can get these organized criminals to stop . Somebody has to be held accountable for this . My parents do not deserve this treatment . <p> ABC NEWS : Hani Almadhoun , once again , we are so sorry for for your loss and all that you continue to endure . We should mention that we 've reached out to the IDF for more information but have not heard back . 
@@118410306 <h> Gaza teen receiving medical care in US after double leg amputation <p> Editor 's note : This article includes graphic descriptions of wartime injuries . <p> In recovery for severe injuries incurred during an alleged missile strike in Gaza , a teenage boy traveled during the Thanksgiving holiday weekend and met with those who helped arrange for him to receive medical attention in the United States . <p> Ahmed Abu Obayda , 15 , was in critical condition in February from an explosion believed to have been caused by a missile strike in his neighborhood in Khan Younis , a city in southern Gaza , while he was picking vegetables , according to ABC 's San Francisco station KGO . <p> Ahmed suffered injuries to his face , hands and legs . Both of his legs were so severely injured that he needed two below-the-knee amputations . <p> Dr. Mohammad Subeh , an emergency physician in Saratoga -- 45 miles southeast of San Francisco -- said he met Ahmed on the second day of his first medical mission to Gaza . The teenager was seriously hurt and needed immediate surgery , which occurred in a tent hospital -- without anesthesia . <p> " Ahmed came to me on the verge of death . He was hemorrhaging . Mangled lower extremities . His legs were pretty much gone , hanging on just pieces of flesh , " he told KGO . " Half of his left hand was gone . He had shrapnel injuries to his limbs and abdomen . " <p> " Not much in terms of equipment and medications were available to us , and so it made it nearly impossible for us to save people 's lives or save limbs , " Subeh added . <p> Ahmed Abu Obayda speaks with KGO in Oakland , Calif . <p> KGO <p> After Ahmed was stabilized , he was transferred to Egypt for further care . That 's where he and his mother met workers from HEAL Palestine , a nonprofit organization that was set up in January 2024 to address the humanitarian needs on the ground in Gaza . <p> " Our team in Egypt found him in the spring , in need of care , " Steve Sosebee , the founder of HEAL Palestine , told ABC News . " We were able to get him arranged for care there , and once accepted , got his passport made , his visa , and brought him over with another injured child on the same flight . " <p> Since the Israel-Hamas war began on Oct. 7 , 2023 , at least 12,000 children have been injured , which is almost 70 per day , according to UNICEF . <p> They are " disproportionately wearing the scars of the war in Gaza , " according to the humanitarian aid organization . <p> However , very few children have been able to leave Gaza to receive care . <p> UNICEF said that between Jan. 1 and May 7 of this year , an average of 296 children a month were being medically evacuated from Gaza . <p> However , the Rafah border crossing between Gaza and Egypt was closed on May 7 , after Israeli forces launched a ground operation . Since the closing of the Rafah border crossing , 22 children a month have been medically evacuated . <p> " I was excited when I found out I was selected to come to the U.S. , " Ahmed told KGO , through an Arabic translator . <p> Ahmed and his mother arrived in the U.S. in July 2024 so that he could receive care at Shriners Children 's Northern California . He is currently undergoing rehabilitation to rebuild strength in his upper body and physical therapy for his injured left hand -- all while learning how to walk again , according to KGO . <p> But over Thanksgiving weekend , Ahmed traveled to Oakland and met with the doctors and nonprofit workers who helped bring him to the U.S. He was able to give them updates on his recovery . <p> He is expected to remain in the U.S. until at least May 2025 . <p> Since Hamas attacked Israel , at least 44,466 people have been killed in Gaza and at least 105,358 have been injured , according to the Hamas-run Gaza Ministry of Health . About 1,700 Israelis have been killed and about 8,700 have been injured , according to Israeli officials . 
@@118411701 <h> This year , Arab-American political power came to the fore <p> Arab Americans hold a vigil at the Islamic Center of America for the victims of a series of attacks in Lebanon , in Dearborn , Michigan on September 20 , 2024 Rebecca Cook/Reuters <p> One of the major political developments in the United States that has gotten little attention in the wake of the Democrats ' astounding loss in the November 5 elections is the success of Arab American political organising . <p> A new generation of political activists has emerged that has earned representation in unprecedented numbers and impact for the 3.5-million-strong Arab-American community in elected and appointed political offices . It also put Arab Americans on the electoral map for the first time by launching the Uncommitted movement during the Democratic primaries and making a foreign policy issue -- Israel 's genocide in Gaza -- a national moral issue . <p> The Democratic Party underestimated the power of this new generation and the intensity of citizen anger , which cost it dearly in the election . <p> What happened in the Arab American community is a vintage all-American tale . They , like other communities , started their pursuit of political impact as a low-profile immigrant group who became dynamic citizens after political developments threatened their wellbeing and motivated them to take action . <p> Advertisement <p> Arab American mobilisation traces its beginnings to small-scale participation in Jesse Jackson 's 1984 and 1988 presidential campaigns for the Democratic Party . Jackson was the first serious presidential candidate to include Arab Americans as Democratic Party convention delegates , part of his Rainbow Coalition of " the white , the Hispanic , the Black , the Arab , the Jew , the woman , the Native American , the small farmer , the businessperson , the environmentalist , the peace activist , the young , the old , the lesbian , the gay , and the disabled who make up the American quilt " . <p> His campaign gave momentum to voter registration drives within the Arab American community , which continued in the following three decades . By 2020 , nearly 90 percent of Arab Americans were registered to vote . By 2024 , the Arab American voter block -- in its expansive coalition with other groups -- had grown large enough to impact outcomes in critical swing states , especially Michigan and Pennsylvania . <p> The attacks of 9/11 and the subsequent backlash motivated Arab Americans even more to engage in meaningful politics . Many members of the community refused to live in fear , trying to avoid the intimidation and smears that had long kept their parents and grandparents subdued and quiescent politically . <p> As Omar Kurdi , founder of Arab Americans of Cleveland , told me , " We were no longer silent because we saw the dangers to us of being quiet and politically inactive . We refused to live in fear of politics . Since then , we have been proud , confident , and active in public . We no longer accept crumbs , but want our share of the pie , and we understand now how we can work for that . " <p> Advertisement <p> As a result , over the past two decades , Arab Americans have entered the public sphere and politics at all levels : from local , city , and county positions to state and federal ones . <p> Elected officials say they succeeded because their constituents knew and trusted them . Candidates who won state and national congressional seats -- like Rashida Tlaib in Michigan -- inspired hundreds of younger Arab Americans to enter the political fray . <p> Successful experiences in city politics educated newcomers on how they could impact decision-making , improve their own lives , and serve the entire community . They mastered locally the basics of politics , one Ohio activist told me , " like lobbying , bringing pressure , protesting , educating the public , achieving consensus , and creating coalitions based on shared values , problems , and goals " . <p> All of this momentum , built up over the years , coalesced into the Uncommitted movement in 2024 . As the Biden administration unconditionally supported Israel to carry out genocidal violence in Palestine and Lebanon , Arab-American activists moved to use their newfound leverage as voters in electoral politics . <p> They joined like-minded social justice activists from other groups that mainstream political parties had long taken for granted -- including Muslim Americans , Blacks , Hispanics , youth , progressive Jews , churches , and unions -- and sent a strong message during the primaries that they would not support Biden 's re-election bid unless he changed his position on Gaza . <p> The campaign hoped that tens of thousands of voters in the primaries would send the Democrats a big message by voting " uncommitted " , but in fact , hundreds of thousands of Democrats did so across half a dozen critical states . These numbers were enough to send 30 Uncommitted delegates to the Democratic National Convention in August , where they could lobby their colleagues to shape the party 's national platform . <p> Advertisement <p> One activist involved in the process told me they convinced 320 of the other 5,000 delegates to support their demand for a party commitment to a Gaza ceasefire and arms embargo on Israel -- not enough to change the party position , but enough to prove that working from inside the political system over time could move things in a better direction . <p> Intergenerational support and motivation were big factors in the success of the Uncommitted movement . Arab American Institute Executive Director Maya Berry , who has been involved in such activities for three decades , told me that Arab Americans were always in political positions , but in small numbers , so they had little impact . However , they learned how the system works and provided valuable insights when the time came this year to act . She mentioned Abbas Alawiyeh as an example , who co-chairs the Uncommitted National Movement and worked as a congressional staffer for many years . <p> The Uncommitted movement 's precise contribution to the Democratic Party 's defeat is hotly debated right now . One activist told me the movement " placed Arab Americans at the centre of Democratic Party politics , led the progressives , helped Harris lose in swing states , and nationally brought attention to Gaza , divestment , and moral issues in ways we had never been able to do previously . " <p> All this occurs in uncharted territory , with no clarity if Arab Americans can influence both the Democratic and Republican parties who might now compete for their vote . <p> One Arab-American activist in his 30s added , " We are liberated from the Democrats who took us for granted , and we Arab Americans are now a swing vote officially . " <p> Advertisement <p> Other activists I spoke to thought the election experience could set the stage for a larger movement to counter the pro-Israel lobby AIPAC , though that would require conquering the next hurdle of establishing Political Action Committees ( PACs ) and raising substantial funds . <p> That is a future possibility . For now , it is important to recognise that a national-level Arab-American political effort has been born from the fires and devastation of the US-Israeli genocide in Palestine and Lebanon . Whether it can improve the wellbeing of Arab Americans and all Americans will be revealed in the years ahead . <p> The views expressed in this article are the author 's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera 's editorial stance . 
@@118422912 <h> The ' Post ' went along with IDF soldiers for raids with the IDF in Aida and Azza camps in Bethlehem . <p> IDF soldiers of the Tavor Battalion of the Search and Rescue Brigade and 8208 Reserve Battalion take part in an operation of Etzion Brigade to detain suspects in Aida and Azza camps in Bethlehem on December 3. ( photo credit : SETH J. FRANTZMAN ) <p> The IDF conducted a series of overnight raids late Monday night and into early Tuesday morning in areas around Bethlehem . During the operation , troops detained wanted individuals , interrogated dozens of suspects , and searched and found weapons and incitement materials , the IDF said . <p> The Jerusalem Post accompanied the soldiers during raids on several multistory residential buildings.Troops combed several neighborhoods , searching for suspects . Female combat soldiers took up positions in alleyways and went door-to-door in the precision operation . <p> It was biting cold as the forces looked for and successfully detained the suspects in the dead of night . The streets of Bethlehem were quiet , with only the barking of a few dogs audible as the troops moved quietly from place to place.The IDF conducts this type of operation often to keep terrorists in check and make it clear that Israel 's security forces are one step ahead of its enemies . <p> The raids were aimed at sites in Aida and Azza , neighborhoods north of Bethlehem that emerged from refugee camps established in the 1950s . <p> Refugee camps in Bethlehem and other areas of the West Bank and Gaza Strip have often been recruiting grounds for terrorist groups , including Hamas and the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine . IDF soldiers of the Tavor Battalion of the Search and Rescue Brigade and 8208 Reserve Battalion take part in an operation of Etzion Brigade to detain suspects in Aida and Azza camps in Bethlehem on December 3. ( credit : SETH J. FRANTZMAN ) <h> Challenging areas <p> These areas present a challenge because the buildings often have multiple entrances and numerous small apartments with what seems like endless locked iron doors to a warren of courtyards . Soldiers have to navigate all this while keeping watch down alleyways and overhead for threats . <p> The soldiers , part of the Etzion Brigade , prepared for the operation prior to 12 a.m. at a base in Gush Etzion . They included members of the Tavor Battalion of the Search and Rescue Brigade , which includes numerous female combat soldiers . <p> I accompanied them . Most of the soldiers were women , carrying their M-16 rifles and moving quickly to reach their objectives and search for suspects . The operation was accompanied by reservists from the 8208th Infantry Battalion . <p> During the operation , we saw how soldiers work as part of a small team to search for suspects . All of this was conducted prior to sunrise , with the goal being to detain the suspects as quickly and quietly as possible during the night . <p> This reduces friction and contact with the civilian population in the area . It also means that those affected by the raid are mostly residents of the buildings where the suspects live . <p> In our case , the soldiers often had to knock on several doors to find the suspects they wanted . When the young men were found , they were escorted to a waiting military vehicle before being taken to a central collection point , where other detainees from various raids in the area were also taken . <p> These kinds of routine operations are designed to keep terrorist groups and threats in check by remaining one step ahead of them . The area of the Etzion Brigade 's operations , which includes Bethlehem and other Palestinian towns , has not seen the kind of increase in terrorist threats that have occurred in the northern West Bank . <p> It was n't always like this , though . In decades past , there were numerous terrorists who took up positions in Beit Jala in the Second Intifada and operated from camps such as Dehaishe , Aida , and Azza in Bethlehem . <p> These days , things appear relatively quiet due to the operations that the soldiers are conducting . 
@@118422915 <p> " Hamas is required to release the hostages . President Trump put the emphasis in the right place , on Hamas , and not on the Israeli government , as is customary ( elsewhere ) , " Netanyahu said at the start of a cabinet meeting . <p> I want to thank President Trump for his strong statement yesterday about the need for Hamas to release the hostages , the responsibility of Hamas , and this adds another force to our continued effort to release all the hostages.Thank you , President Trump . **26;3284;TOOLONG <p> Other Israeli leaders also hailed the pledge that there would be " hell to pay " in the Middle East unless hostages held in the Gaza Strip were released ahead of Trump 's inauguration . <p> Israeli ministers lined up to thank Trump for his hard-hitting words . <p> " How refreshing it is to hear clear and morally sound statements that do not create a false equivalence or call for addressing ' both sides , ' but rather clarify who are good and who are bad , " said Finance Minister Bezalel Smotrich.Finance Minister Bezalel Smotrich attends Israel Hayom 's security conference in Jerusalem , December 1 , 2024 ( credit : YONATAN SINDEL/FLASH90 ) <p> " This is the way to bring back the hostages : by increasing the pressure and the costs for Hamas and its supporters , and defeating them , rather than giving in to their absurd demands . " <h> Reactions in Gaza <p> Responding to Trump 's post , senior Hamas official Basem Naim said Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu had sabotaged all efforts to secure a deal that involved exchanging the hostages for Palestinian prisoners held in Israeli prisons . <p> " Therefore , we understand ( Trump 's ) message is directed first at Netanyahu and his government to end this evil game , " he told Reuters . <p> Gaza political analyst Ramiz Moghani said Trump 's threat was directed at both Hamas and its backer Iran and warned that it would embolden Israel to not only expel Palestinians from swathes of Gaza but also annex the nearby , " Israeli-occupied " West Bank . <p> " These statements have serious implications for the Israeli war in Gaza and the West Bank , " he told Reuters . <p> Mohammed Dahlan , like hundreds of thousands of Gazans , has had to flee his house because of the fighting and is desperate for the war to end . But he said he was shocked by Trump . <p> " We were hoping that the new administration would bring with it a breakthrough ... but it seems ( Trump ) is in complete agreement with the Israeli administration and that there are apparently more punitive measures ahead , " he said . <h> Trump 's vow <p> On October 7 , 2023 , Hamas terrorists invaded Israel 's south , massacring some 1,200 people and taking over 250 hostages into the Gaza Strip . Of the hostages , 100 are still held captive by Hamas terrorists and their associates in the Gaza Strip . <p> Writing on Truth Social on Monday , and without naming any group , Trump said the hostages had to be freed by the time he was sworn in . <p> If his demand was not met , he said : " Those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America . " 
@@118425804 <p> In a stunning offensive that appeared to catch the regime of Bashar al-Assad off guard , opposition forces took over much of the Syrian city of Aleppo last week , and began moving on the city of Hama , another major urban center . Despite pledges on Monday from the governments of Russia and Iran that they would increase their support for the Syrian regime , rebel advances continued throughout the day . What was recently a largely dormant uprising may have entered an entirely new phase . <p> Last week 's attacks are the latest wave of resistance to Assad 's despotic rule , a civil war that began in 2011 and quickly descended into a proxy war , eventually leading to hundreds of thousands of deaths and millions of refugees . Russia and Iran helped stabilize the regime even as it used chemical weapons against its people . The region 's Sunni autocracies , meanwhile , supported various rebel groups . Some of these were secular nationalists who wanted an end to Assad 's dictatorship ; others were Islamist Sunnis who wanted an Islamic state . ISIS , the most infamous and violent of the rebel groups , was among the latter , and claimed significant territory in Iraq and Syria . Then , in 2019 , a United States-led coalition attacked and largely eliminated ISIS in Syria , and it appeared that Assad had decisively won the war . But now , with Assad 's allies engaged in Ukraine and in Lebanon , the rebel groups have been able to make their boldest and most successful military moves in years , surprising both the Syrian leadership and the rest of the world . <p> To understand more about the situation in Syria , I spoke by phone with Fawaz A. Gerges , a professor of international relations at the London School of Economics , and the author of " ISIS : A History . " His most recent book is called " What Really Went Wrong : The West and the Failure of Democracy in the Middle East . " During our conversation , which has been edited for length and clarity , we discussed why the Assad regime has been diminished in the last decade , why the Islamist opposition to Assad remains more powerful than the secular resistance , and where ultimate responsibility for one of the worst calamities of the twenty-first century lies . <p> What 's happened in Syria over the past week has been shocking for almost everyone . But was it shocking for people like yourself who follow this region extremely closely ? <p> I was shocked because of the speed with which the Islamist and nationalist opposition was able to recapture large parts of northwest Syria , including Aleppo . Aleppo is the second-largest city in Syria -- the cultural capital . It used to be an economic powerhouse for Syria . And of equal importance , the Syrian government 's recapture of Aleppo , in 2016 , marked a turning point in the civil war . <p> This was and is a military earthquake . First , because of the ability of the opposition to really carry out a pre ? mptive attack , which meant that the opposition , mainly Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham ( H.T.S. ) and various groups , had been planning for this attack for a long time . This is not a byproduct of a month or two but probably a couple of years . And second , the reason I was surprised was the swiftness with which many Syrian Army units folded . For Aleppo to fall so quickly , and for the Army and the security forces to be crushed so quickly , tells me that the Syrian Army and the Syrian government suffer from major vulnerabilities . We knew about them , but we did not really appreciate their gravity and depth . <p> Can you explain what you mean by both the Islamist and nationalist opposition ? <p> The opposition includes more than a dozen factions , including both Islamist and nationalist factions . You have a combined Sunni Islamist opposition , and then nationalist and somewhat secular opposition . But I think this kind of division overlooks an overarching point . The key driver behind the rebels and the opposition is H.T.S. H.T.S. is the vanguard of the opposition . H.T.S. was originally called Al Nusra Front and , historically , it was an affiliate of Al Qaeda , of Osama bin Laden and Ayman al-Zawahiri , the two late leaders of Al Qaeda . And H.T.S. tried to distance itself from Al Qaeda in the past few years . Al Nusra Front changed its name to H.T.S. because it wanted to send a clear message to its regional supporters , particularly Turkey and Qatar , and also to the international community , that it no longer really belonged to Al Qaeda . Even though H.T.S. says that it 's no longer really an integral part of Al Qaeda , it 's a Salafi jihadi organization . So it subscribes to a kind of Sunni revolutionary doctrine . It 's still a declared foreign terrorist group by both the United States and the United Kingdom . <p> As for the more nationalist groups , less Islamist groups , they have been the mainstream opposition , and they have as many as ten thousand fighters . They are more pluralistic and believe in a more open society that includes all ethnic and religious elements . They are less dogmatic and religiously driven . But sadly , they did n't gain momentum , largely because they were reliant on outside powers , including the United States . <p> But I think the opposition could not have done what they have done in the past few days without the fighting capabilities of H.T.S. , without the willpower of H.T.S. , without the organizational capacity of H.T.S. , without the organizational and the decision-making process of H.T.S. At the end of the day , H.T.S. will take ownership of whatever advance , whatever gains , military gains , that the opposition achieves in Syria . <p> To what degree has this group and others like it used the destruction of ISIS to their advantage ? <p> I think you really can not understand the map of the Syrian opposition , both Islamist and nationalist , without understanding the internal civil war that devastated the oppositional groups in Syria from 2013 up to 2019 . This particular civil war was between ISIS and the Al Nusra Front . It was a fight about power . <p> At first , during the civil war , ISIS gained the upper hand , the U.S.-led coalition changed the balance of power by destroying most of the capabilities of ISIS . The United States unwittingly allowed H.T.S. to become the dominant opposition group in Syria . With very minor exceptions , the U.S.-led coalition has not systematically targeted H.T.S. , and has avoided killing its top leaders , particularly Abu Mohammad al-Julani . And Abu Mohammad al-Julani has proved to be a very clever and a very calculated operational leader -- not only by changing the name of Al Nusra Front to H.T.S. but also by sending direct and indirect messages to both regional actors and the United States that he was no longer really part of an Al Qaeda alliance . And more importantly , we have many reports that H.T.S. did provide some intelligence to the U.S.-led coalition about top leaders of ISIS . <p> Is the reason the United States has not tried to go after this group because the U.S. is not currently focussed on Syria ? Or is it because they think this group , in addition to changing its name , has also reformed so that it is no longer a threat to American interests ? <p> What 's fascinating is that throughout , really , the U.S. has consciously avoided targeting H.T.S. and consciously avoided attacking Abu Mohammad al-Julani and his top leaders . Not because the United States could not do it -- because they did decimate the ISIS leadership -- but I think it is because the United States wanted to drive a wedge between Al Nusra Front and ISIS , and focussed mainly on ISIS because it represented a greater threat to American interests and to its allies in the region , and also because of the relationship between Turkey and Al Nusra Front and then H.T.S. <p> Turkey and Qatar helped and provided financial support , and probably military arms , to H.T.S. Qatar denied funding the group in 2017 . My sense is that the intelligence co ? rdination between the United States and the Turkish and the Qatari governments probably mattered as well . This was not the lack of resources on the part of the United States , or the lack of will . The U.S. knows their addresses . They 're all in Idlib , in the northwest of the country , close to the Turkish border , and Turkey works very closely with them . This was a strategic decision on the part of the United States . <p> The story you read the most about the Assad regime is that its military weakness lies mostly in the fact that its allies -- the Iranians , Hezbollah , and Russia -- are tied down in other areas . Do you think that that is what is going on ? <p> I think it 's a partial explanation . I have a different explanation , too . I think most observers of Syria do n't really recognize the effects of the American sanctions on Syria . The American-imposed sanctions on Syria have decimated the Syrian economy . Between eighty and ninety per cent of the Syrian people , according to humanitarian agencies , need humanitarian aid . We have reports that the Syrian Army is not getting the nutrition that it needs for its soldiers and units . <p> The second aspect that is overlooked is that Israeli systematic attacks against the Syrian Army in the past two or three years have exacted a heavy toll on the decision-making , on the infrastructure , on the morale , on the units , on the leadership . And you have to take into account that Syria has been at war since 2011 . The Syrian Army has lost about a hundred thousand soldiers since 2011 . <p> So in this sense , H.T.S. and the opposition and the rebels know very well the vulnerabilities of the Assad regime . Not only do you have a broken economy , not only do you have abject poverty , not only do you have an army that is starved , but Israeli attacks have turned the same army into a shadow of its former self . <p> And then there 's the fact that the Assad government 's major regional and global backers are preoccupied somewhere else . Russia has withdrawn most of its forces from Syria in the past three years . Israel has systematically targeted Iranian assets in Syria , literally on a daily basis , in particular in the past year , and also targeted Hezbollah units , which played a pivotal role in allowing Bashar al-Assad not only to survive but to basically defeat most of the opposition . In the past year , Iran has begun to pull out most of its leadership assets from Syria because they were targeted and killed , and Hezbollah has been deeply engaged first in supporting Hamas in Gaza and then in Israel . <p> So all these drivers really have brought about this particular moment . And H.T.S. and its allies recognized that there was a window of opportunity , and they struck very hard . Their shock attack came on the same day that Israel and Hezbollah signed the ceasefire agreement . So it was quite a decisive moment , which H.T.S. and the rebels exploited . <p> But we 're talking about a moving target . The Syrian Army now , along with Russia , is likely preparing for a counterattack , in particular in Hama and other places . My take on it is that you 're going to see a great mobilization on the part of the Syrian Army and its allies , including the Russians and the Iranians and other militia forces . Even though what has happened is a military earthquake , this is still the beginning . <p> Syria has a relatively large Kurdish population , and in Syria 's post-ISIS era , when the civil war was considered over , there were still areas under Kurdish control that were being protected by the United States . And there was a sense that Assad had handed over control to Iran and Russia , who were making battlefield decisions . Can you describe what the Syrian state is right now ? <p> First and foremost , the Syrian war that ignited in 2011 has never ended . What we have seen since 2020 is a lull in the war . Syria is an explosive cocktail of non-state actors , of regional powers , great powers . You have more than ten thousand Islamist Sunni Salaf fighters , and they are directly and indirectly supported by Turkey . You have the Syrian national secular opposition , again , fully supported by Turkey in Idlib . In the Idlib area , you 're talking about five million people under the control of H.T.S. You also have the Kurds who are probably as powerful as H.T.S. , and they are currently supported by the United States , and the United States has around a thousand soldiers . You have Turkish forces in Idlib . You have Iranian as well as Hezbollah 's assets . You have a Russian base in Syria . So even though the Syrian government , the Assad government , controls about sixty per cent of Syrian territory , the reality is Syria is no longer a sovereign state . You can argue that the Assad government is the biggest state militia in Syria . But in a way , President Assad has forfeited Syrian sovereignty in order to survive . Because without the support of the Russians and the Iranians and Hezbollah and other non-state actors , including the militias , Assad probably could not have initially regained or recaptured some of the towns and cities , including Aleppo in 2016 . <p> The Iranian foreign minister was just in Syria , and he promised full support for the Syrian government . The Russian government also promised to send reinforcements to Syria . Turkey obviously supports its proxies in Syria , and the Kurds are moving in . So you 're not going to have just a war between Assad and H.T.S. You 're going to have a war between the Kurds in Syria , who are supported by the United States , and Turkey and their proxies . And the Kurds are also now moving into some of the areas which the Syrian government has withdrawn from . <p> What we 're seeing at this particular point is the reigniting of the Syrian war . But my fear is that we are also seeing the reigniting of the proxy war in Syria that almost destroyed the country between 2011 and 2020 . <p> Would it be equally fair to say that the Assad regime destroyed Syria in that time ? It still seems to me that in some fundamental sense this is morally Assad 's doing . <p> Well , there 's no denying that Assad , as the autocratic President of Syria , is first and foremost responsible for the catastrophe that has befallen Syria since 2011 -- legally , morally , politically , and militarily . He caused any peaceful opposition to him , which began in 2011 as part of the Arab Spring , to become militarized . Without Assad using overwhelming force against his opposition , I do n't think Syria would have descended into all-out war . And since 2020 , the Assad government has systematically and consciously avoided any kind of genuine resolution of the conflict because the approach of the Syrian government is that the opposition has failed to win on the battlefield , and thus they will not be allowed to win at the negotiating table . <p> The Syrian government literally undermined and sabotaged every single initiative that was put forth , whether by the international community , or by the U.N . envoy , or by other regional powers . Assad believed that he won the war , and refused to compromise with the opposition . So Assad owns the catastrophe in Syria , and not only the war itself . You 're talking about almost five hundred thousand victims . You 're talking about the million injured , six million refugees , six or eight million displaced people . Between eighty and ninety per cent of the Syrian people are on the verge of starvation . So Assad 's culpability and responsibility are really not even questioned . He 's the head of the state . It 's a fundamental point , a foundational point . <p> If I 'm reading your voice correctly , despite what you have been saying about Assad , you do n't welcome what 's happened in the last week because you 're concerned that this latest advance could just mean more war and death for the people of Syria . <p> Absolutely . The Middle East does not really need another war zone . The tragedy of the Middle East is that you have a ceasefire in one place and another war zone in another place . And what we 're going to see in Syria now , and the reason I say " proxy war , " is that all these actors -- the opposition and Assad and even Iran -- may still view the conflict as existential . Syria is now going , again , back to square one . ? <p> Sign up for our daily newsletter to receive the best stories from The New Yorker . <p> Isaac Chotiner is a staff writer at The New Yorker , where he is the principal contributor to Q. &amp; A. , a series of interviews with public figures in politics , media , books , business , technology , and more . 
@@118426315 <p> FILE -- Glynis Johns is pictured in her New York dressing room on Jan , 12 , 1973 . ( AP Photo/Jerry Mosey , File ) <p> FILE -- As rescue efforts continue in the rubble of the World Trade Center in New York , President George W. Bush , left , stands with New York City firefighter Bob Beckwith on a burnt fire truck in front of the World Trade Center during a tour of the devastation , Sept. 13 , 2001 . ( AP Photo/Doug Mills , File ) <p> It was a murder case almost everyone had an opinion on . O.J. Simpson ' s " trial of the century " over the 1994 killings of his ex-wife and her friend bared divisions over race and law enforcement in America and brought an intersection of sports , crime , entertainment and class that was hard to turn away from . <p> In a controversial verdict , the football star-turned-actor was acquitted in the criminal trial but later found civilly liable in the deaths of Nicole Brown Simpson and Ronald Goldman . Years later , he served nine years in prison on unrelated charges . His death in April brought an end to a life that had become defined by scrutiny over the killings . <p> But he was just one of many influential and noteworthy people who died in 2024 . <p> Alexei Navalny , who died in prison in February , was a fierce political foe of Russian President Vladimir Putin , crusading against corruption and staging protests against the Kremlin . He had been jailed since 2021 when he returned to Russia to face certain arrest after recovering in Germany from nerve agent poisoning he blamed on the Kremlin . <p> Simpson was n't the only athlete with a complex legacy who died this year . Pete Rose , who died in September , was a career hits leader in baseball whose achievements were tarnished when it was revealed he gambled on games . Other noteworthy sports figures who died include : basketball players Jerry West and Dikembe Mutombo ; baseball players Willie Mays and Fernando Valenzuela ; and gymnastics coach Bela Karolyi . <p> The music industry lost a titan in producer Quincy Jones , who died in November . His many contributions included producing Michael Jackson 's " Thriller " album and working with hundreds of other musicians over a long and storied career . <p> Here is a roll call of some noteworthy figures who died in 2024 ( cause of death cited for younger people , if available ) : <p> <p> JANUARY <p> <p> Zvi Zamir , 98 . A former director of Israel 's Mossad spy service who warned that Israel was about to be attacked on the eve of the 1973 Mideast war . Jan. 2 . <p> Glynis Johns , 100 . A Tony Award-winning stage and screen star who played the mother opposite Julie Andrews in the classic movie " Mary Poppins " and introduced the world to the bittersweet standard-to-be " Send in the Clowns " by Stephen Sondheim . Jan. 4 . <p> David Soul , 80 . The actor-singer was a 1970s heartthrob who co-starred as the blond half of the crime-fighting duo " Starsky &amp; Hutch " and topped the music charts with the ballad " Do n't Give Up on Us . " Jan. 4 . <p> Franz Beckenbauer , 78 . He won the World Cup both as a player and coach and became one of Germany 's most beloved personalities with his easygoing charm . Jan. 7 . <p> Joyce Randolph , 99 . A veteran stage and television actor whose role as the savvy Trixie Norton on " The Honeymooners " provided the perfect foil to her dimwitted TV husband . Jan. 13 . <p> Jack Burke Jr. , 100 . He was the oldest living Masters champion and staged the greatest comeback ever at Augusta National for one of his two majors . Jan. 19 . <p> Marlena Shaw , 81 . The jazz and R&amp;B vocalist whose " California Soul " was one of the defining soul songs of the late 1960s . Jan. 19 . <p> Mary Weiss , 75 . The lead singer of the 1960s pop group the Shangri-Las , whose hits included " Leader of the Pack . " Jan. 19 . <p> Gigi Riva , 79 . The all-time leading goalscorer for Italy 's men 's national team was known as the " Rombo di Tuono " ( Rumble of Thunder ) . Jan. 22 . <p> Dexter Scott King , 62 . He dedicated much of his life to shepherding the civil rights legacy of his parents , the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr . and Coretta Scott King . Jan. 22 . <p> Charles Osgood , 91 . He anchored " CBS Sunday Morning " for more than two decades , was host of the long-running radio program " The Osgood File " and was referred to as CBS News ' poet-in-residence . Jan. 23 . <p> Melanie , 76 . The singer-songwriter who rose through the New York folk scene , performed at Woodstock and had a series of 1970s hits including the enduring cultural phenomenon " Brand New Key . " Jan. 23 . <p> Herbert Coward , 85 . He was known for his " Toothless Man " role in the movie " Deliverance . " Jan. 24 . Car crash . <p> Sandra Milo , 90 . An icon of Italian cinema who played a key role in Federico Fellini 's " 8 ? " and later became his muse . Jan. 29 . <p> Jean Carnahan , 90 . She became the first female senator to represent Missouri when she was appointed to replace her husband following his death . Jan. 30 . <p> Chita Rivera , 91 . The dynamic dancer , singer and actress who garnered 10 Tony nominations , winning twice , in a long Broadway career that forged a path for Latina artists and shrugged off a near-fatal car accident . Jan. 30 . <p> <p> FEBRUARY <p> <p> Carl Weathers , 76 . A former NFL linebacker who became a Hollywood action movie and comedy star , playing nemesis-turned-ally Apollo Creed in the " Rocky " movies , starring with Arnold Schwarzenegger in " Predator " and teaching golf in " Happy Gilmore . " Feb. 1 . <p> Ian Lavender , 77 . An actor who played a hapless Home Guard soldier in the classic British sitcom " Dad 's Army . " Feb. 2 . <p> Hage Geingob , 82 . Namibia 's president and founding prime minister who played a central role in what has become one of Africa 's most stable democracies after returning from a long exile in Botswana and the United States as an anti-apartheid activist . Feb. 4 . <p> Bob Beckwith , 91 . A retired firefighter whose chance encounter with the president amid the rubble of ground zero became part of an iconic image of American unity after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks . Feb. 4 . <p> Toby Keith , 62 . A hit country crafter of pro-American anthems who both riled up critics and was loved by millions of fans . Feb. 5 . Stomach cancer . <p> John Bruton , 76 . A former Irish prime minister who played a key role in bringing peace to Northern Ireland . Feb. 6 . <p> Sebasti ? n Pi ? era , 74 . The two-time former president of Chile faced social upheaval followed by a pandemic in his second term . Feb. 6 . Helicopter crash . <p> Seiji Ozawa , 88 . The Japanese conductor amazed audiences with the lithe physicality of his performances during three decades at the helm of the Boston Symphony Orchestra . Feb. 6 . <p> Henry Fambrough , 85 . The last surviving original member of the iconic R&amp;B group The Spinners , whose hits included " It 's a Shame , " " Could It Be I 'm Falling in Love " and " The Rubberband Man . " Feb. 7 . <p> Robert Badinter , 95 . He spearheaded the drive to abolish France 's death penalty , campaigned against antisemitism and Holocaust denial , and led a European body dealing with the legal fallout of Yugoslavia 's breakup . Feb. 9 . <p> Bob Edwards , 76 . He anchored National Public Radio 's " Morning Edition " for just under 25 years and was the baritone voice who told many Americans what had happened while they slept . Feb. 10 . <p> Hirotake Yano , 80 . He founded the retail chain Daiso known for its 100-yen shops , Japan 's equivalent of the dollar store . Feb. 12 . <p> Alexei Navalny , 47 . The fiercest foe of Russian President Vladimir Putin who crusaded against official corruption and staged massive anti-Kremlin protests . Feb. 16 . <p> Hydeia Broadbent , 39 . The HIV/AIDS activist came to national prominence in the 1990s as a young child for her inspirational talks to reduce the stigma surrounding the virus she was born with . Feb. 20 . <p> Jacob Rothschild , 87 . The financier and philanthropist was part of the renowned Rothschild banking dynasty . Feb. 26 . <p> Richard Lewis , 76 . An acclaimed comedian known for exploring his neuroses in frantic , stream-of-consciousness diatribes while dressed in all-black , leading to his nickname " The Prince of Pain . " Feb. 27 . <p> Nikolai Ryzhkov , 94 . A former Soviet prime minister who presided over botched efforts to shore up the crumbling national economy in the final years of the USSR . Feb. 28 . <p> Brian Mulroney , 84 . The former Canadian prime minister forged close ties with two Republican U.S. presidents through a sweeping free trade agreement that was once vilified but is now celebrated . Feb. 29 . <p> <p> MARCH <p> <p> Iris Apfel , 102 . A textile expert , interior designer and fashion celebrity known for her eccentric style . March 1 . <p> Akira Toriyama , 68 . The creator of the best-selling Dragon Ball and other popular anime who influenced Japanese comics . March 1 . Blood clot . <p> Chris Mortensen , 72 . The award-winning journalist covered the NFL for close to four decades , including 32 as a senior analyst at ESPN . March 3 . <p> David E. Harris , 89 . He flew bombers for the U.S. military and broke barriers in 1964 when he became the first Black pilot hired at a major U.S. airline . March 8 . <p> Eric Carmen , 74 . The singer-songwriter fronted the power-pop 1970s band the Raspberries and later had soaring pop hits like " All by Myself " and " Hungry Eyes " from the hit " Dirty Dancing " soundtrack . March 11 . <p> Paul Alexander , 78 . A Texas man who spent most of his life using an iron lung chamber and built a large following on social media , recounting his life from contracting polio in the 1940s to earning a law degree . March 11 . <p> David Mixner , 77 . A longtime LGBTQ+ activist who was an adviser to Bill Clinton during his presidential campaign and later called him out over the " Do n't Ask , Do n't Tell " policy regarding gay , lesbian , bisexual , transgender or queer personnel in the military . March 11 . <p> M. Emmet Walsh , 88 . The character actor brought his unmistakable face and unsettling presence to films including " Blood Simple " and " Blade Runner . " March 19 . <p> Lou Whittaker , 95 . A legendary American mountaineer who helped lead ascents of Mount Everest , K2 and Denali , and who taught generations of climbers during his more than 250 trips up Mount Rainier , the tallest peak in Washington state . March 24 . <p> Joe Lieberman , 82 . The former U.S. senator of Connecticut nearly won the vice presidency on the Democratic ticket with Al Gore in the disputed 2000 election and almost became Republican John McCain 's running mate eight years later . March 27 . Complications from a fall . <p> Louis Gossett Jr. , 87 . The first Black man to win a supporting actor Oscar and an Emmy winner for his role in the seminal TV miniseries " Roots . " March 28 . <p> William D. Delahunt , 82 . The longtime Massachusetts congressman was a Democratic stalwart who postponed his retirement from Washington to help pass former President Barack Obama 's legislative agenda . March 30 . <p> Chance Perdomo , 27 . An actor who rose to fame as a star of " Chilling Adventures of Sabrina " and " Gen V. " March 29 . Motorcycle crash . <p> Barbara Rush , 97 . A popular leading actor in the 1950s and 1960s who co-starred with Frank Sinatra , Paul Newman and other top film performers and later had a thriving TV career . March 31 . <p> <p> APRIL <p> <p> Lou Conter , 102 . The last living survivor of the USS Arizona battleship that exploded and sank during the Japanese bombing of Pearl Harbor . April 1 . <p> John Sinclair , 82 . A poet , music producer and counterculture figure whose lengthy prison sentence after a series of small-time pot busts inspired a John Lennon song and a star-studded 1971 concert to free him . April 2 . <p> The Rev. Cecil L. " Chip " Murray , 94 . An influential pastor and civil rights leader who used his tenure at one of Los Angeles ' oldest churches to uplift the predominantly Black neighborhoods following one of the country 's worst race riots . April 5 . <p> Peter Higgs , 94 . The Nobel prize-winning physicist proposed the existence of the so-called " God particle " that helped explain how matter formed after the Big Bang . April 8 . <p> Ralph Puckett Jr. , 97 . A retired Army colonel awarded the Medal of Honor seven decades after he was wounded leading a company of outnumbered Army Rangers in battle during the Korean War . April 8 . <p> O.J. Simpson , 76 . The decorated football superstar and Hollywood actor who was acquitted of charges he killed his former wife and her friend but later found liable in a separate civil trial . April 10 . <p> William Strickland , 87 . A longtime civil rights activist and supporter of the Black Power movement who worked with Malcolm X and other prominent leaders in the 1960s . April 10 . <p> Robert MacNeil , 93 . He created the even-handed , no-frills PBS newscast " The MacNeil-Lehrer NewsHour " in the 1970s and co-anchored the show with his late partner , Jim Lehrer , for two decades . April 12 . <p> Faith Ringgold , 93 . An award-winning author and artist who broke down barriers for Black female artists and became famous for her richly colored and detailed quilts combining painting , textiles and storytelling . April 12 . <p> Carl Erskine , 97 . He pitched two no-hitters as a mainstay on the Brooklyn Dodgers and was a 20-game winner in 1953 when he struck out a then-record 14 in the World Series . April 16 . <p> Bob Graham , 87 . A former U.S. senator and two-term Florida governor who gained national prominence as chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee in the aftermath of the 2001 terrorist attacks and as an early critic of the Iraq war . April 16 . <p> Dickey Betts , 80 . The guitar legend who co-founded the Allman Brothers Band and wrote their biggest hit , " Ramblin ' Man . " April 18 . <p> Roman Gabriel , 83 . The first Filipino-American quarterback in the NFL and the league MVP in 1969 . April 20 . <p> Terry Anderson , 76 . The globe-trotting Associated Press correspondent became one of America 's longest-held hostages after he was snatched from a street in war-torn Lebanon in 1985 and held for nearly seven years . April 21 . <p> William Laws Calley Jr. , 80 . As an Army lieutenant , he led the U.S. soldiers who killed hundreds of Vietnamese civilians in the My Lai massacre , the most notorious war crime in modern American military history . April 28 . <p> Duane Eddy , 86 . A pioneering guitar hero whose reverberating electric sound on instrumentals such as " Rebel Rouser " and " Peter Gunn " helped put the twang in early rock ' n ' roll and influenced George Harrison , Bruce Springsteen and countless others . April 30 . <p> <p> MAY <p> <p> Dick Rutan , 85 . He , along with copilot Jeana Yeager , completed one of the greatest milestones in aviation history : the first round-the-world flight with no stops or refueling . May 3 . <p> Jeannie Epper , 83 . A groundbreaking performer who did stunts for many of the most important women of film and television action of the 1970s and ' 80s , including star Lynda Carter on TV 's " Wonder Woman . " May 5 . <p> Bernard Hill , 79 . An actor who delivered a rousing cry before leading his people into battle in " The Lord of the Rings : The Return of the King " and went down with the ship as the captain in " Titanic . " May 5 . <p> Steve Albini , 61 . An alternative rock pioneer and legendary producer who shaped the musical landscape through his work with Nirvana , the Pixies , PJ Harvey and more . May 7 . <p> Kim Ki Nam , 94 . A North Korean propaganda chief who helped build personality cults around the country 's three dynastic leaders . May 7 . <p> Ralph Kennedy Frasier , 85 . The last surviving member of a trio of African American youths who were the first to desegregate the undergraduate student body at North Carolina 's flagship public university in the 1950s . May 8 . <p> Roger Corman , 98 . The " King of the Bs " helped turn out such low-budget classics as " Little Shop of Horrors " and " Attack of the Crab Monsters " and gave many of Hollywood 's most famous actors and directors early breaks . May 9 . <p> Alice Munro , 92 . The Nobel laureate was a Canadian literary giant who became one of the world 's most esteemed contemporary authors and one of history 's most honored short story writers . May 13 . <p> Dabney Coleman , 92 . The mustachioed character actor who specialized in smarmy villains like the chauvinist boss in " 9 to 5 " and the nasty TV director in " Tootsie . " May 16 . <p> Peter Buxtun , 86 . The whistleblower who revealed that the U.S. government allowed hundreds of Black men in rural Alabama to go untreated for syphilis in what became known as the Tuskegee study . May 18 . <p> Ebrahim Raisi , 63 . The Iranian president was a hard-line protege of the country 's supreme leader who helped oversee the mass executions of thousands in 1988 and later led the country as it enriched uranium near weapons-grade levels , launched a major attack on Israel and experienced mass protests . May 19 . Helicopter crash . <p> Hossein Amirabdollahian , 60 . Iran 's foreign minister and a hard-liner close to the paramilitary Revolutionary Guard who confronted the West while also overseeing indirect talks with the U.S. over the country 's nuclear program . May 19 . Helicopter crash . <p> Ivan F. Boesky , 87 . The flamboyant stock trader whose cooperation with the government cracked open one of the largest insider trading scandals in the history of Wall Street . May 20 . <p> Morgan Spurlock , 53 . The documentary filmmaker and Oscar nominee whose most famous works skewered America 's food industry and who notably ate only at McDonald 's for a month to illustrate the dangers of a fast-food diet . May 23 . Complications of cancer . <p> Bill Walton , 71 . He starred for John Wooden 's UCLA Bruins before becoming a Hall of Fame center for his NBA career and one of the biggest stars in basketball broadcasting . May 27 . <p> Robert Pickton , 74 . A Canadian serial killer who took female victims to his pig farm during a crime spree near Vancouver in the late 1990s and early 2000s . May 31 . Injuries from a prison assault involving another inmate . <p> <p> JUNE <p> <p> Tin Oo , 97 . One of the closest associates of Myanmar 's ousted leader Aung San Suu Kyi as well as a co-founder of her National League for Democracy party . June 1 . <p> Janis Paige , 101 . A popular actor in Hollywood and in Broadway musicals and comedies who danced with Fred Astaire , toured with Bob Hope and continued to perform into her 90s . June 2 . <p> David Levy , 86 . An Israeli politician born in Morocco who fought tirelessly against deep-seated racism against Jews from North Africa and went on to serve as foreign minister and hold other senior governmental posts . June 2 . <p> Brigitte Bierlein , 74 . The former head of Austria 's Constitutional Court became the country 's first female chancellor in an interim government in 2019 . June 3 . <p> Paul Pressler , 94 . A leading figure of the Southern Baptist Convention who was accused of sexually abusing boys and young men and later settled a lawsuit over the allegations . June 7 . <p> The Rev. James Lawson Jr. , 95 . An apostle of nonviolent protest who schooled activists to withstand brutal reactions from white authorities as the Civil Rights Movement gained traction . June 9 . <p> Lynn Conway , 86 . A pioneer in the design of microchips that are at the heart of consumer electronics who overcame discrimination as a transgender person . June 9 . <p> Fran ? oise Hardy , 80 . A French singing legend and pop icon since the 1960s . June 11 . <p> Jerry West , 86 . Selected to the Basketball Hall of Fame three times in a storied career as a player and executive , his silhouette is considered to be the basis of the NBA logo . June 12 . <p> George Nethercutt , 79 . The former U.S. congressman was a Spokane lawyer with limited political experience when he ousted Democratic Speaker of the House Tom Foley as part of a stunning GOP wave that shifted national politics to the right in 1994 . June 14 . <p> Kazuko Shiraishi , 93 . A leading name in modern Japanese " beat " poetry , she was known for her dramatic readings -- at times with jazz music . June 14 . <p> Willie Mays , 93 . The electrifying " Say Hey Kid " whose singular combination of talent , drive and exuberance made him one of baseball 's greatest and most beloved players . June 18 . <p> Anouk Aim ? e , 92 . The radiant French star and dark-eyed beauty of classic films including Federico Fellini 's " La Dolce Vita " and Claude Lelouch 's " A Man and a Woman . " June 18 . <p> Donald Sutherland , 88 . The Canadian actor whose wry , arresting screen presence spanned more than half a century of films from " M.A.S.H . " to " The Hunger Games . " June 20 . <p> Bill Cobbs , 90 . The veteran character actor became a ubiquitous and sage screen presence as an older man . June 25 . <p> Martin Mull , 80 . His droll , esoteric comedy and acting made him a hip sensation in the 1970s and later a beloved guest star on sitcoms including " Roseanne " and " Arrested Development . " June 27 . <p> P ? l Enger , 57 . A talented Norwegian soccer player turned celebrity art thief who pulled off the sensational 1994 heist of Edvard Munch 's famed " The Scream " painting from the National Gallery in Oslo . June 29 . <p> <p> JULY <p> <p> Jim Inhofe , 89 . A powerful fixture in Oklahoma politics for over six decades , the Republican U.S. senator was a conservative known for his strong support of defense spending and his denial that human activity is responsible for the bulk of climate change . July 9 . <p> Joe Bonsall , 76 . A Grammy award winner and celebrated tenor of the country and gospel group the Oak Ridge Boys . July 9 . <p> Tommy Robinson , 82 . A former U.S. congressman who gained notoriety as an Arkansas sheriff for tactics that included chaining inmates outside a state prison to protest overcrowding . July 10 . <p> Shelley Duvall , 75 . The intrepid , Texas-born movie star whose wide-eyed , winsome presence was a mainstay in the films of Robert Altman and who co-starred in Stanley Kubrick 's " The Shining . " July 11 . <p> Shannen Doherty , 53 . The " Beverly Hills , 90210 " star whose life and career were roiled by illness and tabloid stories . July 13 . <p> Richard Simmons , 76 . He was television 's hyperactive court jester of physical fitness who built a mini-empire in his trademark tank tops and short shorts by urging the overweight to exercise and eat better . July 13 . <p> James Sikking , 90 . He starred as a hardened police lieutenant on " Hill Street Blues " and as the titular character 's kindhearted dad on " Doogie Howser , M.D. " July 13 . <p> Bob Newhart , 94 . The deadpan **26;3345;TOOLONG became one of the most popular TV stars of his time after striking gold with a classic comedy album . July 18 . <p> Lou Dobbs , 78 . The conservative political pundit and veteran cable TV host was a founding anchor for CNN and later was a nightly presence on Fox Business Network for more than a decade . July 18 . <p> Nguyen Phu Trong , 80 . He was general secretary of Vietnam 's ruling Communist Party and the country 's most powerful politician . July 19 . <p> Sheila Jackson Lee , 74 . The longtime congresswoman from Texas helped lead federal efforts to protect women from domestic violence and recognize Juneteenth as a national holiday . July 19 . <p> Abdul " Duke " Fakir , 88 . The last surviving original member of the beloved Motown group the Four Tops , which was known for such hits as " Reach Out , I 'll Be There " and " Standing in the Shadows of Love . " July 22 . <p> Edna O'Brien , 93 . Ireland 's literary pride and outlaw scandalized her native land with her debut novel " The Country Girls " before gaining international acclaim as a storyteller and iconoclast that found her welcomed everywhere from Dublin to the White House . July 27 . <p> Francine Pascal , 92 . A onetime soap opera writer whose " Sweet Valley High " novels and the ongoing adventures of twins Elizabeth and Jessica Wakefield and other teens captivated millions of young readers . July 28 . <p> Betty Prashker , 99 . A pioneering editor of the 20th century who as one of the first women with the power to acquire books published such classics as Kate Millett 's " Sexual Politics " and Susan Faludi 's " Backlash " and helped oversee the careers of Jean Auel , Dominick Dunne and Erik Larson among others . July 30 . <p> Ismail Haniyeh , 62 . Hamas ' top leader in exile landed on Israel 's hit list after the militant group staged its surprise Oct. 7 attacks . July 31 . Killed in an airstrike in Iran . <p> <p> AUGUST <p> <p> Jack Russell , 63 . The lead singer of the bluesy ' 80s metal band Great White , whose hits included " Once Bitten Twice Shy " and " Rock Me , " and who was fronting his band the night 100 people died in a 2003 nightclub fire in Rhode Island . Aug. 7 . <p> Juan " Chi Chi " Rodriguez , 88 . A Hall of Fame golfer whose antics on the greens and inspiring life story made him among the sport 's most popular players during a long professional career . Aug. 8 . <p> Wallace " Wally " Amos , 88 . The creator of the Famous Amos cookie empire went on to become a children 's literacy advocate . Aug. 13 . <p> Gena Rowlands , 94 . She was hailed as one of the greatest actors to ever practice the craft and a guiding light in independent cinema as a star in groundbreaking movies by her director husband , John Cassavetes . She later charmed audiences in her son 's tear-jerker " The Notebook . " Aug. 14 . <p> Peter Marshall , 98 . The actor and singer turned game show host who played straight man to the stars for 16 years on " The Hollywood Squares . " Aug. 15 . <p> Alain Delon , 88 . The internationally acclaimed French actor embodied both the bad guy and the policeman and made hearts throb around the world . Aug. 18 . <p> Ruth Johnson Colvin , 107 . She founded Literacy Volunteers of America , was inducted into the National Women 's Hall of Fame and received the nation 's highest civilian award : the Presidential Medal of Freedom . Aug. 18 . <p> Al Attles , 87 . A Hall of Famer who coached the 1975 NBA champion Warriors and spent more than six decades with the organization as a player , general manager and most recently team ambassador . Aug. 20 . <p> John Amos , 84 . He starred as the family patriarch on the hit 1970s sitcom " Good Times " and earned an Emmy nomination for his role in the seminal 1977 miniseries " Roots . " Aug. 21 . <p> Salim Hoss , 94 . The five-time former Lebanese prime minister served during some of the most tumultuous years of his country 's modern history . Aug. 25 . <p> Leonard Riggio , 83 . A brash , self-styled underdog who transformed the publishing industry by building Barnes &amp; Noble into the country 's most powerful bookseller before it was overtaken by the rise of Amazon.com . Aug. 27 . <p> Edward B. Johnson , 81 . As a CIA officer , he traveled into Iran with a colleague to rescue six American diplomats who fled the 1979 U.S. Embassy takeover in Tehran . Aug. 27 . <p> Johnny Gaudreau , 31 . An NHL player known as " Johnny Hockey , " he played 10 full seasons in the league . Aug. 29 . Killed along with his brother when hit by a car while riding bicycles . <p> Fatman Scoop , 56 . The hip-hop artist topped charts in Europe with " Be Faithful " in the early 2000s and later lent his distinctive voice and ebullient vibe to hits by artists including Missy Elliott and Ciara . Aug. 30 . Died after collapsing on stage . <p> <p> SEPTEMBER <p> <p> Linda Deutsch , 80 . A special correspondent for The Associated Press who for nearly 50 years wrote glittering first drafts of history from many of the nation 's most significant criminal and civil trials including Charles Manson , O.J. Simpson and Michael Jackson . Sept. 1 . <p> James Darren , 88 . A teen idol who helped ignite the 1960s surfing craze as a charismatic beach boy paired off with Sandra Dee in the hit film " Gidget . " Sept. 2 . <p> James Earl Jones , 93 . He overcame racial prejudice and a severe stutter to become a celebrated icon of stage and screen , eventually lending his deep , commanding voice to CNN , " The Lion King " and Darth Vader . Sept. 9 . <p> Frankie Beverly , 77 . With his band Maze , he inspired generations of fans with his smooth , soulful voice and lasting anthems including " Before I Let Go . " Sept. 10 . <p> Jim Sasser , 87 . He served 18 years in the U.S. Senate and six years as ambassador to China . Sept. 10 . <p> Alberto Fujimori , 86 . His decade-long presidency began with triumphs righting Peru 's economy and defeating a brutal insurgency only to end in autocratic excess that later sent him to prison . Sept. 11 . <p> Joe Schmidt , 92 . The Hall of Fame linebacker who helped the Detroit Lions win NFL championships in 1953 and 1957 and later coached the team . Sept. 11 . <p> Tito Jackson , 70 . One of the brothers who made up the beloved pop group the Jackson 5 . Sept. 15 . <p> John David " JD " Souther , 78 . A prolific songwriter and musician who helped shape the country-rock sound that took root in Southern California in the 1970s with his collaborations with the Eagles and Linda Ronstadt . Sept. 17 . <p> Kathryn Crosby , 90 . She appeared in such movies as " The 7th Voyage of Sinbad " , " Anatomy of a Murder , " and " Operation Mad Ball " before marrying famed singer and Oscar-winning actor Bing Crosby . Sept. 20 . <p> John Ashton , 76 . The veteran character actor who memorably played the gruff but lovable police detective John Taggart in the " Beverly Hills Cop " films . Sept. 26 . <p> Maggie Smith , 89 . The masterful , scene-stealing actor who won an Oscar for the 1969 film " The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie " and gained new fans in the 21st century as the dowager Countess of Grantham in " Downton Abbey " and Professor Minerva McGonagall in the Harry Potter films . Sept. 27 . <p> Hassan Nasrallah , 64 . The Hezbollah leader who transformed the Lebanese militant group into a potent paramilitary and political force in the Middle East . Sept. 27 . Killed in an Israeli airstrike . <p> Kris Kristofferson , 88 . A Rhodes scholar with a deft writing style and rough charisma who became a country music superstar and an A-list Hollywood actor . Sept. 28 . <p> Drake Hogestyn , 70 . The " Days of Our Lives " star appeared on the show for 38 years . Sept. 28 . <p> Pete Rose , 83 . Baseball 's career hits leader and fallen idol who undermined his historic achievements and Hall of Fame dreams by gambling on the game he loved and once embodied . Sept. 30 . <p> Dikembe Mutombo , 58 . A Basketball Hall of Famer who was one of the best defensive players in NBA history and a longtime global ambassador for the game . Sept. 30 . Brain cancer . <p> Humberto Ortega , 77 . The Nicaraguan guerrilla fighter and a Sandinista defense minister who later in life became a critic of his older brother President Daniel Ortega . Sept. 30 . <p> Ken Page , 70 . A stage and screen actor who starred alongside Beyonc ? in " Dreamgirls , " introduced Broadway audiences to Old Deuteronomy in " Cats " and scared generations of kids as the voice of Oogie Boogie , the villain of the 1993 animated holiday film " The Nightmare Before Christmas . " Sept. 30 . <p> <p> OCTOBER <p> <p> Megan Marshack , 70 . An aide to Nelson Rockefeller who was with the former New York governor and vice president when he died under circumstances that spurred intense speculation . Oct. 2 . <p> Mimis Plessas , 99 . A beloved Greek composer whose music was featured in scores of films , television shows and theatrical productions and who provided the soundtrack to millions of Greeks ' lives . Oct. 5 . <p> Cissy Houston , 91 . A two-time Grammy-winning soul and gospel artist who sang with Aretha Franklin , Elvis Presley and other stars and knew triumph and heartbreak as the mother of singer Whitney Houston . Oct. 7 . <p> Tim Johnson , 77 . The former U.S. senator was the last Democrat to hold statewide office in South Dakota and was adept at securing federal funding for projects back home during his nearly three decades in Washington . Oct. 8 . <p> Ratan Tata , 86 . One of India 's most influential business leaders , the veteran industrialist was former chairman of the $100 billion conglomerate Tata Group . Oct. 9 . <p> Leif Segerstam , 80 . The prolific Finnish conductor and composer was one of the most colorful personalities in the Nordic country 's classical music scene . Oct. 9 . <p> Ethel Kennedy , 96 . The wife of Sen. Robert F. Kennedy raised their 11 children after he was assassinated and remained dedicated to social causes and the family 's legacy for decades thereafter . Oct. 10 . <p> Lilly Ledbetter , 86 . A former Alabama factory manager whose lawsuit against her employer made her an icon of the equal pay movement and led to landmark wage discrimination legislation . Oct. 12 . <p> Liam Payne , 31 . A former One Direction singer whose chart-topping British boy band generated a global following of swooning fans . Oct. 16 . Died after falling from a hotel balcony . <p> Yahya Sinwar , 61 . The Hamas leader who masterminded the surprise Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack into southern Israel that shocked the world and triggered the longest , deadliest and most destructive war in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . Oct. 16 . Killed by Israeli forces in Gaza . <p> Mitzi Gaynor , 93 . The effervescent dancer and actor starred as Nellie Forbush in the 1958 film " South Pacific " and appeared in other musicals with Bing Crosby , Frank Sinatra and Gene Kelly . Oct. 17 . <p> Vasso Papandreou , 79 . A trailblazing Greek politician who served as a government minister , European commissioner and leading advocate for women 's representation in politics . Oct. 17 . <p> Thelma Mothershed Wair , 83 . One of nine Black students who integrated a high school in Arkansas ' capital city of Little Rock in 1957 while a mob of white segregationists yelled threats and insults . Oct. 19 . <p> Fethullah G ? len , 83 . A reclusive U.S.-based Islamic cleric who inspired a global social movement while facing unproven accusations that he masterminded a failed 2016 coup in his native Turkey . Oct. 20 . <p> Fernando Valenzuela , 63 . The Mexican-born phenom for the Los Angeles Dodgers who inspired " Fernandomania " while winning the NL Cy Young Award and Rookie of the Year in 1981 . Oct. 22 . <p> The Rev. Gustavo Guti ? rrez , 96 . The Peruvian theologian was the father of the social justice-centered liberation theology that the Vatican once criticized for its Marxist undercurrents . Oct. 22 . <p> Phil Lesh , 84 . A classically trained violinist and jazz trumpeter who found his true calling by reinventing the role of rock bass guitar as a founding member of the Grateful Dead . Oct. 25 . <p> Quincy Jones , 91 . The multi-talented music titan whose vast legacy ranged from producing Michael Jackson 's historic " Thriller " album to writing prize-winning film and television scores and collaborating with Frank Sinatra , Ray Charles and hundreds of other recording artists . Nov. 3 . <p> Bernard " Bernie " Marcus , 95 . The co-founder of The Home Depot , a billionaire philanthropist , and a big Republican donor . Nov. 4 . <p> Murray Sinclair , 73 . A former First Nation judge , senator and chair of the commission that delved into Canada 's troubled history of residential schools for First Nations students . Nov. 4 . <p> Tony Todd , 69 . An actor known for his haunting portrayal of a killer in the horror film " Candyman " and for roles in many other films and television shows . Nov. 6 . <p> Bobby Allison , 86 . He was founder of racing 's " Alabama Gang " and a NASCAR Hall of Famer . Nov. 9 . <p> Reg Murphy , 90 . A renowned journalist whose newsgathering career included stints as an editor and top executive at newspapers in Atlanta , San Francisco and Baltimore -- and who found himself the subject of national headlines when he survived a politically motivated kidnapping . Nov. 9 . <p> Vardis J. Vardinoyannis , 90 . A powerful and pivotal figure in Greek shipping and energy who survived a terrorist attack and cultivated close ties with the Kennedy family . Nov. 12 . <p> Timothy West , 90 . A British actor who played the classic Shakespeare roles of King Lear and Macbeth and who in recent years along with his wife , Prunella Scales , enchanted millions of people with their boating exploits on Britain 's waterways . Nov. 12 . <p> Song Jae-lim , 39 . A South Korean actor known for his roles in K-dramas " Moon Embracing the Sun " and " Queen Woo . " Nov. 12 . <p> Shuntaro Tanikawa , 92 . He pioneered modern Japanese poetry -- poignant but conversational in its divergence from haiku and other traditions . Nov. 13 . <p> Bela Karolyi , 82 . The charismatic , if polarizing , gymnastics coach turned young women into champions and the United States into an international power in the sport . Nov. 15 . <p> Olav Thon , 101 . A billionaire entrepreneur recognizable for his bright red cap who went from selling leather and fox hides in his youth to building one of Norway 's biggest real estate empires . Nov. 16 . <p> Fred Harris , 94 . A former U.S. senator from Oklahoma , presidential hopeful and populist who championed Democratic Party reforms in the turbulent 1960s . Nov. 23 . <p> Chuck Woolery , 83 . The affable , smooth-talking game show host of " Wheel of Fortune , " " Love Connection " and " Scrabble " who later became a right-wing podcaster , skewering liberals and accusing the government of lying about COVID-19 . Nov. 23 . <p> Barbara Taylor Bradford , 91 . A British journalist who became a publishing sensation in her 40s with the saga " A Woman of Substance " and wrote more than a dozen other novels that sold tens of millions of copies . Nov. 24. 
@@118454312 <p> Hamas planned to " neutralize " the remaining Israeli hostages if Israel launched a rescue mission to free them -- and the terrorist group believed such a move was imminent . <p> In a Nov. 22 internal statement reviewed Wednesday by Reuters , Hamas said it believed Israel was about to stage an operation like the June attack at Gaza 's Nuseirat camp that freed four hostages grabbed during Hamas ' sneak attack Oct. 7 . <p> Harrowing video released Wednesday shows five female Israeli soldiers being lined up by Hamas terrorists after they were taken hostage on Oct. 7 <p> But if any such assault happened , Hamas advised its operatives to " activate neutralization orders ... as an immediate and swift response to any adventure by the enemy . " <p> The memo also told militants not to consider the repercussions of following the instructions , since it held Israel squarely responsible for the fate of its hostages . <p> Hamas captors likely did something similar in February , when they shot dead six hostages after an Israeli airstrike hit a few hundred yards from the underground tunnel in Khan Younis where they were hidden , according to the New York Times . <p> Edan Alexander , an Israeli-American hostage also kidnapped on Oct. 7 , pleads for President-elect Donald Trump to secure his release in this screen grab taken from a Hamas video last week . Hamas Military Wing/Handout <p> Although Israel did n't respond to the threat , Defense Minister Israel Katz said this week that pressure on Hamas was ratcheting up and his country would " really be able to advance a hostage deal . " <p> The Gaza campaign -- now in its second year -- is retribution for the Oct. 7 attacks in which Hamas fighters vaulted the armed border and struck Israeli communities , killing 1,200 and seizing 250 hostages . <p> Since then , Israel 's military has reduced to rubble much of the enclave , killed more than 44,500 Palestinians and injured many others , according to Palestinian estimates . <h> Video <p> Harrowing video released Wednesday shows five female Israeli soldiers being lined up by Hamas terrorists after they were taken hostage on Oct. 7 <p> Hostages abducted by Hamas on Oct. 7 , 2023 , are handed over by Hamas militants as part of a prisoner swap with Israel . via REUTERS <p> Edan Alexander , an Israeli-American hostage also kidnapped on Oct. 7 , pleads for President-elect Donald Trump to secure his release in this screen grab taken from a Hamas video last week . Hamas Military Wing/Handout 
@@118454314 <h> Families of Israeli hostages beg Trump to set ultimatum for release , get tough with allies <p> The families of seven Israel hostages begged President-elect Donald Trump to put his foot down and get their loved ones released -- even if it means getting tough with US allies . <p> Trump , set to return to office Jan. 20 , should exert pressure on countries in the Middle East such as Qatar to end the hostages ' lengthy imprisonments , the families said in a joint letter dated Tuesday . <p> " We urge you to call your colleague , the Emir of Qatar , Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani , force him to come to the table TODAY and demand an end to these games , " the letter stated . <p> The families of 7 hostages urged President-elect Donald Trump to use his influence to bring their loved ones home , in a letter addressed to the former and next commander in chief . REUTERS <p> " We need a simple American deal with Hamas left in its shadow : Hamas must immediately announce the release of all the living and dead hostages without any conditions and surrender or all Hamas leaders be immediately deported from the country and will no longer be safe anywhere in the world , " the family members added . <p> " This is how the war with a terrorist organization in Gaza should end . This is how your term in the White House should begin . " <p> In a letter addressing Trump , it mentions , " We urge you to call your colleague , the Emir of Qatar , Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani , force him to come to the table TODAY and demand an end to these games . " LP Media <p> Meanwhile , Hamas released a disturbing video of hostage Edan Alexander on Nov. 30 , indicating the 21-year Tenafly , New Jersey resident was still alive and providing his parents a glimmer of hope he will be released . <p> The letter was sent a day after Israel confirmed that Israeli-US soldier Omer Neutra , 21 , was killed by Hamas terrorists during the Oct. 7 , 2023 , terrorist attack . REUTERS <p> The family members said , " You promised to restore order in the simplest and most obvious way -- and make America great again . Now , please do the same for us . " <p> " Symbolically , this year Christmas and the first day of Hanukkah fall on the same day . We look forward to the miracle of Christmas and the miracle of Hanukkah for us and implore you to ensure we see light for our loved ones . " <p> The Post reached out to Trump for comment . <p> He previously warned on social media there would be " all hell to pay " if all of the hostages are n't freed by his inauguration next month . <h> Video <h> Now on Decider <p> The families of 7 hostages urged President-elect Donald Trump to use his influence to bring their loved ones home , in a letter addressed to the former and next commander in chief . REUTERS <p> In a letter addressing Trump , it mentions , " We urge you to call your colleague , the Emir of Qatar , Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani , force him to come to the table TODAY and demand an end to these games . " LP Media <p> The letter was sent a day after Israel confirmed that Israeli-US soldier Omer Neutra , 21 , was killed by Hamas terrorists during the Oct. 7 , 2023 , terrorist attack . REUTERS 
@@118456403 <h> At least 50 people killed in Israeli strikes on homes , camps in Gaza <p> Palestinians collect belongings at the site of an Israeli strike on a house in Deir el-Balah in the central &lt;span&gt;Gaza Strip&lt;/span&gt; Ramadan Abed/Reuters <p> Published On 4 Dec 20244 Dec 2024 <p> At least 50 people have been killed in Israeli air strikes across Gaza , Palestinian medics say , as Israeli tanks push into northern parts of the Khan Younis area in southern Gaza . <p> Medics said at least 20 people were killed and others wounded in an Israeli attack on Wednesday on a tent encampment in al-Mawasi near Khan Younis . The Palestinian Civil Defence said the attack set several tents housing displaced families ablaze . <p> Al Jazeera 's Hani Mahmoud , reporting from Deir el-Balah in central Gaza , said the death toll was expected to rise . <p> Patients who are in the hospital were " expected to lose their lives simply because there is no medical care , medical supplies and insufficient medical staff , " Mahmoud said . <p> " This is not the first time we 've seen this happening . There 's a growing frustration among the displaced population in the al-Mawasi evacuation zone , " he said . " The Israeli military ordered them in the initial weeks of this genocidal war to evacuate in order to avoid being bombed , but they repeatedly find themselves the victims of these unpredictable attacks . " <p> Advertisement <p> At least 10 people were killed in an Israeli air strike that hit three houses in Gaza City , the Civil Defence said . Many victims were still trapped under the rubble with rescue operations under way . <p> Medics said 11 people were killed in three air strikes on areas in central Gaza , including six children and a medic . Five of the dead had been queueing outside a bakery , they said . <p> A further nine Palestinians were killed by tank fire in Rafah near the border with Egypt , medics said . <h> ' Extremely urgent ' <p> Israeli forces also fired on Kamal Adwan Hospital in Beit Lahiya in northern Gaza for the fifth straight day , hospital Director Hussam Abu Safiya said . Three of his medical staff had been wounded , one critically , on Tuesday night , he said . <p> He said more than 100 patients inside the besieged hospital are at risk of death and Israeli forces are preventing access to the nearby al-Awda Hospital . <p> Residents in the north 's main three towns -- Jabalia , Beit Lahiya and Beit Hanoon -- said Israeli forces have blown up dozens of houses . <p> Palestinians said Israel 's army is trying to drive people out of the northern edge of Gaza by issuing threats that if residents do not flee , they risk death and by carrying out bombardments to create a buffer zone . The Israeli military has besieged the area since it began a renewed ground offensive there nearly two months ago . <p> Advertisement <p> The siege has worsened an already dire humanitarian crisis amid a looming famine . <p> Hamas said the bombings of homes in Beit Lahiya and the targeting of Kamal Adwan Hospital are " an insistence on the ongoing war " and " genocide " in Gaza . <p> The group said in a statement that Israel is showing it plans to keep disregarding international law " in light of the shameful failure of the international system to put an end to these horrific crimes " . <p> Hamas said Israeli actions " are carried out under the full cover and protection of the American administration and some Western capitals " . <p> In the Khan Younis area , residents told the Reuters news agency that Israeli tanks advanced a day after the military issued new evacuation threats , saying there had been rocket launches by Palestinian groups from the area . <p> With shells crashing near residential areas , families left their homes on Wednesday and headed westwards towards al-Mawasi , which was designated by the Israeli military as a " safe zone " but has since repeatedly come under attack . <p> Palestinian and United Nations officials said there are no safe areas left in Gaza and almost all of its 2.3 million residents have been displaced multiple times . <p> Israel 's military campaign has killed more than 44,500 Palestinians , injured many others and reduced much of the enclave to rubble since it began in October last year . <p> Israel agreed to a ceasefire with the Lebanese armed group Hezbollah last week that has halted most fighting in a conflict that has unfolded in Lebanon in parallel with the Gaza war . <p> Advertisement <p> But the war in Gaza has ground on with only a single ceasefire more than a year ago that lasted for one week . 
@@118456514 <h> The Beckhams Were Surprise Guests at the Palace <p> ByEmily Leibert , a morning blogger for the Cutwho specializes in coverage at the intersection of gender and sports , the arts , and our relationship to our bodies <p> Photo : Getty Images <p> I guess if you 're David and Victoria Beckham , the queen ( consort ) really will see you now . On Tuesday , the king and queen of posh took a little trip to visit the king and queen of England at Buckingham Palace , where they held hands and matched in black formalwear . Per Us Weekly , the Beckhams were on hand for a royal-family-hosted state banquet , held in honor of Qatar 's Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani -- the country 's monarch and head of state known as the Emir . <p> According to the tabloid , the Beckhams were n't accounted for on the invite list distributed to press , causing somewhat of a stir upon their arrival . The rest of the guest list marked a who 's who of England 's most distinguished cultural and diplomatic VIPs , including British politician Kemi Badenoch and Paris Saint-Germain football-club president Nasser Al-Khelaifi , who were reportedly seated next to the Beckhams . I wonder what they talked about . Presumably not Qatar 's history of human-rights violations . Per the BBC , King Charles praised his guests for their " tireless mediation efforts over the past year in pursuit of peace " throughout the Gaza conflict , which the Emir has called a " collective genocide . " Everyone then broke bread during a 4,000-piece dinner service , featuring pheasant wrapped in Savoy cabbage , roasted celeriac pur ? e and potato gratin , and a Balmoral plum sorbet . <p> After suffering from a chest infection a month ago , Queen Camilla pulled through and made an appearance at dinner alongside King Charles . And though Kate Middleton has slowly resumed her public duties after recently wrapping up chemotherapy treatment , the princess of Wales was absent Tuesday night . She did , however , pop by the welcome procession earlier in the day alongside Prince William , where they greeted the Emir and his wife . <p> What a fun and totally relatable date night for Mr. and Mrs. Beckham . If the tabloids are to be believed , Meghan Markle is probably somewhere fuming. 
@@118462614 <p> A Palestinian health official said at least 21 people were killed Wednesday by an Israeli strike on a camp housing displaced people in Gaza . A spokesman for Gaza 's civil defense agency said five children were killed in the strike . <p> Atif Al-Hout , the director of Nasser Hospital in the southern city of Khan Younis , said at least 28 people were wounded . <p> The Israeli military said its aircraft struck senior Hamas militants involved in terrorist activities in the area . The military said that the strike had set off secondary explosions , indicating explosives present in the area were set off . It was not possible to independently confirm the Israeli claims , and the strike could also have ignited fuel , cooking gas canisters or other materials in the camp . <p> At least 15 bodies arrived at the hospital , but reaching a precise number was difficult because many of the dead were dismembered and some were badly burned . <p> The strike hit in the Muwasi area , a sprawling coastal camp housing hundreds of thousands of displaced people near Khan Younis . It came after Israeli forces struck targets in other areas of the Palestinian enclave . Earlier strikes on central Gaza killed eight people , including four children . <p> People run for cover as an explosion from an Israeli strike occurs near a makeshift camp for displaced Palestinians , in Mawasi Khan Yunis in the southern Gaza Strip on Dec. 4 , 2024 , amid the ongoing war between Israel and the Hamas militant group . Bashar Taleb/AFP via Getty Images <p> Israel 's war in Gaza began when Hamas-led militants attacked southern Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , killing some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and abducting around 250 people . Some 100 hostages are still inside Gaza , at least a third of whom are believed to be dead . <p> Israel 's offensive has killed over 44,500 Palestinians in Gaza , mostly women and children , according to the Gaza Health Ministry , which does not say how many were combatants . The Israeli military says it has killed over 17,000 militants , without providing evidence . <p> Israel says it tries to avoid harming civilians and blames Hamas for their deaths because the militants often operate in residential areas and are known to position tunnels , rocket launchers and other infrastructure near homes , schools and mosques. 
@@118468102 <h> A hearing will be held next Tuesday following the acceptance of a petition this Tuesday of a petition outlining allegations of discriminatory anti-Jewish hiring policies and practices . <p> People who took part in the protest remove the remnants of a protest encampment in support of Palestinians , that was broken down by police the previous night on the campus of University of California Los Angeles ( UCLA ) , in Los Angeles , California , US , May 2 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/CARLIN STIEHL ) <p> A petition alleging that the Cultural Affairs Commission of the University of California , Los Angeles Undergraduate Students Association Council actively avoided hiring Jews because of their assumed Zionist perspective was accepted by the USAC Judicial Board , according to a memorandum . <p> A preliminary hearing will be held on Tuesday for the petition filed by the editor-in-chief of Ha'Am , UCLA 's Jewish news magazine , Bella Brannon , on Monday against CAC Commissioner Alicia Verdugo.According to Ha'Am , the petition contended that every student who revealed their Jewish identity in their applications for CAC staff was rejected . One rejected applicant allegedly said they would need to observe Shabbat during the staff retreat , and another noted that as a Jew , one campus issue that was important to them was the right to express religious identity . <p> In an allegedly leaked internal communication published by Ha'Am , Verdugo allegedly warned subordinates that " lots of Zionists are applying -- please do your research when you look at applicants , and I will also share a document of a no-hire list during the retreat . " In another supposed leaked document , CAC laid out its hiring policy as reserving the right " to remove any staff member who dispels anti-blackness , colorism , racism , white supremacy , Zionism , xenophobia , homophobia , transphobia , sexism , misogyny , ableism , and any/all other hateful/bigoted ideologies . " Signs in support of Palestinians in Gaza are set up along with reinforcements to block the doorway of a building at an encampment after protesters were asked to leave by UCLA campus police at the University of California , Los Angeles , California , US , May 2 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/AUDE GUERRUCCI ) <p> Ha'Am noted that not only was the movement for the self-determination of the Jewish people in their historic homeland singled out among political movements to be included among forms of discrimination , but antisemitism was not mentioned in the list . The petition reportedly argued that the references to Zionism and the rejection patterns indicated that Jews were not hired because it was assumed that because they were Jewish , they were Zionists . <p> A UCLA spokesperson said the institution condemned all forms of discrimination and was reviewing the complaint " as it is absolutely critical that every single member of our community is evaluated fairly for opportunities within student government . " <p> USAC leadership was unable to comment on the proceedings because it is an ongoing case .. <h> Jewish Faculty at UCLA 's statement <p> Jewish Faculty at UCLA , which claims to represent Jewish and non-Jewish faculty at the institution , said on social media last Wednesday that CAC 's use of the term Zionist was code for being Jewish , and the word was being twisted " into a slur to exclude Jews . " Former secretary of state Mike Pompeo weighed into the situation by arguing on X/Twitter on Tuesday that " of the many examples of antisemitism driven by campus DEI , UCLA may be the worst . " <p> Ha'Am noted that the Jewish magazine had previously accused Verdugo of denying access to four of its Jewish reporters to a November CAC event protesting the prohibition of on-campus encampments.On October 9 , in the wake of the October 7 massacre , Verdugo issued an official CAC statement declaring that it would continue to provide unwavering support to Palestinian " liberation . " " We also stand on the grounds that decolonization is not a metaphor , " read a CAC Instagram statement . " Thus , we honor the Palestinians on the frontlines taking their land and sovereignty back ! From the river to the sea , Palestine will be free . " <p> The CAC Instagram post also recommended that followers read the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine terrorist organization 's Strategy for the Liberation of Palestine . PFLP is designated as a foreign terrorist organization by the US State Department.Verdugo emphasized in the statement that the condemnation of Israel was not mutually exclusive with condemnations of antisemitism and assured that " Judaism is separate from the political movement of Zionism. " 
@@118468108 <p> Zangauker was listed for her hostage release advocacy , Cantor was listed for her role as a cultural activist in Israel and the Palestinian territories , and Hoffman was listed for her work campaigning for gender equality and religious pluralism in Israel , according to the BBC . <p> The 100 Women series , inaugurated in late 2013 , features exceptional women , from athletes to activists , chosen based on their influence as women in the 21st century . <h> Einav Zanguaker , hostage movement trailblazer <p> Zangauker , listed as a " hostage release campaigner , " has been one of the leading advocates for the release of the Israeli hostages in Gaza , including her 24-year-old son , Matan . <p> Matan was taken hostage on October 7 along with his partner Ilana . She was returned in a prisoner swap , while he remains in captivity . Einav has become an outspoken critic of the Israeli government as the hostages remain in captivity in Gaza . <p> Zangauker has continued to press for a ceasefire deal to secure the release of the hostages held in Gaza.Einav Zangauker speaking to the civilian probe ( credit : CIVILIAN PROBE ) <h> Danielle Cantor , cultural activist <p> Cantor was listed as a " cultural activist " in " Israel/Palestinian territories , " the BBC wrote . <p> Cantor is co-founder of Culture of Solidarity , a pandemic-founded project that supports vulnerable communities in Israel and Palestinian territories . She recently wrote and photographed for Spreads , an art book that utilizes food culture to dive into politics and identity within the region . <p> Alongside other members of the Women Peace Sit-In , Danielle has taken part in demonstrations calling for a ceasefire in the Middle East , as well as securing a long-lasting peace agreement . <h> Anat Hoffman , religious campaigner <p> Hoffman is listed as a " religious campaigner " in Israel . She spent several decades " campaigning for gender equality and religious pluralism in Judaism , " according to the BBC . As a founding member of Women of the Wall , she has fought against rules stopping women from wearing prayer shawls and reading from the Torah . <p> Hoffman served as the executive director of the Israel Religious Action Center for 20 years , advocating for the Reform Movement in social justice . Before that , she held a seat on the Jerusalem City Council , challenging ultra-Orthodox stringencies against women . <p> In addition to these three listed , featured women include astronaut Sunita Williams , Nobel Peace Prize laureate Nadia Murad , singer Raye , and many others worldwide . 
@@118468110 <h> I stood quietly in the darkness looking at all the lights of beautiful Samaria as the next wave of missiles flew over my head hearing and watching some of the interceptions . <p> The decision was made ; there was no bomb shelter in the apartment , and I knew when rockets and missiles started flying in from Iran , I would watch everything on the third-floor balcony and , if possible , live-stream it . Hiking four floors down to the bomb shelter in the basement was not an option for me . <p> I had just left my apartment of the previous two years the night before , it had been a bad and unfair rental and I had not managed to find a new apartment in Jerusalem as the market and price for a fully furnished apartment was too much . So I actually found myself " homeless " in between apartments as we entered the high holidays . <p> Through a very kind lady in America who follow me on social media , I connected with a couple who offered me roof over my head in the very last minute as they were to travel to Italy for vacation . <p> So , after weeks of hard work packing up my stuff and giving most of it away as it looked like I would end up in a hotel , I had four heavy suitcases and some heavy bags left . <p> A friend of mine and I cleaned the old apartment for days , and on the evening of September 30 , we drove out of Jerusalem to a town in Samaria and hauled the heavy suitcases and bags to the 3rd floor since there was no elevator . We spent about an hour with the host couple before they left for the airport . Following this , I collapsed into bed pretty quickly that night , but I also knew there was no time to rest as I was having a minor surgery two weeks later and needed to find my own place . The Dome of the Rock on the Al-Aqsa compound , also known to Jews as the Temple Mount is seen as projectiles fly through the sky , after Iran fired a salvo of ballistic missiles at Israel , as seen from Jerusalem October 1 , 2024 ( credit : REUTERS/JAMAL AWAD ) <p> The following day my friend and I went shopping in the local supermarket to have provisions as the Jewish New Year would begin the next day . <p> In the afternoon the Internet went offline in the community where I was staying , and my phone service was not getting good reception . As we sat on the balcony watching the incredible view all the way to Jordan , we heard the breaking news from the media than an Iranian attack was imminent . <p> Well , I knew , with my weak knee and damaged meniscus problem , that trying to run down four floors to the basement was not happening , and the journalist inside of me was also too curious to watch it all go down . <p> My friend left , and shortly after that , my phone exploded with heavy lights and a message from the Home Front Command that went out to the entire Holy Land ; " The attack from Iran has begun , " and the whole country should seek shelter immediately . <p> The last time that happened , I was in my own apartment in downtown Jerusalem with my own bomb shelter , now I was in some stranger 's apartment in Samaria ( which is the Biblical heartland ) with no bomb shelter in the apartment . <p> During the entire attack I was without any Internet service , the Wi-Fi was offline , and I was frustrated as I wanted to share the event live , I stood quietly on the balcony and watched a family just across the street . We were all just standing silently and waiting . <p> All of a sudden , the siren went off in the community close by , and I watched as a large barrage of missiles flew overhead into the sky , a sight that was deadly and dangerous but at the same time beautiful . I recorded it on my phone and thought it was good that I had n't told my mom and Danish family that I did n't have a bomb shelter in the apartment . <p> Then it happened : the alerts went off in my community , and once again , my phone blew up from the Home Front Command ordering people into bomb shelters . The family across the street quickly ran into their house and everything become quiet , I did n't see anyone . <p> And then missiles started flying closer to me , but I kept standing there and just prayed for God 's protection over His Holy Land and His people while the genocidal leaders of Iran were trying to wipe out God 's people . <p> Then the missiles came so close that I ran out to the hallway , and the noise became very , very loud . The walls of my building were shaking , and I recorded a couple of ultra-short videos in between , running back to the balcony to watch as much as possible . <p> Honestly I was not afraid , yet I was curious and I am quite settled with my life on earth , knowing that when my time is up , I am going home . <p> My friend had just gone through the checkpoint driving into Jerusalem when the alerts started blasting , and missiles were flying over his head . He later told me how people were running out of buses and cars while parents were pulling their kids out of the cars with the help of police officers who were trying to shield these precious children from Iranian ballistic missiles that were flying over their heads . <p> It was a horrifying scenario , but again , I believe certain that there was Divine protection over the Holy Land during this diabolic attack . God fights for His people . <p> Then everything calmed down , and I saw a man walking his dog , another man running with his kid down the street , and the family across from me peeking out again . Shortly after that , another Red Alert went off in my town again , and my phone blew up with Home Front Command ordering people back into the bomb shelters . <p> I stood quietly in the darkness looking at all the lights of beautiful Samaria as the next wave of missiles flew over my head hearing and watching some of the interceptions . I remained on the balcony declaring God 's promises over His Land . Shortly after that , it was over and in less than 30 minutes a bus came down the street and people went out and everything returned to normal . <p> It was beyond surreal , but I love the hearts , souls , and resilience of the amazing people in Israel . They are stronger than anyone I know . <p> As I reflected on what I was seeing , I realized that once again , the whole world saw that , together with the amazing IDF and especially the brave pilots in the Air Force , the God who watches over Israel neither slumbers nor sleeps . <p> I was in awe of Him as I watched this brutal missile attack on the Holy Land from a front-row seat in Samaria on the balcony on the 3rd floor , the same evil that has tried to wipe the Jewish people off the face of the earth for decades is very much at play today with its genocidal wish to eradicate Israel . <p> But the wicked enemies of Israel seem to be so blinded by their hatred towards God 's Chosen people that they always forget : When you 're fighting against Israel , you 're fighting against God . <p> The couple whose apartment I was staying in cut short their trip by 11 days , and I was rushing to find my own place before I went to Hadassah Hospital for minor foot surgery . <p> It was very stressful but the night before I went into surgery I moved into an apartment in Jerusalem for 6 months , until April 30th . There are still things the landlord has promised to fix and replace , which I am counting on ; it 's way overdue . <p> It 's been some very hectic months for me trying to breathe through it all , moving in and settling while also having a minor surgery and recovering from that . <p> Also , just now , after waiting for a long time , I received a new visa , so I 'll be able to stay in Israel for one more year . For that , I 'm beyond grateful to continue to be Jerusalem Jane in Israel . <p> While I was standing on the balcony watching the 200 ballistic missiles above my head and being unable to run to the bomb shelter four floors down , I was thinking about all the brave people living close to the Gaza border and also in the north who , for years have had to seek shelter over and over again when the deplorable terrorists from Hamas , Islamic Jihad and Hezbollah have been firing rockets and missiles whenever they felt like it . <p> I think of people who had to flee to the basement or wherever the bomb shelters are in their neighborhood who are elderly , who have children or injuries or disabilities , who are simply not able to flee to safety -- it 's a very dangerous situation , it is only by God 's protection that we do n't see bigger casualties in Israel from so many years of rocket attacks . <p> As I am writing this blog , we have alerts in Israel as a ballistic missile is fired from Yemen at Israel , and hundreds of thousands of people are running for their lives to bomb shelters . <h> Attacked every single day since Oct. 7 <p> Israel has been attacked every single day since October 8th , 2023 , with rockets , drones and missiles from several fronts and nations , with most days experiencing launches somewhere between 100-200 rockets , it 's outrageous . Israel is defending her nation and people against genocidal enemies who want to wipe Israel off the face of the earth . <p> I saw a TV host in America saying : " Israel was attacked with 200 ballistic missiles from Iran ; I ca n't imagine the trauma they must have felt in Israel . It happened twice . The whole nation has been traumatized since October 7 of last year . " <p> And I was thinking , Yep , we are ! <p> There is no doubt about it , and my heart and prayers are with all the families who lost a loved one on October 7 ; all the families who lost a loved one in the battle for Israel , among them more than 800 soldiers killed since that cursed day when Hamas and Islamic Jihad carried out an act of genocide against the Jewish people . <p> It 's heartbreaking for those soldier 's families , for all the wives who lost their husbands , and for all the children who are growing up without a dad . <p> My heart are with all the precious hostages still held in Gaza by brutal Hamas and my prayers are with the families of the hostages , it 's devastating . <p> Let me end by saying this : It was actually a very special time staying in Samaria for a couple of weeks . <p> Much quieter than Jerusalem and because of being there I had a front row seat to the biggest ballistic missile attack in history watching in wonder how God protected His Nation , another mighty miracle in Israel . 
@@118468114 <p> The video features a simulated image of Netanyahu against the backdrop of Hamas tunnels in Gaza and is shown to be saying , " My name is Yair Netanyahu , 33 years old , From Jerusalem ... uh , Miami , Caesarea . I 've been here in Hamas captivity with almost no food or water , without seeing the sun or breathing fresh air . " <p> " My life is in danger because of IDF bombings . Hamas is protecting me from Israeli aggression . Now that there 's a ceasefire in the North , it 's time to release us . I 'm asking you , Dad , Mom - free me . Only you can do it , " the simulated Netanyahu said . <p> " I see the polls on all the channels -- most people support a deal . Please remember me ! Please do everything ! I miss my freedom , you , and Avner . I want to come home . Please reach a deal . " A Hamas tunnel in Gaza that held the bodies of hostages ( credit : IDF Spokesperson 's Unit ) <p> Israeli media cited the video as originating from Forum Haim , which represents some hostage families . The video 's origin could not be verified by The Jerusalem Post . 
@@118499301 <p> Both the Syrian Defense Ministry and an official from the militant group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , known as HTS , said that insurgents had gained access to the country 's fourth-biggest city and that despite fierce fighting , the troops of the regime of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad had left the city . <p> Hassan Abdul-Ghani , senior commander of the HTS-led forces , told NBC News that tanks had been used during the incursion and that fighters had " entered the Hama Central Prison and freed hundreds of unjustly imprisoned individuals . " <p> In a statement posted on Facebook , the Syrian Defense Ministry said that rebel groups " managed to penetrate several positions within the city and enter it , " and that " to safeguard the lives of the civilian population in Hama and to avoid involving them in urban combat , the military units stationed there have redeployed and repositioned outside the city . " <p> NBC News was unable to independently confirm claims by either side because independent journalism is very difficult in Syria , owing to the rapid changes in territory held by different groups and the repression of media by the official government . <p> Syria 's civil war has dragged on for almost 14 years but had died down since 2020 , when battle lines between Assad 's forces and a patchwork of insurgent groups became solidified . <p> But that all changed last week , with HTS -- which grew out of the former Al Qaeda affiliate Jabhat al-Nusra and is designated as a terrorist organization by the United States and the United Nations among others -- seizing the country 's most-populous city of Aleppo in a surprise offensive . <p> " It was really surprising that they managed to make it into Aleppo , " said Samuel Ramani , an associate fellow at the London-based Royal United Services Institute think tank . " This is certainly beyond anyone 's expectations -- Hama 's a critical logistical area between Aleppo and Damascus . " <p> The taking the city of Hama by HTS-led forces could prove pivotal in shifting the balance of the civil war . The city has never before been in rebel hands and has been the site of more than one bloody crackdown by both Assad 's regime and that of his father , Hafez al-Assad . <p> " It 's a huge humiliation for Assad and it comes at a time when he was confident in his long-term position , focusing on doing a deal with the Trump administration and guarding from spillovers from the Gaza and Lebanon wars -- neither Damascus nor Moscow expected a second Syrian civil war , " added Ramani , who is also an international relations lecturer at the University of Oxford . <p> Military reinforcements being moved from Idlib to control Hama , Syria , on Wednesday.Ibrahim Hatib / Anadolu via Getty Images <p> In a separate interview , Charles Lister , the director of the Syria program at the Middle East Institute , a Washington-based think tank , said that if Hama were to fall to the rebels , their next target will be the strategically important and central city of Homs , which sits around 30 miles south of Hama . <p> One feature of the battle for Hama -- and the broader Syrian civil war -- has been fierce aerial attacks from government forces . <p> The air superiority of Assad 's forces -- which have long received heavy backing from Russia and Iran -- was on display Thursday before government forces left Hama . Helicopter gunships carried out aerial bombardments with barrel bombs , according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights . <p> Despite Moscow 's depleted presence , a return to the heavy Russian-led bombing of civilian infrastructure not seen since 2018 looks likely , according to Ramani from RUSI . <p> " It 's really unclear what 's next for the Assad government and how they turn back the tide . The Russians have said they 're all in on Assad but they 've redeployed jets and air defenses to Ukraine , " said he said . " It does n't mean that Damascus is going to fall but it also does n't mean Assad will be able to restore authoritarian stability any time soon . " 
@@118499302 <p> The accusation by the human rights group is the latest in a growing list of organizations , including numerous United Nations agencies , that allege Israel 's actions during the 14-month-old conflict are consistent with genocide . It also comes as another blow to Israel 's contention that its conduct has been justifiable . <p> A spokesperson for the Israel Defense Forces called the report 's claims " entirely baseless . " <p> Amnesty International said Israel had committed acts prohibited by the Genocide Convention , an international treaty that criminalizes genocide , citing " killing , causing serious bodily or mental harm and deliberately inflicting on Palestinians in Gaza conditions of life calculated to bring about their physical destruction . " <p> The organization added that Israel has done so " with the specific intent to destroy Palestinians , " a group protected under the Genocide Convention . <p> " The true test of whether enough was being done by Israel ... to address the humanitarian catastrophe in Gaza is the extent to which Palestinians living in Gaza could access adequate food , water , medicine , health services and other essentials , " the report said . " They overwhelmingly could not . " <p> In researching the report , Amnesty interviewed 212 people , conducted fieldwork and analyzed statements from Israeli officials and what it called " an extensive range of visual and digital evidence , including satellite imagery . " <p> A boy shouts near an ambulance Wednesday after an Israeli strike on a camp for displaced Palestinians in southern Gaza.Bashar Taleb / AFP - Getty Images <p> The report was released the morning after a round of fresh Israeli airstrikes hit a tent camp for displaced Palestinians in southern Gaza late Wednesday , killing at least 21 people , the head of the nearby Nasser Hospital in the southern city of Khan Younis told The Associated Press . <p> The Amnesty International report described the period from Oct. 7 , 2023 -- the day Hamas and other militant groups attacked Israel , killing around 1,200 people and taking 250 hostage -- and this July . According to officials in Gaza , more than 44,000 people have been killed in Israel 's war in the enclave . <p> In response to a request from NBC News , a spokesperson for the Israel Defense Forces said that " the claims presented in this report are entirely baseless and fail to account for the operational realities faced by the IDF " and that it is working to " dismantle Hamas ' military infrastructure . " <p> The spokespersonadded that " the IDF takes all feasible measures to mitigate harm to civilians during operations " and that the report ignores " Hamas ' violations of international law , including its use of civilians as human shields and its deliberate targeting of Israeli civilians . " <p> While the report focuses on Israel 's conduct , it notes that some of Hamas ' actions " constituted war crimes under international law , " and called upon Israel , Hamas and other Palestinian armed groups , like Palestinian Islamic Jihad , to agree to an immediate cease-fire . <p> The strike on the al-Mawasi tent camp was one of several across Gaza on Wednesday that left scenes of burning chaos , with emergency workers recovering charred bodies , including those of women and children . <p> " The place was a hell , " one firefighter , Mohammed Alnajar , told NBC News . " It was a catastrophe everywhere : Shattered martyrs and propane tanks belonging to the displaced were exploding . " <p> In a statement , the IDF said the strike was conducted against " senior Hamas terrorists who were involved in terrorist activities in the humanitarian area in Khan Younis , " adding that secondary explosions suggested " the presence of weaponry in the area . " <p> While Amnesty International 's report ended in July , it goes on to say that the IDF 's human rights violations in Gaza have continued and suggested that Israel 's allies exert influence over the country and cease arms sales . <p> Israel has repeatedly been criticized for not allowing enough aid into Gaza , with the Biden administration -- which spent almost $18 billion on military aid to Israel in the year after the Oct. 7 attack , according to Brown University 's Costs of War Project -- at times threatening to slow or withhold the sales of certain weapons as a bargaining chip . <p> In a post Wednesday on X , COGAT , the Israeli defense ministry unit for civilian matters in Gaza , said that 161 humanitarian aid trucks had entered Gaza that day carrying food , flour and medical aid . <p> Before Israel launched its offensive in Gaza , around 500 trucks entered the enclave each day , according to the British Red Cross . <p> While " identifying genocide in armed conflict is complex and challenging , because of the multiple objectives that may exist simultaneously , " Amnesty International said in Thursday 's report , " it is critical to recognize genocide when it occurs in the context of armed conflict , and to insist that war can never excuse it . " 
@@118501804 <p> Beirut , Lebanon -- Israel has intensively used white phosphorus on a strip in southern Lebanon that matches a zone its army has marked as a red " no go " zone on maps it distributes to Lebanese people , telling them not to return to their homes there . <p> More than 918 hectares ( 2,268 acres ) have been hit in 191 attacks using the controversial munition since October 8 , 2023 , according to data collected by Lebanese researcher Ahmad Baydoun and environmental activist group Green Southerners . <p> Israel and the Lebanese group Hezbollah have exchanged attacks since October 8 , 2023 , a disproportionate exchange -- with at least four Israeli attacks for each one from the Lebanese side . <h> How Israel uses white phosphorus <p> The fiery fragments continue to burn -- on vegetation , buildings , or right through human flesh -- until they are fully oxidised or deprived of oxygen . <p> Israel claims it uses white phosphorus munitions to create a smokescreen on the battlefield yet rights groups say it has deployed it over populated areas , not battlefields , in both Gaza and Lebanon -- which violates international humanitarian law . <p> " The use of white phosphorus in warzones relies on three pillars , " Hamze Attar , a Luxembourg-based defence analyst , told Al Jazeera . <p> Those three pillars are : using it as a smoke screen to obscure troop advances ; clearing fighters and military equipment from wide open spaces ; and a rapid response or preemptive action before or after a rocket launch . <p> Human Rights Watch found at least five cases as of June 2024 where the munitions " were unlawfully used over populated residential areas " . <h> Intense bombing in southern Lebanon <p> " The most intense bombing and systematic eradication of the land cover was indeed in this border area , " Rami Zurayk , Department of Landscape Design and Ecosystem Management chair at the American University of Beirut , said . <p> Baydoun 's research confirmed that Israel has focused white phosphorus use across southern Lebanon , with a higher intensity in the early months of the conflict . <p> The first two months of the attacks in 2023 -- October ( 45 white phosphorus shells ) and November ( 44 ) were the most intense , with 99 out of a total of 199 white phosphorus attacks . <p> Advertisement <p> In September 2024 , Israel again escalated , killing 3,150 people in a little more than two months . <p> Independent conflict-monitoring organisation ACLED recorded 4,841 Israeli military actions in southern Lebanon from October 8 , 2023 , to November 27 , 2024 , and a further 8,209 in Nabatieh , both above and below the Litani . <p> Last Wednesday , a ceasefire negotiated by France and the United States came into effect . Elated , thousands of displaced people were heading back to their villages in the south within hours . <p> But a day after the ceasefire was announced , Israel released its map with the red " off limits " zone . <p> " You are prohibited at this stage from returning to your homes from this line south until further notice , " the Israeli army 's Arabic-language spokesman Avichay Adraee wrote on X , formerly Twitter . <p> Under the terms of the ceasefire , Israel must withdraw its troops from southern Lebanon in 60 days to make way for the Lebanese army which will deploy to the south . The Israeli army is still in this area . <p> Bounded by the Litani River to the north , which is 6km ( 3.7 miles ) from the border at its closest point and 28km ( 17 miles ) at its furthest , and the Blue Line demarcation with Israel , this area is also to be cleared of Hezbollah and its military infrastructure . <p> Public Works Studio , an urban planning and policymaking studio in Lebanon , also published online a series of maps that document Israel 's destruction of southern Lebanon , including where white phosphorus was used . <p> Advertisement <p> " Most of the areas affected by phosphorus are included in the strip that Avichae mentioned is off-limits for southerners to return to , " a researcher at Public Works Studio , who requested anonymity , told Al Jazeera . <p> Al Jazeera <p> Baydoun noted that the damage is extensive to this area Israel seemingly wants as a buffer zone . <p> " This is beyond a scorched earth policy because the consequences are invisible and long-term , and nature can not regenerate itself , " Baydoun said . " There needs to be ... effort to decontaminate . " <h> Buffer zone <p> The southern area is now under Israeli control as the terms of the ceasefire , which stipulates Israel will withdraw its forces behind the Blue Line within 60 days , are put into place . <p> " Nothing on earth will stop the residents of these Lebanese border villages from going back , so I think the Israelis are buying time and doing more damage and searching for Hezbollah infrastructure within this buffer zone , " Nicholas Blanford , a Lebanon expert with the Atlantic Council think tank said . <p> " It is probably not a coincidence that the area where Israelis restricted people from entering conforms almost identically to their former occupation zone in the 1980s and 1990s , " Blanford told Al Jazeera . <p> Al Jazeera <p> However , Blanford said , he did not believe the Israelis would stay in that zone beyond the 60 days , as any long-term occupation would lead to a renewed resistance from Hezbollah . <p> Still , Israel 's goal of creating a buffer zone , including through the use of white phosphorus , may be achieved . <p> Advertisement <p> It has already destroyed hundreds of hectares of land , including tens of thousands of olive trees , and has now reportedly moved on to demolishing buildings in those towns as well . 
@@118516803 <h> With no hope for this team , honor a great Giant <p> Nissequogue , L.I. : The New York Giants endured a 17-year playoff drought from 1964-1980 that encompassed my entire childhood . I grew up with them being a dismal franchise and the laughingstock of the NFL . As bad as things were back then , I feel it 's even worse now . <p> At least then , the Giants always seemed to be competitive and put up a fight . Nowadays , they have a 2-10 record and their star rookie receiver Malik Nabers actually said out loud that the team is " soft as f ? - ? - ? k " . This is beyond an embarrassment . It is a historic humiliation to be a Giants fan in 2024 . <p> There are two home games left in the coldest month of the year . What fan in his or her right mind would want to endure the elements to come watch this team get further humiliated playing meaningless games ? But there is one possible attraction that Giants management can offer fans this lost season . Currently , former Giants running back and Super Bowl XXV MVP Ottis " O.J. " Anderson is vying for his long-deserved induction into the Pro Football Hall of Fame . <p> If for nothing else but to give fans a reason to attend one of these meaningless games , the Giants should give Anderson a halftime Hall of Fame awareness ceremony . The reason Anderson is n't in the Hall is partly because he had such an awesome career that most everybody assumes he 's already in it . If nothing else gets accomplished for the Giants in 2024 , they can at least fix this . It 's likely going to be the highlight of the season . Stephen Louro <h> Pencil-pushers <p> El Cerrito , Calif. : Really terrific reading Kristian Winfield 's article in praise of the Knicks front office ( " Seems like magic , " Dec. 4 ) , which names not a single member of said front office except for the salary cap specialist . Leon Rose and World Wide Wes must 've had a good laugh reading that one . Ed Bode <h> A caring coach <p> Whitestone : When Basketball Hall of Fame coach Lou Carnesecca passed away on Saturday , we St. John 's University friends of Louie lost a good friend and a great role model ( " Saint Looie ! " Dec. 2 ) . If you were a friend of Louie , you were his friend forever . He never forgot any of the hundreds of players he coached . He was our freshman baseball coach in 1962-63 , two years before he took over the basketball team when Joe Lapchick retired . He made everyone feel like they were important to him -- a good friend , a good guy . Sometimes , even in his 90s , he would call former St. John 's players and ask how we were doing . He always made time for his hundreds of friends . Michael J. Gorman <h> Contrived theory <p> Forest Hills : Daniel Penny 's well-heeled defense team went to Rent-a-Witness and paid $90,000 for a guy to tell them exactly what they wanted to hear . So , we ( and the jury ) are supposed to believe that even if Penny had not choked him , Jordan Neely would have died in that subway car anyway -- spontaneously -- from schizophrenia and synthetic marijuana . Alan Hirschberg <h> Tough talk is cheap <p> Swarthmore , Pa. : Donald Trump has pledged -- actually threatened -- that if the hostages held by the terrorist group Hamas are not released prior to his inauguration on Jan. 20 , 2025 , there will be " hell to pay . " He does n't seem to appreciate that Hamas ' hatred for Israel and their dedication to its destruction is what gives them the power to maintain their vise-like grip on the people of Gaza . He also does n't seem to realize that the Israelis have already rained hell down on the people of Gaza and Hamas . Trump 's bluster will not scare Hamas into submission -- in fact , it may only strengthen their resolve to prove that they 're not afraid of him or the United States . It 's the might and retributive retaliation wrought by the Israeli military that will bring Hamas to its knees , not Trump 's rhetoric , even if he posts it in all caps on his social media site . Ken Derow <h> Wait and see <p> Ottawa , Ontario : I do not understand why there is so much doom and gloom about Trump . Whether it is Canada , Mexico or China , you only hear catastrophic messages of what will happen . Really , there has got to be some good news , not 24-hour bad news . Imagine if war ends with Ukraine , imagine if North Korea will stop firing those missiles in exchange for an economic package , or even imagine if Iran would end all hostilities toward the U.S. for sanctions to be lifted . It is possible , is n't it ? If these were to happen , I see the Nobel Peace Prize waiting for Trump . Give him some slack , will you ? Anant Nagpur <h> Not unusual <p> Austin , Texas : I am tired of news networks dramatizing and making a big deal about President Biden 's pardon of his son Hunter . Their double standard is unreasonable and unfair . Let us remember that Trump promised to pardon so many of those convicted for their involvement in the Jan. 6 insurrection . Moreover , as a friend reminds me , it 's not out of the historical norm for presidents to pardon family members . Bill Clinton pardoned his brother Roger . In addition , Trump pardoned his son-in-law 's father . It 's time , therefore , for the media to stop obsessing over Biden 's decision . He has been an excellent president who came along at a time when the country desperately needed someone who could empathize with Americans and bring back civility and rationality to the White House . Richard Cherwitz <h> Massive blind spot <p> Brooklyn : To Voicer Tom Ascher : Are you for real ? A pathological liar and convicted felon is about to become the most powerful man in the world , and you say that Hunter Biden is above the law ? Give me a break . June Lowe <h> As yet unpunished <p> Manhattan : Voicer Tom Ascher 's letter was a bad joke . What were the repercussions for Trump committing high treason by trying to overthrow an American presidential election ? He sent a violent , destructive mob of thousands to trash the priceless , national landmark Capitol Building on Jan. 6 . What were the repercussions for trying to " find votes " in Georgia , cheat on real estate and business taxes , blackmail Ukraine , confiscate top secret documents and refuse to return them to the government , and lie more than 45,000 times while in office ? The penalty for Fox News for repeating the lies was $787 million . The penalty for Rudy Giuliani repeating the lies was $148 million . Other than Trump getting thrown out of court 60 times for lying about " election fraud , " I 'm still waiting for those repercussions for the Republican Mobster-in-Chief . Sam Katz <h> Credibility void <p> Manhattan : I am a Democrat and believe that those who break the law should pay the penalty . However , the incoming president has said he intends to take revenge on his enemies , and President Biden is probably Enemy #1 . But Biden is retiring and not much can be done to him except calling him names ( like children would do ) . His son -- now there 's a target ! In this very specific instance , I agree with Rep. Eric Swalwell , who posted , " If you defended the 34x felon , who committed sexual assault , stole national security documents , and tried running a coup on his country ... you can sit out the Hunter Biden pardon discussion . " Lindsay Cohen <h> Bending over backwards <p> Miami : I am glad Biden pardoned his son , even after pledging not to . I get so tired of Democrats gnashing their teeth over shortcomings among their own ( Al Franken , for example ) while Republicans look past much worse . Do you really think Trump needed this as justification for pardoning the Jan. 6 rioters ? Everybody knows he would be doing it no matter what . And please , there is no moral equivalency to pardoning hundreds who were attempting to overthrow our democracy ( leading to deaths and injuries of Capitol Police officers ) versus pardoning a son who pleaded guilty for filing false gun ownership paperwork and who has turned his life around . Please . Sylvan Seidenman 
@@118517100 <p> Members of the New York police crime scene unit pick up cups marking the spots where bullets lie as they investigate the scene outside the Hilton Hotel in midtown Manhattan where Brian Thompson , the CEO of UnitedHealthcare , was fatally shot Wednesday , Dec. 4 , 2024 , in New York . ( AP Photo/Stefan Jeremiah ) <p> Stefan Jeremiah <p> NEW YORK ( AP ) -- Brian Thompson led one of the biggest health insurers in the US but was unknown to millions of people his decisions affected . The fatal shooting of UnitedHealthcare 's chief executive on a midtown Manhattan sidewalk Wednesday became a mystery that riveted the nation . Police say it was a targeted killing . Thompson was 50 . <p> PALERMO , Calif . ( AP ) -- Sheriff 's officials say two children have been wounded in a shooting at a tiny religious school in Northern California and the gunman is dead . The Butte County sheriff says the boys aged 5 and 6 were hospitalized in " extremely critical condition " following Wednesday 's shooting at Feather River School of Seventh-Day Adventists in Palermo , a small town north of Sacramento . <p> CAIRO ( AP ) -- Amnesty International accuses Israel of committing genocide in the Gaza Strip during its war with Hamas , saying it has sought to deliberately destroy Palestinians by mounting deadly attacks , demolishing vital infrastructure and preventing the delivery of humanitarian aid . <p> NEW YORK ( AP ) -- Fifty-thousand multi-colored lights are shining on Rockefeller Center 's iconic Christmas tree , with crowds gathering to witness the annual New York City tradition . The giant Norway spruce , which this year hails from a tiny Massachusetts town , is also topped with a Swarovski star crown featuring 3 million crystals . <p> MAKAWAO , Hawaii . ( AP ) -- Conservationists say five Hawaiian crows have been released on Maui for the first time as part of an ongoing effort to return the species to its home . Officials with the San Diego Zoo Wildlife Alliance say the alala were released on Maui Wednesday . <p> In other news : <p> Trump considers DeSantis for the Pentagon with Hegseth under pressure over allegations AP sources . <p> Yoon replaces the defense minister as South Korea 's parliament moves to vote on their impeachments . <p> Philippine police checking reports that a kidnapped American has died after being shot . <p> -- The Associated Press <p> About this program <p> Host Terry Lipshetz is managing editor of the national newsroom for Lee Enterprises . Besides producing the daily Hot off the Wire news podcast , Terry conducts periodic interviews for this Behind the Headlines program , co-hosts the Streamed &amp; Screened movies and television program and is the former producer of Across the Sky , a podcast dedicated to weather and climate . <p> Theme music <p> The News Tonight , used under license from Soundstripe . YouTube clearance : ZR2MOTROGI4XAHRX <p> Members of the New York police crime scene unit pick up cups marking the spots where bullets lie as they investigate the scene outside the Hilton Hotel in midtown Manhattan where Brian Thompson , the CEO of UnitedHealthcare , was fatally shot Wednesday , Dec. 4 , 2024 , in New York . ( AP Photo/Stefan Jeremiah ) 
@@118522614 <h> Share on Social Media <p> The producers of a documentary about the victims of the Oct. 7 attacks by Hamas at the Nova Music Festival are accusing the International Documentary Association of anti-Israel bias after they pulled paid awards season ads ahead of voting for the Oscars ' Best Documentary shortlist . <p> The organization denied the charge on Wednesday in a letter from their lawyer sent to TheWrap , calling the accusation " fictional . " <p> Ads for " We Will Dance Again , " a documentary streaming on Paramount+ from director Yariv Mozer , began to run Nov. 18 and were suddenly pulled ahead of the first round of Academy Award voting to determine the shortlist for the Best Documentary Feature category . <p> Producer Michael Schmidt accused Zaferhan Yumru , IDA 's director of marketing and communications , of pulling the ads over their opposition to Israel . <p> " Zaferhan Yumru 's sudden and arbitrary cancellation of all our ad contracts with the IDA is simply the result of their own personal animosity , " Schmidt wrote in a statement to TheWrap . " We know the IDA is better than this . The IDA 's very mission is to share the stories that matter -- one person 's personal bias should not stand in the way of that . Our focus remains where it belongs , however : sharing with audiences a non-partisan , intimate , yet horrifying story about the loss we all suffer in tragedy . " <p> TheWrap reached out to Yumru who did not respond to a request for comment . The spokesman said that the ads were pulled because the IDA overbooked its advertising inventory and needed the space for films that had higher priority . <p> Yumru is a signatoryto Film Workers for Palestine , a " call by and for filmmakers and cinema workers to stand for an end to genocide , and for a free Palestine , " according to its website . <p> A photo of Zaferhan Yumru posted to their private Instagram , provided to TheWrap <p> A legal letter sent on Dec. 4 from Singh and Trauben noted the " IDA rejected at least twelve ( 12 ) other inquiries for eBlasts and other related marketing . We mention this as , unfortunately , it appears your client has chosen to unilaterally ascribe a fictional anti-Israel bias to IDA as the motivation for these cancellations of space reservations . " <p> The IDA also called on Sipur to " immediately cease and desist from any public statements ascribing an alleged anti-Israel or antisemitic or other political bias to IDA or to IDA 's decision to cancel these space reservations . " <p> The fast-moving controversy highlights the tension inside Hollywood between progressives -- including many activists in the documentary community -- who are pro-Palestinian and oppose Israel 's response to the Oct. 7 attacks , which were the basis of a highly critical Amnesty International report on Wednesday , and those who support Israel in the wake of hostage-taking and a deadly massacre . <p> Lawyers representing Sipur Studios wrote on Nov. 26 that Sipur signed a $21,000 contract for a series of eBlast ads -- ads that appear in email newsletters -- sent directly to IDA members , many of whom are also Academy voters . <p> Released on Paramount+ in August , " We Will Dance Again " reconstructs the Oct. 7 attacks on the Nova music festival through video footage and interviews with more than two dozen survivors . The film opens with text noting , " The human cost of the Hamas massacre in Israel and the war that followed in Gaza has been catastrophic for both Israelis and Palestinians , " adding that , " This film can not tell everyone 's story . " <p> " At some point between Nov. 13 , 2024 , and the date hereof , IDA improperly decided to abandon its obligations to Sipur and is refusing to distribute the eBlast(s) as set forth in the Agreement . IDA ostensibly abandoned its obligations because of operational reasons though we are not aware of any other clients of IDA who were impacted by this operational issue nor did IDA disclose the nature of the operational issue , " the letter reads . <p> A spokesperson for " We Will Dance Again " told TheWrap on Wednesday that he has previously worked with the IDA on eBlast ad buys for other films in past awards cycles and has never been notified about overbooking . The spokesperson said his team could not find any other films that had ad space pulled , nor did the IDA identify other films that were affected . <p> " In reality , there is significant concern that IDA 's decision is driven by non-operational reasons given that Sipur is an Israel-based studio and the Project sheds light on the atrocities committed on the Israeli people on Oct. 7 , 2023 which has garnered much public attention , " the Sipur letter continues . <p> In a statement , Schmidt said that after they were notified of the ad pull on Nov. 21 , the producers had several email exchanges with the IDA in which they were promised replacement ads , but no longer received replies on Nov. 25 , leading to the Nov. 26 email from legal counsel . <p> " They said it was a mistake , that they need the advertising inventory for themselves . Well , we have a binding contract , " Schmidt said . " And if you really have an issue with your inventory , why not reduce the inventory across your clients by one post instead of deleting all the inventory of one client ? " <p> Schmidt believes that the cancellation stemmed from one of the production companies involved in the project being Israeli . " Our film is not even political but follows young kids ( not even all Israeli or even Jewish ) at a music concert on Oct. 7 getting slaughtered by terrorists , " he said . <p> In a statement to TheWrap , former IDA President Richard Propper expressed his support for Sipur . <p> " Why would the IDA , a champion of independent filmmakers , renege on its commitment to promote ' We Will Dance Again ' ? The IDA has a distinguished history of promoting films from all faiths , cultures and nationalities . Sabotaging the qualification of any documentary because staff disagrees with its content is a gross violation of trust with the membership , trustees and sponsors of IDA , " he said . <p> In a response from its attorneys sent Wednesday ( available in full here ) , the IDA rejected claims that " We Will Dance " was singled out for ad pulls because of its content , claiming that the organization had received an " influx of inquiries " from films nominated for the IDA Documentary Awards , which will be held this Thursday . <p> Advertising space in IDA publications , particularly in newsletters to members , is sought after by documentaries not just for the IDA Awards , but to raise awareness of films ahead of the voting period for the Best Documentary Feature Oscar shortlist , which the Film Academy will open Dec. 9 . <p> The IDA declined further comment beyond the letter from its attorneys. 
@@118543416 <p> Is the small amount of copper these mines would yield worth our clean water ? <p> December 5 , 2024 at 11:30PM <p> " Is the small amount of copper and nickel that these mines would add to the global supply chain worth it ? " writes Chris Knopf . " Should we risk the Boundary Waters and the clean waters that make Minnesota so famous and such a great place to live ? " ( Mitchel Boeck/Tribune News Service ) <p> Antofagasta , the Chilean mining conglomerate seeking to mine near the Boundary Waters , has an alarming history of environmental violations including toxic spills , water pollution and destruction of cultural heritage sites . The company has been sued by the Chilean State for allegedly contaminating groundwater and , more recently , not only pushed through a controversial pipeline project but also sued 27 local protesters who opposed the project due to environmental concerns . Given copper-sulfide mining 's inherent risks of acid mine drainage and heavy metal contamination , should we welcome a foreign corporation with its track record of both environmental destruction and legal intimidation to operate near the Boundary Waters ? <p> Now , you ca n't answer " how " they are going to mine without addressing the fact that this type of mining has a perfect track record of pollution . The claim that Minnesota has a " non-detect " standard , in which no amount of pollution is allowed from a mine , is simply false . Let 's remember that in 2018 Minnesota permitted another copper-sulfide mine , PolyMet , and that permit would have allowed the mine to discharge almost 16 million gallons of polluted water each year . <p> As for " why , " Lucas is right : Our modern world does need minerals such as copper and nickel . But is the small amount of copper and nickel that these mines would add to the global supply chain worth it ? Should we risk the Boundary Waters and the clean waters that make Minnesota so famous and such a great place to live ? <p> Do we really want this Chilean-owned mining company operating a polluting mine on the doorsteps of the Boundary Waters ? <p> Chris Knopf , St. Paul <p> The writer is executive director of Friends of the Boundary Waters Wilderness . <p> *** <p> A pro-mining counterpoint by Lucas , executive director of MiningMinnesota , an organization created for this purpose , raises important questions such as " how ? " and " by whom ? " and " why ? " that need to be addressed before actual mining should begin . <p> We know the answer to " why ? " Since the beginning of mining , thousands of years ago , it has always been greed ; any attempt to claim other motives is absurd . But OK , greed sometimes works out . " By whom ? " and " how ? " are almost as easy . Hopefully by folks with proven track records of protecting the environment , using proven methods for protecting the environment -- i.e. , not by multinational companies controlled by interests known for destroying the environment , using dangerous , destructive or experimental technologies . <p> Oddly , Lucas skips " when ? " This is the easiest question of all . When all reasonable people are convinced that the " by whom ? " and the " how ? " have been satisfactorily addressed . It 's not like these reserves of copper , nickel , etc. are going to be less valuable in the future . <p> John K. Trepp , Minneapolis <h> DEMOCRATS ' LOSS <h> Progressivism is the problem <p> Saturday 's juxtaposition of a political cartoon with a Democrat writing on a chalkboard " Those who do n't learn from history are doomed to repeat it " with the article about Rep. Ilhan Omar lecturing Democrats about why we lost ( " Omar has feedback for Harris campaign , " front page , Nov. 30 ) -- caught my attention . Her message that if Democrats had veered more progressive we 'd have done better could n't be more wrong . It is her and her " defund the police " faction that turned off the voters we need to attract . Our party needs to look in the mirror and temper our obsession with lecturing people about race , gender , immigration , masks and pronouns so we can focus on things people care about like health care and the environment . <p> Our wokeness is not simply annoying , a segment of voters used it as justification to turn over the keys to a dangerous , despicable narcissist . A large group of voters were more disturbed by our excesses than the excesses of a vulgar , dishonest , unstable wannabe dictator . Blue-collar men no longer feel welcome in our increasingly white-collar , urban , feminized party . I 'll go to my grave baffled how people can be OK with someone like Donald Trump . I 'll still take my side 's values , policies and well-intentioned naivete to the anger , danger and fear of MAGA . But if we do n't listen , learn , adapt and moderate -- we 're going to continue to lose elections , and possibly our democracy . <p> Ryan Pulkrabek , Minneapolis <p> *** <p> Rep. Omar 's assertion that Kamala Harris and Tim Walz lost because their message was not far enough to the left is clearly off base . Trump 's ( unfortunate in my opinion ) win was because the majority of voters were unhappy with the Biden/Harris administration 's actions ( and inactions ) on hot button issues including the surge at the southern border , inflation exacerbated by government overspending and transgender women in women 's sports competitions . Ukraine and Gaza will suffer the collateral damage of the Democratic Party 's loss of the election and failure to decisively address the voters ' priorities . <p> Aristotle maintains we should feel pain in the presence of wrongdoing . Suffering and experiencing pain 's silent despair , then , are as essential to the human spirit as any laughter amid great moments of satire . Both laughter and tears maintain equanimity and sanity in trying times , and both mobilize ethical action to address wrongdoings . <p> As much as Fox tries to strike a balance between laughter and tears , he gives silence , sorrow and suffering short shrift . But he 's in the comedy business , and the comedy business gets paid by the laugh . <p> I 'll laugh again ; I 'm sure of it . But with the election of Trump , half the voters just suffered a painful blow that may soon court injustices against vulnerable and disenfranchised people worldwide for the foreseeable future . Which is why I ca n't get out of my head a little dark humor from S ? ren Kierkegaard : <p> " In a theater , it happened that a fire started offstage . The clown came out to tell the audience . They thought it was a joke and applauded . He told them again , and they became still more hilarious . This is the way , I suppose , that the world will be destroyed -- amid the universal hilarity of wits and wags who think it is all a joke . " <p> James Lorentzen , St. Paul <h> LOGAN PARK DEBATE <h> Listen to artists <p> With regard to the debate between city planners and the working artists of the northeast Minneapolis Logan Park district , I have one word of advice : Listen . Listen , that is , to the artists . And make sure that their views are an integral factor in any development decision for that rare and unique area ( " ' There 's a vibe to the atmosphere , ' " Nov. 28 ) . <p> Has Minneapolis learned nothing from generations of bulldozing unique buildings and neighborhoods , only to replace them with bland commercial kitsch ? When money is the only real factor in planning , you are taking the easy way out -- and you get what you pay for . <p> As someone born and raised here and who spent many years living in Providence , R.I. , I say : Take a lesson from that city -- which has honed its skills ( literally for centuries ) in cultural and historic preservation . In so doing , they have produced a tremendous renaissance -- both economic and cultural -- for that tough old industrial town . <p> Listen to the artists . Work with them . Merely to advance your own priorities , dismissing theirs , is a zero-sum game , which nobody wins . Do n't demolish a vibrant neighborhood for the sake of standardized banality ! Bureaucrats , think like artists -- that is , out of the box . 
@@118543711 <h> Trump is already acting like he 's president : From the Politics Desk <p> Welcome to the online version of From the Politics Desk , an evening newsletter that brings you the NBC News Politics team 's latest reporting and analysis from the White House , Capitol Hill and the campaign trail . <p> In today 's edition , senior White House reporter Peter Nicholas examines how Donald Trump is overshadowing the final weeks of Joe Biden 's presidency . Plus , we dive into what Kamala Harris and Trump campaigns spent their cash on in the closing days of the 2024 race . <h> Trump is n't president yet , but that has n't stopped him from starting to act like he is <h> By Peter Nicholas <p> Foreign leaders have lined up to speak with him . He has rattled Mexico and Canada with threats of steep tariffs and warned there would be " hell to pay " for militants in Gaza unless they release the hostages by the time he 's sworn in . <p> That wo n't happen for another 45 days , but Donald Trump , the president-in-waiting , is n't shying away from acting like the president-in-reality . <p> Trump ca n't sign a bill or issue an executive order yet , but he is crowding out Joe Biden as the sitting president winds down his term and steadily recedes from public view . In two foreign trips since the election , Biden has answered all of two questions from reporters . <p> He has been left to kibitz about Trump 's pronouncements -- " I hope he rethinks it , " he said of Trump 's plan to impose 25% tariffs on Canada and Mexico -- rather than drive an agenda of his own . <p> As for Trump , " his view is that he 's not going to follow rules that he thinks are stupid rules , " said a former senior White House official in Trump 's first term . " His view is these are hostages and if he can help bring them home , then why would he follow protocol if it 's going to impact peoples ' lives ? " <p> At this point , Trump is " already basically running things , and he 's not even president yet , " the person added . <p> Trump 's penchant for plunging into current affairs is testing the one-at-a-time dictum that presidents are supposed to honor but , for reasons of political expediency or practical necessity , usually do n't . <p> This weekend , Trump will join French President Emmanuel Macron in Paris for the reopening of Notre Dame Cathedral five years after it was devastated by fire . Biden was invited but opted not to attend , a White House official said . <h> How Harris ' campaign spent $277 million in the final weeks <h> By Bridget Bowman , Ben Kamisar and Joe Murphy <p> Despite coming up short in the vote count , Vice President Kamala Harris ' campaign raised and spent roughly twice as much as President-elect Trump in the final days of the 2024 election and the weeks that followed , new campaign finance reports show . <p> The Harris campaign raised $160 million and spent $277 million from Oct. 25 through Nov. 25 , the period covered by the latest reports filed with the Federal Election Commission , while the Trump campaign pulled in $87 million and spent $113 million over that time . <p> The largest shares of both campaigns ' spending went to media buys and ad production , with the Harris campaign spending $129 million to Trump 's $95.1 million , according to an analysis of expenditures in the new filings . <p> The Harris campaign spent much more than Trump 's on directly contacting voters , reporting a combined $25.4 million on text message outreach , canvassing , phone calls and direct mail . Trump 's campaign spent $3 million on " SMS advertising " and just $1,500 on direct mail printing and posting , underscoring how the campaign outsourced much of its field operation to other groups . <p> Harris ' campaign also spent a much larger share of its funds on events , racking up at least $45.5 million in payments ( 17% of its total operating expenses in this report ) to pay for event production , audio and visual services , equipment rental , supplies and event security . <p> The Trump campaign , meanwhile , reported spending $632,000 , or less than 1% of its operating expenditures , on events . <p> The Harris campaign paid $165,000 to a production company affiliated with Beyonc ? Knowles-Carter , who spoke at a late October rally in Houston . Companies affiliated with musicians Katy Perry , Ricky Martin and Christina Aguilera ( all three of whom appeared at Harris events in the closing weeks of the campaign ) received six-figure payments as well . And others affiliated with musicians like Bruce Springsteen , John Legend and Jason Isbell received smaller checks , too . <p> The celebrities themselves were not paid , a campaign official previously told NBC News , but the campaign had to pay for costs associated with production and their travel . Campaign finance laws dictate that campaigns have to pay market value for anything they receive , including entertainment at events . <p> ? ? More number crunching : The new campaign finance reports also revealed that billionaire Elon Musk poured more than $20 million into a mysterious super PAC at the end of the campaign , part of more than $250 million he spent overall to boost Trump . Read more ? 
@@118545004 <h> The historic appointment of Harvard 's first Black female president was one of the most troubled chapters in its history <p> Dr. Claudine Gay , former President of Harvard University , testifies before the House Education and Workforce Committee at the Rayburn House Office Building on December 05 , 2023 . Kevin Dietsch/Getty Images <p> Part one of this collaboration with WNYC 's On The Media begins with Claudine Gay 's history-making inauguration as Harvard 's first Black president in September 2023 , seen by many as an inspirational moment for the university . <p> After war breaks out in the Middle East , Gay struggles to navigate bitter campus protests over war , antisemitism , free speech , and the proper role of the university . The tensions are on full display when Gay testifies under oath , providing legalistic answers to outraged members of Congress . <p> Advertisement <p> Claudine Gay 's short tenure as Harvard 's 30th president , a job she started two days after the Supreme Court struck down Harvard 's program of race-based affirmative action , is seen by some as a symbol of what 's wrong with diversity efforts . <p> It 's also a warning to all colleges and universities that face a hostile incoming administration that has pledged to use its power to bring them into line . <p> This series slows down the whipsaw chain of events to bring listeners direct eyewitness accounts of what happened , from professors , wealthy donors , and spiritual leaders . <p> Read the transcription below . <p> MARRITZ : Harvard is the oldest and richest university in America . The governing board calls itself the oldest corporation in the Western Hemisphere . If Harvard were a human being , its endowment alone would make it the 18th richest billionaire on the Forbes list . <p> I spent a year at Harvard as a visiting journalist on a fellowship . <p> From the moment I arrived , I kept noticing how much people at Harvard think about power . Analyzing it . Quantifying it . Forming the people who will hold it . Just this past semester , the course catalog included more than 250 classes with the word " leadership " in their description . " Leadership , " as I eventually figured out , is Harvard speak for " power . " <p> When I first got there in the fall of 2023 , I 'd go to the main library and roam the stacks inhaling the scent of old books . And on my way back out , I 'd pause at the top of the granite steps , and look across the yard , crisscrossed by footpaths . Workers were hanging banners , building a stage for a big party . Harvard was about to inaugurate a new president . <p> Advertisement <p> Nobody knew then that the aftermath of that celebration would be a spectacular torching of Harvard 's reputation . That Harvard 's own assumptions about how power works , its own blind spots , would be used against it . By a bunch of Harvard grads . <p> And then , one Friday in September , the brass band struck up a tune and the celebration began . <p> GROYSMAN : I think no one expected , uh , that it 's gon na be so rainy . MARRITZ : This is my friend Sonya Groysman . She 's a journalist from Russia . She and I went to the inauguration together . We sat on folding chairs , as it started to drizzle . GROYSMAN : And I remember us saying something like , oh , it 's like at Harry Potter . Remember ? MARRITZ : It really did look like Hogwarts , with all these professors in colorful robes and mortarboard caps passing by . When Harvard 's new president , Claudine Gay , swept past , I snapped a photo . I still have it on my phone . Here is a Black woman , with short hair , in chunky glasses . Smiling , waving . Her body language says : thank you for throwing me this party , you really should n't have . If her inauguration had a one-word theme it was .... FINALLY . MATOS-RODRIGUEZ : This community is thrilled by her historic appointment as Harvard 's first black leader and its only second woman president . MARRITZ : Gay 's parents immigrated to the United States from Haiti . SADLAK : Many students felt that this moment called us to repair past harms and actively step into a more just future . MARRITZ : One speaker after another talked about this event as historic , as a kind of correction . SADLAK : Many look to our next president to guide us through this reckoning . We are lucky enough to have found that person in President Gay . MARRITZ : As a scholar , Gay studied Black participation in politics . Later , she became an administrator , the dean of the faculty of arts and sciences . So here was change , grafted on to tradition . HODGES : I invite President Emeritus Lawrence Summers to present two silver keys , which represent the opening of Doors to Knowledge and Truth . MARRITZ : For much of the ceremony , Larry Summers , probably the most famous living former Harvard president , was sitting with his fingertips pressed together , looking grim . Now he rose to give Gay a pair of very oversized keys on a ring , and she held them up for everyone to see . There is something about this moment . It 's not only the visual of a new president , who looks different from her predecessors . It 's also the timing . Harvard had just lost a major legal challenge to its admissions policies that went all the way to the Supreme Court . At stake , the future of race-based affirmative action . JUSTICE ROBERTS : We 'll hear argument next in case 20-11-99 , Students For Fair admissions versus The President and Fellows of Harvard College . Mr Norris ? MARRITZ : The court ruled against the university , overturning almost five decades of precedent . The ruling would set the guidelines not only for Harvard , but for nearly all colleges and universities . PRITZKER : Madam president . The chair is yours . GAY : Right . Thank you . And thank you for soldiering through the rain . The theme of Gay 's inaugural speech was courage . The courage to ask why , why not ? The courage to pose the questions that lead to research breakthroughs , and great insights . Without directly addressing the Supreme Court , Gay said Harvard has a commitment ... GAY : ... to draw from a deeper pool of talent and provide our institution with the excellence it deserves and our diverse society with the leaders it needs and expects . MARRITZ : But what really stands out , watching it now , after everything that 's happened , is that Claudine Gay 's speech kind of anticipates what 's to come . GAY : We are in a moment of declining trust in institutions of all kinds of endless access to information , but doubts and conflict about who and what to believe . Of political polarization so extreme that gridlock is preferred to pragmatic collaboration . MARRITZ : Her read on this is pretty precise . But her ideas for rebuilding trust are hazy . GAY : It lies partly in our courage to face our imperfections and mistakes , to turn outward with a fresh and open spirit , meeting a doubtful and restless society with audacious and uplifting ambitions , present ... MARRITZ : It was Friday , September 29 , 2023 . MOORE : President Gay . You got this . MARRITZ : Anything seemed possible . MOORE : And we got you . CHEERS MARRITZ : This series is about what happened next . About the very strange , very fast sequence of events that led to the premature end of Claudine Gay 's presidency , and a pretty major change of direction across American institutions . The same institutions Gay worried were losing public trust . More university presidents quit . More companies backed off of efforts aimed at diversity and racial reconciliation . MARRITZ : The thing that set it all off : a letter from a group hardly anyone had no one had heard of , about a war thousands of miles away . FELDMAN : Imagine that you came from Mars and said , I 'm trying to learn about you strange people on Earth . MARRITZ : Harvard Law professor Noah Feldman . FELDMAN : And I know that on October 7th , Hamas attacked Israel . And I know that three months later , give or take , Claudine Gay resigned the presidency . And I know there 's some connection . But what was it again ? It would take a whole podcast or a whole book to try to explain it , and even then the Martian would still say , probably , gosh , you people , you 're living in a very strange and complicated world . MARRITZ : Most of the voices you 're going to hear in this series come with advanced degrees , many of them Harvard degrees . These denizens of the success factory have much in common , but this crisis divides them . KENNEDY : I was deeply saddened . I still am deeply saddened by it . I thought that she was mistreated ... ACKMAN : I wanted her to be fired , because of failures of leadership , failure to stop an emergence of antisemitism on campus . HOLLEY : Because of gender and race you do n't get any credits . All those credits you think you 've been building up for years , the credits are always at zero . MARRITZ : Before I came to Harvard , I covered Donald Trump and extremism and the fraying of democratic institutions . I went to do this fellowship , and go back to college , to get away from all that . But it felt like those same forces followed me to the university . They became impossible to ignore . And so I got work trying to understand what the heck just happened . BURNS : So it was over the weekend . It was Saturday night . They published the letter . MARRITZ : This is my Globe colleague Hilary Burns , who covers higher education . BURNS : I was in Vermont , you know , not working , but obviously the news of October 7th was all over the news . MARRITZ : Within hours , Hilary Burns heard that a Harvard student group had put out a letter that was getting noticed . BURNS : I remember thinking people were going to be very angry about this MARRITZ : The letter was written by the Harvard Undergraduate Palestine Solidarity Committee and originally co-signed by 33 other Harvard student organizations and it blamed Israel , entirely , for the attack . Quote ; " Today 's events did not occur in a vacuum , " the statement reads . " For the last two decades , millions of Palestinians in Gaza have been forced to live in an open-air prison .... In the coming days , Palestinians will be forced to bear the full brunt of Israel 's violence . The apartheid regime is the only one to blame . " BURNS : I knew that this issue in particular had been so divisive and contentious over the years before this . And it caused a lot of rifts at Harvard in the past . MARRITZ : By Monday , the letter had gone viral . Some people said it was antisemitic . BURNS : I mean , there were members of Congress , Larry Summers , prominent alumni , tweeting -- it , it was making international headlines . NEWSREEL : Tonight there is growing backlash to a letter signed by nearly 3 dozen student groups at Harvard ... NEWSREEL : ... now executives in finance and tech want the students blacklisted , several students have already apologized ... BURNS : ... and at that point Monday during the work hours , Harvard administration had not yet put out a statement at all . MARRITZ : Claudine Gay spent the previous night at Hillel - the Jewish student center on campus . The place was packed . Some students demanded that Harvard respond to the letter from the Undergraduate Palestine Solidarity Committee with some kind of official condemnation . Gay told them that in her view , statements do n't bring healing . Showing up in person can . The next day , seeing no public statement , former Harvard President Larry Summers -- the man who gave Gay the ceremonial keys to knowledge and truth -- took to X to criticize the university for its silence . An official statement signed by Claudine Gay and the university 's deans appeared later that day . Harvard leadership had in fact spent much of the weekend hashing out the wording . Summers responded on Bloomberg TV . SUMMERS : In the same way that previous leaders flew the Ukrainian flag over Harvard yard after Putin 's invasion I thought it was appropriate for there to be a strong Harvard statement condemning in the strongest possible terms Hamas terrorism . MARRITZ : Harvard 's statement on the Hamas attack actually came out faster than Harvard 's earlier condemnations of Russia 's invasion of Ukraine , or the killing of George Floyd . But : those letters showed passion , moral clarity . This was much more ... removed . Some saw it as anti-Israel , for not mentioning the hostages , not using the word terrorism , and for drawing a kind of grammatical equivalence between Israel and Hamas . The following day , under pressure , Claudine Gay put out another statement aimed at diffusing the outrage . Take two is short and clear , and signed only by her . BURNS : She said that that statement does not speak for Harvard . It really separated her from that student 's statement that had angered so many people . If that was supposed to close the book on the episode , now trucks had started circling campus displaying the names and headshots of students with the words " Harvard 's leading anti-semites . " NEWSREEL : A digital billboard parked right outside of Harvard University is attracting a lot of attention -- the names and faces of Harvard students are displayed under the title Harvard 's Leading Antisemites . MARRITZ : Some of the students being called out had n't signed the letter , or even known about it . BURNS : Students were really freaked out and afraid . And at that point , we were seeing alumni on Twitter and including hedge fund billionaire Bill Ackman doubling down on this and saying , you know , Harvard needs to release the names of students affiliated with this statement , so we know on Wall Street not to hire them . Some students did lose job offers . WOLPE : Um , she called me . MARRITZ : Around this time , Rabbi David Wolpe received a phone call . Wolpe was a visiting scholar at Harvard 's divinity school . But before that he led a large , diverse congregation in Los Angeles . In that role , he had to be attuned to potential disputes , and balance the wishes of more liberal American-born members with those of more conservative Iranian-born congregants . BLM lawn sign -- no . Gay marriages ? -- yes . So , Rabbi Wolpe 's phone was ringing . He picked up . WOLPE : She said , this is Claudine Gay . She said , she realized that the campus was , you know , exploding with this and this was not her expertise . MARRITZ : More acutely than the content of the call Wolpe remembers this -- WOLPE : she was clearly deeply shaken . I mean , she was very emotional on the call . She was having a hard time . And who would n't in her position ? MARRITZ : Gay asked Rabbi Wolpe to join a task force on anti-semitism . He said yes , of course . She also asked him for a reading list . WOLPE : Books that would give her both the history of the conflict and also some deeper understanding of Jewish history and why Jews feel the way they do in response to what 's been going on . So I made a suggestion of a couple of books . I do n't know that she ever got the time to read them , but I did make the suggestions . MARRITZ : It 's hard to imagine now , but that October , and into November , it was still possible to kind of ignore the noise . I did n't really notice any protests . The students in my classes just wanted to get ahead . Still , things were happening . BURNS : there were a couple of incidents that were very high profile , MARRITZ : The Globe 's Hilary Burns BURNS : including the one at the business school where there was a peaceful die in where people were just lying on the ground , holding , holding signs , calling for a cease fire . And a student came out walked through the crowd like filming students and some kind of altercation happened . MARRITZ : In this video that was posted online , a person who has been identified as an Israeli student is kind of mobbed by a big group of people holding up keffiyehs , shouting what sounds like " shame ! " Shame ! Shame ! Shame ! Shame ! Shame ! BURNS : We do n't really know what to make of what happened . The prosecution of two pro Palestinian graduate students who were charged with assault and battery and a civil rights violation is still playing out in the courts . MARRITZ : For some Harvard alumni this incident and others were a tipping point . MARRITZ : What is the Mark connection ? You guys were friends at Harvard or what ? LESSIN : we were - friends would be an overstatement . We knew each other . MARRITZ : Sam Lessin class of 2005 , is a tech executive who has worked at Facebook . He was there at the same time as Mark Zuckerberg ( who did not graduate . ) LESSIN : We knew each other in college . We became close years later . MARRITZ : Lessin had been hearing murmurs about bad things happening at Harvard for a while . But he did n't buy it . LESSIN : I started hearing like everyone else for the trigger warnings and then I 'm like , wow , there are trigger warnings ? Like we talked about some crazy stuff . and so you kind of get a sense that things are changing here or there . You know , people worry about antisemitism . They worry about what can and ca n't be said , what does and does n't happen on campus . You know disinvited speakers . You kind of see this drumbeat . But again , I , pre ten- seven in the last fall really was the one who defended the university pretty consistently in my friend group being like , yup , look , this stuff is complicated . MARRITZ : Lessin had given hundreds of thousands of dollars to Harvard in the past . But now he was questioning that . LESSIN : I 'm like , my God , I 'm the one who 's wrong here . And that sucks . ACKMAN : I went up to campus and I met with hundreds of students in small groups and larger groups and they 're like Bill , why is the president doing nothing ? Why is the administration doing nothing ? And that was really the beginning . MARRITZ : This is tape from the Lex Fridman podcast - the guest is Bill Ackman , Harvard college class of ' 88 , MBA 1992 , who 'd given Harvard millions . He was on his own , parallel journey . Ackman is a wildly successful hedge fund manager known for picking big public fights with companies he thinks are mismanaged . He once successfully browbeat Wendy 's into selling off the Tim Horton 's chain of donut shops . Reaching out to Harvard 's leadership -- ACKMAN : It reminded me of , you know , like early days of activism where I could n't get the CEO of Wendy 's to return my call . I could n't get the CEO , CEO of Harvard , you know , take a meeting . MARRITZ : Bill Ackman bailed on an interview with us , last minute . Like Sam Lessin , he experienced a kind of awakening about Harvard . ACKMAN : They started talking to me about this oppressor-oppressed , uh , framework . I had not even heard of this . Basically they 're like , look , Israel is deemed an oppressor and the Palestinians are deemed the oppressed . MARRITZ : Many of Harvard 's critics once considered themselves liberal or center left . But the crisis at Harvard worked like a wedge , you could see it prying off a segment of rich and influential supporters , in real time . The story was reaching critical mass , and Congress got interested . Specifically , the Republican-controlled House Committee on Education and the Workforce . Near the end of November , Claudine Gay and two other college presidents agreed to testify in a hearing on anti-semitism at colleges . Rabbi Wolpe , the guy who had sent Gay the reading list ? He texted her with an offer . WOLPE : I knew that she was going into the hearings , and I thought I could help . And so I tried to persuade her to let me supply her with quotes from the Bible or the Talmud or the Jewish sages , something that would show that she was taking this seriously MARRITZ : Wolpe wanted Gay to succeed , but he had serious doubts about how Harvard was responding to the crisis . He had joined the advisory group on anti-semitism , which brought him face to face with a number of university leaders . Where Wolpe saw a five alarm fire , he says Harvard just did n't . WOLPE : I do n't want to speak specifically for President Gay , but , I mean , it was from everything that we heard , some of it official , some of it unofficial , the corporation , which is the board that oversees Harvard . The deans , everybody thought that it was going to eventually peter out and go away , in part because they saw , which was true , that many students were not involved and did n't care and just came to class and so on . And I do n't think they realized that for the students who were involved , this was an epochal event . Still , Wolpe thought Gay would be well served to quote from a holy book when she went before Congress , to show she was simpatico with the Jewish people , and attuned to Jewish suffering . MARRITZ : Did you have a specific quotation citation in mind ? WOLPE : I think I had a couple that I thought of , but I do n't really remember now what they were . But it 's easy to find , you know , relevant citations for peaceful , you know , interaction for learned debate or whatever . I do n't know what I would have come up with . MARRITZ : What did she say ? WOLPE : She thanked me very much . MARRITZ : She said , thank you for the suggestion , and that 's it . WOLPE : Yeah , basically . GAY : During these difficult days , I have felt the bonds of our community strain . In response , I have sought to confront hate while preserving free expression . This is difficult work , and I know that I have not always gotten it right . MARRITZ : When the day comes , and the CSPAN camera is on her , Gay does not cite the torah or the talmud . She talks like the administrator she is . GAY : We at Harvard reject anti Semitism and denounce any trace of it on our campus or within our community . Anti Semitism is a symptom of ignorance , and the cure for ignorance is knowledge . Harvard must model what it means to preserve free expression while combating prejudice and preserving the security of our community . MARRITZ : For a hearing in which members profess to be alarmed about rising anti-semitism , there is shockingly little fact-finding . Hatred of Jews is construed broadly , to include contested terms , like Intifada . Members of Congress do n't want to hear about the fine points of balancing free expression with the need for public safety . For the three college presidents , it 's a ritual beating , lasting more than five hours . STEFANIK : Dr. Kornbluth . KORNBLUTH : Yes . STEFANIK : Does MIT does calling for the genocide of Jews violate MIT 's code of conduct or rules regarding bullying and harassment ? Yes or no ? MARRITZ : If there is one part of this story that is probably very familiar to you it 's the barrage of confrontational questions from New York congresswoman Elise Stefanik , Harvard College class of 2006 . Currently the nominee for ambassador to the United Nations . STEFANIK : Ms. Magill , at Penn , does calling for the genocide of Jews violate Penn 's rules or code of conduct ? Yes or no ? MAGILL : If the speech turns into conduct , it can be harassment , yes . STEFANIK : I am asking . Specifically calling for the genocide of Jews . Does that constitute bullying or harassment ? MAGILL : If it is directed and severe or pervasive , it is harassment . STEFANIK : So the answer is yes . MAGILL : It is a context dependent decision , Congresswoman . - STEFANIK : It 's a context dependent decision ? That 's your testimony today , calling for the genocide of Jews is depending upon the context . And Dr. Gay , at Harvard , does calling for the genocide of Jews violate Harvard 's rules of bullying and harassment , yes or no ? GAY : It can be , depending on the context . STEFANIK : What 's the context ? GAY : Targeted as an individual , targeted at an individual . STEFANIK : It 's targeted at Jewish students , Jewish individuals . Do you understand your testimony is dehumanizing them ? Do you understand that dehumanization is part of antisemitism ? I will ask you one more time . Does calling for the genocide of Jews violate Harvard 's rules of bullying and harassment ? Yes or no ? ACKMAN : I was in the barber chair , if you will , getting a haircut . MARRITZ : Bill Ackman -- remember , the hedge fund guy , class of ' 88 -- was watching . And multi-tasking . ACKMAN : And , I had a guy in my team send me the three minute section . I said , you know , cut that line of questioning . And I put out a little tweet on that . And , I call it my greatest hits of posts . Got something like 110 million views and , and , everyone looked at this and said , what is wrong with , you know , university campuses . MARRITZ : Rabbi Wolpe was watching too . And he too had a tweet . Before he hit send , he called Claudine Gay , to let her know he had decided to quit Harvard 's anti-semitism advisory group . Then he shared the letter on social . It happened to be the start of that year 's festival of lights . WOLPE : Resigning : a Hanukkah message . MARRITZ : This tweet also went viral . Rabbi Wolpe read the letter to me . WOLPE : I believe Claudine Gay to be both a kind and thoughtful person . Most of the students here wish only to get an education and a job , not prosecute ideological agendas . MARRITZ : But -- WOLPE : the system at Harvard , along with the ideology that grips far too many of the students and faculty , the ideology that works only along axes of oppression and places Jews as oppressors and therefore intrinsically evil , is itself evil . Ignoring Jewish suffering is evil . MARRITZ : Claudine Gay declined my invitation to do an interview . I ended up spending a lot of time talking with a different college president . HOLLEY : Hi . I 'm Danielle Holley . Last name is H O L L E Y. I 'm the 20th president of Mount Holyoke College . MARRITZ : Like Claudine Gay , Holley is a Black woman who attended Harvard in the late 1990s . Gay got a PhD . Holley went to the law school . And they have something else in common . They were both new on the job last year . HOLLEY : I started on July 1st , 2023 , the same day as Claudine Gay started . MARRITZ : Holley watched the hearings with a growing sense of disbelief . All three presidents - like her - were at the beginning of their tenures . And yet -- HOLLEY : They were being accused of basically creating an atmosphere of hatred inside of universities that they had not led for years . So how could they , either one of them , be responsible , right , for the atmosphere inside of their universities ? MARRITZ : And there was something in the particular discourse around Claudine Gay that felt familiar . Holley says the scrutiny is intense if you 're a Black woman and a first . HOLLEY : The jury is always out . Right , there 's a sense that even though you hold that position , that it 's really not yours . You are someone who is temporarily holding the reins , but you 're still an outsider . MARRITZ : Danielle Holley and Claudine Gay did n't really know each other . They 'd met once , on the side-lines of a one-week summer camp that Harvard runs for new college presidents . I know . I had no idea . What 's really interesting is that this seminar included an almost two-hour session on handling the kind of out-of-nowhere crises that can undermine a new president . HOLLEY : crisis management , of course , in the summer of 2023 was mostly Covid related . We were thinking about what happens with the next pandemic , but we did not spend a lot of time thinking about kind of what happens in a crisis of the kind that we had over the last year in higher ed . An emotionally fraught social-media fueled bleep-storm where donors are in revolt and public statements are everything , just was n't on the radar . When that actually happened , Holley took an approach that was totally different from Harvard 's . She refused to say anything publicly , except to release a letter . HOLLEY : It 's now become known around here . We call it the statement on statements MARRITZ : The letter explained that although past presidents of Mount Holyoke had weighed in on big issues of the day , starting now the school would only speak on subjects that directly concerned it . This had been Holley 's own policy for a decade . Going back to her previous job as dean of the law school at Howard , a historically black university . HOLLEY : I came to Howard July 1st of 2014 , which was only a few weeks before Michael Brown was killed in Ferguson . immediately people said , well , are you going to issue a statement on behalf of the law school about the killing of Michael Brown ? I said , no , I 'm not going to do that because my duty is to educate lawyers who will then turn around and make real transformation in the criminal law system . So I do n't have time to write or do what I considered at the time to be performative statements . Like at Howard Law School , Holley 's no-statements rule at Mount Holyoke made some people angry . Students accused her of condoning genocide through her silence . There were complaints from alumni . HOLLEY : If donors were not upset and did n't threaten to take money away , that would be a surprise . I think the question is how do you react , right ? MARRITZ : What I learned from Danielle Holley is that when you 're a new president , you do n't get a lot of grace . The donors may not know you or trust you . It 's a fragile time , and you need the board to show a united front with its chosen president . For Holley , it 's like , Bear with me here . MARRITZ : We are going to manage this crisis in a certain way . When we come out on the other side of the crisis , I will come visit you and talk to you about not what happened this week , not what happened this month , but what happened over the course of a year or what happened over the course of 18 months . But that 's easier to say when you 're an experienced president . Claudine Gay was five months into the job when she went before Congress . She , and the other two presidents gave almost identical answers on the question of whether a call for genocide violated university speech codes . The moment echoed across social media , open to wild interpretation ..... and now , their jobs were at stake . Two days after the hearing , the MIT board put out a letter of support , full of praise for its president , Sally Kornbluth . She is still in the job today . At the University of Pennsylvania , it was clear that the board was done with President Liz Magill . She resigned . BOK : The world should know that Liz McGill is a very good person and a talented leader who was beloved by her team . She is not the slightest bit anti-Semitic . MARRITZ : This is Scott Bok . He was chair of the board of trustees at U Penn . He resigned that position , right after Liz Magill , and made this letter public . BOK : Working with her was one of the great pleasures of my life . Worn down by months of relentless external attacks . She was not herself last Tuesday , overprepared and over lawyered . Given the hostile forum and high stakes , she provided a legalistic answer to a moral question , and that was wrong . It made for a dreadful 30 second sound bite . And what was more than five hours of testimony . I wish Liz well in her future endeavors . I believe that in the fullness of time , people will come to view the story of her presidency at Penn very differently than they do today . MARRITZ : As for Harvard , the Board was initially silent . Claudine Gay seemed to be alone . She apologized in the pages of the Harvard Crimson . " I am sorry , " she said . " Words matter . " It was n't totally clear what she was apologizing for though . She had been guided to give legally meticulous answers . The advice came from a trusted Harvard insider . Bill Lee , Harvard College class of 72 . Lee is a partner at a major law firm , and a former leader of the Harvard Corporation . He represented Harvard in the big affirmative action case it had just lost at the Supreme Court . As the crisis deepened , the Harvard Corporation increasingly turned to him - one person told me he was " like a field general . " It 's possible that someone else - a fresh , outside voice - would have counseled Gay differently . Rabbi Wolpe - remember , he was the one who suggested that Gay quote from the Jewish sages - he was disappointed by the " lack of passion " she showed . A law professor told me Gay could have given the answers Congress wanted to hear , and then amended her testimony later , for the record . But that 's not what happened . Bill Lee declined our requests for comment . So did the current first fellow of the Harvard Corporation , Penny Pritzker , class of 1981 , who led the group that hired Gay . After the hearing A full week passed before The Harvard Corporation made a statement in support of Claudine Gay . But by then , a new crisis was upon them . Newsreel : University says Claudine Gay has now asked that corrections be made to her 1998 dissertation because of what it called inadequate citations . VOX : Harvard is committed to DEI and Claudine Gay 's race protectd her from losing her job it 's outrageous . MARRITZ : That 's next time . 
@@118545814 <p> BEIRUT -- Middle East observers would be forgiven for thinking they were in a time machine when Syria 's rebels blitzed last week through the country 's northwestern regions , capturing Aleppo in a stunning advance that has reignited the country 's long-dormant civil war . <p> Over the past seven days , the rebels -- long considered a fractured , hopelessly compromised force -- have routed Syrian army troops from their bases and positions , making gains in Idlib , Aleppo and Hama provinces . The offensive represents the most serious threat since 2019 to Syrian President Bashar Al-Assad and his backers in Iran and Russia . <p> After an initial retreat , loyalist forces are regrouping , with reports of Syrian army units and Iranian-backed Iraqi militias mobilizing toward Hama to stay the opposition 's advance . Meanwhile , Russian warplanes have launched airstrikes on overrun neighborhoods of Aleppo and pounded rebel-held areas to the north . The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights , a watchdog group with a network of activists in the country , says more than 600 people have been killed in the recent fighting , including more than 100 civilians . <p> Advertisement <p> The clashes have brought back to attention a civil war that has largely fallen out of the headlines despite never really ending . <p> Here 's a look at what happened and what it could mean for the different players . <p> Ten years later , Syria 's civil war , with its untold numbers of dead , serves as a bleak example of possibility and hope crushed by conflict and chaos . <p> March 14 , 2021 <h> Who is involved and why is it important ? <p> The belligerents are the last survivors of Syria 's hugely destructive civil war , which began in 2011 as another Arab Spring revolution , with antigovernment protesters demanding Assad leave . <p> The government moved to destroy them , unleashing troops and state-backed thugs in a wave of brutality . That triggered an armed rebellion that , at its peak , comprised dozens of armed factions across the country , including Gulf-backed Islamist militias , Islamic State and Al-Qaeda affiliates , and moderate groups supported by the U.S. and other Western countries . <p> Advertisement <p> But they could never fully unite . Assad fought back , calling upon Iran and Tehran-backed armed groups including Lebanon 's Hezbollah , to bolster his troops . In 2015 , Russia entered on the government side , turning the tide of the war in Assad 's favor . <p> By the time the war settled into a stalemate around 2019 , more than half a million people were killed , millions more displaced or made refugees , and the country was in ruins . But Assad controlled 70% of it . <p> The rest was balkanized under three rival administrations : One in the northwest province of Idlib , led by the Hayat Tahrir Al-Sham ( HTS ) , a jihadist group once linked to Al-Qaeda ( it disassociated in 2016 ) and which remains designated a terrorist group by the U.S ; a coalition of Turkish-supported militias that rule -- with Ankara 's assistance -- a portion of the north ; and the Syrian Democratic Forces , a Kurdish militia that controls a U.S.-backed protectorate in the country 's northeast , with some 900 U.S. soldiers stationed in the area to prevent the resurgence of Islamic State . <p> Advertisement <p> That dizzying array of fighters and patrons means what happens in Syria is unlikely to stay in Syria . A change in who rules the country would have ripple effects across the region , and would represent a significant upset in the rivalry between the U.S. and Russia , not to mention Iran . <h> Why did the offensive start now ? <p> Events in Syria can not be detached from the fallout of the Oct. 7 , 2023 , Hamas attacks on Israel . Israel 's subsequent war in Lebanon has weakened Hezbollah and with it Iran , both of them crucial Assad allies . Russia too is distracted with its own war in Ukraine , meaning it has less forces to devote to Assad 's survival . <p> Israel , which occupies Syria-claimed Golan Heights , is also focusing its ire on Iran 's proxy forces . In recent months , it has intensified its attacks on Iran-affiliated groups in Syria , further degrading Tehran 's power . <p> Mustafa Sello strode up to the soldiers loitering by the green buses near southern Aleppo 's Ramousseh crossing , where they waited to evacuate the last residents out of the city 's eastern districts . <p> Dec. 23 , 2016 <h> What is happening on the ground ? <p> The offensive is spearheaded by HTS and some of its jihadist allies , along with a Turkish-backed umbrella group called the Syrian National Army . They launched a two-pronged attack , and have taken over an estimated 170 square miles of territory . That includes Aleppo , Syria 's second-largest city and its economic powerhouse , which the rebels first entered in 2012 before being ousted four years later . <p> Now they are poised to chomp off parts of the country 's center . They 've also netted significant amounts of weapons and supplies , including jet planes and helicopters from the Syrian army . <p> On Wednesday , state-run media reported the Syrian army had clawed back some territory in Hama and was planning a counterattack . <p> Advertisement <h> What does it mean for Assad and his allies ? <p> Before this rebel resurgence , Assad 's survival seemed a fait accompli . The war had hollowed out his government and the army , and forced him to pawn whatever remained to Iran and Russia , but Assad nevertheless believed he was secure enough to wait out his opponents . He refused to negotiate with the opposition or Turkey , and insisted the U.S. leave the country . <p> Assad 's biggest loss may be among Syrians living under his rule . Many sided with him less out of genuine loyalty than fear of chaos , looting and persecution under the fragmented opposition . Yet army troops proved unable or unwilling to protect the local population , offering little resistance and resorting to airstrikes on Aleppo -- moves that are unlikely to endear the government to the local population . <p> At the same time , a large number of the participating factions espouse jihadist ideologies most Syrians reject . But so far the opposition has been careful with civilians . Videos on social media depict bearded fighters walking down city streets , reassuring Christians and other minorities of their safety . And activists say fighters have been disciplined in not harassing residents . <p> If the opposition can keep its gains , maintain cohesion and rehabilitate its image among Syrians , Assad may be forced into serious concessions in exchange for his survival . <p> One idea floated in recent days is that Assad turn away from Moscow and Tehran in exchange for sanctions relief . For Iran , that would mean the loss of a major node in the logistics train it uses to supply Hezbollah . It would also further weaken the so-called Axis of Resistance , the Iran-led constellation of governments and paramilitary factions arrayed against the U.S. and Israel . <p> Russia , which has a presence on Syria 's Mediterranean coast , would lose a reliable client in the region , not to mention an airbase in the Middle East and the only warm-water port for its navy . <p> Advertisement <p> For the moment , neither Assad nor his allies show signs of backing down . In statements and interviews , government officials insist the army is on the attack against rebels , whom they call terrorists , and Iranian emissaries have pledged to back Assad to the hilt . Russia has scrambled its warplanes to attack rebel-controlled areas in Idlib and Aleppo . <p> At first glance , there is little indication of the vicious fighting that took place here . <p> Feb. 5 , 2018 <h> What does Turkey get out of it ? <p> Turkey has been backing the opposition since 2011 and has shouldered the largest number of refugees from the fighting . It initially insisted Assad must go , but almost 14 years later , the greater priority for Turkish President Recep Tayyep Erdogan is to send refugees back home , and destroy the SDF , the Kurdish militia he believes is linked to Ankara-proscribed Kurdistan Workers ' Party , or PKK . <p> In their capture of Aleppo , the rebels now encircle several neighborhoods controlled by the SDF , and have promised the Kurdish fighters safe passage to northeast Syria . It is unclear if they have done so . <p> A success against the Kurds now is likely to play well for Turkey when Trump enters office next month . During his first term , Trump repeatedly tried to withdraw U.S. troops from Syria , decrying their deployment there as a costly-but-useless foreign intervention . A Kurdish defeat may convince him staying is no longer tenable . <h> Is this a win for the U.S. and Israel ? <p> Leaders in both countries would be pleased to see Assad go . But if he stays on the condition of curtailing Iranian and Russian influence , it 's still a win because Iran would n't be able to ferry arms to Hezbollah or threaten Israel through Syria , and it would lose a major outlet for its sanctioned economy . Russia 's loss in Syria would allow the U.S. a freer hand in the region . <p> Still , war in Syria has proved to be a transnational problem in the past , when the resurgence of Islamic State saw the U.S. lead a coalition of countries in a years-long campaign to destroy the extremist group . The conflicts there have also sparked a refugee exodus that altered Europe 's political landscape and empowered anti-immigrant right-wing parties . Iraq and Jordan face being destabilized , adding to their woes amid the turmoil of the ongoing conflicts in Gaza and Lebanon . <p> Advertisement <p> The chaos could also hit Israel . Assad so far has kept his forces out of the fight with Israel in its war with Hamas and Hezbollah . He has also put up little resistance to Israel 's repeated attacks against Iranian assets in the country . There are no guarantees that will continue . <p> Nabih Bulos is the Middle East bureau chief for the Los Angeles Times . Since 2012 , he has covered the aftermath of the " Arab Spring " revolution as well as the Islamic State 's resurgence and the campaign to defeat it . His work has taken him to Syria , Iraq , Libya , Turkey , Lebanon , Jordan and Yemen as well as on the migrant trail through the Balkans and northern Europe . A Fulbright scholar , Bulos is also a concert violinist who has performed with Daniel Barenboim , Valeri Gergyev and Bono . 
@@118545816 <h> Amid a cash shortage in Gaza , paper money is starting to disintegrate , adding to desperation <p> A cash shortage in the Gaza Strip has given rise to money repair shops and money brokers . In Deir al Balah , a parallel money market has emerged where people go from broker to broker trying to find the one who will cash their paycheck with the lowest commission . <p> In the devastated Gaza Strip , cash is king . But few banks remain standing and Israel 's blocking of bill and coin transfers in and out of the territory also means cash is scarce . <p> " People have been passing around the same bills for more than a year now , " says a jeweler who people pay to repair paper money . " Of course they 're tattered and fragile . " <p> The shortage has also given rise to money brokers and gangs controlling the last ATMs . <p> DEIR AL BALAH , Gaza Strip -- The tools of his newfound trade arrayed before him , Mohammad Al-Ashaqar , a jeweler for decades , prepares himself for the first of some 200 intricate repairs he performs every day . In his hand he holds neither gemstone nor gold , but a gossamer-thin 20-shekel note held together with tape . <p> He takes an X-acto knife , carefully peels off the old tape , cleans the residue , then applies transparent glue in a way to ensure the bill does n't break when it 's folded . <p> " It 's not easy , " Al-Ashqar , 48 , says of his work as a money repairman in a shop in Deir al Balah . " But I 've become quite good at it . " <p> Advertisement <p> In Deir al Balah , Mohammad al-Ashqar , a jeweler for decades , repairs worn-out Israeli shekels with simple tools like glue and an X-Acto knife , aiming to restore them as usable currency . Palestinian territories use the shekel as their primary currency . <p> " People have been passing around the same bills for more than a year now , " says Al-Ashqar , who was displaced from Gaza City . " Of course they 're tattered and fragile . " Most vendors refuse to accept worn-out paper money , he explains , and coins have fared little better . The most common 10-shekel coin is particularly susceptible to rust and wear and tear , and vendors have become suspicious as rumors abound that many of those available in Gaza are forgeries . <p> Advertisement <p> The result , Al-Ashqar says , is yet another indignity on Gaza residents : Even if you 're lucky enough to find the item you want and have the money to afford it , you still may not be able to buy it , because no seller will take your cash . <p> In the city center of Deir al Balah , money brokers work with piles of cash . Most vendors or cashiers will not accept worn out or damaged Israeli banknotes . <p> ( Bilal Shbair / Los Angeles Times ) <p> Advertisement <p> And counting on banks to recycle and recirculate the supply of bank notes simply is n't a possibility . <p> Before the war , Gaza had 10 banks , with 56 branches and 90 ATMs , financial experts say ; in July , the Norwegian Refugee Council said only 10% remained operational . Now the number of open branches ranges from a very few to , according to a Bank of Palestine manager , just one . <p> Although branches in northern Gaza still have money in their vaults , Israeli troops have prevented people from returning to the area and in any case , it would require bulldozers to dig out the vaults from the rubble , said the bank employee , who was not authorized to speak to the media . <p> Transporting cash around the enclave presents its own difficulties , whether because of the hostilities between Hamas and the Israeli army , the presence of gangs and looters , or the lack of armored vehicles and the fuel to run them . <p> COGAT , the Israeli Defense Ministry agency handling affairs in Palestinian territories , did not respond to questions regarding cash in Gaza . <p> Mohammad al-Ashqar , who took up work in Deir al Balah after fleeing Gaza City , often has line of customers waiting for money repair when he opens his jewelry shop . <p> ( Bilal Shbair / Los Angeles Times ) <p> Advertisement <p> The cash shortage has given rise not only to money fixers like Al-Ashqar , but also money brokers . In Al-Birka Square , a crowded marketplace area in Deir al Balah , a parallel money market has emerged where people flit from broker to broker trying to find the one who will cash their paycheck with the lowest commission . <p> " I have to hustle just to see some of my paycheck , " says Mohammad Al-Tawashi , a 49-year-old civil servant with the Palestinian Authority . The bank branch nearby , he says , has iron bars in front of its doors and there are never any clerks inside ; the ATM was destroyed by angry customers months ago . <p> " So I had to go through one of those vendor cashiers -- 28% commission , can you believe it ? " Al-Tawashi said . For every 1,000 shekels he transferred to the broker , he would receive 720 shekels in cash . <p> " It 's like handing them a chunk of my soul every month . This is n't living , it 's barely surviving . " <p> Bassam Temraz , a 67-year-old retired social worker , felt much the same . <p> " It 's brutal . Some days , I think I have to sell whatever is left in the house to get enough to feed my grandchildren and my wife , " he says . <p> Nearly everyone in Gaza is going hungry these days . In the north , experts say a full-blown famine may be underway amid aid issues for Palestinians in the Israel-Hamas war . <p> Nov. 22 , 2024 <p> " Every time I get my salary , it feels like I worked for nothing . " <p> For the brokers , it 's a profitable business . <p> " It 's a way for anyone with cash to earn money , " says Abdallah Al-Mzeiny , a 31-year-old former retail coffee seller who now works as a money broker , doing business all day in a cafe on Al-Birka Square called Actionha . <p> Advertisement <p> There , he meets customers who use the cafe 's Wi-Fi to transfer their salaries to him via a smartphone app , and -- depending on the day and the condition of the bills -- gives them cash minus a 28% commission . Al-Mzeiny purchases cash from local businessmen at a 24% premium . He makes roughly $100 a day , he says . <p> Al-Mzeiny understands his customers ' frustration . He has more than 10,000 shekels , worth more than $2,700 , in 10-shekel coins that no one will accept for fear that they 're not genuine . <p> Though some people can use cashless banking via their smartphones , not everyone has access to the internet or the electricity needed to keep their phones charged . And amid the destruction in Gaza , street vendors are unlikely to accept anything other than cash . <p> Criminal gangs , a growing problem as the Hamas government struggles to maintain control , have taken advantage and are now getting into the cash extortion business , seizing control of ATMs and charging people for their use , the Norwegian Refugee Council said . <p> Israeli shekels are laid out on a table in Actionha cafe in Deir al Balah , where money brokers have set up shop . Customers must order a hot drink and a WiFi ticket for nearly $2 . <p> ( Bilal Shbeir/Los Angeles Times ) <p> Advertisement <p> Unwilling to pay the hefty commissions , either to money brokers or gangs , some Gazans have resorted to bartering , whether in makeshift stalls on the streets or using social media such as Facebook and the Telegram messaging app . <p> In one Facebook group , a user offers a can of peas in exchange for one of fava beans ; another asks if anyone has a 5-pound chicken they 're willing to exchange for half a carton of eggs and 50 shekels . Others sell whatever goods they have in their home . <p> Many of those in despair turn to Al-Ashqar , the money fixer . <p> When he was displaced from Gaza City , he rented a shop in Deir al Balah to continue his jewelry work , with money repair as a sideline . But word got round , and now , as the day begins , he has a line of people snaking out his door , hoping he can turn their bills from waste paper to usable currency . <p> He 's trained his three assistants in the jewelry shop to do the same work . Between them , they can do more than 400 repairs a day . Depending on the condition of the bill , he charges two to three shekels , the equivalent of 55-82 cents . <p> Al-Ashqar has even begun to enjoy the work , he says . <p> " I 'll take some notes back to my tent to fix them , and wake up early to get them done , " he says , adding that it feels good to help people in some small way against the frustrations of daily life in Gaza . <p> " A lot of people come back to thank me because I helped them fix their banknotes , " he said . It 's a business , but , he added , " It 's become something of a hobby for me. " 
@@118546416 <p> Porfirio Elliott and Melissa hug after finding out they will be moved to a hotel at Humboldt Park , Friday , Dec. 6 , 2024 . Ald. Jessie Fuentes ( 26th ) said the city was arranging a hotel room for them as the city moved to remove the encampments in the park vowing that to provide space and shelters for the individuals at the camps . <h> Former President Barack Obama discussed pluralism , children from Gaza seeking medical care arrived in Chicago , and the city closed its biggest tent city in Humboldt Park . <p> Mardoqueo Hernandez Montufar , 35 , at his tent site at Humboldt Park , Friday , Dec. 6 , 2024 . The City moved to remove the encampments in the park vowing to provide space and shelters for the individuals at the camps . Anthony Vazquez/Sun-Times <p> Former President Barack Obama laughs as he leads a discussion about pluralism with community leaders during The Obama Foundation 's Democracy Forum at the Marriott Marquis on the Near South Side , Thursday , Dec. 5 , 2024 . <p> Ashlee Rezin/Sun-Times <p> Jennifer Farrell , principal designer and founder of Starshaped Press , demonstrates how to make business cards using a letterpress printing style on a platen press at Starshaped Press in Ravenswood on Small Business Saturday , Nov. 30 , 2024 . Pat Nabong/Sun-Times <p> Metal types , which are used for letterpress printing , are displayed at Starshaped Press in Ravenswood on Small Business Saturday , Nov. 30 , 2024 . Pat Nabong/Sun-Times <p> In 2017 , then-Ald . Danny Solis talked to Madigan about a deal the speaker wanted and mentioned a " quid pro quo . " It should have sent Madigan running , but he kept relying on Solis , who was wired by the feds . <p> Jason Lee said he lives downtown , abides by the residency rule requiring city employees to live in Chicago , and offered to produce the lease and utility bills to prove it . He said he is allowed to vote in Texas because Texas voting law says " if your separation from the state is temporary , you 're allowed to vote ... I do n't have to live there every day . " 
@@118548709 <p> REDMOND , Wash . -- A groundbreaking new study from a grassroots civil rights and advocacy organization serving the Muslim community sheds light on a troubling trend in our community . <p> The first-of-its-kind report from CAIR-WA reveals a majority of Muslims said they have experienced discrimination and hate crimes . CAIR-WA 's report revealed " the total percentage of respondents who experienced Islamophobic discrimination in the past year was 82.5% . " <p> For Adam Jamal , the head Imam at the Muslim Association of Puget Sound , the numbers the report were sobering , even saddening . <p> " 82.5% is a huge number , that 82.5% of Muslims have experienced discrimination , " he said . " It 's not surprising to me that it is that amount . I think that 's surprising ... it hurts that it 's a real number . " <p> To put things into perspective , according to World Population Review , approximately 27,400 Muslims currently live in Washington state . <p> The survey also shows nearly 40% of respondents experienced heightened discrimination since Oct. 7 , 2023 , when the war between Israel and Gaza began . <p> The numbers at least feel accurate to Jamal , who said he 's been hearing consistently from his congregation about their experiences with prejudice . <p> " People had shared with me their stories , and I asked them , ' Hey , can you share this story , ' and they did n't want to , " he said . " They said they did n't want to be targeted . They did n't feel safe sharing . " <p> One person wrote to the Imam , telling him , " I am sorry . I would n't want to go on any interview . I do n't need to bring attention to myself or the kids in this sick community we live in . Sorry . " <p> Jamal said he understands why no one would want to speak publicly to a local television station about the most hurtful parts of their lives , especially when it happens frequently . <p> " Many women have complained to me that they wear hijab , and it 's gotten pulled at at the grocery store , walking on the street , in town , all kinds of places , " Jamal added . <p> Kids are n't immune to the prejudice either . <p> " My community members have told me about their kids being bullied at school , religious phrases of Muslims being utilized in that bullying , " Jamal said . " As an example , the words ' Allahu Akbar , ' which means ' God is great , ' and for that to be utilized in our own bullying of our own children in school is really terrible . " <p> The mosque has also taken matters of protection into its own hands . <p> " We 've had armed security throughout the week , because of the attacks on mosques , churches and synagogues we saw , " Jamal said , adding that it has n't been an easy decision to make . <p> " We just feel like we have to defend ourselves against anyone who has ill intentions , and we ca n't trust anyone else to do it for us , " he said . <p> Jamal said he 's hopeful positive strides can be made through conversation and education . <p> " Read the report , help us to understand what can be done , " he said . " Let 's look at other communities and how they have fought against prejudice and discrimination and how can we organize events and workshops and classes whether it 's for corporate groups or educational groups , unions , whatever it takes . How can we get out there and share what Islam truly is , and we 're this local presence we 've been here for years , and we 'll continue to be here , and we do n't need to prove that we are American . " 
@@118556503 <p> The following article is an excerpt from the new edition of " In Review by David Ehrlich , " a biweekly newsletter in whichour Chief Film Critic and Head Reviews Editor rounds up the site 's latest reviews and muses about current events in the movie world . Subscribe here to receive the newsletter in your inbox every other Friday . <p> This week , IndieWire published our list of the 25 best films of the year , and once again it was objectively correct , obviously infallible , and universally celebrated by our readers . I joke , I joke ( we straight up forgot to include " Babygirl , " even though our entire staff is obsessed with it ) , but the Twitter pushback did seem to be much lighter than usual . Maybe the conversation has just shifted over to Reddit and Bluesky , or maybe @LisanAlGaib69 has simply come to accept that a zany Jewish comedy about Jason Schwartzman falling in love with Carol Kane might be a superior achievement to " Dune : Part 2 . " ( I just looked it up and @LisanAlGaib69 is a real account that belongs to someone named Gustavo , whose one and only post is a heartfelt eulogy for Stan Lee from 2018 . I hope they 're doing well . ) <p> Anyway , if the fear was that the residual impact of last year 's strikes would make 2024 a miserable year for good movies , the process of watching the likes of " Janet Planet , " " Chicken for Linda , " and " Inside the Yellow Cocoon Shell " get relegated to " honorable mention " status painted a very different picture . So did the films at the very top of our list , especially RaMell Ross ' astonishing " Nickel Boys , " which might be the best and most forward-thinking American film so far this decade . Some years may offer more life-altering masterpieces than others ( 2019 comes to mind ) , and the ones that do n't include a new Tom Cruise vehicle are definitely at a serious disadvantage , but there are good movies every yearyear , if you make the effort to look for them . <p> But I 'd argue that a certain number of good films does not necessarily make for " a good year for movies . " That can only be determined by how those films respond to existential questions for the medium at large . In 2024 , did cinema fight against the snowballing forces of cultural enshittification ( among the other , even more pernicious evils of our time ) ? Did it renew our faith in cinema 's unique ability to see us better in the darkness than we can see ourselves in the daylight ? Did it broaden our sense of what 's possible for this world , or did they simply flatter our desire to feel like we 're doing the best we can ? <p> After all , the movies have a unique ability to do that , too . <p> Want to read the rest ? Subscribe to In Review by David Ehrlich and you 'll be the first to read the latest insights from IndieWire 's chief critic David Ehrlich , along with the best of our film and TV reviews . <p> Written by Ian Wang , a fascinating and justifiably furious new piece in ArtReview has argued that the movies of 2024 failed us on every front that matters . And not just the movies , but also the machine that produces them . A machine that manufactures empathy as a panacea rather than as a means to an end . Rooted in his frustration with the film industry 's response to the war in Gaza , Wang rails against the hostile non-reaction to Jonathan Glazer 's acceptance speech at the Oscars , which crystallized the film world 's cowardly refusal to take sides in a humanitarian crisis that continues to be abetted by public opinion . <p> Wang excoriates the " hollow truisms " and " mealy-mouthed appeals for unity " that several institutions have published in response to the genocide , and takes particular issue with the Berlinale 's hypocritical decision to disavow the comments made by the directors of " No Other Land " upon receiving the festival 's documentary prize . I 'd add that " No Other Land , " number two on IndieWire 's list of the year 's best films and the recent winner of the New York Film Critics Circle 's award for Best Documentary , is still without U.S. distribution , which to my knowledge is unprecedented for a film that would otherwise be a lock for an Oscar nomination . I 'd also add that ranking " No Other Land " anywhere on the same list that includes the likes of " Challengers " and " The Substance " is an exercise in absurdity , but that I hoped its position would most effectively call attention to the film 's humanity without inviting readers to dismiss the film 's inclusion because of their politics . <p> Wang extends his critique to what happened on screen as well . The writer calls out Alex Garland 's " Civil War " for its adamant bothsidesism ( " I tried to imagine him making such a film about the actual American Civil War ; would he also say that the issue was polarization ? " ) , and Coralie Fargeat 's " The Substance " for promoting a " facile universalism " that sours its satirical critique of Hollywood ageism into the stuff of misogynistic hagsploitation . <p> I strongly disagree with his second example , as I maintain that Fargeat 's Ozempic fairytale is a fantastical portrait of self-loathing that pointedly engenders our disgust as a means to an end , but I share Wang 's broader frustration with the distorted role that reality -- political or otherwise -- has come to play in the movies of our time . You ca n't go five minutes during awards season without hearing someone yammer on about " the power of storytelling , " but people seem to get uncomfortable when storytellers actually flex that power in meaningful and decisive ways . It 's the inevitable question of cinema in the age of neoliberalism : Do we want movies to change the world , or do we just want them to let us indulge in the fantasy that movies can change the world ? <p> Unlike Wang , I do n't think it 's a problem if people are eager to laugh with films like " The Substance " and " Anora " ( the latter of which he accuses of being disconnected from its protagonist 's suffering ) , but I do think it 's a problem if people feel like singing along to " Wicked " in a crowded theater -- or rewarding it with Best Picture at the Oscars -- is some kind of blow against tyranny , for example . I swear to every god on Earth this is n't another rant about that movie ( I 've already held way too much space for it in this newsletter ) , I 'm only bringing it up because the hollowness of its anti-fascist message speaks to the value of the one movie I 'm truly upset was n't on IndieWire 's top 25 list -- the one movie that I feel is most sorely missing from all of the various awards conversations , and the one movie that I 'm most convinced will be reclaimed as a masterpiece at some point in the future . Probably by the French . <p> Want to read the rest ? Subscribe to In Review by David Ehrlich and you 'll be the first to read the latest insights from IndieWire 's chief critic David Ehrlich , along with the best of our film and TV reviews . 
@@118557201 <h> The Spanish transport minister admitted in May that the the Danish-flagged ship Marianne Danica was denied port entry for " carrying weapons to Israel . " <p> USS Abraham Lincoln ( CVN-72 ) , a Nimitz-class aircraft carrier in the United States Navy is shown at its home port of Naval Air Station North Island in San Diego , California , US , May 18 , 2023. ( photo credit : REUTERS/MIKE BLAKE ) <p> The United States Federal Maritime Commission is investigating three incidents in which Spain refused port entry to ships reportedly carrying arms to Israel , two of which were US-flagged , the commission and media reported on Thursday . <p> " The commission is concerned that this apparent policy of denying entry to certain vessels will create conditions unfavorable to shipping in the foreign trade , " it said Thursday in a notice published in the Federal Register . <p> Spain could be subjected to millions in fines if it has been found to have interfered with commerce . The maximum fine is $2.3 million per voyage . Spanish ships may also be barred from entering US ports in response . <p> The commission said it had been made aware on November 19 that ships , including those enrolled in the US-run Maritime Security Program , had been denied entry . The Washington Times named two of the ships as he Maersk Denver and Maersk Seletar . <p> A Maersk spokesman denied that the ships were carrying weapons for Israel in November , according to the Wall Street Journal . <h> Spanish officials admit to rejected Israel-bound ships <p> Two of the ships rejected in November were from the Danish shipping giant Maersk and a third was rejected in May . Tourists look from Casa Batllo at people holding Palestinian and Lebanon flags during a protest to express support for Palestinians in Gaza , a day ahead of the anniversary of the October 7th attack , amid the Israel-Hamas conflict , in Barcelona , Spain October 6 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/NACHO DOCE ) <p> While Spanish authorities have yet to comment on the US 's investigation , Spanish Transport Minister Oscar Puente admitted in May that the the Danish-flagged ship Marianne Danica was denied port entry for " carrying weapons to Israel , " according to the Associated Press . <p> " We are not going to contribute to any more arms reaching the Middle East , " he said . " The Middle East needs peace . That is why that this first denial of authorization will start a policy for any boat carrying arms to Israel that wants to dock at a Spanish port . " 
@@118557203 <h> A weakened Syrian regime under Assad , therefore , is in Israel 's interest . But here 's the rub : Israel would like to see Assad weakened , but not overmuch , and not toppled . <p> THE SYRIAN civil war flared anew on November 27 with an offensive by an alliance of hardcore Sunni jihadists . Here , Iranians protest earlier this week in front of the Turkish Embassy in Tehran against Turkey 's support of the rebel alliance battling the regime in Syria . ( photo credit : Atta Kenare/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> The sudden rekindling of the Syrian civil war has many Israelis looking to the northeast and asking the following question : " The enemy of my enemy is fighting my enemy , so whom am I for ? " <p> Or , in other words , who would Israel least like to see parked on its border with Syria : Iranian-backed Shia jihadist extremists or Turkish-backed Sunni jihadists ? <p> Since the answer is neither , Israel 's approach to the developments in Syria will be to stay out of the melee as long as its security interests are not directly or immediately threatened . As Yitzhak Shamir was once quoted as having said during the Iran-Iraq war of the 1980s -- when two of the Jewish state 's fiercest enemies were weakening each other -- Israel can " wish both sides success . " <p> The Syrian civil war flared anew on November 27 with an offensive by an alliance of hardcore Sunni jihadists , once allied with al-Qaeda ( called Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ) , and Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan-backed Islamists ( the Syrian National Army SNA ) against the northern Syrian city of Aleppo . This alliance has since taken most of Aleppo and moved on to its next target : Hama . <p> Few saw this coming , though it should not have been that much of a surprise . It was always clear that the Mideast war Hamas began on October 7 with its barbaric attack on Israel would have wider regional implications . What was not clear , but is now coming into focus , is what those implications and ramifications would be . RUSSIAN PRESIDENT Vladimir Putin meets with Syrian President Bashar Assad at the Kremlin in July . Russia 's influence in the Middle East extends well beyond diplomatic channels and into a consistent , visible military presence in Syria , say the writers . ( credit : SPUTNIK/REUTERS ) <p> The October 7 attack led to Hezbollah opening a front against Israel and driving 60,000 Israelis from their homes . This led , after 11 long months , to Operation Northern Arrows with the aim of bringing those residents back home . This operation resulted in exploding Hezbollah beepers , the decapitation of Hezbollah 's leadership , the severe degradation of Hezbollah 's capabilities , and the demonstration -- via an airstrike on Iran -- of the Islamic Republic 's vulnerability and penetrability . <p> And this sequence of events led to the decision by the Syrian rebels to try to retake Aleppo and reignite the civil war at a time when three of Syrian President Bashar Assad 's biggest allies are severely weakened or preoccupied : Moscow tied up in Ukraine , and Hezbollah and Iran at their weakest point in years due to the Israeli onslaught , which likely would not have happened were it not for October 7 . <p> With Assad 's three allies far from what they once were , the rebels saw an opportunity -- one that they had clearly been planning for -- and pounced . Not coincidentally , they struck on November 27 -- the same day the Hezbollah-Israeli ceasefire was announced . <p> Hamas 's attack is already reshaping the Mideast well beyond the borders of Gaza in ways few anticipated . It was clear after October 7 there would be strong aftershocks that would be widely felt . Just how strong and how widely felt is quickly becoming apparent . <p> The Syrian civil war , which began in 2011 , pitted a hard-to-keep-straight jumble of different actors with a myriad of different ideological interests one against the other . The renewed fighting is no different . Here 's a look at the prime interests of four key players in that drama : Israel , Turkey , Iran , and Russia . <h> Israel <p> Israel is an actor in this drama in that its actions in Lebanon and Syria significantly weakened two of Assad 's primary backers -- Hezbollah and Iran -- prompting the rebels to strike . But Israel is only an indirect actor , not actively involved in the fighting taking place in the north of Syria . <p> Nevertheless , Israel has definite interests in Syria , primarily to weaken the Iranian-Syrian-Hezbollah axis and prevent Iran from using Syria , as it has in the past , to rearm and build up Hezbollah . <p> A weakened Syrian regime under Assad , therefore , is in Israel 's interest . But here 's the rub : Israel would like to see Assad weakened , but not overmuch , and not toppled . <p> That 's the paradox . <p> Why weakened ? So that Syria will be unable for generations to pose a credible threat to Israel . The long-running civil war has taken Syria out of the circle of countries that can pose a conventional threat . Notice that in the current war , Assad has not opened up an additional front against the Jewish state , not wanting to give it any pretext to blast away at the Syrian army . <p> The IDF has struck some 70 targets in Syria over the past year , but those have primarily been Iranian and Hezbollah assets , not assets belonging to the Syrian army . <p> And why does Israel not want to see Assad overly weakened ? <p> Because Israel would like to see Damascus move away from Iran and toward the moderate Sunni countries like the United Arab Emirates . In recent months there has been positive movement in that direction , movement that will likely now come to a halt , as Assad will need more -- not less -- help from Iran . <p> If , in the past , the bargain offered to Assad was economic aid from the Gulf countries in exchange for moving out of Iran 's circle of influence , now Syria is in desperate need of boots on the ground -- which only Iran , or its proxies , can provide . <p> As to why Israel would not like to see Assad toppled , this is because that may lead to chaos , something rarely good for Israel . <p> Jerusalem , in general , likes predictability -- and Assad in Syria provides that . While Assad is no friend , Israel at least knows what to expect from him -- what he can and can not do , what he will and will not do . A new ruler in Damascus of the Sunni jihadist variety would be unpredictable . <p> If , under the guise of the reignited civil war , Israel sees Iran trying to transfer weapons to Hezbollah , it can be expected to act . But , short of that , it can be expected to let its enemies just slog it out -- all the while repeating the mantra : " Jerusalem is monitoring the situation . " <h> Turkey <p> For the rebels to launch the type of offensive that they did , they needed the go-ahead from Turkey , which Erdogan gave even though his backing of the rebels puts him at odds with Iran , Russia , and -- inasmuch as one of his interests is to squash the Kurds -- also the US . <p> Why risk this ? Because Erdogan is keen on resettling in northern Syria the estimated 3.5 million Syrian refugees who poured into his country since the start of the civil war , and because he wants to further undermine Kurdish efforts in the region . <p> Regarding resettlement of the refugees , Turkey and Syria have been in reconciliation talks for months ( Erdogan quickly backed the rebels when the civil war began ) . But these talks have gone nowhere , with Assad demanding that Turkey remove its troops from a security zone that Turkey , together with the SNA , have carved out in northern Syria . Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan addresses his supporters during a meeting in Ankara , Turkey , August 14 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/UMIT BEKTAS/FILE PHOTO ) <p> This rebel offensive now gives Erdogan added leverage against Assad to reach an agreement . <p> The Syrian refugee crisis has increasingly become a domestic issue in Turkey , where -- amid an economic crisis -- there has been a backlash against the refugees , something that hurt Erdogan 's party in local and parliamentary elections . He wants them to return precisely to the buffer zone in the north . <p> In addition , Erdogan is hoping that the fighting will help contain and potentially remove the threat he perceives from the Kurdish groups in northeastern Syria , which -- at least until President-elect Donald Trump comes into power on January 20 -- have US support . <p> The success of the rebels gives Erdogan increased leverage and strengthens his position in shaping Syria 's future . <h> Iran <p> Along with Assad , Iran is the biggest loser as the rebels gain ground . <p> Tehran has invested billions in Syria since the beginning of the civil war there , seeing the country as central to its efforts to encircle Israel with a " ring of fire " of proxies willing to do its bidding . <p> Iran 's interest is clear : to preserve Syria as a conduit of arms to Hezbollah and as a platform from which it can produce arms for the Lebanese terrorist group and rebuild its prime proxy . If Assad falls , that conduit is lost . <p> Like Hezbollah , however , Iran 's resources are not limitless , and -- because of the drubbing Hezbollah took in Lebanon -- the resources Iran can now allocate to save Assad are not the same as they were in the past . <p> Iran has militias comprised of Iraqis , Pakistanis , and Afghanis it may deploy , but these militias do not match Hezbollah in their battle readiness and training . Hezbollah , decimated by Israel , is in no position to send forces now to prop up Assad . <p> Syria is key to Iran 's regional influence , and if Assad falls , it loses that asset . <h> Russia <p> Russia intervened actively in 2015 in the Syrian civil war , and by so doing tipped the scales in Assad 's favor . Moscow 's intervention stemmed from several interests that are as important for the Kremlin today as they were then . <p> The first is that through Syria , Russia is able to project power throughout the Middle East and combat US influence in the region . <p> Assad gave Russia a much-coveted warmwater port on the Mediterranean in Tartus , as well as an air base near Latakia . Agreements with Assad will allow Russia to operate the port and air base for the next half century , if not longer . This has strategic significance for Moscow , which explains why , in the midst of its war with Ukraine , over the last week it has undertaken bombing runs against the rebels in northern Syria , trying to halt their advance . <p> In addition , Moscow has an interest in showing other allies that it will come to their aid and keep them from obliteration -- one reason the rapid defeat last week of Assad forces around Aleppo was such an embarrassment for the Kremlin . Assad 's poor showing undermines Russia 's position in the region and trashes the perception Russia wants to project that -- unlike the US -- it is a superpower on which its allies can rely to ensure they do not fall . 
@@118557207 <h> US Supreme Court to weigh bid to sue Palestinian authorities over attacks against Americans <h> The law is called the Promoting Security and Justice for Victims of Terrorism Act . <p> By REUTERS DECEMBER 7 , 2024 00:09 <p> The US Supreme Court in Washington , D.C. , is pictured on July 30 , 2024. ( photo credit : KEVIN DIETSCH/GETTY IMAGES ) <p> The US Supreme Court agreed on Friday to decide the legality of a 2019 federal statute meant to facilitate lawsuits against Palestinian authorities by Americans killed or injured in attacks in Israel and elsewhere . <p> The justices took up appeals by President Joe Biden 's administration and a group of American victims and their families of a lower court 's ruling that this law violated the rights of the Palestinian Authority and Palestine Liberation Organization to due process under the US Constitution . <p> The law is called the Promoting Security and Justice for Victims of Terrorism Act . <h> Ruling by the end of June <p> The Supreme Court is expected to hold arguments in the case and rule by the end of June . Its decision to hear the case comes during the Gaza war in which Israel launched an air and ground assault on the Hamas-ruled enclave after Palestinian terrorists stormed Israeli border communities in October 2023 . <p> US courts for years have grappled over whether they have jurisdiction in cases involving the Palestinian Authority and PLO for actions taken abroad . Under the language at issue in the 2019 law , the PLO and Palestinian Authority would automatically " consent " to jurisdiction if they conduct activities in the United States or make payments to people who attack Americans . US Supreme Court front ( credit : FLICKR ) <p> The plaintiffs in the litigation before the Supreme Court include families who in 2015 won a $655 million judgment in a civil case alleging that the Palestinian organizations were responsible for a series of shootings and bombings around Jerusalem from 2002 to 2004 . Officials and employees of the two organizations planned , directed and participated in these attacks , according to the plaintiffs . <p> The Manhattan-based 2nd US Circuit Court of Appeals threw out the award in 2016 , finding that American courts lacked jurisdiction over the Palestinian defendants . <p> Congress subsequently passed the Promoting Security and Justice for Victims of Terrorism Act , and new litigation was brought by the families as well as by relatives of Ari Fuld , a Jewish settler in the West Bank who was fatally stabbed by a Palestinian in 2018 . <p> A New York-based federal judge in 2022 ruled that the law was unconstitutional because of due process violations . Congress , US District Judge Jesse Furman wrote , " can not simply declare anything it wants to be consent . " <p> Plaintiffs asked the 2nd Circuit to revive their claims , but it refused , prompting the appeal to the Supreme Court . <p> " We 're encouraged by the court 's acceptance of the case for review , and our families are looking forward to restoration of the judgment in their favor and a long-overdue measure of justice for the horrific attacks against them , " said Kent Yalowitz , a lawyer representing families in the case . <p> A lawyer representing the two Palestinian organizations did not immediately respond to a request for comment . 
@@118557208 <h> Roman Mendez , 6 , and Elias Wolford , 5 , were in critical but stable condition following the attack on the Feather River School of Seventh-Day Adventists in Palermo by gunman Glenn Litton . <p> Roman Mendez , age 6 , and Elias Wolford , age 5 , who were shot in a California kindergarten , ( photo credit : Butte County Sherriff ) <p> Two kindergarten-age boys were shot at a Seventh-Day Adventist Christian school in California on Wednesday by a man with a lengthy criminal and mental health history claiming to be taking revenge of American involvement with a supposed Gaza " genocide " and attacks on Yemen , according to a Thursday Butte County Sherriff 's office briefing . <p> Roman Mendez , 6 , and Elias Wolford , 5 , were in critical but stable condition following the attack on the Feather River School of Seventh-Day Adventists in Palermo by gunman Glenn Litton . <p> The 56-year-old assailant , who was found at the school by first responders with a fatal self-inflicted gunshot wound , had left a statement justifying the shooting as revenge for the ongoing Israeli military operation against Hamas in Gaza and operations to counter Ansar Allah 's maritime terrorism and missile attacks . <p> " Countermeasures involving child execution has now been imposed at the Seventh Day Adventist school in California , United States by the International Alliance , " read the manifesto shared by Butte County Sherriff Kory Honea at the Thursday briefing . " I , Lieutenant Glenn Litton of the Alliance , carried out countermeasures in necessitated response to America 's involvement with genocide and oppression of Palestinians along with attacks towards Yemen . " <p> Honea noted that Litton had " significant " mental health issues and had likely cobbled together information from various different sources to create a different reality . The shooter , Glenn Litton , age 56 ( credit : Butte County Sherriff ) <p> Law enforcement was working to identify if there was indeed an organization by the name of " International Alliance " or if it was a fabrication of a Litton 's . Investigators have thus far found no indication that such an organization exists . <p> Honea said that the suspect had explored other Seventh Day Adventist schools as alternative targets . Litton had attended a Seventh Day Adventist school as a young man , and had targeted the religious group due to his " notions " about the Christian movement 's activities . <p> Litton , who according to Honea had a lengthy criminal record and mental health issues , arrived at the school on Wednesday after having booked an uber under the name Mark Hansen . Litton had reportedly scheduled an appointment with the school 's administrators under the alias Michael Sanders , an identity that he had previously used in a November license forgery and theft of a U-Haul truck . Under the guise of Sanders , Litton pretended to be interested in enrolling his fictitious grandson at the school . <p> After a tour of the facilities , Honea said that Litton headed toward the school 's parking lot , then turned toward the playground . The attacker pulled out a concealed ghost gun pistol and shot the two boys . <p> Honea said that the children would likely have to undergo multiple surgeries and a lengthy recovery process . <p> " The people that truly matter are the victims , " rather that the perpetrator , Honea remarked . <h> Community initiatives <p> Several community initiatives have been organized to aid the families . The North Valley Community foundation is holding an online fundraiser and a chili buffest fundraiser is set to be held on Monday at the Oroville Southside Community Center . A candelight prayer vigil was scheduled for Friday in front of the downtown Oroville Christmas tree . <p> Oroville Mayor David Pittman said that the entire community was thinking and praying for the wounded boys and all the students , staff , and families associated with the school . <p> " Sadly , our schools must plan and train for these kinds of events and pray they never occur , " Pittman said in a Thursday statement . " Our schools must be safe places . To the Feather River Adventist School staff , you and your students have suffered unimaginable trauma today . We , as a community , are here to support you through your healing . " <p> Litton was homeless and moved between locations and hotels in the Sacramento and Chico areas . His criminal history included robbery , forgery , and theft . In March Litton stole over 1000 dollars from the cash register of the CVS pharmacy at which he worked . 
@@118557211 <p> Aqilan was in charge of commanding the Nahal Oz massacre on October 7 , and has since been behind much of the terrorist activity against IDF troops in northern and central Gaza , the IDF added . <p> A SCENE of destruction at Kibbutz Nahal Oz , after the Hamas attack on October 7 . Due to a lack of critical thinking , the kibbutz underwent a slaughter that is almost too painful to comprehend , the writer asserts . ( credit : YONATAN SINDEL/FLASH90 ) <h> Additional strikes <p> Also eliminated were Mamdouh Mehna , a senior member of the tunneling unit in Hamas ' Gaza division who infiltrated Nahal Oz on October 7 , and Ahmad Suwaidan , a company commander in the Shati Battalion . <p> Suwaidan was involved in taking Israeli civilians hostage in the Gaza Strip on October 7 . Mehna directed the planning and construction of Hamas tunnels , as well as underground training for operatives . <h> The launch comes as the United States and European countries claim Iran is transferring ballistic missiles to Russia . <p> By REUTERS Iran 's two-stage Simorgh ( Phoenix ) satellite carrier is displayed in Tehran as people gather to mark the 45th anniversary of the Islamic revolution on February 11 , 2024. ( photo credit : AFP/via Getty Images ) <p> Iran sent into space on Friday its heaviest-ever payload using the Simorgh carrier rocket including an advanced module for transferring satellites to higher-altitude orbits , state television reported . <p> The Saman-1 transfer module , along with a CubeSat and a research payload " were successfully placed in an elliptical orbit with a high point of 410 km ( 255 miles ) and a low point of 300 km , " said the broadcast . <p> The launch comes as the United States and European countries claim Iran is transferring ballistic missiles to Russia that would be likely used in its war with Ukraine within weeks . Iran has denied this . <p> The Simorgh , a two-stage liquid-fueled satellite launch vehicle , is built by Iran 's defense ministry and Armed Forces Logistics , said Iranian media . <p> " During its eighth launch , it achieved a new milestone by successfully delivering the Saman-1 Orbital Transfer Block and two other research payloads with a combined weight of approximately 300 kg ( 660 pounds ) , setting a new national record for the heaviest payload launched into orbit , " they added . <h> Previous launches <p> In January , Iran said it had simultaneously launched three satellites for the first time using the Simorgh rocket . <p> One satellite weighing 32 kg ( 70 pounds ) and two nano-satellites of less than 10 kg each were sent to a minimum orbit of 450 km ( 280 miles ) , with the two smaller devices aimed at testing narrowband communication and geopositioning technology , Iranian media said at the time . <p> In September , Iran put into a 550-km ( 340-mile ) orbit the Chamran-1 research satellite with the Qaem-100 satellite carrier . <h> Hezbollah 's terror infrastructure <p> The IDF added that Hezbollah , with the support of the Syrian regime , takes advantage of civilian infrastructure to carry out terrorist activities and smuggle weapons with the purpose of harming Israeli civilians . <p> Shin Bet and Israel Police arrested two residents of the village of Masada who were employed by the Iranian Quds Force to carry out missions gathering intel on IDF activity in the area , it was reported on Friday . <h> Doing what is needed : ' Post ' reporter on battling Hamas face-to-face in Gaza <p> By MICHAEL STARR ' We were ready to do what was needed . ' The ' Post 's ' Mike Starr has served two rounds of duty in Gaza since the October 7 Hamas attacks. ( photo credit : Courtesy ) <p> War is death and destruction . These horrors demand that if war must be fought , it must be fought until victory , lest these horrors be revisited . This was the thought that held in my mind as we crossed the border from Gaza into Israel , finishing our second tour of duty in the October 7 war . <h> Rebels ousted pro-government forces from Hama , bringing the insurgents a major new victory after a lightning advance across northern Syria . <p> By WALLA ! , REUTERS , JERUSALEM POST STAFF A billboard bearing a picture of Syria 's President Bashar al-Assad and a national flag are torn by anti-government fighters in the northern city of Aleppo on November 30 , 2024 . Jihadists and their Turkish-backed allies breached Syria 's second city of Aleppo on November 29. ( photo credit : OMAR HAJ KADOUR/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> Israel warned Iran not to send forces or transfer weapons to the Syrian rebels , which could end up in Hezbollah 's possession , N12 reported on Thursday . 
@@118557213 <h> Al-Najar had been responsible for planning the aerial infiltrations into Israel on October 7 . <p> The IDF and the Shin Bet eliminated the head of Hamas 's air force in Gaza City , Nachal Al-Najar , on Tuesday , the military confirmed on Friday . <p> Al-Najar was head of both Hamas 's Aerial Unit in Gaza City and head of Hamas ' Aerial Defense Unit in Gaza . <p> Al-Najar had been responsible for planning the aerial infiltrations into Israel on October 7 . <p> Since Hamas started the war , Al-Najar organized several attacks against IDF soldiers operating in central Gaza . The interior of a bomb shelter at Kibbutz Mefalsim in which people were killed while they sought refuge during the October 7 attack by Hamas terrorists . ( credit : AMIR COHEN/REUTERS ) <p> Al-Najar also promoted the use of explosive drone attacks against IDF troops . 
@@118557216 <p> This rare internal dissent underscores that the report is less of a fact-based investigation than a politically motivated indictment . <p> Let 's be clear : Genocide is one of the most heinous crimes imaginable , requiring proof of intent to destroy a people . Amnesty 's report does n't even come close . Instead , it relies on numbers provided by the Hamas-controlled Gaza Health Ministry , which Amnesty Monitor criticized for failing to " distinguish between civilians and combatants . " <p> According to Amnesty , some 42,000 Palestinians have been killed in the conflict -- a number that strains credulity and is presented without transparency or critical verification . <h> Cherry-picking the facts <p> Amnesty cherry-picks incidents to fit its predetermined narrative . Out of thousands of airstrikes conducted in Gaza , the report examines just 15 , alleging civilian casualties with no military justification . It disregards Hamas 's deliberate use of civilian infrastructure -- homes , schools , and hospitals -- as shields for its operations . The IDF , in contrast , issued evacuation warnings and facilitated the transfer of " 1.1 million tons of aid into Gaza " while establishing humanitarian corridors . Transfer of humanitarian aid trucks into the Gaza strip through the " Kisufim " passage . ( credit : IDF SPOKESPERSON UNIT ) <p> Yet these efforts are conveniently ignored by Amnesty , as they undermine the NGO 's claim of " genocidal intent . " <p> The report also accuses Israel of creating " conditions of life calculated to bring about physical destruction " through its blockade of Gaza . Yet this claim collapses under scrutiny . While Gaza 's civilians have endured hardship , the blockade exists to prevent weapons smuggling . Israel 's measures , including the delivery of humanitarian aid and vaccinations for Gazans , stand in stark contrast to the narrative of calculated destruction . The report omitted these facts , raising questions about Amnesty 's objectivity . <p> The most damning rebuke came from Amnesty Israel itself . The Israeli branch , often critical of Israeli policies , distanced itself from the report . While Amnesty Israel believes that there is a high death toll of civilians in the Gaza Strip and that the Israeli response roused suspicions of possible widespread international law violations , crimes against humanity , and ethnic cleansing , it did not believe that the threshold of proof for the crime of genocide had been met . <p> " Based on our analysis , put together in consultation with external experts , " it said on Thursday , " many of us have doubts regarding the possibility of proving unequivocally ... the element of intent . " This rejection of the genocide accusation highlights the recklessness of the global organization 's claims . <h> Undermining credibility <p> Amnesty International 's misuse of the term " genocide " undermines its credibility and trivializes the suffering of actual genocide victims . From the Holocaust to the Rwandan and Yazidi genocides , the term carries a historical and moral weight that should never be wielded irresponsibly . <p> The timing of this report is equally telling . It comes as Israel continues to recover from the October 7 massacre perpetrated by Hamas : the largest slaughter of Jews since the Holocaust . Amnesty International , which condemned Israel 's actions so swiftly , has yet to produce a comprehensive report on Hamas 's atrocities , including its use of human shields and indiscriminate rocket fire targeting civilians . <p> NGO Monitor said before the report 's publication that the announcement used selective evidence to come to its conclusions . The group highlighted how casting the humanitarian effort of evacuation orders as genocidal contradicted demands that Israel take precautions to avoid civilian deaths in combat . <p> This report is not about justice or accountability -- it is about vilifying Israel . By turning a blind eye to Hamas 's crimes while condemning Israel for defending itself , Amnesty exposes its bias and forfeits its moral authority . The International Legal Forum pointed out that the report is " replete with malicious lies , gross distortions of truth , and fabrications of law . " <p> If Amnesty International wishes to salvage its reputation , it must retract this report and apologize for its reckless accusations . Human rights organizations must uphold fairness , impartiality , and truth -- not inflame tensions with baseless claims . The term " genocide " should never be used as a rhetorical cudgel , and Amnesty 's decision to do so is an insult to both the victims of real genocides and to the truth itself . <p> Israel 's critics should remember this : The Jewish state will always be held to a higher standard and will not shy away from scrutiny . But reckless accusations like these do nothing to protect civilians or promote peace . Instead , they encourage extremists and deepen divisions . 
@@118557218 <h> Israel feels like it 's falling apart - to move forward , accountability must be taken - opinion <h> For Israel to move forward , it must confront challenges head-on . Accountability is not optional - it is a prerequisite for progress . <p> PRIME MINISTER Benjamin Netanyahu steps outside his office in the Knesset last month . This coming week , Israelis will witness something unprecedented -- a sitting prime minister will take the stand in a corruption trial where he faces charges of bribery , fraud , and breach of trust . ( photo credit : CHAIM GOLDBEG/FLASH90 ) <p> On Tuesday , Israelis will witness something unprecedented -- a sitting prime minister will take the stand in a corruption trial where he faces charges of bribery , fraud , and breach of trust . <p> Yes , Israel has seen a former prime minister and a former president stand trial , be convicted , and serve jail time , but this is different . Benjamin Netanyahu is different . As the longest-serving head of government in the country 's history , Netanyahu 's trial coincides with the country 's hardest war . <p> For years , he has maneuvered politically and legally to delay this moment . Yet , despite his efforts , the inevitable has arrived . Starting Tuesday , he will testify for at least five hours a day over multiple sessions in the coming weeks . <h> A new low for Israel <p> This moment marks a new low for the nation . On one hand , it reaffirms the principle that all citizens are equal before the law . On the other , it is tragic that such an occasion is necessary to demonstrate that principle . <p> When Netanyahu was indicted five years ago , it was clear that Israel was headed into uncharted waters . Personal and national interests were destined to blur , leading to confusion over priorities and a leadership that would have a tough time distinguishing between what serves the public and what serves Netanyahu . Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu speaks at the plenum , during a discussion on the subject of hostages kidnapped during the deadly October 7 , 2023 attack , in Israel 's parliament , the Knesset , in Jerusalem , November 18 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/RONEN ZVULUN/FILE PHOTO ) <p> This confusion has only deepened in recent years , particularly under this government and this version of the Likud party . Too often , political expediency has trumped what is right for the nation . <p> A glaring example is the issue of the ultra-Orthodox draft . The IDF is grappling with a severe manpower shortage , with thousands of men receiving unjustified exemptions simply by declaring themselves haredi . Yet , Likud refuses to act . It prioritizes protecting its coalition over ensuring the future of the military and addressing a glaring inequality that affects national security . <p> Now , consider this thought experiment . Imagine someone recommending a country for you to visit . At first , it sounds intriguing , but then you learn the details : <p> The country has been at war on multiple fronts for the past 14 months ; 60,000 of its citizens remain evacuated from their homes near one border ; 100 of its people are held hostage by a terrorist group ; and tourists are almost nonexistent , and international airlines barely fly there . <p> The prime minister is embroiled in a corruption trial , while the government attempts to oust the attorney-general for refusing to bow to political demands ; the justice minister has blocked new Supreme Court appointments because he can not pick only those he favors ; senior police officers face criminal investigations , and a top adviser in the Prime Minister 's Office has been jailed for leaking classified information . <p> Finally , the parliament focuses on laws designed to solidify political power rather than improve the welfare of the people . <p> Would you book a ticket to visit such a country ? <p> This is Israel today . For 14 months , the nation has managed to focus on war -- on Gaza and threats from Lebanon -- but in doing so , it has neglected the domestic situation . The country has been distracted , but this distraction can no longer serve as an excuse . <p> In fact , the distraction itself may be deliberate . The prolonged war allows leaders to divert attention from domestic issues and avoid hard questions . It shields those in power from accountability , keeping the public preoccupied with external threats instead of turning their attention inward . <p> Consider this : Israel experienced its greatest disaster last year , yet no comprehensive investigative mechanism has been established . This is not a matter of political alignment -- whether you support or oppose Netanyahu is irrelevant . <p> The question is fundamental : What kind of country do we want to be ? Do we aspire to be a nation that learns from its mistakes , one where leaders acknowledge failures , adapt , and grow stronger as a result ? <p> Without a mechanism to ask these essential questions , Israel risks repeating the same errors . A nation unwilling to reflect can not evolve . It becomes trapped in a cycle of mistakes , each one eroding public trust and weakening the state from within . <p> This can not go on . <p> For Israel to move forward , it must confront these challenges head-on . Accountability is not optional -- it is a prerequisite for progress . If leaders can not recognize this , the public must demand it . The war may dominate the headlines now , but the battle for Israel 's soul is just as urgent . <p> The writer is a senior fellow at the Jewish People Policy Institute and a former editor-in-chief of The Jerusalem Post . 
@@118557219 <h> Before supporting one side or the other , Assad or the Islamists , it 's wise to consider the alternatives . Whether it 's the devil you know or the devil you do n't , it 's still the devil . <p> SYRIAN OPPOSITION fighters stand in front of University of Aleppo , after rebels opposed to Syria 's President Bashar Assad said they had reached the heart of Aleppo , last week. ( photo credit : REUTERS/Mahmoud Hasano ) <p> At the start of the Arab Spring , a senior IDF officer on the northern front gave an interview in which he said he missed the days when he could look out over the Syrian side of the Golan Heights through his binoculars and be reasonably sure that the view would n't have changed the next day . <p> That was a time when too many people looked through rose-colored glasses rather than binoculars . Even the name " the Arab Spring " carried a hint of optimism , a fresh start , and growth . So much for that . Instead of roses , the world got thorns and a ton of manure . <p> I was not shocked . My instinct is to look at the alternatives . In Egypt , for example , it was clear that only the Muslim Brotherhood was organized enough and had sufficient support to overthrow president Hosni Mubarak . <p> The Arab Spring started with the self-immolation of Tunisian street vendor Mohamed Bouazizi in December 2010 . He lit a fire that spread out of control across the Middle East and beyond . <p> Fanning the flames , or at least exploiting the smoke screen , was Iran . The Islamic Republic was happy to extend its influence anywhere it could by widening cracks in a regime or society until there was room for it to step in . Iran quietly and patiently extended its octopus tentacles of terrorism from Tehran to Bahrain , Iraq , Syria , Lebanon , Yemen , Sudan , and elsewhere . DISPLACED PEOPLE who fled from the Aleppo countryside ride on a vehicle with belongings , in Tabqa , Syria , this week . ( credit : REUTERS/Orhan Qereman ) <p> I have often thought of that officer and his binoculars . Toward the end of Barack Obama 's presidential term , his secretary of state John Kerry made a desperate bid to create an Oslo Accord-style agreement between Israel and the Palestinians . The " peacemaking " was accompanied by increasing Palestinian terrorism ( a pattern we had seen from Oslo on ) , and by the summer of 2014 it had blown into an intense and harrowing full conflict -- Operation Protective Edge . <p> What Kerry was missing while shuttling between Ramallah and Jerusalem was the rise of ISIS , which quickly took over vast areas of Iraq and Syria . <p> This week , the view through the binoculars changed yet again . A fragile ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah was drawn up last Wednesday . Theoretically , the agreement is between Israel and Lebanon , which somehow was not held accountable for the thousands of rockets and drones launched on Israel from its territory since October 8 , 2023 , but is now expected to implement the ceasefire terms . <p> Unsurprisingly , Hezbollah has since launched more rockets , testing its limits . Nor did the rocket launched on Sunday by Iranian-backed Houthis in Yemen come completely out of the blue , and it is likely that Hamas , Islamic Jihad , and other terrorist organizations will continue sporadic attacks . <h> World caught off guard by news that Aleppo has fallen <p> But while the world was again fixating on Israel , it was caught off guard by the news that Aleppo had fallen , and Syrian President Bashar Assad 's regime might be toppled . Assad had survived the Arab Spring and consequent civil war by the skin of his fang-like teeth , with more than a little help from his friends : Iran 's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei and Russia 's President Vladimir Putin . <p> Nonetheless , the world has changed . Many commentators note that Putin 's invasion of Ukraine in February 2022 did not result in the quick , easy victory he anticipated , and he is still bogged down there as 2024 draws to a close . Similarly , Iran has been orchestrating the war against Israel with its proxies , but Israel fought back and decimated the Hezbollah leadership and terrorist forces . <p> Hezbollah is now not as able to come to Assad 's aid . And , in response to Iran 's direct rocket attacks on Israel , Israel also knocked out many Iranian weapon production facilities , reducing its abilities to help the endangered Syrian tyrant . The binoculars should be monitoring the moves of Iranian-backed Iraqi militias . <p> Incidentally , after the stunning success of Israel 's pager and walkie-talkie attacks on Hezbollah , as well as the elimination of its top cadre in targeted attacks based on extraordinary feats of intelligence , when the action series Fauda and Tehran return to Israeli TV screens later this month , I 'm not sure what plot twists will be ruled out as completely implausible . <p> The current situation demonstrates that what we are seeing goes way beyond the Middle East . This is a global conflict with Iran , Russia , China ( and to a certain extent North Korea ) creating one expansionist axis . Follow the money , the advisers , and the flow of weapons . <p> THE " REBELS " who now control Aleppo and Idlib , and threaten other parts of Assad 's Syria , are not nice guys . They are dominated by the Islamist Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) movement , a mutation of Jabhat al-Nusra , which itself evolved from al-Qaeda . As Sunni extremists , they have the support of Recep Tayyip Erdogan 's Turkey -- absurdly a NATO member -- and as a result , the first victims have been the Kurdish population in Syria . <p> The Kurds , unlike the Palestinians , have their own language , culture , and history , and -- as long as they reject terrorism -- I would be happy to see them finally rewarded independence . But this Sunni community has never mustered anything like the support the Palestinians have managed . I suspect it 's because the Palestinians continue ancient blood libels against the Jews and the Jewish state and have made replacing Israel their rallying cry : " From the river to the sea . " <p> A cartoon by Uri Fink in Maariv on Tuesday underscores the hypocrisy . It shows a Western-looking protester carrying a Syrian flag and placards in English reading : " Queers for Syria " ; " Stop the Syria Genocide " ; and " Boycott the Assad Regime . " The speech bubble of the lone demonstrator asks : " Where is everyone ? " <p> It is the height of political cynicism to let the Kurds risk their lives to beat back ISIS but not back it when threatened by its successors . In October 2019 , I participated in a small solidarity rally in Jerusalem , where the message was a plea to the world to stop the massacre of Kurds and Christians following the decision by then-US president Donald Trump to pull forces out of northeastern Syria . This was perceived by Turkish President Erdogan as the go-ahead to carry out a campaign of ethnic cleansing . <p> The world is now holding its breath to see what will happen when Trump returns to the White House . His term as the 45th president of the United States concluded with the Abraham Accords between Israel and four Arab countries , but they are not guarantees of future successes . <p> Some of Trump 's achievements were based on his unpredictability . When Obama warned Assad that a chemical attack on his own citizens was a red line , Assad skipped across it and suffered no consequences . When President Joe Biden issued a resounding " Do n't " in the direction of Iran after October 7 , the Iranian regime heard an empty echo . <p> This week , Trump warned Hamas that if the hostages being held in Gaza are not released by his inauguration on January 20 , there would be " all hell to pay . " <p> When Trump says " No , " it might give pause for thought ; but if tested and found not willing to follow through , the results could be disastrous . <p> The events in Syria currently present more of a dilemma than a danger to Israel , but that does n't mean the threats will remain distant and theoretical . When HTS declared it is not interested in attacking Israel , its word should be treated with all the respect due to any jihadist organization . Remember the Taliban promising that its return to power in Afghanistan did not signify the end of women 's rights there ? And the thought of the Islamist fighters in Syria getting their hands on the stockpiles of chemical and conventional weapons presents nightmare scenarios , not just for Israel . <p> A member of the Alawite minority , Assad is teetering much like his statues in rebel-controlled areas . He could be toppled or resurrected . He was eulogized several times during the devastating civil war and survived . <p> As Seth Mandel wrote in Commentary , " ... the renewed rebellion can be Assad and Iran 's just deserts without being cause for bandwagoning . We do n't always have a dog in every fight . <p> " But it does demonstrate the Jenga tower created by Iran 's regional adventurism . The more power Tehran took from Gaza , parts of the West Bank , South Lebanon , and Syria , the more precarious the whole construct became ... <p> " All these states and statelets have been attempting to bring ruination to Israel 's sovereignty at the price of their own . " <p> Before supporting one side or the other , Assad or the Islamists , it 's wise to consider the alternatives . Whether it 's the devil you know or the devil you do n't , it 's still the devil . 
@@118566704 <p> China 's drive to buttress its military modernization through increased international arms sales has slowed , according to a new report from the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute , or SIPRI , with experts citing Chinese-made weapons systems ' lack of combat experience as one key obstacle . <p> The SIPRI report issued this week shows significant growth in total international arms sales driven by the wars in Ukraine and Gaza . Revenues earned by the world 's 100 largest defense companies grew by 4.2% to a total of $632 billion in 2023 . <p> But the growth for Chinese companies in 2023 was only 0.7% , the smallest since 2019 . <p> The United States was the world 's largest arms exporter last year with 41 American companies in the top 100 , earning $317 billion in arms revenue . Only nine of the top 100 enterprises were from China , with total arms revenue amounting to $103 billion , according to the survey . <p> The slowdown comes despite China 's efforts to find overseas markets for its weapons to support its geopolitical objectives . <p> Over the past year , Chinese defense contractors participated in a number of defense exhibitions overseas . More than 60 defense firms participated in the Eurosatory -- one of Europe 's biggest defense expos -- in France in July . Chinese defense companies also participated in events in Vietnam , Singapore , Qatar and together with Russia at an arms fair in Pakistan . <p> Analysts say Beijing still faces a range of obstacles as it seeks to grow its reputation as a major arms seller . They say Beijing 's close ties to Moscow and the fact that many of its systems -- while advanced -- have not been battle-tested , are some of the reasons China 's weapons sales appear to be lagging behind other countries . <p> Technology transfer <p> For many countries allied with the West , China 's perceived support for Russia and its war in Ukraine are a key deterrent to purchasing Chinese arms . <p> Fenix Chiang , a senior military reporter for Taiwan 's China Times newspaper , says that nations such as Poland , which see Russia as a primary threat , are unlikely to buy Chinese or Russian-aligned weaponry , opting instead for more reasonably priced South Korean alternatives . <p> " Poland would never choose military weapons from China or those aligned with Russia , as they would offer little security , " Chiang said . <p> Wendell Minnick , a former journalist for the Defense News website , said China 's lack of after-sales support and unwillingness to share critical technologies with buyers weakens its position in the global arms market . <p> " They will sell you a fighter jet , but they do n't provide very in-depth training opportunity for the country they sell them to , " Minnick told VOA 's Mandarin Service in a webcam video interview . " That 's a huge problem . " <p> Minnick said that by contrast , Washington supplies training for Taiwan 's F-16 pilots in the United States . <p> " They are getting face-to-face , boot on the ground experience with real U.S. fighter pilots and training . China does n't really provide much in the way of training , " Minnick said . <p> Lack of maintenance and spare parts support is another problem for China in promoting its weapons to the international market , he added . <p> " You just do n't deliver an advanced weapon system and then say thank you , so long , goodbye , good luck . You have to supply them with continued maintenance and upgrade and spare parts , " Minnick said . " You also have to provide manuals that are in the local languages , not in Chinese . " <p> " Nobody likes to buy an advanced weapon system that has not seen combat , " said Minnick , " So that 's a huge problem for China until their systems begin to actually be deployed to combat with a proven combat record . " <p> Erich Shih , a Taiwanese military expert , also believes that a lack of combat experience is a weakness of Chinese weapons . <p> " When it comes to the export of mainland China 's fighter jets , if there 's one thing they lack , it 's real combat experience , " Shih said . " In other words , from the perspective of buyers , the question is whether these weapons are truly reliable . " <p> The use of Western technology in Chinese weapons has become another obstacle for China in selling arms overseas . <p> Chang Ching , a senior researcher at the Taipei-based think tank Society for Strategic Studies , notes that there have long been rumors that China is interested in selling its J-10 fighter jet to Argentina , and that Argentina is interested as well . <p> " However , the ejection seats used in the jets are produced by Martin-Baker , and the U.K. does not approve the export of Martin-Baker 's zero-zero ejection seats to Argentina , " Chang said . " Unless China can replace them with domestically developed ejection seats , any equipment with components from other countries will face restrictions and limitations when sold abroad . " <p> Dual-use advantage <p> On the positive side for Chinese arms companies , Chinese military drones perform well in the global market due to fewer export restrictions compared to U.S. and European counterparts , according to a report from the Mercator Institute for China Studies , or MERICS , <p> Fenix Chiang says drones from Da-Jiang Innovations , a Chinese technology company , can be easily adapted for military use after being exported to Ukraine . <p> China has reportedly exported dual-use technologies to both sides of the conflict in Ukraine . <p> Highlighting one example , Chiang pointed to China 's sale to Russia last year of 10,000 " DesertCross 1000-3 " off-road vehicles that were made for civilian use but can be useful on the battlefield . <p> In another example , China retired its Type 056 missile frigate and transferred the vessel to the Chinese Coast Guard . <p> " Several of these vessels have been sold to other countries , " Chang said . 
@@118566709 <h> Follow Us <h> Israeli-Hamas peace talks resume in Egypt <p> Israeli military vehicles patrol in the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights near the border with Syria on Dec. 6 , 2024 . <p> Share <p> Israeli-Hamas peace talks resume in Egypt <p> share <p> Officials of Hamas and Israel say Gaza peace talks have resumed in Egypt after mediators from Qatar and the United States suspended them in frustration last month . <p> Hamas political official Bassem Naim told The Associated Press Thursday there has been a " reactivation " of efforts in recent days to end the fighting , release hostages from Gaza and free Palestinian prisoners in Israel . Another source told the AP that Qatari mediators had returned to Egypt . <p> The Washington Post reported Friday that negotiators had signaled " serious efforts " are underway to reach a ceasefire deal in Gaza . The Post report said Israeli Foreign Minister Gideon Saar told U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken during a meeting in Malta that Israel perceives an opportunity to advance a deal for the release of hostages in Gaza and is committed to pursuing it . <p> Following a meeting of Israel 's Cabinet late Thursday , Israel 's Channel 12 cited government officials saying that the Qataris and the Egyptians believe that because of a series of new conditions in the region , Hamas would be willing to " enter into accelerated discussions even if it is a partial deal and even if Israel does not declare an end to the war in advance . " <p> Reports said such a ceasefire deal would include the " humanitarian " release of women and children and wounded hostages . Israeli officials said , in exchange , Israel will release hundreds of Palestinian prisoners being held in Israel . The report said a senior Israeli delegation will leave for Cairo early next week , to discuss the new proposal . " <p> The Golan Heights <p> Meanwhile , the Israel Defense Forces , or IDF , said Friday , it was reinforcing aerial and ground forces in the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights in Syria and was prepared for all scenarios . <p> In a statement from its official account on the X social media platform , the IDF said it " follows the events and is prepared for any scenario in attack and defense , will not allow a threat near the border of Israel , and will work to thwart any threat to the citizens of the State of Israel . " <p> Reuters video showed troops and military vehicles stationed along the border Friday . <p> Strikes on Syria-Lebanon border <p> Israel 's military also said Friday it carried out strikes overnight targeting Hezbollah " weapon-smuggling routes " on the Syria-Lebanon border . Official media in Lebanon and Syria reported that the air raid put the Arida border crossing out of service , days after it reopened following being hit earlier in the conflict . <p> In a statement , the IDF said the Israeli air force " conducted strikes on weapon-smuggling routes and terror infrastructure sites located near the Syrian regime 's crossings at the Syrian-Lebanese border . " The statement included a map identifying one of the targets as the Arida crossing . <p> Hamas leader killed <p> The IDF also reported Friday it had " eliminated " the head of Hamas ' aerial unit in Gaza , Nidal Al-Najar . The report said he was taken out in a joint " and precise " operation with the Israeli Security Authority . <p> The IDF said Al-Najar was one of the masterminds of the aerial infiltration into Israel on October 7 , 2023 , and had helped lead attacks against Israel and the IDF operating in central Gaza throughout the war , employing explosive drones to target troops . <p> Hamas militants killed 1,200 people and captured about 250 hostages in their October 7 terror attack on Israel that sparked the current war . <p> Israel 's counteroffensive in Gaza has killed about 44,500 Palestinians , according to the territory 's Health Ministry , which does not distinguish between combatants and civilians in its count . <p> The United States , Britain and other Western countries designate Hamas and Hezbollah as terror groups . <p> Natasha Mozgovaya with VOA 's Eurasia Division contributed to this report . Some information was provided by The Associated Press and Reuters . <p> The Voice of America provides news and information in more than 40 languages to an estimated weekly audience of over 326 million people . Stories with the VOA News byline are the work of multiple VOA journalists and may contain information from wire service reports . 
@@118566716 <p> A majority of Americans want the United States to lead on the global stage with a strong military , and a supermajority want to increase national defense spending , according to the latest Reagan National Defense Survey . <p> Despite Americans electing a president who ran on an " America First " agenda that focused on domestic issues ranging from the U.S. economy to securing the southern U.S. border , 57% of those surveyed said they wanted to see the U.S. more engaged and taking the lead on international events this year , compared with 42% a year ago . <p> Nearly 80% of Americans surveyed supported increased government spending on the U.S. military , a slight increase from last year . Increasing military spending ranked high above some of the other U.S. foreign policy priorities , such as promoting freedom abroad ( 61% ) and providing foreign aid ( 43% ) . <p> " The Reagan National Defense Survey demonstrates yet again that Americans are not pacifists , and we are not isolationists . We want a federal government that serves American interests and protects our country , " Bradley Bowman , a member of the survey 's advisory board and the senior director of the Center on Military and Political Power for the Foundation for Defense of Democracies , told VOA Friday . <p> The Ronald Reagan Institute has surveyed U.S. public opinion on national security for the past six years , and the latest poll , released Thursday , included a bipartisan sample of about 2,500 Americans who were surveyed two days after the November presidential election . <p> Most respondents said they supported continued U.S. security support for Ukraine and allowing Ukraine to fire U.S. weapons inside Russia , with nearly 60% believing the Russia-Ukraine conflict will end with Ukraine negotiating for peace , even if that means giving up some of its sovereign territory . <p> Ukraine support differed widely among voters for the Democratic presidential candidate , Vice President Kamala Harris , and Republican candidate , President-elect Donald Trump , with 74% of Harris voters in support of sending aid compared with 42% of Trump voters . <p> A supermajority ( 80% ) sees Russia as an adversary . <p> On Israel , 54% of those surveyed supported continuing U.S. aid , but Americans were split 45% to 45% on whether Israel has a right to continue military action or Israel 's military action in Gaza has gone on long enough and needs to transition to a ceasefire . <p> About half of those surveyed think the United States would prevail in a conflict with China , with nearly the same number finding China to be the greatest threat to the United States . <p> If China invaded Taiwan , nearly three-quarters of those surveyed said the U.S. should officially recognize Taiwan as an independent nation , with two-thirds agreeing that the U.S. should respond with economic sanctions against China and more than half supporting sending more military equipment to Taiwan ( 56% ) and moving more military assets such as aircraft carriers into the region ( 58% ) . <p> Most Americans surveyed believe the U.S. military should be large enough to win two simultaneous wars . 
@@118583419 <h> Family of US journalist taken hostage in Syria sure he 's alive -- but is ' frustrated ' over talks with WH <p> The family of an American journalist held hostage in Syria for more than a decade said they are now confident he 's alive -- but are also growing frustrated over " finger-pointing " talks with White House officials . <p> Austin Tice , 43 , a freelance writer from Texas , and former Marine , disappeared in 2012 near Damascus while reporting on the civil war there -- and has n't been heard from since . <p> The Syrian government has denied that it is holding Tice in captivity . <p> " We 've seen it in Russia . We 've seen it in China , we 've seen in Venezuela , we see it in Gaza . ... And we 've yet to see it for us , " he said . <p> The Tices are also hoping that President-elect Donald Trump will take up the cause when he returns to the White House next month . Trump expressed interest in Austin Tice 's disappearance during his first term in the Oval Office . <p> Tice was last seen in a video blindfolded and being held by armed men in Syria in 2012 . AP <p> " When Donald Trump was elected , that was the first thing on my mind , was to remind him of how much he loved Austin and how much he wanted ( him ) home , " Debra Tice said , calling it an " obsession " of Trump 's . <p> The Biden administration did not immediately comment on the the family 's source . 
@@118583610 <h> Two kindergartners shot as retribution for alleged Gaza ' genocide ' <p> Two California kindergarten students are in critical condition after being shot at school on Wednesday by a man motivated by " America 's involvement " in what he characterized as " genocide and oppression of Palestinians . " <p> Glenn Litton , 56 , set out to commit " child executions " at Feather River School of Seventh-Day Adventists as a " countermeasure in necessitated response " to Israel 's military operations against Hamas and Houthi terrorists , according to a police report of his manifesto . <p> " Countermeasures involving child execution has now been imposed at the Seventh Day Adventist school in California , United States by the International Alliance , " Litton wrote . " I , Lieutenant Glenn Litton of the Alliance , carried out countermeasures in necessitated response to America 's involvement with genocide and oppression of Palestinians along with attacks towards Yemen . " <p> The anti-Israel shooter met with school staff under the alias " Michael Sanders " to pretend he wanted to enroll a child in the school . After receiving a tour , he walked toward the bathroom , which is when staff heard gunshots and screaming . He used the same alias to make an appointment at Red Bluff Seventh-Day Adventist School , a possible second target . <p> Roman Mendez , 6 , was shot twice and Elias Wolford , 5 was shot once in the attempted executions . Both remain in critical but stable condition . Litton shot himself dead before police arrived at the scene at Feather River School in Palermo . He used a " ghost gun " to commit the shootings , according to police . <p> " They have a long road ahead of them , " Butte County Sheriff Kory Honea said . " The fact that they are currently still with us is a miracle . " <p> Litton had a long history of crime and mental health issues , according to investigators . Police do not yet know whether the " International Alliance " group Litton referred to in his manifesto is real or fabricated . <p> Following the Oct. 7 , 2023 Hamas terrorist attack on Israeli civilians , violence and unrest broke out across the United States and the world . In wake of the attack , anti-Israel groups began shutting down roads , bridges , and events , as well as forcibly occupying school buildings and setting up encampments amid calls for a " global intifada . " <p> Jewish students have faced a massive uptick in violent attacks and threats against them as a result of allegations of " genocide " being carried out by Israel , but investigators are unsure why Seventh-Day Adventist schools were specifically targeted in this attack . <p> " This is what ' Globalize the Intifada ' looks like , " Casey Babb , Senior Fellow with the MacDonald Laurier Institute in Ottawa , said of the shooting . " Conspiratorial , antisemitic , hate-filled carnage . " <p> The claims that Litton used to justify his attempted murders , that Israel is committing genocide in Gaza and that America is complicit , stem from Hamas 's allegations that the Jewish nation targets population-dense areas to attack . However , critics of Hamas highlight that the terrorist group intentionally operates in population-dense areas , using civilians as " human shields " by building military sites beneath hospitals and schools and by preventing civilians from leaving war-torn areas despite Israel warning of attacks . <p> Despite this , Israel 's estimated civilian casualty ratio is historically low . The IDF and United States have estimated the civilian-to-combatant casualty ratio to be between 1.5:1 and 3:1 . According to the United Nations , the global average is 9:1. 
@@118586609 <p> In this photo released by Russian Foreign Ministry Press Service on Friday , Dec. 6 , 2024 , Russia 's Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov , speaks during an interview with former Fox News host Tucker Carlson , back to a camera , in Moscow , Russia . <p> Defectors line-up to register their details with Syrian insurgents in Aleppo , Syria , Thursday Dec. 5 , 2024 . As insurgents consolidate their hold of Aleppo , which they overran last week , they issued a call to government soldiers and security agencies to defect , granting them what they called " protection cards , " which offer them some sort of amnesty and assurances that they wo n't be hunted down . <p> Defectors line-up to register their details with Syrian insurgents in Aleppo , Syria , Thursday Dec. 5 , 2024 . As insurgents consolidate their hold of Aleppo , which they overran last week , they issued a call to government soldiers and security agencies to defect , granting them what they called " protection cards , " which offer them some sort of amnesty and assurances that they wo n't be hunted down . ( AP Photo/Omar Albam ) <p> Syrian opposition fighters have reached the suburbs of the capital , Damascus , and government forces abandoned the central city of Homs as the rebels ' surprising offensive picks up speed . President Bashar Assad 's whereabouts are unknown . <p> Homs is an important intersection between Damascus and Syria 's coastal provinces that are the Syrian leader 's base of support . In Damascus , residents described a city on edge , with security forces on the streets and many shops running out of staple foods . <p> The rapidly developing events have shaken the region . Lebanon said it was closing all its land border crossings with Syria except for one that links Beirut with Damascus . Jordan closed a border crossing with Syria , too . <p> Eight key countries gathered with the U.N . special envoy on Syria on the sidelines of the Doha Summit for two hours of discussions Saturday night , and more will follow . The U.N . envoy seeks urgent talks in Geneva to ensure an " orderly political transition . " <p> Here 's the Latest : <h> Syrian rebels say they have taken over key city of Homs <p> The Syrian insurgency announced Saturday that it has taken over Homs , following reports of government forces withdrawing from the strategic city . <p> This latest development in the rebels ' swift shock offensive in the war-torn country has left embattled Syrian President Bashar Assad effectively in control of the capital Damascus and two other cities where his key support base among the Alawite Muslim population are based . <p> Homs is an important intersection between Damascus and Syria 's coastal provinces that are the Syrian leader 's base of support . <h> Mother of hostage seen in video says ' enough with the games ' <p> The mother of an Israeli man held hostage in Gaza and seen in a newly released video by Hamas says " enough with the games " and calls for more pressure on the government of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . <p> Einav Zangauker told a demonstration in Tel Aviv on Saturday night that like her son Matan , " there are a few dozen who are currently alive . Do n't allow them to be brought back dead in bags . Take to the streets . " <p> Matan Zangauker , speaking under duress , appealed to the public to protest in front of Netanyahu 's home and " not let him sleep even for a minute . " Zangauker also referred to 420 days of being held by Hamas militants and said " isolation is killing us . " <p> Police used a water cannon on the demonstrators as thousands took to the streets for the weekly anti-government protests . <h> Iran-backed militias watch Syria events before a decision on support <p> Two officials with Iran-backed Iraqi militias in Syria say the militias are monitoring the situation and have not made a decision to enter in support of Iran 's ally , Syrian President Bashar Assad . <p> One of the officials said Iranian militias had withdrawn to Iraq from their positions in Syria . <p> " All the militias are waiting to see what Bashar Assad will do in Damascus . If he resists and does not allow Damascus to fall , it is possible that the Iraqi factions will intervene for the purpose of support , " he said . <p> The officials spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly about the matter . <p> -- Qassim Abdul-Zahra in Baghdad <h> Multi-country talks on Syria end , with more to come <p> Multi-country discussions on Syria have ended on the sidelines of the Doha Summit . Iraqi Foreign Minister Fuad Hussein says the countries will issue a statement , and there will be follow-up talks " taking into consideration the practical and real situation on the ground . " <p> He said the talks , which lasted over two hours Saturday evening , focused on how to stop the fighting . Eight key countries including Saudi Arabia , Russia , Egypt , Turkey and Iran gathered with the U.N . special envoy for Syria , Geir Pedersen . <p> When asked where Syrian President Bashar Assad is , Iraq 's foreign minister replied , " I do n't know . " He declined to speculate on whether Assad would be overthrown . Opposition fighters have reached the Damascus suburbs . <h> Lebanon 's Health Ministry says Israeli airstrikes kill 6 <p> BEIRUT -- Lebanon 's Health Ministry says two Israeli airstrikes in southern Lebanon on Saturday killed six people and wounded five others . <p> The ministry said an airstrike on the village of Beit Leif killed five people and wounded five , while a drone strike on the village of Deir Serian killed one person . <p> Israel 's military said it was looking into the report . <p> Despite a ceasefire that went into effect on Nov. 27 to end the 14-month fighting between Israel and Lebanon-based Hezbollah militants that had escalated into all-out war , violations of the truce have continued . <h> Northern Gaza hospital reports new Israeli bombardment <p> The director of Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza says the facility came under heavy Israeli bombardment again on Saturday and three medical staff were killed . <p> Dr. Hussam Abu Safia in a statement posted by Gaza 's Health Ministry said the hospital was hit by over 100 projectiles and bombs , and electricity was cut off . He said the surgery department and neonatal unit were hit , and he pleaded for " immediate coordination for repair operations . " <p> Kamal Adwan is one of the last remaining hospitals in northern Gaza . Israeli forces are pressing an offensive that has almost completely sealed off the area from humanitarian aid for two months . <p> Israel 's military said it was n't aware of any attack Saturday . <p> The hospital director on Friday said Israeli strikes had killed at least 29 people including four medical staff . <h> Israel 's military says it is n't intervening in Syria <p> Israeli Lt. Gen. Herzi Halevi says the military is monitoring the Syrian border to make sure that " local factions do not direct actions towards us , " adding that Israel is not intervening in the events in Syria . <p> Israel 's military has said it is reinforcing its deployment along the border with Syria . Halevi said if " confusion " arises and actions are directed toward Israel by " local factions " taking control of parts of Syria , Israel has a strong " offensive response . " <h> U.N . says it is relocating non-critical staff from Syria <p> The United Nations humanitarian coordinator in Syria says the U.N . is relocating non-critical staff outside the country . <p> Adam Abdelmoula in a statement Saturday called it a precautionary measure to protect U.N . teams . " Let me emphasize -- this is not an evacuation and our dedication to supporting the people of Syria remains unwavering , " Abdelmoula said . <p> The statement did not say how many U.N . staffers were leaving Syria as opposition fighters reached the suburbs of Syria 's capital , Damascus . The statement said the fighting in Syria has displaced over 370,000 people as the humanitarian situation deteriorates , " with many seeking refuge in the northeast and others trapped in frontline areas , unable to escape . " <h> Foreign ministers gather at Doha Summit to discuss Syria <p> Foreign ministers and senior diplomats from eight key countries including Saudi Arabia , Russia , Egypt , Turkey and Iran have gathered on the sidelines of the Doha Summit along with the U.N . special envoy for Syria , Geir Pedersen , to discuss the situation in Syria . <p> The talks continued late Saturday and no details were immediately available . Qatar , Jordan and Iraq also were part of the discussions as opposition fighters closed in on the Syrian capital , Damascus . <h> About 2,000 Syrian soldiers cross into Iraq , official says <p> Bassem al-Awadi said the soldiers ' equipment and weapons were registered and taken into custody by the Iraqi army . " We dealt with them according to the principle of good neighborliness and humanity , " he said Saturday . <p> Al-Awadi also said Iraqi officials are concerned about the security of the al-Hol camp and other facilities in northeast Syria where suspected Islamic State group members and their families are detained . The facilities are guarded by U.S.-backed Kurdish forces . <p> Al-Awadi said there is " high security coordination " between Iraqi officials and those forces to " prevent the prisoners from escaping . " <h> Syria 's army fortifies positions in Damascus suburbs <p> Syria 's army says it is fortifying its positions in the suburbs of Damascus and in the country 's south , as opposition fighters close in on the capital . <p> The army statement on Saturday also asserted that Syria is being subjected to a " terrorist " and propaganda campaign aiming to destabilize and spread chaos . <p> The statement also said the military is continuing with operations in areas including the central provinces of Hama and Homs , and that it has killed and wounded hundreds of opposition fighters . <h> 2 wounded in car-ramming attack in the West Bank <p> At least two people were wounded in a car-ramming attack in the West Bank on Saturday , according to the Israeli army and rescue services . <p> The army said the attack took place in the area of the Fawwar refugee camp , near the city of Hebron . It said a soldier was severely wounded , and security forces were looking for the attacker . Israel 's Magen David Adom rescue service said another man in his 40s suffered light injuries from shrapnel . <p> The West Bank has seen a surge in violence since Hamas ' Oct. 7 , 2023 attack out of Gaza sparked the war there . Israel has intensified its military raids in the West Bank , targeting what it says are militants planning attacks , and there has also been a rise in Palestinian attacks on Israelis . <h> Israel 's military assists U.N . forces against attack in Syria <p> The Israeli military says it is helping United Nations forces to head off an attack on a U.N . position in Syria close to the Israeli border . <p> The army said in a statement Saturday that an attack was carried out by " armed individuals " on a U.N . post near the Syrian town of Hader and it was " assisting U.N . forces in repelling the attack . " <p> On Friday , Israel 's military said it would reinforce its forces in the Golan Heights and near the border with Syria , where civil war has reignited between the government and opposition fighters . <h> Hamas releases a video of an Israeli hostage <p> Hamas has released a video showing Israeli hostage Matan Zangauker making an emotional plea for his release and describing the conditions he and other hostages face in Gaza after being seized in the Oct. 7 , 2023 attack on Israel . <p> His mother , Einav , has become a symbol of the fight to bring back the hostages and is an outspoken critic of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's government . <p> Matan Zangauker , speaking under duress , appealed to the public to protest in front of Netanyahu 's home and " not let him sleep even for a minute . " <p> Zangauker also referred to 420 days of being held by Hamas militants . " We want to return before we go crazy . Isolation is killing us , and the darkness here is frightening , " he said , describing having little food and medicine and " undrinkable " water . <h> Trump says on Syria that ' this is not our fight ' <p> President-elect Donald Trump has made his first extensive comments on dramatic advances by opposition fighters in Syria , saying the besieged President Bashar Assad did n't deserve U.S. support to stay in power . " THIS IS NOT OUR FIGHT , " Trump posted on the Truth Social platform on Saturday . <p> Syrian opposition activists and regional officials have been watching closely for any indication from both the Biden administration and the incoming Trump administration of how the U.S. would handle the sudden advances against Syria 's Russian- and Iranian-allied leader . <p> Trump condemned the overall U.S. handling of the 13-year civil war in Syria , but spoke favorably of the routing of Assad and Russian forces . <h> Turkey says attacks on civilians in Syria were the straw that broke the camel 's back <p> ISTANBUL -- Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said Saturday that there was " now a new reality in Syria " following the rapid advance of rebel forces . <p> Speaking in Gaziantep , a city less than 30 miles ( 48 kilometers ) from the Syrian border , Erdogan said that " increasing attacks on civilians " in Syria 's northwest Idlib province " triggered the latest events like the straw that broke the camel 's back . " <p> It was not possible for Turkey to ignore developments in a country with which it shares a lengthy border and it would not allow any threats to its national security , he added in a televised speech . <p> " Our wish is for our neighbor Syria to attain the peace and tranquility it has been longing for for 13 years , " he told a rally of supporters . " We want to see a Syria where different identities live side by side in peace . We hope to see such a Syria in the very near future . " <p> Ankara has supported anti-Assad rebel groups since the early months of the conflict and hosts 3 million refugees dislodged by the fighting . While Turkey lists HTS , the group leading the latest offensive , as a terrorist organization , the Turkey-backed Syrian National Army has worked alongside it . <h> Tension in Damascus as security forces patrol the streets <p> BEIRUT -- A resident of the Syrian capital of Damascus says the city is very tense as troops and members of security agencies are deployed on main streets and intersections . <p> The resident told The Associated Press that many shops are closed and those that are open have run out of main commodities such as sugar . He added that if food products are available , some shops are selling them for a price three times higher than usual . <p> " The situation is very strange . We are not used to that , " the resident said on condition of anonymity , fearing retributions . " People are worried whether there will be a battle ( in Damascus ) or not . " <p> -- Bassem Mroue in Beirut <h> Russian foreign minister refuses to make predictions about Syria <p> DOHA , Qatar -- Russia 's foreign minister says he has met his Turkish and Iranian counterparts in Doha and that all three countries were calling for an " immediate end to hostile activities " in Syria . <p> Russia and Iran are the chief supporters of Syria 's government , while Turkey backs opposition fighters trying to remove President Bashar Assad from power . <p> Speaking at the annual Doha Forum , Sergey Lavrov said Russia continues to help the Syrian army confront insurgents , military via airstrikes . Asked whether Assad 's rule is threatened by the fast-moving rebel offensive , he said , " We are not in the business of guessing what 's gong to happen . " <p> He blamed the United States and the West for the events in Syria and said , " We are very sorry for the Syrian people who became a subject of another geopolitical experiment . <p> " We are doing everything we can not to make terrorists prevail , even if they say they are not terrorists , " Lavrov said , referring to the de facto leader of the Syrian insurgents , Abu Mohammed al-Golani , who says he has cut links with al-Qaida . His group , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , is listed as a terrorist organization by the U.S. and United Nations . <p> He said Russia , Iran and Turkey want the full implementation of a U.N . resolution , which endorsed a road map to peace in Syria . Resolution 2254 was adopted unanimously in December 2015 . <p> The measure called for a Syrian-led political process , starting with the establishment of a transitional governing body , followed by the drafting of a new constitution and ending with U.N.-supervised elections . <p> Lavrov also downplayed reports that Moscow had withdrawn ships from Russia 's base in Syrian city of Tartus , saying that the vessels had left to take part in naval exercises in the Mediterranean . <p> DOHA , Qatar -- The U.S. envoy who brokered the ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah says the deal has created a new opportunity for Lebanon to reshape itself . <p> Amos Hochstein told the Doha Forum that the weakness of Hezbollah after nearly 14 months of fighting along , along with blows to its Syrian and Iranian allies , give the Lebanese military and government a chance to reassert itself . <p> " Now is the moment with this ceasefire to rebuild Lebanon again for a much more prosperous future and stronger state institutions , " Hochstein told The Associated Press on the sidelines of the conference . <p> He said Lebanon needs " to do its part " by rebuilding its economy , choosing a president after years of delays and strengthening its central government to attract investors . <p> " And the international community has a requirement and a responsibility to support Lebanon after this devastating conflict and after years of Hezbollah control , " he said . <p> Hochstein told the conference that the turning point in ceasefire efforts was Hezbollah dropping its pledge to keep fighting as long as the war in Gaza continues . He said the change in position was the result of the heavy losses inflicted on Hezbollah , and Lebanese public opinion in favor of delinking the two conflicts . <p> He said key tests for the ceasefire will be whether Israel carries out its promised phased withdrawal from southern Lebanon over the coming two months and whether the Lebanese army is able to move into those areas . <h> Syrian opposition fighters advance on Damascus <p> BEIRUT -- Insurgents and a war monitor say opposition fighters are taking over military posts evacuated by Syrian government forces in the country 's south , bringing them closer to the capital , Damascus . <p> An insurgent official known as Maj. Hassan Abdul-Ghani posted on the Telegram messaging app that opposition fighters are now in the town of Sanamein , about 20 kilometers ( 12 miles ) from the southern outskirts of Damascus , President Bashar Assad 's seat of power . <p> Rami Abdurrahman , who heads the Britain-based opposition Syrian Observatory for Human Rights , said insurgents have entered the town of Artouz , which is about 10 kilometers ( 6 miles ) southwest of Damascus . <p> Opposition fighters have captured wide parts of Syria , including several provincial capitals , since they began their offensive on Nov. 27 . <h> Lebanese government approves a plan to deploy more troops along the Israeli border <p> BEIRUT -- Lebanon 's government has approved a plan to deploy more troops along the border with Israel , part of the ceasefire deal that ended the Israel-Hezbollah war . <p> In a rare Cabinet meeting outside of Beirut , held Saturday at a military base in the southern port city of Tyre , the government also approved a draft law to reconstruct buildings destroyed during the Israel-Hezbollah war that broke out in October 2023 and ended with a U.S.-brokered ceasefire last week . <p> Information Minister Ziad Makary told reporters after the meeting that the committee whose job is to monitor the ceasefire that went into effect on Nov. 27 will hold its first meeting on Monday . The committee is made up of military officials from the U.S. , France , Israel and Lebanon as well as the U.N . peacekeeping force deployed along the border . <p> As part of the ceasefire deal , during the first 60 days Israeli troops will have to withdraw from Lebanon , while Hezbollah will have to pull its heavy weapons away from the border area to north of the Litani river . <p> The Lebanese army said this week it will begin recruiting more soldiers , apparently to deploy them along the border with Israel . <h> Syrian army withdraws from much of southern Syria <p> BEIRUT -- The Syrian army withdrew from much of southern Syria on Saturday , leaving more areas of the country , including two provincial capitals , under the control of opposition fighters , the military and an opposition war monitor said . <p> The redeployment away from the provinces of Daraa and Sweida came as Syria 's military sent large numbers of reinforcements to defend the key central city of Homs , Syria 's third largest , as insurgents approached its outskirts . <p> The rapid advances by insurgents are a stunning reversal of fortunes for Syria 's President Bashar Assad , who appears to be largely on his own , with erstwhile allies preoccupied with other conflicts . <p> His chief international backer , Russia , is busy with its war in Ukraine , and Lebanon 's powerful Hezbollah , which at one point sent thousands of fighters to shore up his forces , has been weakened by a yearlong conflict with Israel . Iran , meanwhile , has seen its proxies across the region degraded by Israeli regular airstrikes . <p> JERUSALEM -- Israeli security forces killed a Palestinian man after he attacked them at a border crossing in the Israeli-occupied West Bank on Saturday morning , police said . <p> The man shot firecrackers at security forces at the checkpoint and threatened them with a knife , the police statement said . The man wore a t-shirt emblazoned with a symbol of the Islamic State militant group , according to an Associated Press reporter <p> Israeli fire has killed at least 700 Palestinians in the West Bank since the Israel-Hamas war began last year , Palestinian health officials said . In that time , Palestinian militants have launched a number of attacks on soldiers at checkpoints and within Israel . <h> Qatari prime minister sees movement in Gaza ceasefire negotiations <p> DOHA , Qatar -- The prime minister of Qatar says he has seen new momentum in Gaza ceasefire efforts since the U.S. presidential election , with the incoming Trump administration seeking an end to the conflict before it takes office . <p> Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al Thani , a key mediator in the ceasefire efforts , declined to give specifics of the negotiations but told an international conference in Doha that the gaps between the sides are not large . <p> Qatar , which has served as a mediator throughout the 14-month war , suspended its efforts last month in frustration over the lack of progress . But Sheikh Mohammed said his government has re-engaged in recent days after determining a new willingness by both parties to reach a deal . <p> ' We have sensed after the election that the momentum is coming back , " he told the Doha Forum on Saturday . <p> He said has been in touch with both the outgoing Biden administration and the incoming Trump administration and found that while there are some differences in approach , both are committed to the same goal of ending the war . <p> ' We have seen a lot of encouragement from the incoming administration in order to achieve a deal , even before the president comes to the office , " Sheikh Mohammed said . <p> He declined to discuss details , saying he wanted to " protect the process , " but expressed hope for a deal " as soon as possible . " <p> ' If you look at the gaps and the disagreements , they are not something substantial that really affects the agreement , " he said . <h> Israeli strikes kill at least 29 at hard-hit Gaza hospital <p> CAIRO -- At least 29 people were killed , including four medical staff , when Israeli strikes pummeled the area around one of the last remaining hospitals in northern Gaza , Palestinian officials said . <p> The situation in and around the Kamal Adwan hospital is " catastrophic , " according to Dr. Hussam Abu Safia , the director of the hospital . The dead included five children and five women , according to the hospital casualty list , which was obtained by The Associated Press . Friday 's strikes also wounded 55 people including six children and the five women , according to the hospital . <p> Kamal Adwan Hospital in Beit Lahiya is one of the few hospitals still partially operating in the Gaza 's northernmost province , where Israeli forces are pressing an offensive that has almost completely sealed off the area from humanitarian aid for two months . <p> Israel 's military denied that its forces had struck the hospital or operated inside it . The army said that in the past few weeks , " coordinated efforts with international organizations have been underway in order to transfer patients , companions , and medical staff to other hospitals . " <p> An Indonesian medical team which had been assisting in Kamal Adwan for the past week was forced to evacuate on foot after the area was surrounded by Israeli soldiers , according to a statement from the team . The Israeli military did not immediately comment on the medical team 's expulsion . <p> Dr. Rik Peeperkorn , the World Health Organization representative in the Palestinian territories , said an Israeli tank approached the hospital at around 4 a.m . Friday . Although no official Israeli evacuation order was issued , " people started to climb the wall to escape , and this panic attracted IDF ( Israeli ) fire , " he said . He spoke by video from Gaza to journalists in Geneva . <p> Kamal Adwan Hospital has been struck multiple times over the past two months since Israel launched a fierce military operation in northern Gaza against Hamas militants . In October , Israeli forces raided the hospital , saying that militants were sheltering inside and arrested a number of people , including some staff . Hospital officials denied the claim . <h> Saudi Arabia calls for and end to Gaza war and attacks Israel 's actions <p> MANAMA , Bahrain -- Saudi Arabia 's foreign minister has reiterated the kingdom 's call for an end to the war in the Gaza Strip . <p> Prince Faisal bin Farhan described Israel as acting with " impunity and is getting away without punishment " in its war on Hamas there . The prince said that any permanent solution requires a two-state solution , with the Palestinians having east Jerusalem as their capital . <p> After the speech , Prince Turki al-Faisal , a prominent royal in the kingdom who led Saudi intelligence for more than two decades and served as ambassador to the U.S. and Britain , took the stage . He harshly criticized Israel 's conduct in the wars . <p> " Israel has become an apartheid , colonial and genocidal state , " Prince Turki said . " It is about time for the world to address that issue and take the necessary steps to bring those who are thus charged by the International Criminal Court to justice . " <p> Israeli officials could not be immediately reached for comment on Prince Turki 's remarks . The Saudis spoke at the International Institute for Security Studies ' Manama Dialogue in Bahrain . <p> Copyright 2024 The Associated Press . All rights reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten or redistributed without permission . <h> Watch this discussion.Stop watching this discussion . <h> ( 0 ) comments <h> Welcome to the discussion . <p> Keep it Clean . Please avoid obscene , vulgar , lewd , racist or sexually-oriented language.PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.Do n't Threaten . Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.Be Truthful . Do n't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.Be Nice . No racism , sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.Be Proactive . Use the ' Report ' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us . We 'd love to hear eyewitness accounts , the history behind an article . 
@@118592701 <h> Russian-Western escalation : Dangerous game , unpredictable results <p> Since the election of former US President Donald Trump , the world has experienced significant geopolitical shifts , with each party striving to establish new realities on the ground as leverage in ongoing conflicts . <p> Nowhere is this more evident than in Ukraine , where tensions between Russia and the West have turned the country into a stage for political and military posturing . The involved factions are taking provocative actions , reflecting their desire to alter the balance of power and create conditions favorable for future negotiations . <p> The Russian side perceives the period leading up to January 20 , when the new Trump administration officially assumes power , as a strategic window to secure military advantages that may underpin any forthcoming agreement . Russian President Vladimir Putin has not disguised this approach , openly affirming it during a phone call with the German chancellor -- the first such communication in over two years . <p> This posture was underscored by a fierce assault launched by Russian forces on eastern Ukraine , amid Western accusations of Moscow bolstering its positions with North Korean troops , particularly in the Kursk region , controlled by Ukrainian forces . The Kursk region holds strategic importance in this conflict ; Russian dominance there would weaken the Ukrainian position , depriving it of crucial negotiating leverage . <p> Western powers , acutely aware of the significance of this point , quickly moved to supply Ukraine with advanced weaponry . The US announced its support for targeting deep within Russia , further complicating the situation and heightening tensions . This Western escalation is part of broader efforts to curtail Russian influence in the region and prevent Moscow from achieving a long-term victory . Russian President Vladimir Putin inspects the NICA Nuclotron-based ion collider facility as he visits the Joint Institute for Nuclear Research in the Moscow region 's city of Dubna , Russia June 13 , 2024. ( credit : Sputnik/Alexander Kazakov/Pool via REUTERS ) <p> In response , Russia 's reaction was predictable yet perilous , as Moscow threatened to resort to nuclear weapons if faced with defeat . Additionally , Russia showcased its hypersonic missile , the Oreshnik , which poses a formidable challenge to Western defense systems . These military displays serve as stark warnings aimed at deterring further Western escalation . Europe , not remaining passive , with France and Britain adopting a similar stance to the US , authorized the use of home-produced weapons to target Russia 's interior , further aggravating the crisis and complicating the geopolitical landscape . <p> The American decision to permit strikes deep inside Russia was more than a tactical maneuver ; it carried explicit strategic implications . This decision was met with approval in European circles , as it could complicate the Trump administration 's potential attempts to negotiate a settlement with Russia , thwarting a Russian triumph that might prove costly for Europe . Consequently , this development has infused the situation with additional tension , escalating political and military complexities among the disputing parties . <p> The prospect of this conflict escalating into a full-scale confrontation increasingly alarms international observers , particularly given the substantial military capabilities of both sides . With each escalation , the profound mistrust between the parties becomes more apparent . <p> This conflict transcends a mere struggle for regional influence ; it is , at its core , a global standoff between two competing political ideologies . The ongoing escalation prompts grave concerns about the future of international peace and security , raising questions about the potential for a return to the negotiating table amid such a volatile atmosphere . Military maneuvers and incendiary rhetoric from both sides suggest a situation spiraling toward uncontrollable escalation . <p> The current climate underscores the pressing need for political rationality and restraint . The world can not afford to slip further into a large-scale conflict that could unleash unimaginable disasters upon humanity . If this aggressive trajectory persists , its consequences might reach beyond Ukraine and Russia to impact the entire global community . <p> Thus , there is an urgent need for vigorous diplomatic initiatives and for wise voices to de-escalate tensions and avert further violence . International actors must recognize their responsibilities and work earnestly to prevent this conflict from escalating into a global catastrophe , considering its potentially catastrophic effects on all . -- Rami Al-Khalifa Al-Ali <h> Sexual violence in Sudan 's civil war <p> Asharq Al-Awsat , London , November 24 <p> Tom Fletcher , the UN undersecretary-general for humanitarian affairs , recently addressed a group of women at a school event in Port Sudan , commemorating the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women on November 25 . " I feel ashamed that we could not protect you , and I feel ashamed for men like me for what they did , " Fletcher confessed . <p> His comments shed light on the ongoing war in Sudan and the systematic epidemic of sexual violence faced by women , which he unequivocally condemned while warning about the potential escalation of such attacks . <p> Fletcher was not the sole UN official to raise alarm over this disturbing phenomenon . Pramila Patten , special representative of the UN secretary-general on sexual violence in conflict , had already issued a poignant statement titled " A war waged on the bodies of women and girls . " In it , she chronicled testimonies from Sudanese refugee camps along the Chadian border , revealing harrowing accounts of rape , ethnic-targeted sexual violence , and the trafficking of women for sexual exploitation . Many victims recounted being subjected to rape as a tool for humiliation and subjugation , often in the presence of their family members . <p> The UN Human Rights Council 's Fact-Finding Mission on Sudan painted a grim picture of the sexual violence , describing it as " horrific . " Their report , published at the end of last month , highlighted how attacks affected women and girls of all ages , with even children not spared . The document also revealed evidence of women and girls being abducted for sexual slavery , a claim corroborated by numerous reports since the war began . In these narratives and reports , the Rapid Support Forces ( RSF ) emerged as the primary culprits of such egregious acts , as documented by international human rights organizations , Sudanese civil groups , and the UN itself . <p> Last October a UN report , grounded in thorough investigations , confirmed that the RSF was responsible for most of the sexual assaults . The horror stories from displaced individuals who fled RSF-occupied territories are chilling . Some recount women being gang-raped in front of their families , while others regretfully drowned attempting desperate escapes . Many families went to the lengths of equipping their daughters with knives for self-defense or , tragically , self-harm to prevent rape by armed men . There were also instances of girls resorting to suicide after being violated . <p> The repercussions of these crimes extend deep into psychological and societal realms , demanding immediate attention and a long-term commitment to victims ' recovery . It is imperative to allocate resources to support centers offering medical and psychological care and to enhance community awareness to eradicate social stigma . Such efforts are vital to prevent survivors from suffering in isolation and facing harsh treatment fueled by misplaced shame . Sudanese organizations play a crucial role here , persistently working under challenging conditions since the war 's outbreak to document cases and provide holistic support to victims . <p> The state bears significant responsibility and should draw insights from other nations that have combated similar crimes . Engaging both local and international expertise can aid in establishing judicial bodies with special powers , employing international laws that categorize sexual violence as a war crime and a crime against humanity , with parallels to genocide based on race , sex , or gender . <p> For instance , Rwanda addressed sexual violence cases under its genocide laws as part of its post-conflict measures . The fundamental principle of accountability necessitates integrating sexual violence issues and the pursuit of justice for perpetrators into comprehensive solutions , even post-conflict . These crimes are indefensible , and securing justice for victims demands resolute deterrence to send a clear message to all potential violators . <p> Equally important is the inclusion of women in peace-building and conflict resolution processes . Women and children frequently bear the brunt of wartime atrocities , and their involvement offers a distinctive and empathetic perspective on tackling the complex issue of sexual violence . -- Osman Mirghani <h> Arab action against regional chaos <p> Al-Masry Al-Youm , Egypt , November 24 <p> The Middle East is undergoing a dramatic transformation in terms of geography , politics , economics , society , and national security . These comprehensive strategic changes should urge Arab countries to engage and cooperate more effectively , both individually and regionally , as well as together as a cohesive Arab alliance . The current political apathy mirrors a scenario in which a cancerous growth is allowed to spread unchecked , infiltrating the Arab world without any countermeasures . <p> On an optimistic note , the demographic landscape of the Arab world , characterized by a significant youth population , offers a glimmer of hope for the future . A young populace presents the opportunity to build a forward-thinking national identity -- grounded in accountability and transparency -- essential for effective governance . <p> However , the picture is not wholly positive . Territorial disputes are prevalent across the region , particularly between Arab and non-Arab states vying for sovereignty or imposing their jurisdictions . Political tensions are mounting within and across these borders , while economic and resource challenges attract diverse actors from both inside and outside the region . <p> Moreover , the areas of energy , maritime access , and security face significant hurdles . Countless state and non-state entities are forcing their ideologies on others , reassessing policies and practices in pursuit of regional geopolitical ambitions through national security measures . The increasingly common resorting to force to resolve disputes is perhaps the most alarming trend , and this has been greeted with a tepid response regionally and internationally , suggesting a tacit acceptance as long as such practices remain confined to the region . <p> It 's time for decisive action . Despite the stark global divisions , UN Secretary-General Ant ? nio Guterres convened a " Summit for the Future " in New York this fall , aiming to reinvigorate multilateralism and collective responsibility in the 21st century . Within this framework , Arab countries must take decisive measures and make deterrent political decisions concerning their aggressive neighbors . They should adopt a proactive geopolitical vision for the Middle East 's future , establishing the necessary conditions to cultivate constructive and advantageous relations between Arab and non-Arab nations . <p> Some might contend that the region can not withstand further military conflict . Regardless of the veracity of this claim , it misses the point of the discussion . This is not a call for war ; rather , it is a call for potent political action with tangible repercussions . Turning a blind eye to injustice and violence will inevitably escalate conflict and war at our doorstep . Others may argue that the Arab world is too unstable to instigate regional transformation , adhering to the saying , " better the devil you know . " This perspective fails to acknowledge the ongoing regional changes , often occurring to their detriment . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's declaration that Israel was " changing the Middle East " was swiftly followed by Israeli encroachments across the Levant , in countries such as Lebanon and Syria , extending to Yemen . <p> Frankly , I am deeply troubled by these excesses and developments that redefine the Middle East , often at the cost of Arab national interests . Moreover , I foresee no immediate resolution to the prevailing escalation and humanitarian failures . We stand at a pivotal junction , and the forthcoming developments are likely to worsen . This is certainly not a moment for complacency or indifference . <p> Given the blatant violation of international law presented by current actions , Arab UN member states , in conjunction with former members of the Non-Aligned Movement and several Security Council members , must rapidly draft a resolution urging the cessation of Israel 's cross-border operations and enforce a cease-fire , regardless of any dissent from permanent council members . <p> The recommended measures consist of a few things . First , Arab countries should embrace a gradual approach to reform in order to meet the aspirations of their youth . Building solid foundations and robust national security capabilities will shield these nations and their young populations from recurring shocks and disillusionment , exacerbated by increasing injustice and inequality . <p> Second , Arab countries must recalibrate , diversify , and balance their regional and international relations to reduce reliance on any single power . They should then bolster their political and security strengths to forge more balanced and stable regional alliances with their neighbors , fostering mutual benefit . This should be the basis for enhancing Arab nations ' credibility and political leverage . Otherwise , their regional proposals will be disregarded by adversaries and ignored domestically . <p> Third , Arab countries need to proactively craft future-oriented visions for a more equitable and advantageous security framework for the region , preempting efforts by others to reshape and reallocate alliances for their own interests . The most effective path to this goal is to establish a regional framework document featuring two tracks , initially proposed by Arab nations and discussed internally , before being presented to non-Arab regional parties . <p> The first track of this document should reaffirm the UN Charter and emphasize the principles of good neighborly relations among states and principles particularly significant to the region , such as the inadmissibility of acquiring territory through force . The second track should create a regional consultative structure for national security that prioritizes conflict resolution via diplomacy , crisis management , regional threat reduction , and disarmament . Participants respecting and adhering to these proposed principles will be invited to join the more consultative second track . <p> The events currently unfolding in the Middle East and beyond are challenging . Many question whether now is the appropriate time for a forward-thinking regional initiative . I ponder this frequently , always concluding that the staggering costs of inaction -- especially for the vulnerable or passive -- demand action and positive steps , before it is too late . -- Nabil Fahmy <h> Gaza deal following Lebanon agreement ? <p> Al-Ittihad , UAE , November 30 <p> The lingering question following the Hezbollah-Israel agreement is whether it will extend its influence to the Gaza Strip . This raises considerations about the political dynamics between Israel and both the Lebanese and Gaza fronts . Prime Minister Netanyahu has used this agreement as a strategy to alleviate domestic pressure and revitalize the Israeli armed forces . However , he faces significant challenges from right-wing opposition , which perceives the agreement as a perilous concession . <p> Netanyahu acknowledges that the ongoing conflict strains the military resources and sends a clear message to the domestic audience that the Israeli army has fulfilled its objectives . The primary aim was to push Hezbollah away from the area south of the Litani River and to cripple its capabilities by dismantling the infrastructure in the southern villages . This would neutralize any threats like those faced on Oct. 7 . <p> Through the agreement , Israel has not only achieved this but has also secured a strategic advantage by targeting senior Hezbollah leaders , making the decision to agree preferable to a protracted war , which would expose the home front to ongoing assaults . Hezbollah , on the other side , sees any ceasefire agreement as a way to cement its political and operational gains , ensuring its continued role as a military resistance force in the region . <p> Israel sought an agreement allowing it leeway to respond to future threats , aware that past agreements between these parties have been tenuous . For instance , UN Resolution 1701 , which ended the 2006 war , failed to prevent subsequent flare-ups . Without robust international assurances , any new accord could quickly unravel . The recurring confrontations underscore the erosion of mutual deterrence ; Israel has not been able to dismantle Hezbollah , and Hezbollah has not achieved significant strategic success . <p> Israel 's goal is to fortify its security by adhering to Security Council resolutions . Netanyahu aimed to capitalize on military achievements secured during the conflict , knowing that prolonged warfare could diminish Israel 's political and military standing . The continuation of hostilities might even provoke Hezbollah to expand its targets deeper into Israeli territory , perpetuating displacement among settlers . Nevertheless , the durability of the ceasefire between Israel and Lebanon hinges on fulfilling critical conditions , especially the disbanding of armed groups as outlined in the agreement -- with Hezbollah at the forefront -- and establishing comprehensive Lebanese state control . <p> This remains challenging , given Lebanon 's limited military capacity to monitor borders and prevent arms flow from Syria . The primary hurdle is not the agreement 's sustainability but Hezbollah 's potential rearmament , despite its commitment . While Hezbollah may temporarily refrain from deploying arms south of the Litani River , it can augment its arsenal north of the river , launching strikes from any location in Lebanon . This is exacerbated by the lack of oversight on the Lebanese-Syrian border . Internally , Hezbollah grapples with numerous challenges , notably from voices within Lebanon blaming the organization for the devastation and damaged infrastructure due to the war . <p> Amid this backdrop , increased American pressure has been a significant factor , with Parliament Speaker Nabih Berri negotiating with the US on Hezbollah 's behalf . Hezbollah faces mounting pressure to accept the ceasefire initiative , motivated by Lebanon 's losses , which reportedly exceed $5 billion , all while grappling with a preexisting severe economic crisis . <p> Concerning the Gaza Strip , any ongoing or forthcoming endeavors regarding a ceasefire after the Hezbollah-Israel agreement necessitate restructuring approaches concerning prisoner and detainee exchanges . The objective is to reach a consensus among all stakeholders on broad strategies that align with US President-elect Trump 's vision for ending hostilities in the Strip . This requires mediators to engage directly with the Israeli government , especially as Hamas is ready to negotiate a ceasefire and exchange of prisoners . <p> The prevailing conditions are ripe to pressure Netanyahu into accepting such deals , mirroring public opinion in Israel , which favors a similar resolution to the one achieved with Hezbollah . Public opinion surveys depict a divide between supporters and opponents of continuing the conflict in Gaza . Meanwhile , the Israeli government is engaging with President-elect Trump 's administration , in line with his call for a ceasefire on the Lebanon-Gaza fronts and minimizing regional conflicts . -- Tarek Fahmy <p> Translated by Asaf Zilberfarb . All assertions , opinions , facts , and information presented in these articles are the sole responsibility of their respective authors and are not necessarily those of The Media Line , which assumes no responsibility for their content . 
@@118592710 <p> Hamas 's October 7 attacks may have been a lifeline for Benjamin Netanyahu , former US President Bill Clinton said at a New York Times DealBook summit on Friday , later suggesting that many pro-Palestinian young people formulate their opinions based on limited information on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . <p> The former president discussed the role of wokeness in the Democrats ' loss in the recent presidential election , trade tariffs with China , and the importance of moral character in a country 's leadership . <p> Clinton also defended the possibility of a future Jewish president of the United States during the interview . <p> Asked by Jewish interviewer Andrew Ross Sorkin if someone Jewish could ever become the president of the United States , Clinton responded , " Absolutely . " <p> President-elect Trump had previously claimed that Gov . Josh Shapiro was not chosen as Kamala Harris 's running mate because of his Judaism . PENNSYLVANIA GOV . Josh Shapiro appears at a presidential campaign rally for Vice President Kamala Harris in Allentown , Pennsylvania . ( credit : ELOISA LOPEZ/REUTERS ) <p> Shapiro is a " great talent and he 's tough ... without being oafish , " Clinton said . " I do believe he and there are several other Jewish Democrats ... who I think would be very good candidates . " <p> " Do you have any hope for what will happen in the Middle East at this point ? " Sorkin asked Clinton , noting the ceasefire agreement between Israel and Hezbollah . " How long do you think Benjamin Netanyahu will remain in his role ? " <h> The Middle East <p> Clinton answered that Netanyahu had survived in his role longer than he would have predicted . <p> " Once the Oct.7 attacks occurred in Gaza ... from Hamas , it was a lifeline to Bibi , " Clinton said . " In the beginning , it hurt him because clearly , the IDF was not ready ... all the fights were going on within Israel about the rule of law ... made them more vulnerable .... <p> " Netanyahu was in office , and he had a narrow parliamentary majority and an otherwise very fragile political coalition got stronger because of what happened on October 6 ( 7 ) ... " <p> " Look , I think what has happened there in the last 25 years is one of the great tragedies of the 21st century , " Clinton continued . <p> The former president added that many young people had told him that " they say they are super sympathetic with the Palestinians and that and that all they know is there are a lot more Palestinians that have been killed than the Israelis . <p> " I tell them what Arafat walked away from , and they ca n't believe it . I said ' oh yeah , he walked away from a Palestinian state with a capital in east Jerusalem , 96% of the West Bank , 4% of Israel ... ' and I go through all the stuff that was in the deal and its not in their radars . " <p> " You walk away from these once-in-a-lifetime peace opportunities , and you ca n't complain 25 years later when the doors were n't all still open and all the possibilities were n't still there , " Clinton remarked . " You ca n't do it . " 
@@118615801 <p> The Assad family 's decadeslong reign in Syria came to an abrupt end Sunday when rebel forces captured Damascus after a stunning lightning-strike rout across the country . <p> Hassan Abdul-Ghani , senior commander of the militant group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , claimed victory for the rebel forces that stormed across Syria in a matter of days and entered Damascus overnight . <p> " We declare the city of Damascus free from the tyrant Bashar al-Assad , " he said in a post on WhatsApp . " To the displaced people around the world , Free Syria awaits you . " <p> Videos circulating on social media and verified by NBC News appeared to show Syrians celebrating across Damascus overnight and into the day , as crowds honked horns , waved flags and fired their guns into the air , while others posed for selfies standing on top of a tank . <p> Photos and video showed people toppling statues of Hafez al-Assad , father of ousted President Bashar Al-Assad , in cities across Syria , including in the Assad stronghold of Latakia . <p> Assad fled the country and relinquished the presidency . That was confirmed by patron Russia , which supported the regime in crushing what started as a peaceful protest movement and became a vicious civil war . <p> Syrian President Bashar al-Assad in Damascus in 2019 . SANA via AP file <p> " As a result of negotiations between Bashar Assad and a number of participants in the armed conflict on the territory of the Syrian Arab Republic , he decided to leave the presidential post and left the country , giving instructions to transfer power peacefully , " according to a Russian Foreign Affairs Ministry statement . <p> Russian state media reported Sunday that Assad fled to Moscow . <p> Syria 's prime minister , Ghazi al-Jalali , remained in his home , he said in an earlier statement , and does not intend to leave " except in a peaceful manner that ensures the continued functioning of public institutions and state facilities , promoting security and reassurance for our fellow citizens . " <p> He said the government is ready to cooperate with " any leadership chosen by the Syrian people . " <p> HTS General Command said it also freed the people being held in Sednaya Prison . The Syrian government has detained thousands at the military prison on the outskirts of Damascus , according to Reuters . <p> " We announce to the Syrian people the news of the liberation of our captives and the breaking of their chains , proclaiming the end of the era of oppression in Sednaya Prison . " <p> Syrian state radio , Sham FM , reported that Damascus International Airport had been evacuated , all employees removed and all flights suspended . It was not clear Sunday who was in charge of the state outlet . <p> An opposition fighter steps on a broken bust of the late Syrian President Hafez al-Assad in Damascus on Sunday.Hussein Malla / AP <h> International reaction <p> President Joe Biden on Sunday lauded the fall of the Assad regime . <p> " At long last , the Assad regime has fallen , " Biden said near the beginning of his speech . <p> He added , " It 's a moment of historic opportunity for the long-suffering people of Syria to build a better future for their proud country , " but he warned : " It 's also a moment of risk and uncertainty as we all turn to the question of what comes next . " <p> Biden outlined continued U.S. involvement in Syria , saying , " We will engage with all Syrian groups , including within the process led by the United Nations , to establish a transition away from the Assad regime , toward independent , sovereign and independent ... Syria with a new constitution , new government that serves all Syrians . " <p> In a post on his Truth Social platform Saturday morning , President-elect Donald Trump said in all capital letters that the United States should " have nothing to do with " the situation in Syria . " This is not our fight . Let it play out . " <p> The Israel Defense Forces said in a post on X it has deployed to the buffer zone between Israel and Syria , as well as other places , " to ensure the safety of the Golan Heights and the citizens of Israel . " <p> " We emphasize that the IDF is not interfering with the internal events in Syria , " it said . <h> Militant group offensive <p> Damascus fell not long after rebels on Friday besieged the Syrian city of Homs with a rapid assault on government forces that left three of the country 's five largest cities in their hands and nothing to stop them from marching on the Syrian capital . HTS rebels claimed Saturday that they had captured the city , a day after also claiming to have seized the city of Daraa . <p> The U.S. , which has about 900 American troops in northern Syria , has been closely monitoring developments in the country . <p> In less than two weeks , the HTS rebels were also able to capture thecity of Aleppo in the north , as well as the central city of Hama , where government forces were forced out Thursday . <p> Syrian opposition fighters celebrate in Damascus.Omar Sanadiki / AP <p> The HTS attack on Aleppo was the first opposition assault on the city since 2016 , when a brutal air campaign by Russian warplanes helped Assad retakecontrol of the city . <p> The sudden takeover of the capital by HTS militants was seen as a blow to the outside forces that have enabled Assad to cling to power for 24 years -- Russia , Iran and Iranian-backed Hezbollah . <p> The rapid advance by HTS comes as the Middle East is awash in fresh fighting , with U.S.-backed Israel trying to root out Hamas in Gaza and maintain a fragile ceasefire with Hezbollah in Lebanon . Both Hamas and Hezbollah are Iranian-allied groups . <p> Meanwhile , pro-Assad soldiers were battling Kurdish forces that seized government positions in eastern Syria near the cities of Raqqa and Deir Ez-Zor , the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said Friday . <h> HTS origins <p> HTS grew out of the former Al Qaeda affiliate Jabhat al-Nusra and is designated as a terrorist organization by the United States and the United Nations . <p> It 's one of several competing forces in Syria fighting to bring down the Assad regime that , since the beginning of the country 's civil war almost 14 years ago , has killed hundreds of thousands of Syrians . <p> A 2020 ceasefire left Assad in control of 70% of Syria , but some 6.8 million Syrians have fled the country . <p> Many have gone to Europe , where the sudden influx of Syrian refugees has fueled a resurgence of anti-immigrant far-right movements from Portugal to Poland . <p> The recent battlefield successes of HTS are the culmination of four years of trying to turn the rebel forces into a force capable of challenging Assad 's army and equipping them with drones and other high-tech weapons of war , experts have said . <p> " The expansion of units ... along with large-scale indigenous rocket and missile production -- has created a force that Assad 's regime has seriously struggled to defend against , let alone outmaneuver , " Charles Lister , director of the Syria program at the Middle East Institute , a Washington-based think tank , said on X. 
@@118615916 <h> Khamenei Loses Everything <p> When Hamas 's Yahya Sinwar launched Operation Al-Aqsa Flood against Israel on October 7 , 2023 , he intended to deal a decisive blow against a powerful nation-state -- and he succeeded . But the state his attack has devastated turned out not to be Israel , but Iran , his key sponsor . <p> It is a persistent folly of progressive thought to believe that wars do not achieve meaningful political consequences . The past 15 months in the Middle East suggest otherwise . After suffering terribly on October 7 , Israel has pulverized Hamas , ending the threat it posed as an organized military force . The challenge it now faces in Gaza is a humanitarian and administrative crisis , not a security one . Israel has likewise shattered Hezbollah in Lebanon , forcing it to accept a cease-fire after losing not only thousands of foot soldiers but much of its middle management and senior leadership . Meanwhile , Vladimir Putin 's brutal but botched war of conquest in Ukraine has undermined his other strategic goals . In Syria , Russia 's one solid foothold in the Middle East , the war in Ukraine has leached away Russian forces , depriving it of the ability to influence events . <p> All of this set the stage for the dramatic events of the past two weeks , as Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , a Sunni fundamentalist militia , spearheaded the seizure of Aleppo , Hama , Homs , and Damascus and brought about the overthrow and collapse of Bashar al-Assad 's regime in Syria . Neither Tehran nor Moscow could do anything about it . <p> The biggest loser in all of this -- after Assad , his family , his cronies , and possibly his Alawite sect -- is Iran . Decades of patient work assembling proxy movements throughout the Middle East , specifically but not exclusively focused on Israel , have collapsed . Hamas was never a cat 's paw of Tehran , but it received weapons and training from Iran , and coordinated with Hezbollah , a far more formidable force , and one much more tightly aligned with , if not always entirely controlled by , Iran . Hezbollah had helped turn the tide of battle that had flowed against the Assad regime from 2012 onwards . It kept a force of 5,000 to 10,000 men in Syria at the height of its commitment , but they were not alone . Iran organized and trained thousands more in dozens of militias , including a Syrian Hezbollah , and various Shiite groups from Iraq , Afghanistan , and Pakistan . All of them are now on the run . <p> Iran is a strong state , in the sense that its people are deeply rooted in a shared history and culture , but it has a relatively weak military . It has invested heavily in proxy warfare with notable success , including against the United States in Iraq . But with the defeats of Hamas and Hezbollah , and with the collapse of the Assad regime , Iran has suffered irrecoverable losses . It no longer has a land route to Lebanon ; it has lost its most disciplined , well-armed , and effective proxies ; and it failed in its two attempts to attack Israel directly while losing its main air defenses in a retaliatory strike . <p> Russia , too , has suffered a major loss . The Russian installations at the port of Tartus and at Hmeimim air base were built over decades ; it is hard to imagine that Russia will continue to operate from them . It has attempted to secure naval access to the port of Tobruk , in Libya , but has yet to develop the infrastructure there that it once had in Syria . Russia , like Iran , has been humiliated by its client 's collapse , and it , too , now faces an enduring hostility from a Syrian population that it helped suppress , with a savagery that foreshadowed its behavior in Ukraine . <p> If there is a winner here it is Turkey , which has supported , although not entirely controlled , HTS -- its own proxy force , the Syrian National Army , has spent more time attacking Kurdish militias in Syria 's east than fighting Assad . Still , Syria 's various groups , including the victorious HTS , know that Turkey will be the dominant external power . The victory of HTS not only presents Turkey with an opportunity to return 3 million Syrian refugees from Turkish camps but also extends Turkish influence along neo-Ottoman lines . It will be interesting to see whether Turkey takes the momentum of this victory to attack Kurdish forces in Syria and Iraq or to secure a stronger hold on Libya , where it backs the official government . In Libya , too , Turkey has pitted itself against an overextended Russia , which supports the rebellious warlord Khalifa Haftar . <p> Israel , although wary both of fundamentalists on its border and of Recep Tayyip Erdogan 's Turkey , can nonetheless be pleased at the isolation of Hezbollah and Russia 's eviction from the Levant . It has some reason to think that the rival Syrian factions will be focused on one another and their nation 's internal problems , and that they will have little appetite for attacking a state that proved considerably stronger and more resilient than it appeared on October 8 . Israel , in any case , has a long history of establishing relationships with various ethnic and religious groups in Syria and Lebanon , which effectively no longer exist as states . <p> As for the United States , it was irrelevant to most but not all of this drama . Its Kurdish allies in the east of Syria , backed by fewer than 1,000 U.S. Special Forces personnel , played a small role in this war , but continue to play a much larger one in the containment of the remnants of the Islamic State . <p> All of this presents an amazing , and amazingly complicated , set of political circumstances . But even as the fog of war hangs over Syria 's shattered cities -- we still do not know , for example , whether Bashar al-Assad got away -- some things are clear . <p> The first is that deeply unpopular authoritarian regimes tend to be far more fragile than they look . Few saw the sudden collapse of the Assad regime coming . Other authoritarian states , including Iran itself , may now become more tractable in dealing with foreign powers , and more paranoid internally . <p> The ubiquity of surprise in war is a lesson learned and relearned every few years , as is the centrality of the intangibles -- organization , planning , the will to fight , leadership -- in assessing military power . Had one studied the latest International Institute of Strategic Studies ' " Military Balance " entry on Syria , for example , one would not have guessed that a militia it estimated at 10,000 members would overthrow a military of 130,000 , backed by thousands of auxiliaries from Hezbollah and other militias , as well as 4,000 Russian troops . But so it happened . <p> Although wars may eliminate one set of problems or strategic circumstances , they usually create a new set . In this case , Iran has lost several of its claws , but others remain . After suffering a series of heavy defeats , the regime has to be terrified -- not least because , according to a recent federal indictment , it also plotted to assassinate President-Elect Donald Trump . That may cause it to seek to accommodate the United States , and there are already some hints to that effect . At the same time , Iran 's strategic exposure and vulnerability give it strong incentives to acquire nuclear weapons . <p> Finally , the United States has again been frustrated in its long-standing desire , which dates back to the Obama administration , to leave the Middle East . The Biden administration 's calls for a cease-fire in Syria were pointless and ineffectual . Along with its failure to anticipate the collapse of our Afghan allies in 2021 , and its inability to do more in Ukraine than provide enough weapons to prevent Kyiv 's defeat , it shows what happens when strategic thought withers into good intentions and wishful thinking . <p> On Saturday , Trump himself weighed in on these events . " Syria is a mess , but is not our friend , &amp; THE UNITED STATES SHOULD HAVE NOTHING TO DO WITH IT , " he wrote . " THIS IS NOT OUR FIGHT . LET IT PLAY OUT . DO NOT GET INVOLVED ! " But that call to stay out of Syria ignores our military presence there , and offers no answer to the question of what to do about our Kurdish allies and their thousands of ISIS prisoners . But the incoming administration also faces a much bigger problem : If Iran does indeed choose to sprint for nuclear weapons , Trump 's White House will have to decide whether to call in the heavy bombers and forestall that move , which would trigger a landslide of nuclear proliferation well beyond the Persian Gulf . And it might face that decision very early on . <p> To paraphrase a famous aphorism , we may not be interested in the Middle East , but the Middle East is interested in us . The events of the past weeks may yet lead Trump to conclude that this is really not the best time to begin a witch hunt for wokesters in the U.S. military . And , if he is confirmed as secretary of defense , Pete Hegseth may yet learn that female pilots can drop bombs with the best of them . 
@@118616313 <p> Sign up for The Slatest to get the most insightful analysis , criticism , and advice out there , delivered to your inbox daily . <p> Amnesty International became the first major human rights organization last week to officially accuse Israel of genocide in Gaza . Its 296-page report presents evidence that includes accounts of mass civilian killings and dire living conditions in the densely populated and blockaded Gaza Strip , which Amnesty argues are calculated to bring about the destruction of Palestinian life . As the report put it , " Israel committed and is committing genocide against Palestinians in Gaza . " <p> Israel has strongly denied the accusations , saying they are " based on lies " and accusing the report of ignoring Hamas ' violations of international law . With other groups , including the United Nations and Human Rights Watch , raising alarms about Israel 's military actions , and the International Criminal Court issuing an arrest warrant for Israel 's prime minister , the report arrives at a moment of heightened international debate over the legal and ethical dimensions of the war . <p> To explain the findings and implications of the report , I spoke with Nadia Daar , chief strategy and impact officer at Amnesty International USA , who oversees U.S.-based advocacy and communications for the group . In our conversation , she detailed how the investigation was conducted and responded to the denunciations in Israel , including a disavowal from some in Amnesty 's own Israel-based outfit . <p> Slate : Can you walk me through your approach to creating this report ? <p> Nadia Daar : This is an incredibly in-depth investigation . It is the latest of over a dozen reports from Amnesty since October 2023 , and the evidence for this report has partially come from that work . In addition , we have done over 200 interviews , used satellite imagery , verification using geo locating , and consolidated data collected from U.N . agencies and other humanitarian organizations operating on the ground . We then examined all of our evidence against the international crime of genocide , established in the Genocide Convention , a legal standard established in 1948 . And we have concluded that the Israeli government has committed and is continuing to commit genocide against Palestinians in Gaza . And this must urgently be put to a stop . <p> What specific cases most contributed to your conclusions ? <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> We have documented in detail 15 airstrikes that took place between October 7 , 2023 and April 20 2024 . Across them , at least 334 civilians were killed , including 141 children and hundreds of others wounded . We uncovered evidence of weapons of U.S. origin used in some of those attacks . In one illustrative case , in April , an Israeli airstrike destroyed a family house in the Al-Janina neighborhood in eastern Rafah , killing three generations of Palestinians , including 16 children while they were sleeping . Over 42,000 Palestinians were killed since October , over 13,000 of them children , the highest number of journalists and U.N . workers killed in any modern conflict . And what we have described in our investigations of indiscriminate attacks is just a fraction of the destruction . <p> Especially with so journalists and workers killed , what logistical challenges did you face in reaching people , verifying their stories , and deciding what evidence could be included in the report ? <p> We have a field worker in Gaza who has been an incredible asset in enabling us to do that level of reliable research in Gaza . We also have a crisis evidence lab , and have conducted over 200 interviews . But the obstruction of the freedom of the press , not allowing media organizations in the Gaza Strip , and the devastating number of U.N . workers , humanitarian workers , and local journalists who have also been killed in Gaza , has made this work extremely dangerous . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Producing this report has been complex and challenging , but it has not been impossible for us to develop this research . And we feel very strongly about the findings . And we hope that people and policymakers in particular will take these findings seriously . <p> We have established through our investigation the intent to destroy , a key threshold for the genocide standard , not by only looking at genocidal statements . We analyzed over 100 statements by Israeli government and military officials -- not just the phrases shared widely in social media -- who have authority to make decisions on the conduct of the military , and then looked at how those statements have been repeated and interpreted by Israeli soldiers on the ground in Gaza , identifying how those statements translated onto the battlefield , which is vital . But statements are not the only way in which we established Israel 's specific intent to physically destroy the Palestinians in Gaza . <p> Prohibited acts under the convention fall into five categories , and we found that the Israeli government is incriminated in three of them : killing members of the group , causing them serious mental and bodily harm , and deliberately inflicting on the group conditions that are calculated to bring about their destruction in whole or in part . But the point that I really want to highlight is the denial and obstruction of the delivery of aid and essential services into Gaza , which has created a deadly mixture of malnutrition , hunger , and disease . Palestinians are living in terror , not only for the threat of a bomb dropping on them every night but also for lack of medical treatment , food , and water . It 's the pattern of conduct which is critical for us to establish Israel 's intent here : repeated indiscriminate attacks , repeated displacement to unsafe and unsanitary conditions , repeated attacks on civilian infrastructure , and repeated denial and blockage of critical aid . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> How do you differentiate between reckless disregard for civilian life and an intent to destroy civilian life , especially in a legal context ? <p> We are not disregarding the fact that the Israeli government has stated military objectives in Gaza : to destroy Hamas and the safe return of hostages . Those are military objectives and military intent . But the intent to commit genocide can be demonstrated either as a means to achieve that military objective or as a standalone objective . In the legal standard for genocide , there can be dual intent , or it can be a means for the intended military objective . <h> Related From Slate <p> With the Trump administration taking office soon , do you think this political shift will affect how this report is received or understood by the international community ? <p> This is an international report , not a U.S-specific report . Indeed , we 've been pushing the Biden administration for the last 14 months to take the human rights violations much more seriously and to immediately stop the transfer of weapons to the Israeli government . What we hope this report will do is raise the level of urgency globally and urge the Biden administration and also the incoming Trump administration to not allow for this to continue . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> We are operating in different legal contexts in every country we 're operating in . We 're the largest and oldest human rights organization . By virtue of the kind of work we do , we put out reports that are uncomfortable for many political leaders . The U.S. and Israel have ratified the Genocide Convention . The U.S. is obligated under international law to prevent and to punish for the crime of genocide . We continue to be extremely concerned to see the transfer of weapons , and frankly , the U.S. is risking complicity in genocide by continuing to do so . <p> There 's an ongoing ICJ case that was initiated by South Africa over Israel 's alleged breach of its obligations under the Genocide Convention . Genocide is not included in the crimes that Israel is being charged with right now . The office of the prosecutor of the ICC must urgently consider adding genocide to its ongoing investigation of alleged crimes committed by Israeli officials , and states must do everything in their power to respect the ICC arrest warrants , including the United States . <p> Israeli officials have already alleged bias in this report by saying it ignores " Hamas ' violations of international law . " They also challenged Amnesty to address Hamas 's actions , including the treatment of hostages . Will there be a report on those issues ? How do you respond to that ? <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> As an international human rights organization , it 's critical that we look at all parties when there are potential risks of violations of human rights standards . Amnesty has unequivocally condemned the violations and atrocity crimes that were perpetrated by Hamas and other armed groups in Israel on October 7 , 2023 , and we continue to analyze the actions of Palestinian armed groups under international humanitarian law and international criminal law . We 've condemned the taking civilian hostages , which is a war crime . We 've put out a report in the press soon after October 7 that demonstrated our own assessment , and have concluded that war crimes have been committed by Hamas and other Palestinian groups . But our organization 's wider investigation into the October 7 attacks and its aftermath is ongoing , and that report will come out with the findings and legal analysis in the coming months . <p> Too often , we face " If you 're lifting up this group 's human rights , then you must not be lifting up these human rights . " Human rights are not zero sum . Human rights are for everyone . They are universal , and we need to hold that universal standard . And that is actually the basis for Amnesty 's work . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Israel 's branch of Amnesty International responded to the report like this : " While the Israeli section of Amnesty International does not accept the accusation that Israel is committing genocide , based on the information available to us , we are concerned that serious crimes are being committed in Gaza , that must be investigated . " How do you respond to that ? <p> It 's deeply disappointing that some members of Amnesty Israel have chosen to distance themselves from this report and from its conclusion . It 's evidence-based , impartial , ethical research . That 's at the heart of everything that Amnesty International does . That 's something that we take extremely seriously and that we pride ourselves on . This particular investigation went through extensive legal analysis and research , extensive internal review at the highest levels , and also external and international legal experts . Our organization stands by this report , this research , and its conclusion . 
@@118621300 <p> Click here to browse full transcripts of " Face the Nation with Margaret Brennan . " <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : I 'm Margaret Brennan in Washington . <p> And this week on Face the Nation : There is breaking news overnight , as Syrian rebels overthrow dictator Bashar al-Assad 's regime . What are the implications for the Middle East and American security ? <p> Syrian rebels swept into the capital city of Damascus today with breakneck speed , finally toppling the brutal al-Assad regime after 13 years of civil war . It 's a conflict that former and soon-to-be-President again Donald Trump is familiar with . He wants bomb Assad 's military to punish him for using chemical weapons and then ordered U.S. troops out of Syria six years ago . <p> Trump spent Saturday reconnecting with U.S. allies in Paris . <p> ( Begin VT ) <p> DONALD TRUMP ( Former President of the United States ( R ) and Current U.S. President-Elect ) : It certainly seems like the world is going a little crazy right now . <p> ( End VT ) <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : We will have the latest from the region and we will talk to the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee , Ohio Republican Mike Turner . <p> Then : Following the congressional task force investigation into security failures leading to the assassination attempts of Donald Trump earlier this year ... <p> ( Begin VT ) <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE KELLY ( R-Pennsylvania ) : At every step of the way , they failed . <p> ( End VT ) <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : ... top investigators Pennsylvania Republican Mike Kelly and Colorado Democrat Jason Crow will give us their findings on how to fix the Secret Service . <p> Finally : With the future of controversial social media giant TikTok in doubt , we will hear from a potential buyer . <p> It 's all just ahead on Face the Nation . <p> Good morning , and welcome to Face the Nation . <p> For the first time in 54 years , the al-Assad family is no longer ruling Syria . <p> ( Begin VT ) <p> ( SHOUTING ) <p> ( End VT ) <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Rebels who 'd been fighting government forces for 13 years swept through Syria in two weeks , capturing Damascus , taking the Syrian people and the world by surprise . <p> Dictator Bashar al-Assad appears to have fled the country . And we are reminded this morning of the horrors from his reign of terror . His brutal suppression of anti-regime protests in 2011 sparked the world 's largest refugee crisis . Since then , the mass atrocities became too numerous to detail , the death toll impossible to tally , including due to the regime 's use of chemical weapons against civilians . <p> Assad dared to test whether America and the world would stop him , something then-President Obama chose not to do militarily , even after he crossed that so-called red line . <p> BOB SCHIEFFER : The death toll in what appears to be a poison gas attack in the Syrian civil war continues to rise . By some estimates , as many as 1,800 people may have been killed . Rebels blame the Syrian government , which continues to deny any responsibility . <p> Whoever is responsible , perhaps nothing can better help us understand the horror of Syria than this video of a mother telling her small child goodbye , almost as if she is hugging her good night and tucking her into bed . <p> ( End VT ) <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : President-elect Donald Trump met Saturday with French President Emmanuel Macron , as well as Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy , who is lobbying for more aid from the U.S. and NATO allies in his country 's war with Russia . <p> In a post on his TRUTH Social Web site early this morning , Mr. Trump blamed Assad 's defeat on the entanglements of his allies , saying Russia lost all interest in Syria because of Ukraine , and , along with Iran , Russia is in a -- quote -- " weakened state " right now . <p> Trump called for an immediate cease-fire in Ukraine , saying that Zelenskyy and Ukraine wanted to make a deal to stop the madness . <p> IMTIAZ TYAB ( voice-over ) : Scenes like this would have been unthinkable just one week ago , Syrian rebels in the heart of Damascus celebrating the fall of the regime , with the whereabouts of President Bashar al-Assad unknown , as people wept for joy in the streets ... <p> ( MAN SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE ) <p> IMTIAZ TYAB : ... shouting " Freedom . " <p> ( MAN SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE ) <p> IMTIAZ TYAB : Some rebels appeared on state TV to announce Assad 's removal . His stunning defeat was at the hands of an alliance of armed groups who launched a lightning-fast offensive seemingly out of nowhere , and who faced little resistance from the Syrian army . <p> The rebel forces say they have now -- quote -- " fully liberated " a number of major cities . And they have also emptied prisons filled with those who dared to stand up against Assad 's rule during the country 's nearly-14-year civil war , a war that , up until now , had seemed frozen , even forgotten . <p> But as the statues and monuments to the Assad dynasty continue to be pulled to the ground , the family 's blood-soaked half-century of authoritarian rule passed from father to son is now over . Ten years ago , at the height of the civil war , which was born out of the Arab Spring uprisings ... <p> ( MAN SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE ) <p> IMTIAZ TYAB : ... Assad was then just barely clinging to power . But Russia and Iran , along with Lebanon 's powerful Iranian-backed Hezbollah militia , came to his rescue and tipped the war firmly in his favor through a punishing campaign of well-documented war crimes , including indiscriminate airstrikes and chemical weapons attacks , a brutality against his own people that 's hard to fathom . <p> But Russia is now preoccupied with its war in Ukraine . Hezbollah 's leadership has been decapitated after a year of bitter fighting with Israel . And Iran along with its other proxies have also been degraded by Israeli strikes . <p> Assad 's 24-year rule looks unlikely to be rescued or resurrected , ushering a new , but deeply uncertain era for Syria . <p> ( End VT ) <p> IMTIAZ TYAB : And a key leader of Syria 's armed opposition , Abu Mohammad al-Golani , who belongs to a group known as Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham , which used to be aligned with al Qaeda , has forbid anyone to go near the buildings housing Syria 's state institutions , signaling the rebels want to support a peaceful transition of power . <p> But the power vacuum left by Bashar al-Assad is enormous , Margaret . And the fear is , these groups could soon turn on each other and begin a new , perhaps even darker chapter in this already ugly civil war . <p> And we 're joined now by the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee , Ohio Congressman Mike Turner . <p> Just a stunning turn of events within such a short period of time . The U.S. does n't have a diplomatic presence inside of Syria . Our visibility is a little limited here . What is it that you think Americans need to know about this turn of events ? <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE TURNER ( R-Ohio ) : Well , Margaret , that was an excellent report , because you certainly laid the groundwork of this has been an incredibly brutal civil war with hundreds of thousands of people dying , including the use of chemical weapons , and , of course , reminding people that the Obama administration had said this would be a red line , that we would use military force to stop the use of chemical weapons , then failing to do so . <p> This is a -- an Islamic militia that has risen up and has continued and now is successfully toppling the Assad regime . As your report indicated , it 's al Qaeda in its origins , but it opposes ISIS . It is Turkish-backed . <p> This is a blow to Iran , a blow to Russia . We 're seeing what is likely a disintegration in -- in Syria . The big questions will be , what does this mean for the U.S. ? What does it mean for Iran , Russia , the neighbors of Israel and Jordan , which are strong allies of the United States ? <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : So , you mentioned there and we showed the picture of Abu Mohammad al-Golani . He is the leader of Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham , people call HTS . You 're going to hear a lot about that in the coming days and weeks , the rebel group that appears to be taking control . <p> But they are working also with the prime minister . The United States government has a ten million bounty on the head of Jolani . Do you think the United States still should keep that ? Should Americans be concerned that this will mean something in terms of impact for terror threats to the United States ? <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE TURNER : Well , this is a terrorist organization and group , but this is not going to be just a passing of power and authority . It could be . We 'll have to , obviously , watch that . <p> You know , one of the things that we do see here , though , is , this is a diplomatic failure with respect to the United States and Turkey . You know , the U.S. has troops in Syria . This is on the border of Turkey . Turkey is a NATO ally . The United States is working with the Kurds . This really could have been an opportunity for the United States to work to try to resolve the issue between the Kurds , Turkey and the United States and working with Turkish interests in Syria . <p> Hopefully , this could be an opportunity where there could be a diplomatic support there that hopefully could have -- you know , help in this transition in Syria . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : There are 900 U.S. troops in Syria in the South . <p> Donald Trump in 2019 pulled U.S. troops out of Northern Syria , abandoning our allies there . Do you believe he will stand by the 900 U.S. troops that remain there , or should he consider pulling them out when he takes office ? <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE TURNER : Well , I think , you know , one of the things that Donald Trump will make clear is , is that any threat to U.S. troops will be unbelievably responded to . <p> So , everyone should understand , absolutely , that the United States troops are to be secure . The second thing is , is , he does absolutely support the Kurds and that he 's going to look for a diplomatic solution . I think there will be an assessment as to whether or not those troops should remain . <p> But it 's -- you know , I think , here , there is an opportunity for the parties , especially now that Iran and Russia 's roles are going to be diminished -- diminished . They have been brutal in their support with Assad , the hundreds of thousands of people , including use of chemical weapons , that have been killed have been under the Russian influence there . <p> Russia still has two bases , a naval and air force base there , that are going to be , you know , both at risk for Russia , but also a risk to the population of Syria , because they could -- they have been used before to attack the Syrian population . <p> We 'll have to see what Russia does there . But this is going to be an area that 's going to be highly volatile and in transition . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : I want to ask you , since we 're talking about the incoming administration . <p> Donald Trump has chosen Tulsi Gabbard , the former congresswoman , a former Democrat , now Republican , to be the director of national intelligence , overseeing 18 intelligence agencies . <p> She not only went and met with Assad . She publicly doubted high-confidence assessments by U.S. intelligence that he did what we showed you pictures of him doing , using chemical weapons there . <p> Do you trust that she could actually represent the intelligence community , lead it and be trusted to brief the commander in chief ? <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE TURNER : Well , I obviously differ in a great deal in a number of areas with both her judgment and -- and her background and experience . <p> But what I do trust is the ... <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : You 're smiling when you 're saying this . <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE TURNER : ... is the Senate -- is the Senate 's process . <p> And I think the -- the senators are going to put her through a process . She has been nominated . She will go through the process , and I think there will be significant debate and evaluation . I think ... <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : You do n't think she 'll be confirmed ? <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE TURNER : ... that Donald Trump has put together in his last term , and I think he will in this term , a great national security team . <p> I think CIA Director Ratcliffe , I think Mike Waltz as national security director ... <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Mm-hmm . <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE TURNER : ... are both great examples of people who are going to be foundational . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Yes . <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE TURNER : And I think you 're going to see a great national security team . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Well , this is a community that you also have oversight of . So you may not vote in the Senate , but it sounds like she does n't have your confidence . <p> What about Pete Hegseth to run the Pentagon at a time of global instability ? <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE TURNER : Yes , I think -- I think the chairman of the Armed Services in the Senate has made a great statement . He said , we certainly support the process , and he has his support going through the process , and we 'll have to see how that goes through . <p> One thing that is absolutely clear is that the Pentagon needs reform . We are not keeping pace with what Russia and China are doing in advanced weapon systems . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Mm-hmm . <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE TURNER : At the same time , we 're seeing the weapon systems of advanced technology that are being utilized on the battlefield of Ukraine , and our acquisition systems and our accounting systems , our spending systems are not working at the Pentagon . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : That requires experience . <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE TURNER : We need reform . We need reform . Someone has to be able to lead that , and that 's going to be the debate in the Senate . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : I love when I ask congresspeople , and they just keep reminding me that they do n't sit in the Senate and do n't want to comment . I sense some -- some uncertainty there on your part , but I do n't want to put words in your mouth . <p> I want to ask you , though , about what is ticking down in Congress right now . And that is something -- there 's a scramble at the end of this year to get a bunch of work done . <p> Your Democratic colleague in the Senate Mark Warner , said : " It is an urgent priority to address cybersecurity gaps in these final weeks . " <p> Is it a priority for you to do something because of this massive breach by China of U.S. telecom ? <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE TURNER : You know , one thing that 's -- that 's very disappointing and we 've seen from this administration , this malaise of -- or this stasis of where they 're unable to move as a result of the president unable to make a decision . <p> Here , we have this massive breach , this hack that has occurred from China , but we 're hearing nothing from the president himself , no action from this administration as to what their -- what consequences there will be . <p> This is not -- does n't need just a technological fix . This needs also a diplomatic fix , a nation-to-nation consequences to China . You know , in the Obama administration ... <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : What would consequences look like ? <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE TURNER : In the Obama administration , China hacked the personnel management system of the U.S. government , and there were no consequences . And now we 're seeing China hack the entire system of the nation . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Yes . <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE TURNER : There needs to be consequences . They can be economic . They can be in a number of ways . <p> But , right now , we have zero . We have nothing coming out of the administration . What need -- we need to be talking about is not , technologically , how do we fix this ... <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Mm-hmm . <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE TURNER : ... but how do we address -- which is what Donald Trump is doing , is coming in and saying , China is our most -- gravest threat . How do we address the fact that China is aggressively attacking the United States ? And they 're doing that in our telecom . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Question for the incoming administration to pick that up . <p> Thank you , Chair Turner . <p> Face the Nation will be back in a minute . Stay with us . <p> ( ANNOUNCEMENTS ) <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : For some analysis on the events unfolding in the Middle East , we 're joined now by Andrew Boyd , a CBS News contributor who previously held leadership positions at the CIA and once served in Damascus as a Foreign Service officer , and Mouaz Moustafa , the executive director of the Syrian Emergency Task Force . <p> Welcome back to Face the Nation . <p> Mouaz , I want to start with you . <p> You have been involved with the Syrian opposition for well over a decade . Help us understand what it means to see the regime fall . <p> MOUAZ MOUSTAFA ( Executive Director , Syrian Emergency Task Force ) : It 's an indescribable feeling of happiness that this regime , this dictator who has made the worst crimes of the 21st century , alongside Russia and Iran and ISIS , all of these horrible people have been defeated by a coalition of rebel forces that did not need any support from any outside country , not Turkey , not Qatar , not anyone . <p> This time around , Syria was liberated by its people for its people . And it 's truly inspiring . And it 's not just good reverberations for Syria , for the Middle East and Europe as well . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Well , there 's a lot of uncertainty as to what this all means . <p> Andy , you have watched this region very closely for some time . At this hour , none of the officials that I have spoken with in regional governments , in the U.S. government seem to know where Bashar al-Assad even went . Does it matter where he went ? <p> ANDREW BOYD : Mouaz may differ on this one . I do n't think it does now that the government has fallen . <p> I do think what unfolds over the next couple of weeks and , if the opposition actually treats all of the factions in Syria with dignity and respect and ensures their safety , we will have more understanding , because there 's a lot of atrocities that were carried out by the Assad regime . <p> Those people are probably still in Syria . And so we will see how that goes . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : A fair point . The people who worked within the regime , they 're still there ? <p> ANDREW BOYD : The Syrian military intelligence , the military -- the other intelligence services , Syrian General Intelligence Directorate , I mean , have a lot of blood on their hands . So ... <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Yes . <p> And I know that you personally , Mouaz , were involved in smuggling out documented evidence of some of the torture , of the mass atrocities , the systematic , institutionalized violence that happened from some of those prisons . You brought it to Congress . You made it public . <p> What do you think we can learn now as those billing -- buildings are being seized by rebels ? <p> MOUAZ MOUSTAFA : Well , the first thing that we are working really hard , and I can tell you all the rebel factions are working really hard to do , is find Austin Tice and hopefully bring him home , God willing , now back to this family . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : An American journalist who once worked at CBS News for some time , a Marine veteran . <p> MOUAZ MOUSTAFA : And he 's a hero . <p> He went to cover the plight of the Syrian people from what Assad , Iran and Russia have been doing to them . And , God willing , we bring him home alive . But we need to find him and bring him to his mom , no matter what . And the Syrians owe him a debt forever . <p> And , also , other Americans that are undeclared , and freeing Syrians from prisons is something that 's really important . But the collection of that intelligence , as well as the Hezbollah , Iranian , Russian , Assad regime , any officials that have been arrested by the Syrian people , again , without any support of the international community or regional countries , who actually worked to try to save Assad , that is valuable . <p> That 's valuable to the United States . That 's why we need to engage with this new emerging government that , God willing , is the path to democracy . The only Arab country in the world ... <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Yes . <p> MOUAZ MOUSTAFA : ... with the hope of being a democracy is Syria . That 's incredible . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : That 's a big promise to make . <p> MOUAZ MOUSTAFA : It 's not a promise . It 's hope that 's realistic . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Or hope . Hope . <p> Andy , but the -- right now , the person we 're seeing emerge , we showed him in Umayyad Mosque ... <p> ( CROSSTALK ) <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : ... hugely symbolic place to come and make a speech in Damascus , is this leader of a terrorist group designated , by the United States as a terrorist ... <p> ANDREW BOYD : Correct . Correct . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : ... $10 million bounty on his head . <p> ANDREW BOYD : Correct . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : What does that signify to you ? <p> ANDREW BOYD : Well , as Congressman Turner said , it 's not going to be an easy process to undesignate Abu Mohammad al-Jolani . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : You -- which means the U.S. ca n't talk to him . <p> ANDREW BOYD : The U.S. ca n't talk to him . <p> I mean , we can accommodate some sort of flexibility there , but he 's not going to instantly come off the designation list . So , I mean , we will see . I mean , you have said that -- that he 's going to respect all the factions , the Druze , the Christian , even the Shia and Alawi , who are responsible for the deaths of hundreds of thousands of Syrians . <p> ANDREW BOYD : But -- but time will tell . I mean , I 'm a born skeptic , as a lot of my colleagues at the agency are . We will see . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Go ahead , Mouaz . <p> MOUAZ MOUSTAFA : Yes . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Tell us who is in this . You talked about it as a coalition , not just HTS . Who are these people who now seem to be in control of Syria ? <p> MOUAZ MOUSTAFA : Sure . <p> First of all , since the whole world is boiling down the whole Syrian revolution to one faction of a coalition , or , let 's say , even one person within a faction of that coalition , let 's discuss that . <p> Why was HTS put on the terrorist list ? It was put on a terrorist list over an older version called Jabhat al-Nusra that had a loose affiliation with al Qaeda ... <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Yes . <p> MOUAZ MOUSTAFA : ... not a transnational or regional terrorist thing , but an inter-Islamist whatever . <p> I do n't agree with any ... <p> ANDREW BOYD : But , Mouaz , I think Margaret 's talking also as a person , Abu Mohammad al-Jolani . I mean , he was in al Qaeda in Iraq . He worked for Abu Musab al Zarqawi . He spent several years in Bucca prison as a detainee . <p> So we 're also -- we 're talking HTS , Jabhat al-Nusra , but also him as a person . He 's designated ... <p> ( CROSSTALK ) <p> MOUAZ MOUSTAFA : Sure , let 's talk about him as a person . <p> But what 's hilarious about this is , right now , as millions of Syrians come back from Europe and are ready to come back home , as people have not been displaced and there has been zero reports of violations -- and I was on the phone with the bishop of Aleppo . <p> The reason I was on the phone is that President Trump and people in President Trump 's camp were concerned about the Christians in Syria . Of course , there 's so much focus on -- any time there 's something , terrorist , terrorist . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Right . <p> MOUAZ MOUSTAFA : And what ended up happening is , the bishop of Aleppo said , sir , first , it 's the coalition of groups , including HTS . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Yes . <p> MOUAZ MOUSTAFA : And we have had electricity more now than we have under the regime , and our only fear is Russian airstrikes . <p> So I 'm glad that President Trump still -- still ... <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Yes . <p> MOUAZ MOUSTAFA : ... told Russia what it should do . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Right . <p> MOUAZ MOUSTAFA : Get out of Syria . And it has done so . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Well , we will be watching to see whether that continues to be the case and what transpires and what it means ... <p> And HTS has defeated it and defeated ISIS . The old designation is kind of irrelevant . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Yes . Well , we will be watching this developing story . <p> And we will be right back . <p> ( ANNOUNCEMENTS ) <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Tonight on 60 Minutes , a look at how the crypto industry flexed its political muscle by donating enormous sums of money to get pro- crypto candidates elected . <p> ( Begin VT ) <p> BRAD GARLINGHOUSE ( CEO , Ripple ) : Crypto for all of us . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN ( voice-over ) : Brad Garlinghouse is the CEO of a company called Ripple , whose cryptocurrency , XRP , became the third largest in the world this past week . <p> Ripple and two other companies contributed $144 million to super PACs that supported pro-crypto Republicans and Democrats . <p> BRAD GARLINGHOUSE : Do I think we had an impact to elect a Democratic senator in Michigan , Elissa Slotkin ? Yes , absolutely . Do I think we had an impact in Arizona , a Democratic senator in Arizona , Gallego ? Absolutely . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : But you helped supercharge the candidates with the money in the coffers , right ... <p> BRAD GARLINGHOUSE : We absolutely did . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : ... on whatever it is they wanted to talk about . <p> BRAD GARLINGHOUSE : That 's absolutely right . <p> ( End VT ) <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : You can watch my full report tonight on 60 Minutes . <p> ( ANNOUNCEMENTS ) <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : We will be right back with a lot more Face the Nation , including our conversation with the bipartisan chairs of a congressional task force investigating what went wrong with law enforcement in the Butler , Pennsylvania , assassination attempt of former President Trump . <p> Stay with us . <p> ( ANNOUNCEMENTS ) <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Welcome back to Face the Nation . <p> On Friday , we sat down with Republican Mike Kelly and Democrat Jason Crow , the leaders of the bipartisan congressional task force investigating the assassination attempts on former President Trump . <p> We wanted to know what they learned about the challenges facing the Secret Service when it comes to keeping protectees safe . <p> ( Begin VT ) <p> REPRESENTATIVE JASON CROW ( D-Colorado ) : The area that I in particular looked at was the culture of the organization , because I was struck by the stories and the recount of the specific actions of officers and agents on the ground that day . <p> And there were some heroic ones , but there were also a lot of examples of people that knew that something was wrong and they did n't say anything . <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE KELLY ( R-Pennsylvania ) : Yes . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Why did n't anyone say anything ? Were they unaware of vulnerabilities , or is there a culture of silence , where people speaking up get smacked down for doing so ? <p> REPRESENTATIVE JASON CROW : That 's -- that is my concern , is that there 's a culture of silence and that individual officers and agents are not empowered to say something is wrong . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Congressman Kelly , on that point , I mean , some of this sounds like management 101 , that this is not specific to the Secret Service . A lot of organizations have problems like what you just highlighted there . <p> Acting Director Rowe testified Thursday he thinks the Secret Service needs to identify leaders earlier on and promote them based on ability , not just hours logged on the clock . <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE KELLY : But is n't that true of everything in life ? <p> When you look at this , when people talk about , we need better leadership than that , I was on those grounds the night before . They were n't set up at that point . They were going to work through the night to get it ready . And then you find out afterwards that there was no coordination , there was no team meeting , there was no , well , this is going to be your responsibility to know where you 're supposed to be and what time you 're supposed to be there . <p> You bring local law enforcement in , but you do n't -- you do n't include them in the planning . Or , when you do the -- the interviews afterwards , well , I thought he was going to do it . No , we thought somebody else was going to do it . <p> When you knew there was a suspicious person on the grounds -- and this is a common -- going back and forth now . This is where they said they were n't communicating with each other . You ca n't tell me that you did n't know until 10 minutes after 6:00 that you could n't communicate . At 11 minutes after 6:00 , the shooter took action . <p> They knew an hour-and-a-half ahead of time . Out of all the thousands of the people walking around on that ter -- on that property , there was a suspicious person , and they kept losing sight of him . <p> I would have said -- and I have no background in law enforcement -- keep the president back until we clear the area . That 's the part that does n't make sense . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Yes . <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE KELLY : Because they failed from the first thing , from the picking of the site , preparing the site , to the coordination of the site , to the ability to communicate . <p> At every step of the way , they failed . And the question is , why did n't you just say , hold up , just hold up , do n't let him come out ? <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Well , when the acting director says on Thursday of this week , we need to pick better leaders , that would suggest that the agency today does not necessarily have the leaders it needs to fix ... <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE KELLY : Oh . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : ... all the things you just laid out . <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE KELLY : Yes . <p> And I think , by saying what he said , that 's what he meant . They do n't have the leadership they need . When they morphed them into Homeland Security back in 2001 , 2 -- whenever it was , they took away their identity and their exclusivity . When you 're the best of the best , when you 're the elite of the elites ... <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Mm-hmm . <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE KELLY : ... if you lose that , then all of a sudden you just become part of a team . <p> There was a huge mistake back when Homeland came into existence . That 's not a criticism , because they did what they had to do back then . But I 'm telling you , on July 13 , there was a lack of professionalism , there was a lack of concern , there was a lack of coordination . <p> And the ability to communicate is the one thing I will never understand . You knew you could n't talk to each other . Why did you go forward ? <p> REPRESENTATIVE JASON CROW : I want to be really clear that there are plenty of extraordinary agents and officers in the Secret Service , right ? <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Mm-hmm . <p> REPRESENTATIVE JASON CROW : And when we talk about a failure of mission , you know , in Butler or any place else , that does n't mean that , you know , 80 , 90 percent of the -- of the Secret Service agents are n't phenomenal and dedicated professionals . <p> But there is a systematic problem here . The structure , the personnel , the staffing of the Secret Service , has n't changed in years , at the same time as we are now asking them to do things that they did n't do a decade ago . <p> And they are -- they are fulfilling an operational tempo that requires them to be deployed ... <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Mm-hmm . <p> REPRESENTATIVE JASON CROW : ... three weeks out of a month , constantly doing events , skipping firearms training , skipping leadership development training . We are not developing their skills and their training . And I think you see the results of that . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : So , you made three dozen recommendations in this report on what to change , including to reduce the number of protectees . <p> Right now , Secret Service protects not only presidential leadership , their immediate families , their spouses , their children , candidates , and anyone really the president designates . Should all of that continue ? <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE KELLY : We 've increased the size of protectees that are out there , including foreign assets that come here and people that bring -- bring their families and things . So that 's gotten so big . <p> But , if you look at Homeland , I think -- I think , when you look at Secret Service , it 's about 3 percent of their overall spend . The biggest spend is on FEMA . And , now , we do n't want to change anything like that . <p> But you ca n't have an exclusive without funding them to the level that they need to be funded , not only in manpower and in training , but in the assets that they have to have available to them . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Mm-hmm . <p> REPRESENTATIVE JASON CROW : You always have to ask yourself , what are your missions and what is the thing that only you can do ? Like , what is that no- fail mission ? <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Mm-hmm . <p> REPRESENTATIVE JASON CROW : In this case , with the Secret Service , that no- fail mission is to protect our highest-level candidates and our highest- level elected officials , period . <p> All the other things , investigation of financial crimes , training and support , these are all secondary missions . So , if you 're not actually adequately performing any of those missions to standard , and if you have reached a breaking point , then it 's time to assess , what are those missions that need to fall off and to be transitioned elsewhere ? <p> That 's my view . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : You , Congressman Crow , seemed very frustrated , based on the report and hearing that you have ... <p> REPRESENTATIVE JASON CROW : Do I seem frustrated ? <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE KELLY : No , no , you 're very ... <p> ( CROSSTALK ) <p> ( LAUGHTER ) <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Well , with the fact that you could n't find out more about the shooter , both in Butler and in -- the potential shooter in Mar-a- Lago . <p> REPRESENTATIVE JASON CROW : Yes . <p> That 's actually a really important element to the story . And people have rightful questions about it . I have questions about it . And that is , why did the shooter do this ? <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Mm-hmm . <p> REPRESENTATIVE JASON CROW : What drove him to do it ? Was he a lone wolf shooter ? Did he have associates or affiliates ? What was his motivation ? How was he radicalized ? <p> We endeavored to get answers to those questions . We submitted numerous requests to the Department of Justice and FBI . Their response is , this is an ongoing criminal investigation , and we ca n't give that information to Congress . <p> That , in my view , is an unacceptable position . And here 's why . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : For both Butler and Mar-a-Lago , that was the answer ? <p> REPRESENTATIVE JASON CROW : Correct . That 's right . <p> And here 's why that 's unacceptable . I sit on the Intelligence Committee . I have sat on the Armed Services Committee . And Congress all the time gets access to our nation 's most sensitive secrets , ongoing operations , intelligence operations , military operations . <p> So you ca n't tell me that there is n't a way to put us into a secure facility and get us information about an ongoing criminal investigation , when I regularly am receiving briefs on what our -- our spies and our military special operators are doing regularly around the world . <p> So , none of this stands to reason . And we have dedicated ourselves to continue to get those answers . And if the FBI and DOJ thinks that they can wait us out and stonewall us , they are wrong . <p> REPRESENTATIVE JASON CROW : I do n't know what their intention is . I mean , I 'm not a mind reader . But , you know , I have been around Congress long enough to know what -- what ... <p> ( CROSSTALK ) <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE KELLY : When you get stonewalled . Yes . Yes . <p> REPRESENTATIVE JASON CROW : When you get stonewalled . <p> I mean , listen , this is -- this is not uncommon ... <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE KELLY : No . <p> REPRESENTATIVE JASON CROW : ... when you 're dealing with agencies and departments . It 's a pretty regular method . And it 's something that , you know , we encounter all the time in our oversight responsibilities . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : So , we do n't know , or tell me if perhaps you know answer to this . <p> REPRESENTATIVE JASON CROW : Yes , we 're -- we 're in ... <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Was there a foreign nexus ? Do we know , yes or no ? <p> ( CROSSTALK ) <p> REPRESENTATIVE JASON CROW : Americans are deluged with misinformation and disinformation that 's coming from a variety of sources . <p> And conspiracy theories sometimes take root when there 's a lack of information or there 's conflicting information . So our job is to try to get information out there , to be transparent , to be accessible , to tell the real story . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Mm-hmm . <p> REPRESENTATIVE JASON CROW : And that 's why this is important . This element of that story is important , because there 's a lot of conspiracies around ... <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE KELLY : Absolutely . <p> REPRESENTATIVE JASON CROW : ... these shootings , right ? And we take that seriously . <p> And we want to -- we want to , you know , rebuff those . But , you know , in this case -- and I sit on a lot of other committees with access to information -- I have seen no evidence that a state actor , an adversary was responsible for either of these attempted assassination attempts . I have seen no evidence . <p> But , you know , when you 're in a position where , you know , the government says , well , it 's not this , but we wo n't tell you what it is , right , and -- and we ca n't tell you -- we ca n't tell you definitively , well , you know , people respond and have questions about that . <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE KELLY : Mm-hmm . <p> REPRESENTATIVE JASON CROW : And I understand that mentality . So , even though we do n't have evidence of one thing , people still want to know what else it is . And I still want to know what else it is . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Did he act alone ? Do we know that ? <p> REPRESENTATIVE JASON CROW : We do n't know that . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Or Congress does n't know that . <p> REPRESENTATIVE JASON CROW : Yes . <p> And , you know , it 's one thing to say -- and I 'm going to be really clear about this . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Yes . <p> REPRESENTATIVE JASON CROW : Because this is very , very sensitive territory ... <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE KELLY : Yes . <p> REPRESENTATIVE JASON CROW : Because we want to make sure we 're not ... <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Right . <p> REPRESENTATIVE JASON CROW : ... getting people spun up unnecessarily . <p> There is no evidence of -- from other sources , you know , internal government sources , from our investigation , that others were involved , that he acted with others , and that a foreign state or adversary was involved in this . <p> But that still raises the question of , why did he do this ? <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Mm-hmm . <p> REPRESENTATIVE JASON CROW : Was just -- was he just a disturbed young man who decided to take action alone ? Probably . I mean , that 's probably the answer . <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE KELLY : That 's what it looks like now , yes . <p> REPRESENTATIVE JASON CROW : Right ? <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE KELLY : Yes . <p> REPRESENTATIVE JASON CROW : That 's what it looks like . But we need to know , right ? And let 's get the information out there that the government has to make sure that we can settle this . And that 's -- that 's our obligation . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Is the agency today able to do its job , if they were n't able to do it in July ? <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE KELLY : We were tasked with trying to find out what happened that day , why it happened that day , and to -- and to the best of our ability make sure that the Secret Service , that does n't happen again to them . <p> We ca n't guarantee that these things wo n't happen . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Mm-hmm . <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE KELLY : Because it 's a crazy world right now . But there was too much ahead of time that we did know that we did n't share . <p> I would never let my child play near a road . And when you do , you put people in jeopardy of that and you know there 's a danger there . Do n't let it happen . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Is there anything that you feel important to raise that we did n't talk about ? <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE KELLY : We never identified as Republicans and Democrats . We -- we defined as a task force to find out what happened that day . <p> And the whole -- the whole goal from day one is to restore the faith and trust and confidence that the American people must have in this agency . At this point , it 's probably at the lowest ebb it 's ever been . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Mm-hmm . <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE KELLY : And the other thing is , I think we realize that threats are 365 days a year , 24 hours a day . You ca n't take a day off . You ca n't take a play off . You 've got to be ready every single moment for anything that could possibly happen . <p> Is that a difficult task ? Yes . Is it almost impossible ? Yes , there 's a lot of bad actors out there . But you know what 's not impossible ? Our dedication to the fact that we 're going to do the best we can do every single day to ensure that the American people have the faith and trust and confidence they must have in us . <p> REPRESENTATIVE JASON CROW : This is a tough place to work . <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE KELLY : Oh . <p> ( LAUGHTER ) <p> REPRESENTATIVE JASON CROW : And there are -- frankly , there are some people here that do n't belong here , that I think are just here to get attention , to get , you know , clicks on social media , that are n't here to legislate . <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE KELLY : Yes . <p> REPRESENTATIVE JASON CROW : But this has been one of the best experiences of my time in Congress . And I could n't have asked for a better partner than Mike Kelly . <p> You know , and he 's a very conservative Republican , and I 'm a Democrat . We 're both proud of that . <p> REPRESENTATIVE JASON CROW : We represent the culture and the politics and the hopes and dreams of our districts . And that 's what 's so -- so beautiful about this place when it works well . <p> But this process -- and I think this is really important for Americans to understand -- this process was serious . It was bipartisan . It was -- it was deep . And we did the job that we were asked to do . <p> ( End VT ) <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : You can watch our full interview on our Web site and our YouTube page . <p> We will be right back . <p> ( ANNOUNCEMENTS ) <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : A panel of federal judges in D.C. last week upheld a new law that could effectively ban the popular social media app TikTok by mid- January if its Chinese owners do not sell it to a new buyer . <p> Frank McCourt , the executive chairman of McCourt Global and founder of Project Liberty , is one of the potential buyers , and he joins us now . <p> Good to see you here . <p> FRANK MCCOURT ( Executive Chairman , McCourt Global ) : Good morning . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : So , TikTok says , well , they might go to the Supreme Court on this one . If they do n't , their parent company , ByteDance , has said they 're not interested in selling . <p> Do you have any indication that they will and that the incoming Trump administration would support someone like you buying it ? <p> FRANK MCCOURT : Well , yes , I think where we are now , Margaret , is , there 's three options . <p> You know , one is an appeal . Our lawyers tell us there 's very little chance of a successful appeal by ByteDance , strong bipartisan legislation , a 3-0 by the three -- you know , by the appellate court . <p> So now that leaves us with two , a ban or a sale . We do n't want to see it banned . I would add that President -- president-elect Trump has also said he does n't want to see it banned . So now let 's talk about the sale . <p> So we 've been working for the last eight months on the assumption that the legislation would be upheld and that there would be a sale . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Mm-hmm . <p> FRANK MCCOURT : So , that 's where we are right now . And we 're working very , very hard to be in a position to buy the U.S. portion of TikTok ... <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Right . <p> FRANK MCCOURT : ... so it 's not shut down . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : So , what is that worth to you ? There are estimates it could be as high as $200 billion in worth . <p> FRANK MCCOURT : Two hundred billion dollars would be more -- more in the range of what the entirety of the platform is worth , not just the U.S. piece . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Mm-hmm . <p> FRANK MCCOURT : And let 's be clear . The Chinese government has said they 're not selling the algorithm . They view that as I.P. of the country . <p> So , Tik -- U.S. TikTok is a piece of ByteDance . If it 's sold , it will be sold without an algorithm . So the value will be far , far less than 200 -- $200 billion . We have circled over $20 billion to be in a position , and we 're very serious about raising whatever capital is required to buy the platform . <p> And -- and , to be clear ... <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Yes . <p> FRANK MCCOURT : ... we 're looking to move the 170 million users over to a new protocol , where the individuals will own and control their identity and their data . We 're not looking to replicate the existing version . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : So , let 's talk about that . <p> As you said , 170 million Americans use TikTok , especially young people . U.S. law prohibits foreign control of mass media , but this social media space is kind of a loophole here . There are n't a lot of governing rules in this space . <p> Do you think Congress needs to write new rules of the role -- of the road to ban foreign ownership and to put restrictions on even owners like you ? <p> FRANK MCCOURT : I think we need to upgrade our regulations and our policies . There 's no doubt about that . <p> FRANK MCCOURT : But -- but President -- President Trump is a dealmaker . We know that . I 'm a dealmaker , OK ? I have been doing business deals my entire -- my entire life . <p> Let 's make a deal where everybody wins , where China 's able to sell the U.S. portion of TikTok , where American citizens are protected , and where there 's -- and 170 million users continue to enjoy the platform . So he has said he does n't want it banned , which means a sale . <p> And the legislation and the -- the appellate decision require that this platform be -- be owned by Americans . We have built a clean , bottom-up American stack to move this user base over , where there will be no Chinese backdoors and no ability to -- to take advantage of American citizens . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : You -- you 're indicating you 've built out some technology , you think , that will not allow for government surveillance ? <p> FRANK MCCOURT : Correct . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : But can you , if you are -- whoever owns this is going to be powerful , if you get 170 million Americans on a platform , particularly young people , to consume the information on this system . <p> So what guarantees do you make ? Because Facebook and Twitter , they also harvest information about consumers . Would you ? <p> FRANK MCCOURT : Yes , well , that 's exactly what we do n't want to do . <p> So the reason why we want to move people to a new stack where you ca n't harvest without permission , so individuals will own and control their identity and their data , permission its use , will actually have an Internet that respects people , as opposed to exploits them . <p> Imagine empowering people . And , to be clear , Margaret , I 'm not looking to be the CEO of TikTok . We call it the people 's bid , because we want this to empower people and to stop this nonsense where we 're exploiting people by scraping their data and taking advantage of them , and , in the case of TikTok , actually creating a national security threat . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Elon Musk , who owns X , formerly known as Twitter , now has raised concerns about content moderation restricting free speech . Do you share that concern , and what restrictions would you put on paid political advertising ? <p> FRANK MCCOURT : I mentioned earlier that we need better policies , for sure , but we need better tech . <p> Right now , we have a tech stack that 's built , and these giant apps scrape our data and exploit it . Why not flip the power ? Why not actually give people their data back ? <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Should -- OK , so the surgeon general says you need a warning label because this is damaging the mental health of young people in this country . <p> Should people under the age of 16 have access ? <p> FRANK MCCOURT : Under the current tech stack , I agree with the surgeon general . Under a new technology -- listen , I 'm a builder . My family has been building for five generations . <p> This is an engineering problem that can be fixed . Let 's take this ban of TikTok ... <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Mm-hmm . <p> FRANK MCCOURT : ... this massive national security problem , and turn it into a solution for Americans . Let 's make it a win , a win-win . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Yes . <p> Well , mid-January , we will see what happens in this case . And we will watch your potential bid here . Thank you for joining us . <p> We 'll be back in a moment . <p> ( ANNOUNCEMENTS ) <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : The weeklong cease-fire between Israel and Hezbollah in Lebanon appears to be holding , but the situation in Gaza remains dire . <p> Here 's our Debora Patta reporting from East Jerusalem . <p> ( Begin VT ) <p> DEBORA PATTA ( voice-over ) : A massive Israeli strike caught on camera by CBS News as it ripped through the Al-Mawasi tented camp near Khan Yunis , a designated humanitarian safe zone turned into a blazing inferno . <p> Faced with unpredictable danger , exhausted families on the move again . Israel says it was targeting two Hamas militants . But over 20 people died , among them four children and a pregnant woman . <p> ( MONA SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE ) <p> DEBORA PATTA : In Central Gaza , 13-year-old Shadi Faraj ( sp ? ) was playing outside when he was killed . <p> ( MONA SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE ) <p> DEBORA PATTA : " This is proof of their crimes , " his aunt Mona ( sp ? ) shouted . " They just want to kill as many Palestinians as possible . " <p> In Northern Gaza , Israel has ordered everyone to leave . It is under siege . Even as Palestinians flee , they are shot at . Israel has allowed virtually no aid into the north for more than two months . In the south , this is what it looks like outside the few remaining bakeries , as people fight just for a piece of bread . <p> Every morning , 11-year-old Zeina Juhab ( sp ? ) braved those crowds , until one day she did not come home . She had been trampled to death . <p> ( AHMED SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE ) <p> DEBORA PATTA : " The world looks at us , and all they see are terrorists , " her father , Ahmed ( sp ? ) , told us . " We 're not terrorists . We just want to survive . " <p> But no one , it seems , is listening , as hunger spreads everywhere . <p> ( End VT ) <p> DEBORA PATTA : Amnesty International says there is no time to waste and has warned the U.S. to stop sending weapons to Israel because of the likelihood , Margaret , that these would be used for war crimes or genocide. 
@@118625300 <h> United States News <p> REFORM , Ala . ( AP ) -- A federal judge ruled that the family of former NFL player Glenn Foster Jr. , who died in law enforcement custody in Alabama , can pursue a lawsuit alleging his death was the result of excessive force . Foster , a former New Orleans Saints defensive end , died on Dec. 6 , 2021 , three days after ... <p> DEIR AL BALAH , Gaza Strip ( AP ) -- Israeli airstrikes in central Gaza killed at least 14 people including children Sunday , Palestinian health officials said , while the bombing of a hospital in northern Gaza wounded a half-dozen patients . Israel 's military continues its latest offensive against Hamas militants in northern Gaza , whose remaining Palestinians have been almost ... <p> WASHINGTON ( AP ) -- The sudden collapse of the Syrian government under Bashar Assad is forcing the Biden administration and the incoming Trump team to confront intensifying questions about the possibility of greater conflicts across the Middle East . President-elect Donald Trump said Sunday that Assad had fled his country , which his family had ruled for decades , ... <p> PALM SPRINGS , Calif . ( AP ) -- Ten people were injured after a police traffic officer on a motorcycle crashed into bystanders at a holiday parade in Palm Springs , authorities said . All of the injured were taken to hospitals for treatment of injuries that were not life-threatening Saturday night , including the police officer , according to police . The ... <p> NEW YORK ( AP ) -- Police do n't know who he is , where he is , or why he did it . As the frustrating search for UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson 's killer got underway for a fifth day Sunday , investigators reckoned with a tantalizing contradiction : They have troves of evidence , but the shooter remains an enigma . One conclusion they ... <p> ALBUQUERQUE , N.M . ( AP ) -- U.S. President Theodore Roosevelt did in 1906 what Congress was unwilling to do through legislation : He used his new authority under the Antiquities Act to designate Devils Tower in Wyoming as the first national monument . Then came Antiquities Act protections for the Petrified Forest in Arizona , Chaco Canyon and the Gila ... 
@@118625302 <p> ALBUQUERQUE , N.M . ( AP ) -- U.S. President Theodore Roosevelt did in 1906 what Congress was unwilling to do through legislation : He used his new authority under the Antiquities Act to designate Devils Tower in Wyoming as the first national monument . <p> Then came Antiquities Act protections for the Petrified Forest in Arizona , Chaco Canyon and the Gila Cliff Dwellings in New Mexico , the Grand Canyon , Death Valley in California , and what are now Zion and Bryce Canyon national parks in Utah . <p> The list goes on , as all but three presidents have used the act to protect unique landscapes and cultural resources . <p> President Joe Biden has created six monuments and either restored , enlarged or modified boundaries for a handful of others . Native American tribes and conservation groups are pressing for more designations before he leaves office . <p> The proposals range from an area dotted with palm trees and petroglyphs in Southern California to a site sacred to Native Americans in Nevada 's high desert , a historic Black neighborhood in Oklahoma and a homestead in Maine that belonged to the family of Frances Perkins , the nation 's first female cabinet member . <p> Looting and destruction <p> Roosevelt signed the Antiquities Act after a generation of lobbying by educators and scientists who wanted to protect sites from commercial artifact looting and haphazard collecting by individuals . It was the first law in the U.S. to establish legal protections for cultural and natural resources of historic or scientific interest on federal lands . <p> For Roosevelt and others , science was behind safeguarding Devils Tower . Scientists have long theorized about how once-molten lava cooled and formed the massive columns that make up the geologic wonder . Narratives among Native American tribes , who still conduct ceremonies there , detail its formation . <p> Biden cited the spiritual , cultural and prehistoric legacy of the Bears Ears and Grand Staircase-Escalante areas in southern Utah when he restored their boundaries and protections through his first use of the Antiquities Act in 2021 . <p> The two monuments were among 29 that President Barack Obama created while in office . Amid concerns that Obama overstepped his authority and limited energy development , President Donald Trump rolled back their size , while adding a previously unprotected portion to Bears Ears . <p> Biden called Bears Ears -- the first national monument to be established at the request of federally recognized tribes -- a " place of healing . " <p> Saving sacred places <p> Early designations often pushed tribes from their ancestral homelands . <p> In one of his final acts as president in 1933 , Herbert Hoover used the Antiquities Act to set aside Death Valley as a national monument . It 's now one of the largest national parks -- not to mention the hottest , driest and lowest . <p> While establishing the monument brought an end to prospecting and the filing of new mining claims in the area , it also meant the Timbisha Shoshone were forced from the last bit of their traditional territory . It took several decades for the tribe to regain a fraction of the land . <p> Biden 's administration has made strides in working with some tribes on managing public lands and incorporating more Indigenous knowledge into planning and policymaking . <p> Avi Kwa Ame National Monument was Biden 's second designation . The site outside of Las Vegas is central to the creation stories of tribes with ties to the area . <p> Republican Nevada Gov . Joe Lombardo said at the time that the White House did n't consult his administration before making the designation in 2023 -- and in effect blocked clean energy projects and other development in the state . <p> Similar opposition bubbled up when Biden designated Baaj Nwaavjo I'tah Kukveni National Monument in Arizona just months later . This time it was n't the prospect of clean energy projects sprouting up across the desert , but rather uranium mining near the Grand Canyon that had tribes and environmentalists pushing for protections . <p> Creating conservation corridors <p> Biden certainly did n't break any records with the number of monuments he designated or the amount of land set aside . But conservationists say more strategic use of the authority under the Antiquities Act will be valuable going forward as developers look to build more solar and wind farms and mine for lithium and other minerals required for a green energy transition . <p> They are pushing for Biden in his final weeks to expand California 's Joshua Tree National Park and establish a new monument that would stretch from the Joshua Tree border to the Colorado River where it divides California and Arizona . The proposed Chuckwalla National Monument has the support of several tribes . <p> Such a designation would add a significant piece to one of the largest contiguous protected corridors in the U.S. -- spanning thousands of square miles along the Colorado River from Canyonlands in Utah , through the monuments already designated by Obama and Biden to the desert oases of Southern California . <p> " The concern out there is that so much land is getting used for renewable energy and it just kills the desert completely . And so if we 're not more proactive about protecting these places in the desert , we could lose them forever , " said Kristen Brengel , senior vice president of government affairs for the National Parks Conservation Association . <p> More than sweeping landscapes <p> Biden 's designations have gone beyond the canyons and mesas of the West . <p> In May , he designated a national monument at the site of the 1908 race riot in Springfield , Illinois . That designation came as he tried to retain relevance in his final months in office and boost Vice President Kamala Harris 's presidential campaign while Trump cut into Democrats ' historic edge with Black voters . <p> In 2023 , Biden created a national monument across three sites in Illinois and Mississippi in honor of Emmett Till and his mother , Mamie Till-Mobley . Emmett Till was the Black teenager from Chicago who was abducted , tortured and killed in 1955 after he was accused of whistling at a white woman in Mississippi . <p> A petition still is on the table for designating the Greenwood area of North Tulsa , Oklahoma -- the site of the 1921 Tulsa Race Massacre -- as a national monument . So is a proposal to establish a monument along the Maah Daah Hey Trail in the North Dakota Badlands , where tribes want to shift the narrative to include stories about the land 's original inhabitants . <h> United States News <p> DEIR AL BALAH , Gaza Strip ( AP ) -- Israeli airstrikes in central Gaza killed at least 14 people including children Sunday , Palestinian health officials said , while the bombing of a hospital in northern Gaza wounded a half-dozen patients . Israel 's military continues its latest offensive against Hamas militants in northern Gaza , whose remaining Palestinians have been almost ... <p> WASHINGTON ( AP ) -- The sudden collapse of the Syrian government under Bashar Assad is forcing the Biden administration and the incoming Trump team to confront intensifying questions about the possibility of greater conflicts across the Middle East . President-elect Donald Trump said Sunday that Assad had fled his country , which his family had ruled for decades , ... <p> PALM SPRINGS , Calif . ( AP ) -- Ten people were injured after a police traffic officer on a motorcycle crashed into bystanders at a holiday parade in Palm Springs , authorities said . All of the injured were taken to hospitals for treatment of injuries that were not life-threatening Saturday night , including the police officer , according to police . The ... <p> NEW YORK ( AP ) -- Police do n't know who he is , where he is , or why he did it . As the frustrating search for UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson 's killer got underway for a fifth day Sunday , investigators reckoned with a tantalizing contradiction : They have troves of evidence , but the shooter remains an enigma . One conclusion they ... <p> ALBUQUERQUE , N.M . ( AP ) -- U.S. President Theodore Roosevelt did in 1906 what Congress was unwilling to do through legislation : He used his new authority under the Antiquities Act to designate Devils Tower in Wyoming as the first national monument . Then came Antiquities Act protections for the Petrified Forest in Arizona , Chaco Canyon and the Gila ... 
@@118653715 <p> Ten candidates , revealed this morning on NBC 's Today show , are under consideration for TIME 's annual designation . Here are the finalists , in alphabetical order by last name . <h> Kamala Harris <p> Ronda Churchill -- AFP/Getty Images <p> The night of July 21 , President Joe Biden announced he was ending his presidential campaign and endorsed Vice President Kamala Harris for the Democratic nomination . What followed was a remarkable 107-day presidential campaign as Harris sought to become the first woman President . Harris centered her campaign on reproductive rights , slamming former President Donald Trump for his role in the U.S. Supreme Court 's decision to overturn Roe v. Wade , and suggested that Trump is a threat to democracy . But she lost to Trump , and conceded the race on Nov. 6 .. Harris , along with Biden , was previously on the Person of the Year cover in 2020 -- the year that the duo defeated Trump and former Vice President Mike Pence . <h> Kate Middleton <p> Samir Hussein -- WireImage/Getty Images <p> The Princess of Wales made international headlines this year and stirred a conversation about privacy and health for public figures . In January , Kate Middleton was hospitalized for two weeks for a " planned abdominal surgery " and Kensington Palace said she would be out of the public eye until Easter . But after conspiracy theories circulated online in March about Middleton 's whereabouts , the royal put the rumors to rest by revealing that she had been diagnosed with cancer . In September , Middleton announced that she had completed her chemotherapy treatment . Middleton was previously on the TIME100 list of Most Influential People in 2013 , and one of the runners-up for Person of the Year in 2011 . <h> Elon Musk <p> Tayfun Coskun -- Anadolu/Getty Images <p> Elon Musk has long been an innovative disrupter . From online payments to electric vehicles to commercial space , the Tesla CEO has upended industry , and in 2022 he purchased and revamped the social media platform previously known as Twitter , rebranding it as X in 2023 . But 2024 was the year that Musk -- the richest person in the world , according to Forbes -- stepped into the world of politics . He endorsed Trump , appeared at rallies , promoted pro-Trump content on X , and helped Trump form his presidential agenda . After Trump 's victory , Musk 's power only grew , and the President-elect announced that Musk would co-lead a new commission , the Department of Government Efficiency , that is expected to propose cuts to the federal workforce and to regulations . Musk was previously named TIME Person of the Year in 2021 . <h> Yulia Navalnaya <p> Lukas Barth -- AFP/Getty Images <p> Russian economist Yulia Navalnaya has been in the spotlight this year after her husband and the country 's leading dissident Alexei Navalny died in February . Navalnaya announced after her husband 's death in prison that she would continue his work . She accused Russian President Vladimir Putin of killing her husband and has met with world leaders , including Biden , as Russia continues its war in Ukraine . Dubbed the " first lady " of the Russian opposition , Navalnaya also made the list of TIME 's 100 Most Influential People of 2024 . <h> Benjamin Netanyahu <p> Anna Moneymaker -- Getty Images <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has been one of the most influential and controversial world leaders this year . Defying criticism of his war on Hamas , the terrorist organization that killed 1,200 people in an attack against Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , Netanyahu continued his military assault on the Gaza Strip this year , even as the death toll there rose to 44,056 , according to the Gaza Health Ministry . In September , Netanyahu expanded the war to Lebanon in the north , as Israel killed much of the leadership of Iran 's proxy , Hezbollah , with air strikes and using explosives hidden in pagers . " We 're in the midst of a war , a seven-front war , " Netanyahu told TIME in August . " I think we have to concentrate on one thing : winning . " In November , the International Criminal Court issued arrest warrants for Netanyahu , his former defense minister , and Hamas ' military chief , on allegations of crimes against humanity . Netanyahu was on the TIME100 list in 2019 . <h> Jerome Powell <p> Yuki Iwamura -- Bloomberg/Getty Images <p> Jerome Powell has been chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve since 2018 , serving under both the Trump and Biden administrations . As chairman , he 's been steering the ship on the economy , which voters identified as the top issue in the 2024 election . Although Powell was nominated for the role by Trump , the President-elect repeatedly criticized the Fed during his first term in office , accusing it of keeping interest rates too high . Powell has since stressed the importance of the Fed 's independence from political parties and candidates . He 's been on the TIME100 list twice -- in 2019 and 2020 -- and was on the shortlist for Person of the Year in 2023 . <h> Donald Trump <p> Bill Pugliano -- Getty Images <p> In a stunning political comeback , Donald Trump won the 2024 election . He has reshaped the American electorate , activating young male voters who propelled him to a decisive victory that saw him win the popular vote for the first time and turn every swing state red . Trump 's remarkable victory comes after he lost the 2020 election to Biden and repeatedly refused to accept the results . His 2024 win is history-making in multiple ways : he will be the oldest President in U.S. history , and he was convicted earlier this year by a New York jury of 34 counts of fraud , making him the first convicted felon to be elected President . During his 2024 campaign , he identified the economy and the border as his top priorities . He 's promised to implement tariffs on America 's top trading partners -- Mexico , Canada , and China -- once he takes office , worrying economists , and has announced several controversial Cabinet appointments . Trump was previously named TIME 's Person of the Year in 2016 , the year he won the presidency for the first time . <h> Mark Zuckerberg <p> David Zalubowski -- AP <p> Mark Zuckerberg was under the microscope this year as the billionaire Meta CEO dealt with government scrutiny into Meta , which owns Facebook , Instagram , and other platforms . Earlier this year , Zuckerberg and other tech CEOs faced questioning during a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing on the impact of social media on young people . During the 2024 election cycle , election , state , and local officials expressed concern over the rampant spread of misinformation on Facebook . Forbesestimated that , as of December , Zuckerberg 's net worth reached $210 billion , making him the fourth richest person in the world . He made the list for TIME100 AI in 2024 , and was named TIME 's Person of the Year in 2010 , the year that Facebook surpassed more than half a billion users . 
@@118654115 <p> " It 's too risky , " said Lu , a senior majoring in finance . Lu cited Trump 's hawkish stance on China , restrictions during his first term on Chinese student visas for scholars because they were a security " threat " and promises to sign another travel ban like the one nearly eight years ago that left many visa-holding students stranded at airports . <p> A new report from Open Doors again ranked California as the top destination for international students . But concerns are growing over how foreigners at universities could fare under a second Trump term . <p> Nov. 17 , 2024 <p> At USC , where more than a quarter of its 47,000 students are internationals , many are scrambling -- with some changing their travel plans at the last-minute and others rethinking post-graduation work searches in the U.S. -- ahead of an incoming administration that has sent mixed signals on its interest in foreign students and workers . <p> The university is warning foreigners to follow in Lu 's footsteps by skipping or cutting short travel outside the U.S. after finals end next week . <p> " A new presidential administration will take office on January 20 , 2025 , and -- as is common -- may issue one or more executive orders impacting travel to the U.S. and visa processing . While there 's no certainty such orders will be issued , the safest way to avoid any challenges is to be physically present in the U.S. before the spring semester begins on January 13 , 2025 , " said a letter the USC Office of International Services sent this month . <p> Advertisement <p> Demonstrators rally at the Edward J. Schwartz Federal Building in San Diego in June 2018 against then-President Trump 's travel ban . <p> ( Hayne Palmour IV/San Diego Union-Tribune ) <p> During his first term , Trump 's travel restrictions affected several Muslim-majority nations , Iran and Iraq among them . The Supreme Court ruled the bans were legal . Outside the courtroom , immigration experts said the bans were based on limited and at times misleading data about security vetting of U.S. visitors , immigrants and refugees . <p> The Supreme Court handed President Trump the most significant legal victory of his presidency on Tuesday , upholding the administration 's ban on foreign visitors and immigrants from several mostly Muslim countries . <p> June 26 , 2018 <p> This time , he has said he will institute another travel and refugee ban on " Gaza , Syria , Somalia , Yemen or Libya or anywhere else that threatens our security . " <p> Advertisement <p> He said he continues to view China as an economic and security rival and will mandate tariffs on imports . At the same time , his campaign included promises to " automatically " give green cards , which is permanent residency , to foreigners who graduate from U.S. universities -- but said the group would be limited after vetting to keep only the " most skilled graduates . " <p> USC is not the alone in issuing its advisory . The University of Massachusetts Amherst 's Office of Global Affairs recently put out a similar message that " out of an abundance of caution , " international students should return to the country before the inauguration . The Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Wesleyan University also released such a notice . <p> Pragya Bhatt , a USC sophomore from Bangalore , India , said the university advisory brought into sharper focus concerns she was already feeling after the election . <p> " I am not as worried immediately about my own situation because I have a valid visa , am visiting home during the break and already had a ticket to be back here by January 13 , " said Bhatt , who studies communications and cognitive science . " But it really makes me wonder how friendly the U.S. is overall to people like me . I still have time before I graduate but I am wondering if I should even consider trying to stay in America afterwards . " <p> Trump 's presidential term could bring sweeping changes to financial aid , impact UC research funding and eliminate protections for LGBTQ+ and undocumented students . <p> Nov. 8 , 2024 <p> Niels W. Frenzen , a USC Gould School of Law professor and co-director of the school 's immigration clinic , said he has seen a rapid increase in questions from students over what the upcoming Trump term means for their immigration status . <p> " We have been doing know-your-rights sessions and lots of students have come in for individual sessions just to check in even if their paperwork is all in order , " said Frenzen , whose clinic recently hosted a workshop on immigration hurdles ahead of White House changes . The initial travel ban focused on Muslim-majority nations , but the revised version of it upheld by the Supreme Court included two additional countries , Venezuela and North Korea . <p> Advertisement <p> " It 's not just people who are international students , who are less likely to face issues but certainly did during the early part of the first Trump presidency during the Muslim ban , " Frenzen said . Concerns are also growing from " students who are undocumented , who come from mixed immigration status families or who are ' DACA-mented , ' " Frenzen said , referring to the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program that allows those who came to the U.S. as children without legal authorization to legally stay and work in the country . <p> Jihwan Lee , a USC student from South Korea , said the concern among internationals he knows depends on their home country 's relationship to the U.S. <p> " I personally do not have any direct concern for any potential travel restrictions .... I am staying here during the break anyway , and even if I left the U.S. , I do believe South Korean citizens would not be affected by such travel restrictions , " said Lee , who is pursuing a doctorate . South Korea is a strong U.S. ally . <p> " I do not think there will be such travel restrictions or visa problems for European Union citizens or pro-U.S . East Asian countries , for example , " Lee said . <p> President-elect Donald Trump tried to end DACA in his first term , so the roughly 535,000 recipients are bracing yet again for a whirlwind of uncertainty . <p> Dec. 1 , 2024 <p> Annabelle Layt , a USC senior from Australia , also said she was less concerned because of her background . <p> " I 'm in my fourth year , so in terms of the visa and documents needed for entering and exiting the country I know the drill , " said Layt , a business major . She said she had decided months ago to skip a winter break trip home , near Brisbane , to save money . <p> Advertisement <p> " But it 's really hard to know what will happen . Will Trump be better or worse for international students ? " <p> Some USC students and professors interviewed said they did not expect major changes or were not hearing student concerns . <p> " My group is nearly 100% international and we have always been affected by visa issues , " said Anna Krylov , a USC chemistry professor whose teachers many international students . " For example , two graduate students who joined my group this year lost a full year of studies because it took them more than a year to get their student visa . " <p> A longtime professor , she said she 's seen similar stories over the decade under Presidents Biden , Trump and Obama . <p> " In other instances , I had my students and postdocs stranded abroad , waiting for a visa renewal , for weeks and sometimes months , " Krylov said . " Our classes start on Jan. 13 , so I expect everyone to be back before that date . " <p> Jaweed Kaleem is an education reporter at the Los Angeles Times , where he covers news and features on K-12 and higher education . He specializes in reporting on campus activism and culture , including issues on free speech , religion , race and politics . Kaleem previously worked for The Times as a Los Angeles-based national correspondent and a London-based foreign correspondent . Follow him on Bluesky **25;2379;TOOLONG and X @jaweedkaleem. 
@@118665408 <h> Netanyahu will take questions from the press for the first time in 99 days . <p> In a dramatic press conference on the evening prior to the beginning of his criminal trial testimony , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu lashed out at Israel 's law enforcement and the media , accusing the former of a " political " investigation and a " witch hunt " intended to bring him down . <p> The prime minister accused law enforcement of an organized " method , " which began with harsh investigations of " dozens " of people in his vicinity and then with " fabricating " crimes that he did not commit . <p> Netanyahu linked the indictment of one of his aides , Eliezer Feldstein , to his own trial -- for leaking top-secret information to foreign press -- arguing that law enforcement treated Feldstein in ways that were " undemocratic , " charging that in this case as well , investigators pressured him to provide information about the prime minister himself . <p> Netanyahu gave as another example an ongoing investigation into Israel Prison Service head Koby Yaakobi and another senior police officer , the former reportedly for alerting the latter about suspicions that the police officer had provided National Security Minister Itamar Ben-Gvir with classified information in exchange for a promotion . <p> Yaakobi was detained for questioning by police investigators , who pulled him over while he was driving and did not give him prior notice . This was also an example of bad conduct by law enforcement , Netanyahu claimed . <p> The prime minister 's comments regarding the trial came as an answer to reporters ' questions following a statement in which he laid out Israel 's achievements in the war , arguing that they were a result of his ability to withstand pressure on him " from without and from within " to stop the war . <p> Netanyahu attacked individual reporters , including KAN 's Michael Shemesh and Channel 12 's Yolan Cohen , accusing them of spreading lies . However , the prime minister himself made a number of comments that contradicted his earlier statements or were misleading . <p> For example , he claimed in response to a question by Shemesh that he knew Feldstein and believed that he was a patriot ; Shemesh pointed out the prime minister 's first official response to the affair was to deny any connection to Feldstein . <p> The prime minister has refused to form a national commission of inquiry into the October 7 Hamas massacre , attempting instead to form an ad-hoc committee whose members will be appointed by Members of the Knesset from the coalition and opposition . <p> In response to a question on the matter , Netanyahu said that there were many people who did not approve of a national commission of inquiry . However , numerous polls have shown recently that a significant majority of Israelis prefer a national commission of inquiry over any other form of investigation . <p> Netanyahu has said in the past that the trial would not affect his ability to fulfill his duties , and he repeated the claim at the press conference on Monday , giving as an example the Abraham Accords and his government 's performance during the COVID-19 crisis . <p> The prime minister said that he was eager to testify and that claims he was attempting to evade his testimony were false . He then claimed , however , that testifying three times a week was " extraordinary . " Netanyahu has requested numerous delays in the trial in general and his testimony in particular , even after receiving a five-month delay that began in July . <p> Families of the " October Council " responded to the prime minister 's remarks on a state commission of inquiry , saying , " The public has spoken loud and clear . Over 80% of Israeli citizens demand a state commission of inquiry into the catastrophic failure of October 7 . " <p> " We , the bereaved families , families of hostages , and evacuees , urge the government to honor the will of the people . We will stand firm and united against any attempt to form a political whitewashing committee , " the statement said . <p> After the clash between the prime minister and journalists during the question and answer session , The Journalists Organization put out the following statement , saying that it " strongly condemns Prime Minister Netanyahu 's incitement and attacks against journalists who are simply doing their job and serving the public interest . " <p> " We stand firmly with journalists Yolan Cohen and Michael Shemesh as they carry out their professional responsibilities . The role of the media is to ask tough questions of the prime minister -- any prime minister . " <p> In the second case , known as Case 2000 , Netanyahu is suspected of proposing a deal to Yediot Aharonot owner Arnon ( Noni ) Mozes , whereby he would target Yediot 's main competitor , Israel Hayom , in exchange for positive coverage . <p> In the third case , known as Case 4000 , Netanyahu is suspected of providing Shaul Elovitch , a major shareholder of a number of communications and media companies , including Bezek , with regulatory benefits in exchange for positive coverage from Walla , which Elovitch also owned . In this case , Netanyahu was indicted for bribery on top of fraud and breach of trust . <h> Yair Lapid responds <p> After the press conference , Opposition leader Yair Lapid said , " On a day when four soldiers were killed in the North and three more in the Gaza Strip , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu focused on one thing only : himself . His speech was a disgraceful display of self-aggrandizement . " <p> " For anyone questioning why an individual facing criminal indictments can not serve as prime minister , last night 's press conference provided the answers . It was a parade of falsehoods and self-praise , with Netanyahu brazenly claiming credit for the achievements of the defense establishment , whose bravery contrasted starkly with his ineffectual leadership . " <p> " Netanyahu 's press conference did not address the nation 's concerns or provide reassurance . Instead , it served his personal agenda , coinciding with his upcoming court testimony . His assertion that he has been " waiting eight years to testify " is nothing short of farcical . Delays occurred because he exploited every legal loophole to avoid accountability . The legal system is not persecuting him ; rather , he is haunted by his own past . Netanyahu broke the law , and he must be held accountable . " <p> " Israel does not need Netanyahu to manage the current security crisis . In fact , his leadership contributed to the current turmoil . He bears responsibility for October 7 , the war , and the continued captivity of hostages . Moreover , his government , characterized by extremist elements , has deepened societal divisions and undermined national resilience . " <p> " Netanyahu must step aside to stand trial , negotiate a plea deal if he chooses , and allow Israel to restore stability and sanity . The State of Israel needs a path forward unimpeded by his divisive leadership . " <p> National Unity leader Benny Gantz posted on X/Twitter , saying , " This evening , as we mourn the loss of seven of our finest , the people of Israel deserve a prime minister who is moved and shaken when speaking about our hostages and fallen -- not when the conversation turns to himself . " <p> " It is deeply troubling that , in the name of his personal legal battle , Netanyahu is undermining the judicial system and fragmenting our society . " <p> Families from the ' October Council ' respond to the Prime Minister 's remarks on a state commission of inquiry , saying , " The public has spoken loud and clear . Over 80% of Israeli citizens demand a state commission of inquiry into the catastrophic failure of October 7 . " <p> " We , the bereaved families , families of hostages , and evacuees , urge the government to honor the will of the people . We will stand firm and united against any attempt to form a political whitewashing committee , " the statement added . <p> After the clash between the prime minister and journalists during the question and answer session , The Journalists Organization put out the following statement , saying , " The Journalists ' Organization strongly condemns Prime Minister Netanyahu 's incitement and attacks against journalists who are simply doing their job and serving the public interest . " <p> " We stand firmly with journalists Yulan Cohen and Michael Shemesh as they carry out their professional responsibilities . The role of the media is to ask tough questions of the Prime Minister -- any Prime Minister . " 
@@118665409 <h> Thanks to the integration of these technologies , Israel managed to neutralize threats on the two main fronts of the current war -- Hamas and Hezbollah -- within just a few months . <p> Israel 's success against Hamas and Hezbollah in this war stems from a fundamental principle that has underpinned Israel 's security concept since its founding : the principle of quality . This refers to the quality of both personnel and the science and technology within the IDF . <p> Alongside the human element , this war stands out for its extraordinary technological superiority . Most of the systems used by Israel -- from cyber to artificial intelligence ( AI ) and drones -- are the result of Israeli innovation . The majority of these technologies originated within the civilian ecosystem , with subsequent security applications . <p> This phenomenon , known as dual-use technology , has become a cornerstone of Israel 's security strategy . Dual-use technologies are defined as those developed in the civilian sphere but later adapted for military use , and vice versa -- technologies developed by defense agencies that are later adopted by the public ( such as GPS , originally developed by the US military ) . <p> For example , cyber or AI technologies intended for the civilian market are now being used to locate wanted individuals or make decisions on the battlefield . IDF soldiers from Unit 636 , operating under the 36th Division , eliminate Hezbollah terrorists in southern Lebanon , October 9 , 2024. ( credit : IDF SPOKESPERSON 'S UNIT ) <p> However , the disparity between civilian and security development mechanisms presents a significant challenge . <p> While the IDF relies on dedicated security developments -- such as missiles and armored vehicles -- many security innovations today stem from the civilian world . <p> The security development process is slow , cumbersome , and costly , whereas development in the civilian ecosystem is fast-paced , driven by a large volume of ideas that are quickly realized and with relatively small budgets . <p> In recent years , security development institutions around the world have become increasingly aware of the differences between these two development environments and have begun to adopt mechanisms typically found in the civilian sector , such as venture capital funds and start-ups . <h> Defense technology <p> For example , the Israel Defense Forces ' Research and Development Administration ( DDR&amp;D -- Directorate of Defense Research &amp; Development ) has entered this sphere through venture capital funds focusing on technological innovation . This has contributed to the rise of fields like defense tech , which combines civilian technologies with defense potential , including cyber , AI , drones , and space technologies . <p> Thanks to the integration of these technologies , Israel managed to neutralize threats on the two main fronts of the current war -- Hamas in the Gaza Strip and Hezbollah in Lebanon -- within just a few months . <p> One of the most striking conclusions from this conflict is that the integration of civilian and defense development mechanisms is a key to maintaining Israel 's technological superiority . This bridge between the innovative civilian world and the focused defense world must be further strengthened , and dual-use technologies must continue to be developed to ensure the future of Israel 's national security . <p> The writer , an IDF reserve maj. -gen. , is chairman of the Center for Cyber Research at Tel Aviv University . The center is co-hosting the DefenseTech Summit on December 10 and 11 at Tel Aviv University in collaboration with MAFAT , the Defense Ministry 's Directorate of Defense Research &amp; Development . 
@@118665412 <p> Zano , 20 , was from Yehud-Monosson ; Halpern , 19 , from Kiryat Ono ; and Cohen , 19 , was from Ashdod . They all served in the Shaked Battalion of the Givati Brigade . All three were killed by anti-tank fire while entering an armored IDF transport . <p> Additionally , 12 soldiers were wounded in the same incident , including two seriously . <p> By press time , this raised the IDF 's tally of soldiers killed since the start of the war last year to 816 , of whom 384 were killed since the start of the military 's ground operations in the enclave on October 27 . <p> Since the ceasefire signed on November 26 with Lebanon kicked in , there has been less activity and , therefore , fewer casualties on that front , though the military announced that four soldiers were killed on Monday . The IDF has not stopped operating in Gaza , however , as talks have been at a stalemate with the withdrawal of the Qataris from the negotiating table . <h> Israel-Hamas war <p> Since the announcement of the win of US President-elect Donald Trump , the Qataris have reentered the negotiation process , presided over by the Americans and the Egyptians , as the American envoy was set to travel to Israel to restart talks in a more official capacity , and also to discuss the developments in Syria . <p> In northern Gaza , the IDF has been focused primarily on Jabalya , where troops have reentered multiple times to clear out Hamas recuperation attempts . Troops have also operated in central Gaza and in Rafah. 
@@118665414 <h> Now is the time for Jerusalem to grasp the opportunity and push forward for a deal . <p> Waking up to the news that the savage regime of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad had fallen marked a monumental moment in the history of the Middle East . <p> For 54 years , Syria has been under the rule of the Alawite-minority Assad family after Assad 's father , Hafez Assad , took power in 1970 . Since the elder Assad 's death in 2000 , his son has ruled Israel 's northern neighbor with an iron first , clinging to power in the Sunni-majority country . <p> Since Syria 's civil war erupted in 2011 , Assad has suppressed insurrections by rebels by using extreme methods , including chemical weapons in 2013 on opposition-controlled suburbs of Damascus . The attacks led to the death of hundreds of civilians . In 2017 , Assad carried out another chemical attack on rebels in Khan Shaykhun , between Aleppo and Damascus . <p> Assad 's forces killed hundreds of thousands of civilians , and millions have been displaced , some internally and some abroad , creating one of the world 's largest refugee crises . <p> Following the toppling of his regime early on Sunday as rebel forces entered Damascus without a fight from the Syrian military , one of the heartening developments was reading the social-media posts of exiled Syrians rejoicing and planning their return to their " free " country.Syrian rebel leader Abu Mohammed al-Julani ( credit : REUTERS/Mahmoud Hasano/Media Branch of Syrian Rebel Operations Room/via REUTERS ) <p> There are certainly no tears shed in Israel over Assad 's demise . In addition to his war crimes against humanity , he was a sworn opponent of Israel 's existence and allowed Iran to commandeer his country to funnel weapons to Hezbollah in Lebanon . <p> With the rebels , led by Abu Mohammed al-Julani , set to take control of the war-torn country , however , the old adage of whether it 's better to cope with the devil you know comes into play . <p> The likelihood that Syria will emerge as a stable country that does n't present a threat to Israel is slim , but there is one major benefit of the regime change and its implications . Assad 's fall is one more domino in the crumbling of Iran 's influence in the region and in the increasing isolation of Hamas in Gaza . That opens the door a crack for the chances of a deal to be reached to free the remaining 100 hostages held by Hamas . <p> Hamas has already lost its on-the-ground ally , Hezbollah , which left its Gaza comrades out to dry when it agreed to a ceasefire with Israel late last month . Iran 's role as a spiritual ally to Hamas has also been greatly diminished , as Tehran 's weakness has been exposed threefold : its decision not to retaliate against Israel for the October 25 attack on its military facilities , its " defeat " in Lebanon with the tremendous loss its proxy Hezbollah suffered at the hands of Israel , and its abandonment of Assad in his time of need . <p> With the precarious ceasefire in the North holding for the time being , Hamas is more alone than ever in its fight against Israel as it struggles to survive . At its lowest point , the time for a hostage deal is ripe , and there appears to be movement from both sides after weeks of inactivity . <p> According to a Walla report , Israel has given to Hamas , through Egyptian mediators , an updated version of a proposal that involves the release of the remaining 100 hostages . The deal offers a ceasefire with Hamas that would last 42 to 60 days . During this period , Hamas would release female hostages , male hostages over 50 , and hostages in critical medical condition . Israel would release hundreds of Palestinian prisoners , including those serving life sentences , in exchange . <h> Hamas signals commitment to cooperation <p> Hamas spokesperson Sami Abu Zuhri last week said Hamas was ready for a deal . " We are committed to cooperating with any effort to reach a ceasefire in Gaza , and we are interested in ending the aggression against our people , " he said , according to Arab media reports . <p> The recent release of two videos made by Hamas of hostages Eden Alexander and Matan Zangauker further indicate that Hamas is feeling pressure and desperately wants a deal . <p> Now is the time for Jerusalem to grasp the opportunity and push forward for a deal -- whether it 's a partial release , as detailed last week , including women , children , the elderly and infirm ; or optimally , a comprehensive package that will release all of the hostages , install a new government in Gaza , and bring our troops home . <p> If Assad 's downfall turns out to hasten the return of Israeli hostages , it will be an ironic -- and wonderful -- twist to the legacy of a man who will go down in history as a bloodthirsty mutation and stain on humanity . 
@@118665416 <p> Smotrich called for decisive action in Gaza and the West Bank , urging the government to strip Hamas of its authority and dismantle remaining terror hubs in the West Bank . <p> " It is time to seize control of Gaza and strip Hamas of its civilian authority , cutting off its lifeline , " he declared . " We 've seen in Syria how regime leaders flee like rats when they realize they 've lost their grip on power . The same can be achieved in Gaza . We are close -- we 've already made tremendous strides there . Now , we must take the next step to secure a decisive and clear victory . " <p> Smotrich also criticized deals that would result in the release of some hostages , saying they compromised military achievements . " Instead of discussing partial deals that leave many hostages behind , compromise the war 's achievements , and diminish the chance of victory , we must press forward . We must stop fearing our own shadows and do what is necessary , " he said . <p> " If we take these necessary steps , with God 's help , we will see the remaining Hamas leaders flee like rats , desperate to save themselves and their families . This will bring all the hostages home and remove the threat to Israel once and for all . " Einav Zangauker , the mother of hostage Matan Zangauker and demonstrators protest calling for the release of Israeli hostages held in the Gaza Strip outside Hakirya Base in Tel Aviv , December 7 , 2024. ( credit : MIRIAM ALSTER/FLASH90 ) <h> Dismantling West Bank terror <p> Regarding the West Bank , Smotrich called for increased settlement and referred to the region as Iran 's last foothold . " The axis of evil 's ultimate hope is to establish a Palestinian state there as a base for the destruction of Israel , " he asserted . " Here , too , we must end the policy of containment and defense and shift to initiative and offense . We must dismantle terror hubs , strengthen Jewish settlements , and create facts on the ground that prevent the establishment of a Palestinian state and remove this possibility from the agenda once and for all . " <p> Smotrich also criticized the Attorney General and the prosecution for requiring Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to testify in court despite the war . " Tomorrow , the Prime Minister is expected to testify in court for extended hours , as required by the Attorney General and the prosecution , who have refused to postpone the testimony despite the war and the significant security challenges we face , " the RZP head said . <p> " The fact that the prime minister is required to appear in court at such a critical time is absurd and constitutes a severe blow to national interests , " he added . " Those who ignore this grave warning may find themselves responsible for security failures , and history will judge them accordingly . " <p> Despite the war 's economic strain , Smotrich assured that the economy would remain stable . " Wars are costly , and this latest conflict , spanning seven fronts , is particularly expensive , " he said . " However , fears of economic collapse , the government 's inability to pass a budget during the war , and capital flight from Israel have proven to be baseless . Despite the challenges of war , I can confidently say that Israel 's economy is strong and stable , thanks to the policies we are implementing . " <p> Smotrich ended his remarks on an optimistic note . " This is just the beginning . Israel 's economy will soar to unprecedented heights . " 
@@118665418 <h> Feldstein to be released to house arrest , Supreme Court rules <h> The additional suspect , a reserve IDF NCO whose identity has not been approved for publication , is set to remain in custody . <p> Eli Feldstein , an IDF spokesman attends the funeral of Yehuda Dimentman , in Homesh , in the West Bank , on December 17 , 2021 ( photo credit : SRAYA DIAMANT/FLASH90 ) <p> Eliezer Feldstein , the main suspect in the PMO leak scandal , is to be released to house arrest , but the non-commissioned officer who is the second defendant in the case will remain in custody , High Court Justice Alex Stein ruled on Monday . <p> The ruling thus partially accepted the state prosecution 's appeal against a regional court judge 's decision to release both defendants to house arrest . <p> Stein increased oversight over Feldstein 's house arrest , approving the use of an electronic tracking device , as well as granting law enforcement the right to listen to his electronic devices in order to ensure that he does not attempt to contact other people involved in the case . <p> According to the indictment , which was filed on November 21 , the NCO in April sent Feldstein a picture via the Telegram messaging app of a top-secret document , believing it to be imperative for the prime minister to receive directly . Feldstein did not immediately pass on the document . <p> At the beginning of September , he attempted to leak its contents to Israeli media , to counter mass protests that broke out after six bodies of recently executed Israeli hostages were retrieved from Gaza . Eliezer Feldstein , the central suspect in the PMO security leak affair . ( credit : IDF SPOKESPERSON 'S UNIT , Via Maariv ) <h> Leaked to foreign media <p> According to the indictment , after the Israeli military censor explicitly prohibited its publication , Feldstein leaked it to a foreign media outlet.The document itself has not been published , but according to the September 6 report in the German newspaper Bild , it described Hamas 's negotiating strategy and mentioned the protests as something helping its cause . <p> Stein explained his decision to differentiate between Feldstein and the NCO regarding house arrest : Feldstein had already passed on all of the top-secret information he had obtained and therefore was not a threat to pass on additional information . <p> The NCO , however , who worked in an intelligence unit that had access to many top-secret documents , was still a threat to divulge further information , and therefore could not be released from custody . 
@@118671610 <h> Follow Us <h> Iran urges Trump to change ' maximum pressure ' policy <p> FILE - Mohammad Javad Zarif , now Iran 's vice president for strategic affairs , pauses at the coffin of Foreign Minister Hossein Amirabdollahian , who was killed in a helicopter crash , on May 23 , 2024 , in Tehran . Zarif on Nov. 9 called on Donald Trump to reassess his stance on Iran . <p> Share <p> Iran urges Trump to change ' maximum pressure ' policy <p> share <p> TEHRAN , IRAN -- <p> Iran signaled an openness toward Donald Trump Saturday , calling on the president-elect to adopt new policies toward it after Washington accused Tehran of involvement in a plot to kill him . <p> Vice President for Strategic Affairs Mohammad Javad Zarif urged Trump to reassess the policy of " maximum pressure " he employed against the Islamic republic during his first term . <p> " Trump must show that he is not following the wrong policies of the past , " Zarif told reporters . <p> His remarks came after the United States accused Iran of conspiring to assassinate Trump . <p> The Foreign Ministry described the American accusations Saturday as " totally unfounded . " <p> Tehran and Washington severed diplomatic relations shortly after the Islamic revolution in 1979 . <p> 2015 nuclear power accord <p> Zarif , a veteran diplomat who previously served as foreign minister , helped to seal the 2015 nuclear accord between Iran and Western powers , including the United States . <p> However , the deal was torpedoed in 2018 after the United States unilaterally withdrew from the deal under Trump , who later reimposed sanctions on Tehran . <p> In response , Iran rolled back its obligations under the deal and has since enriched uranium up to 60% , just 30 percentage points lower than nuclear-grade uranium . <p> Tehran has repeatedly denied Western accusations that it seeks to develop a nuclear weapon . <p> Zarif said Saturday that it was Trump 's political approach toward Iran that led to the surge in enrichment levels . <p> " He must have realized that the maximum pressure policy that he initiated caused Iran 's enrichment to reach 60% from 3.5% and increased its centrifuges , " he said . <p> Provocations <p> " As a man of calculation , he should do the math and see what the advantages and disadvantages of this policy have been and whether he wants to continue or change this harmful policy , " Zarif said . <p> In December 2017 , Trump recognized Jerusalem as Israel 's capital and the following year moved the American embassy there . <p> Trump also recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights , which Israel captured from Syria in 1967 and later annexed . <p> During his first term , Trump also ordered the killing of revered Iranian military commander Qasem Soleimani , who led the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps foreign operations arm , the Quds Force . <p> Soleimani was killed in a drone strike while he was in the Iraqi capital , Baghdad , in January 2020 . <p> The Islamic Republic has not recognized its archnemesis Israel since the U.S.-backed shah was toppled in 1979 . <p> On Thursday , Foreign Ministry spokesperson Esmaeil Baghaei said he hoped the president-elect 's return to power would allow Washington to " revise the wrong approaches of the past , " although he avoided mentioning Trump by name . <p> On Tuesday , election day in the United States , Trump told reporters he was " not looking to do damage to Iran . " <p> " My terms are very easy . They ca n't have a nuclear weapon . I 'd like them to be a very successful country , " he said after casting his ballot . <p> Iran insists that it uses nuclear technology for safe and civilian purposes . <p> Trump 's election victory came after Iran and Israel attacked each other directly , raising fears of a further regional spillover of the conflicts in Gaza and Lebanon . 
@@118697415 <h> John Kerry 's enduring impact on US diplomacy <h> The unveiling of his portrait at the State Department is just recognition for a man who 's easily criticized but not always appreciated for serving the nation continually since being sworn in as a naval officer at 22 . <p> Former secretary of state John Kerry and Secretary of State Antony Blinken attended a portrait unveiling for Kerry on Monday at the State Department.Jacquelyn Martin/Associated Press <p> WASHINGTON <p> Twenty years ago , John Kerry suffered the worst fate possible for an American politician : He lost a one-on-one battle for the presidency . <p> I was there in Huntington , W.Va. , in March 2004 , when Kerry infamously said , " I actually did vote for the $87 billion before I voted against it . " The reference to Iraq War funding fueled voter concern about Kerry 's habit of vacillating . It was a gift for the plainspoken incumbent , President George W. Bush . <p> Yet instead of wallowing in his first-world problem , Kerry decided to rededicate himself to public service and global issues . The Massachusetts Democrat returned to the US Senate , became chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , and served as unofficial diplomatic emissary for President Barack Obama . His commitment earned him a formal job during Obama 's second term , serving as secretary of state . <p> The 68th secretary of state will now be remembered in the same way as Hillary Rodham Clinton and Condoleezza Rice , his two immediate predecessors , and all those back to Thomas Jefferson . That Founding Father was the first person to lead the nation 's No. 1 Cabinet agency . <p> " As his friend and colleague Wendy Sherman put it : John does n't do animus , " Blinken said Monday . " He took a beat . He reflected on how we might do things differently . And then he dusted himself off and got right back into the fight . " <p> It 's just recognition for a man who 's easily criticized but not always appreciated for serving the nation continually since being sworn in as a naval officer . Then , he was 22 . On Wednesday , he turns 81 . <p> I had the opportunity to watch Kerry every day he led the State Department . He 'd asked if I would consider quitting my job as a reporter to join his government staff in a strategic communications role . <p> Over the next four years , we traveled some 1.4 million miles , equivalent to 58 times around the world . Our team visited all seven continents . <p> We made more than a dozen trips to the Middle East , trying to prevent the outbreak of violence that has engulfed Israel , the Gaza Strip , the West Bank , and Lebanon during the past year . We spent countless hours working to convince the Iranians to curb their nuclear enrichment efforts , seeking to stave off the broader regional conflict boiling over today . <p> Advertisement <p> And we staffers watched as Kerry elevated climate change from a niche issue to a mandatory talking point . It was on the agenda for every bilateral and multinational meeting he held across 91 countries . <p> In particular , Kerry spearheaded the administration 's efforts to reach the Paris Climate Accord in 2015 . Sadly for him , the achievement was short-lived ; President Donald Trump backed out after he took office in 2017 . <p> Yet , again , Kerry did n't retreat . He simply reengaged . <p> When his former Senate colleague , Joe Biden , was elected president in 2020 , Kerry asked not for a plum posting but accepted an offer to serve as special presidential envoy for climate . He felt worsening storms and rising global temperatures only added to the urgency of the work he 'd started as secretary . His one request was walk-in access to the Oval Office . <p> His own office was back in the State Department . The man who 'd once led its 70,000-person workforce returned to Foggy Bottom under its leadership by Blinken , who had served as deputy secretary during his own term . <p> Bring up Kerry to his critics in Massachusetts -- and beyond -- and many words and phrases pour out : " Swift Boat . " " Fire hydrant . " " Sailboat . " " Medals . " " Flip-flop . " <p> The former reporter in me sees merit in the criticisms , which I wrote about extensively for the Globe andtheAssociated Press . But the former diplomat in me remembers a tireless boss , caring father , and unyielding public servant . <p> Advertisement <p> On his second day as secretary of state , Kerry proposed an annual conference focused on preserving the world 's ocean system . From 2014 to 2016 , we staged three " Our Ocean " conferences . Collectively , they generated more than $9.2 billion to protect oceans worldwide and commitments to safeguard 3.8 million square miles of water . <p> Yet " Our Ocean " did n't end when Kerry left office . Instead , just like him , the conferences kept going . During the past 10 years , they 've generated $140 billion worth of ocean-preservation funding . <p> In myriad ways , Kerry overcame political humiliation to wage a noteworthy second act . And it 's more meaningful than the painting now hanging on a State Department wall . <p> Glen Johnson is a former Globe political reporter who served as deputy assistant secretary of state for Strategic Communications from 2013-2017 . He is author of " Window Seat on the World . " 
@@118698119 <p> Scarborough , 81 , announced last month that he 's leaving the anchor desk after more than 50 years Thursday ( Dec. 12 ) . <p> Now News 4 New York has named the anchor filling his spot . <p> David Ushery , another staple of New York broadcasting , is joining the 6 p.m. newscast . <p> He will co-anchor with Bergen County 's Natalie Pasquarella . She already co-anchors the 4 p.m. and 11 p.m. hours with Ushery , who has been at the news network for more than 20 years . <p> Scarborough casually dropped the news on Monday 's broadcast after Ushery introduced a segment paying tribute to the retiring anchor . <p> " Sharing a desk with you , Chuck , has been the privilege of my life , such an honor , " Pasquarella said . <p> " Well , the feeling 's mutual , " Scarborough said . " And I 'm leaving you in very good hands here with David . David is taking over at 6 . You know , David is a triple threat , you 've got to watch him : great writer , great reporter and fantastic anchor , so you 're in very good hands . " <p> Ushery , 57 , said there have been jokes about the transition behind the scenes . <p> " There 's been a lot of dark humor about me measuring the drapes in Chuck 's office , moving some furniture in , offer to drive him off the last day ... none of that is true , " he said . " Chuck , let me say this . You and I both walked into a newsroom today that was fully engaged on two major stories . Obviously the arrest in the CEO killing and the verdict in the subway chokehold ( trial ) . So our colleagues are supportive of this moment , but they were busy up in the newsroom and Chuck and I would n't have it any other way . " <p> " Chuck Scarborough walked into this building today the same way he walked in 50 years ago , " Ushery said . " And that is to say curious about the story , worried about the tone of the story , worried about the facts in the story , worried about the storytelling ... and that means you leave me and all of us the responsibility to keep doing that . " <p> Ushery grew up in Bloomfield , Connecticut and is an alum of the University of Connecticut . <p> He started working in broadcast journalism at at WFSB-TV in Hartford , but he 's been a TV host for much longer . <p> Chuck Scarborough , seen here with co-anchors Natalie Pasquarella and David Ushery during Monday night 's broadcast , leaves the anchor desk Thursday after more than 50 years at NBC.NBC 4 New York <p> When Ushery was just 11 years old , he became the host of the Connecticut-area syndicated show " Kidsworld , " where he interviewed broadcast legend Walter Cronkite . It was a gig Ushery held until he was 18 . <p> Ushery joined WABC-TV as a reporter and became an anchor , spending a decade there before joining WNBC in 2003 . <p> " In a time when the media industry is evolving on a near-daily basis , our responsibility as local journalists will never change : to verify the facts , to ask the tough questions and to deliver the news in a clear , honest and transparent manner worthy of our viewers trust , " Ushery said in a statement Monday . " That is exactly what we do at WNBC and for more than 20 years , I have been privileged to work alongside some of the finest journalists in our business right here at 30 Rock . I look forward to continuing this important mission every weeknight at 6 p.m. with my colleagues and friends Natalie Pasquarella , Janice Huff and Bruce Beck . " <p> He remained in the NBC 4 news studio during the early days of the COVID-19 pandemic , and accepted the Alfred I. duPont-Columbia University Award in 2021 , for the station 's coverage of the health crisis . <p> Ushery received two National Edward R. Murrow Awards for his coverage of Hurricane Sandy and coverage of the December 2019 shooting at the Jersey City kosher market . He also received a National Emmy for his work on Sandy . <p> In 2019 , he profiled 9/11 responder Michael Dorian , who was diagnosed with cancer and had to fight for his health benefits . The story won a New York Emmy . <p> Ushery 's work at NBC has taken him across the country and globe to places including Gaza , Jerusalem , the West Bank , France , England and Italy . Ushery has also moderated mayoral and gubernatorial debates . <p> After the murder of George Floyd , he examined the relationships between police and communities of color . Other major news events he 's covered include the Sandy Hook school shooting in 2012 and the " Miracle on the Hudson " landing of US Airways Flight 1549 in 2009 . <p> If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site , we may receive compensation . By using this site , you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks , interactions , and personal information may be collected , recorded , and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy . 
@@118699218 <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is set to testify in court on Tuesday , facing charges of bribery , fraud and breach of trust in three separate cases . <p> The trial has cast a shadow over Israel 's longest-serving prime minister as the war in Gaza grinds on . Netanyahu has repeatedly requested to delay his testimony because of the conflicts roiling the Middle East but was mostly denied by the courts . <p> The long-running trial comes as Netanyahu is already facing accusations by critics in Israel of dragging out the war in Gaza and putting off a ceasefire deal that could release some 100 hostages who remain in the territory after 14 months of war triggered by the Hamas attack on Oct. 7 , 2023 . <p> The Justice Ministry announced the indictments in the three cases in 2019 , after years of investigations . This is the first time that Netanyahu will testify in the trial , which began in May 2020 , though he has previously appeared in court . <p> The scandals have engulfed Netanyahu 's family and his inner circle , with at least three former close confidants testifying against him . The prime minister has denied any wrongdoing , casting the charges as a witch hunt by hostile media , police and prosecutors . <p> Netanyahu and his wife , Sara , have earned a reputation in Israel for enjoying an expensive lifestyle at the public 's expense . <p> He is expected to testify for weeks . However , a verdict is n't anticipated until 2026 . If convicted , Netanyahu could appeal and take the case to the Supreme Court , further prolonging a resolution . <p> Here 's a look at the three main cases concerning the prime minister : <h> Telecom Trade-off <p> The most damaging case against Netanyahu involves an influence-peddling scandal in which two former aides have testified against him on suspicions of promoting regulation worth hundreds of millions of dollars to Israel 's Bezeq telecom company . In return , Bezeq 's popular news site , Walla , allegedly provided favorable coverage of Netanyahu and his family . <p> Nir Hefetz , a former Netanyahu family spokesman , and Shlomo Filber , the former director of the Communications Ministry under Netanyahu , cut deals with prosecutors after they were arrested along with Bezeq 's controlling shareholder Shaul Elovitch , his wife , son and other top Bezeq executives . Former journalists at the Walla news site have attested to being pressured to refrain from negative reporting of Netanyahu . The charges here include bribery , fraud and breach of trust . <h> Lavish Gifts <p> In the second case , Netanyahu is accused of accepting nearly $200,000 in gifts from Hollywood producer Arnon Milchan and Australian billionaire James Packer . <p> Prosecutors say that in return for what has been dubbed a " supply line " of jewelry , expensive cigars and champagne , Netanyahu lobbied on Milchan 's behalf on U.S. visa matters , tried to legislate a generous tax break for him and sought to promote his interests in the Israeli media market . <p> The indictment says Packer , who reportedly sought Israeli residency status for tax purposes , also gave Netanyahu champagne and cigars . Netanyahu has said all he received were gifts from friends . Another former aide , Ari Harow , is a state witness in this case . The charges include fraud and breach of trust . <p> Stay informed on what is happening in Clark County , WA and beyond for only <h> Media Meddling <p> Netanyahu is also alleged to have offered a newspaper publisher legislation that would weaken his paper 's main rival in return for more favorable coverage . <p> Netanyahu reportedly was recorded asking Arnon Mozes , the publisher of the Yediot Ahronot daily , for positive coverage in exchange for helping to weaken Israel Hayom , a free pro-Netanyahu newspaper that had cut into Yediot 's business . <p> Israel Hayom is financed by Netanyahu 's late American billionaire friend Sheldon Adelson and largely serves as a mouthpiece for the prime minister . Netanyahu has noted that a proposed law to weaken Israel Hayom never passed and that he had even dissolved his coalition and called a new election in 2015 because of his opposition to the proposal . Harow is a state witness in this case , too . <p> According to TV reports based on leaked police investigations , Adelson 's wife also testified that Sara Netanyahu exerted pressure on her to provide gifts and favorable media coverage . The charges include fraud and breach of trust . <p> Morning Briefing Newsletter <p> Get a rundown of the latest local and regional news every Mon-Fri morning . <h> Support local journalism <p> Your tax-deductible donation to The Columbian 's Community Funded Journalism program will contribute to better local reporting on key issues , including homelessness , housing , transportation and the environment . Reporters will focus on narrative , investigative and data-driven storytelling . <p> Local journalism needs your help . It 's an essential part of a healthy community and a healthy democracy . 
@@118700602 <h> Opinion : Syrians also have Israel to thank for their liberation <p> AP Photo/Hassan Ammar / Syrians celebrate the fall of Syrian President Bashar Assad 's government in the town of Bar Elias , Lebanon , near the border with Syria , Sunday , Dec. 8 , 2024 . <p> Things could still go badly for Syria following the abrupt downfall of Bashar Assad on Saturday and the end of 54 years of ruinous Assad family rule . <p> The Islamist militia that led the revolt , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( Organization for the Liberation of the Levant ) , has old ties to al-Qaida and remains on the U.S. list of designated terrorist organizations , though its leader now disavows terrorism . The experience of post-revolutionary Arab states -- whether in Yemen , Libya , Tunisia or Egypt -- has not been a happy one . <p> Foreign powers , particularly Turkey , may seek to replace Iran 's former dominance in the country with their own . And Syria 's ethnic and sectarian divisions among Alawites , Sunnis , Kurds and Arabs could still prove explosive , with spillover effects in Jordan , Lebanon and other neighbors . <p> Yet this is also a moment of opportunity for a country that has mainly known dictatorship since it became independent in the 1940s . Political prisoners -- including one former pilot who spent 43 years in prison for refusing to bomb the regime 's domestic opponents -- are being freed . Millions of Syrians driven from their homes by 13 years of civil war and repression have a chance to return . <p> The country can also put an end to the quasi-occupation by the foreign military powers that propped up Assad 's rule : Lebanon 's Hezbollah , Iran 's Revolutionary Guard and the Russian military . The sight of Syrians ransacking Iran 's embassy in Damascus , Syria -- with portraits of Hezbollah 's Hassan Nasrallah and the Revolutionary Guard 's Qassem Soleimani torn to shreds -- is evidence of just what Syrians think of the " Axis of Resistance " led by Iran . <p> It 's a good thing that Syrians are the principal agents of their own liberation . But it 's no secret that Assad 's downfall was largely brought about because his allies no longer had the will or wherewithal to defend him . The Russian air force , whose planes smashed Aleppo , Syria , in 2016 , was too enfeebled by losses in Ukraine to do much in Syria . Hezbollah , decimated by Israel 's exploding pagers , airstrikes and ground incursions , could no longer provide Assad with the foot soldiers he once used to starve his people into submission . <p> As for Iran , Israel 's retaliatory strike in late October on key military facilities left it too weakened and exposed to save Assad . Iran is now rapidly withdrawing its once-considerable military presence in Syria . Cut off from this military supply chain , Hezbollah has never been in a more precarious position , giving the Lebanese people their own rare opportunity to bring this terrorist militia to heel and restore their sovereignty after decades of de facto Syrian and Iranian occupation . <p> Victory , as the saying goes , has a thousand fathers . But credit for Syria 's liberation from Assad must also be given for Israel 's courageous decisions to ignore calls for cease-fire and pursue its enemies -- whether in the Gaza Strip ; Beirut ; Hodeida , Yemen ; Damascus ; or Tehran , Iran . Each of these actions was denounced at the time for risking " escalation . " But victory over terrorists and tyrants has a way of paying dividends for the victorious and defeated alike . <p> Let 's hope the next leaders in Syria recognize the debt and finally seek peace , after 76 years of fruitless rejection , with their Jewish neighbor. 
@@118703105 <p> A Palestinian child walks with a bicycle by the rubble of a building after it was hit by an Israeli airstrike in Gaza City on Oct. 8 , 2023 . Credit : Fatima Shbair / AP <p> The BDN Opinion section operates independently and does not set news policies or contribute to reporting or editing articles elsewhere in the newspaper or on bangordailynews.com <p> Timothy Paradis is the communications director of Maine Voices For Palestinian Rights . He previously served on the foreign policy staff of Sen. Edward Kennedy , as a corporate business consultant , and as a manager with a variety of Maine-based not-for-profit organizations . <p> In her Dec. 3 column criticizing the Belfast City Council resolution to divest from Israeli companies complicit in the war , Sara Colb of the Anti-Defamation League of New England offers shopworn rationalizations that Israel 's supporters have been using for decades : Israel is an innocent victim targeted by people stepping out of their " lane " out of antisemitism and a desire to destroy the Jewish state . After watching Israel 's abuses and impunity , we reject these rationales . <p> Colb 's position , like that of the entire Israel First lobby , is that holding Israel to account for its violations of international law and human rights is somehow an affront to peace . It seems that she and the ADL do not believe Palestinians deserve the same rights to self-determination or safety as Jews . <p> Look at a map . Although Israeli Jews and indigenous Palestinians are roughly equal in number , Palestinian-controlled land is delineated today like a few scattered holes in a block of Swiss cheese . For almost a century , Israel , after wars and annexations , has expelled Palestinians from their lands , bulldozed their homes and illegally seized their property . <p> Colb dismisses these violations of the Geneva Conventions and the U.N . ' s Universal Declaration of Human Rights , as " certain actions of the Israeli government , " and bemoans protests against them . The protesters against Israel 's policies include Israel 's B'tselem human rights group , Amnesty International , Human Rights Watch and virtually all members of the United Nations . The charges go back years before the current genocide . <p> The Israeli military first occupied Gaza and the West Bank in 1967 , after the Six-Day War . This might explain why the boycott , sanctions and divestment movement began in the 2000s , decades before the current conflict . While presenting scant evidence that supporters of divestment oppose " Israel 's right to exist , " there 's ample evidence that Israel 's current leaders are determined to eliminate the Palestinians or force them into exile as stateless refugees . <p> Colb points to a rise in antisemitic incidents in the United States , but makes no mention of a similar rise in Islamophobia and attacks against Arab-Americans . Both should be condemned unequivocally . But I believe it is precisely the sense from Colb 's Anti-Defamation League that only Jewish lives and Jewish safety deserve priority that exacerbate " hate and isolation " ; this is what truly harms our communities . <p> The Belfast resolution matters . In the record of history , it will likely be asked who counseled silence and abetted genocide , and who spoke out in defense of justice and humanity . The residents of Belfast can proudly say they spoke for humanity . 
@@118710000 <p> Neither the Red Cross nor doctors came to the aid of Noa Argamani when she had been wounded in captivity , the former hostage said at an emergency discussion regarding the hostages ' medical conditions , called by President Isaac Herzog on Tuesday for International Human Rights Day . <p> Almost immediately after the October 7 massacre , medical professionals dealing with mental as well as physical health issues began to worry about the effects of captivity on the hostages who had been taken to Gaza . <p> While the victims of October 7 were being treated first by paramedics and then in hospitals for their wounds , it was not as easy to immediately diagnose their mental conditions . <p> Those who had fought against Hamas while witnessing the cruelest and most brutal atrocities perpetrated against their loved ones , friends , and neighbors have suffered various forms of trauma that are not always obvious but , if untreated , can become lifelong torture . <p> Herzog , at his many meetings with returned hostages , families of hostages , people involved in rescue operations , physicians , negotiators , and others , thought that the whole subject should be discussed from the different perspectives of the people involved and chose to bring them together at the President 's Residence.President Isaac Herzog attends an emergency conference on the medical condition of Israeli hostages in Jerusalem , December 10 , 2024 ( credit : OREN BEN HAKOON/FLASH90 ) <p> Argamani 's remarks came as she showed the audience a video published in January in which she appeared in captivity . <p> " An Air Force missile hit a building , " in which she said she was present along with Yossi Sharabi and Itai Svirsky . <p> " As you know , Yossi did not survive . Two days later , Itai Svirsky was murdered , and just this week , his body was returned to Israel , " Argamani said . <p> " I was left injured -- I was left wounded , as you can see in the full video , " she added , noting she had been left " bleeding , with my entire head open , and no one came to help me . Not the Red Cross , not doctors , no one . " <p> Upon returning to Israel , she said the doctors who saw her wounds said the fact that she was alive " was a medical miracle . " <p> " I do n't know how many hostages are still there who suffered similar situations to mine , " she further stated , asserting , " We do n't know the condition of the 100 hostages still there , and their fate might be worse than mine . " <p> Argamani was taken hostage and was held in the Gaza Strip along with Sharabi and Svirsky.Svirsky was taken captive on October 7 from Kibbutz Be'eri . The IDF 's position is that he was murdered by Hamas . Last week , his body was recovered from the Gaza Strip in a joint IDF and Shin Bet ( Israel Security Agency ) operation . <p> In February , the IDF published the results of a probe it conducted regarding Sharabi 's death , concluding that the Israel Air Force attack on Hamas in central Gaza may have accidentally also killed him . <p> Argamani was rescued on June 8 during an operation in Nuseirat in Gaza , along with Almog Meir Jan , Andrey Kozlov , and Shlomi Ziv . <p> The operation was later named " Operation Arnon " after Ch. -Insp . Arnon Zamora , the single Israeli casualty during the operation . <p> THE DISCUSSION at the President 's Residence was dominated by physicians from different medical disciplines and different fields of practice . But they did n't live up to the traditional belief of two Jews , three opinions . <p> They were in total agreement with each other over the urgency of bringing the hostages home immediately because it was unlikely that they could last another winter , especially taking into account their malnutrition , isolation , and the humiliation and abuse they suffered . And , of course , the bitter cold . <p> Public health physician Dr. Hagai Levine said that extreme weight loss was a severe problem in that it pointed to a weakened immune system , loss of energy , and sleep irregularities . <p> " Every section of the body is affected , " he said , underscoring that up to 50% of the body suffers weight loss and that this , in turn , can affect the brain . Both he and other doctors spoke of what lack of medication and water can do to people who are chronically ill and voiced fears that all people in this category are in danger of death . <h> ' The body can not withstand such long deprivation ' <p> " The body can not withstand such long deprivation , " said Dr. Amir Bloumenfeld , which is why the immediate return home of the hostages is imperative . Those who were released just over a year ago returned with a lot of mental problems , he said , and their rehabilitation period has been a very long process . " Some children are afraid to speak . " <p> One of the therapies used to help returned hostages or people who survived the massacre is dancing . The music helps to reduce tensions and inhibitions . <p> Dr. Oren Aran , a family doctor from the Gaza border communities , said that communities in the area have been negatively impacted , and there is a 20% increase in the need for medicines and also a sharp rise in alcohol consumption and cigarette smoking . Many people , including children , are depressed , and a lot of children are afraid to sleep alone and so sleep with their parents . <p> In addition , chronic illnesses are getting worse . <p> Although political issues were less evident than they usually are in discussions about the hostages , they were not ignored . <p> For more than a year now , Herzog has been calling for the hostages to be brought home . Due to his position , he can not openly criticize the government , but based on the number of hostage-related events that he has hosted or attended and the fact that he consistently calls for their return , there is little doubt that he , too , would like to see the government do more . 
@@118710001 <h> Netanyahu 's trial risks diverting attention from these pressing matters , as evidenced by recent courtroom tensions and legal wrangling that have dominated headlines . <p> Perhaps the most polarizing legal saga in Israeli history will take its most dramatic turn today when Defendant No. 1 -- Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu -- takes to the stand to begin defending himself in his criminal trial . <p> The drama of the first sitting prime minister to testify in a public corruption trial -- seven years after the investigations started -- is guaranteed to take over the country 's narrative for the foreseeable future . <p> Defending against allegations of bribery , fraud , and breach of trust , and after years of delays and setbacks -- including Sunday when ministers attempted to push back Bibi 's testimony date due to events in Syria -- the testimony of Netanyahu is not merely a legal formality ; it is a moral necessity , a gesture of accountability , and a demonstration of respect for the very rule of law that forms the bedrock of Israeli democracy . <p> Almost five years on since he was first indicted , the prime minister 's ongoing legal proceedings have cast a shadow over Israel 's governance , while at the same time illuminating our country 's democratic resilience . Few democracies can claim the ability to hold a sitting or former leader to such stringent judicial scrutiny . <p> This trial is both a stain and a badge of honor -- stark evidence of internal discord but also a testament to a judiciary willing to hold power accountable -- a pillar of Israeli society that has been held sacred since the state 's earliest days . PRIME MINISTER Benjamin Netanyahu arrives at the Jerusalem District Court to hear testimony of businessman Arnon Milchan in the Case 1000 corruption trial , this week . ( credit : MARC ISRAEL SELLEM/THE JERUSALEM POST ) <p> Netanyahu 's testimony should give every citizen trust in Israel 's institutions , proving that no one , not even the nation 's longest-serving prime minister , is above the law . <p> Despite the constant cries of " witch-hunt " every time an accusation is made against any of the ruling coalition , especially the prime minister , Israeli democracy thrives on its robust judicial framework . While not perfect , it is a system that protects against tyranny and enforces accountability -- and one that the government , we should not forget , attempted to overhaul , almost dragging the country into civil unrest before the Hamas attacks of October 7 . <h> Timing of the treial <p> Critics may argue that the trial 's timing , coinciding with Israel 's engagement in a multi-front war against Hamas and Hezbollah , as well as regional upheaval , is inappropriate . However , pausing the judicial process would undermine the judiciary 's role as an impartial arbiter of justice . Instead , the country must find a balance -- ensuring the trial proceeds fairly while prioritizing the governance and security needs of a nation at war . <p> While it is imperative that justice be carried out in the name of the law -- and the two days Bibi will take the stand should not tear him away from Israel 's security needs for too long -- Israelis have far more pressing needs than the daily political soap opera which exists in this country . <p> Israel has been on the frontlines of existential challenges as it battles Hamas , Hezbollah , and other Iranian proxies , all while monitoring developments in Syria following the sudden fall of the Assad regime . This precarious geopolitical environment of the Middle East demands an unwavering focus from the nation 's leadership . <p> Netanyahu 's trial risks diverting attention from these pressing matters , as evidenced by recent courtroom tensions and legal wrangling that have dominated headlines . Israel is still a country in trauma . We are still awaiting the return of 100 hostages held by Hamas . We are still battling the brutal terrorist group daily in Gaza and securing our northern border with Lebanon to allow citizens to finally return home . <p> A resolution of the case is crucial to prevent further erosion of public trust . For Netanyahu , testifying could be his decisive moment to address allegations directly , dispel doubts , and prioritize national stability over personal legal battles -- and nobody knows how to take the stage better than Bibi . Israel 's enemies are watching closely , as they were in the months preceding October 7 , and any perception of internal disarray could embolden those who seek to exploit it . <p> For decades , Netanyahu has positioned himself as the guarantor of Israel 's security and prosperity . Now , he must embody the same leadership qualities by transparently confronting the allegations against him . Testifying will not only allow him to present his version of events but also demonstrate a commitment to the democratic values he claims to uphold . 
@@118710002 <h> Grapevine December 11 , 2024 : Dereliction of duty Down Under <h> Movers and shakers in Israeli society . <p> As someone born and raised in Australia , it is impossible for this columnist to ignore the unprecedented rise of antisemitism since October 7 , 2023 , in her hometown of Melbourne . <p> The firebombing that destroyed part of the ultra-Orthodox Adass Israel synagogue , along with five Torah scrolls , drew sharp condemnation from Prime Minister Anthony Albanese , but at the same time was condemned by Jewish community leaders who complained of the inadequate clampdown on antisemitism by Albanese 's government . <p> The synagogue was built by Holocaust survivors from Hungary . <p> The attack and the damage have served to strengthen solidarity between all sectors of Melbourne 's Jewish community . <p> Prior to the government 's announcement that it is establishing a task force to combat antisemitism . Josh Frydenberg , the chairman of Goldman Sachs Australia and New Zealand , a former treasurer of Australia who before that held ministerial portfolios in resources , environment , and energy wrote a sharp letter to the prime minister , which reads as follows : Members of the local Jewish community look at the damage of the arson attack at the Adass Israel Synagogue on December 06 , 2024 in Melbourne , Australia . ( credit : Asanka Ratnayake/Getty Images ) <h> Letter to Australian PM <p> " The firebombing of the Adass synagogue in Melbourne is an absolute outrage , the latest in a long list of dangerous antisemitic attacks that have occurred on your watch . <p> " Social cohesion has broken down . The Jewish community is living in fear . Antisemitism has been normalized . <p> " So toxic has our environment become , one of our most distinguished Australians , former governor-general Sir Peter Cosgrove , has felt the need to say ' Hitler would be proud . ' <p> " Prime Minister , what will it take for the penny to drop ? For you and your ministers to step up , not step back from the challenges we face ? To do your job , enforcing the law , leading from the front and not merely mouthing worthless words that mean nothing and lead to nothing ? <p> " Your government 's inaction has emboldened those that hate and those that harm . It is clear to all those who want to see . <p> " This week hundreds of people were locked down in Sydney 's Great Synagogue , including your former colleague , Indigenous champion , Olympic champion Nova Peris , as pro-Palestinian protesters made it unsafe to leave . <p> " The week before in Woollahra , cars were torched , property defaced with antisemitic messages of hate . <p> " Days before that crowds openly called to globalize the intifada , called Jews Nazis , as they freely waved the flags of Hezbollah , a listed terrorist organization . <p> " And on and on it goes . <p> " On a daily basis Jewish Australians are intimidated and harassed , in our streets , on our campuses , and in their workplaces . <p> " Jewish artists are doxed and canceled . Jewish-owned businesses are boycotted and attacked . <p> " Young Jews are now fearful to publicly identify with their faith , while Holocaust survivors , long given a safe refuge and warm embrace here in Australia , now talk openly about leaving this country . <p> " Prime Minister , how have you let it get to this ? <p> " Responsibility rests at your door . Our community , which has contributed so much to our country , now feels alone and vulnerable . <p> " If our prime minister does not and will not answer the call to action , what hope do the rest of us have of effecting real change ? <p> " Let me be clear , this is not about Israel , although your government 's abandonment of a fellow democracy whose security and intelligence cooperation has saved Australian lives has been all too clear . <p> " This is about Australia , the country we want to be and not what we have become . <p> " We are at a pivotal moment in our history . Our treasured values of tolerance , respect , and the freedom to live freely and proudly practice one 's faith and traditions has been undermined , leaving us all less safe as a result . <p> " Once social cohesion has broken down , it is only a matter of time before another community is next . <p> " This is why the attack on Adass was not an attack on one , it was an attack on all . <p> " All Australians are paying the price , as our leaders have gone missing . <p> " Please , Prime Minister , see what is happening , understand what is happening , and act . <p> " To do otherwise is a dereliction of duty . " <p> ? BUT THERE 'S also a reason for Melbourne 's Jewish community to rejoice . This week , the executive committee of the Mount Scopus Foundation , whose members are mostly alumni of Mount Scopus Memorial College , a Jewish day school founded in the same year as the State of Israel , hosted a gala dinner to mark the unveiling of a project that will enable the creation of a consolidated school campus combined with a state-of-the-art community hub . <p> In addition to bringing together the three campuses of the college , it will also enrich the community with new opportunities for facilities , cultural programs , and more contacts within the Jewish community . <p> Headed by David Gold , Mark Joel , and Tali Borowski , and including the college principal , Dan Sztrajt , who is also an alumnus , the foundation 's committee acquired land in the heart of Jewish Melbourne . <p> When the college initially opened , it was within walking distance of midtown Melbourne . Then , it moved out to Burwood , an outlying suburb , which at the time was far from Jewish residential , communal , and commercial areas . The college grew considerably over the years , necessitating additional campuses . <p> Now , in an era in which Jewish solidarity is imperative , all three campuses will be located together in the suburb of Caulfield , in which there are other Jewish schools and institutions , as there are in all the neighborhoods adjacent to Caulfield , and the college will offer opportunities for adult cultural events . <p> Geographically far from the rest of the Jewish world , Australia is not lacking in Jewish life , which flourishes in the full richness of its diversity . <p> ? FOR YEARS people living in close proximity to Sde Dov Airport in Tel Aviv complained about the noise made by low-flying planes . Opened in 1938 , and named after Dov Hoz , one of the pioneers of Israeli aviation , the airfield was located in the midst of a residential area . After much controversy , it finally ceased operations on June 30 , 2019 , and the land was rezoned for high-rise luxury residential towers . Commercial flights were transferred to Ben-Gurion Airport . <p> The residential project , known as Ashira , is being built by the Avisror Group . The presenter of the project is popular actor Yehuda Levi , who has purchased a mini penthouse in the project , and who participated in laying the cornerstone . Also present at the ceremony were senior representatives of the Tel Aviv Municipality , architects , interior designers , and future residents . <p> ? OVER THE past year , many business enterprises have either downsized or closed down completely . But some are expanding , such as the recently opened Deli Vino wine bar in Tel Aviv , whose owner , Vladimir Dyachenko , announced at the opening that he intended for the Deli Vino brand to become the largest wine and delicatessen chain in the country . <p> Among well-known connoisseurs of both food and wine who attended the opening of the new store were lawyer Sassy Gez , broadcaster Merav Miller , Yosi Biton , a partner in KPMG , and many other prominent business figures , as well as people from the food and hospitality industries . <p> Guests were treated to the most sophisticated wines and other alcoholic beverages from the best wineries and distilleries in the world , all of which are in stock at Deli Vino branches in Netanya and Tel Aviv . <p> It 's quite a usual practice these days to have printed photos of the guests on magnets awaiting them on a table as they exit an event . But the people at Deli Vino went one better and printed portraits of the guests on the labels of wine bottles . <p> The Netanya link in the chain , which is the company 's flagship store , is doing well , and the plan now is to launch a series of workshops and tastings for wine lovers . CALEV BEN-DAVID saying farewell to i24. ( credit : CALEV BEN-DAVID ) <h> Broadcast shakeups <p> ? VETERAN JOURNALIST Calev Ben-David , who for the past eight years has been a news and current affairs program anchor at i24 , bid viewers a graceful and gentlemanly farewell last week . <p> Early in his career in Israel , Ben-David worked for The Jerusalem Post , rising to the position of managing editor . He was later the founding director of the Jerusalem office of The Israel Project , a US-based advocacy group that took journalists , political figures , and others on tours of Israel for the purpose of seeing many facets of the country for themselves and forming opinions on the basis of what they saw and the people they met . Ben-David was also the political correspondent for the now defunct IBA News and later the Israel bureau chief for Bloomberg . <p> At i24 , he was the presenter of The Rundown and Jewish World Weekly , and as popular for his broad New York twang as for the content of the programs . <p> At his farewell appearance last week , he said : " Unfortunately , I have to report that I will no longer be appearing on i24NEWS as anchor of its nightly news show , The Rundown , or the host of Jewish World Weekly , a program I proudly created . <p> " After eight years at the channel , I depart with sadness , but no regret . Quite the opposite ; I am grateful to have contributed to the effort , especially in the months following Oct. 7 , to demonstrate the importance , the necessity , of having an English-language channel , one which certainly focuses on news from an Israeli perspective but still adheres to the journalistic principles of fact-based reporting , allows for a multiplicity of views across the Israeli political spectrum , and , at least from my anchor 's chair , tries to present the story in the broadest possible context , and allow guests to freely express their opinions instead of forcing my own on them and the viewers . <p> " I thank all my colleagues past and present at i24NEWS for their support and patience over the years . Next month I can mark having spent four decades as a journalist in Israel , and 40 years has a special meaning in Jewish tradition , marking the end of one journey , and beginning of a new chapter . Whether that will be a continuation in the journalistic field or something else , I ca n't say , but if not , my time at i24NEWS , especially over the past 14 months , will mark a fitting capstone to that long career . " <p> Given his experience and his broad range of knowledge ( including an encyclopedic familiarity with the motion picture industry ) , Ben-David is bound to be snapped up by some English-language news outlet . It will benefit whoever gets him . <p> Ben-David , who has worked both in advocacy and journalism , says that advocacy is not a substitute for journalism . His own approach to journalism has been fairness , objectivity in context , and historical accuracy . <p> ? BEN-DAVID was not the only one making his farewells last week . In the diplomatic realm , Indian Ambassador Sanjeev Singla , his country 's longest-serving ambassador to Israel , held a farewell party at the Dan Hotel in Tel Aviv before taking up his next posting , in France . " I 'm not complaining , " he said with a smile . Before heading for Paris , he will spend three weeks in Delhi with his family . <p> Although there have been some political upheavals in France , his time there will be somewhat calmer than the five plus years he spent in Israel -- a period that he described in a diplomatic understatement as " eventful . " <p> ? SINGLA IS one of three ambassadors who set new records of longevity as representatives of their respective countries in Israel . Another is Thai Ambassador Pannabha Chandraramya , who will have served just over five years when she concludes her posting in February , and a third is Russian Ambassador Anatoly Viktorov , who was among the many diplomats who came to wish Singla well . <p> Viktorov , who turns 61 next month , has been in Israel since April 2018 , and has no idea how much longer he will be at his current post . " There are no limits in my country , " he said . That goes for both the time spent in any one place , or the age at which an ambassador must retire . That particular leeway is one of the residues of the Communist regime . <p> One of Soviet Russia 's most famous diplomats was Anatoly Dobrynin who served as ambassador to the United States from 1962 to 1986 , was dean of the diplomatic corps , and is credited with normalizing Soviet-US relations . <p> Dobrynin , who died in Moscow in April 2010 , served in the US during the administrations of six American presidents : John Kennedy , Lyndon Johnson , Richard Nixon , Gerald Ford , Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan . <p> Viktorov has served during the administrations of three Israeli prime ministers . Benjamin Netanyahu was prime minister when Viktorov arrived . Then came prime ministers Naftali Bennett and Yair Lapid , before Netanyahu was back in office . There have also been two presidents during that period -- Reuven Rivlin , to whom Viktorov presented his credentials , and current incumbent Isaac Herzog . <p> When it was suggested that he might stay in Israel till he 's 100 , Viktorov showed that he was indeed acclimatized to the country . " Till 120 , " he responded . <p> Although Singla served a year less than Viktorov , it was no less a memorable period . He was in Israel to witness that jubilation in 2020 following the signing of the Abraham Accords . He was later able to socialize with the heads of the diplomatic missions of the United Arab Emirates , Bahrain , and Morocco , who at the time that he took up his post were unlikely to ever serve in Israel . He heard the anti-government and anti-judicial reform protest rallies , and he saw the demonstrations calling for the release of the hostages , following the Hamas massacre and kidnappings , and that was n't all . <p> Singla said that he felt immensely privileged to have served in Israel , adding that he will always remember the human landscape , the friendship of the Indian Jewish community , and the support he received in many quarters , particularly from the team at the Indian Embassy.Explaining his close connections with Israel 's Indian community , Singla said : " As diplomats , we are birds of passage , and connect with our tribes wherever we find ourselves . " <p> ? IT 'S IRONIC that Asma Fawaz al-Assad , the wife of deposed Syrian president Bashar al-Assad , who with three grown children fled to Russia before her husband , has to find sanctuary there instead of in the UK , where she was born and raised . Now persona non grata in the land of her birth , Asma , who was the most influential female in Syria , now has to rely on the goodwill of Russian President Vladimir Putin . <p> Asma 's is not a Cinderella story like that of Eva Peron , the wife of Juan Peron , who was president of Argentina . The daughter of Syrian expatriates -- a father who was a successful cardiologist , and a mother who was a diplomat , Asma grew up in an upper-middle-class environment and , prior to her marriage , worked in investment banking . <p> In Syria , she was a very influential figure in economic and government circles , and , in sharp contrast to the values of her upbringing and education , supported the murderous , tyrannical policies of her husband . <p> From an Israeli perspective , there is something symbolic in the fact that the Assad regime came to an end in the week of the 100th anniversary of the birth of super spy Eli Cohen , who was executed and buried in Syria . If the new powers that be prove to be as democratic as they claim , his remains may finally be returned to Israel and his family , and he will have a proper Jewish funeral . <p> ? TO MARK the 44th anniversary of the death of Beatles founder and co-lead singer John Lennon , who was murdered in New York on December 8 , 1980 , Israel Radio played a clip of a recording of Lennon , his wife Yoko Ono , and former MK Akiva Nof singing a song about Jerusalem in Hebrew . <p> Lennon and Ono were on a peace tour and were traveling around to protest the Vietnamese War . Nof was a reporter for Israel Radio . He was also a poet , songwriter , and composer . In New York , he went to the Hilton Hotel , where Lennon and Ono were staying as part of their bed-in protest , and persuaded them to sing a Hebrew song about Jerusalem , which Nof had written and taught to Lennon at a previous meeting in Amsterdam . Then the three of them sat on the couple 's double bed and sang it . Nof recorded the event , and it was taken out of the Israel Radio archives this week . <p> Nof , who is also a lawyer , celebrated his 88th birthday on December 2 . Yoko Ono is 91 . Lennon was born 84 years ago , and despite the fact that more than four decades have passed since his death , his popularity has not faded . <p> ? THE FORUM of Wives of the Wounded has called on the public to mark the 17th of Kislev , which corresponds with December 18 , as a special day honoring wounded soldiers and victims of terrorism . <p> The forum , which is supported by MK Michal Woldiger , was established almost immediately after the Hamas massacre of October 7 , 2023 . <p> Wives of security personnel who were wounded when defending the areas under attack from Gaza , banded together in order to help each other cope with the new challenges confronting the families of the wounded . Whether the wounded are physically or mentally affected , or both , it places a strain on their families , in that some of the wounded are unable to perform simple tasks for themselves , and family members have to learn new skills in order to be able to look after them . <p> The forum wants to create greater awareness of what the wounded and their families are experiencing , and simultaneously wants greater recognition of the heroism of the wounded , many of whom have made sacrifices that have cost them limbs , hearing , and eyesight . Others suffer psychological traumas which may last a lifetime . <p> As the nation gradually returns to a normal lifestyle , the forum urges individuals not to forget the human costs in reaching that point . <p> For further information email neshothaptzuim@gmail.com <p> ? LOVERS OF klezmer music may be interested in attending a concert on December 22 at the Felicja Blumental Music Center , 26 Bialik Street , Tel Aviv , by the Duo Minerva , which was recently awarded the title of New Austrian Sound of Music for 2025-2026 . <p> Now traveling the world as cultural ambassadors , the Duo Minerva , comprising clarinetist Johanna Gossner from Tyrol and accordionist Damian Keller from Vorarlberg , will give a onetime-only recital in Israel . The concert is not limited to klezmer alone , but includes other Jewish music , some with new arrangements . <p> The duo has won various prizes , and is included in the performers who are under the sponsorship of the renowned Club Klassik -- Vienna Music Society . The concert in Tel Aviv is under the auspices of the Austrian Cultural Forum and Spectacular World of Jewish Music . Tickets are NIS 70 , and can be purchased at GoShow.co.il or by telephoning *6119 . <p> ? JUDICIAL REFORM is not a new concept in Israel . Part of Israel 's legal system is an offshoot of the British legal system which was in force during the period of the British Mandate prior to the establishment of the state . But in 1948 , in the first year of the state 's existence , David Ben-Gurion wrote : " We do not yet have a jury system . I hope that one day it will be part of our legal constitution , as in England and the US . It should be the average person with common sense who will judge us . " <p> This year , for the first time since its establishment in 1974 under the Ben-Gurion law , the Ben-Gurion Heritage Institute was among the recipients of the Ben-Gurion award , presented annually by Ben-Gurion University of the Negev . The Institute is dedicated to preserving and promoting Ben-Gurion 's legacy , his pioneering values , his leadership vision , and his belief in the enrichment of cultural and civic dialogue . <p> The Ben-Gurion Award ceremony is held annually on Ben-Gurion Day , which is on the anniversary of his death , the Jewish calendar date of which was this week . Ben-Gurion died on December 1 , 1973 , at the age of 87 . <p> His big dream was to make the desert bloom . He would be pleased to see the difference between what the Negev looks like today and how it looked when he settled there in his declining years . <p> On receiving the award from BGU President Daniel Chamovitz , Eitan Donitz , who heads the Ben-Gurion Heritage Institute , said : " This is a very meaningful moment for the institute and its dedicated , unending work in disseminating the legacy of the old man . Ben-Gurion was referred to as the old man even before he entered the third age . Receiving the award is a reflection of our obligation to continue to disseminate his heritage . It is both a natural and an urgent thing to do so , in order to influence Israeli society . " <p> Donitz added that the institute functions out of a sense of mission , with a message for Israelis of all ages , including children . 
@@118710011 <p> His trial is a " chance to refute these ridiculous charges " against him , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu told the Jerusalem District Court as he became the first sitting prime minister in Israeli history to testify in a public corruption trial on Tuesday . <p> " I waited eight years for this , " he said , " to say the truth as I remember . " He called the charges " an ocean of absurdity . " <p> Netanyahu criticized the timing of the trial while Israel is at war : " I am the prime minister , and I am managing a country and the IDF during a war . " He said that he " thought the court could have balanced his time better than making him testify three times per week . " <p> He also referenced that , while he hoped to be able to run the country and testify in tandem , the events in Syria had shifted the balance in the region . <p> " A few days ago , a tectonic event happened that has n't happened in 100 years since Sykes-Picot , " referring to the 1916 agreement that divided the Ottoman provinces into areas of British and French control . Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu at the Tel Aviv District Court during his testimony in the trial against him , December 10 , 2024 ( credit : FLASH90/CHAIM GOLDBERG ) <p> " I never believed volunteering to serve this country would lead to this , " he said . <p> Netanyahu also claimed that if he had followed the " leftist " way , he would not be on trial : " They told me ' make a Palestinian state and give them half of Jerusalem . ' Because I rejected this , the media hated me . If I accepted two states and ignored the threat of Iran and went a few steps left , I would have been applauded . " <p> He reiterated the need for Israel to be strong militarily and economically , and spoke of his own desire to withstand global and domestic pressure . <p> " I make contact with families of the Israeli hostages , not to score political points , but because of true commitment to my country , " he continued . <p> He stressed that his return to politics at the age of 50 was not for fraudulent reasons or to get benefits , but to help his country more , adding that this decision caused suffering to his wife . <p> Case 1000 is where everything began , and it may be where Netanyahu is in most danger of a conviction , even if the charges are less sensational . Netanyahu was charged with accepting over $100,000 in gifts from Arnon Milchan and James Parker in return for regulatory policies that benefited them . <p> Referencing the charges of bribery via cigars and champagne from Case 1000 , the prime minister said he " never gets to consistently smoke his cigars . " <p> " I am always interrupted . By the way , I hate champagne . " <p> He said claims that he received illegal gifts were " complete lies . " <p> Speaking about his schedule , he said he smokes some but does n't eat " super fancy " food and does eat at work . He said he works all around the clock , often until two in the morning , and never sees his kids , calling it " a big price to pay . " Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu at the Tel Aviv District Court during his testimony in the trial against him , December 10 , 2024 ( credit : FLASH90/CHAIM GOLDBERG ) <h> Foreign relations <p> Netanyahu claimed he had to freeze building infrastructure " for almost a year to deal with then-president Barack Obama , " though " eventually I was able to double the size of Jewish West Bank settlements . " <p> He added that Obama 's view that there should be no Israeli building near Palestinians " went directly against the ideas which I believed in . " <p> He also criticized the way in which Obama saw Iran as an " opportunity " and the former president 's attempts to make a nuclear deal with the regime.Netanyahu also told a story of former US Secretary of State John Kerry telling him to use America 's policy on Afghanistan as a model for how to handle challenges in Israel , to which he replied he did n't know when , but he knew that Washington 's Afghan policy would fail . <h> The media <p> He said the media fails to represent all sectors of the public , and is left-leaning . This creates a " massive dissonance between left-wing media and regular Israelis . " <p> The prime minister added that the current media acts as if an Iranian nuclear deal is a good thing , and that if Gaza and Lebanon were to be left alone , " all will be fine . " <p> Netanyahu continued by saying that when the world only hears left-wing media and that we are committing war crimes , global media thinks this represents the majority of Israelis . <p> He also claimed that Israeli media is helping to cement and fuel The Hague 's ICC war crime accusations against Israel . <p> Overall , Netanyahu said he felt there needed to be more diversity of views in Israeli media , and better " manners . " On Monday night , the prime minister held a heated press conference with the press , which he alluded to in his testimony . " Reporters do n't come to listen to answers , " he said , " just to cut you off . " He added that wanting support for his policies in the media was not for personal gain , but because he wanted to more effectively deliver his message . <p> He recommended bringing in new investors to diversify media platforms and stressed the importance of Channel 14 for maintaining balanced views . <p> Netanyahu testified on Tuesday , " The criminalization of relations between politicians and the media is dangerous to Israeli democracy , " adding that the fathers of democracy were Americans Alexander Hamilton and Thomas Jefferson , each of whom made their own newspapers to attack each other and also picked their own editors . <p> He asked rhetorically , " Do we think they were corrupt ? They were great men with great values who we learn from . " <p> Netanyahu was arguing that the prosecution going after him and his lieutenants for trying to intervene in the appointments of various editors at Walla , such as Tali Ben Ovadiah , would be tantamount to declaring that Hamilton and Jefferson perpetrated media bribery when they tried to create favorable media outlets for themselves . <p> Just as Netanyahu believes most people would reject declaring such luminaries of democracy as corrupt , he hopes the court will view his or his lieutenant 's interventions with editor appointments at Walla as something that can not be corrupt . <h> Elovitch and media bribery <p> Addressing the prosecution 's claims in Case 4000 , where the prime minister is accused of helping Shaul Elovitch 's Bezeq in return for good coverage from Elovitch 's Walla , Netanyahu testified that he did not know Elovitch very well before or even in 2012 and that he had approved regulatory policies which seemed to show he was pro-reforms . <p> The indictment said that Elovitch and Netanyahu hatched the beginning of the media bribery scheme during a four person dinner with their wives on December 27 , 2012 . <p> Netanyahu said that he did not meet with Elovitch any more frequently than he did with former chief justice Aharon Barak , who is now thought of as a major rival . Adding in Barak was to contextualize Elovitch as not a close ally , and certainly not someone he would scheme with . <p> Next , the defense and Netanyahu presented a regulatory memorandum , which the prime minister signed off on when he stood in as communications minister . <p> The memoranda were in favor of Elovitch , but occurred two-and-a-half years before the alleged scheme was hatched , at a time when Netanyahu was not seen as close to Elovitch . <p> The prime minister said that the police declined to show him these memoranda . <p> Judge Moshe Baram seemed highly surprised that the memoranda had not been produced in the case previously , but Netanyahu 's defense lawyer Amit Hadad said that his three -person team of defense lawyers only found it recently , noting that the prosecution has over 20 lawyers and " could conquer a small village . " <p> Baram said the memoranda were very relevant . <h> Defense lawyer <p> Netanyahu 's defense lawyer Amit Hadad told the Jerusalem District Court that the police approach against the prime minister was similar to that of Russian dictator Joseph Stalin , who told his underlings to create crimes to prosecute his opposition figures if they could not find existing crimes . <p> Netanyahu is the first sitting prime minister to testify in his own public corruption trial , in a drama that is expected to take over the country 's narrative for the next month , or several months , sidelining what the master messenger wants the national story to be . <p> The defense lawyer told the Jerusalem District Court that this case started five years ago when the prosecution said there was a connection between the three cases . <p> " This never happened . Nothing that the prosecution mentioned in its opening has been proven -- despite the complete collapse in parts of the indictment , " especially with state 's witness Shlomo Filber and " despite the court 's suggestion to the prosecution to drop the bribery charge in Case 4000 ... we are proud to present Netanyahu 's truth and narrative , " he said . <p> Netanyahu 's lawyer added that the defense has found more and more holes in the prosecution 's case to show the court . <p> He stated that this shows how lost the prosecution and police were and the absence of limits of the police in pressuring witnesses . <p> Next , Hadad said that former attorney-general Avichai Mandelblit filed the indictment against Netanyahu on the day that the prime minister met with then-president Donald Trump in 2020 . <p> It is worth noting that the prosecution had wanted to file the case months before , but Netanyahu had delayed this with procedural motions regarding alleged immunity . <p> The defense opened its case around four-and-a-half years after the prosecution opened its case and seven years after the investigations started , with many observers critical that the court has not moved the case along faster to quickly end this divisive episode in the country 's history . <p> The return of his public corruption trial , after essentially a recess since the summer to give Netanyahu and his lawyers more time to prepare , includes Cases 1000 , 2000 and 4000 . <p> Following Hadad presenting Netanyahu 's narrative of the cases involved , the prime minister will be cross-examined by a variety of different prosecution lawyers . <p> Although the prosecution has not said yet who will handle the cross-examination , the lead lawyer for all cases has been Deputy State Attorney Liat Ben Ari ; the lead lawyer for the largest case , Case 4000 , has been Yehudit Tirosh ; and the lead lawyer for Cases 1000 and 2000 has been Alon Gildin . <p> Jerusalem District Court President Judge Rivkah Friedman Feldman -- who convicted former prime minister Ehud Olmert of corruption around a decade ago -- rejected several Netanyahu postponement requests as well as requests from members of his government , after granting his initial request to delay from the summer until December 2 due to the war . <p> In late November , Friedman Feldman finally gave the prime minister a one-week reprieve , bringing the trial up to Tuesday 's main event , but that week did not really give Netanyahu any relief . <p> Judges Moshe Baram and Oded Shaham have also presided over the trial along with Friedman-Feldman . <p> The highlights of the prosecution case from a legal perspective have been the testimony of former Walla CEO Ilan Yeshua ; the text messages between Yeshua and former Bezeq and Walla owner Shaul Elovitch ; a string of former Walla reporters ; former top aides to Netanyahu Nir Hefetz , Shlomo Filber , and Ari Harow ; former communications ministry officials , such as former director-general Avi Berger , Hadas Klein , and Arnon Milchin ; text messages from former Netanyahu aide Zev Rubinstein ; former Netanyahu aide and cousin David Shimron ; and a variety of police interrogators , most notably Yoav Telem and Eli Asiag . <p> Some other political highlights in the case -- the drama of which has grabbed the country 's attention now and then , even if their impact on the legal outcome was more minor -- included testimony from no less than former prime minister Yair Lapid , former foreign minister Tzipi Livni , sitting Justice Minister Yariv Levin , former Mossad chief Tamir Pardo , and former Israeli ambassador to the United States Gilad Erdan . Former US secretary of state John Kerry was only able to avoid testifying because the US government refused Israel 's request to involve him in the trial . <p> Of all of these massive numbers of witnesses and developments , the most important witnesses , legally speaking , have been Hefetz and Filber in Case 4000 -- both formerly very close to Netanyahu and both of whom received immunity in exchange for pointing the finger at their former boss of many years , and Hadas Klein in Case 1000 -- the key witness regarding alleged illegal gifts to Milchin and tycoon James Packer . Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu at the Tel Aviv District Court during his testimony in the trial against him , December 10 , 2024 ( credit : FLASH90/CHAIM GOLDBERG ) <h> Case 1000 <p> Case 1000 is where everything began , and it may be where Netanyahu is in most danger of a conviction , even if the charges are less sensational . <p> Netanyahu allegedly received NIS 267,254 ( $75,800 ) in cigars and NIS 184,448 ( $52,300 ) worth of champagne from billionaire Milchan between 2011 and 2016 . The original indictment said that Sara Netanyahu had allegedly received NIS 10,900 ( $3,100 ) worth of jewelry from him in the same period , although later allegations pushed that number up to over $45,000 . Netanyahu and his family also allegedly received another NIS 229,174 ( $65,000 ) in champagne and cigars from Milchan 's associate , Australian billionaire Packer , between 2014 and 2016 . <p> Klein has been the key witness to connect the dots between these former tycoon allies of Netanyahu and the alleged illegal gifts in Case 1000 . <h> Case 4000 <p> Case 4000 was originally the most threatening case with the most serious charge -- bribery -- but it has faced lots of problems . Hefetz assisted the prosecution and remained more solid than expected under cross-examination ; while Filber upset the prosecution so much that they declared him a hostile witness , ended his immunity deal , and likely plan to prosecute him in the future . <p> Hefetz provided the prosecution 's narrative regarding allegations against Netanyahu on the Walla side of the case : that the prime minister used Elovitch and Yeshua to manipulate coverage of him and his political rivals in around 300 instances . <p> The defense managed to challenge some of the instances and show that Netanyahu 's rivals sometimes also played games manipulating coverage of themselves , but if the court accepts even a majority of the instances , the volume of coverage manipulation by the prime minister would drown out what his rivals have managed to achieve . <p> Filber was supposed to close the circle by providing the prosecution narrative against Netanyahu on the Bezeq side , namely that he allegedly used his powers over communications policies to benefit the communications company to the tune of hundreds of millions of shekels -- or more . <p> Given that Elovitch owned both Bezeq and Walla , Netanyahu would have been benefiting Elovitch 's right hand so that he could essentially benefit Netanyahu with his left hand . <p> Filber was also supposed to testify that shortly after , on June 7 , 2015 , he was called to a special meeting with the prime minister , during which the scheme was hatched . But he ended up calling into doubt the date of the meeting , as well as whether Netanyahu 's instructions to him were merely designed to help Elovitch or were also good policy . If they were also good policy , then much of Case 4000 , certainly the most serious and jail-worthy bribery charge , falls apart . <p> Netanyahu is expected to testify that he was close friends with Milchin and Packer and that any gifts they gave him - no matter how expensive - were in the context of that friendship . <p> He is also expected to claim that any actions he took in favor of Milchin had nothing to do with the gifts and were the correct policy regarding the issue in question or rewarded for contributions that Milchin made to Israeli national security . <p> His biggest problem with those claims will be that Klein has testified of instances where both the prime minister and his wife , Sara Netanyahu , made demands to receive gifts , even when their billionaire allies did not seem to want to continue the gift-giving train . <p> Likewise , Netanyahu will argue in Case 4000 that trying to influence media coverage at Walla to be less biased against oneself is standard for nearly all politicians and that any policy moves made in favor of Bezeq were the right policies , or that he did not know about all of the actions taken by his subordinates on the issue . <p> He will have to contend with Hefetz 's testimony contradicting his narrative as well as parts of Filber 's testimony and others contradicting it . <p> Case 2000 is the weakest of the cases and is expected to take up less of the prime minister 's testimony in court . <p> The defense case probably will not close before the end of 2025 or even the end of 2026 , and the closing arguments and expected appeal will draw the saga out even longer . 
@@118710012 <p> In a carefully prepared speech , he discussed political and security developments , deliberately omitting any reference to his legal proceedings or testimony . <p> For 99 days , Netanyahu refrained from answering journalists ' questions . However , on the eve of his court appearance , he broke his silence . Known for his strategic acumen , Netanyahu anticipated that questions regarding his testimony would surface following his remarks on the ongoing war 's achievements , challenges , and casualties . Despite his preparation , his composure faltered . <p> When queried about his testimony , Netanyahu reacted with visible irritation , accusing the media of bias -- a moment reminiscent of former President Moshe Katsav 's 2007 press conference before his trial . He directed his frustration toward N12 reporter Yolan Cohen and Kan 11 correspondent Michael Shemesh , who raised questions about the hostage deal and the classified documents case , respectively . <p> " I heard in the media that they claim I want to evade the trial . Me ? Evade ? What nonsense . I 've waited eight years for this day . Eight years to present the truth , to utterly dismantle the absurd accusations against me , to expose the witch hunt method -- intimidation , threats , forgery of protocols , withholding exculpatory evidence , illegal leaks , brainwashing the public . That 's the system . And after all that , you think I do n't want to speak ? Tomorrow , I 'll speak , " Netanyahu stated . Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu at the Tel Aviv District Court during his testimony in the trial against him , December 10 , 2024 ( credit : FLASH90/CHAIM GOLDBERG ) <p> Body language expert Maayan Beshan , trained in criminal profiling , analyzed Netanyahu 's behavior during the press conference . According to Beshan , while Netanyahu 's words were emphatic , his reliance on prepared notes suggested a lack of genuine emotional investment in his claims of waiting eight years . She noted that such reliance on written text undermined his assertion of personal conviction . <p> Beshan also pointed out subtle cues in Netanyahu 's body language that signaled potential evasion , particularly his tendency to close his eyes while responding . She explained that this behavior often indicates an attempt to avoid confrontation or conceal something . <h> Eyes do n't lie <p> " The eyes are governed by the subconscious , making them a reliable marker of concealment , " Beshan said . Netanyahu 's measured gestures and incongruent eye movements were inconsistent with the gravity of his statements . <p> The contrast between Netanyahu 's prepared remarks and his responses during the Q&amp;A session was stark . Beshan observed that while his speech was marked by stability and synchronized gestures , his behavior shifted when faced with direct questions . <p> His eye contact diminished , and stress indicators , such as downward gazes , became apparent . Furthermore , when discussing collective efforts , such as " total victory , " his gestures were restrained . In contrast , he displayed more animated movements when talking about himself , revealing an underlying focus on personal stakes . <p> The press conference took a heated turn when News 12 's Yolan Cohen asked why the Gaza war was not halted for a comprehensive deal . Netanyahu lashed out , saying , " You constantly disseminate lies that there was a deal I blocked ! Political rivals within the cabinet spread these lies . Hamas blocked the deal , not us . You harm families with your daily falsehoods ! " Beshan observed that before delivering his response , Netanyahu repeatedly tapped his index finger -- a gesture she interpreted as a subconscious expression of tension or warning . <p> When questioned about his decision not to step aside during his trial , Netanyahu delivered his response with a twisting motion . Beshan interpreted this gesture as sending a subliminal message likening the questioner to a snake -- cunning and deceitful . 
@@118716200 <h> Opinion : Assad 's Syria was brutal . Will what comes next be better ? <h> It is hard not to worry that Syrians ' sense of deep relief today could be followed by a new set of horrors tomorrow . <p> By Daniel Byman For The New York Times <p> Dec. 10 , 2024 , 1:00 p.m . <p> It is hard not to rejoice while watching images of ecstatic Syrians toppling statues from the regime of the deposed dictator Bashar al-Assad and hearing the shouts of joy of prisoners , many of whom may have been tortured and starved , released from his dungeons . Mr. al-Assad 's Syria was brutal for the regime 's opponents , and 13 years of civil war and a kleptocratic regime made life dangerous and miserable for ordinary Syrians . In addition to striking a blow for human freedom , Mr. al-Assad 's fall also removes an Iranian-backed , anti-American and anti-Israel dictator from the Middle East chessboard . <p> And yet it is hard not to also feel uneasy . Having watched similar images of Afghans freed from the Taliban 's violent rule in 2001 and jubilant Iraqis in 2003 after the fall of Saddam Hussein , one worries that Syrians ' sense of deep relief today could be followed by a new set of horrors tomorrow . <p> One of the biggest uncertainties facing Syrians and the country 's neighbors is the true nature of their liberators . Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( H.T.S. ) has led the latest round of anti-regime offensives to victory , and it is now the dominant player among the diverse opposition that formed against Mr. al-Assad over his 24 years in power . The United States has designated H.T.S. and its leader , Abu Mohammad al-Jolani , as terrorists ; there is even a $10 million price on Mr. Jolani 's head . <p> H.T.S. , like the Islamic State , grew out of Jabhat al-Nusra , which in turn emerged from Al Qaeda in Iraq . Mr. Jolani was initially loyal to Al Qaeda when ISIS split from it but , in 2016 , he publicly rejected the organization and formed H.T.S. a year later . Mr. Jolani has repeatedly stated that he opposes foreign terrorist attacks and rejects an ISIS-type caliphate , and in H.T.S.-controlled areas he has tried to suppress fighters loyal to Al Qaeda and ISIS . This is encouraging , but it is also possible that the H.T.S. leader has merely been pragmatic , turning against these groups temporarily in a bid for power , and could be willing to work with them once again in the future . <p> How whatever government takes shape will govern Syria 's diverse population is another open question . Mr. Jolani has told Christian , Druse , and other minority leaders that they are free to worship , but his followers remain committed to an extreme version of Islam , and the group 's track record is mixed . The U.S. State Department reports that H.T.S. has committed human rights abuses against minorities and seized the property of displaced Christians . In parts of the country that have been under its control , H.T.S. has placed limits on public displays of Christianity , even when it tolerated Christian worship . <p> Even if H.T.S. itself reins in its most extreme elements , the Islamic State may grow in power . Well before the latest offensive , the Islamic State was on pace in 2024 to double its number of attacks in Iraq and Syria during 2023 . It now has an estimated 2,500 fighters in Iraq and Syria , with established training camps in remote areas . Thousands of Islamic State fighters are also detained in Syria , and some may be released . As various opposition groups scramble for power , the Islamic State may gain more territory and freedom for its operations . <p> It 's unclear whether H.T.S. will be able to consolidate power , cooperate with rivals , and form a stable government . It is the strongest opposition group in Syria now , but it is not the only one . The United States has long worked with the Kurdish-dominated Syrian Democratic Forces to fight the Islamic State , maintaining around 900 troops there . The S.D.F. seized more territory as regime forces fell apart , and in other parts of the country , local militias also took advantage of the chaos . A unified government may emerge from all this , but in the short term at least it is more likely that different groups will dominate different parts of the country and , if the past is any guide , may end up turning their guns on one another in the struggle for power . <p> It is possible that H.T.S. and the other militia groups , as well as local residents , could take revenge on Mr. al-Assad 's supporters and minority communities , especially the Alawites , who made up the core of the Assad regime . To bolster his power , Mr. al-Assad assembled a coalition of Alawite , Christian , Druse , and other minorities to offset the demographic strength of the country 's Sunni Muslim majority . Now that power in much of the country is back in Sunni hands , the once-marginalized may turn on those they see as their former oppressors . It 's happened before : In 2003 , Iraqis began to hunt down members of the Baath Party whom they blamed for the regime 's atrocities . Syrians have good reason to hate the people who tortured and oppressed them , but in these situations it is too often innocent family and community members , not the truly guilty , who are punished . <p> If chaos , revenge , and infighting consume parts of Syria , the humanitarian situation may get worse , not better . The war has led to almost seven million people displaced within Syria and over five million refugees . The good news is that many of those refugees , who have been living in Turkey , Lebanon , and other countries , may return , but communities linked to Mr. al-Assad may flee en masse if they are targeted . They will need help in their host countries , which are already strained , while those returning will come home to destroyed cities and a defunct economy that will take decades to rebuild . <p> The world , however , is in no mood to help . On Saturday , President-elect Donald Trump tweeted , " DO NOT GET INVOLVED ! " The wars in Ukraine , Sudan and Gaza all demand the world 's resources , and Western governments will be particularly leery of working with H.T.S. , even for humanitarian reasons . <p> Although humanitarian support will likely be limited , the instability of Syria is likely to lead to military action by other governments in the region as they jockey to reposition themselves . Both Iran and Russia are withdrawing their forces , making it easier for other states to operate and furthering the power vacuum in the country . Turkey is particularly concerned about the Kurdish-dominated Syrian Democratic Forces and may act militarily to weaken them . And Israel will almost certainly fear that the Assad regime , the devil it knew , will be replaced by a new force that may be less deterrable . Indeed , Jolani is the H.T.S. leader 's nom de guerre , highlighting his ties to the Golan Heights that was once part of Syria and that Israel annexed in 1981 . Israelis may also worry that Hezbollah or other Iranian-linked organizations will take advantage of the situation to conduct operations against Israel . <p> All this will make it harder for any government to control the country and impose order . <p> If the outgoing and incoming administrations in Washington want to avoid more regional proxy wars , a new humanitarian crisis and a potential terrorist haven , the next few months should involve careful diplomacy while maintaining -- and ideally increasing -- the U.S. military presence in the area . U.S. leaders should work with allies to press H.T.S. on its commitment to stopping terrorism and ensuring human rights , work with regional partners like Turkey and Israel to discourage their meddling , and coordinate a broad humanitarian response . <p> We all can hope that Syria is putting its horrific past behind it , but hope is not a policy . Brutal regimes and devastating civil wars have long legacies . A focused U.S. effort can alleviate some of Syria 's problems , even if it can not solve them completely . <p> Daniel Byman is the director of the Warfare , Irregular Threats , and Terrorism Program at CSIS and a professor in the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University . This article originally appeared in The New York Times . 
@@118719604 <h> Israel 's Netanyahu vows to challenge ' absurd ' corruption charges as he takes the stand in his trial <h> TIA GOLDENBERG <h> The Associated Press <p> TEL AVIV , Israel ( AP ) -- Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu promised defiantly today to knock down corruption allegations against him as he began testifying in his long-running trial , becoming the first sitting Israeli leader to take the stand as a criminal defendant . <p> The testimony is another low point for Israel 's longest-serving leader , who also faces an international arrest warrant for alleged war crimes in Israel 's war in Gaza . <p> In his opening testimony in a packed Tel Aviv courtroom , Netanyahu argued that he was a dedicated leader and a defender of Israel 's interests , swatting away the charges against him as a " drop in the sea " compared to the challenges he has faced protecting his country . <p> But the charges have torn open divisions in Israel and complicated Netanyahu 's legacy , which has also been tainted by the war in Gaza and the growing international isolation Israel faces because of it . <p> Speaking freely and appearing at ease , Netanyahu said he could balance appearing at his trial with his duties as prime minister at a time when Israel is still fighting a war in Gaza and contending with the fall of Bashar Assad in neighboring Syria . <p> " I waited eight years for this moment , to say the truth , " Netanyahu said , standing at a podium , with his son Avner and several members of his Likud party seated on the courtroom benches . He said his testimony would " poke holes in the absurd accusations . " <p> Netanyahu will answer during his court appearances to charges of fraud , breach of trust and accepting bribes in three separate cases . <p> He is accused of accepting tens of thousands of dollars ' worth of cigars and champagne from a billionaire Hollywood producer in exchange for assistance with personal and business interests . He is also accused of promoting advantageous regulations for media moguls in exchange for favorable coverage of himself and his family . <p> Netanyahu , 75 , denies wrongdoing , saying the charges are a witch hunt orchestrated by a hostile media and a biased legal system out to topple his lengthy rule . His testimony caps years of scandals that have swirled around him and his family , who have gained a reputation as enjoying a lavish lifestyle at taxpayers ' expense . <p> Netanyahu 's testimony is taking place in an underground , fortified courtroom for security reasons . Outside the courthouse , dozens of protesters gathered , both supporters of Netanyahu and his opponents . A banner draped outside read " Crime Minister " as each side chanted slogans . Some families of hostages held in Gaza also demonstrated . <p> At the start of his testimony , a judge told Netanyahu he had the same privileges as other witnesses and could sit or stand as he chose . <p> Netanyahu told his version of events and shared personal details about his life that he might hope would shape the judges ' perception of him . He said at the start of his career in public service he would lose sleep over media coverage but learned it had no meaningful bearing -- in contrast to the prosecution 's attempts to paint him as image-obsessed . <p> He said he smoked cigars but could hardly finish them because of his workload , and hated champagne . <p> Ahead of the testimony 's start , Netanyahu 's lawyer , Amit Hadad , accused the Israeli justice system of making up the charges in an attempt to ensnare Netanyahu . <p> " There was a huge effort ... to find a few pieces of a puzzle that do n't connect to each other , " Haddad said , as Netanyahu sat on a bench behind him . " In court , in the light of day , we see everything falls apart . " <p> The testimony , set to take place six hours a day , three days a week for several weeks , will take up a significant chunk of Netanyahu 's working hours , prompting critics to ask if he can capably manage a country embroiled in a war on one front , containing the fallout from a second , and keeping tabs on other potential regional threats , including from Iran . <p> His lawyer asked that he be allowed to receive notes while testifying to help ensure he could continue running the country , and at some points during the trial , Netanyahu did . <p> Under Israeli law , indicted prime ministers are not required to step down . But the charges against Netanyahu cleaved deep divisions in Israel , with protesters demanding he resign and former political allies refusing to serve in government with the Israeli leader , triggering a political crisis that led to five elections in less than four years beginning in 2019 . <p> Netanyahu 's supporters view the charges as the result of bias and overreach by the justice system . <p> Despite the pressure , Netanyahu has rejected calls to step down and has used his position as prime minister to lash out at law enforcement , media and courts . <p> An Israeli court rejected a request by Netanyahu 's lawyers to reduce the expected number of hours of testimony , as well as several other requests to delay its start , which they said were necessary because of the prime minister 's busy schedule and the country 's significant challenges . A verdict is n't expected until 2026 at the earliest and Netanyahu will have the option to appeal to the Supreme Court . <p> Since the trial began in 2020 , the court has heard prosecution witnesses in the three cases , including some of Netanyahu 's once closest aides who turned state witnesses . The prosecution has tried to portray the prime minister as an image-obsessed leader who broke the law to improve his public perception . <p> Netanyahu 's testimony could further tarnish his image at a complicated time . His popular support dropped after Hamas ' Oct. 7 , 2023 , attacks , with the public blaming his leadership for failing to prevent the assault , and if elections were held today he would struggle to form a government . Israel is still fighting Hamas in Gaza with no end in sight , despite heavy international pressure to wind down the war , as well as pressure from the families of hostages held in Gaza and their supporters to bring their loved ones home . <p> The Israeli leader along with his former defense minister also face an arrest warrant from the International Criminal Court for alleged war crimes charges related to the war in Gaza . The warrant puts Netanyahu in the same company as Russian President Vladimir Putin and former Sudanese leader Omar al-Bashir. 
@@118741700 <p> WASHINGTON -- WASHINGTON ( AP ) -- Donald Trump does n't think much of Joe Biden 's foreign policy record . The Republican president-elect frequently casts the outgoing Democratic president as a feckless leader who shredded American credibility around the world during his four-year term . <p> But a funny thing happened on Trump 's way back to the White House : The Biden and Trump national security teams have come to an understanding that they have no choice but to work together as conflicts in Gaza , Syria and Ukraine have left a significant swath of the world on a knife 's edge . <p> It 's not clear how much common ground those teams have found as they navigate crises that threaten to cause more global upheaval as Trump prepares to settle back into the White House on Jan. 20 , 2025 . <p> " There is a deep conviction on the part of the incoming national security team that we are dealing with ... and on our part , directed from President Biden , that it is our job , on behalf of the American people , to make sure this is a smooth transition , " Biden 's national security adviser Jake Sullivan said during a weekend appearance at a forum in California . " And we are committed to discharging that duty as relentlessly and faithfully as we possibly can . " <p> To be certain , Trump and his allies have n't let up on their criticism of Biden , putting the blame squarely on the shoulders of Biden and Democrats for the series of crises around the globe . <p> The president-elect says Biden is responsible for the wars in Gaza and Ukraine , arguing that policies under his watch led to Hamas and Russia becoming emboldened . And shortly before Syria 's Bashar al-Assad 's government collapsed last week , Trump blamed Biden 's old boss , former President Barack Obama , for failing to enforce his own " red line " in 2013 after Assad deployed chemical weapons that killed hundreds of civilians , and laying the groundwork for Islamic militants to establish a beachhead in the country . <p> But amid the hectoring of Biden , Trump team officials acknowledge that the Biden White House has worked diligently to keep Trump 's circle apprised and help ensure there is a smooth handoff on national security matters . <p> " For our adversaries out there that think this is a time of opportunity that they can play one administration off the other , they 're wrong , and we are -- we are hand in glove , " Mike Waltz , Trump 's pick for national security adviser , said in a Fox News interview last month . " We are one team with the United States in this transition . " <p> While Trump rarely has a good word for the Democratic administration , there 's an appreciation in Trump world of how the Biden White House has gone about sharing critical national security information , according to a Trump transition official who was not authorized to comment publicly . <p> The coordination is precisely how lawmakers intended for incoming and outgoing administrations to conduct themselves during a handover when they bolstered federal support for transitions . It 's already the most substantive handoff process since 2009 , aides to Biden and Trump acknowledged , surpassing Trump 's chaotic first takeover in 2017 and his wide refusal to cooperate with the incoming Biden team in 2021 . <p> Sullivan , who was to travel to Israel on Wednesday for talks with Netanyahu , has in turn kept Waltz in the loop about the Biden administration 's efforts at getting a ceasefire and hostage deal in Gaza before Trump 's inauguration . <p> Biden administration officials say that the two national security teams have also closely coordinated on Ukraine and Syria , though they have provided scant detail on what that coordination has looked like . <p> " Let me put it this way : Nothing that we 're doing and nothing that we 're saying are coming as a surprise to the incoming team , " White House national security spokesman John Kirby said . " They will decide for themselves what policies they might want to keep in place , what approaches they might want to continue and which ones they wo n't . " <p> Trump made clear during his campaign that he would move to end the war in Ukraine quickly once he came to office . He called on Russian leader Vladimir Putin earlier this week to act to reach an immediate ceasefire with Ukraine . <p> But the Biden White House has begun gently -- and publicly -- making the case for how continued support for Ukraine lines up with Trump 's priorities . <p> On Saturday , Sullivan pointed to comments made by Trump on social media to buttress the case that Biden 's push for continued support of Ukraine falls in line with the incoming president 's thinking . <p> Trump earlier that day had noted that Assad 's rule was collapsing because Russia " lost all interest in Syria because of Ukraine , where close to 600,000 Russian soldiers lay wounded or dead , in a war that should never have started , and could go on forever . " <p> " Russia and Iran are in a weakened state right now , one because of Ukraine and a bad economy , the other because of Israel and its fighting success , " Trump said in the posting on Truth Social . <p> Sullivan underscored that Biden and Trump are in agreement that there should be no American boots on the ground in Syria and that the war in Ukraine was a major factor in Assad 's fall . <p> " I was a little bit struck by it -- earlier in the post , he said part of the reason this is happening is because of Russia 's war against Ukraine , " Sullivan said of Trump . " And I think he even referenced the sheer scale of the casualties that Russia has suffered in Ukraine , and for that reason , they 're not in a position to defend their client , Assad . And on that point , we 're in vigorous agreement . " <p> Two days later in Washington , Sullivan made the case that Trump should bolster the little-known U.S. International Development Finance Corporation that was created during the Republican 's first term . <p> The push for reauthorizing the foreign aid agency comes as Trump has promised to make massive cuts to the federal bureaucracy . <p> Trump signed into law the agency 's authority -- tucked into a five-year reauthorization of the Federal Aviation Administration -- to provide $60 billion in loans , loan guarantees and insurance to companies in developing nations . <p> Sullivan called the agency an effective tool for private-public partnerships , before allowing that " maybe I should n't be the one " making the case " since I 'm leaving , but I will give my advice anyway . " <p> " It was created as we 've all noted , under the Trump administration , " Sullivan said in remarks at the agency 's annual conference . " It has been strengthened under the Biden administration . And as we look to DFC reauthorization next year , it has to remain a bipartisan priority . " <p> After Assad 's government fell , the Biden administration issued a warning to Iran not to speed up its nuclear program after one of its closest allies was toppled , declaring " that 'll never happen on our watch . " The U.S. official , who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss the sensitive topic , hinted at coordination on the matter with the Trump team . <p> The official said there had been " good discussions " with the incoming administration on the matter and there was an expectation the same policy would carry over . <p> Biden has also approved a new national security memorandum that is meant to serve as a road map for the incoming Trump administration as it looks to counter growing cooperation between China , Iran , North Korea and Russia , the White House announced Wednesday . <p> Biden administration officials began developing the guidance this summer . It was shaped to be a document that could help the next administration build its approach from Day 1 on how it will go about dealing with the tightening relationships between the United States ' most prominent adversaries and competitors , according to two other senior administration officials . <p> One of those officials , who spoke on the condition of anonymity under ground rules set by the White House , sought to assure the incoming Trump team that the Biden White House effort " is n't trying to box them in or tilt them toward one policy option or another . " <p> Instead , the official said , it 's about helping the next administration build " capacity " as it shapes its policies on some the most difficult foreign policies it will face . 
@@118750212 <h> Floyd Mayweather greeted by mob in London , issues response <p> Floyd Mayweather found himself at the center of an intense scene during a brief trip to London earlier this week . While shopping in Hatton Garden , a well-known jewelry district , a group of men approached the boxing legend , questioning his vocal support for Israel . Mayweather 's unapologetic response , " Proud to support the Jews , " quickly escalated tensions , leading to an aggressive confrontation . <p> Video footage of the incident shows Mayweather being escorted by his security team as the situation grew heated . Loud shouts filled the area , with individuals yelling profanities as Mayweather exited . Claims spread online that the boxer had been physically attacked , but Mayweather wasted no time addressing these rumors , Complex reports . <p> " There 's no truth to the rumors , " Mayweather clarified in a statement shared on Instagram . He emphasized that his security team acted swiftly to manage the crowd and confirmed that he was neither struck nor harmed . " I 'm perfectly fine , " he added , describing the incident as blown out of proportion . <h> Navigating Controversy Amid Global Tensions <p> The altercation sheds light on the heightened sensitivity around global politics , particularly regarding the Israel-Palestine conflict . Mayweather , who recently met with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , has been outspoken in his support for Israel , a stance that has sparked backlash in some circles . <p> In recent weeks , tensions surrounding the conflict have grown more intense . Amnesty International released findings alleging genocide against Palestinians in Gaza , claims that Israel strongly denies . These developments have further polarized public opinion , placing prominent figures like Mayweather under scrutiny . <p> Floyd Mayweather maintained his focus on the bigger picture , brushing off the incident and continuing his brief visit to London . While the heated exchange grabbed headlines , the undefeated boxer chose to downplay the drama , reaffirming his stance without further fueling the controversy . <p> Burtland Dixon is an entertainment , celebrity , and music journalist for ClutchPoints . He has a degree from Cal State San Marcos , and he 's demonstrated his pop culture expertise for years with bylines at Idolator , Trend Chaser , and Buzznet. 
@@118750811 <h> Why is Christian Science in our name ? <p> Our name is about honesty . The Monitor is owned by The Christian Science Church , and we 've always been transparent about that . <p> The Church publishes the Monitor because it sees good journalism as vital to progress in the world . Since 1908 , we 've aimed " to injure no man , but to bless all mankind , " as our founder , Mary Baker Eddy , put it . <p> Here , you 'll find award-winning journalism not driven by commercial influences -- a news organization that takes seriously its mission to uplift the world by seeking solutions and finding reasons for credible hope . <p> " The minimum wage back home was $7.25 , and here , that 's a coffee . " That 's Jillian McGeehin , a small-town student now attending the University of Chicago . Today 's story by Kelly Field looks at why relatively few rural students go to top colleges -- and what can be done about it . Elite colleges have widened America 's cultural rifts . Kelly 's story considers the idea that , in reaching out to rural America , maybe they can be a part of the solution , too . <p> The Christian Science Monitor is an international news organization offering calm , thoughtful , award-winning coverage for independent thinkers . We tackle difficult conversations and divisive issues -- we do n't shy away from hard problems . But you 'll find in each Monitor news story qualities that can lead to solutions and unite us -- qualities such as respect , resilience , hope , and fairness . <p> Within hours of Syrian rebels entering Damascus Sunday , President Joe Biden was on national television laying out preemptive military actions and pledging continued U.S. engagement in Syria . The fall of the Assad regime is " a moment of risk and uncertainty , " he said , pledging the U.S. would " work with our partners in Syria " and " remain vigilant . " <p> Indeed , for many regional observers , this moment presents a number of opportunities not imagined even a week ago , including , most ambitiously , containing Iran 's nuclear program . But the U.S. will only be able to exploit those opportunities with hands-on engagement , diplomats say . <h> Why We Wrote This <p> The fall of Syria 's autocratic leader Bashar al-Assad has created challenges and opportunities for the United States . But the dissonance between the current and future U.S. administrations is confusing major players in the Middle East . <p> The U.S. has already carried out dozens of strikes against weapons sites in Syria , yet U.S. allies and adversaries alike may wonder if a last flourish of action by Mr. Biden will be followed by an inward turn by the Trump White House . <p> John Hannah , who served both Democratic and Republican administrations , says , " We 're in this odd situation where it 's not exactly clear what U.S. policy is at a time of tremendous flux and opportunities . " <p> Within hours of Syrian rebels entering Damascus Sunday and forcing autocratic leader Bashar al-Assad into exile , President Joe Biden was on national television laying out preemptive military actions and pledging continued U.S. engagement as Syrians chart a new path forward . <p> The fall of the Assad regime " is a moment of historic opportunity for the long-suffering people of Syria , " Mr. Biden said . Adding that it is " also a moment of risk and uncertainty , " he pledged the U.S. would " work with our partners in Syria " and " remain vigilant . " <p> The president said the roughly 900 U.S. troops in eastern Syria tasked with preventing a resurgence of the Islamic State ( ISIS ) , will remain on the ground , assuring that the vacuum of power did not open the door to new forms of Islamist extremism . <h> Why We Wrote This <p> The fall of Syria 's autocratic leader Bashar al-Assad has created challenges and opportunities for the United States . But the dissonance between the current and future U.S. administrations is confusing major players in the Middle East . <p> Then Tuesday John Kirby , the White House national security communications adviser , announced that President Biden was dispatching national security adviser Jake Sullivan to the region to address both Syria and Gaza ceasefire and hostage issues . Also this week , Secretary of State Antony Blinken will visit Turkey , which is backing an insurgent faction that has clashed in northeast Syria with U.S.-backed Kurds , and Jordan . <p> The flurry of activity -- and the commitment to remain intensely involved in a roiling Middle East -- contrasts sharply with the message sent so far by President-elect Donald Trump in response to the Syria crisis . <p> As rebel forces swept southward toward Damascus last week , Mr. Trump jumped on social media to trumpet the hands-off approach that could become the guiding principle of his Middle East policy and broader foreign policy vision . <h> " We 're in this odd situation " <p> The dissonance between the current and future U.S. administrations is confusing major players in the region and raising questions about U.S. ties going forward , some Mideast policy experts say . <p> " This comes at a very awkward time in a presidential transition , " says Jon Alterman , director of the Middle East program at the center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington . " Trump 's stated goal is remaining aloof from the conflict in Syria , but many U.S. allies have acute interests at stake while the potential for problems ... to metastasize is large . " <p> Orhan Qereman/Reuters <p> U.S. military vehicles drive in Hasaka , Syria , Dec. 6 , 2024 . President Biden says the roughly 900 U.S. troops in eastern Syria tasked with preventing a resurgence of the Islamic State will remain on the ground . <p> Perhaps most worrisome for the U.S. among the problems that could spread from a destabilized Syria is international terrorism . ISIS had been regaining strength in Syria even before Mr. Assad 's fall , with counterterrorism experts reporting a multiplication of attacks by the group over the past month . <p> The U.S. has already carried out dozens of strikes against weapons sites in Syria -- and will remain ready to take further action against assets threatening regional stability , including a regrouping ISIS , administration officials say . <p> Yet U.S. allies and adversaries alike may wonder , experts and former diplomats say , if a last flourish of action by Mr. Biden will be followed by an inward turn and much higher threshold for international engagement by the Trump White House . <p> " We 're in this odd situation where it 's not exactly clear what U.S. policy is at a time of tremendous flux and opportunities , " says John Hannah , who served in senior national security positions in both Democratic and Republican administrations . <h> Concern for opportunities lost <p> Indeed for many regional observers , this moment presents a number of opportunities not imagined even a week ago . They range from seeing an end to Russia 's military presence in Syria to undoing the chokehold Iran-backed Houthi rebels have had on international trade routes off the coast of Yemen . But the U.S. will only be able to exploit them -- and accurately assess the looming risks the situation presents -- with nonstop , hands-on engagement , some seasoned diplomats say . <p> " This is when there is a great need for what I would call expeditionary diplomacy , " says Ryan Crocker , a former U.S. ambassador to Syria . " This is a time , if we want to avoid missteps or major surprises , for the closest possible consultations we can manage with our partners in the area . " <p> Ambassador Crocker also advocates " a diplomatic presence established on the ground as soon as possible , " despite the complications the U.S. faces in engaging directly with the leading rebel faction , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham . HTS is designated a terrorist organization by the U.S. , European Union , and United Nations , though it has sought to make the case it has moderated . <p> For the most ambitious among the " this moment presents opportunities " camp , Mr. Assad 's fall -- and the blow it has dealt to chief patrons Russia and Iran -- cements a growing conviction that there 's a window for action against Tehran 's advancing nuclear program . <p> Their concern is that the transition from a lame-duck U.S. administration to one already projecting an isolationist bent , could mean opportunities lost . <p> Ghaith Alsayed/AP <p> Government soldiers and allies are taken into custody by opposition fighters on the road between Homs and Damascus , near Homs , Syria , Dec. 8 , 2024 . <p> " There are some unique opportunities " because of events in Syria " to address some of the unresolved challenges in the Middle East ... and the most important of those is Iran 's nuclear program , " says Mr. Hannah , now a senior fellow in defense and strategy at the Jewish Institute for National Security of America . " We may have an opportunity to get that job done . " <p> Diplomats and others who served in the first Trump administration say they are all but certain the U.S. will return next year to the " maximum pressure campaign " of strengthened sanctions against Iran . <h> " A fight for Trump 's mind " <p> At the same time , others acknowledge there is likely to be an intense **36;1968;TOOLONG competition within the new Trump administration for a green light on looming consequential policy decisions . They include the level and type of cooperation with Israel on any military action against Iranian nuclear sites . <p> For advocates of intervention , the opportunity may be now or never to stop a severely weakened Iran from reacting to the loss of the keystone in its " Axis of Resistance " by rushing to produce a nuclear weapon . U.N . officials reported last week that Iran 's nuclear program has advanced significantly in recent months . <p> The other key Syria-related question a returning President Trump will face is what to do about the U.S. forces on the ground and their counterterrorism mission . <p> " I think there will be a fight for Trump 's mind about how quickly we pull our forces out of eastern Syria , " says Mr. Hannah . <p> Analysts with contacts inside the incoming administration 's foreign-policy circles say the " not our fight " group will argue that any reemerging international terrorism threat can be addressed by other U.S. assets in the region . <p> But others say President Trump may want to think twice before pulling the plug on the counterterrorism forces . <p> " If I were talking to President Trump about our troops there , I 'd remind him that their prime mission is ISIS " and stopping the group 's resurgence , says Elliott Abrams , who served as special representative for Iran in the first Trump White House . <p> " I would say , ' Mr. President , if you pull our guys out , and there 's an attack here by one of their guys , you 're going to be blamed , ' " Ambassador Abrams says . " ' It 's not worth it . ' " <p> You 've read of free articles . Subscribe to continue . <h> Help fund Monitor journalism for $11/ month <p> Monitor journalism changes lives because we open that too-small box that most people think they live in . We believe news can and should expand a sense of identity and possibility beyond narrow conventional expectations . <h> Digital subscription includes : <p> What is the Monitor difference ? Tackling the tough headlines -- with humanity . Listening to sources -- with respect . Seeing the story that others are missing by reporting what so often gets overlooked : the values that connect us . That 's Monitor reporting -- news that changes how you see the world . <p> About a year ago , I happened upon this statement about the Monitor in the Harvard Business Review -- under the charming heading of " do things that do n't interest you " : <p> " Many things that end up " being meaningful , writes social scientist Joseph Grenny , " have come from conference workshops , articles , or online videos that began as a chore and ended with an insight . My work in Kenya , for example , was heavily influenced by a Christian Science Monitor article I had forced myself to read 10 years earlier . Sometimes , we call things ' boring ' simply because they lie outside the box we are currently in . " <p> If you were to come up with a punchline to a joke about the Monitor , that would probably be it . We 're seen as being global , fair , insightful , and perhaps a bit too earnest . We 're the bran muffin of journalism . <p> But you know what ? We change lives . And I 'm going to argue that we change lives precisely because we force open that too-small box that most human beings think they live in . <p> The Monitor is a peculiar little publication that 's hard for the world to figure out . We 're run by a church , but we 're not only for church members and we 're not about converting people . We 're known as being fair even as the world becomes as polarized as at any time since the newspaper 's founding in 1908 . <p> We have a mission beyond circulation , we want to bridge divides . We 're about kicking down the door of thought everywhere and saying , " You are bigger and more capable than you realize . And we can prove it . " <p> If you 're looking for bran muffin journalism , you can subscribe to the Monitor for $15 . You 'll get the Monitor Weekly magazine , the Monitor Daily email , and unlimited access to CSMonitor.com. 
@@118750813 <h> Why is Christian Science in our name ? <p> Our name is about honesty . The Monitor is owned by The Christian Science Church , and we 've always been transparent about that . <p> The Church publishes the Monitor because it sees good journalism as vital to progress in the world . Since 1908 , we 've aimed " to injure no man , but to bless all mankind , " as our founder , Mary Baker Eddy , put it . <p> Here , you 'll find award-winning journalism not driven by commercial influences -- a news organization that takes seriously its mission to uplift the world by seeking solutions and finding reasons for credible hope . <p> " The minimum wage back home was $7.25 , and here , that 's a coffee . " That 's Jillian McGeehin , a small-town student now attending the University of Chicago . Today 's story by Kelly Field looks at why relatively few rural students go to top colleges -- and what can be done about it . Elite colleges have widened America 's cultural rifts . Kelly 's story considers the idea that , in reaching out to rural America , maybe they can be a part of the solution , too . <p> The Christian Science Monitor is an international news organization offering calm , thoughtful , award-winning coverage for independent thinkers . We tackle difficult conversations and divisive issues -- we do n't shy away from hard problems . But you 'll find in each Monitor news story qualities that can lead to solutions and unite us -- qualities such as respect , resilience , hope , and fairness . <h> Deepen your worldview with Monitor Highlights . <h> Time to go home ? Hezbollah ceasefire offers northern Israelis hope . <p> <p> Dina Kraft <p> Orit Praag stands in the garden of her son 's kibbutz home , partially damaged by a missile that fell nearby , on Kibbutz Dafna , Israel , Dec. 4 , 2024 . Behind her are the hills marking the Lebanese border . <p> Like many evacuated residents of northern Israel , Orit Praag 's family members are awaiting clarity to the question they 've debated every day since Hezbollah opened fire in solidarity with Hamas 14 months ago : Will it be safe enough to return ? <p> On a recent visit to Kibbutz Dafna near the Lebanese border , Ms. Praag is so delighted by the Israel-Hezbollah ceasefire that she 's almost bouncing as she walks in the garden of her son 's home . During the fighting , a Hezbollah missile landed on the sidewalk next door . Dafna 's avocado grove was destroyed , the roof of its school struck . <h> Why We Wrote This <p> Northern Israel offered residents a relaxed , pastoral refuge away from the country 's crowded center . Now a ceasefire with Hezbollah , bolstered perhaps by the fall of Syria 's government , offers hope that northerners displaced by war can return home . <p> Ms. Praag 's parents ' generation founded the communal farm as young refugees from Nazi Europe , and she hopes the ceasefire means her son 's family will return . The northern Galilee 's communities had never been evacuated , even amid wars in 1982 and 2006 . The question of returning is also symbolic , testing the Zionist ethos of defending borders through settlement . <p> " I 've lived in this area almost 50 years and have experienced how we go from round of fighting to round of fighting . ... It 's a crazy reality , " says Arik Yaacovi , the kibbutz manager . " What will make the difference in people feeling safe is the beefing up of security arrangements , " he continues . " But we have no other country , and woe to us if we surrender . " <p> Orit Praag is so delighted by the ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah that she 's almost bouncing as she walks along the lavender and rosemary bushes in the garden of her son 's home . <p> His family has not lived here on this kibbutz near Lebanon for the past 14 months . <p> Along with some 60,000 other residents in villages and towns along Israel 's northern border , they left the day the community was awoken by evacuation orders . The region became a second war front a day after the Oct. 7 , 2023 , assault on Israel 's southern border from Gaza , when Hezbollah opened fire in solidarity with Hamas . <h> Why We Wrote This <p> Northern Israel offered residents a relaxed , pastoral refuge away from the country 's crowded center . Now a ceasefire with Hezbollah , bolstered perhaps by the fall of Syria 's government , offers hope that northerners displaced by war can return home . <p> Since then , a Hezbollah missile landed on the sidewalk next door , shattering windows and leaving the walls of all the nearby houses riddled with shrapnel . Kibbutz Dafna 's avocado grove was destroyed by a fire , the roof of its school struck , and thousands of missiles and drones were shot toward the community and points deeper in Israel . <p> But residents say they hope the ceasefire means they will return to this communal farm that is nestled in the Hula Valley . A ridge of Lebanese hills marks the border about a mile away . <p> Ms. Praag 's family , like so many of the other evacuees from kibbutzim and towns along the northern border , remains torn , awaiting clarity to the question they 've debated every day since their abrupt departure : Will it be safe enough to return ? <p> " I admit I 'm feeling optimistic right now , " she says . " The ceasefire has created positive feelings and hope . I could see that this past weekend , seeing so many young families arrive to visit their homes and sleep over . My grandson even made a video about the kibbutz for his classmates , declaring , ' This is my home . ' " <h> Syria 's impact <p> According to the ceasefire brokered by the United States and France two weeks ago , Hezbollah forces must retreat 18 miles north of the border within 60 days while Israeli troops withdraw from southern Lebanon , to be replaced by Lebanese and United Nations troops . Then tens of thousands of Lebanese and Israeli civilians from both sides of the border are allowed to return home . <p> Stoyan Nenov/Reuters <p> Neighbors look at a damaged home following the ceasefire between Israel and the Iran-backed militia Hezbollah , near the Israel-Lebanon border in Metula , northern Israel , Dec. 3 , 2024 . <p> Buoying hopes , the dramatic fall over the weekend of the autocratic Assad regime to rebel forces in Syria increases the likelihood the truce holds , some Israeli military officials believe . The regime 's abandonment by its longtime sponsor Iran signals Tehran 's diminished power and ability to easily resupply Hezbollah in Lebanon . <p> Dafna and other northern communities historically were seen as among the most threatened in Israel . In the Jewish state 's earlier years , the kibbutz was targeted by Syria and later by militant groups in Lebanon . <p> But the communities had never been evacuated , even amid the fierce Lebanon wars in 1982 and 2006 . The question of returning is also symbolic , a test of the Zionist ethos of defending borders through settlement . <p> Ms. Praag 's parents ' generation founded Kibbutz Dafna as young refugees from Nazi Europe . The northern Galilee , ringed by Syrian and Lebanese hills and under the gaze of towering Mount Hermon in the northern Golan Heights , is beloved for its fresh air , pastoral views , and relaxed pace far from Israel 's crowded center . <p> " I was born here , and this is home to me , with these views and the sound of nearby rivers , " says Ms. Praag . " Since I was in nursery school I heard the Syrians around me , threatening us in those days , but I knew that Israel would save me . " <p> Now , referencing the 100 Israelis still held hostage in Gaza , and an Israeli government that she and others criticize for not acting more urgently to negotiate their release , she wonders what would happen if Hezbollah captured her or her neighbors . <p> Hamas ' mass hostage-taking is a plan reportedly modeled on one by Hezbollah . <p> " We were used to having security incidents , but nothing prepared us for what happened on Oct. 7 , and what happened that day could have happened here , " says Ravit Rosental , principal of the kibbutz middle school and high school . " I wo n't feel safe until the hostages return . " <h> " It 's a crazy reality " <p> Arik Yaacovi , the kibbutz manager , says the trauma is so deep , " It will take a generation for a sense of security to return . " <p> Dina Kraft <p> Arik Yaacovi , manager of Kibbutz Dafna , kneels in front of a home damaged by shrapnel from a missile that exploded just a few feet away in the communal village in northern Israel , Dec. 4 , 2024 . <p> Especially dangerous to border communities is the firing of anti-tank missiles directly onto homes . That threat has been curbed , as has the risk of infiltrations , he says , thanks to the massive Israeli offensive that began in September and included the first ground invasion of southern Lebanon since 2006 . <p> Israeli forces uprooted Hezbollah tunnels and lookouts , and airstrikes killed much of Hezbollah 's top leadership , including its storied leader , Hassan Nasrallah . Yet the threat of ballistic missiles remains . <p> " I 've lived in this area almost 50 years and have experienced how we go from round of fighting to round of fighting . ... It 's a crazy reality . No one wants to raise their children like this , " Mr. Yaacovi says . <p> " What will make the difference in people feeling safe is the beefing up of security arrangements , including the kibbutz fence , and how extensively the army will be deployed along the border , " he continues . " But we have no other country , and woe to us if we surrender . It 's an essential part of the country . " <p> When the kibbutz , whose main income is from tourism and avocado and citrus groves , evacuated its 1,050 residents , they scattered across the country and even abroad . Many are staying at hotels and apartments paid for by the government near the Sea of Galilee . <p> Often in the same families , partners disagree over where they should cast their future . Ms. Rosental , the school principal , reports a spike in anxiety and other emotional problems among the students , with parents too emotionally spent to address them . <p> As the fighting ramped up in September , with daily missile barrages on the entire north , people were terrified of driving , fearing they 'd be caught on the roads without shelter . <p> Yet if the ceasefire holds , Mr. Yaacovi says , and a new sense of normalcy replaces the dread from the sirens and booms of air defense systems intercepting rockets overhead , he has an optimistic assessment : " By this summer , I hope we will see most people moved back . " <h> " My heart definitely wants to come back " <p> Five miles west of Dafna is the working-class city of Kiryat Shmona . Today it feels like a ghost town , its businesses shuttered and playgrounds and streets empty . <p> On the second floor of a building where three generations of Achi Natan 's family live , a children 's room lies in tatters from a missile . <p> Dina Kraft <p> Achi Natan stands in front of his home , which was damaged by a Hezbollah missile , in Kiryat Shmona , Israel . He is doing his military reserve duty in the local security force . <p> Mr. Natan , a musician doing his military reserve duty in the local security force , says he will never leave this place that his family has called home for decades . <p> He was named for his father 's brother , who was killed fighting in the 1982 war . Yet he expects , regardless of what this ceasefire brings , that his sons and grandsons will also have to fight in Lebanon . <p> At the site of a direct missile hit on a shed that lit an adjacent apartment block ablaze , the smell of smoke still lingers four months later . <p> " My heart definitely wants to come back , " he adds , pausing . He explains that his wife is hesitant about bringing their baby daughter and toddler son here . " There has not been a day we have not talked about it , cried about it -- it 's complicated . " <p> The night before , though , he slept in his own bed for the first time in six months . " It feels like home ; it 's magical -- the place I want to come back to . " <p> You 've read of free articles . Subscribe to continue . <h> Help fund Monitor journalism for $11/ month <p> Monitor journalism changes lives because we open that too-small box that most people think they live in . We believe news can and should expand a sense of identity and possibility beyond narrow conventional expectations . <h> Digital subscription includes : <p> What is the Monitor difference ? Tackling the tough headlines -- with humanity . Listening to sources -- with respect . Seeing the story that others are missing by reporting what so often gets overlooked : the values that connect us . That 's Monitor reporting -- news that changes how you see the world . <p> About a year ago , I happened upon this statement about the Monitor in the Harvard Business Review -- under the charming heading of " do things that do n't interest you " : <p> " Many things that end up " being meaningful , writes social scientist Joseph Grenny , " have come from conference workshops , articles , or online videos that began as a chore and ended with an insight . My work in Kenya , for example , was heavily influenced by a Christian Science Monitor article I had forced myself to read 10 years earlier . Sometimes , we call things ' boring ' simply because they lie outside the box we are currently in . " <p> If you were to come up with a punchline to a joke about the Monitor , that would probably be it . We 're seen as being global , fair , insightful , and perhaps a bit too earnest . We 're the bran muffin of journalism . <p> But you know what ? We change lives . And I 'm going to argue that we change lives precisely because we force open that too-small box that most human beings think they live in . <p> The Monitor is a peculiar little publication that 's hard for the world to figure out . We 're run by a church , but we 're not only for church members and we 're not about converting people . We 're known as being fair even as the world becomes as polarized as at any time since the newspaper 's founding in 1908 . <p> We have a mission beyond circulation , we want to bridge divides . We 're about kicking down the door of thought everywhere and saying , " You are bigger and more capable than you realize . And we can prove it . " <p> If you 're looking for bran muffin journalism , you can subscribe to the Monitor for $15 . You 'll get the Monitor Weekly magazine , the Monitor Daily email , and unlimited access to CSMonitor.com. 
@@118754718 <h> ' Post ' visits Syria in first Israeli media visit since 1974 <h> Hagari : No advance on Damascus , only buffer zone until Syria becomes more stable . <p> JPost Military Correspondent Yonah Jeremy Bob reports on the ground in Syria following the fall of the Assad regime , December 11 , 2024 ( YONAH JEREMY BOB ) <p> The Jerusalem Post , on Wednesday , participated in a dramatic visit to an abandoned Syrian base at Tel Kudne in southern Syria , embedded with the IDF , as part of the first Israeli media visit to that country since the 1973-4 Yom Kippur War and armistice . <p> To the Post 's best knowledge , the last time an affiliated reporter visited Syria , was Abraham Rabinowitz , who visited multiple times between the end of the 1973 Yom Kippur War and the 1974 armistice . <p> Standing on the top of Tel Kudne , which was the site of an intense battle during the 1973 War , the Post was able to see nearby the village of Kudne below as well as the village of Jaba , and other Syrian villages and hills deeper into the distance . <p> Looking to the Israeli side of the border , I was able to see Alonei Habashan and Keshet , which are slightly east of the Gamla National Park and Katzrin in the Golan . An abandoned Syrian military outpost used by the Assad regime , December 11 , 2024 ( credit : YONAH JEREMY BOB ) <p> The Post approached the Syrian base at Tel Kudne on an extremely bumpy road in a Sandcat Tigris , a small armored vehicle , winding through the Kudne village for a couple of kilometers , which was almost entirely deserted . <p> During the couple hours that the Post was in Syrian territory , I only saw one Syrian civilian and not a single Syrian soldier despite having a 360-view of several kilometers around the area . <p> IDF sources said that the country 's new rulers , the Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , have not yet had the time to send any forces to the southern border , being that they invaded Damascus from the North and were also themselves surprised at how quickly they advanced . <p> The base appeared rundown and poorly kept , which would not necessarily be presumed , given that the IDF said that the Syrian soldiers manning the base only fled from it on Friday , less than a week ago . <p> Sources from the IDF said that the state of the base and its weaponry was more poorly kept than bases belonging to Hamas and Hezbollah , which the IDF has recently overrun . <p> JPost Military Correspondent Yonah Jeremy Bob reports on the ground in Syria following the fall of the Assad regime , December 11 , 2024 ( YONAH JEREMY BOB ) <p> IDF Division 210 managed to capture a number of Syrian tanks and other abandoned weaponry when they invaded on Saturday . <p> Brig . Gen. Yair Palai commands Division 210 as part of the Northern Command but was also involved during the current war in fighting in central Gaza and other places . <p> The top of the mountain was surrounded by an approximately two-meter-deep trench to provide cover for the defending Syrian forces , with several sniper and lookout windows that could provide the Syrian soldiers an advantage against any invaders lower down the mountain . <h> Stopping terror <p> At Tel Kudne , IDF Chief Spokesman Daniel Hagari told the Post , " We are here in an abandoned Syrian base in the buffer zone . The only reason we are here is to prevent terror from entering into the buffer zone . " <p> An abandoned Syrian military outpost used by the Assad regime , December 11 , 2024 ( credit : YONAH JEREMY BOB ) <p> " A couple of days ago , regarding one of the UN bases of UNDOF here : we have prevented a terror attack on an UNDOF base , " continued Hagari . <p> Further , he told the Post , " The IDF is now controlling several points in this buffer zone to make sure that the Israeli border on that side gesturing with his hand is safe . This is the only reason we are here . " Israeli forces fortifying defenses along the Syrian border , December 11 , 2024 ( credit : YONAH JEREMY BOB ) <h> IDF not planning to head to Damascus <p> " There have been rumors yesterday that our tanks are heading to Damascus . This is fake . We are only in the buffer zone , making sure that the Israeli border is safe , and we will keep on doing this in this time . This area of Syria is not stable . We need make sure that our border is safe , " he added . <p> IDF Spokesperson Daniel Hagari talks to The Jerusalem Post in Syria following the fall of the Assad regime , December 11 , 2024 ( YONAH JEREMY BOB ) . <p> A picture of Bashar al-Assad and an abandoned Syrian military outpost , December 11 , 2024 ( credit : YONAH JEREMY BOB ) <h> An open-ended withdrawal date <p> Despite Hagari 's guarantees that the IDF has no intention of occupying Syria indefinitely , IDF sources and government sources have left the withdrawal date open-ended and to be based on when Israel feels there is no significant threat from HTS . <p> It is unclear exactly how such an understanding will be achieved given that it is highly unlikely that HTS would normalize relations with Israel , viewed still by most of the Arab world as a hostile state , though Israel has normalized relations with six Muslim countries . <p> Previously , the Israeli-Syrian border had been mainly quiet with an indefinite state of war in a formal sense , but with an informal understanding that Syrian forces had no chance to successfully combat the IDF , such that they would not actually invade . <p> IDF sources were far from sure whether HTS , which has significant jihadist elements and was previously affiliated with al-Qaeda , will keep as quiet a border with Israel . <p> On the other hand , IDF sources said that they have already had contacts with HTS-affiliated officials on smaller issues . <p> For example , after some Syrian rebels attacked a UN site and stole some UN items , IDF officials were able to relay messages to higher up HTS affiliated officials , leading to the stolen items being returned within a relatively short time . <p> IDF 474 Brigade Commander Col. Benny Katah was in high spirits about the achievements of his forces to date in taking over the buffer zone near Israel 's border to provide extra insurance of security should the HTS group decide to be more actively hostile to Israel then the previous Assad regime . <p> Despite all of the caution , IDF sources were positive about Iranian forces leaving Syria in large numbers . <p> They said that only a smaller group of Iranian forces remain compared to before the fall of the Assad regime -- something which had continuously worried Israeli officials for over a decade . <p> The Post also visited the site of where a series of large Israeli construction vehicles and bulldozers are hard at work digging deep trenches slightly into Syrian territory to establish an additional small security zone which will be hard to cross for potential invaders . <p> IDF sources at first said that the trench was so deep and that some obstacles and large rocks placed at critical junctures were so large that potential invaders simply would not be able to penetrate them . <p> Pressed that Hamas had used bulldozers in such instances to invade Israel on October 7 , 2023 , and that potential Syrian invaders could do the same , IDF sources acknowledged no defense was foolproof but said that the new trenches would even , in a worst-case scenario , significantly slow any invaders down , giving more time to defend Jewish border villages . <p> Israel has been digging some trenches quietly for some time , but the newest ones are larger and deeper into Israeli territory , though still not very deep into Syria . 
@@118787012 <h> ' First , set fire to their synagogues ' <p> The gutted interior of Melbourne 's Adass Israel Synagogue . There is a long and painful history of antisemites putting Jewish houses of worship to the flames.wccubbison via X <p> Shortly after 4 a.m. on Friday , two people in masks were spotted dousing the main entrance of the Adass Israel Synagogue in Melbourne , one of Australia 's largest and busiest shuls , with gasoline . Moments later , the building was set on fire and rapidly became an inferno . At that very early hour , only a few men were in the sanctuary ; they had come to study before morning prayers began two hours later . They realized what was happening when they heard glass shattering and were able to get out of the building through a rear door , though one suffered burns to his hand and two had to be hospitalized for smoke inhalation . Had the arsonists struck an hour later , far more people would have been inside . There is no telling how many might have died . <p> The damage was massive . Much of the interior was gutted . Many religious books were turned to ash . It took 60 firefighters and 17 trucks to put out the fire . At least six Torah scrolls -- the most venerated objects in Jewish worship ; each one typically takes 12-18 months to write -- were damaged by heat and water . <p> Adass Israel was founded after World War II . Many of its first congregants were European immigrants who had survived the Holocaust . Rebuilding their lives following the Nazi nightmare in which one-third of the world 's Jews were murdered , they would have remembered only too vividly the smashing and burning of synagogues across Germany and Austria in November 1938 -- the Kristallnacht pogrom that foreshadowed the genocidal whirlwind to come . <p> To Jews of that era , born in a world where antisemitic violence and destruction was not only routine but often promoted by political and religious leaders , it would not have come as a bolt from the blue that Jew-hating arsonists would attack a synagogue . Not so for the 21st-century Jews of Melbourne , some of whom naively believed that in civilized societies , such atrocities are no longer possible . <p> " I 'm shocked , just absolutely shocked , " Benjamin Klein , an Adass Israel board member , told Australia 's 9News TV network . " We did n't think it will happen here in Melbourne to us . We 're a quiet community . We have our heads down , we do n't bother anybody , we wish everybody well . " Klein practices strict Orthodox Judaism , but there was a similar reaction from less religious Australian Jews . Benjamin Preiss , a Melbourne newspaper editor and a self-described " largely secular " Jew , wrote in a column Monday that even as he was covering the burning of the Adass Israel synagogue , " I struggled to believe that anyone in Australia would so brazenly target a place of peaceful prayer . The fact that there were people inside at the time of the attack makes it all the more sickening . " <p> Advertisement <p> Yet there had been no shortage of reminders for Australia 's Jews , especially since Oct. 7 , 2023 , that many of their fellow Australians hate them . Just two days after the worst slaughter of Jews since the Holocaust , a mob of Hamas supporters rallied in front of the Sydney Opera House , waving Palestinian flags and yelling " F*ck the Jews " and " Gas the Jews . " Last week the Executive Council of Australian Jewry reported that almost 2,100 anti-Jewish incidents had occurred in the 12 months following Oct. 7 -- a fourfold increase from the year before . " With a few honorable exceptions , " the council noted , " the response from political and community leaders , university executives , and civil society has been tepid at best . The result has been a ratcheting up of antisemitism from hateful words to steadily more serious hateful actions . " <p> The burning of synagogues is one of the oldest evils perpetrated against Jews . Long before there was a Third Reich or a modern state of Israel , those who hated the Jewish people often expressed that hatred by setting ablaze the places where Jews gathered to pray . <p> Advertisement <p> The historian Robert Wistrich , in his sweeping history of antisemitism , " A Lethal Obsession , " describes the fourth-century Church father St. John Chrysostom , who " justified the burning down of synagogues " on the grounds that they were " a temple of demons devoted to idolatrous cults , a criminal assembly of Jews ... a gulf and abyss of perdition . " Chrysostom 's contemporary , St. Ambrose of Milan , shared that view . When a synagogue in Mesopotamia was burned down in 388 at the instigation of the local bishop , the Roman emperor Theodosius ordered that it be rebuilt at the expense of those responsible . An outraged Ambrose argued forcefully that the order should be rescinded . No Christian should be punished for burning a synagogue , he declared , since any building where Jews worshiped was " a home of unbelief , a house of impiety , a receptacle of folly which God himself has condemned . " <p> When the First Crusade reached the Holy Land in 1099 , recounted Simon Sebag Montefiore in " Jerusalem : The Biography , " they fought not just the ruling Muslims but also the beleaguered and powerless Jewish community . " The Jews sought refuge in their synagogues , but the Crusaders set them on fire , " Montefiore wrote . " The Jews were burned alive , almost a climactic burnt offering in Christ 's name . " <p> Martin Luther , the central figure of the Protestant Reformation , was one of history 's great antisemites . In an infamous 1543 treatise , " On the Jews and Their Lies , " he offered his " sincere advice " for dealing with " this rejected and condemned people , the Jews . " His list of recommendations began : " First , set fire to their synagogues or schools and bury and cover with dirt whatever will not burn . " <p> Even when Jewish communities have ceased to exist , the synagogues they leave behind have been destroyed by arsonists . In 2005 , Israel ended its occupation of the Gaza Strip , unilaterally turning over the entire territory to the Palestinian Authority , dismantling the 21 settlements that had been built there and removing the 9,000 Jewish residents who had lived in them . But they left the synagogues intact . The buildings were both sacred and beautiful , and Israelis did n't have the heart to flatten them . It was thought that even if the former synagogues would no longer be used for Jewish prayer , the Palestinians could put them to good use -- as community centers , perhaps , or office facilities , municipal buildings , or schools . <p> But upon taking over the land that Israel had voluntarily relinquished , the very first thing the Palestinians did was to put the synagogues to the torch . " Gaza 's night sky turned orange as fires roared across the settlements , " the Associated Press reported . " Women ululated , teens set off fireworks , and crowds chanted ' God is great . ' " <p> There will be more . As overt antisemitism becomes increasingly normalized , the hate crimes will continue to pile up . More Jews will be menaced and assaulted , more antisemitism will be pumped into social media , more cities will experience " Jew hunts " -- and more synagogues will go up in flames . The blood-dimmed tide is loosed , to borrow Yeats 's phrase . Our world is deeply disordered and increasingly out of control . Something truly frightful is coming . Jews , as always the canary in the coal mine , are the first to be targeted . But they wo n't be the last . 
@@118788104 <h> Biden aides in Middle East in diplomatic push for Syria , Gaza <p> US Secretary of State Antony Blinken walks with the US ambassador to Jordan , Yael Lempert , after arriving in the Red Sea city of Aqaba on December 12 , 2024 . Andrew Caballero/Pool via AFP <p> Published On 12 Dec 202412 Dec 2024 <p> <p> Updated : <p> 5 hours ago <p> US Secretary of State Antony Blinken has met Jordan 's King Abdullah as President Joe Biden 's outgoing administration pushes for an inclusive transition in neighbouring Syria following the overthrow of Bashar al-Assad . <p> The top US diplomat is in the region to seek support and establish a unified approach for principles that Washington hopes will guide the political transition in Syria after the toppling of longtime ruler al-Assad . <p> " It should be inclusive , non-sectarian , " Blinken told reporters on Thursday in Aqaba , Jordan , describing the criteria for the transition process . " It 's got to uphold and protect the rights of all Syrians , including minorities , including women , " he said , moments before departing for Ankara , Turkiye . <p> US Secretary of State Antony Blinken speaks to reporters on the tarmac before his departure from King Hussein International Airport Andrew Caballero-Reynolds/Pool via Reuters <p> Blinken also said that the role of the US-backed , Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces ( SDF ) group was " critical " to preventing a resurgence of ISIS ( ISIL ) in Syria . <p> " At a time when we want to see this transition ... to a better way forward for Syria , part of that also has to be ensuring that ISIS does n't rear its ugly head again , " Blinken noted . <p> " Critical to making sure that does n't happen are the so-called SDF , the Syrian Democratic Forces , " he added . <p> Advertisement <p> Announcing the trip , the State Department said Blinken would call for a Syria that is not " a base of terrorism or posing a threat to its neighbours " -- a nod to the concerns of Israel and Turkiye . <p> Since al-Assad 's flight to Russia on Sunday , Israel has attacked Syria hundreds of times , hitting airports , air defence facilities and other infrastructure , and deploying its military to the buffer zone along the occupied Golan Heights separating Syria and Israel since 1974 . <p> Turkiye , for its part , has funded Syrian rebel fighters -- known as the Syrian National Army ( SNA ) -- to battle the SDF , pushing the group out of the northeastern city of Manbij . <p> Istanbul views the force as an extension of the banned Kurdistan Workers ' Party ( PKK ) that has led a decades-long insurgency against the Turkish state , effectively blacklisting the SDF as a " terrorist " group . <p> Washington has acknowledged Ankara 's right to defend itself from what it perceives as a security threat , but has also said it will continue working with the SDF . <p> " Turkey has a real and clear interest , particularly when it comes to the PKK and terrorism , which is an enduring threat to Turkey , " Blinken said . " At the same time , again , we want to avoid sparking any kinds of additional conflicts inside of Syria . " <p> Blinken 's diplomatic push on Syria comes as leaders of the Group of Seven ( G7 ) major democracies issued a statement emphasising that al-Assad should be held accountable for his crimes . <h> Sullivan says Israel ' stronger ' <p> Advertisement <p> In parallel with Blinken 's tour , National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan was in Jerusalem to meet Israeli leaders on Thursday , before scheduled visits to Qatar and Egypt . <p> Sullivan said that Israel had emerged " stronger " from more than 14 months of war it launched in response to a Hamas-led attack on southern Israel on October 7 , 2023 . <p> " We will make sure that Hamas can never threaten Israel in the way it did on October 7 , ever , " Sullivan told a news conference at the US embassy in Jerusalem , referring to the date of the attack last year , adding that " the balance of power in the Middle East has changed significantly ... Israel is stronger , Iran is weaker , its proxies decimated " . <p> Both Blinken and Sullivan will be trying to make progress towards a deal to end the 14-month war in Gaza and win the release of the remaining captives held there by Palestinian armed group Hamas . <p> The Biden administration hopes that the recent ceasefire agreement between Israel and Iran-aligned Lebanese armed group Hezbollah , combined with the removal of Tehran ally al-Assad could help build momentum towards a Gaza deal after months of unsuccessful diplomacy . <p> The high-level tours come in the last days of Biden 's presidency , with former President Donald Trump returning to the White House on January 20 . <p> However , it is unclear whether Biden has enough leverage in the region to secure major deals before he leaves office . <p> Hamas wants an end to the war before the captives are released but Netanyahu has insisted that it reserves the right to carry out military operations . Israel also does not want Hamas to govern Gaza . <p> Advertisement <p> Trump warned last week there would be " hell to pay " in the Middle East if captives held in Gaza were not released before his January inauguration . <p> On Tuesday , White House national security spokesperson John Kirby applied pressure for a deal , saying Hamas was " increasingly isolated " and should realise the " cavalry is not coming to rescue them " . 
@@118788109 <p> People holding banners and Palestinian flags march during a pro-Palestinian protest at Shannon Airport , Clare County in Ireland on October 12 , 2024 Anadolu <p> Today , Ireland is a country reckoning with the cost and consequences of abandoning its ideals for economic gain . Since freeing 26 of its 32 counties from British rule more than 100 years ago , Ireland has moved away from its socialist roots and embraced neoliberalism . This change in ideology paved the way for it to become one of the richest countries in Europe but also left it unable to uphold some of its core principles moulded by the nation 's centuries-long struggle against occupation and oppression . <p> Over the years , Ireland did everything in its power to make itself attractive to large multinationals . Its low corporate tax , coupled with its status as the only English-speaking nation in the European Union , has made it a haven for foreign direct investment . The American Chamber of Commerce recently named it the " global location of choice for talent and innovation " . Its windfall corporate tax income -- including the $14bn it recently received from Apple -- has filled the nation 's coffers . <p> Ireland has made the economy its primary focus and built great wealth as a result . But it also appears to have lost something important in the process : the freedom to fully stand up for its convictions on the global stage . <p> Advertisement <p> Ireland owes much of its current economic success to the United States . Today there are more than 960 US corporations doing business in and running their global or regional books through the country . These companies directly employ more than 210,000 Irish citizens and indirectly support a further 168,000 Irish jobs -- which together amount to some 15 percent of the Irish workforce . Just 10 multinationals -- all of them US-based tech and pharmaceutical companies- accounted for 60 percent of Ireland 's corporate tax income in 2022 . <p> There is no question that Ireland is economically dependent on the US , but does this mean it is also politically beholden to it ? Does its disproportionate stake in its economy give the US inordinate power over Ireland 's geopolitical strategy ? <p> The Irish state 's jarring refusal to do everything it can to counter Israel 's ongoing US-funded and facilitated war on Gaza , despite acknowledging the unshakeable support an overwhelming majority of Irish people have for Palestinians and their liberation struggle , informs us that the answer to both these questions is a resounding yes . <p> On the surface , every political faction in Ireland , including Fianna F ? il and Fine Gael -- which have governed Ireland since independence , and are expected to form another coalition government after collectively securing some 40 percent of the vote in last month 's general election -- have strong pro-Palestinian credentials that are in line with the public 's convictions . <p> At a pre-election debate on November 18 , all of the country 's leading politicians across the political spectrum made it clear that they understand where Irish people stand on the Palestinian issue . They all enthusiastically pledged their commitment to support Palestine and help it resist Israel 's efforts to continue and expand its illegal occupation of its territory in every way they can . But the moment of unity broke quickly when those in the opposition pointed to the elephant in the room : Ireland has not actually done all that it can to support Palestine . <p> Advertisement <p> Micheal Martin , the Fianna F ? il politician who has been serving as T ? naiste ( deputy prime minister ) , minister for foreign affairs , and minister for defence since December 2022 , tried to talk up Ireland 's track record on the issue , outlining how his government has recognised the state of Palestine , increased funding to UNRWA at a time when other nations were withdrawing funding , and supported South Africa 's genocide case against Israel at the ICJ . He also underlined his government 's friendly relations with Palestinian leaders to defend his position , saying the Palestinian Authority is satisfied with the support it receives from Ireland . <p> Opposition leaders were quick to pounce . Richard Boyd Barrett , the leader of left-wing People Before Profit party , delivered the most memorable blows . He pointed out that Ireland allows US weapons bound for Israel to pass through Irish airspace and that Ireland 's Central Bank continues to sell Israel 's war bonds while it is engaged in what the ICJ described as a " plausible genocide " in Gaza . He also questioned why the government has still not passed the Occupied Territories Bill 2018 , which would see the end of all trade between Ireland and illegal Israeli settlements on occupied Palestinian territory . <p> Representatives of the outgoing government -- who are expected to form a new coalition government any day now -- did not give any reason as to why they repeatedly blocked the bill since it was first tabled at least six years ago . They , however , said after the ICJ 's July ruling that Israel is indeed an illegal occupier guilty of apartheid , they are now ready to act , and if elected back into office , they intend to update and pass the bill . They offered no defence for the central bank 's sale of Israel 's war bonds or the US using Irish airspace to transfer bombs and other weapons to Israel . <p> Advertisement <p> The debate was a moment in which all of Ireland 's disparate positions coalesced into a single clarifying view . Ireland is a natural ally of Palestine . Irish people see in Israel 's occupation of Palestine and ongoing brutal assault on Gaza their own history of living under British occupation and facing relentless colonial aggression . But , the Irish state is not able , or perhaps more accurately is not willing , to do everything it can to stand with Palestine and support its liberation struggle . <p> The debate exposed the contradictions between the Irish government 's words and actions and put the cost and consequences of Ireland 's economic dependence on the US under the spotlight . <p> The section of the debate on Palestinian solidarity raised some pertinent questions : what is stopping Ireland from doing all it can for Palestine ? Could it be that Ireland , getting some 60 percent of its corporate tax from 10 US multinationals , is finding itself unable to take a firm position against Israel because all its actions , including its war on Gaza , are supported wholeheartedly by the US ? <p> Most importantly , what is the true cost of US investment in Ireland ? A lot , it seems . And perhaps more than many people in Ireland realise , are comfortable with , or want to face . <p> Ireland 's tacit support for Israel and by extension its current assault on Palestine go even beyond what was mentioned by left-wing opposition parties at the November 18 debate . Research by Uplift , an Ireland-based independent campaigning organisation , revealed that Ireland increased its dual-use exports to Israel by a factor of almost seven and also doubled its military contracts for drone servicing by an Israeli military-owned agency since the latest war on Gaza began following the Hamas attack on October 7 , 2023 . <p> Advertisement <p> To the attentive observer , it is clear that Ireland is playing both sides on an issue that does n't have two sides . As Amnesty International also confirmed in a detailed report , and the Irish government repeatedly acknowledged , Israel is committing a genocide in Gaza . The law is clear on genocide . All signatories of the Genocide Convention , and Ireland is one , have a responsibility to prevent and punish genocide . <p> Regrettably , that is not what Ireland appears to be doing . <p> So today , as Fianna F ? il and Fine Gael begin their formal talks to form yet another coalition government , Ireland has a lot of soul-searching to do . It is becoming increasingly difficult to deny that the country is paying a hidden tax , in the form of being forced to dilute its anti-colonial principles , to maintain the economic backing and investment it receives from the United States . As the destruction of Palestine with the full support of Ireland 's primary investor continues , the people of Ireland need to decide whether they are truly happy with this state of affairs . If they are not , next time they are at the ballot box , they should vote strategically to take power away from the two parties that put the nation on this neoliberal path , moved it away from its socialist roots , and as a result , hollowed out its expressions of solidarity with the oppressed across the globe . This may be the most important decision Irish people will have to make -- because what is at stake is the very soul of Ireland . <p> The views expressed in this article are the author 's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera 's editorial stance . 
@@118788118 <p> The United Nations General Assembly ( UNGA ) has voted for an immediate , unconditional and permanent ceasefire in the Gaza Strip . <p> The resolution was approved by 158 votes in favour out of the 193-member assembly on Wednesday , with nine votes against and 13 abstentions . <p> Notably , it also marked the first time that Germany and Italy voted in favour of a ceasefire in Gaza . As a result , the United States is the only country in the Group of Seven ( G7 ) major industrialised nations that continues to oppose it . <p> General Assembly resolutions are not legally binding , but they hold political significance , representing the global opinion on Israel 's war in Gaza . <p> Here is a breakdown of how each country voted in the UNGA in New York City on Wednesday : 
@@118788802 <h> ' Getting even ' brings war without end <p> Posted December 11 , 2024 9:01 pm <p> The war with Israel and Gaza and now Lebanon is still going on . The two truces with Lebanon were broken by both sides . With two cultures believing in " A tooth for a tooth and an eye for an eye , " I see no end to the war . <p> Each side gets " even " for the last outrage . You ca n't kill over 40,000 people without killing the 100 hostages . All that will happen is that the surviving children will grow up to " get even . " It will never end . <p> Guidelines : Keep it civil and on topic ; no profanity , vulgarity , slurs or personal attacks . People who harass others or joke about tragedies will be blocked . If a comment violates these standards or our terms of service , click the " flag " link in the lower-right corner of the comment box . To find our more , read our FAQ. 
@@118790701 <p> How can the United States take advantage of the great but tricky strategic opportunity that the fall of Bashar Assad 's tyranny in Damascus offers us ? Mainly through a combination of meaningful incentives for , and credible threats against , our enemies , frenemies , allies and would-be friends . Let 's go down the list . <h> Syria <p> The large question hanging over our Syria policy is whether the rebel group chiefly responsible for toppling the Assad regime , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , or Organization for the Liberation of the Levant , is sincere in its renunciation of terrorism and Taliban-style Islamism . The Biden administration can offer an immediate gesture of goodwill by lifting the State Department 's $10 million reward for Abu Mohammed al-Golani , the HTS leader . <p> But U.S. sanctions on Syria , and HTS ' status as a designated terrorist organization , should be lifted only on conditional bases . Will Syria 's new rulers allow freedom of worship for religious minorities and freedom of dress for women ? Will they accept the de facto autonomy of Syria 's Kurds ? Will they cooperate with international efforts to destroy the Islamic State group ? If HTS really wants to cement a different relationship with Washington , it can also demand Russia 's military withdrawal from Syria , much as Egypt 's Anwar Sadat did in the 1970s . <h> Lebanon <p> " If we lose Syria , then we will no longer have Hezbollah . " That prediction about the terrorist militia came from Soheil Karimi , a hard-line Iranian commentator . Already decimated by Israel , Hezbollah will struggle to survive as Lebanon 's dominant political entity if it does n't have an easy way to rearm itself . It 's in the interests of Israel , the United States and the Lebanese people that Hezbollah 's 40-plus-year reign of ruin end . <p> How ? The legal basis is full application of the U.N . Security Council 's Resolution 1701 , which insists " there will be no weapons or authority in Lebanon other than that of the Lebanese state . " Hezbollah has brazenly flouted the demand for 18 years . Donald Trump can help enforce it by declaring in one of his social media posts that he will not consider Israel bound to honor its ceasefire deal with Hezbollah until the group fully disarms . <p> Ultimately , Hezbollah should be put to a fundamental choice : Participate in Lebanese politics as a normal political party that plays by the rules or face further military humiliation at the hands of the Zionist enemy . <h> Iran <p> The Islamic republic is now enriching uranium to nearly weapons grade . As with President Joe Biden 's warnings to Hezbollah after Oct. 7 , his message to Iran should be simple : Do n't . <p> As for the next Trump administration , it should present Iran with a choice -- and a dare . The choice , to put it in the colloquial Trumpese , would go something like this : " IF IRAN 'S EVIL LEADERS GO FOR NUKES , WE WILL GO AFTER THEM ! " That is , the regime will put its own existence at risk if it attempts to dash toward a bomb . Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , Iran 's supreme leader , fresh from his many losses , will get the point . <p> The dare is also straightforward : Trump should propose what I 've called " normalization for normalization " as a basis for improved ties with Iran . That is , America offers Iran full normalization of relations , including the lifting of economic sanctions and the reopening of embassies , in exchange for the normalization of Iranian foreign policy : a complete cessation of support for regional terror proxies like the Houthis and Hamas , and an irreversible and verifiable end to Iran 's nuclear program . Khamenei may reject the deal out of hand , since hostility to America lies at the core of the Islamic republic 's ideology , but it will give Iran 's people a standard to aspire to as they take heart from last week 's revolution in Damascus . <h> Gaza <p> In early September , I wrote a column opposing a hostage deal between Israel and Hamas . Part of my reasoning is that Israel could not afford to emerge from the war being perceived , at least by its enemies , as a loser . Since the killings of Hamas ' Yahya Sinwar and Hezbollah 's Hassan Nasrallah , the devastating pager attacks , the destruction of most of Hezbollah 's arsenal and the toppling of Assad , things have changed . <p> Now that Israel is the war 's clear victor , it needs to bring its hostages home . Let Hamas try to rule from the ruins it made . <p> That does n't mean that Israel should cut a weak deal . Above all , it would be a mistake for Israel to agree to bring back the hostages in stages , since it would give Hamas an incentive to raise the price for every additional hostage . Trump can be especially helpful here by informing Hamas ' patrons in Qatar that the United States would revoke Qatar 's status as a major non-NATO ally and move the Al-Udeid air base -- forward headquarters of the U.S. Central Command -- to the United Arab Emirates if all of the hostages are n't released by Jan. 20 . Let the conniving Qataris figure out the rest . <p> Other players ? The Turks will have to be deterred by Washington from trying to use Syria 's revolution as an opportunity to settle scores against the Kurds . That means , especially , maintaining our detachment of forces in eastern Syria . The Saudis will also need to demonstrate regional leadership by helping rebuild Syria and resuming negotiations for diplomatic normalization with Israel . <p> None of this will be simple or straightforward . But the end of Assad 's wretched regime unlocks many doors . 
@@118803510 <p> As Time 's ' Person of the Year , ' Trump outlines his second term agendaIn a wide-ranging and long interview , President-elect Donald Trump tells TIME Magazine his priorities for the first days of his second time at the presidency . <h> As Time 's ' Person of the Year , ' Trump outlines his top priorities in lengthy interview <p> President-elect Donald Trump speaks at the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) after being named Time 's " Person of the Year " for the second time on Thursday in New York . Spencer Platt/Getty Images hide caption <p> toggle caption <p> Spencer Platt/Getty Images <p> President-elect Donald Trump is continuing to outline the opening priorities of his second administration , including pardoning some Jan. 6 defendants , enacting mass deportations and undoing executive actions of his predecessor . <p> Trump sat down for a lengthy interview with Time Magazine after being named its " Person of the Year " for the second time , and he discussed his plans for a second term that at one time seemed improbable . <p> He suggested that the military would be used to carry out deportations on American soil , continuing to call illegal immigration an " invasion of our country . " He suggested the government could get rid of some childhood vaccination requirements and outlined his thoughts on ending ongoing conflict in Ukraine and Gaza , among other topics . <p> Sponsor Message <p> Trump also reflected on his victory against Vice President Kamala Harris last month , touting a " flawless " campaign that " hit the nerve of the country " with a focus on immigration , the economy and other issues that he said resonated more with voters than Democratic messaging . <p> " I do n't think they got the feel of the country , " he said in the interview transcript . Trump also said under his leadership , the Republican Party has become the party of " common sense . " <p> While Trump said in the interview that he has a " massive " mandate after the election , the political reality in Washington is more complicated than the mantle he claims . Even though Republicans will soon control the White House and both chambers of Congress , there are still real hurdles that line the path to enacting his vision . <p> The slim House Republican majority will be made smaller if the Senate confirms Reps . Elise Stefanik for United Nations Ambassador and Mike Waltz as his national security advisor . Other picks for top posts life Defense Secretary , Health and Human Services Secretary and FBI Director have faced higher scrutiny , too . <p> Speaking about being named Time 's Person of the Year while ringing the bell at the New York Stock Exchange Thursday morning , Trump quipped : " I think I like it better this time actually . " <p> Sponsor Message <p> " I do want to thank Time Magazine . I 've been on the cover many times , I do n't know if there 's a record , but I can only talk well about 25% of the covers , " he said , to laughter . " 25% are great , the others I just sort of hide . " 
@@118830200 <p> Pressure from President-elect Donald Trump was a major factor in Hamas relenting on two key issues during cease-fire and hostage-release talks with Israel , a senior administration official told NBC News on Friday . <p> New hope for an agreement had senior Biden administration officials fanning out across the Middle East this week with the goal of closing on a critical pact by the end of 2024 . <p> According to officials who spoke on condition of anonymity because they are not authorized to speak to the media , Hamas has now agreed to Israeli forces staying in the Gaza Strip temporarily after fighting ends and to provide a complete list of hostages , including Americans , who will be released . The Wall Street Journal was the first to report on the concessions Hamas was prepared to make . <p> " There is a confidence we have not seen since May when the president Joe Biden presented his proposal , " the Biden administration official told NBC News , acknowledging that Trump 's warning that he wants to see a deal before he takes office was " a big factor " in recent concessions . <p> Not everybody shared this optimism . <p> " We are not there yet , " another U.S. official warned . <p> Negotiators were " closer " but " we 've been close before so I 'm very cautious . " <p> The Oval Office has only one occupant at a time and Trump wo n't take over until Jan. 20 , but Biden has appeared deferential to letting his successor get involved in negotiations and has not pushed back on his efforts to be engaged in talks . <p> Basem Naim , a member of Hamas ' political wing , told NBC News that he was not aware that the group had recently made concessions during negotiations . <p> This month , Trump wrote on Truth Social : " Everybody is talking about the hostages who are being held so violently , inhumanely , and against the will of the entire world , in the Middle East -- but it 's all talk , and no action ! " <p> " If the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against humanity , " he added . <p> National security adviser Jake Sullivan said Thursday that the Biden administration has had " very good consultation and coordination , " with the incoming Trump team . <p> " We talk to them about how we can send a common message that the United States , no matter who 's sitting in the Oval Office , no matter whose party is in charge , wants to see this ceasefire and hostage deal and see it now , that is all part of the American contribution to an effort to ultimately produce an outcome here , " Sullivan said , speaking from Tel Aviv . " And we 're going to keep working until we get it done . " <p> The latest cease-fire proposal stems from U.S. proposals earlier this year , an Israeli official told NBC News . Both leaders of the Shin Bet internal security agency and Mossad traveled to Cairo in recent weeks to discuss the potential agreement . <p> The U.S. hopes to secure the agreement before the end of the month , Sullivan said Thursday at a news conference in Tel Aviv . Sullivan met with the Qatari prime minister in Doha on Friday and will then travel to Cairo for further discussions on the deal . <p> Secretary of State Antony Blinken , who has traveled to the Middle East more than 10 times since Hamas ' Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack , did not give a timeline . <p> " What we 've seen in the last couple of weeks are more encouraging signs that it a ceasefire is possible , " Blinken said Friday after meeting with his Turkish counterpart . Blinken will discuss the next steps for a future Gaza with his Arab counterparts in Aqaba , Jordan , on Saturday . <p> Negotiations to secure the release of the remaining hostages captured by Hamas during the Oct. 7 attack have languished for months . Around 1,200 people were killed in Israel during the attack . <p> Nearly 45,000 people , more than half of them women and children , have died in Gaza in the war that followed the attack , according to health officials and aid organizations . Much of the Palestinian enclave has been destroyed and a majority of the population driven from their homes . 
@@118831907 <p> Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas visited Italian President Sergio Mattarella on Friday morning at the Quirinale Palace in Rome . <p> According to local media , President Sergio Mattarella expressed concern over the situation in the West Bank and East Jerusalem , highlighting Israeli settlements that contradict UN resolutions and contribute to violence against Palestinians . He reiterated his support for a two-state solution as the path to peace : <p> " We hope for an immediate two-States , two-peoples solution . Without this prospect , there will always be outbreaks of violence " , adding that " once there is a ceasefire in Gaza , the Palestinian Authority will have to play a central role " . <p> According to the Vatican , the pope said " Lebanon is a country , a message , and also a promise to fight for , " following an exchange of gifts in the Clementine Hall of the Apostolic Palace with Mikati gifts in the Clementine Hall of the Apostolic Palace . <p> During the meeting , the Pope emphasised the importance of solidarity among Lebanese officials , especially in the face of the country 's political and economic crises . <p> Lebanon is attempting to rebuild after the ceasefire , which ended the conflict between Hezbollah and Israel last month . The war displaced an estimated 1.2 million people and cost some ? 8.1 billion in damages and losses according to the World Bank . <p> On Thursday , it was Abbas who met with Pope Francis at the Vatican to discuss the Palestinian humanitarian situation . According to local media , Abbas urged Pope Francis to continue advocating for the recognition of the State of Palestine within the international community . 
@@118831912 <p> On a 27-hour train from Florida a month after Donald Trump was voted back into the White House , passengers discussed their hopes and fears for the future . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> The Silver Meteor is one of the longest rail routes in the US , covering 2200km on the country 's east coast . Yet despite its name , an Amtrak guard told Euronews that the train rarely runs faster than 100km/h and generally arrives at least an hour late . <p> Stretching from Miami at the bottom of Florida to New York City in the country 's north , its route crosses several key swing states , including Georgia , North Carolina and Pennsylvania . <p> At the back of the train , furthest from the noisy locomotive , are private cabins and " roomettes " that cost over $2,000 ( ? 1,900 ) ; at the front , you have your " coach class " seats at about a tenth of that . The two sections are divided by a bar , which , over the course of Euronews ' 27-hour journey , was overseen by a 60-year-old woman offering a cutting comment with every drink . <p> Approaching the bar from the back of the train came Linda and Paul , a couple from Melbourne , Florida , travelling to Washington , DC , for their tenth wedding anniversary . Speaking to Euronews over vodka and lemonade , Linda was curious about European perspectives on the election -- her husband less so . <p> " Oh f*** , " he laughs , " are we going to talk about politics ? " <p> After a chiding from Linda -- a firm supporter of defeated Democratic candidate Kamala Harris -- Paul implied he had voted for Trump , but reluctantly , saying that " the last election was about women 's rights , this one was about money . " <p> Speaking as her husband went to get another drink , Linda said she was n't convinced by Paul 's explanation . She said that reproductive rights remained her top issue ( those still matter to around an eighth of all female voters ) . <p> " Whether I accidentally conceive a baby or get raped , whatever the case may be , I want to have a choice to not have that child that I do n't want , " Linda said . " I want to be respected . I work just as hard as my husband , and I still get paid less . " <p> Linda and Paul discuss the result of the election.Gregory Holyoke <p> Despite the majority of women backing Harris , more than a million switched to Trump this election , which left Linda perplexed . <p> " It 's unbelievable . ( Trump ) has no backing for women 's rights . He diminishes them all the time , " she pointed out . <p> Paul returned from the bar , scowling over a comment from the bar manager . As the sun set and the train trundled into northern Florida , the conversation turned to democracy . <p> The former president , now back for his second attempt at the wheel , infamously told voters during the election that " in four years ... we 'll have it fixed so good ; you 're not going to have to vote . " Former advisers have compared him to a " fascist , " warning that he wants to erode democracy for his own ends . <p> Yet Paul was unperturbed by this and insisted his tentative support for Trump did not mean he was indifferent to the importance of democracy -- far from it . <p> " This is not a dictatorship , " he said . " That 's not how our country was founded . " <p> As the train crossed into Georgia , the pair headed off for dinner in their cabin . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> " I know she 's right , " Paul concluded . " Love you , " replied Linda . <h> ' Freakin Muppets ' <p> Sat close by was Mark , a US Air Force Vietnam War veteran and construction worker on his way home to Pennsylvania , drinking a can of beer with " Support the Troops " emblazoned on the side . <p> " I 'm gon na make one statement a lot of these people are n't gon na like it , " he exclaimed , looking around . " F*** Trump . " <p> Lois , a 78-year-old former teacher and banker , looked up from a word game on her phone . <p> " In my area , pretty much , you know , the poor people were for Harris , the rich were for Trump , " he said . <p> Pennsylvania 's 19 Electoral College votes were at the centre of the 2024 election result . No candidate has won the presidency without the state since George W Bush in 2004 ; this time round , Trump won the state by 120,000 votes . <p> Vietnam veteran Mark was no fan of Trump.Greg Holyoke <p> Mark was thankful that the election itself was peaceful but questioned whether that peace would last . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> " He won . I have no problem with that , but I say , within 18 months , there 'll be war . Watch and see . In Korea , Ukraine , the Middle East . " <p> The incoming president has promised to end the war in Ukraine in " one day " and achieve " peace in the Middle East " , offering no details in either case . <p> Lois raised her eyebrows above her cat-eye glasses . " They remind me of little boys fighting with each other , " she said , rolling her eyes . " Then you throw in crackers Kamala . She has the goofiest laugh I ever heard . " <p> Lois declined to which way she voted but said her parents had worked for " the elephant " in her youth , a reference to the Republican logo . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> " Anyway , money talks , bull**** walks , " she concluded , leaving it unclear which candidate she was referencing . <p> " Well , Trump 's still walking , " Mark retorted . <h> A very , very conservative campaign <p> A couple of hours later , the train pulled into Savannah on the border between Georgia and South Carolina . Joining the train were Ocean and Kobe , a young couple working for NGOs in DC , returning from visiting family down south . <p> " I think there 's a part of me that always feels a degree of fear in the South . I feel very on guard , " Kobe said , attributing his nervousness partly to gun culture but also his " liberal bubble " . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> The couple described themselves as being to the left of the Democrats and were not fans of Harris ' campaign -- particularly because she declined to distance herself from the Biden administration 's policy toward Israel and its campaign in Gaza . <p> " Trump 's victory is going to mean that a lot of people are going to suffer more than they otherwise would have . That hurts , " said Kobe . " But I think Harris ' victory would have also meant that a lot of people are going to suffer unjustly . " <p> " People are going to die who should not die . " <p> As some passengers started to drift off to sleep , Julie and Kevin boarded the train with their daughter , followed by their friend Mike . They were heading up from the border of South and North Carolina to New York City , where their daughter would be taking part in a dance parade in Times Square . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> " I was thrilled by the results , " Julie told Euronews . A self-proclaimed " dance mom , " she was among a majority of voters whose top priorities included the economy and immigration . <p> " It 's about getting the prices down , and stopping this situation with the immigrants coming in , " she explained . " They 're getting benefits , they just come in and get $4,500 a month . I really believe if you do n't have a US passport or US citizenship , you should n't be able to just come in and get free money , free services , free education . " <p> As she was talking , a Fox News notification popped up on her phone . <p> Net migration rose to 1.6 million newcomers in 2023 , its highest level in years , and constant coverage of the issue nudged many voters towards Trump . For their part , Democrats pointed out to no avail that the president-elect had openly blocked a bipartisan immigration bill for political gain . ( The vast majority of immigrants do not automatically qualify for public benefits , if at all . ) <p> Mike , a hockey team mascot dressed in a Santa hat , agreed with Julie but also pointed a finger at US citizens he saw as taking advantage of the welfare system . <p> " I do n't want to single out single mothers , but there are people who have another baby just to get more money , " he said . A mother travelling alone with three young children looked over . <p> While all three were happy Trump won , none had complete faith in him or the political system in general . " They both have agendas you see , even that assassination attempt on the incoming president , I think both parties had something to do with that , " said Mike . <p> Julie sighed . " Well things have got to change . I really hope they do . " <p> ADVERTISEMENT <h> ' I cried for days ' <p> In the early hours of the morning , two brothers sat in the bar carriage , surreptitiously drinking cognac on the sly from a children 's SeaWorld bottle covered in dolphins . They were coming to the end of a chess game . <p> " He 's kicking my ass right now , " laughed Carl , a 70-year-old former engineer , as his younger brother Paris took a knight . Both queens were gone , and both kings were vulnerable . <p> Turning to politics , Carl 's smile dissipated . " Man , I cried for days after that election , " he told Euronews , shaking his head . " The thing that hurt most is Trump 's disrespect for the American flag and the American veterans . " <p> Carl says he used to vote Republican in the 1980s , and called John McCain " an American hero " . Yet , he could n't recognise the party anymore . He also believed the assassination attempts on Trump " were staged ... like WWE " . <p> Paris plays chess on the Silver Meteor.Greg Holyoke <p> Paris sadly packed away his chess set . The son of a poll worker , he said he always tried to persuade everyone " voting is sacred " -- but he has n't been successful with his brother . <p> " No , I do n't vote , " the former marine told Euronews , his voice slightly slurred . " I believe they 're going to put in whoever the hell they want , regardless of your vote . If they put a goddamn convicted felon in the goddamn office , your vote never really counts . " <p> At that point , the bar manager walked up . " Is that your own alcohol in that bottle , sir ? " 
@@118832410 <p> NEW YORK -- Veteran documentarian Alex Gibney was n't planning a film about Israel -- until one day last year , when a stunning leak fell into his hands . <p> The leak turned out to be more like a deluge . <p> Suddenly , Gibney , through a source who contacted him on the Signal messaging app , was being offered access to copious video recordings of police interviews with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , his wife , Sara , his son Yair , and a host of associates and benefactors , all conducted as part of the sprawling corruption case against Netanyahu . It amounted to an astonishing 1,000-plus hours of tapes . <p> The Oscar-winning filmmaker did n't speak Hebrew , but sensed this was something big . He turned to longtime Israeli investigative reporter Raviv Drucker , who did a deep dive into the material , Gibney says , and showed him that " we had something that was very explosive . " Then Gibney enlisted colleague Alexis Bloom , who had worked in Israel , to direct . <p> Advertisement <p> The result : " The Bibi Files , " a hard-hitting documentary that certainly has timing on its side -- this week , as it was released on streaming , Netanyahu took the stand in the long-running case . <p> If the timing is fortuitous , the film faced other obstacles . For one thing , Gibney and Bloom had to raise funds without disclosing to potential backers what they had , given the secrecy involved . Many potential backers and distributors were also nervous about getting involved , especially once war broke out after the Hamas-led attack on Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 . <p> Then there was the biggest obstacle of all : The film can not legally be shown in Israel , due to privacy laws regulating such proceedings . <p> Advertisement <p> That does n't mean Israelis are n't seeing it , though . Many have managed to watch the film either by using a VPN to bypass streaming restrictions , or by watching leaked versions that made their way to social media . " The film is being pirated like wildfire in Israel , " says Bloom . <p> And it has made a predictable splash , just as Netanyahu becomes the first sitting Israeli leader to take the stand as a criminal defendant . On Tuesday , he promised defiantly to knock down the " absurd " corruption allegations against him . <p> The longest-serving prime minister in Israel 's history is charged with fraud , breach of trust and accepting bribes in three separate cases . He is accused of accepting tens of thousands of dollars ' worth of cigars and champagne from a billionaire Hollywood producer in exchange for assistance with personal and business interests , and of promoting advantageous regulations for media moguls in exchange for favorable coverage . <p> Advertisement <p> In the leaked police videos , the 75-year-old leader sits at his desk in a surprisingly cramped office , a map of the region behind him . He expresses outrage at the proceedings , calls witnesses liars , and notes he has much weightier matters to attend to . At one point , asked about numbers of champagne bottles , he says he spends his time counting missiles threatening Israel , not bottles . Frequently , his answer is he does n't remember . <p> " We have a number of people on the record telling us what a great memory he has , " says Gibney . " And almost every question that could be possibly incriminating , he says ' I ca n't recall . ' " <p> Reviews in Israeli media for " The Bibi Files " have mostly been positive , while noting that Netanyahu is portrayed in a harsh light . Not surprisingly , public reaction reflects longstanding divisions over the polarizing leader . He and his supporters say he 's the subject of a witch hunt orchestrated by a hostile media and biased justice system out to topple his rule . <p> " Netanyahu 's opponents will swear by the film and will only become more convinced that he is corrupt , dizzy with power and leading us to destruction , " Nir Wolf , TV critic for the Netanyahu-friendly Israel Hayom paper , wrote . " His supporters will want to embrace him more . " <p> Netanyahu has also noticed the film . In September , his lawyer asked the country 's attorney general to investigate Drucker , who is a co-producer with Gibney , accusing him of trying to influence the legal proceedings . No investigation has been launched . ( In the film , Drucker notes that Netanyahu has previously sued him three times . ) <p> The film , which intersperses police video with commentary from former officials , Netanyahu associates , journalists and other analysts -- including , frequently , Drucker -- begins with the prime minister sitting for his first interview . <p> Advertisement <p> " With Netanyahu , nothing concentrates his mind more than the sound of the prison gate slammed behind his back , " comments Nimrod Novik , a former advisor to late Prime Minister Shimon Peres . One of Gibney and Bloom 's key arguments will be that Netanyahu 's fear of potential prison time has influenced his policy decisions -- from judicial reform to war . <p> In other footage , Arnon Milchan , the billionaire Hollywood mogul , Netanyahu friend and , more recently , prosecution witness , describes delivering fancy pink champagne on demand for Sara Netanyahu , sometimes toting a cooler himself , as part of an alleged gifts-for-favors scheme . Elsewhere , Sara Netanyahu sits for questioning herself . " How are you not ashamed of yourselves ? " she sharply admonishes the interviewers . She tells them that outside Israel , her husband is justly received as a king . <p> Footage also includes interviews with Israeli American billionaires Sheldon and Miriam Adelson . Sheldon Adelson expresses discomfort with the friendship -- " I do n't think I 'll continue the relationship with them " -- and dismay over the cost of Netanyahu 's preferred Cuban cigars : $1,100 for a box of 10 . <p> And a combative Yair Netanyahu , the couple 's 33-year old son , tells his questioners : " You 're investigating me because the Israeli police has become the Stasi secret police , wanting to overthrow the government . " <p> Director Bloom insists the film is not intended to preach to the choir -- that it is made not for leftist opponents of Netanyahu , but for centrists . <p> Advertisement <p> " You know , a hardcore Bibi-ist is probably going to remain a hardcore Bibi-est , " the director says . " But there are a lot of centrists . ... And it 's very much a portrait of one family . I do n't think it 's anti-Israel , in the slightest . " <p> The filmmakers say they paused after the Oct. 7 attack , trying to figure out how to approach it . As part of the historical context in the film , they include chilling scenes of the raid on Israel and the subsequent war in Gaza . <p> " What was this going to mean ? " Gibney says they wondered . " With a bit of time , it became clear that this tale that we started before Oct. 7 remained a story of corruption -- the size of the corruption kept getting bigger and bigger and bigger . " <p> The film , which began streaming Wednesday on the new service Jolt.film , draws a direct connection between Netanyahu 's legal problems and the war . Through various commentators , it argues that the criminal cases led the prime minister to launch a campaign to weaken the country 's judiciary , which in turn sparked mass protests and divisions that created an image of national weakness and led Hamas to attack . ( Netanyahu rejects all such accusations ) . <p> Bloom says she hopes people will , having watched " The Bibi Files , " consider the idea that " term limits are a good idea . " ( Netanyahu has served a total of 17 years as prime minister . ) <p> And she also hopes they will take away a simple concept . " It 's OK to criticize the prime minister of Israel , and it 's not antisemitic and it 's not anti-Israel , " the director says . " He 's a political leader , like any other . " 
@@118834603 <h> Amid chaos , City Council moves to recess without vote on Chicago 's 2025 budget <h> The budget proposal , now in its third draft , includes increased property taxes , as well as increased costs to park in a Chicago garage , buy a grocery checkout bag and use streaming services <h> By NBC Chicago Staff *Published December 13 , 2024*Updated on December 13 , 2024 at 11:56 am <p> NBC Universal , Inc . <p> As the deadline looms , Chicago Mayor Brandon Johnson has called off Friday 's already delayed , final vote on the city 's 2025 budget proposal , which was set to take place at a City Council meeting . <p> Sources close to aldermen told NBC Chicago the vote was called off early Friday morning , and would likely be moved to next Wednesday . They delay comes as reports say Johnson was short on votes for the latest proposal . Johnson would need 26 votes for the budget to pass . <p> During Friday 's city council meeting , Ald. Jason Irvin called for a motion to recess the vote until 1 p.m . Monday , which passed 32 to 16 . But the move caused shouting and chaos , NBC 5 reporters at City Hall said , with some aldermen disputing rules that would allow the recessed vote . <p> Soon after , Johnson quickly left the floor . <p> The city faces a Dec. 31 deadline to get the budget over the finish line , or risk a reduction in its bond rating . City leaders would also need to agree on the budget to keep necessary programs running and avoid a shutdown . <p> " We have to get this thing done so that we do n't close the city down ... if we do close the city down , we lose money , " said Ald. Walter Burnett , 27th Ward . <p> The budget proposal , now in its third draft , includes increased property taxes , as well as increased costs to park in a Chicago garage , buy a grocery checkout bag and use streaming services . <h> How the budget could impact Chicagoans <p> Though Mayor Brandon Johnson campaigned on not raising property taxes , his budget plan initially included a $300 million property tax increase , which was unanimously rejected by council members on Nov. 14 . He then proposed a property tax increase of $150 million , then finally a third draft of the budget included a $68 million property tax increase instead . The owner of a $450,000 home would pay $136 more each year . <p> In total , the proposed taxes in the budget plan add up to $234 million in additional revenues . That also includes $128 million through upping the rate on personal property leases , an $11 million parking garage tax increase , expanding the congestion surcharge on weekends , plus increasing the tax on streaming services like Netflix and cable TV . <p> The city 's grocery bag tax will increase from 7 cents to 10 cents under the mayor 's plan . <p> " People ca n't avoid a property tax increase . Whether you 're a renter or your homeowner , that 's going to hit you either way , but a bag tax -- that can be avoided if you bring the tote with you to your shopping place , " said Ald. Carlos Ramirez-Rosa . <p> The council has been divided over whether to pass the plan . The city faces a Dec. 31 deadline to approve a new budget or face a reduction in the city 's bond rating . <p> " We 're sticking it to the residents every which way but loose . When you look at all these fines and fees that are being increased in this budget without any real cuts and efficiencies . The people are asking for cuts and efficiencies , " said Ald. Anthony Beale . <p> Two city council committees , finance and budget , narrowly passed the plan this week . The mayor 's allies said Friday 's vote was expected to be close . <p> " How we come together in the next 48 hours will be watched , but I 'm confident we will , " 6th Ward Ald. William Hall said on Wednesday . " There 's a very , very close vote count because there are those who see Chicago being one way and ( those ) seeing it the other way . " <p> Might it even be so close that Johnson has to cast the tie-breaking vote as he did earlier this year on a Gaza ceasefire resolution and last year on an attempt to censure Ramirez-Rosa ? <p> " I think it is that close , and if he is a tiebreaker , I guess he 'd be three for three , " said Ald. Scott Waguespack . <p> If the budget passes , programs will be canceled to make up for the budget shortfall and COVID-19 relief funding running out . Those programs include $31 million in the basic income plan and $29 million cut for small business grants . Johnson has repeatedly pledged no layoffs of city workers . <p> The budget also increases several fines and fees controlled by the city , including vehicle stickers , residential permit parking passes , public vehicle fines , public chauffeurs and pedicab licenses , license fine violations and more . Johnson is also proposing adding additional speed cameras in Chicago to pay for police officer jobs as part of ongoing efforts to comply with the federal consent decree . <p> Ald. Debra Silverstein from the 50th Ward sent a letter to the mayor 's office and council members requesting that the budget vote be concluded by 3 p.m. on Friday because she will leave City Hall at that time to observe the Jewish Sabbath , Shabbat . <p> If the budget does not pass on Friday , expect council members to return to City Hall over the weekend . 
@@118840005 <p> Outgoing New York Democratic Rep. Jamaal Bowman said Friday that he wishes he did not pull the fire alarm in the House office building in September 2023 and tacitly blamed his blowout loss in June 's primary election on Jews . <p> Bowman made the remarks in an interview with NY1 . A member of the far-left " squad " Democrats , Bowman lost the Democratic primary for New York 's 16th district to Westchester County Executive George Latimer by 17 points , an outcome which pundits have attributed in part to Bowman 's antics and his outspoken opposition to Israel given that the district has a sizable population of Jewish Americans . <p> The incident Bowman is referring to occurred in September 2023 , when he famously set off the fire alarm in the House office building just before a key vote on a government funding bill was to take place . Bowman explained himself by saying that he thought pulling the fire alarm would open a nearby door . <p> Bowman then pivoted to talking about Israel and the role his opposition to its war in the Gaza Strip played in his ouster . <p> " My district is a super pro-Israel district . The minute I called for a ceasefire , that was the last straw with many in the district , " Bowman told NY1 . " Because I beat former Congressman Elliot Engel , it was a target on my back from that community since then . " <p> The American Israel Public Affairs Committee ( AIPAC ) poured millions of dollars into Bowman 's primary race against Latimer to defeat Bowman , and Bowman repeatedly railed against AIPAC as a nefarious entity looking to boot him from Congress simply because he opposed Israel . Bowman notably characterized claims that Hamas raped women during the Oct. 7 massacres as " propaganda " in comments that he subsequently walked back . <p> " As a party , you should have never let a right-wing Democrat who 's a bit older challenge Jamaal Bowman in his primary , because that became a public execution for the country to see , " Bowman said , referencing himself in the third-person . " Democrats , you 're going to allow this black man to be attacked in this way , without any pushback , without any recourse ? " <p> All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation , an independent and nonpartisan newswire service , is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience . All republished articles must include our logo , our reporter 's byline and their DCNF affiliation . For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us , please contact **39;3565;TOOLONG . <h> What does Founders Club include ? <p> Readers , <p> Instead of sucking up to the political and corporate powers that dominate America , The Daily Caller is fighting for you -- our readers . We humbly ask you to consider joining us in this fight . <p> Now that millions of readers are rejecting the increasingly biased and even corrupt corporate media and joining us daily , there are powerful forces lined up to stop us : the old guard of the news media hopes to marginalize us ; the big corporate ad agencies want to deprive us of revenue and put us out of business ; senators threaten to have our reporters arrested for asking simple questions ; the big tech platforms want to limit our ability to communicate with you ; and the political party establishments feel threatened by our independence . <p> We do n't complain -- we ca n't stand complainers -- but we do call it how we see it . We have a fight on our hands , and it 's intense . We need your help to smash through the big tech , big media and big government blockade . <p> We 're the insurgent outsiders for a reason : our deep-dive investigations hold the powerful to account . Our original videos undermine their narratives on a daily basis . Even our insistence on having fun infuriates them -- because we wo n't bend the knee to political correctness . <p> One reason we stand apart is because we are not afraid to say we love America . We love her with every fiber of our being , and we think she 's worth saving from today 's craziness . <p> Help us save her . <p> A second reason we stand out is the sheer number of honest responsible reporters we have helped train . We have trained so many solid reporters that they now hold prominent positions at publications across the political spectrum . Hear a rare reasonable voice at a place like CNN ? There 's a good chance they were trained at Daily Caller . Same goes for the numerous Daily Caller alumni dominating the news coverage at outlets such as Fox News , Newsmax , Daily Wire and many others . <p> Simply put , America needs solid reporters fighting to tell the truth or we will never have honest elections or a fair system . We are working tirelessly to make that happen and we are making a difference . <p> Since 2010 , The Daily Caller has grown immensely . We 're in the halls of Congress . We 're in the Oval Office . And we 're in up to 20 million homes every single month . That 's 20 million Americans like you who are impossible to ignore . <p> We can overcome the forces lined up against all of us . This is an important mission but we ca n't do it unless you -- the everyday Americans forgotten by the establishment -- have our back . <p> Please consider becoming a Daily Caller Patriot today , and help us keep doing work that holds politicians , corporations and other leaders accountable . Help us thumb our noses at political correctness . Help us train a new generation of news reporters who will actually tell the truth . And help us remind Americans everywhere that there are millions of us who remain clear-eyed about our country 's greatness . <p> In return for membership , Daily Caller Patriots will be able to read The Daily Caller without any of the ads that we have long used to support our mission . We know the ads drive you crazy . They drive us crazy too . But we need revenue to keep the fight going . If you join us , we will cut out the ads for you and put every Lincoln-headed cent we earn into amplifying our voice , training even more solid reporters , and giving you the ad-free experience and lightning fast website you deserve . <p> Patriots will also be eligible for Patriots Only content , newsletters , chats and live events with our reporters and editors . It 's simple : welcome us into your lives , and we 'll welcome you into ours . 
@@118848112 <p> While the world 's Mideast focus has shifted to Lebanon and Syria , the humanitarian catastrophe in Gaza only gets worse . <p> In the 14 months since Hamas carried out a brutal surprise attack in Israel , killing 1,200 and taking 250 hostages , Israel has decimated the group 's leadership and cadres , blasted its underground tunnel network , and killed at least 45,000 Palestinians -- as many as two-thirds of them civilians . It has also destroyed most of the Gaza Strip 's housing and civilian infrastructure . <p> Advertisement <p> Most of Gaza 's civilians have been forced by fighting and by Israeli orders to relocate from their homes into flimsy tent camps or overcrowded schools and mosques that are never safe from bombing . Hunger is rampant , as Israelis block aid trucks or bar security for those who enter . Most hospitals have been destroyed by Israeli bombs or ground fighting , and the few that remain have no supplies to treat the ill or wounded . <p> Worst of all , Gazans who have remained in the north of the strip , clinging to their damaged homes , are being ordered by Israel to evacuate south , supposedly so that Israeli forces can put down pockets of Hamas resistance . Yet , hard-line Israeli cabinet ministers make clear they want to empty northern Gaza of Palestinians to rebuild Israeli Jewish settlements there -- or even drive the Gazans into Egypt . <p> This Israeli behavior is clearly ethnic cleansing , which is a war crime . Sure , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu denies it . Yet , even his tough former defense minister ( now a Netanyahu critic ) , Moshe Ya'alon , responded bluntly when asked if Israel was " on the way " toward ethnic cleansing . " Why on the way ? " he retorted . " They 're basically cleaning the territory of Arabs . " <p> Unless Israel 's allies and moderate Arab partners pressure Netanyahu to surge supplies to Gazan civilians and halt ethnic cleansing , this behavior will boomerang against Israel and its future security , further destabilizing the Middle East . <p> Western journalists have been almost banned from Gaza , with a few exceptions on official junkets . To get a sense of the worsening conditions in Gaza , I spoke with two American doctors who worked there as volunteers in October for the medical relief agency MedGlobal . <p> Greg Shay , a retired pediatric pulmonologist from Alameda , Calif. , worked at Nasser Hospital in Khan Younis , which has the largest remaining children 's ward in Gaza . He has undertaken 35 medical volunteer missions across the globe , including two in Gaza prior to Oct. 7 , 2023 . <p> " Working in refugee camps around the world , I have been faced with very difficult situations , " he told me . " However , my recent , third trip to Gaza was not only the most devastating and demanding physically , but more overwhelming emotionally . The desolate environment with total destruction of all buildings , homes , roads , electricity , and water , coupled with forced malnutrition and rampant infectious diseases , brings it to an all-new low . " <p> " This was , of course , compounded by the lack of simple medical supplies , medications , soap , and even baby formula , " he said . " The suffering , amputations , and children shot in the head by snipers will live with me forever . " <p> Shay described hugely crowded wards where there was n't room to isolate infectious diseases , and children were so malnourished they could n't resist infections . <p> " The hospitals are flooded with diseases we have n't seen in Gaza , which had a 95% vaccination rate before the war . Kids come in starving , with pneumonia , hepatitis , white phosphorus burns , and we do n't have 80% of the meds that we need . " <p> The children 's cancer ward was bombed , and there is no way to treat cancer cases . The kidney dialysis building was also destroyed by Israeli soldiers , he said , along with ventilators and EKG machines . <p> Yet , entering Gaza , Shay and other volunteers are not permitted to bring in desperately needed medicine or equipment . " The saddest part was that I had all this cystic fibrosis equipment in Amman , Jordan , and I was n't allowed to bring it in . Thirty children died . " <p> I heard equally harrowing stories from Nabeel Rana , a vascular surgeon from Charlotte , N.C. , who served two weeks at Nasser Hospital in Khan Younis and two weeks at Al-Aqsa Hospital in Deir al-Balah , having previously volunteered at Al-Aqsa Hospital from June to July . <p> " Conditions were definitely worse in October , " he told me . " We had no sutures or dressings or gowns . No aid was coming in . " <p> One of his most indelible memories was the children " strewed across the floor " of the emergency room at Al-Aqsa Hospital . " I 've never been in a place where I saw so many kid amputees of all ages , from toddlers to 8 or 9 ... with shrapnel wounds and massive gashes in their heads and limbs . " <p> Rana marveled at the courage of the doctors there , some of whom had lost their entire family in Israeli bomb strikes . And the ambulance drivers who went to retrieve bodies , even though they knew " they were at risk of an Israeli double tap , " meaning a strike at the rescue workers after the initial bombing . <p> These scenes are not just the normal carnage of war , but the product of Israeli targeting of hospitals and medical workers -- and the blockage of food and medical supplies into Gaza . <p> Israeli officials say hospital strikes are necessary because Hamas fighters hide within the facilities . But when Hamas is reeling , and its commanders are gone , it is questionable why medical facilities are still targeted . <p> On Dec. 6 , Israeli strikes killed and wounded scores in and around Kamal Radwan Hospital in northern Gaza , which Israel had earlier ordered be evacuated . Residents in the north still desperately need the barely functioning hospital . Is its potential demise part of the move to make northern Gaza unlivable ? <p> Israeli officials also blame the lack of food and medical supplies on international aid agencies not delivering the goods from trucks lined up at the border . That , also , is only part of the story . <p> Yes , many trucks are waiting to cross , but often because Israel keeps changing the rules . Moreover , aid agencies tell me it is also because Israel has made it impossible to secure the contents , barring Palestinian police from guarding the trucks because they worked for the Gazan government that was run by Hamas before the war . <p> In fact , international aid agencies say the police were mostly professional . Moreover , private citizen groups who volunteer to guard the trucks have also been targeted by Israel . And Israeli troops often stand by as looters attack unprotected aid . <p> " There needs to be some international force approved by all to protect the aid convoys , " I was told by Sean Carroll , the CEO of the U.S.-based aid agency Anera . <p> But as of now , there is no visible Israeli effort to improve the humanitarian disaster in Gaza and surge the aid in . <p> In October , when the entry of food aid virtually stopped , President Joe Biden gave Israel 30 days to improve . He failed to penalize Israel when that period ended , and there was only minimal improvement . <p> Negotiations have begun once more on a temporary cease-fire in Gaza and the return of some Israeli hostages by Hamas . Yet , Netanyahu has made clear that Israeli troops will remain indefinitely in Gaza , and has offered no political plan for how nearly two million dispossessed Gazan civilians can survive . <p> Both Netanyahu and President-elect Donald Trump appear to believe that Saudi Arabia and the Gulf emirates will rebuild the Gaza Strip . But the Saudis have made clear that they are n't interested in so doing if Israel reoccupies and resettles Gaza , which guarantees a new generation of resistance fighters will rise . They want Netanyahu to lay out a path to a concrete political future for the Palestinians . <p> If , instead , this Israeli government insists on ethnically cleansing Gaza ( and the West Bank ) , a long-term Palestinian insurgency will bubble up from the ruins , built from angry young men . That instability will threaten Israel 's future and prevent any normalization with Saudi Arabia . <p> And one day , Israel will no longer be able to prevent foreign journalists from witnessing the wreckage of Gaza that has gone way beyond Israel 's right to defend itself . Those scenes are already alienating a generation in the West against Israel 's very existence . <p> Starving Gazan civilians and denying them medical care is not only a war crime but also a losing strategy for Israel . It needs to be stopped . Now . 
@@118853113 <h> Trump Promised No Wars and Lower Prices . Now He 's Walking That Back <p> Donald Trump walks onto the floor of the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) after being named TIME 's " Person of the Year " for the second time on December 12 , 2024 in New York City.Spencer Platt/Getty Images <p> A promise from Donald Trump is n't worth very much . But the brazenness with which he 's already abandoning some of his key campaign pledges is nonetheless remarkable . <p> In the past week , Trump -- who was elected , in large part , on the premise that he would rescue everyday Americans from the economic ruin Joe Biden supposedly wrought -- has all but admitted he was full of shit . First , he toldMeet the Press last Sunday that he " ca n't guarantee " his tariff plan would n't raise costs for consumers , even though he repeatedly said they would n't . Then , in an interview with Time after being named its Person of the Year -- a distinction he appears to relish almost as much as being elected president -- he acknowledged that it would be " very hard " to actually bring grocery costs down , despite vowing , during his campaign , to " rapidly drive prices down and make America affordable again . " <p> " It 's hard to bring things down once they 're up , " Trump toldTime this week . <p> Well , no kidding ! That , in a nutshell , is what Biden and Kamala Harris were arguing . Trump , by contrast , was essentially telling his supporters that living costs could start coming down on his first day in office : " You just watch , " he said at a North Carolina rally . " They 'll come down fast . " Now , as he approaches his second term with little more than the " concepts of a plan " he touted in his September debate with Harris , he 's far less definitive : " I 'd like to bring them down , " he said . " I think that they will . " <p> Trump did n't only make grand economic promises , of course . He also spent his campaign trying to draw a contrast between himself as a supposed foreign policy dove and a Biden administration navigating polarizing international conflicts in Ukraine and Gaza : " I 'm not going to start wars , " Trump said in his victory speech . " I 'm going to stop wars . " But , when Time asked him about the " chances of going to war with Iran during your next term , " he responded : " Anything can happen . It 's a very volatile situation . " <p> The situation was made more volatile , it should be noted , by his 2018 withdrawal from the Iran nuclear agreement Barack Obama struck in his second term . Iran has pushed to increase its enrichment program since Trump tore up the agreement . Now , as he prepares to take office once again , Trump and his team are considering airstrikes on Iran to contain the country 's nuclear program , the Wall Street Journalreported Friday . It 's possible he 's rattling the saber in an effort to force Tehran to the negotiating table , as he tried to do with North Korea . But a member of Trump 's transition team implied to the Journal that force may be needed against Iran because of the regime 's plot to assassinate Trump , which was outlined in Justice Department charges last month . " That certainly influences everybody 's thinking when it comes to what the relationship is out of the gate , " the transition member said . <p> Trump is full of bluster and hollow assurances -- " We 're not touching " Social Security or Medicare , he insists , despite Republican proposals to do just that -- but there are at least two agenda items he still intends to fulfill : tax cuts for the wealthy and a crackdown on immigration . The former probably wo n't help the working-class Americans who helped him win back the White House based on his economic promises . But , as Trump sees it , his supporters will be satisfied if he fulfills the latter : " What was a bigger factor than the economy , I believe , was the border , " he told Time . <p> And to secure it , Trump said , he would " go as far as I 'm allowed to go , according to the laws of our country " -- including by deploying the military and building more detention camps . " Whatever it takes to get them out , " Trump said of undocumented immigrants . " I do n't care . " <h> Eric Lutz <h> Contributing Editor <p> Eric Lutz is a contributing editor at Vanity Fair , where he has been covering national affairs since 2018 . He chronicles the chaos of Trump era politics , reporting on the issues , ideas , and personalities driving the day . He has also written for publications like The Guardian and Rolling Stone , and serves ... Read more <p> With a standout role in Bad Sisters season two , the veteran actor takes stock of a life lived on stage and screen , from the roles you know to those she 'd prefer you forget : " The Avengers was absolutely a terrible film . " 
@@118869716 <p> Actor Michael Rapaport was so outraged with ousted Rep. Jamaal Bowman ( D-NY ) using his parting words in Congress to call for a " Free Palestine " that he offered to take the far-left pol to the Gaza Strip and leave him in the heart of the Israel-Hamas war . <p> " Since @JamaalBowmanNY @CoriBush are now unemployed &amp; sooooo interested in and fascinated by Gaza , I 'm offering to fly them to ISRAEL &amp; have a SUV drop them off in RAMALLAH , " Rapaport posted on X Friday night , also referencing another lame-duck " Squad " member , Rep. Cori Bush ( D-Mo . ) <p> Jamaal Bowman made a call to " Free Palestine . " Allison **28;707;TOOLONG <p> " 7 Days in Judea Samaria on Me . I will add $150 a day per diem . You guys down ? " the 54-year-old Jewish actor and comedian added . <p> Rapaport , who has railed against Democrats this year in several online rants over Israel , was responding to video of Bowman 's closing statement to Congress this week , which ended with , " Free Palestine ; free The Bronx and free all marginalized people . " 
@@118871715 <p> A Syrian fighter from rebel group , fires towards a poster at the entrance of the notorious security detention centre called Palestine Branch , which pictures the late Syrian President Hafez Assad and his son the ouster Syrian president Bashar Assad , in Damascus , Syria , Saturday , Dec. 14 , 2024 . <p> Turkey 's Foreign Minister Hakan Fidan , left , speaks with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken during a meeting with the foreign ministers of the Arab Contact Group on Syria in Jordan 's southern Red Sea coastal city of Aqaba , Saturday Dec. 14 , 2024 . <p> A torn posters shows the late Syrian President Hafez Assad and his son the ousted Syrian president Bashar Assad , that were set at the entrance of the notorious security detention centre called Palestine Branch , in Damascus , Syria , Saturday , Dec. 14 , 2024 . <p> A Syrian fighter from rebel group , uses his knife to tear a poster at the entrance to the notorious security detention centre called Palestine Branch , which shows the ouster Syrian President Bashar Assad in Damascus , Syria , Saturday , Dec. 14 , 2024 . <p> The United Nations ( UN ) Special Envoy for Syria Geir Pedersen speaks during his meeting with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken in Jordan 's southern Red Sea coastal city of Aqaba , Saturday Dec. 14 , 2024 . <h> Top diplomats from the United States , the Arab League and Turkey are meeting in Jordan to discuss Syria 's transition after the fall of Bashar Assad 's government last weekend <p> A Syrian fighter from rebel group , fires towards a poster at the entrance of the notorious security detention centre called Palestine Branch , which pictures the late Syrian President Hafez Assad and his son the ouster Syrian president Bashar Assad , in Damascus , Syria , Saturday , Dec. 14 , 2024 . <p> Hussein Malla - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Turkey 's Foreign Minister Hakan Fidan , left , speaks with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken during a meeting with the foreign ministers of the Arab Contact Group on Syria in Jordan 's southern Red Sea coastal city of Aqaba , Saturday Dec. 14 , 2024 . <p> A torn posters shows the late Syrian President Hafez Assad and his son the ousted Syrian president Bashar Assad , that were set at the entrance of the notorious security detention centre called Palestine Branch , in Damascus , Syria , Saturday , Dec. 14 , 2024 . <p> Hussein Malla - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> A Syrian fighter from rebel group , uses his knife to tear a poster at the entrance to the notorious security detention centre called Palestine Branch , which shows the ouster Syrian President Bashar Assad in Damascus , Syria , Saturday , Dec. 14 , 2024 . <p> Hussein Malla - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> US Secretary of State Antony Blinken speaks during his meeting with the United Nations ( UN ) Special Envoy for Syria in Jordan 's southern Red Sea coastal city of Aqaba , Saturday Dec. 14 , 2024 . <p> Andrew Caballero-Reynolds - pool , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> The United Nations ( UN ) Special Envoy for Syria Geir Pedersen speaks during his meeting with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken in Jordan 's southern Red Sea coastal city of Aqaba , Saturday Dec. 14 , 2024 . <p> Top diplomats from the United States , the Arab League and Turkey are meeting in Jordan to discuss how to assist Syria 's transition after the fall of Bashar Assad 's government a week ago . <p> U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken joined foreign ministers and senior officials from the European Union and United Nations in Jordan on Saturday to try to find consensus on what Syria 's new leadership should prioritize . No Syrian representatives were set to attend . <p> The collapse of the Assad family 's more than half-century of rule has sparked new fears of instability in a region already shaken by the Israel-Hamas war in Gaza and hostilities between Israel and the Lebanon-based Hezbollah despite a tenuous ceasefire . <p> The U.S. is making a renewed push for a ceasefire in Gaza , where the war has plunged more than 2 million Palestinians into a severe humanitarian crisis . <p> Israel 's war against Hamas has killed over 44,800 Palestinians in Gaza , more than half of them women and children , according to the Gaza Health Ministry , which does not say how many were combatants . The Israeli military says it has killed over 17,000 militants , without providing evidence . <p> The October 2023 Hamas attack that sparked the war killed some 1,200 people in Israel , mostly civilians , and around 250 others were taken hostage . Some 100 hostages are still inside Gaza , at least a third of whom are believed to be dead . <p> Here 's the latest : <h> Turkey reopens its embassy in Syria <p> ISTANBUL -- Turkey reopened its embassy in Syria on Saturday , becoming the first country to do so since the end of Bashar Assad 's rule last weekend . The Syrian insurgents who overthrew Assad had received vital help from Turkey . <p> The Turkish flag was raised above the compound in Damascus for the first time since diplomatic ties were cut in 2012 . The embassy suspended operations 12 years ago due to insecurity during the Syrian civil war . <p> Several countries maintained diplomatic ties with Assad 's government during the 13-year conflict , while others reopened their diplomatic missions in recent years as they sought to normalize relations . <h> US Secretary of State Blinken wrapping up regional tour in Jordan <p> AQABA , Jordan -- U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken says broad consensus exists among regional partners that Syria 's new government must be inclusive , must respect women and minority rights , reject terrorism and secure and destroy suspected Assad-era chemical weapons stockpiles . <p> Blinken is wrapping up a three-country regional tour in Aqaba after visiting Iraq , Turkey and Jordan once already this week . <p> Earlier Saturday in a meeting with U.N . Special Envoy for Syria Geir Pederson , Blinken said he expected to talk about the challenges ahead for Syria and " our determination to work together to support a Syrian-led transition where the United Nations plays a critical role , particularly when it comes to the provision of assistance , to the protection of minorities . " <p> Pederson agreed , saying : " What is so critical in Syria is that we see a credible and inclusive political process that brings together all communities in Syria . And the second point is that we need to make sure that state institutions do not collapse , and that we get in humanitarian assistance as quickly as possible . And if we can achieve that , perhaps there is a new opportunity for the Syrian people . " <p> In announcing Saturday 's meetings , the Jordanian Foreign Ministry said the ministers would " discuss ways to support a comprehensive political process led by Syrians to achieve a transitional process , " which " ensures the reconstruction of Syrian state institutions , and preserves Syria 's unity , territorial integrity , sovereignty , security , stability , and the rights of all its citizens . " <p> Copyright 2024 The Associated Press . All rights reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten or redistributed without permission . <h> Watch this discussion.Stop watching this discussion . <h> ( 0 ) comments <h> Welcome to the discussion . <p> Keep it Clean . Please avoid obscene , vulgar , lewd , racist or sexually-oriented language.PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.Do n't Threaten . Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.Be Truthful . Do n't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.Be Nice . No racism , sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.Be Proactive . Use the ' Report ' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us . We 'd love to hear eyewitness accounts , the history behind an article . 
@@118879104 <h> News outlets failed to distinguish between civilian and combatant casualties , and relied on statistics from the Hamas-run Health Ministry . <p> Palestinians inspect damage at the site of an Israeli strike on a house , amid the Israel-Hamas conflict , at the Nuseirat refugee camp in the central Gaza Strip , December 7 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/Ramadan Abed TPX IMAGES OF THE DAY ) <p> Civilian death counts in the Gaza war have been inflated to portray Israel as deliberately targeting civilians , an independent group of researchers at the Henry Jackson Society found in a study published on Saturday . <p> The study , titled Questionable Counting : Analysing the death toll from the Hamas-run Ministry of Health in Gaza , found that leading global English-language news outlets failed to distinguish between civilian and combatant casualties and relied on statistics from the Hamas-run Health Ministry when reporting on the war in Gaza . <p> Some of the key findings include men listed as women to inflate female fatalities , adults registered as children , disproportionate deaths of fighting-age men , the inclusion of natural deaths in reporting , and media underreporting of combatant deaths . <p> According to the report , this failure contributes to a widespread narrative suggesting that Israel deliberatively targets civilians . <p> The research reveals that despite regular reporting on Gaza casualties , many English-language publications omit the number of combatant casualties , failing to include them in the overall casualty count . Palestinians , including rescuers , search for casualties at the site of an Israeli strike on a house , in Gaza City November 18 , 2024 ( credit : REUTERS/Mahmoud Issa ) <p> When reporting on the Gaza death toll , the Hamas-run Health Ministry does not differentiate between combatant and civilian casualties . <p> Intelligence estimates indicate up to 30,000 Hamas combatants in Gaza , and Israel , which specifically tracks combatant casualties , has stated that over 17,000 Hamas combatants have been killed . <h> Prominent English-language news sources examined <p> Researchers examined eight influential English-language news outlets , including BBC , CNN , The New York Times , The Washington Post , The Guardian , Associated Press , Reuters , and ABC . The research group examined articles mentioning Gaza casualties from February to May 2024 . <p> The dataset comprised 1,378 articles . The analysis was conducted both collectively and individually by publication , with sample sizes ranging from 111 articles ( ABC ) to 246 articles ( The Guardian ) . The maximum confidence interval for our estimated rates is ? 4% . <p> The study found that only 3% of publications cite Israeli data , and Hamas-provided data accounts for 98% of all sources . Few sources scrutinized Hamas figures and treated the terrorist group as an established provider of data . 
@@118879114 <p> President-elect Donald Trump 's Middle East envoy , Steve Witkoff , met with Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman during a visit to Saudi Arabia this past week , according to two sources briefed on the meeting -- the first encounter between MBS and a representative of the incoming Trump administration since the November elections . <p> Trump appointed Witkoff , a close friend and confidant , as his administration 's Middle East envoy with the clear goal of securing a " mega-deal " with Saudi Arabia . <p> Trump reportedly wants the deal to include a historic peace agreement between Israel and Saudi Arabia , as well as progress toward resolving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict , according to sources familiar with his thinking . <p> " I want a long-lasting peace . I 'm not saying that 's a very likely scenario ... I want a peace where we do n't have an October 7 in another three years . I 'd like to see everybody be happy , " Trump told Time earlier this week , in its interview with the incoming president whom the magazine chose as its 2024 " Person of the Year . " <p> Witkoff 's trip was part of a series of meetings Trump advisers have held with Middle Eastern leaders in recent weeks . <p> One source said Witkoff and MBS discussed US-Saudi relations , the war in Gaza , the possibility of normalizing ties with Israel , and other regional issues . <p> Earlier last week , the incoming envoy attended a crypto conference in the UAE . A few months ago , Witkoff and Trump co-founded a cryptocurrency company called World Liberty Financial , Inc . <p> During his visit to Abu Dhabi , Witkoff met with the UAE 's National Security Advisor , Sheikh Tahnoun bin Zayed Al Nahyan , and discussed the war in Gaza , the revolution in Syria , and other regional topics , according to two sources . <p> Trump 's Middle East adviser , Massad Boulos , was also in the region this past week and met with Qatar 's Prime Minister in Doha , a source familiar with the meeting said . Boulos is also the father-in-law of Trump 's daughter , Tiffany . <p> Last Wednesday , Boulos met with King Abdullah of Jordan in Washington , according to another source . <p> That same day , Witkoff and Boulos met in Washington with Strategic Affairs Minister Ron Dermer , a close confidant of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , an Israeli official said . <p> Trump 's newly appointed Special Envoy for Hostage Affairs , Adam Boehler , is expected to visit Israel this week for the first time since his appointment , another senior Israeli official said . <p> The Saudi and UAE embassies in Washington , as well as Witkoff , Boulos , and Trump 's team , declined to comment . <h> Flashback <p> Before the Hamas attack against Israel on October 7 , 2023 , the Biden administration had been negotiating with Saudi Arabia and Israel on a mega-deal that would include a peace agreement between the two nations . <p> The White House also sought to include a US-Saudi defense pact and a civilian nuclear cooperation agreement as part of the deal , believing the Senate might approve it as part of a broader agreement . <p> MBS had concluded that such a mega-deal would only be politically feasible under the Biden administration . <p> However , the October 7 attack derailed negotiations . The ongoing wars in Gaza and Lebanon , combined with Saudi demands for steps toward establishing a Palestinian state , have made the agreement challenging for both Israel and Saudi Arabia in the short term . <p> MBS and his senior advisers have publicly and privately reiterated in recent months that they remain interested in reaching such an agreement but have emphasized Saudi Arabia 's key condition : an Israeli commitment to a clear , irreversible timeline for establishing a Palestinian state . <p> So far , Netanyahu has refused this demand . The prime minister and his senior advisers believe that under Trump , and with Israel 's recent military successes against Iran and its proxies , the Saudis might drop their " Palestinian condition , " according to two sources . <p> In his interview with Time , Trump did not express support for the peace plan he introduced during his first term , which was based on a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . <p> Mark Dubowitz , CEO of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies and a confidant of some of Trump 's foreign policy team , said the president-elect is likely to revive his peace plan as a cornerstone of his Middle East strategy . <p> " This is key for facilitating a peace agreement between Israel and Saudi Arabia . It could also enable the end of the war in Gaza and help implement a day-after reconstruction and security plan with strong Gulf support , " he said . <p> Trump was reportedly frustrated at not winning the Nobel Peace Prize for brokering the Abraham Accords , according to several sources . Dubowitz noted that a mega-deal with Saudi Arabia could boost Trump 's chances of securing the coveted award . 
@@118879115 <h> Syria avoiding Israel conflict , IDF exposes Hamas torture footage <p> By JERUSALEM POST STAFFPalestinian security forces take position during clashes with gunmen in Jenin in the West Bank , December 14 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/RANEEN SAWAFTA ) SORT BY 6 hr 26 min ago <h> Israel has no more excuses for entering Syria , rebel leader Julani says in first major TV interview <h> Julani called for the end of all foreign intervention in Syria in the interest of restabilizing and rebuilding the country . <p> By YUVAL BARNEA Top rebel commander Abu Mohammed al-Julani speaks to a crowd at Ummayad Mosque in Damascus , after Syrian rebels announced that they have ousted President Bashar al-Assad , Syria December 8 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/MAHMOUD HASSANO ) <h> Hamas publishes video of unidentified tattooed hostage <h> The spokesperson for Hamas 's armed wing , Abu Obeida , wrote in a statement on Saturday evening that the IDF struck a place where hostages were held . <p> By JERUSALEM POST STAFF A message at the end of a Hamas video , stating " Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Chief of Staff Herzi Halevi seek to get rid of their prisoners in Gaza by all means. ( photo credit : Screenshot/Hamas Telegram ) <p> Hamas published a video of the body of at least one unidentifiable hostage seen with tattoos in a video to the terror group 's Telegram channel on Saturday evening . <p> The spokesperson for Hamas 's armed wing , Abu Obeida , wrote in a statement on Saturday evening that the IDF struck a place where hostages were held . <p> Abu Obeida said that Hamas intelligence " confirms that the enemy deliberately bombed the place with the aim of killing the prisoners and their guards . " <h> Israel has reportedly rejected the possibility that Marwan Barghouti be released as part of a prisoner-for-hostage exchange . <p> By DANIELLE GREYMAN-KENNARD , JERUSALEM POST STAFF A woman casts a shadow as she walks past a banner calling for the release of the hostages kidnapped during the deadly October 7 , 2023 attack by Hamas , amid the ongoing conflict in Gaza between Israel and Hamas , in Tel Aviv , Israel , December 5 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/Stoyan Nenov TPX IMAGES OF THE DAY ) 
@@118879116 <h> Qassem did say , however , that he hopes the new rulers of Syria see Israel as an enemy and do n't normalize ties with it . <p> HEZBOLLAH LEADER Sheikh Naim Qassem delivers a speech from an unknown location , last week . He appears more hardline and uncompromising than his predecessor , Hassan Nasrallah , who often delivered propaganda-laden speeches devoid of clear strategy , says the writer . ( photo credit : Al Manar TV/Reuters ) <p> Hezbollah head Naim Qassem said on Saturday that the Lebanese armed group had lost its supply route through Syria following the toppling of President Bashar al-Assad nearly a week ago by a sweeping rebel offensive . <p> Qassem did not mention Assad by name in his televised address and said the group could not make a judgment on Syria 's new ruling power until the country stabilizes . <p> Qassem did say , however , that he hopes the new rulers of Syria see Israel as an enemy and do n't normalize ties with it . <p> Qassem also commented on what he perceives to be Israel 's ambitions , saying , " The enemy is thinking of settling in Gaza and annexing the West Bank with cover from America , which supports it with all its capabilities . " <p> " Israeli crimes were aimed at breaking the resistance without succeeding , and Israeli crimes are not an achievement , " he continued . " It is impossible for us to surrender or be humiliated , and this can not happen with the resistance of Hezbollah . " Supporters of Lebanon 's Hezbollah carry a coffin of a person who was killed in violence in Beirut on Thursday , during their funeral in Beirut 's southern suburbs , Lebanon ( credit : MOHAMED AZAKIR/REUTERS ) <h> " Mission accomplished " <p> " We foiled the enemy 's goal of eliminating and crushing the resistance and displaced the settlers . " he continued . <p> Qassem 's speech ended with him saying , " It is important to read this major development in the region , and God willing , the results will be positive , and the resistance will continue , God willing . " 
@@118879117 <h> ' Seize the opportunity ' : Families of hostages rally across Israel to call for hostage deal <h> Thousands of protesters gathered across Israel , including in Tel Aviv , Jerusalem , and Karkur Junction . <p> Demonstrators call for the return of the Gaza hostages in a hostage deal , December 14 , 2024. ( photo credit : AVSHALOM SASSONI/MAARIV ) <p> While speaking at a rally on Saturday night to call for the release of the 100 hostages held by Hamas captivity , Einav Zangauker , mother of hostage Matan Zangauker , called for the end of the war in Gaza and to reach a hostage deal , Israeli media reported . <p> Zangauker said , " Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , seize the opportunity , stop giving in to the extortion of extremists in the government , and put forth an Israeli initiative to end the war in Gaza and achieve a comprehensive deal in one phase - now . " <p> The demonstration , which takes place every Saturday night across different locations in Israel , comes amid Hamas releasing a video of an unidentifiable hostage on the terror group 's Telegram channel . <p> Thousands of protesters gathered across Israel , including in Tel Aviv , Jerusalem , and Karkur Junction , Walla reported . <p> Brig. -Gen. ( res . ) Amir Haskel , a leading figure in demonstrations against the government and for the end of the war in Gaza and the release of the hostages , was arrested while protesting in Jerusalem on Saturday night , Ynet reported . Einav Zangauker , mother of hostage Matan Zangauker , among demonstrators calling for a hostage deal , December 14 , 2024. ( credit : AVSHALOM SASSONI/MAARIV ) <p> As demonstrators began to disperse , a police officer approached Haskel , who was on his way to a bus , and arrested him , Ynet reported . Other protestors tried to prevent his arrest . <h> Police arrest four in Jerusalem <p> During the protest in Jerusalem , where a march took place from the city center to Paris Square , police arrested two protesters , the Israel Police said . <p> Additionally , two other protesters were arrested for trying to prevent the arrest of one of the demonstrators . 
@@118879118 <h> The rising death toll in the clashes could continue to get worse but it could also hint at the PA 's resolve to finally deal with the growing problems in Jenin . <p> Mourners attend the funeral of Palestinian Ribhi Shalabi , who was killed in clashes with Palestinian Authority forces , in Jenin camp in the West Bank , December 10 , 2024. ( photo credit : RANEEN SAWAFTA/REUTERS ) <p> The Palestinian Authority Security Forces have mounted an important operation to try to restore security and order to the northern West Bank 's key city of Jenin . This city has been the site of increasing threats by Iranian-backed Palestinian Islamic Jihad in recent years . <p> A surge in arms trafficking in illegal rifles , primarily M-16 types , has provided the terrorists with large numbers of arms to threaten residents . The arms flow has links to Iran but also to smuggling gangs that operate in the region . In the last year , some smuggling attempts have been thwarted from Jordan . <h> Creating another front <p> The armed terrorists are mostly affiliated with Palestinian Islamic Jihad ( PIJ ) but some of them are linked to other groups like Hamas . The group 's numbers and activities have been on the rise because Iran wants to use Israel 's war in Gaza as a way to increase fighting against Israel in the West Bank and create another front against Israel . <p> It is n't just about Iran . The backers of Hamas in Doha and Ankara also likely want to enflame tensions in the West Bank.Palestinian security forces take position during clashes with gunmen in Jenin in the West Bank , December 14 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/RANEEN SAWAFTA ) <p> Hamas continues to control most of Gaza and holds 100 hostages . Hamas leaders are hosted by Doha and backed by Ankara as well . Both Doha and Ankara are involved in backing the new Syrian government that is emerging and both have re-established diplomatic posts in Damascus in recent days . This shows that the West Bank may also be " in play " because of the policies of Qatar and Turkey . <p> Meanwhile , the Palestinian Authority has launched an important operation to restore order . For years the PA has seen its forces challenged in places like Jenin and Tulkarm . <p> As violence overflows , Israel has been forced to act more strongly against terror in these areas . Israel has resorted to more drone strikes as parts of the northern West Bank slip into chaos . Now , the PA is trying to do a better job . It is not clear what promoted this . <p> The US has helped back and train the PA security forces over the last two decades . It is not clear if the new PA initiative was taken in consultation with foreign advice or if this is solely an operation planned in Ramallah where PA President Mahmoud Abbas governs . <p> According to reports on the morning of Saturday , the PA forces have clashed with PIJ members and other armed men in Jenin Refugee Camp . A commander of the Jenin Battalion , an local militia linked to PIJ , was killed . <p> The spokesman for the Palestinian security forces , Brigadier General Anwar Rajab , was quoted by Quds media in the West Bank as saying that the security services were able to thwart a disaster in the Jenin camp . <p> The report said the forces had stopped a " booby-trapped vehicle prepared by outlaws ... the vehicle was supposed to be detonated among citizens and security personnel , as part of a cowardly criminal act that reflects an ISIS approach alien to our Palestinian values and morals and contradicts the course of our national struggle . " <p> PIJ has condemned the PA for its role in recent clashes and the attempt to restore law and order . The New Arab reported on the beginning of the clashes days ago . <p> " Tensions erupted during the funeral of a Palestinian man killed in clashes between Palestinian armed resistance fighters and Palestinian Authority ( PA ) forces in the West Bank city of Jenin on Tuesday . <p> The Jenin Battalion , linked to the Palestinian Islamic Jihad ( PIJ ) , attributed the death of 19-year-old Rahbi Shalabi to ongoing strife between PA security forces and its fighters , according to a report by news agency AFP . " <p> The rising death toll in the clashes could lead them to get worse but it could hint at the PA 's resolve to finally deal with the growing problems in Jenin. 
@@118879119 <p> Reflecting on his career , Sa'ar remarks : " I think I 'm the Israeli politician who has written the most resignation letters . I wrote a resignation letter when I left politics in 2014 to be with my family . I wrote a similar letter in 2020 when I had to leave the Likud party , which was my home and where I grew up , to establish the National Right Party . This March , I wrote another resignation letter from Netanyahu 's government because I felt things were n't heading in the right direction , and I could n't make an impact . I never focus on the seat ; it 's not what interests me . " <h> You 've criticized Netanyahu extensively in the past . How do you explain being part of his government today ? <p> " That 's not new , " Sa'ar says . " I joined the government in the week following October 7 , along with Benny Gantz and Gadi Eisenkot , out of the understanding that this war is critical for the future of the next generation , and its outcomes will shape the borders of the Middle East . Back then , as today , it seemed to me the most important issue , overshadowing everything else . " <h> Still , you resigned after six months . <p> " That might have been a mistake , " he admits , " but at that point , I felt there was stagnation regarding both Gaza and Lebanon . I also felt I had no ability to influence decisions because the war was being managed by a small cabinet . That 's why we stepped down last March . " <h> And yet , you returned six months later . Why ? <p> " Our return to the government in September was due to two main factors : the change in policy and the understanding that I would have influence in the most limited forums . I had long , discreet conversations with Netanyahu , which were not publicized in the media , where we discussed the war and came to the conclusion that , in this context , we see things eye to eye . Right now , I and other political leaders can not afford to stand on the sidelines . We must try to influence and help the State of Israel and its people . That 's what I 'm trying to do . My entire life , I 've been a man of the right . There were periods of excellent cooperation with Netanyahu and periods of political and personal rifts . But that was never the most important thing . The most important thing has always been the State of Israel . I never lose sight of the goal for which I 'm in this . " <h> How have people reacted to your return to the government ? <p> " There are people with different views than mine who wanted to use me to promote their agendas , not mine . That excites me to a very limited extent , to say the least , " Sa'ar says pointedly . " To those people , I say : if you were counting on the rift between Netanyahu and me , forget about it . You wo n't gain anything from it anymore . Find other ways to promote yourselves . " <h> What about your relationship with Netanyahu after the political and personal tensions ? <p> " Our relationship is very good , " he states . " We meet often , we talk frequently , and I 'm involved and well-informed . " Newly appointed Israeli minister of Foreign Affairs Gideon Saar attends a replacing ceremony at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Jerusalem on November 10 , 2024. ( credit : Canva , YONATAN SINDEL/FLASH90 ) <h> Does Netanyahu hold a grudge for your past criticisms ? <p> " My sense is that , just as I 've put past grievances aside , he 's done the same . It 's hard to know what 's in someone 's heart , but by nature , I 'm not one to hold grudges . I 've criticized him , and even today , I do n't see eye to eye with him on everything . It 's not that I 've abandoned my positions or opinions . But on issues related to the war and the diplomatic campaign , our views are very clear . And since , in my view , this is the most important matter , we are cooperating . Netanyahu is the Prime Minister ; he was elected by the people . When I look at the options today , I can say unequivocally that it is far better for Netanyahu to lead -- despite all the criticism I 've had of him -- than Gantz or Lapid . That 's my inner truth , and I ca n't tell myself a different story . " 
@@118905000 <h> Israeli forces carry out air , ground attacks in Gaza ; dozens dead <p> Displaced Palestinians shelter at a tent camp , amid the Israel-Hamas conflict , in Deir Al-Balah in the central Gaza Strip . <p> CAIRO &gt;&gt; Israeli strikes in Gaza killed at least 48 Palestinians , including a journalist and rescue workers , medics said , and the Israeli military said its air and ground forces in the north of the enclave killed dozens of militants and captured others . <p> An airstrike hit the civil emergency center in the Nuseirat market area in the central Gaza Strip , killing Ahmed Al-Louh , a video journalist for Al Jazeera TV , and five other people , medics and fellow journalists said . <p> The TV network said he was working when he was killed and condemned Israel . <p> The Israeli military said the strike had targeted Hamas and Islamic Jihad militants operating from Gaza 's Civil Defence 's Nuseirat office . It named Al-Louh as a member of the militant group Islamic Jihad , without providing evidence . <p> Al Jazeera did not immediately comment on the Israeli allegation but has condemned previous claims by Israel naming some of the Qatari-owned network 's journalists killed in the Gaza war as members of militant groups . <p> Hamas media said the head of the civil emergency service in Nuseirat , Nedal Abu Hjayyer , was also killed . <h> Do n't miss out on what 's happening ! <p> Stay in touch with top news , as it happens , conveniently in your email inbox . It 's FREE ! <p> " The civil emergency headquarters in Nuseirat camp was hit during the crews ' presence , they work around the clock to serve the people , " said Zaki Emadeldeen from the civil emergency service to reporters at the hospital . <p> Another airstrike hit a group of Hamas-linked men tasked with protecting aid trucks west of Gaza City , and medics said several were hurt but exact figures were unavailable . <p> At least 11 people were killed in three Israeli airstrikes on Gaza City houses , nine were killed in the towns of Beit Lahiya , Beit Hanoun and Jabalia camp when clusters of houses were bombed or set ablaze , and two were killed in Rafah , medics and residents said . <p> The Israeli military said the three Gaza City houses belonged to militants planning imminent attacks . It said steps were taken to reduce risk to civilians , including the use of precise munitions and aerial surveillance . <p> The military issued a photo showing the weapons it seized in Beit Lahiya that included explosives and dozens of grenades . <p> In southern Gaza 's Khan Younis , medics said that at least 20 people , including women and children , were killed when an airstrike hit a shelter housing displaced families . <p> In Beit Hanoun , residents said Israeli forces besieged families sheltering in Khalil Aweida school before storming it and ordering them to head towards Gaza City . <p> Medics said several people were killed and wounded during the raid while the army detained many men . <p> The military said it struck dozens of militants from the air and on the ground and captured others in Beit Hanoun . <p> Reuters was unable to confirm whether any of the people killed were fighters . Hamas does not disclose its casualties , and the Palestinian health ministry does not distinguish in its death toll between combatants and non-combatants . <p> Separately , Israel said aircraft struck a command and control center in a compound in the Abu Shabak clinic in northern Gaza used by Hamas to store weapons and plan attacks . The Gaza health ministry said the medical center was destroyed . <p> Palestinians accuse Israel of carrying out ethnic cleansing to depopulate Gaza 's northern edge to create a buffer zone . Israel denies this and says the campaign targets Hamas militants . The military says it has instructed civilians to evacuate battle zones for their own safety . <p> The war began when the Palestinian militant group Hamas stormed into Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , killing 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and taking more than 250 hostages back to Gaza , according to Israeli authorities . <p> Israel then launched an air and land offensive that has killed almost 45,000 people , mostly civilians , according to authorities in the Hamas-run Gaza Strip . The campaign has displaced nearly the entire population and left much of the enclave in ruins . <p> A bid by Egypt , Qatar and the United States to reach a truce , which would also include a hostage deal , has gained momentum in recent weeks , yet there has been no news of a breakthrough . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said he had spoken with U.S. President-elect Trump , who returns to the White House on Jan. 20 , about efforts to secure a hostage release . <p> " We discussed the need to complete Israel 's victory and we spoke at length about the efforts we are making to free our hostages , " Netanyahu said in a statement on Sunday . <p> 5 Comments <p> By participating in online discussions you acknowledge that you have agreed to the Terms of Service . An insightful discussion of ideas and viewpoints is encouraged , but comments must be civil and in good taste , with no personal attacks . If your comments are inappropriate , you may be banned from posting . Report comments if you believe they do not follow our guidelines.Having trouble with comments ? Learn more here . 
@@118905005 <h> Trump and Netanyahu discuss Gaza hostages and Syria <p> Israel 's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu meets with U.S. President Donald Trump prior to signing the Abraham Accords , normalizing relations between Israel and some of its Middle East neighbors in a strategic realignment of Middle Eastern countries against Iran , during a meeting in the Oval Office at the White House in Washington . <p> JERUSALEM/WEST PALM BEACH , Florida &gt;&gt; Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu spoke with U.S. President-elect Donald Trump about developments in Syria and a recent push to secure the release of Israeli and foreign hostages held by Hamas in Gaza , he said on Sunday . <p> Netanyahu said he spoke with Trump on Saturday night about the issue , which will loom large as one of the main foreign challenges facing Trump when he takes office if it is not resolved before he is sworn in on Jan. 20 . <p> Hamas-led militants killed 1,200 people and abducted more than 250 , including Israeli-American dual nationals , during their Oct. 7 , 2023 attack on Israel , according to Israeli tallies . More than 100 hostages have been freed through negotiations or Israeli military rescue operations . Of the 100 still held in Gaza , roughly half are believed to be alive . <p> Israel 's response has killed almost 45,000 people , mostly civilians , according to authorities in the Hamas-run Gaza Strip , displaced nearly the entire population and left much of the enclave in ruins . <p> Trump 's Middle East envoy , Steve Witkoff , warned last week during a visit to the region that it would " not be a pretty day " if the hostages held in Gaza were not released before Trump 's inauguration . <p> Trump said earlier this month there would be " hell to pay " in the Middle East if the hostages were not released before he came into office . <h> Do n't miss out on what 's happening ! <p> Stay in touch with top news , as it happens , conveniently in your email inbox . It 's FREE ! <p> A Trump spokesperson on Sunday declined to give further details about the call . <p> A bid by Egypt , Qatar and the United States to reach a truce that would also include a hostage deal has gained momentum in recent weeks . <p> Netanyahu said he had spoken with Trump about efforts to secure a hostage release . " We discussed the need to complete Israel 's victory and we spoke at length about the efforts we are making to free our hostages , " he said . <p> President Joe Biden 's outgoing administration is working hard to achieve a deal . U.S. national security adviser Jake Sullivan , who was in the region last week , said on Thursday he believed a deal on a Gaza ceasefire and hostage release may be close , and deputy national security adviser Jon Finer told Reuters there was momentum in the process . <p> Netanyahu said he and Trump had also discussed the situation in Syria following the overthrow of President Bashar al-Assad . Israel has carried out hundreds of strikes on Syria 's strategic weapons stockpiles in the days since Assad 's ouster and moved troops into a demilitarised zone inside Syria . <p> " We have no interest in a conflict with Syria , " Netanyahu said in a statement . Israeli actions in Syria were intended to " thwart the potential threats from Syria and to prevent the takeover of terrorist elements near our border , " he said . <p> 6 Comments <p> By participating in online discussions you acknowledge that you have agreed to the Terms of Service . An insightful discussion of ideas and viewpoints is encouraged , but comments must be civil and in good taste , with no personal attacks . If your comments are inappropriate , you may be banned from posting . Report comments if you believe they do not follow our guidelines.Having trouble with comments ? Learn more here . 
@@118905006 <h> Israel to close Dublin embassy , citing ' extreme anti-Israel policies ' <p> Israel will close its Dublin embassy due to the " extreme anti-Israel policies of the Irish government , " Foreign Minister Gideon Saar said on Sunday , citing its recognition of a Palestinian state and support for legal action against Israel . <p> Israel 's ambassador to Dublin was recalled following Ireland 's decision on a Palestinian state in May , Saar 's statement added . Last week , Dublin announced its support for South Africa 's legal action against Israel in the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) , accusing Israel of genocide . <p> Irish Prime Minister Simon Harris said the decision was deeply regrettable . " I utterly reject the assertion that Ireland is anti-Israel . Ireland is pro-peace , pro-human rights and pro-International law , " he said in a post on X. <p> " Ireland wants a two-state solution and for Israel and Palestine to live in peace and security . Ireland will always speak up for human rights and international law . " <p> Irish Foreign Minister Micheal Martin said in March that while it was for the World Court to decide whether genocide is being committed , he wanted to be clear that Hamas ' Oct. 7 attack and what is happening in Gaza now " represents the blatant violation of international humanitarian law on a mass scale . " <p> A statement from Israel 's foreign ministry also announced the establishment of an Israeli embassy in Moldova . <h> Do n't miss out on what 's happening ! <p> Stay in touch with top news , as it happens , conveniently in your email inbox . It 's FREE ! <p> By participating in online discussions you acknowledge that you have agreed to the Terms of Service . An insightful discussion of ideas and viewpoints is encouraged , but comments must be civil and in good taste , with no personal attacks . If your comments are inappropriate , you may be banned from posting . Report comments if you believe they do not follow our guidelines.Having trouble with comments ? Learn more here . 
@@118906516 <p> Baltimore-area Jews began marching 48 weeks ago to draw attention to the plight of the hostages in Gaza who were kidnapped during the Oct. 7 massacre in Israel . They meet every Sunday morning at Har Sinai-Oheb Shalom synagogue , and walk a roughly two-mile route to publicize the ongoing crisis . ( Amy Davis/Staff ) <h> Hostage walk PHOTOS <h> Share this : <p> Baltimore-area Jews gather outside Har-Sinai-Oheb Shalom synagogue to pray and read the names of the hostages still in Gaza who were kidnapped during the Oct. 7 massacre in Israel . Every Sunday morning they march a roughly two-mile route to publicize the ongoing crisis . The marches began 48 weeks ago , when the hostage crisis had reached 100 days . ( Amy Davis/Staff ) Ayala Kramer holds signs for two Israelis kidnapped by Hamas during the Oct. 7 massacre in Israel . Baltimore-area Jews began marching on Sunday mornings 48 weeks ago to draw attention to the plight of the hostages still in Gaza . They meet at Har Sinai-Oheb Shalom synagogue , and walk a roughly two-mile route to call for their release . ( Amy Davis/Staff ) <p> From left , Yael Turkel , Daniella Eyal and Adva Goldberg join other Baltimore-area Jews on a Sunday morning march to draw attention to the plight of the hostages in Gaza who were kidnapped during the Oct. 7 massacre in Israel . The weekly marches began 48 weeks ago . They meet at Har Sinai-Oheb Shalom synagogue , and walk a roughly two-mile route to publicize the ongoing crisis . ( Amy Davis/Staff ) Yitzchak Raphaeli , 83 , joins other Baltimore-area Jews who march on Sunday mornings to draw attention to the plight of the hostages in Gaza who were kidnapped during the Oct. 7 massacre by Hamas . His grand-niece 's son , Ohad Yahalomi , 49 , who was shot in the leg trying to protect his family on Oct. 7 at Kibbutz Nir Oz , was kidnapped with his son . The 12-year old son was later released , but the family has no word on the father . ( Amy Davis/Staff ) Yitzchak Raphaeli , 83 , joins other Baltimore-area Jews who march on Sunday mornings to draw attention to the plight of the hostages in Gaza who were kidnapped during the Oct. 7 massacre by Hamas . His grand-niece 's son , Ohad Yahalomi , 49 , who was shot in the leg trying to protect his family on Oct. 7 at Kibbutz Nir Oz , was kidnapped with his son . The 12-year old son was later released , but the family has no word on the father . ( Amy Davis/Staff ) <p> Baltimore-area Jews began marching 48 weeks ago to draw attention to the plight of the hostages in Gaza who were kidnapped during the Oct. 7 massacre in Israel . They meet every Sunday morning at Har Sinai-Oheb Shalom synagogue , and walk a roughly two-mile route to publicize the ongoing crisis . ( Amy Davis/Staff ) Michael Goldberg stands on Park Heights Avenue to keep traffic from getting close to the Baltimore-area Jews gathered outside Har Sinai-Oheb Shalom to recite the names of the hostages kidnapped by Hamas , before marching about two miles to publicize their plight . The weekly marches began 48 weeks ago to draw attention to the ongoing hostage crisis in Gaza following the Oct. 7 massacre in Israel . ( Amy Davis/Staff ) Baltimore-area Jews march along Reisterstown Road in Pikesville to draw attention to the plight of the hostages in Gaza who were kidnapped during the Oct. 7 massacre in Israel . This is the 48th week that they have marched to demand the release of the hostages . They walk a roughly two-mile circuit , beginning and ending at Har Sinai-Oheb Shalom synagogue . ( Amy Davis/Staff ) 
@@118907600 <p> Cindy McCain , the executive director of the World Food Programme , said " hunger is at the forefront " of global conflicts worldwide , making it a " national security issue " that requires the help of all countries involved . <p> " We need help from everybody . The world is on fire right now , " McCain said on " Face the Nation with Margaret Brennan , " adding that " hunger is at the forefront of all of this . " <p> McCain outlined that with food insecurity , people do n't " behave well , and things -- they start to migrate . " <p> " Wars begin that way , " she said . " Conflict is a part of all of this . " <p> Among the areas where the World Food Programme is at work is Syria , which has been thrown into a period of uncertainty after the fall of Syrian leader Bashar al-Assad last week . McCain said the organization 's deliveries to the area have been " very smooth " so far -- with 70,000 people fed this month -- while noting that they need more delivery options open , and more funds . <p> McCain said the World Food Programme has been able to move goods and food items to where they need to go " in a safe and quick manner " in Syria , noting that she 's hoping that things will " stay calm " so they can continue their work at full scale . But she said the organization is seeing " evidence of great hunger " in the country , while noting that without funding , people will " starve to death . " <p> McCain said the effort could use $17 billion worldwide , saying there are " so many countries that have absolutely no access to any fundings . " <p> " No one 's paying any attention to it , " she added . <p> McCain outlined the " complicated situation " in Sudan , with a slow process to access parts of the country , including places where famine has been declared . And in Gaza , she said conditions are " very close " to famine , noting that only two of the World Food Programme 's trucks were able to get through to the area in November . <p> Amid the access issues , McCain said " we need a ceasefire and we need it now , " adding that as the leader of the largest humanitarian aid agency in the world , she 's calling for a suspension of the hostilities in Gaza and urging her partners in the aid sphere to do the same . <p> " We can no longer sit by and just allow these people to starve to death , " McCain said . " We need help , and we need to make sure that we put political pressure on those that need to have political pressure put on them . " 
@@118911408 <h> The Oxford Union did n't publish two of the debate videos until Friday and reuploaded the others after they had been edited . <p> TENTS ARE pitched outside the Oxford University Museum of Natural History , as students occupy parts of British campuses in support of Palestinians in Gaza , this week . Supporters of genocidal jihadist groups are spreading mayhem across the Western world , says the writer . ( photo credit : HOLLIE ADAMS/REUTERS ) <p> The Oxford Union Society released several edited videos of its recent Israel-related debate on Friday after the student group faced heavy criticism for the alleged censorship of videos , the conduct of the audience and participants , and alleged pro-terrorism rhetoric in some of the speeches . <p> The following day , opposition debater , writer , and Oxford alum Jonathan Sacerdoti said the video of his speech had been edited to hide the heckling and abuse that he and other opposition debaters experienced . He and former Palestinian spy for Israel and anti-Hamas activist Mosab Hassan Yousef said the union had failed to upload Yousef 's speech for the same reason . <p> " They 've tried to hide what happened , in the video of my speech , by muting the sound and sticking to a wide shot , " Sacerdoti said on social media . <p> He published his recording of the debate on YouTube on December 6 . Footage of Yoseph Haddad being kicked out of the Oxford Union debate ( credit : SCREENSHOT/X/VIA SECTION 27A OF THE COPYRIGHT ACT ) <p> The Oxford Union Society criticized him for publishing and recording content without permission . It said the recordings were under legal review , but removed its video of Sacerdoti 's speech and re-uploaded it onto YouTube last Friday . <p> The video of Yousef 's debate was also released last Friday , which he said had been hidden in an attempt to hide the " moral rot " of the audience . <p> Last week , Sacerdoti said the union was ashamed not just of the abuse he received , but by the attempt of then-Oxford Union Society president Ebrahim Osman-Mowafy to remove Yousef from the room when he described Palestinians as a pathetic people . <p> " Since thousands pressured the students who run the Oxford Union to publish Mosab Hassan Yousef 's excellent speech , they 've now caved in and made it public , " Sacerdoti said on Saturday . " But only after I 'd already shown their failures and extremism by publishing the uncensored audio . And now they 've deleted other speeches and censored those instead , making a complete mockery of freedom of speech . " <h> Oxford Union addresses footage in a statement <p> Last Friday , the union acknowledged that " consistent with our existing practice of upholding standards while being mindful of potential legal concerns , sections of the official footage of the debate have been removed . " <p> Among the speeches that were edited was one by anti-Zionist Israeli writer Miko Peled , a member of the team in favor of the proposition , which like Yousef 's speech had not been uploaded until Friday . <p> Last Wednesday , Yousef said on X/Twitter the union had withheld Peled 's speech in an attempt to " destroy evidence " when Peled reportedly made statements of support for the October 7 massacre . <p> Sacerdoti had uploaded onto YouTube an alleged recording of Peled in which he said , " October 7 was not terrorism " but " acts of heroism of a people who have been oppressed . " His statements did not appear in the speech uploaded by the Oxford Union Society . <p> Opposition team debater and Arab pro-Israel activist Yoseph Haddad said the union had , with its acknowledgment that it had edited the video for legal compliance , " literally admitted that during Miko Peled 's speech , he supported terrorism and instead of calling him out and expelling him from the debate , they allowed him to continue and even cheered for him . " <p> Proposition team debater and Palestinian writer and activist Susan Abulhawa on Saturday criticized the union for removing her speech and re-uploading a version that was about a minute shorter . She demanded to know why her speech had been edited when the union had not issued " statements , retractions , or other forms of censorship " in the past . <p> " Such modification of my speech and censorship is unethical and contrary to the ideals they purport to uphold , " she said on social media . " This censorship and perversion of my remarks come after the original YouTube video had garnered hundreds of thousands of views and thousands of comments in less than one week , which apparently was bothersome to Zionists . I demand the original speech be reinstated in its entirety as it was previously posted . " <p> The union had folded to demands by Zionists , who had been " rewriting history for the past eight decades , " Abulhawa said . <p> Yousef on Wednesday also accused union president Osman-Mowafy of packing the audience to " guarantee vote results that suited his personal political views " when he debated on the side of the proposition . <p> The proposition that Israel was committing genocide passed 278-59 . <p> On December 4 , the union said the withdrawal of a guest speaker on short notice had necessitated that Osman-Mowafy fill the slot . Norman Finkelstein reportedly backed out because historian Benny Morris declined to join the opposition team . <p> The video of Osman-Mowafy 's speech said : " This speaker is a competitive debater , and the views expressed may not represent their own beliefs . " <p> The debate between the team of Sacerdoti , Yousef , Haddad , and UK Lawyers For Israel Charitable Trust legal director Natasha Hausdorff against Osman-Mowafy , Abulhawa , and Peled was rife with jeering and interruption . The proposition team refused to be photographed with their opponents , and Peled refused to shake their hands . <p> Abulhawa said an audience member had called Hassan Yousef a " whore " in Arabic when he approached the podium . Sacerdoti was repeatedly interrupted by guests yelling that he was lying . <p> On Friday , the union said it was committed to free speech and did not endorse any singular viewpoint . <p> " We are aware that the union 's recent debate on Israel/Palestine has drawn widespread commentary and attention , " it said . " The union acknowledges that facilitating difficult conversations carries a responsibility to approach sensitive topics with care . " 
@@118911412 <h> The research further suggests that the systems , which rely on rainfall-replenished groundwater , offer a pathway for community-driven , ecologically sensitive farming practices . <p> Unlike today -- when so many Arab and Muslim societies are devoted to wars , terror , infighting , and aggression against neighbors -- their best and most creative minds actually spent time improving the world during the early Islamic period in the late ninth to the early 12th centuries . <p> Then , as today , sources of potable water in the region were inadequate . Scholars in Iran , Gaza , Egypt , and Algeria , as well as the Atlantic coast of Iberia , have now cooperated with residents of Israel 's Mediterranean coast to create innovative water-harvesting and soil-enrichment technologies . <p> Researchers at Bar-Ilan University ( BIU ) in Ramat Gan , together with the Israel Antiquities Authority ( IAA ) in Jerusalem , suggest that such beneficial techniques could be adapted to cope with the water and agricultural needs of today to confront the growing challenges of water scarcity and food insecurity in arid and marginal regions . <p> They have just published a 35-page study in a special issue in the journal Environmental Archaeology entitled " Character and evolution of sunken groundwater-harvesting agroecosystems in aeolian sand since early Islamic times , between Iran and Iberia . " <h> The study <p> The paper resulted from an international workshop held at BIU in 2023 on the continuity-discontinuity of ancient water-harvesting agricultural systems . <p> This study evolved into an investigation of the long-term viability of regional sunken groundwater-harvesting agroecosystems in coastal and inland sand ( SGHAS ) as a sustainable agricultural model . <p> These methods of using water , typically found near urban settlements , used local organic material and urban refuse to enrich the inert sandy substrate , creating fertile grounds for growing crops like vegetables , watermelons , dates , and grapes . Importantly , SGHAS systems provide a model for long-term water security by using shallow groundwater together with rainfall for irrigation and groundwater replenishment . <p> Amazingly , the authors wrote in the paper that they were grateful to " several Middle Eastern Muslim researchers who confidentially shared their valuable knowledge on traditional agriculture and irrigation with us . " <p> The Israel Science Foundation-funded study was jointly headed by Prof. Joel Roskin , who is head of the sedimentology and portable luminescence lab from BIU 's environment , planning , and sustainability department , and Dr. Itamar Taxel of the IAA 's archaeological research department , along with post-doctoral students Drs . Lotem Robins and Ruben Sanchez ( of BIU ) , Prof. Revital Bookman , and doctoral candidate Adam Ostrowski ( at the University of Haifa ) . <p> Many dry and marginal regions where human populations reside are growing , leading to increasing competition for decreasing water resources and lower quality . This situation -- compounded by changes in climate , land use , and modernization -- are challenging sustainable human cultures . <p> Despite an intensive search for Arabic documents , no historical texts were found on these agrotechnological methods , and the crop types are unknown . The team said that this gap calls for learning the history and practices of similar traditional agroecosystems in sand . <p> DESPITE THEIR initial success , early Islamic Plot-and-Berm ( P&amp;B ) agricultural ecosystems in Israel were largely abandoned after the Crusader conquest and , surprisingly , were not reestablished . But these traditional systems found renewed application in regions such as Iran , Algeria , the Gaza Strip , and parts of Iberia since the Middle Ages , where they continue to support agriculture in marginal environments . <p> A berm is a level space , shelf , sandbar , or raised barrier separating areas in a vertical way , especially part of the way up a long slope . It can serve as a terrace road and is often created to separate or protect an area . The sand is deposited in berms in shallow water to prevent flooding . <p> With many arid and marginal regions facing expanding populations and decreasing water resources , these ancient water-harvesting practices can address the global challenge of sustainable agriculture . <p> The researchers suggest that the early Islamic agroecosystems were ahead of their time , offering a glimpse into agricultural practices that were remarkably advanced compared to agricultural systems that were developed later . <p> This understanding helps explain the 400-year gap between the abandonment of early Islamic systems and the reappearance of SGHAS in the 15th century . <p> The long-term use of these agroecosystems contributed to continuous , shallow groundwater availability , which is vital for agricultural production and local food security in arid regions . These systems , which include advanced soil-enrichment techniques and groundwater harvesting methods , show the resilience of traditional agricultural practices and their potential for modern adaptation in regions where water is scarce . <p> " We could neither find written or factual evidence of the crops grown in early Islamic times nor decipher the know-how and motivation for this original , exhaustive , and ingenious effort to earthwork , enrich , and cultivate sand . However , the inception of traditional Middle Age on SGHASs probably stemmed from a growing demand to cultivate the extensive new world influx of fruits and vegetables from arid zones and the Americas , " Roskin wrote . <p> " We speculate that the Islamic agroecosystems provided several similar species to those found today in the traditional SGHASs . The reappearance in the Middle Ages and the third expansion of SGHASs in the late 19th century and early 20th century in Iberia suggests that this type of agriculture is adaptable to varying economic and cultural settings and therefore may possess potential for certain current socio-agronomic scenarios . " <p> While modern agriculture often relies on intensive water usage and depleting soil quality , traditional systems like SGHAS offer more sustainable , low-impact alternatives that can be adapted to contemporary needs , he continued . <p> " While traditional agricultural methods can not entirely replace modern , industrialized farming , they remain valuable in preserving local knowledge and expertise that have been honed over centuries . The study underscores the potential for integrating traditional agricultural practices such as SGHAS into modern sustainable agriculture solutions , particularly for communities facing water scarcity and environmental stresses . " <p> The research further suggests that SGHAS-style systems , which rely on rainfall-replenished groundwater , offer a pathway for community-driven , ecologically sensitive farming practices , the team declared . <p> " These systems are not only sustainable but also promote community engagement , resilience to climate change , and environmental stewardship . As traditional farming methods gradually fade in the face of industrial agriculture , these agroecosystems offer important models for creating locally adaptive , sustainable food systems . " 
@@118911414 <h> Both girls said that they thought their big sisters would be proud of them , and the watches they inherited will help them remember to keep in touch with their parents in the weeks ahead . <p> FAMILIES AND SUPPORTERS of Israeli soldiers kidnapped by Hamas from the Nahal Oz surveillance outpost on October 7 demand the release of all hostages held in Gaza , outside the home of Shas head MK Aryeh Deri in Jerusalem , earlier this week. ( photo credit : YONATAN SINDEL/FLASH90 ) <p> It should have been a joyful day , full of pride , as two young women who became friends during the past year joined the army on the same day recently to start a course to become infantry instructors.The two girls , Yuval and Yael , their faces filled with anticipation , both with long brown hair , looked at each other as they hugged their families goodbye , but there was a wistfulness about the scene because each girl was missing her older sister . <p> The fresh-faced recruits were Yuval Marciano , the sister of Noa Marciano z ' ' l , who , among the border observers , was kidnapped from her base at Nahal Oz and whose body was later found in Gaza , and Yael Eshel , the sister of Roni Eshel z ' ' l , who was murdered at Nahal Oz and whose body was only identified after five weeks . <p> A Keshet 12 news feature that aired Saturday night highlighted the difficult decision of Yuval and Yael to join the army despite the horrific deaths of their beloved older sisters . Fifteen of these unarmed female Nahal Oz border observers were killed that day in their base after the handful of armed soldiers left to defend them were murdered and overpowered . Seven of the border observers were kidnapped to Gaza , where Noa Marciano was murdered and one , Ori Megidish , was rescued . Five of them -- Liri Albag , Karina Ariev , Agam Berger , Daniella Gilboa , and Naama Levy -- are still being held hostage in Gaza by Hamas.When there is an official commission of inquiry into the October 7 attack , the failure to defend the border observers at Nahal Oz will be one of the most important issues . Footage taken by Hamas and released on Israeli media last May showed that the terrorists were relaxed and unhurried enough to pray over the bloodied bodies of the dead and living border observers . It took hours for help from the IDF to arrive , help which came much too late . <p> Demonstration of border observer workstations at IDF bases , Jerusalem , November 15 , 2024. ( credit : RAQUEL GUERTZENSTEIN FROHLICH ) The irony that intensified the families ' sadness was that it was precisely these border observers whose anguished warnings about suspicious Hamas exercises along the Gaza border were ignored by their superiors , warnings that , if heeded , might have prevented hundreds of deaths , including their own . <h> Parents struggle to accept daughters ' decision <p> No one could have blamed Yael and Yuval if they had decided not to enlist in the army , certainly not their parents , who are shown struggling to accept their younger daughters ' decision . Yuval 's father , Avi Marciano , said in the report , " It 's not easy . We have had a bitter experience with the army . On the one hand , we want to let her fulfill herself ; on the other hand , we are afraid for her . " Adi Marciano , Yuval 's mother , admitted , " Washing a uniform again will be the hardest for me . " Asked whether she feels excited to see Yael joining the IDF , Yael 's mother , Sharon Eshel , said , " I 'm not excited . I 'm sad . Sometimes , it feels like the binding of Isaac . I 've been trying to convince her all year not to enlist . Even yesterday , I told her , ' It 's not too late to change your mind , do n't enlist . ' " Eyal Eshel , Roni , and Yael 's father said , " I did n't tell her not to enlist . I think this is her life . I think it 's a journey that everyone has to go through , even through all our grief and bereavement , but this time it 's with zero trust ... And I say this with great sadness , truly . " <p> Yael and Yuval became friendly when their mothers were united in grief following the October 7 attack , and their bond intensified when they joined a delegation from Friends of the IDF to the US to tell their loved ones ' stories . <p> It 's no surprise that the two became close . " We have the same mindset . We 've been through almost exactly the same story , so we understand each other , " said Yael . <p> Despite all they have endured , neither seriously considered opting out of their army service . " I think everyone should give of themselves somehow , no matter what they 've been through , " said Yuval . <p> The two girls met up shortly before their enlistment day and went shopping together at the Azrieli Mall in Tel Aviv to buy supplies , which could not have been a more typical pre-army experience . But instead of buying new earrings or getting ice cream after they made their pre-army purchases , they walked to another destination five minutes away from the mall -- Hostage Square in Tel Aviv , a plaza outside the Tel Aviv Museum of Art , which has become a center for the vigils of hostage families and a center for exhibits commemorating the hostages and those murdered . On the day of their shopping trip , there was an exhibit commemorating the border observers , with their desks and computers recreated but painted yellow . Audio of their last desperate communications with headquarters was played , including one by Roni , in which , in a deceptively calm voice , she reported on the dozens of armed terrorists taking over the base . " I 've heard this recording many times , it 's crazy . It 's hard , " said Yael , and the sadness in her eyes made the unfathomable grief and trauma her family has experienced during the last year slightly clearer . It was easy to understand Yuval when she described the past year of mourning and said she thought it would do the two of them good to be out of the house and not have to see their mothers crying all day . <p> Both of them chose to take a single object with them on their army service that remained from each of their sisters : Roni and Noa each left behind a watch . Said Yuval , " I feel her in my heart , in my soul , it 's not just this watch , I feel her even without the watch . " Both girls said that they thought their big sisters would be proud of them , and the watches they inherited will help them remember to keep in touch with their worried parents in the weeks and months ahead . 
@@118911415 <p> Around 300 reservists have expressed an interest in moving to frontline communities in the North and South , reservist organization the Israeli Reservists -- Generation of Victory said last week . <p> The organization , founded at the start of the Israel-Hamas War , has launched an initiative to encourage reservists to move to the same communities they defended . <p> This initiative is in cooperation with National Missions Minister Orit Strock and Diaspora Affairs and Combating Antisemitism Minister Amichai Chikli . <p> The organization is organizing groups it anticipates will move to the Gaza border region , the Jordan Valley , the Galilee , and parts of the Negev , it said . <p> " I looked at the reservist soldiers around me on the battlefield -- young people , full of values and Zionism -- and thought to myself : Once we complete our mission in the war and restore security to the North , we will take on the next mission for Israel -- strengthening the settlements in the north of the country and in the Gaza border communities , " said Israeli Reservists chairman Maj. ( res . ) Gilad Ach.IDF soldiers operate in the Gaza Strip , December 3 , 2024. ( credit : IDF SPOKESPERSON 'S UNIT ) <p> " It 's in our DNA for the population that has sacrificed for more than a year and served the public to invest in these crucial areas . The sense of unity we share will support us in this effort . Several groups have already approached us , expressing a desire to settle in these challenging areas , " he added . <p> According to Ach , " The path to ensuring victory is n't by holding onto territories in Lebanon and Gaza only ; it 's primarily through bolstering the existing settlements , which need the support of reservists now more than ever . " <h> Chikli , Strock comment on initiative <p> Chikli commented on the initiative , saying that " in the Gaza border communities , the Lebanon region , the Galilee , and the Negev , pioneering and settlement efforts are what is needed now . To strengthen the areas impacted by the war and to prepare for future challenges , we need young people to take the initiative , establish roots , and build their homes in these regions . <p> " In recent months , we have seen many commendable initiatives by reservists seeking to establish settlement contingents . We are working to support these efforts by collaborating with all relevant parties , from government ministries to local council leaders and field organizations , to turn this vision into reality , " he added . <p> Strock , whose ministry includes a division that deals with settlement , also commented on the initiative , saying that she was committed to rebuilding , expanding , and enhancing the northern region and its surroundings . 
@@118911418 <h> The vice president of global affairs at Sheba Medical Center discusses the hospital 's role in the war , its future plans , and what makes it unique . <p> THE SHEBA Emergency Room is one of six trauma centers in Israel. ( photo credit : SHEBA MEDICAL CENTER ) <p> ' We are prepared , " said Yoel Har-Even , vice president of global affairs at Sheba Medical Center , " and we always live with a sense that something will happen . " <p> Since the outbreak of the Israel-Hamas war more than a year ago , Sheba 's sense of preparedness has enabled it to treat more than 2,000 casualties of the war , which includes soldiers and civilians.YOEL HAR-EVEN , vice president of global affairs at Sheba Medical Center . ( Credit : SHEBA MEDICAL CENTER ) <p> Recently , Har-Even -- who served in the IDF for 26 years , reaching the position of assistant to the surgeon general -- spoke with this writer over Zoom and recounted some of the lessons learned by Sheba staff over the past 14 months and outlined some of Sheba 's other activities . <p> Of the 2,000 war casualties that were brought to the hospital , said Har-Even , four died -- a survival rate of close to 100% . <p> " This number is amazing , " he noted , " but it 's due to the efforts of many , many people . It 's not only the hospitalization system -- it 's the IDF first response teams that stop the bleeding and give blood in the field . No one else in the world is giving fresh blood at the point of injury . <p> " It 's the rapid evacuation by the IDF 's Unit 669 , that is willing to land in every corner of Gaza or Lebanon , risking their lives and saving people by landing very close to the point of injury , and then transporting them to Sheba , where they receive trauma-level care in less than one hour . Add to that the treatment efforts of our surgeons and nurses . It 's a team effort . " SHEBA MEDICAL personnel meet an army helicopter at Sheba 's helipad . ( Credit : SHEBA MEDICAL CENTER ) <p> The initial civilian casualties that were brought to Sheba on October 7 and 8 , explained Har-Even , were primarily suffering from hand and finger injuries sustained when attempting to lock safe room doors against Hamas terrorists , who shot through the doors . These injuries were complicated and compounded by the fact that many of the injured were unable to be evacuated for hours to the hospital due to the chaos . <p> Many of the military casualties from the war in Gaza , Har-Even said , were unlike those from conventional military conflicts where artillery and tank forces are pitted against each other . Instead , he explained , most of the casualties occurred in dense , narrow streets in an urban environment . As a result , there were a great deal of blast injuries and casualties from sniper fire . <h> Lessons learned <p> Revisiting the theme of preparedness , Har-Even said that the Sheba medical team learned from the Second Lebanon War ( 2006 ) and the 2014 Gaza conflict that the mental component of battle is significant . <p> " We understood that we need to address and treat the mental health of wounded soldiers as soon as possible . As soon as the helicopters land bearing a wounded soldier , we send a psychiatrist for intake and start the process of recovery . We begin the mental healing process at that time , rather than waiting a few months . " <p> A second lesson learned from previous conflicts , he added , is to have soldiers personally notify their parents , if possible , when they have been wounded in battle . <p> " The parents need to hear the voice of their son or daughter informing them what has happened , to tell them , ' I was wounded , I 'm now at Sheba , and they are going to operate on me , but I 'm okay . ' It 's much easier for the parents to hear directly from their son or daughter than to find out from someone knocking at their door . " <p> Har-Even said that he has heard hundreds of inspirational stories about those wounded in the war who were brought to Sheba Medical Center . <p> SEVENTY PERCENT of all IDF casualties of the current war were treated at Sheba , rehabilitated at Sheba , or are still rehabilitating there . ( Credit : SHEBA MEDICAL CENTER ) <p> One story that he found particularly moving was of a soldier fighting in the North who was the victim of a drone attack and was declared brain dead . Another soldier in Sheba had suffered severe damage to his lungs when his tank was hit . The family of the soldier who was rendered brain dead by the drone attack donated their son 's lungs to save the life of the soldier from the tank . <p> " It is one of the first occasions when one soldier donated life to another soldier , both of whom had suffered wounds in combat , while the war was still going on . " <p> Beyond the immediate task of saving the lives of the wounded in the war , the Sheba team assisted IDF medical corps teams , even before the invasion of Gaza , by providing training on lifesaving procedures at Sheba and in staging areas near Gaza with MSR on Wheels -- mobile units that offer accessible , simulation-based training to medical teams . <p> Sheba also acted as a distribution center for lifesaving equipment that arrived from overseas . Workers unpacked equipment and distributed it to IDF medical units that picked it up at the hospital . In addition , the hospital sent medical teams to treat evacuees from Israel 's southern and northern regions who had been evacuated to hotels at the Dead Sea and Eilat . <p> One of the most challenging tasks , said Har-Even , was preparing and assessing the health condition of those who had been taken captive by Hamas and were released . " We did n't know what shape they would be in when they arrived -- both physically and mentally -- and we had to be prepared for the worst . " <h> World outreach <p> Even in the midst of the war , Sheba has continued its outreach efforts to the rest of the world through its Sheba Global program , which shares knowledge and experience with healthcare professionals and institutions worldwide , sending response teams to disaster zones and facilitating the arrival of international patients under complex medical circumstances . <p> In the past year , Sheba sent medical personnel to Ukraine , Ethiopia , and Albania . In addition , Sheba is Israel 's largest hospital dealing with medical tourism , treating thousands of patients each year from Europe , South America , North America , and Africa . <p> While Sheba has supported other countries and overseas patients in its medical outreach , it has also benefited , particularly in the past year , from members of the Jewish community throughout the world who have come to Israel to visit wounded soldiers . Har-Even is particularly moved by their visits . <p> " Coming to Israel when everything is quiet is one thing , but coming here when missiles are flying is real brotherhood . Leaving family in North America , Canada , Australia , and South Africa and coming to Israel during a war just because we belong to the same nation is something that we do n't take for granted . <p> " When I talk to delegations who come to visit the soldiers , they ask me what to bring them . I always tell them , ' They need your love and your support , not by bringing gifts . They have plenty of those , but they need your hearts . ' I tell them that if they really want to make a connection , they should bring letters from children in Jewish schools , " he said . <p> " Do you know what the soldiers do with the letters ? " he marveled . " Every one of them covers their hospital room walls with those letters . " <p> HAR-EVEN EMPHASIZED Sheba 's ability to provide a rapid assessment and treatment of the wounded from the war and added that one word not used at Sheba is " no . " Any family or soldier who wants to be taken to Sheba in a secondary evacuation from another hospital will be quickly admitted to the hospital and will not be turned down . <p> " The second rule that my CFO said at the beginning of the war , " said Har-Even , " is that we wo n't push anyone out , and for that reason we need to dramatically increase the number of rehabilitation beds in the hospital . " <p> Seventy percent of all IDF casualties were treated at Sheba , rehabilitated at Sheba , or are still rehabilitating there . The hospital is increasing the number of beds available for rehabilitation from 40 to 120 , including staffing needs . <p> Har-Even noted that the hospital has hundreds of emergency beds available in its underground hospital unit in the event of an attack and is fully equipped and prepared for the worst . " We are ready , the equipment is there , and the electricity is operating . " <p> There are many excellent hospitals in Israel , Har-Even said , but what makes Sheba unique is that it was initially established as a rehabilitation hospital by David Ben-Gurion in June 1948 . " Through all of Israel 's wars , we have gained a great deal of experience in the rehabilitation of soldiers , " he stated . <p> Over the years , Sheba has added many departments , ranging from mental health to pediatrics , but its roots are in rehabilitation . " Our uniqueness lies in the comprehensive services that we can offer soldiers , from acute treatment to rehabilitation , in one hospital with a single electronic medical record for all treatments , which is very important for continuity of care . " <p> Concluding our interview , Har-Even paid tribute to the medical team at Sheba and the Israeli medical system at large . <p> " One of the strengths of the Israeli healthcare system is its amazing people who are willing to leave their families and come to work 12-hour shifts . Sometimes this is with the knowledge that their cities and their families are under attack , but they keep coming to do the job for which they were trained -- because this is the role we play in the war . " 
@@118913008 <p> Israel says it will close its embassy in Ireland as relations deteriorate over the war in Gaza , where Palestinian medical officials say new Israeli airstrikes have killed over 30 people including children . <p> Congressional Republicans and former Trump appointees have spent the last year building out their response to the movement protesting Israel 's war in Gaza , and now that Donald Trump is returning to the White House they warn that protest leaders , activists and those who help them raise money could face an onslaught of federal investigations and possible indictments . <p> As Columbia University resumes classes Tuesday , students and faculty are planning , and bracing , for a resumption of the pro-Palestinian protests that convulsed campus at the tail end of the spring semester and touched off a wave of college demonstrations nationwide . 
@@118914509 <p> The presentation at a local therapy conference prompted a letter-writing campaign . The director says she 's received physical threats online . <p> Students and visitors on Villanova University campus in this 2019 file photo . A presentation by the director of the school 's counseling center has prompted a letter-writing campaign to Villanova.Read moreYONG KIM / Staff Photographer <p> At a psychology conference last month , hundreds of therapists , researchers , and students descended on the Philadelphia Marriott Downtown in Center City to catch up on the latest in the field . The day culminated in a session on antiracism , led by Nathalie Edmond , a psychologist who directs Villanova University 's Counseling Center . <p> Two slides from her session about dismantling oppression prompted outrage among some attendees : One showed a spectrum of " acceptable discourse , " with " cultural freedoms " on one end and " Zionism and fascism " on the other . <p> Advertisement <p> The second depicted " The Colonized Mind , " labeled with various ideologies , including " internalized racism , " " homophobia , " " rape culture , " and " Zionism . " <p> Villanova , a Catholic University on the Main Line , largely hasavoided the protests and criticism over Israel and Gaza that have embroiled other campuses since Oct. 7 , 2023 . But Edmond 's presentation -- with those two graphics produced by the Slow Factory , a progressive environmental nonprofit with an Instagram account often critical of Israel -- gave way to outrage that has found its way to Villanova administrators . <p> Excerpts from the presentation quickly ricocheted across social media and through pockets of the Jewish and therapeutic communities , where observers called the slides antisemitic . It prompted a decentralized letter-writing campaign to Villanova , urging the university to " review Dr. Edmond 's suitability for her current role . " <p> Andrew Goretsky , regional director for the Philadelphia office of the Anti-Defamation League , said the organization received " quite a few " complaints about the presentation . <p> He said he met with representatives from Villanova twice since the November conference . In the meetings , Goretsky said , he urged the university to clarify that Edmond 's statements did not represent the university 's view and to provide training for staff and administration on " modern-day antisemitism and Jewish identity connection to Israel . " <p> Some see criticism of Zionism , the belief that Israel is the nation-state of the Jewish people , as inherently antisemitic . Others , including some Jewish activists , say Zionism is a political ideology and opposition to it should not be conflated with prejudice against Jewish people . <p> " Dr. Edmond spoke in a private capacity and her views , like the diverse views of our nearly 2,000 staff members , do not and should not be perceived to represent the position of Villanova University , " the university said in a statement to The Inquirer . <p> A spokesperson said that the university reviewed the matter and " has taken appropriate actions , " and declined to comment further on internal personnel matters . The university has not put out any communication to its community addressing the presentation . The majority of emails the university received about Edmond 's presentation were from people who had no connection to Villanova , the spokesperson said . <h> A conference on reconciling opposites <p> Participants came to the Philadelphia conference to learn about dialectical behavior therapy , or DBT , which focuses on teaching people skills to manage intense emotions and cope with challenging situations . One of its central tenets is " the dialectical , " the idea that two opposite things can be true at the same time . <p> The International Society for Improvement and Teaching of Dialectical Behavior Therapy hosts the annual daylong conference in connection with the far bigger Association for Behavioral and Cognitive Therapies conference . Each year , several hundred people attend presentations on new research and workshops where therapists can earn continuing education credits . <p> When Edmond finished her presentation , Sivan Komatsu , a 25-year-old graduate student studying school psychology at the University of Washington in Seattle , approached the mic to say she was distressed by the " huge , huge antisemitism in those slides . " As an Israeli American Jew , Komatsu said , she saw the references to Zionism as effectively anti-Jewish and as troubling misinformation that would ripple out from the room . <p> Another attendee filmed the exchange , which was polite and respectful on both sides , with Edmond thanking Komatsu after she spoke while disagreeing with some of what she said . <p> As clips from the exchange traveled online in the week after the conference , Edmond , who declined to comment for this article , released an 18-minute YouTube video , acknowledging that her slides had caused harm while also pushing back against the idea " that simply the mention or critique of Zionism is antisemitic . " <p> " I really try to take an intersectional antiracism view that tries to combat antisemitism while also tries to amplify the voices of Palestinian people who are currently experiencing a genocide , " Edmond said in the video . <p> She described a backlash that has been " fierce and painful " and included efforts to get her fired , to get her psychology license revoked , and to harm her consulting business . As a Black woman , Edmond added in her YouTube video , " What I have experienced digitally I would describe as a modern-day lynching . " <p> In an interview , Komatsu said she found the slides problematic because the conference presented Edmond as an expert . <p> " She was up there in front of hundreds of people , teaching us , " Komatsu said . <p> The conference board sent an apology letter to attendees about the " incredible pain and harm " caused by the presentation , while also denouncing " threats of physical harm " that Edmond received in response to it . 
@@118938311 <h> Management received hundreds of nominations from staffers passionate about celebrating colleagues <p> FOX News Media CEO Suzanne Scott and President &amp; Executive Editor Jay Wallace announced the recipients of the 2024 FOX News Media Spotlight Awards last Wednesday during an end-of-year town hall for employees . <p> The FOX News Media Spotlight Awards are an annual tradition for the company and management received hundreds of nominations from staff members passionate about celebrating colleagues who earned special recognition . <h> Unsung Hero Award <p> The Unsung Hero Award goes to employees who consistently go above and beyond with work that is vital to FOX News Media but often goes unnoticed . Three winners were selected and Hemmer joked he would continue his tradition of referring to winners as " Unsung " when he sees them around the office . <p> " Three of our absolutely critical and beloved members of this community , " MacCallum said . <p> Director of technical operations Latoya Lewis <p> Director of technical operations Latoya Lewis . <p> Lewis is known to " own " the control room and is clear , communicative and in command whenever breaking news occurs . Her attention to detail helps the entire department , and she 's also involved with the FOX News Media Career Launch Program . <p> Director of technical operations Alex Mitchner <p> Director of technical operations Alex Mitchner . <p> Mitchner " believes in people who believe in themselves , " according to colleagues . She 's known to provide opportunities for colleagues that they might not have found on their own and often mentors less experienced staffers . Mitchner has also played a key role in helping the team adapt to new technology . <p> Broadcast engineering supervisor Jason Oster <p> Broadcast engineering supervisor Jason Oster . <p> Oster received a " ridiculous number of nominations " because he often solves problems before anyone else realizes there was even an issue . The tireless professional plays a key role in keeping FOX News Media networks up and running . He 's the longest-serving winner , having started at Fox News in 1999 . <h> Rising Star Award <p> The Rising Star Award goes to employees who have shown exemplary work ethic and growth during the early stages of their careers . Four winners were selected and Baier promptly joked they would eventually be running the company . <p> " Congratulations to our rising stars , " Baier said . <p> Broadcast production engineer Frank Andriola <p> Andriola was nominated 11 times , indicating he is highly respected by his colleagues while helping maintain FOX News Media infrastructure . He makes it his mission to learn everything about new technologies and then teach it to others . <p> Fogliano started at the Washington , D.C. , assignment desk as a freelance guest greeter and quickly made a name for herself , pitching segments and booking guests . Within a few months , she was on the road for political coverage and is now a booker on " America 's Newsroom . " <p> Associate producer Meghan Tome <p> Associate producer Meghan Tome . <p> Tome has learned to manage multiple reporters across multiple live shots and picked up the job so quickly that managers have to keep finding new challenges for the rising star . She often shows up early , stays late and volunteers to help the Capitol Hill team on her days off . <p> Human Resources coordinator Jordan Wells <p> Human Resources coordinator Jordan Wells . <p> Wells is proactive and creative about finding ways to support her colleagues . She is constantly volunteering for projects and has developed a reputation as someone always willing to help . <h> Community Service Award <p> This award goes to an employee that has dedicated time and energy to his or her local community and is most active in company volunteer efforts . Three winners were selected this year . <p> " Thank you for your service to your community , " Perino said . <p> Senior manager of engineering Richard Hernandez <p> Hernandez has collected and delivered new clothes and toys to children living in orphanages in several Mexican cities . He 's created an annual toy drive at the L.A. Bureau , where his colleagues are inspired by his generosity . Thanks to Hernandez , kids ranging from age three to 17 get gifts each Christmas . <p> " Varney and Co. " senior producer Robert McNally <p> Senior producer Robert McNally . <p> McNally has been a member of the Coast Guard Auxiliary since 2012 . He is also a member of the Honor Guard and Color Guard , conducting ceremonies at events , participating in parades and supporting veterans ' funerals . <p> Overton coded a new system to manage all the editorial , graphics , guest bookings and other data that FOX Weather relies on every moment of every day . He has streamlined operations and earned the " Terminator " inspired nickname " Skynet . " <h> The Impact Award <p> The Impact Award goes to a person or department that significantly and positively impacted FOX News Media over the past year . Two winners were selected . <p> Scott said both groups have had an " incredible impact " on FOX News Media in 2024 . <p> " For more than a year now , these six amazing people have been the core of a team that has told a story of a nation at war . They have brought us constant updates on the hostages , taken us deep into the tunnels under Gaza and reported on the ongoing humanitarian crisis , " Scott said . <p> " And they did it all while living in a war zone , with their homes , their lives , and their loved ones all under constant threat , " Scott added . " This is their daily life , journalism during wartimes . We are so grateful for their work . " <p> Field and Production Operations <p> FOX News Media Field and Production Operations staff . <p> " These incredibly talented staffers can transform any venue into a compelling set that 's ready for primetime . And they do it better , and faster , than anybody else in the business , " Scott said . <p> " They are the ones who made us look so good this year at debates , town halls , the RNC and DNC , and most recently , last week 's amazing Patriot Awards , " she added . " While half the team handles that , the other half focuses on the breaking news demands of all of our platforms . These jobs are not easy . Their levels of coordination and creativity are off the charts , and they are an enormous part of our success . " <p> Brian Flood is a media editor/reporter for FOX News Digital . Story tips can be sent to brian.flood@fox.com and on Twitter : @briansflood . <h> Fox News First <p> Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox . <p> Arrives Weekdays <p> By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button , you agree to the Fox News Privacy Policy and Terms of Use , and agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News . You understand that you can opt-out at any time . 
@@118939014 <p> The prisoner CNN helped free from a secret facility in Syria was actually a notorious member of Bashar al-Assad 's forces known to torture those who refused to pay him off , according to a shocking local fact check . <p> The network went viral last week with footage of the startled prisoner being led from the prison by journalist Clarissa Ward , who called it " one of the most extraordinary moments I have witnessed " in her 20 years of reporting . <p> But " independent and unbiased " fact-checkers Verify-Sy published a detailed report Sunday saying that the seemingly innocent prisoner was actually Salama Mohammad Salama -- a first lieutenant in Syrian air force intelligence with a long history of alleged war crimes . <p> " We have subsequently been investigating his background and are aware that he may have given a false identity , " CNN acknowledged to The Post . " We are continuing our reporting into this and the wider story . " <p> He gave his name as Adel Ghurbal and claimed to have been arrested by government authorities three months earlier -- and said he had no idea the Assad regime had collapsed . <p> Verify-Sy noted , however , that he appeared " well-groomed , and physically healthy , with no visible injuries or signs of torture -- an incongruous portrayal of someone allegedly held in solitary confinement in the dark for 90 days . " <p> He also " did not flinch or blink even when gazing up at the sky " despite having said he had not seen sunlight for three months . <p> Verify-Sy then found that there was no record of an Adel Ghurbal in the region -- leading it to his true identity , Salama , the outlet said . <p> Known as " Abu Hamza , " Salama worked at several security checkpoints in Homs and was involved in theft , extortion and coercing residents into becoming informants for Assad , local residents told the fact-checkers . <p> He also killed civilians during the Syrian civil war in 2014 -- and allegedly detained and tortured young men on bogus charges , many of whom refused to pay bribes , Verify-Sy reported . <p> Locals claim he was locked up in the prison where he was discovered for less than a month due to a dispute with a high-ranking officer over sharing the extorted money . <p> Salama was freed by the rebel fighters , fed a meal and later taken away by EMTs in the CNN report . <p> CNN denies allegations that the piece was fabricated . <p> " No one other than the CNN team was aware of our plans to visit the prison building featured in our report that day . The events transpired as they appear in our film , " CNN said . <p> The struggling news network was also forced to defend Ward 's work last year , when she was accused of staging a report near the Israel-Gaza border showing her and her crew hitting the crowd amid a barrage of rocket strikes . <p> A doctored version of the live shot -- with fake audio of someone directing the action -- caught fire on social media with many believing it was real . 
@@118939204 <h> Planned Parenthood 's federally funded mess <p> Defunding Planned Parenthood is now an attainable goal for the pro-life movement . President-elect Donald Trump aimed to do so during his first time in office , and the pressure remains for his coming term . <p> The case is nondiscriminatory : Planned Parenthood uses its funding poorly and dishonestly . A look into the rampant unionization and various substandard working conditions makes the case itself . That is not to say Planned Parenthood is corrupt and greedy ; case closed -- its executives really are partial to abortion and feel responsible for it , so they maneuver accordingly and do not care about much else . Besides , given the reversal of Roe v. Wade , federal funding for an abortion-plus-side-gigs operation does not fit the frame . Is more money supposed to fix Planned Parenthood ? <p> Of course not . But that is the question the Trump administration is betting will occur to congressmen as part of " getting everybody on the same page . " Trump aided the pro-life cause by reinstating the Mexico City Policy that discontinues federal funding to international organizations that refer to abortion , as well as rolling back an Obamacare rule in order to allow exemptions for contraception coverage . In 2019 , he regulated abortion funding by making it illegal for organizations that receive Title X funding to provide abortion referrals . ( Planned Parenthood Action courteously compiled those and the rest of Trump 's related successes on its website . ) <p> The Title X rule passed and held effect until President Joe Biden undid it in 2021 . It is easy to imagine more party-dependent flip-flopping on Title X , but what is more crucial is the funding Planned Parenthood receives by way of the Affordable Care Act : The majority of the organization 's overall funding , hundreds of millions of dollars , comes from Medicaid reimbursements made possible through ACA rules . Since many Republican lawmakers are hesitant to repeal the Affordable Care Act , every attempt to defund Planned Parenthood by doing so has failed . <p> On the campaign trail , the Trump-Vance administration stated its intention to defund Planned Parenthood , possibly as a target of the Department of Government Efficiency . It is not a good look for the federal government to be in bed with Planned Parenthood -- and the organization 's own internal disorder makes the argument compelling . <p> The hand that rocks the boat <p> The exact amount of federal funding within Planned Parenthood 's 2022-23 income was $699.3 million . No number of government health services grants and reimbursements , however , seem to ensure that the nonprofit runs smoothly . <p> Across the country , Planned Parenthood workers ' unions have sprouted up in response to feeling overworked , stressed out , and unable to provide high-quality " care . " Since the most prominent unionization news came about in 2022 , many attribute the organization 's dysfunction to the Dobbs v. Jackson decision in June of that year . Women seeking abortions now choose to -- and are encouraged to -- travel to states that permit them , and the influx has pushed employees over the edge . Abortion " sanctuary state " statuses certainly contribute to the overwork that workers invoke . But Planned Parenthood unionizing has been public since at least 2017 . And once COVID-19 hit , employees reached their limit . The health crisis led to " essential worker " conditions that only amplified Planned Parenthood 's busy , no-lunch , low-pay environment . For employees in Pennsylvania , COVID-19 made it obvious that they were " being exploited . " <p> The pandemic , along with the significant , though proven incorrect , impression that abortion is a constitutional right , coincided with an already difficult ( some might say , conniving ) employer . The explosion of unions afterward was unavoidable . <p> In Oregon , Planned Parenthood employees felt unsupported by the organization . Service quality was down , frustration was high , and emotional content played no little role in motivating workers -- some " were in tears " upon completion of the union contract . Agreements such as a 15% pay increase and an $18 per hour minimum wage fit into this . <p> One might think that given the amount of income that Planned Parenthood reports , over $2 billion in 2022 , its problems would be better fixed by reallocation than by substantial union promises . <p> But , the people who have the best intuition for the organization 's intentions doubt the idea . It is why Oregon Planned Parenthood 's union was no one-off . Planned Parenthood of the Pacific Southwest , in California , saw similar unionization as workers claimed they had been " underpaid and overworked " and needed " better balance " in their lives . That union contract concluded also with a 15% pay raise , and a $23 per hour minimum wage . <p> Planned Parenthood North Central States has an even larger union . It represents more than 400 workers assembled behind numerous claims of burnout and union busting . The range of complaints amounts to overall poor employee treatment . One Minnesota nurse said of her coworkers , " Not a lot of them make it to the one-year mark . " More damning : " Without significant changes in how we are treated , our organization will continue to be a revolving door . " <p> It does not help that , just as identical problems of overwork sprung up at Planned Parenthood offices across the country in 2022 , a prominent regional executive issued an anti-union letter . The then-CEO of Planned Parenthood League of Massachusetts , Jennifer Childs-Roshak , discouraged employees from joining the union on the grounds that unionizing makes the organization less " flexible . " <p> Her statement communicates to the public just what its employees recognize , namely that Planned Parenthood does not actually care about using its funding well . Unions forced Planned Parenthood 's hand , and only temporarily . <p> Still ill <p> Given Planned Parenthood 's foundational eugenicism , it is not much of a surprise to hear that the organization cares little for the dignity of its workers , however undignifying the work . And while its leadership has made many a statement to convince the public of an inclusive and progressive ethos , allegations run wild . <p> As always , Planned Parenthood faces accusations of racism . Someone claims a form of discrimination from the organization just about every year . Dozens of staff have filed lawsuits . It is difficult to take claims of systemic racism seriously in today 's society -- but the claims are still there . If not systemic racism , they speak to something of the inner workings of this organization . <p> Perhaps it indicates , as already hinted by the unionization , blatant apathy for anything apart from abortion itself . Moldy facilities and alleged disability discrimination make up some of the complaints that accompany " stress , " " sobbing , " and " chaotic conditions . " <p> When one Planned Parenthood employee received a cervical cancer diagnosis , a condition to which the organization claims commitment as it counts screening for cancer among its services , her employer denied family medical leave and soon fired her . The woman sued and settled for $75,000 . <p> That was in 2017 , and there is no reason to believe that Planned Parenthood 's disposition has changed . <p> As its goals suggest , Planned Parenthood discriminates also based on pregnancy . Many women have claimed they " were scared to tell managers they were pregnant , " other employees emphasizing their own singleness or homosexuality . Other pregnant women have been denied breaks and pressed to return early to work . It might be reasonable to want to consider pregnancy during hiring and operational processes -- but that does not make it legal . <p> For Planned Parenthood , especially , to punish pregnant women for wanting to work is beyond ironic . The nonprofit organization giant leads the movement for " equal pay , " " trust women , " and " my body , my choice . " Then again , it is right in line with the hyperfocus on abortion . <p> Suffer , little children <p> Whatever their money is spent on , it is not maternity leave . Nor healthcare support , building maintenance , or an innovative business model that would help fund these things . <p> The lawyer who handled the cervical cancer suit pointed out , " There 's an assumption that when you treat women with those issues , you 'd be sympathetic to those issues . " <p> But Planned Parenthood is not sympathetic , and it does not intend to be . The fact of the matter is that , both ideally and practically , the organization 's priority is abortion . More than priority : Given the amount of income it receives , which has been upwards of $1.5 billion for at least the past five years , and the breakdown of its services , it is safe to say that abortion may be Planned Parenthood 's only object . At the mention of the organization 's defunding , the first concern most outlets wave is " low-income women without access to affordable birth control " or abortion and contraception . <p> But total contraceptive services were down 4% in 2021-22 , per an analysis of statistics from Planned Parenthood 's most recent report . Exceptionally , male sterilization was up 43% . <p> As with contraception , many of the other services that Planned Parenthood uses to claim that it offers indisposable , normal healthcare were down : Colposcopies and pap smear tests , both exams that screen for cervical cancer , each decreased 14% . Family practice services were down 1.5% , adoption referrals were down 4.5% , and telehealth appointments were down 65% from its pre-COVID-19 level . <p> Prenatal care is one statistic to note . It was up 1.2% from the previous year but down 31% from its pre-COVID-19 average . As the beacon of Planned Parenthood , abortion increased by 5% to a total of 392,715 . Abortion sweeps away any other type of service on Planned Parenthood 's agenda , along with any doubt as to where the organization directs most of its income . <p> The prenatal care total is just 1.6% the size of the abortion total . When added to the total of adoption referrals , which at times consists of advice just to " Google it , " as some recordings show , the two make up 2% of the number of abortions in the same year . <p> It could be said that , given recent years ' restrictions on abortion , of course , the numbers for most other services pale in comparison . Yet Planned Parenthood 's total services for 2021-22 declined 3.8% . It is not just that abortion is taking the place of other services because of demand : Even as the aggregate of Planned Parenthood 's services decreased , abortion increased -- and did so by 1.2 percentage points more . <p> These and similar abuses are not unknown . Groups such as Stop Planned Parenthood , the organization that provides statistical analysis of Planned Parenthood 's reports , and 40 Days for Life regularly document Planned Parenthood 's work . However , part of how the nonprofit organization succeeds is because of its linkage to progressive politics . <p> The organization adopts the left-wing default for any given issue and publishes needless statements on them , such as Black Lives Matter , transgenderism , and the Israel-Gaza war . It is how Planned Parenthood maintains blind loyalty in the face of severe disorganization . That way , Planned Parenthood is given the benefit of the doubt and can remain devoted to the singular cause of abortion -- all without protest from anyone but unwitting taxpayers . 
@@118939809 <p> Palestinians mourn over the bodies of civil defense workers victims of an Israeli army strike in the Nuseirat camp , at the Al-Aqsa Martyrs hospital in Deir al-Balah , central Gaza Strip , on Dec. 16 . Abdel Kareem Hana/Associated Press <p> DEIR AL-BALAH , Gaza Strip ( AP ) -- The death toll in the Gaza Strip from the 14-month war between Israel and Hamas militants has topped 45,000 people , Palestinian health officials said Monday , with 52 dead arriving at hospitals across the bombed-out strip over the past 24 hours . <p> The Gaza Health Ministry does not distinguish between civilians and combatants in its count , but it has said that more than half of the fatalities are women and children . The Israeli military says it has killed more than 17,000 militants , without providing evidence . <p> The Health Ministry said 45,028 people have been killed and 106,962 have been wounded since the start of the war . It has said the real toll is higher because thousands of bodies are still buried under rubble or in areas that medics can not access . The latest war has been by far the deadliest round of fighting between Israel and Hamas , with the death toll now amounting to roughly 2% of Gaza 's entire prewar population of about 2.3 million . <p> Among the dead reported in the overall toll were 10 people , including a family of four , who were killed in an overnight Israeli strike in Gaza City , Palestinian medics said . <p> Advertisement <p> The strike late Sunday hit a house in Gaza City 's eastern Shijaiyah neighborhood , according to the Health Ministry 's emergency service . Rescuers recovered the bodies of 10 people from under the rubble , including those of two parents and their two children , it said . <p> Israel claims Hamas is responsible for the civilian death toll because it operates from within civilian areas in the densely populated Gaza Strip . Rights groups and Palestinians say Israel has failed to take sufficient precautions to avoid civilian deaths . <p> The war began when Hamas-led militants stormed into southern Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , killing some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and abducting another 250 . Israel responded by heavy bombardment and a ground incursion into the Palestinian enclave . Around 100 hostages are still inside Gaza , at least a third of whom are believed to be dead . Most of the rest were released during a cease-fire last year . <p> A separate strike on a school on Sunday in the southern city of Khan Younis killed at least 13 people , including six children and two women , according to Nasser Hospital where the bodies were taken . The hospital initially reported the strike had killed 16 people , but it later revised the death toll as the three other bodies had been from a separate strike that hit a house . <p> Advertisement <p> The Israeli military said it had " conducted a precise strike on Hamas terrorists who were operating inside a command and control center embedded within a compound " that had served as a school in Khan Younis . It did not provide evidence . <p> In central Gaza 's Nuseirat urban refugee camp , mourners gathered for the funeral of a Palestinian journalist working for the Qatari-based Al Jazeera TV network who was killed Sunday in a strike on a point for Gaza 's civil defense agency . They carried his body through the street from the hospital , his blue bulletproof vest resting atop . <p> The strike also killed three civil defense workers , including the local head of the agency , according to Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital . The civil defense is Gaza 's main rescue agency and operates under the Hamas-run government . <p> Al Jazeera said Ahmad Baker Al-Louh , 39 , had been covering rescue operations of a family wounded in an earlier bombing when he was killed . <p> The International Federation of Journalists said last week that 104 journalists and media workers have been killed so far in 2024 , with more than half of them perishing during the Israel-Hamas war in the Gaza Strip . <p> The group said that since the Oct. 7 , 2023 , start of the war , at least 138 had been killed , including 55 Palestinian media professionals in the calendar year . <p> The Israeli military said its strike had targeted Hamas and Islamic Jihad militants " who were operating in a command and control center embedded in the offices of the ' Civil Defense ' organization in Nuseirat . " It accused the journalist of having been a member of Islamic Jihad , an accusation his colleagues in Gaza denied . <p> Advertisement <p> Gaza 's civil defense also rejected the claims that militants had been operating from the site . <p> " We were stunned by the Israeli occupation statement , " Mahmoud al-Lawh , the journalist 's cousin , told The Associated Press . " These claims are lies and misleading to cover up this crime . " 
@@118939911 <h> Israeli team in Doha talks on potential Gaza deal , says official <h> The talks are currently focused on bridging gaps between Israel and Hamas on the deal U.S. President Joe Biden outlined on May 31 . <p> An Israeli technical team is in Doha for working-level talks with Qatari mediators on " remaining issues " in a Gaza ceasefire and hostage release deal , an official with knowledge of the talks told Reuters on Monday . <p> Smoke rises from Gaza , amid the ongoing conflict in Gaza between Israel and Hamas , as seen from the Israeli side of the border , December 16 , 2024 . ( REUTERS ) <p> The talks are currently focused on bridging gaps between Israel and Hamas on the deal U.S. President Joe Biden outlined on May 31 , the official said . <p> Efforts by Egypt , Qatar , and the United States to reach a truce in Gaza and a release of hostages have gained momentum in recent weeks , though there has been no breakthrough . <p> The three countries have , for more than a year , led rounds of so-far fruitless talks to broker an end to the 14-month-long war in Gaza . <p> In previous rounds , disagreements over new demands that Israel introduced about its future military presence in Gaza obstructed a deal , even after Hamas accepted a version of the proposal Biden introduced in May . <p> A round of talks in mid-October failed to produce a deal , with Hamas rejecting a short-term ceasefire proposal . 
@@118966817 <h> Globe music writers share their favorite albums of 2024 <p> The ways we find and engage with music are changing . While it 's still always possible to hear a great new track on the radio , listeners are now just as likely to have an algorithm suggest a new artist to them on a streaming service , or to learn about a song after it goes viral on TikTok . What has n't changed is how much good , exciting music comes out each year . We asked Boston Globe music writers to tell us 50 of their favorite albums of 2024 , and the results range from folk pop to death metal to cumbia to pop . We hope you spot some of your favorites on here , but also that you find new music to love . What was your favorite album of the year ? Let us know in the comments below . <p> 1 . Beth Gibbons , " Lives Outgrown , " Chamber folk-pop <p> The bewitching voice of Portishead explores more organic , less electronic pathways on her solo debut . Like a lighter but no less ominous version of the Irish band Lankum , Gibbons 's songs ( she wrote them all , some with drummer Lee Harris ) conjure visions of deep forest secrets . Collaborator James Ford adds a textural understory -- cello , vibraphone , singing saw . A nominee for this year 's Mercury Prize , " Lives Outgrown " is , as Gibbons has said , a response to the recent deaths of several friends and family members . We can hear their echoes . ( James Sullivan ) <p> Get Starting Point <p> A guide through the most important stories of the morning , delivered Monday , Wednesday , and Friday . <p> " This ai n't a Country album . This is a Beyonc ? album , " one of the world 's biggest pop stars explained in a statement before releasing her eighth studio album in March . Bey effortlessly flexed her sonic prowess on " Cowboy Carter " as she served up airy wistfulness on songs like " BODYGUARD , " and then took us directly to the hoedown with " RIIVERDANCE . " With guest appearances from the likes of Dolly Parton , Willie Nelson , and Shaboozey , it 's also her most magnanimous offering to date . ( Candace McDuffie ) <p> Menacing and wounded , claustrophobic and spare -- the third album from the Los Angeles bedroom-pop megastar revels in its contradictions , from its title through its headphone-ready sonics . Eilish 's defiant walking of her own path has made her one of music 's most compelling stars , and the compact , intricate " HIT ME HARD AND SOFT " continues her evolution as a vocalist ( on " BIRDS OF A FEATHER , " she summons newfound power in crushing vulnerability ) while also sounding deliciously dark . ( Maura Johnston ) <p> While the typical death metal band fixates on matters of gore or the grave , Denver 's Blood Incantation cast their gaze to the skies . On " Absolute Elsewhere , " the group contemplate heady notions of time , space , consciousness , and the very nature of being via blisteringly heavy riffage and an embrace of vintage prog-rock and electronic textures . Thorsten Quaeschning , current leader of pioneering German synth outfit Tangerine Dream , even drops in for a guest spot . By turns brutal and beautiful , " Elsewhere " is an assertion of the quartet 's well-deserved position at the forefront of American metal . ( Ben Stas ) <p> 5 . Brittany Howard , " What Now , " Alternative <p> While the Alabama Shakes were at the height of their powers , Howard left the band in 2019 and released her solo debut . Then a pandemic hit . She asked herself , " What now ? " That question became her follow-up . The answer was whatever she wants -- from twilight ballads like " To Be Still " to dance grooves like " Prove It to You . " Her ideas , full of color and life , are as powerful as her voice . ( Julian Benbow ) <p> 6 . Britti , " Hello , I 'm Britti. , " Country-soul <p> Dan Auerbach seems to have a talent for midwifing modern permutations of classic country-soul ( and for doing it with singers who go by a single name ) . First it was Yola five years ago ; this year he combined forces with Brittany Guerin , who performs as Britti . Her stunning debut record , " Hello , I 'm Britti. , " is one long , simmering groove , fueled by her tremulous voice , from the start to the end of its 11 songs . ( Stuart Munro ) <p> Supposedly this jangle-punk group from coastal Wales first came to life as blues-rockers . Hard to imagine , given their frantic , and frankly delirious , approach to pop songwriting . They do tend to repeat phrases , but not in the bluesy AAB way . " Everybody thinks they look a bit like James Bond , " Sam Willmett and Tilly Harris chant over and over , like they 're hanging from their knees on a jungle gym . Welcome to a world in which the Strokes were uncool enough to be class clowns . ( James Sullivan ) <p> 8 . Charley Crockett , " $10 Cowboy , " Classic country <p> " Some people come in the back door , " Charley Crockett told the Globe back in 2019 . " Others dig a hole through the basement . " At age 40 , with 10 years of " hoboing " under his belt and nearly 10 more cranking out more than a dozen albums , this country-soul original has finally broken through to the main stage . He calls his ace backing band the Blue Drifters , named , presumably , for Crockett 's melancholy moods ( " America , " " Ai n't Done Losing Yet " ) and Hank Williams 's alter-ego . ( James Sullivan ) <p> " BRAT " summer ? More like the year of the " BRAT . " From the moment that Charli XCX dropped " Von dutch , " the braggadocious lead single of what would become her most consequential album to date , the pop singer was speaking her cultural domination into existence . When her 2022 record " Crash " did n't deliver the mainstream renown it was engineered for , XCX threw the messiness of modern fame and womanhood at the wall with " BRAT " -- and it stuck . The result is swaggering electro-pop that finds catharsis through sweat-slicked " Club classics " and heart-piercing confessionals . Both are " BRAT , " both are brilliant -- and pop culture will be " bumpin ' that " indefinitely . ( Victoria Wasylak ) <p> Advertisement <p> 10 . Charlie Kohlhase , " A Second Life , " Jazz <p> Saxophonist and composer Kohlhase , a mainstay of the Boston scene for decades , poured a lifetime of experience into this " second life " ( following his diagnosis as HIV positive ) . He matches his own well-turned compositions with those by friends and mentors John Tchicai and Roswell Rudd , as well as Elmo Hope and Ornette Coleman . Played by an octet of longtime Kohlhase comrades , the forms swing with relaxed assurance and buzz with happy free-form chatter . ( Jon Garelick ) <p> 11 . Chuck Prophet with ? Qiensave ? , " Wake the Dead , " Cumbia <p> Who could have predicted this left turn ? Sparked by an obsession with cumbia music , and then by that obsession getting him through treatment for lymphoma , Prophet began jamming with cumbia band ? Qiensave ? . They did a couple of live dates , and then Prophet brought together that band and his own Mission Express to make " Wake the Dead . " What emerged is a phenomenal mashup of Prophet 's songwriting prowess with the cumbia and other Latin flavors imparted by his collaborators . ( Stuart Munro ) <p> Absent from most streaming services , initially distributed via a Geocities web page and clocking in at 32 songs over two hours , sonic architect Patrick Flegel 's 2024 opus under the Cindy Lee moniker defies convention at almost every turn . Its word-of-mouth buzz across the year hearkens back to an earlier , simpler Internet music culture , while its distinctively reverb-drenched tunes conjure an eerie sense of bygone Americana that feels far removed from the internet era altogether . It 's a timeline and a universe unto itself -- at first imposing , eventually intoxicating . ( Ben Stas ) <p> Advertisement <p> 13 . Dawn Richard and Spencer Zahn , " Quiet in a World Full of Noise , " Soul/modern classical <p> The second collaboration between New Orleans funk futurist Dawn Richard and modern classical composer Spencer Zahn finds comfort in the spaces between the notes and discovers satisfaction in being fully present with oneself . On the self-affirming title track , Richard 's resonant alto is buttressed by Zahn 's glassy piano chords before folding in on itself , underscoring her desire to live defiantly as herself ; the fluttering , cleansing " To Remove " combines minimalist poetry with hazy sonics . Richard and Zahn have created a stunning escape that runs 37 minutes , but has long-term effects . ( Maura Johnston ) <p> 14 . Doechii , " Alligator Bites Never Heal , " Hip hop/rap <p> The rapper who infamously dubbed herself the " trap Grace Jones " poured her soul into her infectious mixtape , " Alligator Bites Never Heal . " Released on Kendrick Lamar 's former label Top Dawg Entertainment , Doechii 's latest project is her most raw and ambitious to date . While her discography contains songs like the lustrous and radio-friendly " What It Is ( Block Boy ) , " " Alligator Bites Never Heal " flipped that formula on its head . Whether it was the old school fundamentals of " BOOM BAP " or the pervasive sleekness of " NISSAN ALTIMA , " the Tampa native rose to the occasion in the most beguiling of ways . ( Candace McDuffie ) <p> 15 . Fontaines D.C. , " Romance , " Indie/alternative rock <p> On the fourth full-length from Ireland 's Fontaines D.C. , the band expands the horizons of their signature post-punk toward both the darkness and the light . The unwholesome side of devotion compels singer Grian Chatten on the title track , which creeps along with a tense unease , before lead single " Starburster " explodes into a head-spinning , trip-hop-flavored evocation of a panic attack . But lying in wait elsewhere are wistful and dreamlike asides , and a brilliantly jangly closer that sounds like a new band entirely . Casting aside their genre bonds , " Romance " finds Fontaines making their most colorful and unpredictable music yet . ( Ben Stas ) <p> 16 . Fred Hersch , " Silent , Listening , " Jazz <p> Hersch 's latest solo outing has the vibe of an intimate , late night session , as if you were eavesdropping on the great pianist 's innermost thoughts . They include a handful of standards and a clutch of improvisations , with the latter featuring some strikingly dissonant harmonies . They 're all stripped to the essentials and rendered with Hersch 's trademark pellucid touch , so that each note lands with quiet power . ( David Weininger ) <p> 17 . Ghost Funk Orchestra , " A Trip to the Moon , " Jazz/funk <p> This 2024 release from Seth Applebaum and his Ghost Funk Orchestra project sounds like a Lalo Schifrin soundtrack to a ' 70s sci-fi movie that does n't exist . The loosely conceptual album was sparked by Applebaum 's discovery that recordings of astronaut communications on various Apollo space flights had been placed in the public domain . He grabbed chunks of those recordings and used them to tie together slices of big-band jazz and funk , some of it instrumental , some featuring fantastic work from twin vocalists Romi Hanoch and Megan Mancini . Brilliantly conceived , and perfectly executed . ( Stuart Munro ) <p> 18 . Grupo Frontera , " Jugando a que no Pasa Nada , " Latin <p> This Texas Tejano music combo rocketed from playing backyard parties to arenas ( as well as Harvard , where they were honored by a student group ) . Their accessible sound is rooted in Mexican cumbias norte ? as , but is modern and versatile enough to generate collaborations with reggaeton stars like Bad Bunny and , on this album , Maluma . On their sophomore record , Grupo Frontera keep the party eclectic , playing everything from cowboy songs to " Desquite , " a fiery electro collaboration with Argentine rapper Nicki Nicole . ( Noah Schaffer ) <p> 19 . Hinds , " VIVA HINDS , " Garage rock <p> Hinds may have split in half last year , slimming the band down to the best friend duo of Ana Perrote and Carlotta Cosials , but " VIVA HINDS " proves the Madrid band 's buoyant garage rock has n't lost any bounce in the rearrangement . Even its more subdued moments are exuberant -- like the lush " Bon Voyage " -- and Hinds ' fourth album prioritizes fun over all else , whirring through adulthood with a backdrop of blithe , hooky rock as their playground . ( Victoria Wasylak ) <p> 20 . Holly Humberstone , " Work in Progress , " Bedroom pop <p> Theoretically , this four-song collection of leftover scraps from before the release of last year 's marvelous full-length debut , " Paint My Bedroom Black , " should play like a step backward for Humberstone . But it 's the context that makes all the difference in the world , and the English singer 's pointed but gentle and openhearted paeans to loneliness , isolation , and heartbreak on " Work in Progress " carry a substantially different weight , given what lay just over the horizon for her . The young woman cobbling together her communiques from her bedroom is about to accomplish wonderful things , and we get to hear her inch toward them . ( Marc Hirsh ) <p> Jamie BaumErika Kapin Photography <p> 21 . Jamie Baum Septet+ , " What Times Are These , " Jazz <p> The esteemed jazz flutist and composer Jamie Baum responded to the COVID-19 shutdown by reading poetry and writing music . The result is this sublime suite mixing spoken and sung texts with instrumentals . The poets include Adrienne Rich , Marge Piercy , and Tracy K. Smith , with singer/speakers including Theo Bleckmann , Aubrey Johnson , and Sara Serpa , plus Baum 's stellar Septet+ . ( Jon Garelick ) <p> 22 . JasonMartin and DJ Quik , " CHUPACABRA , " Rap <p> While Kendrick Lamar put the West on his shoulders , JasonMartin ( formerly known as Problem ) has quietly rebranded himself into one of that coast 's sharpest curators , respected enough to team up with Compton legend DJ Quick , connected enough to pull The Game , Sugar Free , and George Clinton into the fray , and in tune enough to tap Meet The Whoops , Larry June , and Ab-Soul in for a project that time travels through nearly four decades of California sounds while staying present and looking forward . ( Julian Benbow ) <p> 23 . Kali Uchis , " ORQU ? DEAS , " Reggaeton/synth-pop <p> When Kali Uchis released her album " ORQU ? DEAS " in January , the seedlings of her next project -- August 's " ORQU ? DEAS PARTE 2 " -- were already in the soil . The extension of " ORQU ? DEAS " ( " Orchids " in Spanish ) builds upon the superstar-stacked first edition of the record , deepening its richly-textured mix of reggaeton , R&amp;B , and synth-pop with a trio of new songs . Each addition is a sultry brush with a different facet of romance : uncensored sensuality ( " Adicto " ) , tenderness ( " Simple " ) , and lifelong yearning ( " Como Debe Ser " ) . A remix of " Young Rich &amp; in Love " from KAYTRANADA rounds out the Virginia singer 's refreshed bouquet . ( Victoria Wasylak ) <p> After his high-profile beef with Drake dominated the cultural zeitgeist for all of 2024 , Kendrick Lamar basked in the role of rap 's biggest supervillain on " GNX . " His last album , " Mr. Morale &amp; the Big Steppers , " showed the emcee battling his biggest demons even as his self-awareness became nearly crippling . However , on his latest project , Lamar opted to embrace his inner petty . From the mariachi musings on the theatrical " wacced out murals " to the hyphy cool of " tv off , " the Pulitzer Prize-winning artist made being an anti-hero enviable . ( Candace McDuffie ) <p> As the Belfast trio slips back and forth between languages ( English and Irish ) , their accents in both attack the cadences of rap from directions they 've rarely been touched before . The topics range from Irish self-determination to the desire to get whacked out on any number of substances , and the musical backdrops provided by DJ Pr ? va ? treat the listener 's brain like a metal barrel that he 's dropping a thousand ball bearings into before shaking rapidly . It 's a wild ride when it 's on , even if you ca n't remember it as soon as it 's over . That 's OK ; neither can Kneecap , probably . ( Marc Hirsh ) <p> 26 . Kris Davis , " Run the Gauntlet , " Jazz <p> Call this Kris Davis 's power-trio record . Following her wide-ranging Diatom Ribbons project , the 44-year-old pianist and composer joined forces with previous-generation masters Robert Hurst ( bass ) and Johnathan Blake ( drums ) . There are plenty of pianistic fireworks and hard-driving grooves as well as more impressionistic explorations , but the real juice here is in the band 's three-way push-pull through Davis 's sparkling compositions ( and one beauty by Blake ) . ( Jon Garelick ) <p> 27 . Kyshona , " Legacy , " Soul/blues <p> A marvel of respect , research , and roots , Kyshona 's April album , " Legacy , " is where care meets family lore . The Nashville artist cradles five generations -- culled straight from The Smithsonian Institute 's National Museum of African American History &amp; Culture -- and her own stories within this blues-streaked labor of love . Kyshona fits figures from across her lineage into 16 tracks , yet " Legacy " never feels compressed . Quite the opposite ; it 's an expansive tribute whose soul-stirring melodies resurrect the past with striking clarity . ( Victoria Wasylak ) <p> 28 . La Do ? a , " Los Altos de la Soledad , " Latin <p> This Bay Area **27;1074;TOOLONG was raised in a family that included mariachi musicians and United Farm Workers activists . Both of those streams come through loud and clear in her creative and sincere debut LP . She sings about her musical life accompanied by brilliantly orchestrated mariachi trumpets in " Confesiones . " " Corrido Palestina " uses the traditional Mexican topical music form to address the situation in Gaza , while " C ? rrales " is a reggaeton and hip-hop commentary on police construction . ( Noah Schaffer ) <p> Singer , songwriter , actor , and charmer Lainey Wilson dubs her blend of country , soul , Southern rock , and **30;1103;TOOLONG romanticism " bell-bottom country , " and her fifth full-length is the latest piece of proof that she 's tapped into a winning formula . Lovelorn cuts like the gently giddy " Counting Chickens " show off her sweet side , while " Bar in Baton Rouge " channels day-drinking-borne regrets into an arena-ready country-rock epic . Wilson 's latest album might have arrived at a moment when , as she sings , " Country 's Cool Again , " but her infectious charm and keen songwriting would make her honky-tonk a place to be no matter what the reigning pop-music mood . ( Maura Johnston ) <p> 30 . Liniker , " CAJU , " Latin <p> A new generation of Brazilian stars are starting to make an impact in the US , thanks to booty shakers like Pabllo Vittar and Anitta . The most grand artistic statement in Brazilian music this year came from Liniker , who was the first trans artist to win a Latin Grammy . Her sultry voice and deeply moving lyrics have a strong R&amp;B tilt , occasionally mixed with the Afro-Brazilian Pagode rhythms that she grew up with . ( Noah Schaffer ) <p> On the surface , " Samurai " is a light , jazz-drenched walk in the park for Lupe . But peel back the layers -- and Lupe is nothing if not layered -- and you discover that the jazz is part of a narrative crafted to explore the " what-if " of Amy Winehouse as a battle rapper . Nine albums in , Lupe is both imaginative and free . ( Julian Benbow ) <p> 32 . Mdou Moctar , " Funeral for Justice , " Desert blues <p> We 've been blessed in recent years with an influx of thrilling music from Africa -- specifically , the guitar-heavy desert blues of the Saharan countries . Etran De L'A ? r , Tinariwen , Bombino : they 're all worth celebrating . But this Tuareg bandleader 's cosmic racket is in a class by itself . His second album for Matador Records ( sixth overall ) may be his best yet . Moctar 's entrancing songs often follow a simple formula -- mid-tempo beginnings that ramp up to a breakneck pace . As if time is running out . ( James Sullivan ) <p> 33 . MJ Lenderman , " Manning Fireworks , " Alt-country <p> You 'd be hard pressed to find a more quotable 2024 LP than singer-songwriter MJ Lenderman 's " Manning Fireworks . " Rendered in fiddle , pedal steel , and shades of Crazy Horse , the nine-song collection weaves left-field pop-culture references ( a vision of a certain Disney-Pixar character with a drinking problem ) and oddball turns of phrase ( the instantly memorable " houseboat docked at the Himbo-Dome " ) into a highlight reel of lyrical gems . Meanwhile , glimpses of heartbreak beg the question of where Lenderman the fictionist ends and Lenderman the main character begins . The end result lands at a sweet spot of tossed-off wisdom and genuine pathos . ( Ben Stas ) <p> 34 . Nduduzo Makhathini , " uNomkhubulwane , " South African jazz <p> Like John Coltrane 's " A Love Supreme , " the latest album from this South African pianist is made up not of songs but movements : " Libations , " " Water Spirits , " and " Inner Attainment . " His third release for Blue Note following a decade of self-releases , the album title refers to the Zulu goddess of rain , nature , light , and fertility . Sometimes accompanied by his own spoken word meditations , this music sounds like both a seamless fit with the jazz label 's legendary catalog and a departure into the uncertain years ahead . ( James Sullivan ) <p> 35 . Nick Lowe , " Indoor Safari , " Pop <p> Nick Lowe has n't released an album in over a decade , but if " Indoor Safari " is any indication , he just keeps getting better with age . This is the first record he 's made with the masked men in Los Straitjackets , who 've been serving as his touring band for several years . It is vintage late-period Lowe , chock full of his inimitable , razor-sharp combination of sardonic wit , heart-on-sleeve sentiments , and wry self-deprecation wedded to sometimes country-flecked , sometimes soul-steeped classic pop music . At 75 , Nick Lowe is back , making pure pop for now people again . ( Stuart Munro ) <p> 36 . Nil ? fer Yanya , " Method Actor , " Rock/R&amp;B <p> This British singer-songwriter interrogates the relationship between her public and private selves on her third album , which combines sumptuous grooves with stinging guitar riffs and Yanya 's smoke-plume voice . Simmering cuts like the shapeshifting " Like I Say ( I runaway ) " and the high-wire-act " Mutations " give " My Method Actor " heat , while Yanya 's lyrics , which deftly combine surrealism and self-laceration , invite listeners to dig even deeper . ( Maura Johnston ) <p> 37 . Rapsody , " Please Do n't Cry , " Rap <p> The path Rapsody has walked for more than a decade has become so narrow that it 's become her own lane . As much as women have dominated mainstream rap recently , no one has been as committed to gracefully , thoughtfully , and soulfully examining love -- from ludus to agape -- while also remaining dangerously sharp lyrically . ( Julian Benbow ) <p> 38 . Renacer ? , " Superf ? nicos , " Latin <p> This Colombia-via-Austin 's band says it wants its audience to " let go and embrace an experience that is more connected to the earth and our ancestors . " " Renacer ? " accomplishes this mission with ferocious grooves that update the Latin funk sound that soared in the ' 70s , while capturing the energetic vibe of this music that often eludes bands who try to retain their live energy in the studio . ( Noah Schaffer ) <p> Riley MulherkarZenith Richards <p> 39 . Riley Mulherkar , " Riley , " Jazz <p> Studio manipulation paradoxically turned Westerlies trumpeter Riley Mulherkar 's solo debut into one of the most intimate and emotionally expressive jazz releases of the year . The mix of electronic effects with close-miked foot stomps and Mulherkar 's breaths created a unique " live " room for " King Porter Stomp , " " Stardust , " some sharp originals , and a hair-raising performance of the gospel hymn " No More , " with singer Vuyo Sotashe . ( Jon Garelick ) <p> 40 . Ron Miles , " Old Main Chapel , " Jazz <p> When Miles , a Denver-based cornet player , died of a rare blood disorder in 2022 , the music world lost an artist whose inventiveness stood in inverse proportion to his ego -- a soulful improviser who was just starting to attract the kind of attention he 'd long deserved but never sought . Here is a touching memorial : a luminous 2011 concert at the University of Colorado Boulder in the company of guitarist Bill Frisell and drummer Brian Blade , both prized collaborators . They all play for the rapport rather than the spotlight , but a close listen reveals Miles 's own poignant voice , singing right through . ( David Weininger ) <p> 41 . ScHoolboy Q , " Blue Lips , " Rap <p> Caught at a crossroads between conceptual and commercial , ScHoolboy Q was ready to walk away from rap , play golf , and take his daughter to soccer games . With attention-spans blown to bits , he wondered if there was still room for someone who treated street rap like high art . That became the premise for his fifth album , which ca n't hold a thought longer than 45 seconds and knows its listeners ca n't either . He sinks into survivors ' guilt , but celebrates himself for making it . He two-steps to soul grooves , and swerves into thumping Three 6 Mafia samples . If IG reels were albums , this would be it . ( Julian Benbow ) <p> Shaboozey 's history-making single , " A Bar Song ( Tipsy ) , " brilliantly interpolated J-Kwon 's 20-year-old club anthem with the star 's modern country sprightliness . " Where I 've Been , Is n't Where I 'm Going " is n't a declarative statement as much as it is an evolution of an artist who worked hard to find his creative footing . In 2024 , Shaboozey undeniably hit his stride , with an appearance on Beyonc ? ' s " Cowboy Carter " serving as solid confirmation of this . In short , his groundbreaking year was long overdue . ( Candace McDuffie ) <p> 2021 's " Daddy 's Home " was , by St. Vincent 's standards ( and nobody else 's ) , a disappointment . " All Born Screaming " is a retrenchment , and if it merely recapitulates her myriad strengths , my goodness , what strengths to recapitulate . The songs swerve kaleidoscopically , hard in " Flea " and so delicately in " Hell Is Near " that she 's practically floating . The terrifying stasis of " Reckless " is driven by agonized numbness , a contradiction if there ever was one , but St. Vincent has never shied away from contradictions and the tension therein . " What are you looking at ? , " she spits as a corroded guitar chord calls attention to her , and it 's hard to turn away . ( Marc Hirsh ) <p> 45 . Swamp Dogg , " Black Grass , " Bluegrass <p> Jerry Williams , a.k.a . Swamp Dogg , is best known as soul music 's most idiosyncratic and wildly funny voice . Now , a half-century after he co-wrote the Johnny Paycheck smash " She 's All I Got , " he 's returned to twang with a crew of bluegrass super pickers like Sierra Hull and Jerry Douglas . Jenny Lewis is an ideal duet foil on " Count the Days , " a tune Williams wrote for Patti LaBelle and the Bluebelles in the ' 60s , which just goes to show there was always some country in his soulful story songs . ( Noah Schaffer ) <p> Sixteen years after their last studio record , The Cure return to prove they have n't lost a single gloomy step . " Songs of a Lost World " operates firmly in the sweeping gothic drama that defines some of the band 's best-loved work , but adds new layers of resonance with the years . Frontman Robert Smith 's achingly personal writing is at its best on majestic opener " Alone " and " I Can Never Say Goodbye " -- composed for the singer 's late brother -- and the band 's towering rhythms and shimmering backdrops accompany him as strikingly as ever . It 's downcast music , but it soars on a remarkable late-career triumph . ( Ben Stas ) <p> Mila de la Garza ( left ) and Eloise Wong of The Linda Lindas at the 33rd annual KROQ Almost Acoustic Christmas 2024 at The Kia Forum on Dec. 14 , 2024 in Inglewood , Calif.Kevin Winter/Getty Images for Audacy <p> The Linda Lindas channeled raucous fury on their second full-length album , " No Obligation . " The quartet , consisting of guitarists Bela Salazar and Lucia de la Garza , drummer Mila de la Garza , and bassist/pianist Eloise Wong , delivered songs that were jolting breaths of fresh air . None of the album 's tracks are over four minutes long -- but each one was uniquely memorable . From the savory melodies of " All In My Head " to frenetic energy " Resolution/Revolution , " these pop-punk rockers are carving out their niche in the music industry . ( Candace McDuffie ) <p> 48 . The Smile , " Cutouts , " Rock <p> One can only imagine how liberating it must be for Thom Yorke and Jonny Greenwood to make music with ace drummer Tom Skinner : The Smile 's output -- three albums over 2 ? years -- dwarfs that of any phase of Radiohead 's career . On their latest , the textures , references , and song structures get weirder and more diverse ( ' 80s synths ? Check . Windows 95 name drop ? Check . ) . But these are pop songs , no matter how unconventional the trappings , all rendered in Yorke 's inescapably beautiful voice . Choice track : " Zero Sum " ( David Weininger ) <p> 49 . Tish Melton , " When We 're Older , " Folk-pop <p> Tish Melton 's Brandi Carlile-produced debut sounds like the first excited flush of someone speaking up after spending her whole life holding her tongue . But the 17-year-old is n't interested in lashing out or settling scores . Instead , she tenderly but firmly insists that she has something to say , whether it 's the openhearted acceptance of " Damage " or the sad defiance of walking away from a friendship in " The Chase . " " When We 're Older " marks Melton 's first steps toward not just adulthood but being her own person , and she takes them with grace . ( Marc Hirsh ) <p> 50 . TORRES , " What An Enormous Room , " Indie pop <p> " Did I hit a nerve ? , " Mackenzie Scott repeats over and over in " Collect , " and the spacious , warmly overdriven whir of the songs on " What an enormous room " are delivered with a glower that suggests she 's not all that bothered by it . With frictionless , superficially impassive vocals and a crisp snap even to the wilder tracks , TORRES occupies a middle ground between St. Vincent and Caroline Polachek ( the latter recalled best in the heartburst of " Jerk into joy " ) . She 's an artist captured repeatedly in the thrall of her feelings , for good and for ill . And she 's curious enough to see where it takes her . ( Marc Hirsh ) 
@@118968800 <h> Lawsuit accuses State Department of creating loopholes for Israel on military aid and human rights <h> A lawsuit by a group of Palestinians in Gaza and American relatives accuses the State Department of giving Israel a pass when it comes to a U.S. law meant to limit military aid over human rights abuses <p> WASHINGTON ( AP ) -- The State Department has carved out loopholes for Israel that give the close American ally a pass on U.S. law that restricts aid to foreign militaries over human rights abuses , a lawsuit from a group of Palestinians in Gaza and American relatives asserts Tuesday . <p> Former State Department officials and crafters of the 1997 Leahy law were among those advising and backing the lawsuit . <p> The lawsuit details the barriers it accuses the State Department of creating on behalf of Israel to skirt enforcement and asks courts to intervene . That is after campus protests and moves by some lawmakers failed in their goal of limiting U.S. military support to Israel over civilian deaths in Gaza during the war with Hamas . <p> " It 's really a modest set of goals here : There 's a U.S. law . We 'd like the federal government to adhere to U.S. law , " said Ahmed Moor , a Philadelphia-based Palestinian American who joined the lawsuit on behalf of cousins , uncles and aunts displaced and killed in the 14-month war . <p> Secretary of State Antony Blinken has denied that the department has given Israel a pass . " Do we have a double standard ? The answer is no , " he said in April . The department did n't immediately comment Tuesday . <p> Israel says it makes every effort to limit harm to Palestinian civilians in its military operations . The Biden administration has warned Israel to do more to spare civilians in the Gaza war , holding back one known weapons shipment of 2,000-pound bombs . <p> A State Department report in May concluded there was " reasonable " evidence that Israel 's use of U.S.-provided weapons in Gaza violated international law that protects civilians but bypassed a decision on limiting arms , saying the war itself made it impossible for U.S. officials to judge for certain . It also declined last month to hold back arms transfers as it had threatened over humanitarian aid to Gaza . <p> The law bars U.S. military assistance to foreign military units when there is credible evidence of gross human rights abuses . <p> Charles Blaha , a former State Department official who helped oversee reviews under the Leahy law , argued that enforcing the law for Israel would have prevented much of the harm that civilians in Gaza are suffering . <p> " The secretary of state has made all the decisions so far on Israel and the Leahy Law , and every single decision has resulted in those units being eligible " for continued U.S. military support , Blaha said . " And that 's not the way the normal process works . " <p> U.S. military support to Israel in the light of Palestinian civilian deaths was a fraught issue in the presidential election . Republicans and many Democrats demanded unwavering military backing to Israel . The Biden administration 's refusal to limit support cost Democrats some votes from some Arab and Muslim voters and others . <p> Tuesday 's lawsuit is part of a last push on the outgoing Biden administration by Muslim Americans and others to limit U.S. military support to Israel , which is estimated to have reached $17.9 billion in the first year of the war -- over its treatment of Palestinian civilians . <p> Two former Senate staffers , Tim Reiser and Stephen Rickard , were instrumental in crafting the law named for former Democratic Sen. Patrick Leahy and said the rising death toll in Gaza warranted the court case . <p> The nonprofit Democracy for the Arab World Now , an Arab-rights group founded by slain Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi , helped bring the lawsuit for five Palestinians and Palestinian Americans . The plaintiffs include a former Gaza math teacher and humanitarian worker now living in a tent after losing 20 family members and being uprooted seven times . <p> Hamas militants began the war with an Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack in Israel , killing about 1,200 people and taking some 250 hostages , some of whom are still being held . The Gaza health ministry , which does not distinguish between combatants and civilians in its death tolls , said the war has killed 45,000 Palestinians . <p> The lawsuit was filed under the Administrative Procedures Act . Groups ranging from immigration advocates , Medicare groups , petroleum giants and fishermen have used the law in the past to try to shape how U.S. public agencies enforce laws . <p> It accuses State Department officials under President Joe Biden of creating a series of high barriers when vetting Israel 's military for Leahy law violations . Former State officials , including Blaha , have accused the U.S. of effectively exempting Israel from enforcement , and the lawsuit offers some details for the first time . <p> It claims obstacles include setting up a multimember committee from the State and Defense departments in 2020 solely to consider possible violations by the Israeli military and uniquely requiring the deputy secretary of state to sign off on any findings of violations . <p> The process also carves out an additional loophole for Israel , the lawsuit says , giving its government alone a chance to stave off a restriction of military support over a human rights abuses by showing it has addressed the problem . <p> The State Department used that exception in August , saying it had decided against cutting off aid to an Israeli military unit in the West Bank over grave human rights abuses because it removed two responsible soldiers from combat and committed to special training and oversight of remaining members . The unit was accused in the death of a 79-year-old Palestinian American man it had taken into custody . <p> On Monday , Blinken met at the State Department with the family of another American , 26-year-old Seattle resident Aysenur Ezgi Eygi , who was shot and killed after taking part in a demonstration in the West Bank in September . <p> Blinken told the family that Israel had recently informed the U.S. it was wrapping up its investigation of her death , State Department spokesman Matthew Miller told reporters Monday . <p> State officials in the 50-minute meeting " kept repeating this frankly kind of bogus claim of it being an accident , " widower Hamid Ali said after the meeting . <p> U.S. officials told the family they did not yet know enough details to say whether the family 's demands for an independent U.S. criminal investigation were warranted , Ali said . <p> Copyright 2024 The Associated Press . All rights reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten or redistributed without permission . <h> Watch this discussion.Stop watching this discussion . <h> ( 0 ) comments <h> Welcome to the discussion . <p> Keep it Clean . Please avoid obscene , vulgar , lewd , racist or sexually-oriented language.PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.Do n't Threaten . Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.Be Truthful . Do n't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.Be Nice . No racism , sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.Be Proactive . Use the ' Report ' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us . We 'd love to hear eyewitness accounts , the history behind an article . 
@@118974601 <h> Analysis : Trump signals foreign policy will run through him despite nominee noise <h> One word stood out again and again during Trump 's interview with Time : " I. " His answers suggest his nominees likely would be in the business of implementing his policy desires , rather than making their own . <h> Share this : <p> President-elect Donald Trump speaks at a reception at the New York Stock Exchange after being named TIME 's " Person of the Year " for the second time on Dec.12 , 2024 , in New York City . ( Spencer Platt/Getty Images/TNS ) <p> Much Sturm und Drang has surrounded some of Donald Trump 's picks for national security and foreign policy positions , but the president-elect has made clear that all matters of war and diplomacy will run through him . <p> President Joe Biden , who huddled with other G7 leaders Friday morning , has had a message for Trump since he won a second term last month : Resist your instinct to turn away from America 's allies . <p> John Kirby , White House national security communications adviser , described Friday 's G7 session as focused on the leaders ' " shared support to Ukraine , " including the use of a World Bank fund to deliver billions in economic aid to the war-torn country . He also told reporters Thursday that Biden had " made clear , we 're going to continue to provide additional packages right up until the end of this administration . " <p> The soon-to-be-47th president has always been skeptical of -- and sometimes combative with -- international entities . And he hardly has committed to continuing U.S. economic and military aid to Ukraine , including during his " Person of the Year " interview with Time magazine . <p> " I 'm going to try and help Ukraine but Europe has to get there also and do their job . They 're not doing their job , " the incoming commander in chief said . " Europe is not paying their fair share . ... But they 've taken advantage of us , both on NATO and on Ukraine . We 're in for billions of dollars more than they 're in in Ukraine . It should n't be that way . " <p> On Capitol Hill in recent weeks , throngs of reporters and television cameras have followed Trump 's picks for Defense secretary , national intelligence director , secretary of State and other global affairs-focused posts . Senators have peppered them with policy questions during private meetings , eager for their views on foreign relations and national security matters . <p> But one word stood out again and again during Trump 's interview with Time : " I. " His answers suggest his nominees likely would be in the business of implementing his policy desires , rather than making their own . <p> " I hope it can be pointed out that during my term , there were stories that Iran did n't have the money to give to any -- there was very little terrorism . We had none . I had four years of -- we had no terrorism , " he said . " We did n't have a World Trade Center knocked down . You know , George W. Bush used to say , ' Well , we 've been a safe country . ' I said , ' They knocked down the World Trade Center in the middle of your term . ' " <p> ( Fact checkers have termed Trump 's claims of no terrorism under his presidency as false . ) <h> ' I built the embassy ' <p> Trump , signaling he would soon usher in a more forceful tone as diplomat in chief toward friends and foes alike , suggested he would offer more constructive criticism to Israeli officials , including Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . <p> " I think that Israel has done one thing very badly : public relations . I do n't think that the Israel Defense Forces or any other group should be sending out pictures every night of buildings falling down and being bombed with possibly people in those buildings every single night , which is what they do , " he said . <p> On the Iran nuclear accord negotiated under President Barack Obama : " I ended that deal . " On his administration moving the U.S. Embassy in Israel to Jerusalem : " I did the embassy and in Jerusalem . Jerusalem became the capital . " On a new main American diplomatic facility there : " I built the embassy . I even built the embassy . " <p> It seems in Trump 's view during his second transition , the " I 's " have it . <p> That includes issuing a few warnings for Netanyahu , whom Biden has granted wide latitude in conducting the wars in Gaza and Lebanon . <p> " Well , I had a bad experience with Bibi . And it had to do with Soleimani , because as you probably know by now , he dropped out just before the attack , " Trump told Time , referring to his claim that Netayahu 's government had agreed to help U.S. forces in an operation that ultimately killed Iranian Gen. Qasem Soleimani , who led the elite Quds Force of the country 's Revolutionary Guard . " I was not happy about that . That was something I never forgot . And it showed me something . " <p> He also said Israelis who blame Netanyahu for Hamas ' Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack on their soil were correct , adding that he would be able to work with other top Israeli officials such as Benny Gantz , a former IDF general who was previously the country 's defense minister and deputy prime minister . <p> " I think Benny Gantz is good , but I 'm not prepared to say that , " he said when asked if he could " work better " with him than with Netanyahu in a second term . <p> " But you have some very good people that I 've gotten to know in Israel that could do a good job , " he said . " And I will say this ... Netanyahu rightfully has been criticized for what took place on October 7 . " <h> ' People like it ' <p> Eight years ago , during his first campaign for president , the transition period and his first inaugural address , Trump 's underlying message was that he was the only person who could repair the " carnage " that he said was caused by Democrats like Obama and Nancy Pelosi and even some Republicans , including former President George W. Bush . <p> That list also included internationalists from both parties whom Trump blamed for sending American jobs overseas and bungling the U.S. response to the 9/11 terrorist attacks . <p> This time , Trump has told interviewers and posted on social media that the current perceived mess was caused by one person : Biden . <p> " We have an incompetent fool that 's allowing people to come into our country , " he said . " We have an incompetent fool that drove energy prices so high over such a short period of time . And by the way , you know , he 's gone to a lot of my policies now . " <p> Asked if he understands why some recoiled at his pledge to be a dictator on " day one , " Trump , who received more than 77 million votes and swept all seven battleground states , replied : " I think a lot of people like it . " 
@@118980407 <p> An arts fair taking place on Wednesday in Ganei Tikva will feature a group of extraordinary artists , IDF soldiers injured since October 7 and survivors of the Supernova music festival massacre . <p> Held in collaboration with the Re'im Association , the Creating Hope Art Fair will display its works as part of the artists ' rehabilitation journeys , with each piece telling a deeply personal story , shaped by the devastating events of October 7 . <p> The initiative is led by Itay Atias and Elisha Shmuelian who have transformed their own experiences of trauma into a mission to foster connection and hope through art . <p> Atias and Shmuelian , childhood friends and soldiers , were thrust into intense battles on October 7 , near Gaza . Their heroic efforts included rescuing dozens of female soldiers from the Re'im base amid heavy fire . Tragically , their unit suffered significant losses , and both sustained critical injuries . <p> During their long and challenging rehabilitation , the pair discovered the transformative potential of art , which helped them toward recovery , " physically and cognitively , " they explained to The Jerusalem Post . ELISHA SHMUELIAN ( left ) and Itay Atias. ( credit : Itay Atias ) <p> " It helped restore the coordination between eye and hand . Emotionally , it allowed us to express ourselves through painting , reigniting our passion for connecting people -- civilians and soldiers alike . " <p> " Art has the power to heal , " they continue . " Not only ourselves but also a broad spectrum of individuals affected by the ongoing war . " <p> The two established the fair to support survivors of the Nova massacre , financially strained reservists , and the local artist community , with the aim of helping to revive hope , rebuild the younger generation , and guide them toward resilience . <p> " The inspiration behind this project was the understanding that we are not alone on this journey , " they said . <p> The name of the fair , they add , delivers a profound message : " This generation is one of victory and renewal . " <h> Stories of strength and resilience <p> The fair provides a stage for a broad array of powerful and moving stories . One standout work is by a tank commander , Itai Dori . His painting portrays a father , clad in military gear , sitting on a bench with his young child on the far end . <p> Other artists have also poured their experiences into their craft . Roni Sif , a Nova festival survivor , found solace through spiritual and natural art after a healing journey in the East . <p> Yasmin Mastai , who endured a harrowing seven-hour escape under fire , discovered art as a remedy for her soul . Rakheli Nehemias , another Nova survivor , uses fashion and creative expression to bring joy back into her life . <p> Ariel Saat channels his trauma into art and tattoos , a medium through which he processes the loss of friends -- after being injured in Kfar Aza . Roy Goldberg from Kibbutz Re'im turned to music as a tool for emotional recovery . Yehonatan Ben Shabbat , injured by an explosive device in Rafah , is rebuilding his life through his business . Omer Kohana , wounded during Operation Swords of Iron , found peace in jewelry design . <p> Beyond a platform for self-expression and a showcase for such profound individual stories , the fair offers a unifying experience , connecting people through creativity . <p> Atias and Shmuelian describe how the fair has been a source of inspiration for its artists , " encouraging them to overcome personal challenges , manage daily routines , and engage in meaningful , unifying artistic encounters . " <p> The event 's timing on the Day of Appreciation for Wounded Soldiers and Victims of Hostilities carries special weight . It provides the artists an opportunity to " close a personal circle while raising awareness " through their creative contributions . <h> ' Survived to Tell -- Be the Witness ' VR project <p> A unique addition to the fair is " Survived to Tell -- Be the Witness , " an innovative VR ( virtual reality ) project led by Nimrod Palmach , CEO of ISRAEL-is , dedicated to improving global perceptions of Israel . <p> Palmach , a reserve major who fought during the attack on Gaza-border kibbutzim , documented the harrowing events he witnessed , creating an immersive work that brings the stories of survivors and rescuers to life , capturing the intensity of their experiences while honoring their pain and dignity . <p> " I knew that I did n't want to hold this story to myself , " Palmach told the Post . " I had to find an effective way to bring people with me and share with people what I saw with my own eyes , and what I felt while I was there on October 7 . " <p> Designed particularly to connect with younger generations , the project recognizes empathy as a " powerful tool " for communication . It depicts survivor testimonies , including Palmach 's own , and rare 360-degree footage from affected areas . <p> Not only has the project provided a means of catharsis , it also serves as a mechanism to fight on what he describes as the " eighth front " of the war : public sentiment , " the advocacy and media front . " <p> Since its inception , the experience has been shown to 15,000 people worldwide , receiving overwhelmingly positive reactions . <p> " No one can stay indifferent to it . It raises dialog , it raises questions , it raises a lot of emotions . " <p> Ganei Tikva Mayor Lizy Delaricha described the fair as a testament to human resilience . <p> " The Creating Hope Art fair is not just a fair . It is a story of courage , of confronting the impossible , and of the human capacity to find light even in the darkest moments , " she said . <p> " Amid all the pain , within the process of physical and emotional rehabilitation , they discovered the power of art . Art , which at first seemed like a peripheral activity , became a profound tool for processing pain , creating new meaning , and expressing oneself . " 
@@118980410 <h> Most of the residents are descended from Arabs who fled Beit Jibrin in 1948 . Today , it is also home to wanted suspects who have engaged in terrorism or who may be active in threats against Israel . <p> IDF SOLDIERS PREPARE to search a building for a terror suspect during a raid in Bethlehem , December 3 , 2024. ( photo credit : SETH J. FRANTZMAN ) <p> There 's a narrow street near a mosque . The green light of the minaret is shining above us , but otherwise the sky is dark . It 's around 2:50 a.m . On the mosque , there is a white sign with black letters that reads " Salah Elddeen Mosque , " and in Arabic it says it was built in 1977 . <p> On the road near the mosque are a dozen IDF soldiers walking briskly in the cold night air . It 's around nine degrees in the Aza neighborhood of Bethlehem . <p> This neighborhood was built on a refugee camp established here in 1950 . Most of the 2,000 residents are descended from Arabs who fled Beit Jibrin in 1948 . Today , it is also home to wanted suspects who have engaged in terrorism or who may be active in threats against Israel . <p> I went to this neighborhood on an all-night raid with the IDF 's Etzion Brigade , based in Gush Etzion , which is responsible for this sector . Today , the brigade includes forces from several IDF units . We had soldiers from the Tavor Battalion of the Search and Rescue Brigade and reservists from the 8208 Infantry Reserve Battalion . <p> Prior to the raid , the soldiers had briefings about their target , and before the operation commenced I spoke to several officers . One described how soldiers in this area frequently carry out raids and sweeps of areas such as Bethlehem or neighboring villages . They eliminate terrorists , search for weapons , and conduct arrests . For instance , the units went into the Dehaishe camp in Bethlehem in November . IDF soldiers are seen standing guard on the lookout for suspects in Bethlehem , on December 3 , 2024. ( credit : SETH J. FRANTZMAN ) <p> The refugee camps in Bethlehem are the historic hearts of activism . This is where groups such as Hamas or the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine recruit young activists , who then become hardened terrorists . <p> And it 's not just Hamas and the PFLP ; many Fatah activists grew up in these camps and were once involved in fighting Israel in the 1980s or 1990s and later became officials in the Palestinian Authority . <p> The Palestinian movement is rooted in these camps , and conducting raids into them is necessary to keep terrorists in check . That is the way the IDF seems to see its mission these days in this area . <p> The officers say they have n't seen an increase in terror lately , but throughout the West Bank the military 's tempo of operations has generally increased since Oct. 7 . <p> In the northern West Bank , the clashes are more severe . The enemy in Jenin and Tulkarm has a large number of smuggled rifles . The IDF is also finding munitions and weapons in Bethlehem and the surrounding villages . <p> " If we did n't operate every night , then we 'd have a problem , " says one officer . The raids are conducted with regular soldiers and reservists , as well as members of the Shin Bet ( Israel Security Agency ) . An IDF soldier is seen standing guard in Bethlehem , on December 3 , 2024. ( credit : SETH J. FRANTZMAN ) <h> Night raid <p> For the deputy commander of one of the companies , a female combat soldier named R , this is an important mission . " We are doing this a couple of times a week , and usually it goes the same way , " she says . <p> Tonight , we will be going into a dense urban area with multi-story buildings , so it 's different than raiding a house in a village . Before the operation , the officers receive information on the site , such as how many families are expected to be in the building and the history of threats and terror in this area . The forces know they could expect to confront improvised explosive devices or Molotov cocktails thrown at their vehicles . <p> R says that it 's crucial for her troops to go in with a flexible mindset . They might not find the suspect at first ; they might have to go door to door . <p> I got to this unit 's base around midnight , and slowly the officers emerged from a room where they had been briefed on tonight 's mission . Soldiers begin to arrive . Most of this company of soldiers of the Tavor Battalion are women . There are also some men with us , including the driver of the Panther armored vehicle we pack into . <p> It takes time to organize everyone . The commander , R , forms her troops into a circle . She says that tonight , there will be many forces operating in Bethlehem . She discusses what to do if soldiers are wounded or if we confront rioters who throw Molotov cocktails . There are many threats where we are going ; she expects the soldiers to be alert and on their toes . IDF soldiers are seen detaining a suspect during a night raid in Bethlehem , on December 3 , 2024. ( credit : SETH J. FRANTZMAN ) <h> On the move <p> By 1 a.m. , the convoy of vehicles begins to move . There are half a dozen lightly armored vehicles in this group . We drive out of Gush Etzion on the road that snakes around back toward Jerusalem , eventually arriving in Bethlehem from the north . <p> There 's no one on the streets . It feels quiet and deserted . Bethlehem would usually be preparing for Christmas this time of year . However , due to the ongoing war in Gaza , the city has toned down its Christmas decorations , and there 's no festive spirit here . Tourists are gone and the cheer has turned somber . <p> Inside the vehicle , it 's relatively warm . We sit on a row of chairs facing each other . The soldiers have their helmets on and wait quietly with their rifles . They had been speaking in low whispers before , but now they are serious and ready . No one discusses the mission , and I feel a bit in the dark regarding what to expect . The vehicle has small windows with grates on the outside , so it 's hard to see where we are . <p> The convoy of vehicles stops on a main road that leads into Hebron . There is a large hotel here called the Heritage Hotel . There is also a bank and several small shops that advertise food and coffee . Everything is closed . We exit the vehicles quickly and move along the side of the road into an alley . <p> The alley has graffiti of PLO leader Yasser Arafat , Hamas founder Sheikh Ahmed Yassin , and recently assassinated Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah . Yassin was also eliminated in an IDF airstrike in 2004 . These are the heroes of this area of Aza camp . The house we arrive at has a symbol of the PFLP spray-painted on it . <p> The soldiers bang loudly on a door . No one answers . They try to break down a gate that leads to an internal courtyard of a building . A staircase leads to a small apartment on the outside of the building , and the soldiers bang on this door as well . Finally , a middle-aged man emerges . <p> He goes downstairs and seems to direct the soldiers to return to the gate they were trying to open . They try to use an electric saw to break down the gate . Eventually , someone comes and opens it , and we fan out into the courtyard . <p> Soldiers go up the stairs and secure the area , coming to an apartment on the fourth floor . Outside the door , the residents had put up license plates from Florida and Ohio . The family may have visited these places in the past . <p> Inside the home , the soldiers say they are looking for a certain suspect . The house is small , and there is what looks like a plastic Christmas tree that must have been from last year ; it does n't look new . A giant stuffed panda bear sits in front of it , wearing a shirt that says " You . " <p> After 10 minutes the soldiers exit the home , leaving a note telling the suspect to appear at some location . He 's out for the night . It 's time to try to find other wanted men . We go down the way we came and outside the gate that now has a cut at the bottom from the saw . <p> This is a relatively low-tech raid ; the soldiers do n't have special riot gear . There 's just a dozen of us , and the soldiers all carry M-16s . Everyone tries to avoid areas where rocks might be thrown from above , hugging the walls as we maneuver in and around alleyways . <p> THE SECOND location to be searched appears to be adjacent to a new hotel called the Regina . <p> The soldiers go in , and some of us wait outside . Minutes go by , and it seems to be a while before a suspect is taken out , his hands tied with plastic zip-ties . Once he is taken back to the Panther vehicle we came in , we return to the same neighborhood . <p> This time , an alleyway leads to a fancy large metal door . The door stands in contrast to the relative poverty of this area . Once again , several soldiers disappear down an alley to search for a suspect in a home . There is banging on doors and some shouting . <p> No one in the neighborhood comes out to see what is going on . They must be used to these kinds of raids . They likely know that a confrontation with the forces wo n't help them . <p> At some point , a suspect is brought out , and he sits on the ground next to us . He looks to be in his 30s and has a dark beard . Another suspect is taken out , and now there are two . One is coughing , and the other is shivering slightly from the cold . They are wearing sweatpants and sweatshirts . No one speaks . <p> Eventually , though , as time goes by , the soldiers whisper to one another . Each soldier is watching one alleyway for any movement . Nothing happens . A dog barks in the distance , and finally the forces all gather again and go back down the alley we came from . <p> It 's a bit of a warren of streets here , but we spill out onto the main road , where the Panther vehicle and the rest of the IDF jeeps are waiting . Now there are three suspects detained in the vehicle we came in . <p> IT 'S TIME to find another one . <p> We walk down the street , and then around a corner and up a hill . There is a monument on one side of the street with a mural with Palestinian flags . Opposite the mural is the mosque named for Salah Elddeen . This is one way to spell the name of the Muslim leader who fought the Crusaders . <p> Perhaps they feel the name of this mosque is a way to signal that a modern Muslim leader will come and fight Israel . If the residents here think so , tonight there is no such leader . <p> The raid near the mosque is as complex as the original search . We go into one narrow alleyway , balconies of houses above us obscuring the sky , making it feel like a tunnel . The soldiers bang on a door and speak to a man who eventually opens it . The suspect is n't here , but he lives around the back of the building . <p> We leave the tunnel , go back to the road where the mosque is , and take a left . This takes us by a shop that repairs cars and into another alley where there is an orange light that seems to be providing succor for a plant . I look closer . Is it a marijuana plant ? Are they doing some kind of hydroponics up here ? It does n't seem to be , but it 's unclear what they are growing . <p> There 's no more time for agricultural inspection because the forces have moved on now up the alley , around some stairs , and to an old metal gate framed with stones . It looks like the entrance to a secret garden . It takes two soldiers to break down the gate by kicking it . <p> Inside the small courtyard , I 'm struck by the fact that everything has been painted blue . A mural on the wall shows a hand going through barbed wire and disintegrating . It 's haunting . What 's the message here ? Is this a kindergarten or some kind of social club during the day ? <p> The soldiers go to the house at the end of the blue courtyard , and a young man emerges . He speaks English and complains that the man they seek is " too young to be in trouble . " The soldiers ignore his protests and go to another door , where they eventually enter an apartment and find the suspect . <p> This man seems to be in his late teens , and he is clad in a large khaki coat . Unlike the men with beards detained earlier , this young man seems like he does n't fit the mold of a terror suspect . <p> He does n't say anything , but the other man continues to protest until the soldiers shout at him , and he goes home . It 's unclear what the men 's relationship is , but they seem to be family . <p> As we leave , the soldiers express concern that residents here might throw stones at them . There is some shouting from one of the adjacent buildings . We leave quickly and add this latest suspect to the collection . The soldiers refer to the suspects as " Johnny , " such that we have now acquired " another Johnny . " <h> Final raid <p> The last raid of the night takes place in the Aida camp . It 's another built-up area densely packed with residences . Here , too , the walls are covered with graffiti . This one includes a small swastika . <p> We come to a multi-story building and wake up one family . A man leads the soldiers to the third floor . A woman watches us from behind opaque glass , her red shirt visible in a kind of fog . The suspect is n't home . <p> This is the end of the raid . We head back to the vehicles now with four suspects who have taken up the seats where I was sitting at the beginning of the raid . The soldiers have blindfolded the men . A short drive takes us to an area with numerous other IDF vehicles , all idling at night , corralled , and waiting for suspects to arrive . <p> We drop off the four men . One of them drops his ID , and the soldiers pick it up . Then we pile back into the Panther vehicle and begin the long drive back to the base . <h> A calm operation <p> One commander I spoke to characterizes this as " cutting the grass , " a term we 've heard over the years for how the IDF manages the ongoing conflict in the West Bank . The soldiers are operating here 24/7 , the officer says . They secure Highway 60 , which leads from Gush Etzion and Hebron to Jerusalem . Thousands of Jews live in a dozen communities in the area . <p> The IDF says that the forces in this area are responsible for maintaining order in the area and preventing friction and problems between Arabs and Jews . <p> The Etzion Brigade is here to conduct offensive operations . Different units , such as the Search and Rescue Brigade , rotate in and out of this sector . The IDF sees this evening 's raid as a success . <p> " During the operation , the forces made arrests of wanted individuals , interrogated dozens of suspects , and searched and found weapons and incitement materials , " the IDF says . No details about the suspects were provided . <p> For Deputy Company Commander R , this was a calm operation . She says this is usually the case . Operating at night means there are fewer civilians to deal with and fewer chances of clashes . <p> The level of threat can depend on the area being searched , she notes . " We have intelligence of who we are looking for , who is in the house , who is in the family , and if they are violent . " <h> Deputy Commander R <p> R joined the army in 2021 . She is a lone soldier from the eastern United States . She wanted to be a combat soldier . In recent years , she says , the IDF has opened numerous units to women combat soldiers , and she praises the fact that women recently passed tryouts to get into the elite 669 Rescue Unit and Sayeret Matkal . <p> R did n't know what to expect when she joined , but she did n't anticipate it would include the kind of raid we were on . " I did n't expect I 'd be entering people 's houses and taking them from their beds . I thought we 'd be doing more rescues . " This is because the Search and Rescue Brigade is trained for what it sounds like -- search and rescue . <p> R has risen quickly in the ranks . She went through basic training , and the IDF saw her potential for leadership . She went to officers ' school and became a platoon commander . R has been in the Etzion Brigade region for around half a year . Prior to that , she was in training with a company of soldiers . <p> She describes how training as a group helped the soldiers build trust . " It takes time , though , to gain the trust of other soldiers . The most important thing is to be professional and keep soldiers alive . " <p> She has lost friends in this war . " I never thought that would happen . That gives you perspective on what to waste your energy on and what to put it on . I feel I 've matured . Every soldier feels this way currently . Everyone goes through this loss . <p> " And that is what makes the country special . Eighteen-year-olds are n't getting drunk but are doing real things . " <p> I asked about what kinds of threats her unit has faced . She says that each area is distinct . " There are cities like Bethlehem that are known for having guns or smuggling or throwing Molotov cocktails and other types of explosives , and IEDs , which they can plant in places . <p> " Then there are places like the village of Husan , where we operate a lot . It 's known for Molotov cocktails , and the briefings are specific about the threats . One thing that is classic is throwing things from the roof such as blocks . " <p> During the raid , I was struck by how the interaction with the civilians was generally calm . It was tough but calm . Soldiers banged on doors and shouted when they needed to be clear , but there were n't fights with the civilians . <p> " In your training , you get used to keeping a straight face and being serious when it 's time to work . You have to show a level of professionalism , and it comes naturally at a point , " the commander says . <p> She praises the role of women in combat in units like this . <p> " I think it goes to show that women are more than capable of being great combat soldiers , and there are many successes that have come from the leadership of women from our unit . " <p> While 5% of combat soldiers in the IDF are women , most of the fighters in her unit are women . " To see it as such a norm is special , and I am happy to be one of them , " she states . ? 
@@118989107 <p> It 's been 14 months since Oct. 7 , 2023 , when Hamas kidnapped their family members -- 14 months of agony , loneliness , anger and tears , with few glimmers of hope . On that fateful day , Hamas killed more than 1,200 people in Israel , beginning a war that continues today . <p> Desperate to get the hostages freed , family members have been traveling around the world to plead their case . This week , they 're in South Florida , speaking with politicians , the media and community leaders , hoping for possible connections to President-elect Donald Trump 's administration and what they hope is his power to get the estimated 100 men , women and children out of captivity . <p> The South Florida visit , which includes two events open to the public , is presented by We Are All Hostages , a volunteer organization that has helped hostage families travel to Washington , D.C. , New York and Europe over the past few months . <p> On Wednesday evening , the families will share their stories during a free forum at the David Posnack Jewish Community Center in Davie . The following night will feature an in-depth remembrance at the Nova Exhibition , an ongoing exhibit in North Miami that offers a timeline of events and remains rescued from the music festival grounds where 364 were killed on Oct. 7 . <p> The family members ' visit comes at a time when news reports say a deal to free the captives may be close to happening . Yehuda Cohen , father of hostage Nimrod Cohen , said he has heard reports like this before . <p> " I do n't want to put my hopes too high because I do n't want to be disappointed again , " said Cohen , 55 , an engineer at an American technology company in Rehovot , Israel . <p> Nimrod Cohen , 20 , was a soldier whose tank malfunctioned near the border with Gaza . His father plans to tell South Florida political leaders and community members that a ceasefire and hostage deal are the best way to get the Israelis out . In the meantime , he hopes his son somehow sees that he is fighting to get him freed . <p> " I want him to know all the time that he 's not alone , " Cohen said . " I hope there is the smallest chance that my words get to him . " <p> The Bibas family : Yarden , Ariel , Shiri and Kfir . All were kidnapped into Gaza on Oct. 7 , 2023 . Shiri Bibas ' uncle will be speaking in South Florida . ( We Are All Hostages/Courtesy ) <p> In addition to Cohen , the following family members are traveling in South Florida this week : <p> Rotem Sharabi , niece of Eli Sharabi , who was taken from Kibbutz Be'eri . His wife and two daughters were killed , as was his brother , Yossi . <p> Leat Corinne , cousin of Omer Shem Tov , who had been at the Nova music rave in the desert . <p> Omri Lifshitz , son of Oded Lifshitz , who was kidnapped from Kibbutz Nir Oz . <p> Maurice Schnaider , uncle to Shiri Bibas , who was kidnapped along with her husband and two young sons . <p> " I could not miss this trip because maybe there is one word I will say that will liberate them , " Schnaider said . <p> The family , natives of Peru , immigrated to Israel in 1971 . His sister was Shiri Bibas ' mother , Margit , who was killed with her husband , Yossi , on Oct. 7 at Kibbutz Nir Oz . <p> " I ca n't erase from my mind how my sister died , " said Schnaider , 68 , who lives in Kingston , New York . " I 'm fighting for my family but also for every single hostage . " <h> IF YOU GO <p> The families will share personal stories as relatives of hostages during a presentation , " Voices of Resilience , " at 7:30 p.m . Wednesday , Dec. 18 , at the David Posnack Jewish Community Center , 5850 S. Pine Island Road , Davie . Free ; register at dpjcc.org/events . <p> They will also speak at an in-depth remembrance of the Oct. 7 massacre at 7 p.m . Thursday , Dec. 19 , as part of the Nova Music Festival Exhibition , 12100 NE 16th Ave. , North Miami . Cost is $18 ; register at **27;2059;TOOLONG 
@@119013703 <h> Trump 's return to White House creates uncertainty for Israelis and Palestinians <p> In 2019 , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu renamed a planned settlement " Trump Heights " after he became the first Western leader to officially recognize Israel 's control over the Golan Heights . <p> ABC News <p> The upcoming change in the White House is sparking uncertainty for the Middle East . President-elect Donald Trump might be a familiar face ( and a historically friendly one for the Israelis ) , but what he will do to address the conflict between Israel and the Palestinian territories remains unclear . <p> Jerusalem lies at the heart of the near-century-old conflict between Israelis and Palestinians , since it stands as a powerful political and religious symbol for both sides . Palestinian protests over the move spread to Gaza and the West Bank , turning deadly as demonstrators clashed with the Israeli military . <p> In 2019 , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu renamed a planned settlement " Trump Heights " after he became the first Western leader to officially recognize Israel 's control over the Golan Heights . <p> ABC News <p> Many Israelis welcome Trump 's return to the White House . In his first term , Trump became the first Western leader to officially recognize Israel 's control over the Golan Heights , which it seized from Syria in 1967 . And , as a thank you , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu renamed a planned settlement in the area " Trump Heights " in 2019 . <p> Some members of the Israeli government hope Trump will go a step further when he returns to the White House on Jan. 20 . Days after Trump won the presidential election , Bezalel Smotrich -- Israel 's far-right finance minister -- announced at a press conference that he 's ordered preparations for the annexation of settlements in the West Bank . <p> " I intend , with God 's help , to lead a government decision that says the government of Israel will work with the new administration of President Trump and the international community to apply Israeli sovereignty over Judea and Samaria , " he said in Hebrew . <p> Smotrich referred to the West Bank as Judea and Samaria , a reference to ancient Israelite kingdoms as some Israelis assert that the area is a historic Jewish homeland . <p> Smotrich 's plan would effectively cement the West Bank as Israeli territory , despite the occupied land being part of what would form a Palestinian state . <p> Official U.S. policy has always been in favor of a two-state solution , meaning it supports the creation of a Palestinian state alongside the state of Israel . Trump 's appointment of Mike Huckabee -- the former governor of Arkansas and a staunch supporter of Israel 's expansion ambitions -- as ambassador to Israel has thrown continued commitment to that policy into question . <p> In the West Bank village of Al-Makhrour , a Christian area west of Bethlehem , local woman Alice Kasiya is holding out hope for better days under Trump . Her family 's land was seized by Israeli settlers at the end of July . In a video posted to social media , she said 50 Israeli soldiers sealed off the area as bulldozers drove through . <p> " He 's a business guy . He had many peace agreements with other countries before , in his presidential time , " she told ABC News . " And I know everyone says no , it will , it will be worse with him , but I believe it will be better . He 's a good guy . " <p> West Bank resident Alice Kasiya , whose family 's land was seized by Israeli settlers over the summer , expressed hope that Trump 's return to office will bring positive change to the area . <p> ABC News <p> Kasiya , who 's been arrested three times while protesting , said she believes the situation ca n't get any worse . She noted that Israeli settler expansionism has accelerated dramatically since Hamas ' deadly Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack . <p> " We have seen many settlers coming and trying to take over lands , " she said . " So it 's like cancer . They are spreading . They put the first step and they will keep moving around until they get everything slowly , slowly . " <p> Kasiya also warned that what happens in her area reverberates far and wide . <p> " It 's not for us only , it 's for the whole world , " she told ABC News . " Because this city is the Holy City that affects the whole world . If it 's not in peace , nowhere else will be living in peace . " 
@@119014304 <p> AI warfare may conjure images of killer robots and autonomous drones , but a different reality is unfolding in the Gaza Strip . There , artificial intelligence has been suggesting targets in Israel 's retaliatory campaign to root out Hamas following the group 's Oct. 7 , 2023 attack . A program known as " The Gospel " generates suggestions for buildings and structures militants may be operating in . " Lavender " is programmed to identify suspected members of Hamas and other armed groups for assassination , from commanders all the way down to foot soldiers . " Where 's Daddy ? " reportedly follows their movements by tracking their phones in order to target them -- often to their homes , where their presence is regarded as confirmation of their identity . The air strike that follows might kill everyone in the target 's family , if not everyone in the apartment building . <p> These programs , which the Israel Defense Force ( IDF ) has acknowledged developing , may help explain the pace of the most devastating bombardment campaign of the 21st century , in which more than 44,000 Palestinians have been killed , according to the Hamas-run Gaza Health Ministry , whose count is regarded as reliable by the U.S. and U.N . In earlier Gaza wars , Israeli military veterans say airstrikes occurred at a much slower tempo . <p> " During the period in which I served in the target room between 2010 and 2015 , you needed a team of around 20 intelligence officers to work for around 250 days to gather something between 200 to 250 targets , " Tal Mimran , a lecturer at Hebrew University in Jerusalem and a former legal adviser in the IDF , tells TIME . " Today , the AI will do that in a week . " <p> Experts on the laws of war , already alarmed by the emergence of AI in military settings , say they are concerned that its use in Gaza , as well as in Ukraine , may be establishing dangerous new norms that could become permanent if not challenged . <p> A body of a Palestinian is retrieved from the rubble of a house destroyed in an Israeli strike at the Nuseirat refugee camp in the central Gaza Strip on Nov. 12 , 2024 . Majdi Fathi -- NurPhoto/Reuters <p> The treaties that govern armed conflict are non-specific when it comes to the tools used to deliver military effect . The elements of international law covering war -- on proportionality , precautions , and distinctions between civilians and combatant -- apply whether the weapon being used is a crossbow or a tank -- or an AI-powered database . But some advocates , including the International Committee of the Red Cross , argue that AI requires a new legal instrument , noting the crucial need to ensure human control and accountability as AI weapons systems become more advanced . <p> " The pace of technology is far outstripping the pace of policy development , " says Paul Scharre , the executive vice president at the Center for a New American Security and the author of Army of None : Autonomous Weapons and the Future of War . " It 's quite likely that the types of AI systems that we 've seen to date are pretty modest , actually , compared to ones that are likely to come in the near future . " <p> The AI systems the IDF uses in Gaza were first detailed a year ago on the Israeli online news outlet +972 Magazine , which shared its reporting with The Guardian . Yuval Abraham , the Israeli journalist and filmmaker behind the investigation , tells TIME he believes the decision to " bomb private houses in a systemic way " is " the number one factor for the civilian casualties in Gaza . " That decision was made by humans , he emphasizes , but he says AI targeting programs enabled the IDF " to take this extremely deadly practice and then multiply it by a very large scale . " Abraham , whose report relies on conversations with six Israeli intelligence officers with first-hand experience in Gaza operations after Oct. 7 , quoted targeting officers as saying they found themselves deferring to the Lavender program , despite knowing that it produces incorrect targeting suggestions in roughly 10% of cases . <p> One intelligence officer tasked with authorizing a strike recalled dedicating roughly 20 seconds to personally confirming a target , which could amount to verifying that the individual in question was male . <p> Graves are prepared for the funeral of Palestinians killed in overnight Israeli strikes at a cemetery in Rafah , on the southern Gaza Strip on Feb. 21 , 2024 . Said Khatib -- AFP/Getty Images <p> The Israeli military , in responding to the +972 report , said that its use of AI is misunderstood , saying in a June statement that Gospel and Lavender merely " help intelligence analysts review and analyze existing information . They do not constitute the sole basis for determining targets eligible to attack , and they do not autonomously select targets for attack . " At a conference in Jerusalem in May , one senior military official sought to minimize the importance of the tools , which he likened to " glorified Excel sheets , " Mimran and another person in attendance told TIME . <p> The IDF did not specifically dispute Abraham 's reporting about Lavender 's 10% error rate , or that an analyst might spend as little as 20 seconds analyzing the targets , but in a statement to TIME , a spokesperson said that analysts " verify that the identified targets meet the relevant definitions in accordance with international law and additional restrictions stipulated in the IDF directives . " <p> Converting data into target lists is not incompatible with the laws of war . Indeed , a scholar at West Point , assessing the Israeli programs , observed that more information could make for greater accuracy . By some contemporary accounts , that may have beenthe case the last time Israel went to war in Gaza , in 2021 . That brief conflict apparently marked the first time the IDF used artificial intelligence in a war , and afterward , the then-head of UNRWA , the U.N . agency that provides health , education , and advocacy for Palestinians , remarked on " a huge sophistication in the way the Israeli military struck over the last 11 days . " But the 2021 round of combat , which produced 232 Palestinian deaths , was a different kind of war . It was fought under Israeli rules of engagement ostensibly intended to minimize civilian casualties , including by " knocking on the door " -- dropping a small charge on the rooftop of a building to warn occupants that it was about to be destroyed , and should evacuate . <p> In the current war , launched more than 14 months ago to retaliate for the worst attack on Jews since the Holocaust , Israeli leaders shut off water and power to all of Gaza , launched 6,000 airstrikes in the space of just five days , and suspended some measures intended to limit civilian casualties . " This time we are not going to " knock on the roof " and ask them to evacuate the homes , " former Israeli military intelligence chief Amos Yadlin told TIME five days after Oct. 7 , warning that that the weeks ahead would be " very bloody " in Gaza . " We are going to attack every Hamas operative and especially the leaders and make sure that they will think twice before they will even think about attacking Israel . " Abraham reported that targeting officers were told it was acceptable to kill 15 to 20 noncombatants in order to kill a Hamas soldier ( the number in previous conflicts , he reports , was zero ) , and as many as 100 civilians to kill a commander . The IDF did not comment on those figures . <p> Israeli army battle tank at a position along the border with Gaza , on March 19 , 2024 . Jack Guez -- AFP/Getty Images <p> Experts warn that , with AI generating targets , the death toll may climb even higher . They cite " automation bias " -- the presumption that information provided by AI is accurate and reliable unless proven otherwise , rather than the other way around . Abraham says his sources reported times they made just that assumption . " Yes there is a human in the loop , " says Abraham , " but if it 's coming at a late stage after decisions have been made by AI and if it is serving as a formal rubber stamp , then it 's not effective supervision . " <p> Former IDF chief Aviv Kochavi offered a similar observation in an interview with the Israeli news site Ynet six months before Oct. 7 . " The concern , " he said , speaking of AI broadly , " is not that robots will take control over us , but that artificial intelligence will supplant us , without us even realizing that it is controlling our minds . " <p> Adil Haque , the executive editor of the national security law blog Just Security and the author of Law and Morality at War , described the tension at play . " The psychological dynamic here pushes against the legal standard , " he says . " Legally , the presumption is that you ca n't attack any person unless you have very strong evidence that they 're a lawful target . But psychologically , the effect of some of these systems can be to make you think that this individual is a lawful target , unless there 's some very obvious indication that you make independently that they are not . " <p> Israel is far from the only country using artificial intelligence in its military . Scores of defense tech companies operate in Ukraine , where the software developed by the Silicon Valley firm Palantir Technologies " is responsible for most of the targeting " against Russia , its CEO told TIME in 2023 , describing programs that present commanders with targeting options compiled from satellites , drones , open-source data , and battlefield reports . As with Israel , experts note that Ukraine 's use of AI is in a " predominantly supportive and informational role , " and that the kinds of technology being trialed , from AI-powered artillery systems to AI-guided drones , are not yet fully autonomous . But concerns abound about potential misuse , particularly on issues related to accuracy and privacy . <p> Anna Mysyshyn , an AI policy expert and director of the Institute of Innovative Governance , an NGO and watchdog of the Ministry of Digital Transformation of Ukraine , tells TIME that while " dual-use technologies " such as the facial-recognition system Clearview AI play an important role in Ukraine 's defense , concerns remain about their use beyond the war . " We 're talking about ... how to balance between using technologies that have advantages on the battlefield with protecting human rights , " she says , noting that " regulation of these technologies is complicated by the need to balance military necessity with civilian protection . " <p> With fighting largely confined to battlefields , where both Russian and Ukrainian forces are dug in , the issues that animate the debate in Gaza have not been in the foreground . But any country with an advanced military -- including the U.S. -- is likely to soon confront the issues that come with machine learning . <p> " Congress needs to be prepared to put guardrails on AI technologies -- especially those that put international humanitarian law in question and threaten civilians , " Sen. Peter Welch of Vermont said in a statement to TIME . In September , he and Sen. Dick Durbin of Illinois wrote a letter to Secretary of State Antony Blinken urging the State Department to " proactively and publicly engage in setting international norms about the ethical deployment of AI technology . " Welch has also since put forward his proposed Artificial Intelligence Weapons Accountability and Risk Evaluation ( AWARE ) Act , which if passed would require the Defense Department to catalog domestic deployments of AI systems , the risks associated with them , and any foreign sharing or exportation of these technologies . <p> " A more comprehensive and public approach is necessary to address the risk of AI weapons and maintain America 's leadership in ethical technology development , " Welch says , " as well as establish international norms in this critical space . " <p> It may seem unlikely that any government would find an incentive to introduce restrictions that also curtail its own military 's advancements in the process . " We 've done it before , " counters Alexi Drew , a Technology Policy Adviser at the ICRC , pointing to treaties on disarmament , cluster munitions , and landmines . " Of course , it 's a very complex challenge to achieve , but it 's not impossible . " 
@@119014410 <p> The cast list for Scream VII is coming together . Varietyhas reported per sources that Courteney Cox will reprise her role as Gale Weathers in the forthcoming film , which places her alongside Neve Campbell and Mason Gooding on the franchise 's list of returning actors . <p> Scream VII will be released in theaters on Feb. 27 , 2025 . Kevin Williamson will direct the film with a screenplay from Guy Busick . Williamson took on the role for the seventh installment of the franchise after its previously attached director Christopher Landon made his exit in 2023 . " It was a dream job that turned into a nightmare , " Landon said at the time . " And my heart did break for everyone involved . " <p> " It 's been nearly 30 years since my very first script , Scream , was directed by the legendary Wes Craven . I never would have predicted what it would become . Or that I would be directing the seventh installment of the franchise , " Williamson shared earlier this year . " I am overcome with gratitude and excitement , and I ca n't wait to take this journey with Neve and the entire Scream family as we bring back Sidney Prescott in the next chapter of the Scream franchise . Thank you to all the Scream fans . You are the gift that keeps giving . " <p> Campbell 's appearance as Sidney Prescott in Scream VII will mark her first appearance since 2022 's Scream . She was notably absent from Scream VI due to a salary conflict with the film 's producers . Cox and Gooding , who plays Chad Meeks-Martin , both appeared in the most recent installation . <p> Their return follows the unexpected departure of Melissa Barrera , who was fired from the horror franchise by production company Spyglass Media Group after sharing social media posts raising awareness for the humanitarian crisis in Gaza . Fan-favorite Jenna Ortega also exited Scream VIIshortly after Barrera was removed from the project . <p> " I 'm not the first person that 's happened to , but it was shocking , " Barrera told Rolling Stoneearlier this year . " I think everything that happened was very transparent , on both sides , and I know who I am , and I know that what I said always came from a place of love and a place of humanity and a place of human rights and a place of freedom for people , which should n't be controversial . " 
@@119014713 <p> Polio came for 5-year-old Lynn Lane when she was visiting her grandmother in rural Indiana . Suddenly , her arms and legs became weak , and by the time she got to a hospital in Indianapolis , she was totally paralyzed and in respiratory failure . Lane spent the next several months in an iron lung . <p> " I do n't really remember too much about that , " Lane , now 73 , told me Monday from her home north of Sacramento . " The only memories I really have are mainly at night . You could hear the swooshing of all the iron lungs . " <p> Lane 's family moved to Northern California a few years after her bout with polio , when she was 8 . " That 's when I started noticing I was different than other kids , " she said . " I was in leg braces and had to learn to walk all over again . " <p> Advertisement <p> Her parents took her to Shriners Hospital in San Francisco , where she lived on and off for the next eight years . <p> " It was kind of like a boarding school , except with surgeries , " Lane said . " They did all these muscle and tendon transfers . I think I had maybe 15 to 18 surgeries . They transferred my quads from the front to the back so I could stand . " <p> In her early 40s , Lane was diagnosed with post-polio syndrome , which afflicts between 25% and 40% of childhood polio survivors . It is similar to chronic fatigue syndrome and can range from mild to debilitating . <p> Advertisement <p> " I 'm not in a wheelchair yet , " said Lane , who uses leg braces and crutches , " but it 's heading that way . " <p> The idea that anyone would question the polio vaccine now , she said , " makes me nuts . " <p> The Times ' report set off shock waves . Before Jonas Salk developed the first successful polio vaccine in the mid-1950s , the disease killed or paralyzed more than half a million people around the world each year . Many high-profile Americans who suffered from childhood polio , including Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell and the actor Mia Farrow , immediately condemned the questioning of the vaccine . Kennedy and Trump were forced to reassure Americans that they support the lifesaving treatment . <p> Advertisement <p> As Kennedy met with Republican senators to shore up support for his nomination this week , he told reporters that he is " all for " the polio vaccine . Trump , in his first post-election press conference , insisted , " You 're not going to lose the polio vaccine . It 's not going to happen . " <p> And yet Trump also persisted in promulgating the oft-debunked lie that childhood vaccines are linked to autism , vowing to " look into " the conspiracy theory . Kennedy , he said , will " come back with a report as to what he thinks . We 're going to find out a lot . " <p> This fear-mongering is unconscionable . We already know a lot . In fact , we know more than a lot . <p> With his team full of accused sex offenders , it 's understandable that many young women consider it a red flag if their male partners identify as MAGA Republicans . <p> Nov. 25 , 2024 <p> The autism question has " been studied to death in some ways , " said Richard Pan , a pediatrician and former California state senator who led the successful 2015 campaign to eliminate a " personal belief " exemption from vaccine requirements for the state 's schoolchildren . <p> " Do we know what causes autism ? Not yet , " Pan said . But , he added , we do know what does not cause autism : the measles , mumps and rubella vaccine , which was implicated in a long-since-discredited 1998 paper based on 12 cases by the defrocked English physician Andrew Wakefield . <p> " What will it take to convince Trump and RFK Jr . that a retracted 12-subject study with fake data was actually wrong ? " asked Pan . <p> Advertisement <p> In any case , he added , blaming the vaccine is an " ableist " response to autism by some parents . " They do n't want to accept that their child is neurodivergent , " Pan said . " You want to say your child is broken and my life has been ruined and it 's the fault of Big Pharma or whoever . " <p> People who do not vaccinate their children , he said , are risking the health of the very people they are supposed to protect . <p> " You are playing with your children 's lives , " he said . " All of these adults have already been vaccinated . " <p> Although polio has essentially been eradicated in the U.S. , it still exists in parts of the world and could certainly make a comeback here if enough people refuse to vaccinate their children . In 2022 , the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported that an unvaccinated New York man had contracted polio . And earlier this year , amid Israel 's war on Hamas , a 10-month-old child in Gaza contracted the virus , confirming fears about the war 's potential effect on preventable childhood disease . <p> As for the Kennedy advisor 's petition , Pan said , how could we withhold a potentially lifesaving treatment from children in a control group to test the efficacy of a vaccine that has been used successfully for decades ? <p> " Sometimes a trial can not be done safely or ethically , " he said . " Are you willing to volunteer your child into the control group ? " <p> Robin Abcarian is an opinion columnist at the Los Angeles Times . She writes about news , politics and culture . Her columns appear on Wednesday and Sunday . Follow her on Bluesky @rabcarian.bsky.social and Threads @rabcarian. 
@@119018001 <h> Hamas ' Gaza death toll questioned as new report says its led to ' widespread inaccuracies and distortion ' <p> Hamas ' Gaza death toll questioned as new report says its led to ' widespread inaccuracies and distortion ' <p> A new report cites a laundry list of alleged errors in the casualty tallies that the Hamas-run Gaza Ministry of Health has issued during the conflict in Gaza , and found that worldwide media widely report the inflated numbers with little or no scrutiny . <p> The Henry Jackson Society ( HJS ) , a U.K. based think tank , found " widespread inaccuracies and distortion in the data collection process " for the Hamas-run Gaza Ministry of Health ( MoH ) which has resulted in a " misleading picture of the conflict . " The study also analyzed how journalists worldwide have spread misleading MoH data without noting its shortcomings or offering alternative information from Israeli sources . <p> The report 's author , Andrew Fox , a fellow at HJS said his team 's research is based on lists of casualty figures that the MoH has released through Telegram as well as lists released by the U.N . Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs . Fox said he and his team have been able to examine segments of the reporting , despite changeable MoH data being " really hard to interrogate . " <p> On Tuesday , Gaza health authorities updated its number of dead to what it said was more than 45,000 . <p> " If Israel was killing indiscriminately , you would expect deaths to roughly match the demographic proportions pre-war , " Fox said . At the time , adult men made up around 26% of the Gazan population . " The number of adult males that have died is vastly in excess of 26% , " he said . <p> Within accessible reporting , Fox and his team also found instances of casualty entries being recorded improperly , " artificially increasing the numbers of women and children who are reported as killed . " This has included people with male names being listed as females , and grown adults being recorded as young children . <p> A terrorist from Hamas takes part in a military parade . <p> Analyzing data by category has further highlighted biases within reporting . There are three kinds of entries within MoH 's casualty figures : entries collected by hospitals prior to the breakdown of networks in November 2023 , entries submitted by family members of the deceased , and entries collected through " media sources , " whose veracity researchers like Dr. David Adesnik , vice president of research at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies , has previously questioned . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Analysis of gender breakdowns among these groupings shows that hospital records " are distorted , " with a higher percentage of women and children among hospital-reported casualties than in those reported by family members . <p> Though around 5,000 natural deaths typically occur in Gaza each year , the study found that MoH casualty figures do not account for natural deaths . It claims that it also fails to exclude deaths unassociated with Israeli military action from its count . This includes individuals believed to have been killed by Hamas , like 13-year-old Ahmed Shaddad Halmy Brikeh , who appears on a casualty list from August despite reports indicating he had " been shot dead by Hamas " while trying to get food from an aid shipment in December 2023 . The list also excludes individuals killed by Hamas ' rockets , about 1,750 of which " fell short within the Gaza strip " between October 2023 and July 2024 . <p> Fox and his team also found individuals who died before the conflict began had been added to MoH casualty counts . In addition , at least three cancer patients whose names were included in lists to leave the Gaza Strip for treatment in April had been listed as dead during the month of March . <p> Ambulances carrying victims of Israeli strikes crowd the entrance to the emergency ward of the Al-Shifa hospital in Gaza City on Oct. 15 , 2023 . <p> The ministry does not separate combatants and civilians in its casualty figures . Though the study states that Israeli forces have killed around 17,000 Hamas terrorists , Fox said that his research indicated the death toll may include as many as 22,000 members of Hamas . He said his research supports the fact that around 15,000 of the dead in Gaza are women and children , and 7,500 are non-combatant adult males . <p> " Collecting these sorts of lists in a war zone is a hugely challenging thing , " Fox admitted , but he stated that the MoH 's mistakes , whether innocent or deliberate , show that the institution is " really unreliable . " <p> Despite this unreliability , the Henry Jackson Society 's survey of reporting of the conflict found that 98% of media organizations it looked at utilized fatality data from MoH versus 5% who cited Israeli figures . Fox found that " fewer than one in every 50 articles about the conflict mentioned that the figures provided by the MoH were unverifiable or controversial , " though " Israeli statistics had their credibility questioned in half of the few articles that incorporated them . " <p> Smoke rises near the al-Wafa hospital from Israeli airstrike in Gaza City on Oct. 24 , 2023 . <p> As an illustration of the phenomenon witnessed in the survey , Fox pointed out what he called an " incredibly biased " article from a British broadcaster that recently emerged citing MoH data claiming that there have been more than 45,000 deaths in Gaza . Though its report mentions MoH data , it does not break down the numbers of combatants and civilians , and does not mention the questionable veracity of MoH reporting . Instead , it parrots MoH claims , reporting that women and children make up for over half of the fatalities . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> " It 's just a great example of everything we 've written in the report , " Fox said . <p> AI models can deceive , new research from Anthropic shows . " Our demonstration ... should be seen as a spur for the AI research community to study this behavior in more depth , and to work on the appropriate safety measures , " the researchers wrote in a post on Anthropic 's blog . " As AI models become more capable and widely-used , we need to be able to rely on safety training , which nudges models away from harmful behaviors . " <p> The U.S. House of Representatives passed a bill Wednesday that has been championed for weeks on Capitol Hill by hotel heiress and reality TV star Paris Hilton . It will now head to President Biden 's desk to be signed into law . <p> Perplexity acquired a small Seattle-based startup called Carbon which specializes in connecting AI systems to external data sources , the companies announced on Wednesday . CEO Aravind Srinivasan says this will allow Perplexity to search through your files and work messages in Notion , Google Docs , Slack , and other enterprise applications sometime in early 2025 . Carbon specializes in retrieval augmented generation , or RAG , which allows large language models to access information from external databases before it generates an answer . <p> A lot of YouTube videos have flashy , misleading titles and thumbnails , such as " BREAKING NEWS " or " The president steps down , " to bait the user into watching the video , which has non-related content . YouTube said Wednesday that it is now cracking down on such videos -- especially if videos cover topics like breaking news or current events -- starting in India . The company noted that it will also start enforcing stricter rules against clickbait titles and thumbnails in the coming months . <p> Microsoft-owned GitHub announced on Wednesday a free version of its popular Copilot code completion/AI pair programming tool , which will also now ship by default with Microsoft 's popular VS Code editor . Until now , most developers had to pay a monthly fee , starting at $10 per month , with only verified students , teachers , and open source maintainers getting free access . GitHub also announced that it now has 150 million developers on its platform , up from 100 million in early 2023. 
@@119025218 <p> Like most of the country , Hollywood spent much of this past year obsessing over a historic choice . A decision that divided the nation , that set family members against one another and that made us all question if we could ever again learn to get along as one people . <p> Of course , other stuff happened in 2024 that had nothing to do with love-sick contestants on a Hawaiian island -- like , say , the election of a very different sort of game show personality to a second term as president of the United States -- some of which is probably worth noting as we prepare to hurtle into 2025 . <p> For the entertainment industry , this past year was filled both with the familiar tang of despair ( the contraction continued , the never-ending layoffs never let up ) as well as a new whiff of something that smelled enticingly like hope ( box office was n't the disaster everyone expected , streaming finally started making money ) . There were surprise megahits ( like Marvel 's Deadpool &amp; Wolverine and HBO Max 's The ? Penguin ) , colossal misfires ( Francis Ford Coppola 's Megalopolis , Kevin Costner 's Horizon ) and more offscreen drama than even Ryan Murphy could stuff into an FX limited series ( Diddy 's arrest , Alec Baldwin 's acquittal , whatever it was Cynthia Erivo and Ariana Grande were doing during that weird Wicked press tour ) . Nicole Kidman redefined " prolific , " Katy Perry redefined " comeback , " Will Smith made it through another year without slapping anyone ( in fact , he had a box office smash ! ) , Jennifer Lopez and Ben Affleck broke up ( again ) , and George Clooney wrote an op-ed for The New York Times that for some reason people took seriously ( honestly , what was everyone thinking ? ) . <p> Below , THR offers a reminder of what we 've all been through in 2024 -- the good , the bad and the utterly mystifying ( who thought turning the Joker sequel into a musical was a good idea ? ) . <h> " Holding Space " for the ' Wicked ' Press Tour <p> Image Credit : Courtesy <p> The press tour for Wicked started oddly and just got odder as it rolled along . In October , star Cynthia Erivo got so upset over a fan-made poster -- it positioned her character 's hat so that it obscured her eyes -- she posted on social media that it was the " wildest , most offensive thing I have seen . " Then there was the mix-up by Mattel in which Wicked-inspired Barbie dolls shipped out in boxes misprinted with the URL of a porn website . That inspired a class action suit against the toy manufacturer by a South Carolina resident who thought this was the wildest , most offensive thing they had ever seen . For weeks , Erivo and co-star Ariana Grande cried their way through questions about friendship and feelings of insecurity . The most viral moment came when Erivo was told by a journalist that " people are taking the lyrics of ' Defying Gravity ' and really holding space with that . " Erivo responded by putting a hand to her chest and offering -- with either genuine tenderness or Oscar-worthy commitment -- " I did n't know that was happening . " Grande supported her co-star by reaching out and grabbing her ... index finger ? Christopher Guest could n't have directed a wackier parody . <h> George Clooney Wrote the Dumbest Op-Ed Ever <p> Image Credit : Matt Winkelmeyer/Getty Images <p> At the time , it seemed like a sensible enough idea . After all , during his 90-minute senior moment at the June debate against Donald Trump , Joe Biden looked like a surefire loser . So why should n't Clooney , a major Democratic fundraiser , write an op-ed for The New York Times prompting the president to step aside and let a younger candidate run ? What could possibly go wrong ? Oy . But to be fair , Clooney was n't the only left-leaning celebrity who underdelivered this election cycle . Beyonc ? , Will Ferrell , Richard Gere , Katy Perry , Dick Van Dyke -- none of them were able to move the needle of public opinion enough to get Kamala Harris into the White House , not even Taylor Swift . In the end , America listened to Hulk Hogan . <h> Nicole Kidman ( and Other Actresses of a Certain Age ) Crushed it <p> Image Credit : Niko Tavernise/A24 <p> You ca n't go to the movies these days without bumping into Nicole Kidman ( literally , if you 're in an AMC theater , where Kidman 's " We Make Movies Better " pre-previews ad has been running for what seems like decades ) . At 57 -- once considered an awkward age for actresses -- Kidman never has been more in demand . Her steamy role in Babygirl , the new erotic thriller in which she plays a CEO who dabbles in a dangerous liaison with a much younger intern , won her the best actress prize at the Venice Film Festival in September . On the small screen , she headlined Netflix 's biggest hit of 2024 , ThePerfect Couple , and her series on Paramount + , Lioness , just got picked up for a second season . Nor is Kidman the only over-50 actress who had a terrific 2024 . Demi Moore 's harrowing turn in The Substance , playing an aging starlet who injects herself with an iffy youth serum , has earned the 62-year-old actress some of the most glowing reviews of her career ( " Fearless , " gushed The Guardian ) . Pamela Anderson , 57 , just won a Gotham Award for her role in The Last Showgirl , while Tilda Swinton and Julianne Moore , both 64 , are garnering raves for their performances in The Room Next Door , which won the Golden Lion in Venice ( after its premiere received an 18-minute standing ovation ) . There also were notable turns by 50-year-old Amy Adams in Nightbitch , 57-year-old Marianne Jean-Baptiste in Hard Truths and 52-year-old Karla Sof ? a Gasc ? n in Emilia P ? rez , to say nothing of Thelma star June Squibb , who in November turned a sprightly 95 . <h> Will Smith Was Forgiven <p> So , it turns out slapping Chris ? Rock in the face in front of 17 ? million Oscar viewers was n't such a terrible career move after all . Just two years after the smack -- and his 10-year banishment from the Academy Awards -- Will Smith was back on top of the box office , with June 's Bad ? Boys : Ride or Die grossing $404 ? million globally . <h> E.T . Went to Washington <p> There were , as always , plenty of extraterres- trials on screens in 2024 . A Quiet Place : Day One ( pictured below ) landed in theaters in June , grossing $261 million worldwide , followed in August by Alien : Romulus ( above ) , which grossed $350 million . Alien docs invaded the streamers , with The Manhattan Alien Abduction and Investigation Alien on Netflix and Beyond : UFOs and the Unknown on MGM+ . But the most entertaining alien show this year was in Congress , which in November continued hearings started last year to solve the mystery of real-life UAPs , or Unidentified Anomalous Phenomena ( what they 're calling UFOs these days ) . " Let me be clear , " testified Luis Elizondo , a former military intelligence officer who spent a decade running an X Files-like program at the Pentagon investigating unexplained phenomenon . " UAP are real . Advanced technologies not made by our government , or any other government , are monitoring sensitive military installations around the globe . " <h> LFG L.A. ! ( They Not Like us ) <p> Image Credit : Harry How/Getty Images ; Christian Petersen/Getty Images <p> Californians brought home seven golds from the Paris Olympics , then in October the Dodgers won the World Series and in December the Galaxy raised the MLS Cup . No less an authority than WalletHub crowned the city the nation 's top sports destination . We 're No. 1 ! <h> Men Began Wearing Shirts Again -- but Chest Hair Stuck Around <p> Image Credit : Frazer Harrison/Getty Images <p> Male movie stars started losing their shirts a couple of years ago ( see Timoth ? e Chalamet at the 2022 Oscars ) , but in 2024 , the masculine blouse made a triumphant return to the red carpet . The only thing was , a lot of guys apparently forgot how to button them up ( see Pedro Pascal at the SAG Awards or , for that matter , Glen Powell on the cover of May 22 's Hollywood Reporter ) . Not to be outdone by the men , some female stars -- like Bella Hadid , Zo ? Kravitz , Kendall Jenner and Jennifer Lopez -- also turned up on the red carpet this year with exposed ( although much less hairy ) upper torsos . <h> Joaquin Phoenix Had a Terrible , Horrible , No Good , Very Bad 2024 <p> Image Credit : Warner Bros. /Courtesy Everett Collection <p> Joker : Folie ? Deux was such a colossal flop that it could have ruined any actor 's year . The grosses for this surprise musical ( none of the trailers hinted there would be singing ) were disappointing to say the least , a fraction of the billion dollars the original made in 2019 . And the reviews ! Harley Quinn could n't have been more brutal with her bat , with one critic accusing director Todd Phillips of making the movie " bad on purpose " and another calling it " whatever the exact opposite of fan service is . " Still , despite all that , the 50-year-old Oscar-winning actor might have walked away from the wreckage in one piece . Except just before the film came out , Joaquin Phoenix stepped on another rake , pulling out of Todd Haynes ' gay romance movie five days before production was scheduled to begin in Mexico . He never offered any public explanation for his abrupt departure from the since-scuttled project , which only made the reputational damage worse . <h> Podcasters Became Kingmakers <p> Image Credit : Courtesy <p> He has n't yet been offered a Cabinet post , but that 's probably because there is n't a job in the White House that could make him more powerful than his current gig -- podcaster in chief . Joe Rogan 's three-hour conversation with an almost-stable-sounding Donald Trump just days before the election -- and Rogan 's subsequent endorsement hours before the polls opened -- may have normalized Trump just enough to sway undecideds ( some voters in Arizona told reporters that Rogan 's interview , streamed by some 40 million Americans , was a " deciding factor " ) . Had the results gone differently , by the way , we 'd be heralding Alex Cooper as a queenmaker , gushing about Kamala Harris ' October appearance on her Call Her Daddy podcast . <h> Former Kid Stars Finally Got Some ? Respect <p> Image Credit : Amy Sussman/Getty Images ; Arturo Holmes/Getty Images <p> There 's nothing new about child actors growing up to be pop stars -- Britney Spears , Olivia Rodrigo and Justin Timberlake , to name a few -- but it 's not every year a pair of them end up as Oscar contenders . Ariana Grande 's performance in Wicked and Selena Gomez 's in Emilia P ? rez are both generating tons of awards buzz . Meanwhile , Shake It Up 's former Rocky Blue , Zendaya , was on a hot streak in 2024 , playing a tennis coach in Challengers and a Fremen warrior in Denis Villeneuve 's Dune : Part Two ( and getting cast in Christopher Nolan 's next top-secret project ) . And let 's not forget Miley Cyrus , who just got nominated for a Golden Globe , or ex-Disney legend Lindsay Lohan , who had something resembling a comeback in 2024 , starring in Netflix 's Christmas comedy Our Little Secret and an upcoming Freaky Friday sequel . <h> Alec Baldwin Was Acquitted ... And Landed On a Reality Show <p> Image Credit : Ramsay de Give-Pool/Getty Images <p> The windup to Alec Baldwin 's trial in July took three years -- cinematographer Halyna Hutchins was accidentally shot and killed on the New Mexico set of his low-budget Western Rust in October 2021 -- but the proceedings ended up lasting just three days . The judge tossed out the involuntary manslaughter charges against the 66-year-old actor before testimony had even begun . A tearful Baldwin hugged his wife , Hilaria , and got back to his life , which will soon include a TLC reality series about the day-to-day inside the Baldwin household that 's scheduled to debut in 2025 . Rust , meanwhile , premiered in November in Poland . Baldwin was not invited . <h> YouTube Influencers Became the New Walter Cronkite <p> Image Credit : CBS/Getty Images <p> It was around Labor Day when I officially swore off network news . Election fatigue played a role in disconnecting , to be sure , but I 'd also found an alternative : YouTube pundits who spend hours live on their channels dissecting the top stories of the day and exploring every possible angle . They have names like DJ Akademiks and Kempire , who specialize in hip-hop and pop culture ; Emily D. Baker and the Florida Law Man , who break down legal headlines and filings ; and titles like Popcorned Planet , The Art of Dialogue and , my personal favorite , Tisa Tells . <p> As it turns out , I 'm not the only one who has made the switch from broadcast and cable news to YouTube -- a recent Pew Research Center study found that 54 ? percent of U.S. adults now get at least some of their information from YouTube newscasters , 25 ? percent of them on a regular basis ( especially , curiously , women , who make up 57 ? percent of the YouTube news audience ) . <p> If you happen to be on the other side of those percentages and have n't yet watched one of these " shows , " they have nothing like the slickly produced anchor chair- and roundtable-filled sets of CNN , MSNBC or Fox . Most hosts are operating with little more than their built-in computer camera and a ring light . There is no producer to speak of , and certainly not a teleprompter . Much of the time , these MCs are providing analysis in real time , sourcing their information from across social media and the internet and relying on their audience to fill in the blanks . <p> Tisa 's daily reports all start the same , with the effervescent host -- whose 5-year-old channel boasts nearly 500,000 subscribers -- declaring , " Heyyyy , what 's up , guys ? Well , baby , if your name is insert headline-grabber of the day ? ... " She goes on to synthesize the scandal , then dives into the paperwork , sharing any supporting evidence , and interjects plenty of opinion while taking in a high-speed scroll of comments . For some topics , she might speak for three hours straight . Tisa 's tally of videos related to Diddy 's sex trafficking trial and all its sordid tentacles : More than 1,000 . <p> Of course , there 's no department of standards and practices for these broadcasters -- or , for that matter , a long-standing tradition of journalistic ethics . YouTube does have strict community guidelines , although seasoned hosts know how to evade algorithmic censors ( which is why they sometimes speak in what seems like code , referring to , say , " PDF files " instead of using a red-flag word like " pedophiles " ) . As for vetting -- you know , whether or not the news they 're putting out in the world is true -- Tisa , for one , says her sources are as good as they come , and she attempts to independently verify each claim with five different methods , including public filings . If that 's good enough for her half a million followers , I guess that 's good enough for me , at least for now . <h> The Future of Driving Finally Arrived ... and Got Stuck in L.A. Traffic <p> Image Credit : Courtesy of Tesla ; Mario Tama/Getty Images <p> Getting around Hollywood was as maddening as ever this year , but at least there were some eye-popping new contraptions for commuters to ogle while idling at a red light . A fleet of fully autonomous Waymo taxis -- those driverless white sedans that look a bit like a cross between a Jaguar I-Pace and the robot from the original Lost in Space -- began operating in March in L.A. So far , there 's been only one major accident , but it was n't the Waymo 's fault ( in May , a human driver speeding at 86 miles per hour on the 10 east crashed into the back of one ; nobody was seriously injured ) . Even more head-turning ( and head-scratching ) was the armada of $100,000 Tesla Cybertrucks -- Elon Musk 's electric Hummer -- that started rolling into town late last year . Oddly , the soon-to-be-official vehicle of the Department of Government Efficiency was an instant hit in the most liberal city in America . <h> Pop Music Popped ( But Not for Katy Perry ) <p> Image Credit : Jason Kempin/Getty Images ; Mike Coppola/Getty Images <p> Taylor Swift won best album ( Midnights ) at the Grammys in February , Billie Eilish picked up artist of the year ( for her Barbie anthem " What Was I Made For ? " ) , Sabrina Carpenter ( speaking of former Disney stars ) opened for Swift 's Eras Tour and had one of the biggest singles of the year with " Espresso , " and Chappell Roan -- who just three years ago was performing " Pink Pony Club " in a Chicago park in front of all of 50 people -- played a historic set at Lollapalooza for around 80,000 fans , one of the biggest crowds in the festival 's history . But , of course , the pop gods giveth and taketh , and 2024 was less terrific for Katy Perry , who left her gig on American Idol to launch a comeback album she cryptically titled 143 . Or maybe that was its position on Billboard 's chart ? More of a snore than a roar . <h> Business Was ... Meh . And That Was a Win . <p> Sure , there was plenty of bad news in 2024 . The layoffs never let up ( as recently as November , CAA slashed 20 ? agents from its payrolls , and there was Paramount 's massive purge a few months before that ) , while film and TV production continued to slump ( down 40 ? percent at one point this year from its peak in 2022 ) . Still , the post-strike box ? office apocalypse that so many anticipated for 2024 never fully materialized , with billion-dollar hits like Inside Out ? 2 and Deadpool &amp; Wolverine followed by the biggest Thanksgiving feast in history ( Moana 2 , Wicked and Gladiator II ) that should result in theatrical being down a modest 5 ? percent or less from 2023 . Meanwhile , several streamers -- Disney+ , Paramount+ and Max -- finally reached profitability , something only Netflix could previously flex about . Even Comcast 's Peacock had an OK 2024 , losing a measly $1.4 ? billion this year , or about half of the $2.75 ? billion hit it took in 2023 . Granted , none of this has anybody in Hollywood singing a rousing chorus of " Happy Days Are Here Again , " but it does offer a glimmer of hope for the coming year . <h> What Was Old Is New Again ( Again ) <p> Image Credit : Parisa Taghizadeh/Warner Bros . <p> It was d ? j ? vu all over again at the box office , with 2024 's biggest hits -- Inside Out2 , Deadpool &amp; Wolverine , Despicable Me 4 , Beetlejuice Beetlejuice , Wicked , Dune : Part Two , Twisters and Moana 2 -- all reworking familiar IP . Of course , that itself feels a bit like a repeat ; in recent years , the biggest grossers have almost always been sequels , prequels or reboots , with only an occasional completely original concept slipping into the top ranks ( like 2023 's Oppenheimer ) . Audiences , though , obviously do n't seem to mind . In fact , in a year that was expected to be a box office disaster , two releases joined the billion-dollar club , with Pixar 's Inside Out 2 raking in $1.7 billion globally and Marvel 's Deadpool &amp; Wolverine grossing $1.3 billion . Still , being a sequel does n't guarantee boffo ticket sales : Paddington in Peru barely made any honey at all , grossing a bearish $40 million . <h> Diddy Was Arrested ... And His Streams Soared <p> Image Credit : Mike Coppola/Getty Images <p> After he was busted in New York in September -- charged with racketeering , sex trafficking , forced labor , kidnapping , arson , bribery , obstruction of justice and whatever crimes he may have committed with those 1,000 bottles of baby oil -- the 55-year-old music mogul saw his streams jump 20 percent . That 's not entirely surprising ; R. Kelly 's numbers nearly doubled after a 2019 documentary accused him of sexual misconduct with underage girls . Still , Diddy is in no position to enjoy his streaming spike . He 's incarcerated at the notorious Brooklyn detention center awaiting trial in May . If convicted , he faces 15 years to life . <h> Francis Ford Coppola and Kevin Costner Took Big Swings And Whiffed <p> Francis Ford Coppola sold his wine company and sunk more than $100 million of his own money into Megalopolis , his futuristic utopian epic that ended up grossing a very dystopian $12 million globally when it was released in September . Kevin Costner ditched his day job ( on Yellowstone , the biggest drama on television ) , mortgaged his 10-acre Santa Barbara home and sunk nearly $40 million of his own coin into the first two installments of Horizon -- his planned four-part Western movie series -- that he filmed back-to-back in Utah . The first movie performed so poorly , grossing a paltry $31 million when it opened in June , that the second one still does n't have a release date . Parts three and four likely will never be shot . <h> The Penguin Saved Gotham <p> Image Credit : Courtesy of HBO <p> And not just Gotham . Colin Farrell 's all-in ( and heavily latexed ) turn as Oswald Cobblepot rescued HBO Max from its House of the Dragon and Tokyo Vice funk while also liberating DC from the creative Arkham it had been stuck in the past couple of years . The eight-part series was set in the same gritty big-screen universe as 2022 's The Batman ( and its sequel , arriving in theaters in 2026 ) , but there were few references to a certain caped crusader . Instead , Farrell and executive producer Matt Reeves turned Batman 's wobbly supervillain into a Tony ? Soprano-like antihero , bringing the mob drama back to HBO Max and attracting a much larger audience than anybody anticipated . It was the streamer 's third-biggest first-season show ever . <h> Shockingly , Hollywood Celebrities Did n't Fix the Middle East ... <p> Image Credit : Adobe Stock ( 2 ) <p> ... although they tried , posting their opinions about the Israel-Gaza war all over social media , usually with career-cratering results . Starting at the end of 2023 , there was actress Melissa Barrera , who got dropped from Scream VII after resharing a post that accused Israel of " genocide and ethnic cleansing . " Around the same time , CAA agent Maha Dakhil -- who reps Tom Cruise , Reese Witherspoon , Natalie Portman and , until she started posting about Israel , Aaron Sorkin -- was forced to step down from her agency 's board after she described the Gaza bombing as " genocide " on Instagram . Then there was WME agent Brandt Joel , who shortly after Hamas murdered six hostages in September angrily posted , " Screw the left kill all , " on a WME WhatsApp group chat . He ended up deleting the comment and later apologized to his co-workers during a Zoom meeting . But even luminaries who never said a peep about the Middle East were drawn into the controversy , ironically getting singled out precisely because of their silence . In May , while stars filed into the Met Gala in New York , activists on TikTok launched " Block Out 2024 , " urging the masses to unfollow celebrities who had n't yet taken a stand against Israel 's war in Gaza . Kim Kardashian and Taylor Swift , both of whom have remained tight-lipped on the subject , reportedly lost hundreds of thousands of followers in the days afterward , although it was n't long before they picked them up again . <h> Blake Lively Apparently Missed That Day at Media-Training School <p> Image Credit : Lia Toby/Getty Images <p> Here 's a helpful tip for anyone promoting a drama dealing with the sensitive subject of domestic violence : Maybe do n't try to slip in a plug for your hair products line . Also , pitching the film as a giddy girls ' night out -- " Grab your friends , wear your florals ! " Blake Lively chirped in one TikTok spot -- is perhaps not the most appropriate tone for a picture exploring spousal abuse . Joking with an interviewer who asked a sincere question about fans wanting to discuss the themes of the movie with its star ( " You mean , like , ask me for my address , phone number ? " ) is probably a bad idea , too . In fact , for a full tutorial on how not to promote a picture like It Ends With Us -- the adaptation of Colleen Hoover 's best-seller about filial cruelty directed by Lively 's co-star Justin Baldoni ( until Lively wrested control from the contentious filmmaker and brought husband Ryan Reynolds in for some script tinkering ) -- just watch the actress ' eyebrow-raising press interactions and social media spots during the film 's summer press tour . <h> Congrats , Chris ? Weitz ! You made the Biggest Flop of 2024 <p> Image Credit : Jon Kopaloff/Getty Images <p> He directed American Pie , About a Boy and The Twilight Saga : New Moon , but here 's one he 'd probably rather forget . Weitz 's Afraid , a sci-fi thriller about a home digital assistant that goes haywire and terrorizes a young family , was the smallest-grossing major release of the year , making all of $6.7 million domestically and $6.2 million overseas , for a grand total of $12.9 million , or roughly the codpiece budget for Ridley Scott 's Gladiator II . <h> Jennifer Lopez Learned Love Does Cost a Thing <p> Image Credit : Courtesy of Amazon <p> Turns out love is n't always more wonderful the second time around . In February , just as Jennifer Lopez was gearing up to release This Is Me ... Now , a new album celebrating her romantic reunion with former fianc ? Ben Affleck , rumors began swirling that their relationship was in trouble ( again ) . Making matters even more awkward , the album was accompanied by an Amazon Prime musical as well as a documentary gushing about the couple 's latest love affair -- both co-written by Lopez and Affleck themselves -- even as the liaison was clearly already floundering . Sales for Lopez 's planned tour promoting the album in the spring were so sluggish , she ended up canceling to " focus on herself . " By April , after just two years of matrimony , Lopez filed for divorce . <h> Hollywood Left the Messaging to Western Union <p> Image Credit : Greenwich Entertainment/Courtesy Everett Collection <p> Looking back , the shuttering of Participant Media in April may have marked a turning point -- the waning of social messaging ( for now ) in films and television . For 20 years , the production company had boldly churned out social impact films like Spotlight , An Inconvenient Truth and RBG . But as 2024 unfolded , it became clear just how allergic Hollywood had become to politically charged content . Hard-edged documentaries like Union ( about the labor movement ) as well as No Other Land and The Bibi Files ( both about the Middle East conflict ) failed to find U.S. distributors , while A24 buried the release of The Sixth , its Jan. 6 doc , even while releasing a scripted Alex Garland drama about a fictional civil war . Even MSNBC chickened out , scheduling Separated -- a doc by Errol Morris and NBC News correspondent Jacob Soboroff on the child-separation scandal during the first Trump administration -- to air after the 2024 election . " Make your own inferences , " Morris cryptically posted on social media . 
@@119026208 <h> " It appears , however , that under the dark shadow cast by the war over all citizens of Israel , both Arabs and Jews , meaningful bright spots are emerging , " research leader Dr. Arik Rudnitzky remarked . <p> Over half ( 57.8% ) of Arab citizens in Israel , including Muslims , Druze , and Christians , believe the multi-front war has created a shared sense of destiny between Jews and Arabs , a survey by the Konrad Adenauer Program for Jewish-Arab Cooperation at TAU 's Moshe Dayan Center revealed Wednesday . <p> In June 2024 , 51.6% of Arab Israelis believed that the war was creating a shared sense of destiny between Jewish and Arab Israelis , indicating an upward trend . <p> In contrast , in November 2023 , nearly three-quarters ( 69.8% ) of Arab Israelis said that the war had harmed solidarity between Arab and Jewish citizens . <p> In terms of the relationship between Arab Israelis and the state in the December 2024 survey , over a third ( 39.4% ) of respondents said that their sense of belonging to the state has weakened since October 7 . Only 17.4% said their sense of belonging to Israel has strengthened due to the war . Israeli rescue forces seen at the site of a Hezbollah missile attack in the druze village of Majdal Shams , July 27 , 2024. ( credit : MICHAEL GILADI/FLASH90 ) <p> The survey additionally revealed that a third ( 33.9% ) of Arab Israelis define their Israeli citizenship as the most important element in their personal identity , compared to the 9% who regard their Palestinian identity as the dominant component of their identity . Of those surveyed , 29.2% view their religious affiliation as the most important aspect of their identity , and 26.9% view their Arab identity as the most important . <p> In comparison to earlier surveys , it is notable that the importance of Israeli citizenship to Arab Israelis has increased during the war . <h> The day after <p> In terms of the " day after " the war ends , when asked who should govern Gaza , less than half ( 43.2% ) believe that Gaza should be placed in Palestinian hands , marking a decline since June 2024 , when 58.5% of respondents supported Palestinian control of Gaza . One-fifth of those who support Palestinian control of Gaza support control of the Palestinian Authority , 15.8% support local Gazan entities in control , and 6.7% support Hamas maintaining power . <p> In contrast , nearly half ( 45.1% ) of Arab Israelis think an external non-Palestinian entity should govern Gaza . One-fifth support an international coalition , 17.9% support Israeli control , and 7.1% support Arab states taking leadership . <h> Normalization with Saudi Arabia <p> Regarding a normalization agreement with Saudi Arabia , half of the respondents ( 53.4% ) believe it could signal a positive regional development . Concurrently , 49.2% believe that resolving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict should not be a precondition to the agreement . <p> Within Israeli politics , over 70% support the inclusion of an Arab party in the Israeli government after the next elections , and half of the Arab public supports joining any government , not solely a center-left coalition . <h> Crime in Arab society <p> With respect to personal security , approximately two-thirds of Arab Israeli respondents reported a weak sense of personal security due to crime rates within Arab communities . A quarter of respondents also cited the ongoing war as contributing to their lack of personal security . In terms of economic security , two-thirds of the respondents said they are in a relatively good economic situation . <p> " It appears , however , that under the dark shadow cast by the war over all citizens of Israel , both Arabs and Jews , meaningful bright spots are emerging that could redefine the rules of the game in the post-war era , " Dr. Arik Rudnitzky , project manager of the Konrad Adenauer Program for Jewish-Arab Cooperation at the Dayan Center remarked on the study . <p> " The upheavals and turbulence in the Middle East in recent months ... have boosted the Arab citizens ' appreciation for their Israeli citizenship , " Rudnitzky continued , explaining the new " sense of shared destiny " between Arabs and Jews in Israel . <p> " This does not mean that Arabs in Israel now ignore their Arab and Palestinian national identity , " he added , " but it does form a clear statement from Arab citizens , signaling to both the authorities and the Jewish majority that they will willingly collaborate in the rebuilding of Israeli society and politics in the post-war era . " <p> The survey , with a +/-4.38% margin of error , was conducted by telephone from December 1 through 8 in Arabic . Five hundred Arab Israelis over 18 were surveyed . 
@@119026209 <p> " Today , I stand before you not just as Michael Levy , but as a brother , a son , a human being , and as someone whose life has been shattered by unimaginable loss and despair , " Levy began his testimony . <p> " My brother is one of the 100 innocent hostages currently held by Hamas in Gaza , " he said . <p> Or Levy , 33 , and his wife , Einav Elkayam-Levy , 32 , arrived at the Nova music festival on October 7 just nine minutes before Hamas terrorists launched their attack , Michael said . <p> He recounted his brother 's last phone call from a nearby bomb shelter to his family : " Mom , you do n't want to know what 's going on here . " Michael Levy , brother of Gaza Hostage Or Levy , addresses the UN Security Council , December 18 , 2024. ( credit : courtesy of the Hostage Families Forum ) <h> Unbearable suffering <p> " That was the last time we heard his voice . Ten minutes later , Hamas terrorists stormed the shelter . They threw grenades , sprayed people with bullets , murdered Einav , and kidnapped Or into the tunnels of Gaza , " Levy testified . " The last image we have of him is heartbreaking ... covered in his wife 's blood , shocked and terrified . " <p> Levy said if his brother managed to survive another day , every moment he remained in captivity would be a moment of unbearable suffering for him and all who loved him . <p> Or and Einav 's three-year-old son kept asking for his parents , Levy said . <p> " I 'm here today to remind this council and the world of duty ... not just as diplomats , but as people , as mothers , fathers , siblings , and friends , because this is not merely a political issue . This is a human issue , a moral issue , " Levy said . <p> " I want to ask every member of this council , what would you do if it was your child , your brother , your loved one ? " <p> According to Levy , " Hamas 's actions are not just blatant violations of international law ; they are an assault on humanity itself , " he continued . " Holding civilians hostage -- men , women , children -- is a violation of the principles that this very council was created to protect , and yet , your silence is deafening . " <p> " Your inaction is suffocating , " he added , " And for every day this council fails to act , the message to the world is clear : That some lives are worth saving and others are not . " <p> But , Levy said , he refused to accept that message . <p> He thanked the UN , US President Joe Biden , and US President-elect Donald Trump for their support . Or Levy . ( credit : Courtesy ) <p> " We place our deepest hopes and faith that you will bring this tragedy to an end , " Levy said regarding Trump . " Your decisive leadership has already brought life into a situation that feels so hopeless . We believe in your strength , your leadership , and your commitment to justice to help bring our loved ones back home . " <p> Levy concluded his remarks by saying Wednesday was his birthday , the second one without his younger brother , Or . <p> " I 'm not asking for any presents , celebration , or even a cake , " Levy said . " My only birthday wish is that you ... bring them home . Thank you . " <p> During the proceeding , Shira Efron , a senior director of policy research at the Israel Policy Forum , called on the UN to deliver an " unequivocal condemnation of Hamas and its actions . " <p> " There is a long-standing sense of UN bias , compounded by what Israel sees as an inefficient , insufficient reaction to October 7 and its aftermath and the evidence of the UNRWA staff 's ties to Hamas , " she said . <p> Israelis needed an international reaffirmation of the right of the Jewish people to self-determination in a state of their own and acknowledgment of the Jewish connection to the Land of Israel . <p> " Neither side will be partners in a political process that we both need if that process denies the legitimacy of these rights , " Efron said . <p> She added , " Just as it did when it passed the Partition Plan in 1947 , the UN has an important role to play in helping Israelis and Palestinians move beyond what has been the darkest period in their shared history . " 
@@119026215 <p> The family of Matan Zangauker marked his 25th birthday on Wednesday , his second in Hamas captivity in the Gaza Strip . <p> Hundreds gathered at the Begin Gate in Tel Aviv 's Kirya military headquarters , blocking traffic and demanding the release of hostages abducted on October 7 . Protesters chanted the captives ' names and held signs reading , " Enough with the abandonment , " " We are all Einav , " and " Matan , your mother is here , and so are we until you return . " <p> Einav Zangauker , Matan 's mother , made a heartfelt plea : " Let 's make one wish -- that Matan Zangauker will be the last hostage to mark a birthday in captivity . We wo n't leave anyone behind . " The protest concluded with yellow balloons released into the sky in honor of Matan 's birthday . <p> Ilana Gritzwoski , a former hostage and Zangauker 's girlfriend , addressed Matan directly : " My beautiful curls , today you are 25 . This is the second year you are far from me . Our room is empty , the hug is absent , and the life we built together is hanging by a thread . There 's no celebration , no cake , no candles to blow out together . " She also denounced government inaction : " The government betrayed us . It abandoned us on October 7 and continues to abandon us today . But we , the people , will bring you back alive . I love you always . " <p> Natali Zangauker , Matan 's sister , broke into tears as she described her brother 's absence : " My big brother is being held captive in Gaza . Now it 's my turn to do everything I can to keep him safe , to bring him back to us . A little sister should n't have to fight for her brother 's life . Matan , you do n't deserve to be there for so long . I love you and miss visiting you in Nir Oz and spending weekends with you . " Demonstrators protest and clash with police during a protest Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu outside the Prime Minister 's official residence in Jerusalem , December 14 , 2024. ( credit : Chaim Goldberg/Flash90 ) <p> " I miss cooking for you , your music , and even how you hated taking pictures with me . I want everything back . I want you back . " Struggling to continue , Natali was embraced by her mother , Einav , as the crowd chanted , " You are not alone -- we are with you . " Composing herself , she added : " The prime minister I admired during the elections betrayed us . How can we be abandoned for so long and incited against ? Matan , I promise we will bring you back . " <p> Speaking to the crowd , Yifat Kalderon , cousin of hostage Ofer Kalderon , said : " We never imagined we would have to fight for what should be obvious . There is only one person who does n't want to bring them home . He constantly prioritizes his coalition over our loved ones . I whispered in Einav 's ear when I brought her a cake that Ofir and Matan would still eat from it when they returned . This wo n't help anyone . " <h> Matan 's sign of life <p> Matan Zangauker was abducted during Hamas 's October 7 attack on Kibbutz Nir Oz , along with Gritzwoski , who was released in the first hostage exchange deal . A video released by Hamas last week provided the first proof of life since July . In the video , Matan addressed his mother : " Mom , I watch you , and I hear about you a lot . I understand the things you are doing . I am very glad to hear you are okay . I hope to see you again soon , that we will meet soon . I hope to sit with you again at the table , eat with you , talk with you , and drink with you . " <p> In solidarity , students from 200 schools walked out of their classes across Israel , demanding an immediate hostage deal . At a demonstration in Kfar Hayarok , Einav Zangauker reiterated her wish : " Let 's hope Matan is the last hostage to celebrate a birthday in captivity . " She thanked the teenagers for their support : " You are amazing people who strengthen us , the families , everywhere . Thank you for who you are for us . We will not stop fighting for any hostage . " 
@@119026217 <p> According to Cellier , the investigation uncovered deeply concerning details about Le Monde 's editorial practices . Testimonies from within the newsroom reveal that the French Jewish community was explicitly referred to as a " hostile community " during editorial meetings . Cellier further highlighted an incident where a journalist mocked a Jewish colleague , sneering , " So , how 's your aliyah project coming along ? " <p> The investigation also exposed glaring examples of biased reporting . A special issue commemorating one year since the October 7 attacks focused exclusively on " Gaza 's suffering , " completely ignoring the massacres and kidnappings that occurred . The following day , another article dismissed Israeli trauma as mere " whining , " further solidifying claims of anti-Israel bias in the paper 's coverage . <p> At the center of the controversy is Benjamin Barthe , the author of Ramallah Dream . Barthe is married to Muzna Shehabi , a pro-Palestinian activist and former negotiator for the Palestinian Authority . According to Cellier , Shehabi once wrote , following the death of Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh , " May God have mercy on him and all the martyrs , and may He destroy the Zionist entity . " This connection , Cellier suggests , exemplifies the ideological leanings influencing the paper 's editorial decisions . <p> Cellier argues that cancel culture has become a powerful suppression tool within Le Monde . He claims that young " woke " activists have taken over the newsroom , creating a climate of fear that prevents internal dissent . Journalists interviewed for the investigation requested anonymity but provided photographic evidence of propaganda plastered on the newsroom walls , mirroring messaging from the far-left , antisemitic political party La France Insoumise . The front page of daily newspaper Le Monde , with the headline , ' ' United Kingdom Leaves Europe ' ' is seen at their printing works following Britain 's referendum results to leave the European Union , in Tremblay-en-France , near Paris , France , June 24 , 2016. ( credit : REUTERS/CHRISTIAN HARTMANN ) <p> The investigation also sheds light on the strained relationship between Le Monde and its readership . Following significant subscriber losses after the October 7 anniversary issue , the newspaper 's reader relations manager was asked why the paper continues to lean left . His response : " The newspaper has n't shifted leftward ; it 's the French public that has become more right-wing . " <h> Le Monde has ' lost its right to be considered France 's leading newspaper ' <p> Dominique Reyni ? , head of the Fondapol Research Institute , delivered a sharp critique of the paper 's direction . " Le Monde has lost its right to be considered France 's leading newspaper , " she said . " It is now a media outlet with an ideological agenda , silencing dissenting voices under the guise of moral superiority . " <p> Cellier notes that while Le Monde has historically been seen as a pillar of French journalism , its current trajectory has sparked a broader conversation about media integrity . For the French Jewish community , however , this investigation confirms longstanding concerns about the normalization of antisemitism within influential institutions . 
@@119056108 <p> Speaking at a marathon four-and-a-half hour news conference at which he fielded questions from journalists and the general public , Putin said he would bring up Tice 's fate with Syria 's former dictator Bashar al-Assad who fled to Russia after his regime was ousted by rebels earlier this month . <p> " I promise to ask this question , " he said in response to a question from NBC News ' Keir Simmons , who attended the conference . <p> Putin , whose comments were translated into English , added that he had not seen Assad since he arrived in Russia , but referring to Tice , he said " a person went missing 12 years ago , we understand what situation was there back then . " <p> Putin covered a range of subjects during the conference , including the war in Ukraine , the economy as well as President Joe Biden , his successor Donald Trump and Israel 's war with Hamas in Gaza . <p> Joking about Biden 's pardon for his son Hunter before he was scheduled to be sentenced for his conviction on federal gun charges and in a separate criminal case in which he pleaded guilty to federal tax evasion charges , Putin said his American counterpart was " a politician . " <p> " It turned out that Biden is more of a human being , " he said . " I would not blame him . " <p> On Trump , he rejected a question that he would have a weaker hand in negotiations with the future president , insisting he was " ready for this . " <p> He said his " forces were advancing " in Ukraine , and Russia 's " defense capabilities are the highest in the world , same for our military industry . " <p> Asked about a ceasefire , he said it would depend on whether " the U.S. manages to persuade Kyiv . " <p> But , he added , " we do n't need a ceasefire , we need a long-term peace . " <p> The annual show is as much spectacle as news conference . Journalists and members of the public in the hall near the Kremlin wave colorful signs and placards to attract Putin 's attention . <p> Ordinary citizens submitted more than 2 million questions ahead of the show , Russian state media reported . <h> Analysis : Jokes ca n't mask the challenges Putin faces <p> Keir Simmons <p> Reporting from Moscow <p> When NBC News asked about the huge numbers of dead in Ukraine and this week 's assassination of Lt. Gen. Igor Krillov , Putin rejected the idea that he has lost strength . <p> Quoting Mark Twain , he said , " Rumors of my demise are much exaggerated , " which got a laugh from the crowd . <p> But the truth is often said in jest , and the Russian leader will undoubtedly be aware that he has faced setbacks in Syria , Ukraine and on the home front with several high-profile assassinations , including Krillov 's . <p> With President-elect Donald Trump set to enter the White House soon , Putin appeared to relent a little on Ukraine . " Politics is the art of compromise , " he said . <h> Putin ends marathon conference after 4 ? hours <p> Astha Rajvanshi <p> According to the ticker on Russian television , Putin 's annual end-of-year press conference has finally concluded 4 hours and 31 minutes after it began . That makes it one of his longest ever conferences , although not quite a record which he set in 2013 , with 4 hours and 47 minutes . <h> Russia would back a ceasefire in Ukraine on one condition <p> Astha Rajvanshi <p> Asked whether Russia would be willing to implement any kind of ceasefire , whether permanent or not , Putin says " on the condition that the U.S. manages to persuade Kyiv . " <p> However , he said , " we do n't need a ceasefire , we need a long-term peace . " <p> The Russian president claims that he has previously agreed to ceasefires proposed by the Hungarian and Turkish leaders and blames Ukraine 's president for stepping back from those deals . <h> Russia should have invaded Ukraine ' earlier , ' Putin says <p> Asked what he would do differently given the chance to go back to February 2022 -- when Russia launched its full-scale invasion of Ukraine -- Putin says the decision " should have been made earlier . " <p> " We started the events of 2022 without any special preparation , " he adds . " But why did we start those ? Because it was no longer possible to wait and stand still , and wait for the situation to get worse for us . " <h> Biden ' more of a human being ' than a politician , Putin says <p> President Joe Biden 's pardon of his son Hunter Biden is among the litany of topics Putin has covered in his press conference . <p> Putin joked about Biden 's official pardon of his son , who was set to face sentencing over federal gun and tax convictions , saying " silence is golden . " <p> Biden " is a politician , " he added . " And it is always important to know what are you more -- a politician or a human being . It turned out that Biden is more of a human being . I would not blame him for this . " <p> Earlier this month , the Kremlin criticized Biden 's reversal of his long-held insistence that he would not use his executive powers for his son 's case . Russian foreign affairs spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said at the time that it showed that the U.S. was " a caricature of democracy " in a comment to the pro-Kremlin newspaper Izvestia . <h> Putin 's pressers traditionally run long <p> Astha Rajvanshi <p> With Putin 's marathon press conference nearing the four-hour mark , the Russian leader has begun to tackle a " small blitz " of quick-fire questions . <p> Among other things , he 's talked about micromanaging officials and his wish to meet more often with his friends , among whom he names former German Chancellor Helmut Kohl and former French President Jacques Chirac . <p> Last year 's press conference lasted four hours and three minutes . <h> Watch Putin respond to NBC News about Austin Tice <p> NBC News <p> Putin told NBC News ' Keir Simmons that he would raise the case of missing journalist Austin Tice with former Syrian President Bashar al-Assad . <p> " I have not seen President Assad when he arrived in Moscow , " he said . " But a person went missing 12 years ago , we understand what situation was there back then . " <h> Zelenskyy calls for Western unity ' to pressure Russia into a real peace ' <p> David Hodari <p> Despite Putin 's claims during the press conference to be ready for " negotiations and compromises , " his would-be interlocutor , Volodymyr Zelenskyy , appeared to have a different take on what would be necessary to end the war in Ukraine . <p> The Ukrainian president , who attended this week 's European Council meeting , said in a post on X that " peace is possible if we stand united against Russian madness . " <h> Putin condemns Israeli military campaigns in Gaza and Syria <p> Astha Rajvanshi <p> When asked about the war in Gaza , Putin told reporters that he did n't know " what Israel 's ultimate goals are in the Gaza Strip , but this deserves only condemnation . " <p> Israel is " continuing its unlawful settlement activities " in Gaza , he said , pointing to the United Nations Security Council 's preferred two-state solution . <p> Putin also commented on Israel 's military expansion into the Golan Heights in Syria following the collapse of the Assad regime . <p> " I 'm under the impression that Israel is not only not planning to leave Syrian territory , but is going to strengthen its position there , " he said . <h> Putin blames YouTube for slowing speeds in Russia <p> Alphabet 's Google and YouTube should comply with Russian law , Putin said as he blamed YouTube for its slowing download speeds in the country . <p> " YouTube and Google must comply with our laws , must avoid any kind of fraud , namely , they must not abuse the network to achieve political goals of their governments , " he said . <p> Referring to slower download speeds , he said that after the West imposed sanctions , " Google cut funding and equipment supplies , and created problems for itself . " <p> In October , a Russian court demanded Google pay a fine so large that it was more than the world 's entire gross domestic product . But at the time , the Kremlin conceded to NBC News it was more a symbolic gesture for YouTube blocking 17 Russian television channels and other media outlets . <p> Asked if he was prepared to compromise " in any way " over Ukraine , Putin said that Russia has always said it is " ready for negotiations and compromises . " <p> " Politics is the art of compromise , " he added , before claiming that Ukraine is refusing to hold negotiations . <p> Ex-British PM Boris Johnson.AFP - Getty Images <p> Referring to peace talks held between the two countries in 2022 in Turkey 's capital , Istanbul , which led to the negotiation of a draft agreement , Putin blamed former British Prime Minister Boris Johnson , " a man with a nice haircut , " for Ukraine backing out from the agreement . <p> In September that year , Johnson told the British Parliament that " any such deal or compromise would send a signal around the world that violence does pay off ... and the great democracies will not have the stomach to stick up for freedom . " <p> Johnson told Ukrainians that " they need to fight to the last Ukrainian , " Putin said . <p> Moscow was " ready to engage in a dialogue without preconditions " with Ukraine , and that it would talk to Zelenskyy if he stands for elections and gains legitimacy , " he added . <h> Putin eyes maintaining Russian bases in Syria <p> Astha Rajvanshi <p> Returning to the topic of Syria , Putin said the fall of Bashar al-Assad did not constitute a defeat for Russia . <p> " We came to Syria 10 years ago to prevent the creation of a terrorist enclave , similar to what could be seen in certain other countries , for example in Afghanistan , " he said . " As a whole , we achieved our aims . " <p> Russian military and aerial support allowed Assad to cling to power at crucial moments during Syria 's 13-year-long civil war , with Russian airstrikes devastating the country 's cities and killing thousands . <p> Moscow 's air and naval facilities in Syria have long been a crucial hub for maintaining Russia 's influence in the Middle East , and Putin said earlier in his press conference that the Kremlin was in talks with Syria 's new leaders about maintaining its control of the bases . <p> " We already offered our partners , including those inside Russia and the neighboring countries , to use the Khmeimim air base to deliver humanitarian aid to Syria , " he said . <h> Putin invokes history to affirm strong Russia-China ties <p> Astha Rajvanshi <p> Bilateral relations between Russia and China are at an all-time high , Putin said , adding that there was " full trust and confidence " on both sides . <p> " We 'll do nothing that will undermine the confidence , " he said , calling Chinese leader Xi Jinping his " friend . " <p> The two leaders last met in the Russian city of Kazan at the opening of the BRICS summit in October , where Xi told Putin that " the friendship between China and Russia will continue for generations , and great countries ' responsibility to their people will not change . " <p> Invoking the history of Russia-China relations , Putin spoke of how the two countries fought together during World War II . " We were together back then and are together now , " he said . <p> During his annual press conference , the Russian president added that he was grateful to NBC News ' Keir Simmons , who asked a question about the killing for calling it an assassination because " it endangered the lives of others . " <p> Russia 's most senior military figure , Kirillov was killed by a bomb planted by Ukraine in a scooter in Moscow two days ago . <p> While Russia was ready for talks , Putin said that was not the case with Ukraine . <p> Putin was dismissive in response to another question from NBC News ' Keir Simmons , who told the Russian leader that when he meets with President-elect Donald Trump . Moscow will have the weaker hand in negotiations . <p> He said he did n't know when he would meet Trump but he was " ready , " adding that , " as for your comment about my weakness : those paying you wish for that . " <p> Mikhail Svetlov / Getty Images file <p> The president contended that Russia 's military has , in fact , become stronger in recent years . " Our defense capabilities are the highest in the world , same for our military industry . Our forces are advancing . " <p> He went further , saying that Russia , " to a significant degree is in the state we were aiming for . She has become stronger . She has become a truly sovereign country . " <h> Putin says he will ask Assad about Austin Tice <p> Astha Rajvanshi <p> Putin has said he will ask the deposed president of Syria , Bashar al-Assad , about the U.S. journalist Austin Tice , who went missing in the country 12 years ago . " I promise to ask this question , " he said in response to a question from NBC News ' Keir Simmons . <p> Assad fled to Russia earlier this month after being ousted by a rapid rebel advance that ended the country 's 13-year-long civil war . Despite harboring Assad , Putin said he has yet to catch up with his ally . <p> " I have not seen President Assad when he arrived in Moscow , " he said . " But a person went missing 12 years ago , we understand what situation was there back then . " <h> Situation is ' changing dramatically ' in Ukraine , Putin says <p> Russian forces are moving toward achieving their primary goals on the battlefield in Ukraine and were taking control of significant territory every day , Putin said . <p> " I must say that the situation is changing dramatically , " he said , adding that Russian forces were advancing along the entire battle front . <p> " There is movement along the entire front line . Every day , " he said . <h> Putin stays firm on nuclear doctrine changes <p> Astha Rajvanshi <p> The Russian president is circumspect when asked about whether the West understood last month 's changes to Russia 's nuclear doctrine . " I do n't know how they understood it , " he said . " You 'd have to ask them . " <p> He continued , saying about the West that " if such states pose a threat to us , we reserve the right to use our nuclear weapons against them as well . " <p> Last month , Putin made changes to Russia 's doctrine on the use of nuclear weapons , setting out new conditions for when the country could deploy its nuclear arsenal . <p> Under the modified doctrine , Russia would treat an attack by a nonnuclear state , backed by a nuclear power , as a joint assault . <h> Putin challenges West to ' high-tech duel ' on Oreshnik missiles <p> Astha Rajvanshi <p> The Oreshnik missile defense system is a " modern , very new weapon , " Putin says in response to a question referring to the West 's doubts about Russia 's missile capabilities . <p> He said Western experts and should challenge Russia " to conduct some kind of technological experiment , a high-tech duel of the 21st century . Let them identify a strike target , say in Kyiv , concentrate all their air defense and missile defense forces there , and we will strike there with the ' Oreshnik ' and see what happens . We are ready for such an experiment . " <p> The Kremlin announced Monday that Russia would launch the serial production of the missiles in the " near future " to " protect the security of Russia and our allies . " <p> Russian forces first deployed the Oreshnik missile late last month , striking the Ukrainian city of Dnipro , after Kyiv used long-range missiles provided by France , the United States and the United Kingdom to strike targets within Russia . <h> Laughter as Putin appears to scold the moderator <p> Keir Simmons <p> Reporting from Moscow <p> Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov who is moderating the conference scolded people for asking more than one question , only to be mildly mocked by Putin . <p> " You deprive others of time , " Peskov said to those peppering the Russian leader with questions . <p> But Putin 's reply , " Do nt ' listen to Peskov , " was greeted with laughter from the crowd . <h> Service members gift Kursk battle flag to Putin <p> Astha Rajvanshi <p> Alexander Nemenov / AFP via Getty Images <p> " We are advancing on all directions , " Putin says when asked about events in Russia 's Kursk region , where Ukrainian forces still hold territory . The situation there is " changing dramatically , " he said . <p> And as if to underscore that point , he mentions the military memorabilia given to him by troops who have been at the front . Two service members come up to the stage to hand him a banner from the soldiers of the 155th Marines Brigade of the Pacific Fleet and hold it aloft behind him . <p> When asked by a resident of Kursk 's Bolshesoldastsky district about the destroyed villages there , Putin said it was certain that Ukrainians will be pushed out and everything will be rebuilt , and that their push into the region was pointless in the first place . <p> But Putin added that he will not " make any predictions about specific date " about when either of those things will happen . <p> " When everything is stable , we are bored , but when something major happens , when bullets are flying around -- we are scared , " the Russian president says . <p> While he points to what he says is record low unemployment of 2.3% and growing wages , he concedes that " inflation however is a worrying sign . " <p> Still , he adds , " the situation is stable . " <h> Putin settles in with questions about the economy <p> Astha Rajvanshi <p> Natasha Lebedeva / NBC News <p> Putin takes the stage at 12:12 p.m . Moscow time . Jumping straight into questions , he talks about the Russian economy , telling his audience that " everything stands and falls with economy . " <p> Despite inflation in the country at 9.3% , Putin says the " Russian economy is doing good , " adding that wages and real disposable income have grown , with growth next year estimated to be around 3.9% . <p> Russia 's central bank may have to further increase interest rates above the current level of 21% that it raised the rate to in October . <h> Reporters and locals now inside waiting for Putin <p> Keir Simmons <p> Reporting from Moscow <p> After being subject to a Covid test 24 hours earlier , hundreds of journalists and some ordinary Russians stood in line on a freezing Moscow street as they waited to go through security and into the exhibition hall that began filling up two hours before the event began . <p> Natasha Lebedeva / NBC News <p> It 's an event that 's designed by the Kremlin to look democratic and to present Putin as a man of the people . Some attendees have arrived wearing traditional garb , hoping to ask about domestic issues like food prices . <p> Natasha Lebedeva / NBC News <p> The whole event is so carefully choreographed that even Putin , who is notoriously late for meetings , is expected to be on time . <p> Ksenia Sobchak , 43 , is in the audience . She 's the daughter of St. Petersburg 's first democratically elected mayor and she stood against Putin in Russia 's 2018 election . Sobchak says she wants to be in Russia . But the country has changed over the past six years and she may be asking herself by how much . <h> More than 2 million questions submitted to Putin <p> Astha Rajvanshi <p> Ahead of the conference , Russian citizens have submitted more than 2 million questions through phone calls , texts and social networks , according to the state-run news agency Tass . <p> The questions are expected to range from Russia 's war in Ukraine to domestic issues such as rising prices , inflation and health care . <p> Earlier this week , Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said questions would be collected from Russians in advance to allow the maximum number of people to lodge their appeals , in line with previous years . <h> Ukraine launches drone attack ahead of Putin 's speech <p> Ahead of Putin 's speech , at least one person was injured by Ukrainian missile and drone strikes on Russia 's Rostov region , officials said today . <p> Acting Rostov Gov . Yuri Slyusar said a fire had been triggered at the Novoshakhtinsk oil refinery after Ukraine had struck the region with at least 13 missiles and dozens of drone . He added that one person was injured . <p> The refinery has been repeatedly targeted by Ukraine which has been trying to take out parts of Russia 's oil infrastructure , which funds a significant chunk of the country 's war economy . <h> Putin takes questions from the public and journalists at his end-of-year news conference <p> Ordinary citizens will also have a chance to call in with their questions , while journalists -- some of whom lined up for hours in freezing temperatures to get into the Moscow event -- will also get to put their queries to the Russian leader . <p> Putin has heavily limited his interaction with the foreign media since fighting began in Ukraine in February 2022. 
@@119066112 <h> Why is Christian Science in our name ? <p> Our name is about honesty . The Monitor is owned by The Christian Science Church , and we 've always been transparent about that . <p> The Church publishes the Monitor because it sees good journalism as vital to progress in the world . Since 1908 , we 've aimed " to injure no man , but to bless all mankind , " as our founder , Mary Baker Eddy , put it . <p> Here , you 'll find award-winning journalism not driven by commercial influences -- a news organization that takes seriously its mission to uplift the world by seeking solutions and finding reasons for credible hope . <p> I 'm excited about Sophie Hills ' story in today 's issue . One reason is that it is fascinating -- a look at the growth and evolution of " cultural Christianity , " and what that says about the United States and American religion today.But just as exciting : It is Sophie 's first story in her new role as our faith and religion writer . She 'll focus on the intersection of religion and politics , culture , and ideas . And today 's article is a great start . <p> The Christian Science Monitor is an international news organization offering calm , thoughtful , award-winning coverage for independent thinkers . We tackle difficult conversations and divisive issues -- we do n't shy away from hard problems . But you 'll find in each Monitor news story qualities that can lead to solutions and unite us -- qualities such as respect , resilience , hope , and fairness . <p> The Islamic regime in Iran has had a bad run lately . The collapse of its ally in Syria . The weakening of its proxy militias in Gaza and Lebanon . Embarrassing intelligence failures . Bombardments by Israel . Rarely has Tehran been more isolated . <p> Yet on Tuesday , when supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei vowed in a public address that " The resistance to Israel and the West is not over , " he also spoke of a vulnerability from within . <p> " Everyone , especially women , should be vigilant about the enemy 's soft tactics and not be deceived by slogans and temptations , " he said . By " advocating for women 's rights ... they incite unrest in the country . " <p> The ayatollah 's warning comes amid a resurgence of the women 's rights movement that erupted two years ago when a young woman died while in police custody after being detained for not covering her hair properly . The incident kindled the most vigorous pro-democracy protests since the 1979 Islamic Revolution . Violent crackdowns drove the resistance underground , although many women continued to defy the hijab laws . Two factors have now brought it back into the open . <p> The first is a bill that would impose severe restrictions on women 's public attire as well as penalties for anyone -- including cabdrivers and restaurant owners -- seen to be abetting violations of its provisions . The second is the temporary release of Narges Mohammadi , the women 's rights activist awarded the Nobel Peace Prize last year , from prison for medical reasons . <p> Both of these factors may come to a head in the coming days . Approved by lawmakers in 2023 , the Law on Supporting the Family Through the Promotion of the Culture of Chastity and Hijab may be enacted as soon as this weekend . Ms. Mohammadi is due back in prison a few days later . <p> The regime has reason to be worried . Iranians are already battered by rolling power outages , mandatory rationing of winter heating oil , and a currency in free fall . In recent days , civil society groups have gathered tens of thousands of signatures on petitions opposing the new hijab law . <p> On Dec. 14 , the head of the Supreme National Security Council requested a delay in implementing the law . Even the measure 's supporters agree that it is probably unenforceable . <p> " Society has moved forward , yet officials are pushing a law that risks further alienation , " Azar Mansouri , a reformist leader , told Foreign Policy . <p> Nobel laureate Ms. Mohammadi , meanwhile , has used her brief freedom well . She spoke with the Nobel committee for the first time , resulting in international calls for her permanent release . On Tuesday , she spoke with CNN . " Whether I am inside Evin Prison or outside Evin , my goal is very clear , and until we achieve democracy , we are not going to stop . We want freedom and we want equality , " she said . <p> Swift turns in global events may alter the course of nations , yet in Iran , the battle over veils has unveiled a mental liberation . " Today , in Islamic Iran , women are experiencing an unprecedented awakening , actively pursuing education and striving to secure their rightful demands , " declared Mawlana Abdol Hamid , a leader of Iran 's minority Sunni Muslims , earlier this month . " Demanding one 's rights is not a cause for concern ; rather , it reflects the vitality and liveliness of a nation . " <p> You 've read of free articles . Subscribe to continue . <h> Help fund Monitor journalism for $11/ month <p> Monitor journalism changes lives because we open that too-small box that most people think they live in . We believe news can and should expand a sense of identity and possibility beyond narrow conventional expectations . <h> Digital subscription includes : <p> What is the Monitor difference ? Tackling the tough headlines -- with humanity . Listening to sources -- with respect . Seeing the story that others are missing by reporting what so often gets overlooked : the values that connect us . That 's Monitor reporting -- news that changes how you see the world . <p> About a year ago , I happened upon this statement about the Monitor in the Harvard Business Review -- under the charming heading of " do things that do n't interest you " : <p> " Many things that end up " being meaningful , writes social scientist Joseph Grenny , " have come from conference workshops , articles , or online videos that began as a chore and ended with an insight . My work in Kenya , for example , was heavily influenced by a Christian Science Monitor article I had forced myself to read 10 years earlier . Sometimes , we call things ' boring ' simply because they lie outside the box we are currently in . " <p> If you were to come up with a punchline to a joke about the Monitor , that would probably be it . We 're seen as being global , fair , insightful , and perhaps a bit too earnest . We 're the bran muffin of journalism . <p> But you know what ? We change lives . And I 'm going to argue that we change lives precisely because we force open that too-small box that most human beings think they live in . <p> The Monitor is a peculiar little publication that 's hard for the world to figure out . We 're run by a church , but we 're not only for church members and we 're not about converting people . We 're known as being fair even as the world becomes as polarized as at any time since the newspaper 's founding in 1908 . <p> We have a mission beyond circulation , we want to bridge divides . We 're about kicking down the door of thought everywhere and saying , " You are bigger and more capable than you realize . And we can prove it . " <p> If you 're looking for bran muffin journalism , you can subscribe to the Monitor for $15 . You 'll get the Monitor Weekly magazine , the Monitor Daily email , and unlimited access to CSMonitor.com. 
@@119070009 <h> The rector of the Estonian Academy of Arts said the move was in line with " most art universities in Europe . " <p> By SHIRA LI BARTOV/JTA DECEMBER 19 , 2024 17:28 <p> The Estonian Academy of Arts , known as EKA , announced that it was cutting ties with Israeli universities in December 2024. ( photo credit : WIKIPEDIA ) <p> An Estonian university has cut ties with an Israeli university , setting off a chain of rebukes from the government , and pressure from its board . <p> The rector of the Estonian Academy of Arts , or EKA , now says the decision to cut ties will be reviewed . The rector , Mart Kalm , also said critics of the decision had misinterpreted a " technical matter " for an ideological one . <p> " I should apologize for my imprecise wording , which has upset people , taken on a life of its own , and allowed misunderstandings to arise , " Kalm said on an Estonian news show . <p> The firestorm erupted after EKA canceled a design anthropology workshop with a visiting Israeli professor last week . The workshop with Jonathan Ventura , a professor at Shenkar College in Tel Aviv , was slated for February . <p> EKA also said it now has no partnerships with Israeli or Palestinian universities , citing " difficult international and in-house sentiments " surrounding Israel 's war in Gaza . In a statement on Tuesday , the university said that it " sympathises with all those who are suffering in the current war . " Kristen Michal Prime Minister of Estonia arrives at the European Council Meeting on December 19 , 2024 in Brussels , Belgium . ( credit : Pier Marco Tacca/Getty Images ) <p> The statement added , " EKA wants to provide a safe study , work and creative environment for its members , students and staff , regardless of generation , religion or worldview . " <p> He was joined by Minister of Foreign Affairs Margus Tsahkna , who said EKA took " a step in the wrong direction " considering Estonia 's friendly relations with Israel . ( When the country recently supported a United Nations resolution calling on Israel to end its occupation of Palestinian territories , the Estonia -- Israel Parliamentary Friendship Group of the Riigikogu , or parliament , called the move a regrettable departure from the norm . ) <p> Tsahkna also encouraged the university 's council , akin to a university board in the United States , to intervene in the decision . The council did just that after a meeting on Tuesday . <p> " The council advised the rector , together with his colleagues , to look at this issue , which has now become a much bigger issue , once again , and consider all the pros and cons , " said EKA Council Chair Maria M ? gi-Rohtmets . <p> Before signaling that he would review the decision , Kalm told Estonian media that EKA 's decision aligned with " most art universities in Europe . " A wave of European schools severed ties with Israeli institutions or agreed to divest from Israel-linked companies earlier this year , following student protests against Israel 's actions in Gaza in its war against Hamas . <p> Kalm also said he had corresponded with Israeli schools that " expressed their understanding " based on international sentiments opposing the war in Gaza . <p> Ventura , the Israeli professor whose workshop was canceled , told media that he wanted to avoid a flare of tensions , which he said he had already experienced at universities in Switzerland . <h> Estonia 's Jewish community <p> Some members of Estonia 's Jewish community have joined in the criticism of EKA . The country is home to about 2,000 Jews . <p> Alla Jakobson , chair of Estonia 's Jewish communal body , said it was " unacceptable " to end relations with Israeli scholars and students for " political reasons " and accused the university of contributing to an environment that fostered antisemitism . <p> " This decision sends out a worrying signal that undermines academic and cultural ties between Estonia and Israel , " the communal body said in a statement . " It is also contrary to the principles of academic freedom , international exchange of knowledge and cultural dialogue , and to the commitments made by the Estonian state when signing the IHRA definition of antisemitism in 2007. " 
@@119070012 <h> Bradley said there were multiple instances of graffiti on campus , with some of the content deemed by community members as antisemitic . <p> Vassar College saw extensive vandalism across its campus almost two weeks after its trustees declined to adopt Boycott , Divestment , and Sanctions policies , according to statements by Vassar College President Elizabeth Bradley and Vassar College Students for Justice in Palestine . <p> Bradley said there were multiple instances of graffiti on campus , with some of the content deemed by community members as antisemitic . <p> SJP claimed that a group of " autonomous actors " was responsible in an Instagram post , sharing photographs with red graffiti on campus buildings proclaiming " free Palestine " and " blood on your hands . " <p> The extent of the graffiti and damage to college property meant that the local police department would be involved in the investigation , according to Bradley . <p> " This mode of communication is not effective in fostering the community of dialogue and respect to which we aspire . Instead , it can make people feel intimidated , unsafe , and excluded , " said Bradley . Graffiti in a Goldsmiths University University of London bathroom . ( credit : Beata Konya ) <p> SJP attacked Bradley 's response for focusing on " the feelings of Zionist students " and ignoring the graffiti 's " call for divestment from the military-industrial complex . <p> " No amount of damage to Vassar buildings will ever compare to the devastation in Gaza . Over two-thirds of all buildings in Gaza have been destroyed by Israeli bombardment , and no universities remain , " said SJP Vassar . " We stand in solidarity with the autonomous actors who disrupted normalcy at Vassar today . " <h> BDS <p> The anti-Israel student group noted that the vandalism came a week after the Trustee Investment Responsibility Committee rejected divestment from weapons and surveillance manufacturers , which had been supported by members of the student body . <p> Fake wanted posters posted on the college walls attacked trustees and administrators for " investment in genocide , " according to SJP . <p> The TIRC issued a memorandum on December 2 thanking students for their input following a September Campus Investor Responsibility Committee to forward a proposal made by students in a May meeting for the institution to " divest its endowment from companies that design , manufacture , sell , and/or finance military and/or surveillance technologies . " <p> " The Board of Trustees , including members from TIRC , has taken time to discuss the proposal fully and weigh the various considerations and has come to the decision that Vassar will not divest from military investments . The board did , however , decide to enhance transparency about the policies and practices that govern our stewardship of the endowment , " said the TIRC . <p> " Almost 30% of the college 's operating budget each year comes from the endowment . Making an investment decision that does not have a basis in the college 's long-term investment strategy could have a negative impact on the ability of the college to support its educational mission over time . " <p> The TIRC noted that it does not select or directly control which companies the Vassar endowment is invested in but is managed through third-party managers and funds . It also added that the endowment had little engagement with defense and surveillance firms . 
@@119070014 <h> New Alameda County Board of Supervisors and San Francisco State University ( SFSU ) ESG investment policies were promoted by anti-Israel activists with BDS in mind . <p> Palestinians call to boycott Israeli products during a protest in support of the people of Gaza , as the conflict between Israel and Palestinian Islamist group Hamas continues , in Hebron , in the Israeli-occupied West Bank , October 28 , 2023. ( photo credit : REUTERS/MUSSA QAWASMA ) <p> Jewish groups sounded alarm on Tuesday about a new strategy to implement Boycott Divestment and Sanctions movement policies through ESG investment in the San Francisco Bay Area . <p> The Jewish Community Relations Council Bay Area said in a statement that new Alameda County Board of Supervisors and San Francisco State University ( SFSU ) investment policies were part of a new push by local anti-Israel organizations to " distort impact investing " or " socially responsible or ethical investing " into a " tool " for BDS against Israel . <p> While in both cases , Israel was not explicitly named , the JCRC Bay Area noted that " BDS proponents celebrated these as advancements of their priorities . " <p> The San Francisco State Foundation Board of Directors ratified last Thursday an investment policy for endowed funds that committed to environmental , social , and governance ( ESG ) investing that included divestment from weapons manufacturing and contribute to violations of international law and human rights . <p> " As part of including human rights in its investment policy , the Foundation shall not hold any direct investments in companies that primarily engage in or profit from weapons manufacturing and will make best efforts to minimize exposure to such holdings in indirect investments , " said the new policy , which had been approved by the foundation 's investment committee in August . Protesters calling for a ceasefire in the Israel-Gaza conflict follow members of the White House press corps in the hotel where U.S. President Joe Biden is staying in San Francisco , California , U.S. , February 22 , 2024. ( credit : KEVIN LAMARQUE/REUTERS ) <p> " We additionally strive not to invest in companies that consistently , knowingly , and directly facilitate or enable severe violations of international law and human rights . This commitment includes an annual review and ongoing monitoring of holdings . " <p> The SFSU General Union of Palestine Students praised the decision asserting the policy followed their protest encampment demands to divest from Lockheed Martin , Caterpillar , Leonardo , and Palantir . GUPS had organize protests at the Foundation meeting to show support the vote . <p> " As of today , these wins will now become a permanent policy that bars our university from investing in any company that violates international law , " GUPS said on Instagram . " The General Union of Palestine students calls upon every university president across the nation and internationally to divest from Israel 's genocide of the Palestinian people . " <h> New ' ethical investment policy ' <p> Last Tuesday Bay Area Divest praised Alameda County for initiating a process to divest $32 million in public funds from Caterpillar and to adopt an " ethical investment policy . " <p> Council on American-Islamic Relations San Francisco Bay Area explained last Thursday that the company was involved in the destruction of Palestinian homes . <p> D9 Caterpillar bulldozers are used by the IDF to clear infrastructure and uncover tunnels during its war with Hamas in Gaza . <p> " This divestment is a victory not only for Palestinian communities , but for all marginalized people being impacted by Caterpillar equipment at home and abroad , " Bay Area Divest activist Aline Ban said in a statement . " It reflects our shared values and sends a clear message that our tax dollars will not support corporations that profit from war , apartheid , and systemic oppression . " <p> According to the policy , Alameda will develop investment exclusion criteria that includes " fossil fuel extraction , the production and sale of weapons , or companies with a persistent record of direct involvement in severe human rights violations , such as war crimes , apartheid , and crimes against humanity . " <p> CAIR-SFBA Policy Coordinator Musa Tariq said in a statement that " The decision to divest from Caterpillar sends a clear message that public funds should not support corporations complicit in human rights violations . " <p> JCRC said Tuesday that while Israel was not named in internal documents , Israeli companies involved in oil , gas , or weapons manufacturing may be impacted , but Israeli renewable energy and sustainable agriculture should still qualify for investment . <p> The group expressed concern that Israel-based companies could be singled out using the broad mandate . As with ceasefire resolutions which " brought ugly antisemitism into our city halls and university campuses , " JCRC was concerned that the BDS campaign was " likely to result in further damage to the public safety of Bay Area Jews . " <p> Anti-Israel activists are " pursuing this largely hollow strategy because they recognize that explicit BDS proposals remain widely unpopular and are unlikely to pass in most forums , " said JCRC Bay Area . " To call this a victory for BDS is a stretch . It may remove some BDS-targeted companies from possible investment , but it may also open doors for new investments . On the whole , the effect is of negligible , if not zero , consequence for Israel 's economy and decision makers . " <p> JCRC Bay Area called on leaders to assure that the pursuit of ESG investing was not a roundabout way to implement BDS against Israel . 
@@119070018 <p> In the 1920s and 1930s in Europe , philosophers Gershom Scholem , Franz Rosenzweig , Walter Benjamin , and others relied on the refinement of advanced German thought without an inkling that anything was brewing in the country . They did not know , precisely because of their sophistication and hope in life , joined with materialization , that a monster was lurking in the shadows , planning how to kill all the Jews , one by one , and bury them under the ruins of Europe . <p> Thus Kibbutz Be'eri rested , until 6:30 a.m. on October 7 , among the sweetest of Israeli dreams . It is one of the border kibbutzim known for its pacifism , for seeking a secular tikkun olam , a mending of the world where man helps God to complete the creation . But then , the truth had only one color -- that of Jewish blood -- and the pogrom arrived on pickup trucks . <p> Batya Holin of Kibbutz Kfar Aza , who had prepared with five Gazan photographers a very successful joint exhibition , noted that four of them had disappeared in the days before the massacre . During the killings , the fifth photographer phoned her from within the border , where he had broken in with the monsters , asking her where she was , if there were soldiers around them , and if she was with her whole family . " He was digging for information , " Batya said . " Only then , while they were trying to break into our hiding place , did I understand that he was a terrorist . " <p> To believe that what happened is true , I had to watch , several times over , the footage that the Hamas operatives collected with their video cameras . I had to listen and listen again to 100 horror stories , visit the ruins , meet the survivors ... and it is still hard to believe with my own eyes and my own ears . In the shadows of the tunnels under the buildings in Gaza or up and down the no-man 's land between Gaza and Israel , the Hamas men had been given careful training and detailed instructions for months . Their preparations , like those of the Syrians and Egyptians for the surprise attack of 1973 , were not secret : Hamas leaders held meetings and distributed leaflets with instructions and maps . <p> The orders were : " While rockets are being launched from here Gaza and they are all taking refuge in their homes , invade , kill , rape , tear them apart , burn them , cut off heads and limbs . " Whose ? Everyone 's -- babies , mothers , children , older people , young men and women . And to take into captivity in Gaza the most diverse sectors of Jews , so that the blackmail would affect all of Israeli society . Former Hamas leader Yahya Sinwar on the backdrop of hostage posters . ( Illustrative ) ( credit : FLASH90/CANVA ) <h> The Hamas movement <p> Hamas leader , Yahya Sinwar , used his imagination well , ordering the tearing of children from their mothers ' arms and the killing of mothers in front of their children , inventing every possible way to make the terror more horrendous than that of ISIS , to exterminate in the cruelest manner possible . Sinwar commanded his men to kill babies , brutally rape women of any age , even girls , whether alive or dead ; to castrate men and boys ; to decapitate ; to burn entire families alive together , along with the symbols of their lives . Thus , he forever epitomized the savagery of his movement , making him the absolute leader of contemporary hatred . Sinwar placed Hamas at the head of a worldwide movement for the deconstruction of history that legitimizes rage as the emblem of life . That believes that it must take this action against all of civilization . <p> This movement has decided that the contemporary outcome of history and religion , including the Jewish-Christian civilization and the human rights culture , is advantageous only for those who created it , and so it is a tool of oppression to be ripped to pieces . The diabolical choice to tear down this civilization permits any means to destroy the " colonialists , " the " imperialists , " the " racists , " the rich , the white men , and , above all , of course , the Jews . This concept finds consensus far from Gaza . First in the Muslim world , which places the " Islamophobes " among the oppressors , and along with the students , the LGTBQ movements , the ecological movements that think the Earth will be destroyed by capitalist interests , and the Jews . <p> The UN , the Palestinian Authority , and even the Ivy League universities have still not condemned Sinwar 's atrocities . It is a crime whose " context " is what counts , and nobody expected that after a massacre like October 7 , the destruction of contemporary civilization would piggyback on an antisemitic atrocity . The plan , unlike that of the Nazis in their time , was to destroy the Jews by publicizing as widely as possible the resolve to make them suffer one by one . Hamas leaders repeated the promise " We did it , and we will do it again and again and again . " <p> Once the barbarians entered Israel , they roared down the roads by the hundreds in white pickup trucks and on motorbikes , shooting everyone they encountered , pedestrians and drivers , in the head , and chasing those who tried to escape . They were divided into units , some assigned to close public roads , while others headed for the countryside and the kibbutzim . They were systematic , coming back to seize anyone who might have escaped them . They opened the doors of the cars abandoned at the sides of the roads to make sure everyone was dead and finish off the wounded . Then they came together to shout for joy over the bodies of the dead : " Itbah el Yehud ! Allah hu Akbar ! " They all shouted with the index finger raised , indicating their blasphemous oneness of God , the primal call of jihadism : Allah is great . By cutting off the head of a baby , the murderer was fulfilling the mission of reconquering the land occupied by the Jews , purifying it of the Western and democratic culture. ? <p> Fiamma Nirenstein is an award-winning journalist and author , and former member of the Italian Parliament . This article , printed with permission , is an excerpt from a new book compiled by Moshe Kaplan , MD titled Extreme Trauma : October 7 as an Outlier in the Range of Human Potential . 
@@119071701 <h> membership ticker <p> We could use your help . <p> If you 've been thinking about supporting nonprofit Mother Jones this year , you could n't pick a better time than now . Any gift you make online -- this week only -- will be matched dollar-for-dollar , thanks to a $25,000 matching gift from a generous donor . Corporations and powerful people with deep pockets will never sustain the fierce journalism we do . That 's why we need you to show up for us right now . <p> If you 've been thinking about supporting nonprofit Mother Jones this year , you could n't pick a better time than now . Any gift you make online -- this week only -- will be matched dollar-for-dollar , thanks to a $25,000 matching gift from a generous donor . Corporations and powerful people with deep pockets will never sustain the fierce journalism we do . That 's why we need you to show up for us right now . <h> " I hate Judaism but love Jews and wish them a very pleasant conversion to Christianity . " <p> Fight disinformation : Sign up for the free Mother Jones Daily newsletter and follow the news that matters . <p> For a brief moment in November , the TheoBros , a network of militant Christian nationalist influencers , made news when Donald Trump nominated one of their allies , former Fox News commentator Pete Hegseth , to lead the Department of Defense . Hegseth attends a church that is affiliated with the TheoBro movement , and he has cited TheoBro patriarch Doug Wilson , a pastor in Moscow , Idaho , as someone who has had a major influence on him . While the controversies surrounding Hegseth 's alleged alcohol abuse and mismanagement of funds meant for veterans continue to make the news , the TheoBros have receded into the background . <p> But as it turns out , they are embroiled in a major controversy of their own . A simmering divide over how Christians should regard Judaism has ignited into a conflagration . The resulting rift has left two factions of TheoBros retreating into their separate camps -- one of which is doubling down on antisemitic rhetoric to a widening audience . <p> The backstory -- as much of it as I 've been able to piece together -- goes something like this : An undercurrent of antisemitism , which has long rippled through the TheoBros ' social media spheres , has intensified over the last year . In May , Samuel Holden , a pro-Hitler content creator , released a video that he called " White Boy Summer , " a nod to an earlier song and meme popularized by white nationalist influencers , including head Groyper Nick Fuentes . Holden 's video combined hyper-masculine and Christian nationalist content with pro-Nazi imagery . Wilson , the TheoBro patriarch , condemned the video , calling it " Nazi triumphalism . " <p> But Wilson 's acolytes seemed titillated by " White Boy Summer " -- or maybe they were just flattered . In the video , Holden tagged several younger TheoBros , including Texas pastor Joel Webbon , Utah pastors Eric Conn and Brian Sauv ? , and Stephen Wolfe , author of the 2022 book The Case for Christian Nationalism . Shortly after Holden released the video , Conn reposted it on X , commenting , " By God we shall have our home again , " a white nationalist slogan . The following month , Sauv ? posted , " Pride month is canceled . Welcome to White Boy Summer . " Wolfe , meanwhile , criticized Wilson for disavowing it . " A better tactic would be friendliness to these young rightwing guys , " he said . Conn , Sauv ? , and Wolfe did n't respond to questions from Mother Jones about their reactions to the video . <p> Webbon , one of the most outspoken of the TheoBros , praised the video in a June podcast . He clarified in an email to Mother Jones that he had initially " shared the Samuel Holden video without watching closely " and that he condemns " both Nazis and Bolsheviks/Communists . However , the latter is by far a more present threat today . " Yet the video 's message fit in nicely with some of the sentiments he had been expressing earlier in the spring . " You thought Christian nationalism was scary , " he posted on X in May . " Enjoy Jewish nationalism . " The same day , he posted : " America has long had a separation of Church and State . Perhaps one day we might also have a separation of Synagogue and State . " <p> " America has long had a separation of Church and State . Perhaps one day we might also have a separation of Synagogue and State . " <p> The disagreement over the video simmered for a few months . Then , this past fall , a skirmish erupted on X and in various podcasts over an accusation by German TheoBro Tobias Riemenschneider that Webbon had failed to adequately address the problem of a young man in his church who had allegedly been sharing pro-Nazi memes . Wilson sided with Riemenschneider , agreeing that allowing such hatred to go unchecked was dangerous for a church community . <p> In November , Wilson issued a statement he called the Antioch Declaration , a rambling document that eventually condemns " the racial and antisemitic theories of Adolf Hitler and neo-pagan doctrines of the Nazi cult . " Several prominent TheoBros signed on , and some wrote statements of their own . Wilson 's sidekick Toby Sumpter , a pastor in Wilson 's church , for example , endorsed his friend 's argument , adding in a blog post that a church that tolerated antisemitism was just as bad as one that tolerated homosexuality . In the same post , Sumpter called the " White Boy Summer " video " as gay as socks on a rooster . " Hegseth has n't signed the declaration , but his views on Judaism seem to align with those of the Wilson camp : He is strongly pro-Israel and posted on Instagram that he believes antisemitism " is running rampant on ' elite ' university campuses . " <p> Webbon , meanwhile , has dug in his heels . In the last few weeks , virtually all of his posts on X have focused on the TheoBro rift . For him , the problem with Judaism , at least theologically , appears to be the Talmud -- a sacred text of ancient rabbinical teachingsin Judaism that , he argued in an October blog post , not only rejects the notion of Jesus as the son of God , but also " effectively corrupts and totally undermines all of the Old Testament . " In early November , he posted on X , " I hate Judaism but love Jews and wish them a very pleasant conversion to Christianity . " <p> Later in November , in his podcast episode after Wilson released the Antioch Declaration , Webbon said that in his version of a Christian nationalist America , " No practicing Jew who has n't converted to Christianity will be able to serve in public office . " He called Judaism a " parasitical " religion in the subsequent episode . " What it has done historically throughout the ages is typically go into other countries , other peoples with other religions , and kind of cozy up but not really for their benefit -- not a mutually beneficial relationship , but where they ultimately get far more out of the deal than the Christian nation does , " he added . In mid-December , mixed martial arts champion Jake Shields appeared on Webbon 's podcast . Afterward , Shields posted a clip to his 800,000 X followers in which Webbon argues that ever since the Allies triumphed over Hitler 's Germany in World War II , Christianity has been diminished in the West . In an email to Mother Jones , Webbon said he stands by " everything I 've said about Judaism . It is a pernicious evil . " <p> Webbon 's damn-the-torpedoes social media approach to this conflict is somewhat ironic , given thathe learned how to shitpost from none other than Wilson . For the last six years , Wilson has been celebrating what he calls No Quarter November : " The month where we say out loud what everyone is thinking . " In a video a few years ago , Webbon described being inspired by Wilson not to censor himself . " You stay in your little corner , you stay on your little leash , because you 're like , I do n't know what will happen , " Webbon said . " But when you see some other guy do it , and you 're like , that 's the worst thing that can happen ? Vice writes an article about you ? Christianity Today Editor-in-Chief Russell Moore wo n't invite you to his birthday party anymore ? Like , that 's it . " <p> While a well-known figure in the world of the TheoBros , with only about 27,000 followers on X , Webbon 's influence outside those circles is difficult to determine . But there is some evidence that the antisemitism he and other TheoBros espouse may be breaking into the MAGA mainstream . The week after Wilson released the Antioch Declaration , Webbon appeared on the podcast of Calvin Robinson , a British Christian nationalist pastor , where he argued that the Talmud was " uniquely hostile to Jesus Christ . " Robinson posted that portion of the conversation to his 403,000 followers on X. In addition to his robust social media following , Robinson is connected to the Trump team : He spoke at a Trump rally at a Georgia church a few days before the election . <p> And then there is William Wolfe , a TheoBro who served as deputy assistant secretary of defense at the Pentagon in the first Trump administration . He has posted phrases that are widely recognized as antisemitic dog whistles , such as , " Notice things . And point them out to others . " That may appear to be anodyne , but antisemitic extremists use the word " noticing " to refer to identifying Jewish people in powerful positions . Around the same time , Wolfe posted , apropos of no previous conversation : " You know what 's a beach I love ? Hilton Head . " The initials " HH " are often used as neo-Nazi code for " Heil Hitler . " Wolfe did n't respond to Mother Jones ' request for comment . <p> The TheoBros ' attitudes toward Judaism differ starkly from those of adherents to the New Apostolic Reformation ( NAR ) , a rapidly growing charismatic movement that calls Christians to take over the government . As I wrote a few months ago , many NAR believers are fervently pro-Israel because they are convincedit will play a crucial role in ushering in the return of the Messiah just before the End Times . This scenario is n't entirely benign -- eventually , they believe , all Jews will convert to Christianity , and those whodo n't will perish . The NAR crowd 's extreme love for Israel can have a love-bombing quality about it : At NAR events , I have seen many charismatic Christians wearing Stars of David and Jewish prayer shawls . At one in Pennsylvania , a group of Christian teenagers set up a chuppah -- the canopy used at Jewish weddings -- and danced the horah . <p> The TheoBros ' fixation on Judaism , however , is much less admiring . It 's also an example of a broader shift on social media over the past year , where , against the backdrop of the war in Gaza , extremists have become emboldened to use more explicitly antisemitic memes and rhetoric . One prominent example of this is former bounty **26;1865;TOOLONG Stew Peters , who since October 7 has transformed from a garden-variety anti-vaccine activist into a full-onNazisympathizer . ( At the time of this writing , his most recent post on X was : " Putting a television set in your living room is like inviting a jew into your house . Using AI is like inviting a jew into your brain . " ) In June , Webbon appeared on Peters ' show ; he called the founding of Israel " one of the biggest mistakes in history . " He added , " There is no major world religion with a more hostile view toward the person and work of Jesus Christ , our savior and Lord , than Talmudic Judaism . " Peters has more than 550,000 followers on Rumble , the far-right platform where he broadcasts . <p> When asked for comment , Webbon clarified to Mother Jones that he does not " hold to Peters ' views . " In a separate email , he provided a link to a document called the " Statement on Natural Affections , " which he said he had helped write . The statement acknowledges " that Nazism was , and is , an anti-Christian ideology that exalts the state as savior and god " and that " while the Allied powers rightly opposed the evils of Nazis , that some of their actions violated Christian principles of justice and morality . " <p> Wilson signed the Statement on Natural Affections , but it does n't seem as though he 's forgiven Webbon . He recently withdrew as a featured speaker from a conference that Webbon plans to host next year . When I asked Wilson for comment for this article , he responded , " Because one of the accusations against us is that we only did the Antioch Declaration in order to placate commie publications like Mother Jones , I could n't risk any positive mention of us right now . " <h> Looking for news you can trust ? <p> Subscribe to the Mother Jones Daily to have our top stories delivered directly to your inbox . <h> DONALD TRUMP &amp; DEMOCRACY <p> Mother Jones was founded to do journalism differently . We stand for justice and democracy . We reject false equivalence . We go after stories others do n't . We 're a nonprofit newsroom , because the kind of truth-telling investigations we do does n't happen under corporate ownership . <p> And we need your support like never before , to fight back against the existential threats American democracy faces . Fundraising for nonprofit media is always a challenge , and we need all hands on deck right now . We have no cushion ; we leave it all on the field . <p> It 's reader support that enables Mother Jones to report the facts that are too difficult , expensive , or inconvenient for other news outlets to uncover . Please help with a donation today if you can -- even a few bucks will make a real difference . A monthly gift would be incredible . <h> DONALD TRUMP &amp; DEMOCRACY <p> Mother Jones was founded to do journalism differently . We stand for justice and democracy . We reject false equivalence . We go after stories others do n't . We 're a nonprofit newsroom , because the kind of truth-telling investigations we do does n't happen under corporate ownership . <p> And we need your support like never before , to fight back against the existential threats American democracy faces . Fundraising for nonprofit media is always a challenge , and we need all hands on deck right now . We have no cushion ; we leave it all on the field . <p> It 's reader support that enables Mother Jones to report the facts that are too difficult , expensive , or inconvenient for other news outlets to uncover . Please help with a donation today if you can -- even a few bucks will make a real difference . A monthly gift would be incredible . 
@@119099702 <p> WASHINGTON -- President Joe Biden will meet with Pope Francis in January , likely the president 's final international trip just days before he leaves the Oval Office , the White House announced on Thursday . <p> Biden accepted Francis ' invitation to visit the Vatican during a Thursday phone call with the pope , the White House said in a statement . The two men have met several times . <p> White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre said in a statement that Biden 's visit to Rome will take place from Jan. 9 to 12 , adding that Biden will also meet with Italian President Sergio Mattarella and Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni . <p> During Biden 's conversation with the pope , the two men discussed " efforts to advance peace around the world , " according to the White House . <p> " The President thanked the pope for his continued advocacy to alleviate global suffering , including his work to advance human rights and protect religious freedoms , " said a White House readout of the leaders ' call . <p> Before the White House 's official announcement , reporters asked Biden as he departed Marine One whether he planned to visit with the pope in January , a trip first reported by the Associated Press . <p> During the June meeting , the White House said that Biden and Francis discussed the wars in Gaza and Ukraine . <p> " The leaders emphasized the urgent need for an immediate ceasefire and a hostage deal to get the hostages home and address the critical humanitarian crisis in Gaza , " the White House said in the June statement . <p> The president was present at the start of the pope 's tenure in 2013 , when Biden , then in his capacity as vice president , led the American delegation for Francis ' inauguration . <p> Francis , 88 , ascended to the papacy in March 2013 after the resignation of Pope Benedict XVI . <p> Biden 's trip to Italy will take place later than his most recent predecessors ' final international trips in office . President-elect Donald Trump 's final international trip during his first term was to India in February 2020 , shortly before Covid-19 restrictions limited travel , according to the State Department . Former President Barack Obama 's final international trip as president was to Peru in November 2016 , and former President George W. Bush 's final international trip in office was to Afghanistan in December 2008. 
@@119102809 <h> US civil rights probe faults Philadelphia school district over handling of antisemitism reports <h> Federal education officials say the Philadelphia school district failed to show it protected Jewish students from harassment despite " repeated , extensive notice " that students , teachers and administrators were engaging in antisemitic behavior <p> The Philadelphia school district failed to show it protected Jewish students from harassment despite " repeated , extensive notice " that students , teachers and administrators were engaging in antisemitic behavior , the U.S. Department of Education has concluded after a federal civil rights investigation . <p> Philadelphia school administrators did not adequately address allegations that students were performing Nazi salutes , drawing swastikas on school property and uttering slurs and threats against Jewish students -- in some cases neglecting to even document the incidents , the Education Department 's Office for Civil Rights found . Federal investigators also cited complaints about allegedly antisemitic social media posts by a school board member , an assistant superintendent and four teachers . <p> The Philadelphia district , among the largest public school systems in the U.S. , did not evaluate whether a hostile environment existed in its schools , and did not demonstrate that it took steps to " eliminate any such hostile environment and prevent its recurrence , " the civil rights office said in a Dec. 18 letter to the district 's lawyers . <p> The letter noted that Philadelphia officials have agreed to take various steps to resolve the case . The agreement includes annual training for administrators , faculty and staff ; age-appropriate anti-harassment programming for students ; better documentation of complaints ; and an anti-harassment statement . <p> " The Philadelphia School District has committed to taking essential steps to redress any hostile environment in its schools so that Jewish students , like all students , can learn in an environment free from discriminatory harassment , " Catherine E. Lhamon , assistant secretary for civil rights , said in a statement . <p> The Anti-Defamation League , a prominent Jewish advocacy group , was among several Jewish groups to file complaints against the district earlier this year . The Education Department opened an investigation to determine whether district officials appropriately responded to the alleged harassment as required under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 , which prohibits discrimination based on shared ancestry . <p> ADL said it hopes the agreement between the Education Department and the school district will help prevent additional harassment and targeting of Jewish students . <p> " We are grateful for the Jewish students and parents who had the courage to speak out against the pattern of antisemitic harassment , abuse and bullying they were experiencing , " said Jonathan Greenblatt , ADL 's chief executive officer . <p> ADL has filed similar complaints against other school districts , including Berkeley and Santa Ana in California . <p> The Philadelphia district said it " takes all complaints of bullying , harassment , and discrimination seriously , including allegations of antisemitism and Islamophobia . " The district also said it 's committed to " continue efforts to create welcoming and inclusive environments that allow our students to feel safe and heard . " <p> Federal investigators said they were concerned that district staff had retaliated against parents who filed complaints . In one such incident , a teacher identified the complainant by name on her Instagram account and wrote she was " taking the gloves off , " adding : " Zionism is Racism , " the civil rights office said in its letter . Another teacher reposted the first teacher 's post and wrote : " These are some disgusting , cowardly , genocide supporting fools . They thought they could hide . " <p> Andrew Goretsky , the director of ADL 's Philadelphia office , said ADL believes that antisemitic harassment , assault and vandalism are underreported because of fears of retaliation . <p> Colleges , universities and high schools nationwide saw a wave of pro-Palestinian student protests in response to Israel 's war against Hamas in Gaza . The war began when Hamas attacked Israel in October 2023 , taking hostages and killing 1,200 people , mostly civilians . More than 45,000 Palestinians have been killed in 14 months of war , according to Gaza 's health ministry , which does not distinguish between civilians and combatants . <p> A congressional hearing earlier this year spotlighted antisemitism in K-12 education , with the leaders of New York City Public Schools , the Montgomery County Public Schools in Maryland , and the Berkeley Unified School District in California all vigorously denying they had failed to address hostility toward Jewish people . <p> Copyright 2024 The Associated Press . All rights reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten or redistributed without permission . <h> Watch this discussion.Stop watching this discussion . <h> ( 0 ) comments <h> Welcome to the discussion . <p> Keep it Clean . Please avoid obscene , vulgar , lewd , racist or sexually-oriented language.PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.Do n't Threaten . Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.Be Truthful . Do n't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.Be Nice . No racism , sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.Be Proactive . Use the ' Report ' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us . We 'd love to hear eyewitness accounts , the history behind an article . 
@@119105000 <h> Share <p> Copy Link <p> copyShortcut to copy Link copied ! <p> Updated : 4:21 PM CST Dec 20 , 2024 <p> Well , not *** lot of detail was provided about the specifics of the call between Netanyahu and Trump . But there 's enough there that we can kind of read between the lines and understand the critical timing of that conversation and what it tells us about the kind of broader pattern here we know that the Israeli Prime Minister spoke with President Elect Trump about the ongoing negotiations to try and reach *** cease fire and hostage deal . The Israeli Prime Minister himself has said that they spoke about the need to complete Israel 's victory but also about the need to free the hostages . And so you can hear in that certainly that the Israeli Prime Minister is trying to make the case for both getting to *** deal , but also perhaps not the war in Gaza altogether until Hamas is completely defeated as he continues to kind of pursue this total victory that he has promised the Israeli public since October 7th of last year . What we also know though is that the Biden administration and the incoming Trump administration have been really working quite closely together to try and see if *** deal is achievable and not necessarily that that deal would have to wait until President elect Trump takes the oath of office on January 20th . Rather , when we saw the national security adviser , Jake Sullivan here in Tel Aviv last week , he talked about his hope that through his travels in Israel , but then subsequently to Cairo and to Doha that he could put in place what would be needed to get *** deal by the end of the month . And so that seems to be what all of the parties are racing towards is to see whether or not in the coming weeks , if *** deal can indeed be put together . We heard the Israeli Defense Minister today say in *** , as he was testifying before the Foreign Affairs Committee of the knesset , the Israeli Parliament , that *** deal is quote closer than ever . We have of course heard such such optimistic pronouncements from other officials in the past and Jake Sullivan was very cautious on Friday to say , you know , I 've been optimistic before . We thought we were close before and we did not get there . So they do n't wan na uh say that *** deal is done until it actually is , but certainly there is cause for optimism and uh the the parties seem to be narrowing uh the gaps , how soon they can actually do that and whether they can get it over the finish line is anyone 's guess at this point . <h> Share <p> Leaving Israel is easier , Shira Z. Carmel thinks , by saying it 's just for now . But she knows better.For the Israeli-born singer and an increasing number of relatively well-off Israelis , the Oct. 7 , 2023 , Hamas attack shattered any sense of safety and along with it , Israel 's founding promise : to be the world 's safe haven for Jews . That day , thousands of Hamas militants blew past the country 's border defenses , killed 1,200 Israelis and dragged 250 more into Gaza in a siege that caught the Israeli army by surprise and stunned a nation that prides itself on military prowess . This time , during what became known as Israel 's 9/11 , the army did n't come for hours.Ten days later , a pregnant Carmel , her husband and their toddler boarded a flight to Australia , which was looking for people in her husband 's profession . And they spun the explanation to friends and family as something other than permanent -- " relocation " is the easier-to-swallow term -- acutely aware of the familial strain and the shame that have shadowed Israelis who leave for good . " We told them we 're going to get out of the line of fire for awhile , " Carmel said more than a year later from her family 's new home in Melbourne . " It was n't a hard decision . But it was very hard to talk to them about it . It was even hard to admit it to ourselves . " Thousands of Israelis have left the country since Oct. 7 , 2023 , according to government statistics and immigration tallies released by destination countries such as Canada and Germany . There 's concern about whether it will drive a " brain drain " in sectors like medicine and tech . Migration experts say it 's possible people leaving Israel will surpass the number of immigrants to Israel in 2024 , according to Sergio DellaPergola , a statistician and professor emeritus of Hebrew University in Jerusalem.Thousands of Israelis have opted to pay the financial , emotional and social costs of moving out since the Oct. 7 attack , according to government statistics and families who spoke to The Associated Press in recent months after emigrating to Canada , Spain and Australia.Israel 's population continues to grow toward 10 million people . But it 's possible that 2024 ends with more Israelis leaving the country than coming in . That 's even as Israel and Hezbollah reached a fragile ceasefire along the border with Lebanon and Israel and Hamas inch toward a pause in Gaza.Israel 's Central Bureau of Statistics estimated in September that 40,600 Israelis departed long-term over the first seven months of 2024 , a 59% increase over the same period a year earlier , when 25,500 people left . Monthly , 2,200 more people departed this year than in 2023 , CBS reported.The Israeli Ministry of Immigration and Absorption , which does not deal with people leaving , said more than 33,000 people have moved to Israel since the start of the war , about on par with previous years . The interior minister refused to comment for this story , a spokesperson said.Other clues , too , point to a notable departure of Israelis since the Oct. 7 attacks . Gil Fire , deputy director of Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center , said that some of its star specialists with fellowship postings of a few years in other countries began to waver about returning . " Before the war , they always came back and it was not really considered an option to stay . And during the war we started to see a change , " he said . " They said to us , ' We will stay another year , maybe two years , maybe more . ' " Fire says it 's " an issue of concern " enough for him to plan in-person visits with these doctors to try to draw them back to Israel.Michal Harel , who moved with her husband to Toronto in 2019 , said that almost immediately after the attacks the phone began ringing -- with other Israelis seeking advice about moving to Canada . On Nov. 23 , 2023 , the couple set up a website to help Israelis navigate moving , which can cost at least 100,000 Israeli shekels , or about $28,000 , Harel and other Israeli relocation experts said.Not everyone in Israel can just pack up and move overseas . Many of those who have made the move have foreign passports , jobs at multinational corporations or can work remotely . People in Gaza , where local health officials say more than 45,000 people have been killed , have even less choice . Harel reported that the site has received views from 100,000 unique visitors and 5,000 direct contacts in 2024 alone.Aliya -- the Hebrew term for immigration , literally the " ascent " of Jews into Israel -- has always been part of the country 's plan . But " yerida " -- the term used for leaving the country , literally the " descent " of Jews from Israel to the diaspora , emphatically has not.A sacred trust and a social contract took root in Israeli society . The terms go -- or went -- like this : Israeli citizens would serve in the military and pay high taxes . In exchange , the army would keep them safe . Meanwhile , it 's every Jew 's obligation to stay , work and fight for Israel 's survival . " Emigration was a threat , especially in the early years ( when ) there were problems of nation-building , " said Ori Yehudai , a professor of Israel studies at Ohio State University and the author of " Leaving Zion , " a history of Israeli emigration . " People still feel they have to justify their decision to move . " Shira Carmel says she has no doubt about her decision . She 'd long objected to Netanyahu 's government 's efforts to overhaul the legal system , and was one of the first women to don the blood-red " Handmaid 's Tale " robes that became a fixture of the the anti-government protests of 2023 . She was terrified as a new mom , and a pregnant one , during the Hamas attack . This was not the life she wanted.Meanwhile , Australia beckoned . Carmel 's brother had lived there for two decades . The couple had the equivalent of a green card due to Carmel 's husband 's profession . Basic logic , she says , pointed toward moving . They were able to catch a free flight out on seven hours ' notice.And yet.Carmel recalls the frenzied hours before the flight out in which she said to her husband in the privacy of their bedroom : " My God , are we really doing this ? " They decided not to decide . They packed lightly . But weeks in Australia became months , and the couple decided to have the baby there . They told their families back in Israel that they were staying " for now . " " We do n't define it as ' forever , ' " Carmel said on Tuesday . " But we are for sure staying for the foreseeable future . " <p> For the Israeli-born singer and an increasing number of relatively well-off Israelis , the Oct. 7 , 2023 , Hamas attack shattered any sense of safety and along with it , Israel 's founding promise : to be the world 's safe haven for Jews . That day , thousands of Hamas militants blew past the country 's border defenses , killed 1,200 Israelis and dragged 250 more into Gaza in a siege that caught the Israeli army by surprise and stunned a nation that prides itself on military prowess . This time , during what became known as Israel 's 9/11 , the army did n't come for hours . <p> Advertisement <p> Ten days later , a pregnant Carmel , her husband and their toddler boarded a flight to Australia , which was looking for people in her husband 's profession . And they spun the explanation to friends and family as something other than permanent -- " relocation " is the easier-to-swallow term -- acutely aware of the familial strain and the shame that have shadowed Israelis who leave for good . <p> " We told them we 're going to get out of the line of fire for awhile , " Carmel said more than a year later from her family 's new home in Melbourne . " It was n't a hard decision . But it was very hard to talk to them about it . It was even hard to admit it to ourselves . " <p> Thousands of Israelis have left the country since Oct. 7 , 2023 , according to government statistics and immigration tallies released by destination countries such as Canada and Germany . There 's concern about whether it will drive a " brain drain " in sectors like medicine and tech . Migration experts say it 's possible people leaving Israel will surpass the number of immigrants to Israel in 2024 , according to Sergio DellaPergola , a statistician and professor emeritus of Hebrew University in Jerusalem . <p> Thousands of Israelis have opted to pay the financial , emotional and social costs of moving out since the Oct. 7 attack , according to government statistics and families who spoke to The Associated Press in recent months after emigrating to Canada , Spain and Australia . <p> Israel 's Central Bureau of Statistics estimated in September that 40,600 Israelis departed long-term over the first seven months of 2024 , a 59% increase over the same period a year earlier , when 25,500 people left . Monthly , 2,200 more people departed this year than in 2023 , CBS reported . <p> The Israeli Ministry of Immigration and Absorption , which does not deal with people leaving , said more than 33,000 people have moved to Israel since the start of the war , about on par with previous years . The interior minister refused to comment for this story , a spokesperson said . <p> Other clues , too , point to a notable departure of Israelis since the Oct. 7 attacks . Gil Fire , deputy director of Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center , said that some of its star specialists with fellowship postings of a few years in other countries began to waver about returning . <p> " Before the war , they always came back and it was not really considered an option to stay . And during the war we started to see a change , " he said . " They said to us , ' We will stay another year , maybe two years , maybe more . ' " <p> Fire says it 's " an issue of concern " enough for him to plan in-person visits with these doctors to try to draw them back to Israel . <p> Michal Harel , who moved with her husband to Toronto in 2019 , said that almost immediately after the attacks the phone began ringing -- with other Israelis seeking advice about moving to Canada . On Nov. 23 , 2023 , the couple set up a website to help Israelis navigate moving , which can cost at least 100,000 Israeli shekels , or about $28,000 , Harel and other Israeli relocation experts said . <p> Not everyone in Israel can just pack up and move overseas . Many of those who have made the move have foreign passports , jobs at multinational corporations or can work remotely . People in Gaza , where local health officials say more than 45,000 people have been killed , have even less choice . Harel reported that the site has received views from 100,000 unique visitors and 5,000 direct contacts in 2024 alone . <p> Aliya -- the Hebrew term for immigration , literally the " ascent " of Jews into Israel -- has always been part of the country 's plan . But " yerida " -- the term used for leaving the country , literally the " descent " of Jews from Israel to the diaspora , emphatically has not . <p> A sacred trust and a social contract took root in Israeli society . The terms go -- or went -- like this : Israeli citizens would serve in the military and pay high taxes . In exchange , the army would keep them safe . Meanwhile , it 's every Jew 's obligation to stay , work and fight for Israel 's survival . <p> " Emigration was a threat , especially in the early years ( when ) there were problems of nation-building , " said Ori Yehudai , a professor of Israel studies at Ohio State University and the author of " Leaving Zion , " a history of Israeli emigration . " People still feel they have to justify their decision to move . " <p> Shira Carmel says she has no doubt about her decision . She 'd long objected to Netanyahu 's government 's efforts to overhaul the legal system , and was one of the first women to don the blood-red " Handmaid 's Tale " robes that became a fixture of the the anti-government protests of 2023 . She was terrified as a new mom , and a pregnant one , during the Hamas attack . This was not the life she wanted . <p> Meanwhile , Australia beckoned . Carmel 's brother had lived there for two decades . The couple had the equivalent of a green card due to Carmel 's husband 's profession . Basic logic , she says , pointed toward moving . They were able to catch a free flight out on seven hours ' notice . <p> And yet . <p> Carmel recalls the frenzied hours before the flight out in which she said to her husband in the privacy of their bedroom : " My God , are we really doing this ? " <p> They decided not to decide . They packed lightly . But weeks in Australia became months , and the couple decided to have the baby there . They told their families back in Israel that they were staying " for now . " <p> " We do n't define it as ' forever , ' " Carmel said on Tuesday . " But we are for sure staying for the foreseeable future . " 
@@119115603 <p> A woman pepper-sprayed by a passerby while raising money at a Brooklyn stoop sale for families in Gaza is calling for hate crime charges against another woman accused in the episode . <p> The victim , 40 , who requested her name not be used , was taking part in the sale on Pacific St. in Cobble Hill on Nov. 23 when Amy Kwalwasser , 53 , began taking footage of the group , some of whom were wearing keffiyehs . <p> " All proceeds to families in Gaza , " a sign attached to a tree in front of the stoop read . <p> The victim then began filming Kwalwasser herself , resulting in an exchange that allegedly ended with Kwalwasser pepper spraying the victim , said cops and the victim . <p> " A 40 year-old female victim got into a verbal dispute with another female individual . The victim was then sprayed in the face with pepper spray causing irritation to the eyes and swelling , " said a DCPI spokesperson Thursday . <p> Kwalwasser , a lawyer from Fort Greene , was charged with assault , assault with intent to cause physical injury , criminal possession of a weapon , harassment and criminal mischief , according to a court database . <p> The New York chapter of the Council on American-Islamic Relations and the victim 's lawyer , Ron Kuby , both say they have contacted the Brooklyn District Attorney 's Office several times to urge Kwalwasser be charged with a hate crime . <p> Kuby complains that the charges Kwalwasser is facing are not as severe as those faced by 28-year-old Taylor Pelton and others accused of spray-painting the homes of Anne Pasternak , the executive director of the Brooklyn Museum , and a museum board member . Kuby said the victim in this case hired him to make sure people who are thought to be Palestinian are treated the same way as people who support Israel when they are attacked . <p> " This general indifference to Zionist-inspired violence against actual people stands in sharp contrast to the vigor with which you prosecute crimes committed by Palestinian supporters against Zionist property , " wrote Kuby in a letter to two Brooklyn Assistant District Attorneys . <p> The case is under review . <p> " We take all allegations of bias seriously , " a spokesperson from the Brooklyn District Attorney 's Office told the Daily News . " The Hate Crimes Bureau is reviewing this case to determine if charges beyond those the police brought are warranted . " <p> Kuby , the victim and a witness provided video of the incident to The News . <p> According to another woman involved in the stoop sale who did not share her name , Kwalwasser told the group images of them would be posted online as an example of hatred towards Jews . The victim and her friends then began filming Kwalwasser with their phones . <p> " We 're helping five families who are being starved , " the victim says in one of the videos . <p> Video shows Kwalwasser then reaches out for the victim 's phone . <p> " She grabbed my phone and threw it violently , " the victim later explained . " First the phone hit the leg of one of our friends and then it hit the ground . " <p> A woman was captured on cellphone video using a chemical spray on another woman in Brooklyn . ( Obtained by Daily News ) <p> Another video taken at the same time shows Kwalwasser throwing the phone , and then someone from the stoop sale group reaches out and grabs ahold of her bag before Kwalwasser wrenches it free and heads across the street . <p> Another video filmed by the victim picks up the scene across the street a few seconds later , after the victim retrieved her phone and saw it was damaged . <p> " Come and repay my phone , " says the victim , following Kwalwasser as she continues to walk backwards while recording and screaming for help . <p> " We were keeping a distance and she was walking , slowly recording us and screaming like she was the victim , " the woman whose phone was snatched later told The News . <p> Kwalwasser then sprays the victim with pepper spray , the video shows . <p> " In a matter of seconds my face started to burn , " the victim said . " After some time the police came and one of them helped me to cross the street because at that point I could n't open my eyes anymore . " <p> " I was in shock . Is this happening to me ? " <p> Amy Kwalwasser , 53 , was captured on cellphone video using a chemical spray on another woman in Brooklyn . She was later taken into custody by police . ( Obtained by Daily News ) <p> The victim went by ambulance to NYU Langone Hospital -- Brooklyn , where she was treated and released . <p> Another video seen by The News shows Kwalwasser in handcuffs , being walked to a car by a pair of NYPD officers . <p> " Remember , you 're supporting terrorism , " she tells the group , who react with sounds of mock concern . <p> Kwalwasser was issued a desk appearance ticket by the NYPD to appear in court at a later date . <p> Kuby also represents victims of Jonathan Kaye , the Brooklyn investment banker charged with assault , menacing and harassment for allegedly shoving and punching a pro-Palestine group after the Brooklyn Pride Parade in June . Kuby also feels Kaye should have been charged with a hate crime . That case is ongoing . <p> The victim said it 's clear to her that Kwalwasser 's actions can be chalked up to bias . <p> " A civilized person would say ' I 'm sorry , I had a burst of anger , ' " the victim said . " Even if I am pro-Israel and you are pro-Palestine . " <p> Phone messages left for Kwalwasser were not returned . She is due in court on Feb. 11. 
@@119117912 <p> Hamas has been designated a terrorist organization by the United States , Canada , and European Union . <p> Ten days later , a pregnant Carmel , her husband and their toddler boarded a flight to Australia , which was looking for people in her husband 's profession . And they spun the explanation to friends and family as something other than permanent -- " relocation " is the easier-to-swallow term -- acutely aware of the familial strain and the shame that have shadowed Israelis who leave for good . <p> " We told them we 're going to get out of the line of fire for awhile , " Carmel said more than a year later from her family 's new home in Melbourne . " It was n't a hard decision . But it was very hard to talk to them about it . It was even hard to admit it to ourselves . " <p> Thousands of Israelis have left the country since Oct. 7 , 2023 , according to government statistics and immigration tallies released by destination countries such as Canada and Germany . There 's concern about whether it will drive a " brain drain " in sectors like medicine and tech . Migration experts say it 's possible people leaving Israel will surpass the number of immigrants to Israel in 2024 , according to Sergio DellaPergola , a statistician and professor emeritus of Hebrew University in Jerusalem . <p> " In my view , this year people entering will be smaller than the total of the exit , " he said . " And this is quite unique in the existence of the State of Israel . " <h> Early information points to a surge of Israelis leaving <p> The Oct. 7 effect on Israeli emigration is enough for prominent Israelis to acknowledge the phenomenon publicly -- and warn of rising antisemitism elsewhere . <p> " There is one thing that worries me in particular : talks about leaving the country . This must not happen , " former premier Naftali Bennett , a staunch critic of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , tweeted in June after a conversation with friends who were leaving . Israel , he wrote , needs to retain the talent . " Who wants to return to the days of the wandering Jew , without real freedom , without a state , subject to every anti-Semitic whim ? " <p> Thousands of Israelis have opted to pay the financial , emotional and social costs of moving out since the Oct. 7 attack , according to government statistics and families who spoke to The Associated Press in recent months after emigrating to Canada , Spain and Australia . Israel 's overall population continues to grow toward 10 million people . <p> Israel 's Central Bureau of Statistics estimated in September that 40,600 Israelis departed long-term over the first seven months of 2024 , a 59% increase over the same period a year earlier , when 25,500 people left . Monthly , 2,200 more people departed this year than in 2023 , CBS reported . <p> The Israeli Ministry of Immigration and Absorption , which does not deal with people leaving , said more than 33,000 people have moved to Israel since the start of the war , about on par with previous years . The interior minister refused to comment for this story . <p> The numbers are equally dramatic in destination countries . More than 18,000 Israelis applied for German citizenship in 2024 , more than double the same period in 2023 and three times that of the year before , the Interior Ministry reported in September . <p> Canada , which has a three-year work visa program for Israelis and Palestinians fleeing the war , received 5,759 applications for work permits from Israeli citizens between January and October this year , the government told The Associated Press . In 2023 , that number was 1,616 applications , and a year earlier the tally was 1,176 applications , according to Immigration , Refugees and Citizenship Canada . <h> ' They want to wake up in the morning and enjoy life ' <p> Other clues , too , point to a notable departure of Israelis since the Oct. 7 attacks . Gil Fire , deputy director of Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center , said that some of its star specialists with fellowship postings of a few years in other countries began to waver about returning . <p> " Before the war , they always came back and it was not really considered an option to stay . And during the war we started to see a change , " he said . " They said to us , ' We will stay another year , maybe two years , maybe more . ' " <p> Fire says it 's " an issue of concern " enough for him to plan in-person visits with these doctors in the coming months to try to draw them back to Israel . <p> Michal Harel , who moved with her husband to Toronto in 2019 , said that almost immediately after the attacks the phone began ringing -- with other Israelis seeking advice about moving to Canada . On Nov. 23 , 2023 , the couple set up a website to help Israelis navigate moving , which can cost at least 100,000 Israeli shekels , or about $28,000 , Harel and other Israeli relocation experts said . <p> Not everyone in Israel can just pack up and move overseas . Many of those who have made the move have foreign passports , jobs at multinational corporations or can work remotely . People in Gaza have even less choice . The vast majority of Gaza 's 2.3 million people have been displaced by relentless Israeli bombing since Oct. 7 , 2023 , yet no one has been able to leave the enclave since May . Before then , at least 100,000 Palestinians are believed to have left Gaza . <p> Health officials in Gaza say Israeli bombing has killed more than 45,000 people . <p> Speaking by phone last month , Harel reported that the site has received views from 100,000 unique visitors and 5,000 direct contacts in 2024 alone . <p> " It 's people who want to move quickly with families , to wake up in the morning and enjoy life , " she said . " Right now ( in Israel ) , it 's trauma , trauma , trauma . " <p> " Some of them , " Harel added , " they want to keep everything a secret . " <h> Leaving Zion , a threat to Israel and a shame ? <p> Aliya -- the Hebrew term for immigration , literally the " ascent " of Jews into Israel -- has always been part of the country 's plan . But " yerida " -- the term used for leaving the country , literally the " descent " of Jews from Israel to the diaspora , emphatically has not . <p> For Israel 's first decades of independence , the government strongly discouraged departing Israelis , who were seen in some cases as cowardly and even treasonous . A sacred trust and a social contract took root in Israeli society . The terms go -- or went -- like this : Israeli citizens would serve in the military and pay high taxes . In exchange , the army would keep them safe . Meanwhile , it 's every Jew 's obligation to stay , work and fight for Israel 's survival . <p> " Emigration was a threat , especially in the early years ( when ) there were problems of nation-building . In later decades , Israel became more established and more self-confident , " said Ori Yehudai , a professor of Israel studies at Ohio State University and the author of " Leaving Zion , " a history of Israeli emigration . The sense of shame is more of a social dynamic now , he said , but " people still feel they have to justify their decision to move . " <p> Shira Carmel says she has no doubt about her decision . She 'd long objected to Netanyahu 's government 's efforts to overhaul the legal system , and was one of the first women to don the blood-red " Handmaid 's Tale " robes that became a fixture of the anti-government protests of 2023 . She was terrified as a new mom , and a pregnant one , during the Hamas attack , and appalled at having to tell her toddler that they were gathering in the bomb shelter for " hugging parties " with the neighbors . This was not the life she wanted . <p> Meanwhile , Australia beckoned . Carmel 's brother had lived there for two decades . The couple had the equivalent of a green card due to Carmel 's husband 's profession . In the days after the attack , Carmel 's brother alerted her to the possibility of a flight out of Israel for free , if on very short notice , which she confirmed with the Australian embassy in Israel . Basic logic , she says , pointed toward moving . <p> And yet . <p> Carmel recalls the frenzied hours before the flight out in which she said to her husband in the privacy of their bedroom : " My God , are we really doing this ? " <p> They decided not to decide , opting instead for : " We 're just getting on a plane for now , being grateful . " They packed lightly . <p> On the ground half a world away , weeks became months . And they decided : " I 'm not going to go back to try to give birth in the war . " In December , they told their families back in Israel that they were staying " for now . " <p> " We do n't define it as ' forever , ' " Carmel said Tuesday . " But we are for sure staying for the foreseeable future . " <p> Associated Press writers Melanie Lidman in Jerusalem and Tia Goldenberg in Tel Aviv contributed to this report . Laurie Kellman is based in London and has been writing about politics and global affairs for the AP for 27 years . She reported from Israel from 2020 to 2023. 
@@119121603 <h> Follow Us <h> Trump wants to quickly end Gaza war -- can he ? <p> A man carries a Palestinian casualty to a hospital , in the aftermath of an Israeli strike , in Gaza City , Dec. 19 , 2024 . <p> Share <p> Trump wants to quickly end Gaza war -- can he ? <p> share <p> WASHINGTON -- <p> President-elect Donald Trump has signaled eagerness to wrap up the war in Gaza as quickly as possible , even as the outgoing Biden administration continues its last-ditch diplomatic push for a ceasefire deal . <p> Earlier this week , Trump said if the hostages held by Hamas are not home by Jan. 20 , 2025 , the date of his inauguration , then " all hell is going to break out . " <p> The warning is similar to the threat he issued on social media earlier this month , where he said , " There will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity . Those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America . " <p> It 's not clear what Trump plans to do in Gaza . When asked to clarify the threat , he said , " It means it wo n't be pleasant . " <p> Trump may deploy resources to place military pressure on Hamas , said Ahmed Fouad Alkhatib , a senior fellow at the Atlantic Council . However , it 's unlikely to be " significantly harsher than what the Israelis have brought to bear over the last 14 months . " <p> " There could be another element -- which I hope that 's not the approach -- to maybe squeeze some of that humanitarian aid going in , " Alkhatib told VOA . <p> It 's also possible that Trump 's threats are directed to Hamas members outside of Gaza and the countries that support them , and Trump might move to pressure those nations to cut off financing , Alkhatib added . Hamas is a U.S.-designated terror organization . <p> Hamas ' external wing may be more receptive to Washington 's pressure , particularly since its patron , Tehran , has been weakened through the loss of Hezbollah in Lebanon and the ouster of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad . Like Hamas , Hezbollah is an Iranian proxy , while the Assad regime was Tehran 's stalwart ally . <p> Trump 's warnings send " an unmistakable message to the people in the Middle East that the U.S. wants to get this done , " said David Makovsky , director of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy Project on the Middle East Peace Process . <p> This leaves Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu navigating between placating the ultraright-wing faction of his coalition -- which is pushing for building settlements in and even annexing Gaza -- and pleasing Trump , who wants credit for ending the war and potentially expanding the Abraham Accords to include Saudi Arabia , Makovsky told VOA . <p> The 2020 agreement brokered under the first Trump administration normalized diplomatic relations between Israel and the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain , then later with Morocco . <p> " Trump is not into building more settlements and staying in Gaza . Trump wants , I think , a Nobel Prize for a breakthrough with Saudi Arabia , " Makovsky said . " And I do n't think those things go together . " <p> Analysts say that even before taking office , Trump is already shaping the calculations of combatants in the Middle East . His pick for national security adviser , Representative Mike Waltz , gave the president-elect credit for last month 's ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah in Lebanon , brokered by the U.S. and France . <p> " Everyone is coming to the table because of President Trump , " Waltz posted on social media . " His resounding victory sent a clear message to the rest of the world that chaos wo n't be tolerated . " <p> US ' hopeful ' for deal <p> Meanwhile , the Biden administration has pledged to spend all the time left in its waning days to try to make a deal happen . U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Wednesday he is " hopeful " an agreement can be reached . <p> " Gaza has to be translated into something different that ensures that Hamas is not in any way in charge , that Israel does n't have to be , and that there 's something coherent that follows that enables the governance , the security , the reconstruction of Gaza , " he said . <p> That goal is still out of reach , despite Washington 's renewed diplomatic push with Turkey , Egypt and Qatar . <p> " I do n't see a scenario in which President Biden is going to be able to really fundamentally shift the needle here , " Alkhatib said . <p> He added that while Hamas may be motivated to secure a deal while Biden is still in office rather than after Jan. 20 when the U.S. is likely to drive a much harder bargain , they know that any assurances provided by the Biden administration may not be fulfilled by the Trump administration . <p> This despite officials from both the Biden and Trump administrations saying they are working together in handling global conflicts , partly to secure the transition period that may be seen by adversaries as moments of opportunity , said national security adviser Jake Sullivan . <p> " And so , the imperative on us , both the outgoing Biden administration , the incoming Trump administration , has to be to lash up more tightly than is typical , to spend more time together than is typical , and to try to ensure we are sending a common , clear message to both friends and adversaries in the Middle East . " <p> The common message from the two leaders is that the U.S. wants the conflict to end . So far , the warring parties are not listening . 
@@119121607 <h> Follow Us <h> Israeli settlers accused of setting fire to and vandalizing West Bank mosque <p> Palestinians inspect the damage done to a mosque , after a reported attack by Israeli settlers , in the town of Marda near the West Bank city of Salfit on Dec. 20 , 2024 . <p> Share <p> Israeli settlers accused of setting fire to and vandalizing West Bank mosque <p> share <p> Palestinian residents in Israel 's occupied West Bank city of Marda reported Friday that Israeli settlers set fire to and vandalized a mosque , writing slurs and threatening slogans in spray paint on its walls . <p> In security video taken from the scene , a masked and hooded person can be seen spray-painting the walls of the mosque . At least two others join the person , one of them carrying what appears to be a large jug or container as they head into the building . <p> Among the messages sprayed on the wall were " Death to Arabs , " and " the righteous will rejoice because he sees revenge , " a quote from the Hebrew Bible 's book of Psalms . <p> In a video statement Friday , Marda village council chief Nasfat al-Khufash called it a systematic terror attack . <p> " A number of settlers set fire and attempted an attack on a wider scale on the mosque , " he said . " These attacks are continuous and systematic by settler groups . " <p> A Palestinian inspects the damage done to a mosque , after a reported attack by Israeli settlers , in the town of Marda near the West Bank city of Salfit on Dec. 20 , 2024 . <p> Israeli police and the Israeli security agency Shin Bet security services said in a joint statement : " We see this incident as extremely serious and will act resolutely to bring the perpetrators to justice for rigorous trial . " <p> Meanwhile , the Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) reported , in a statement posted to the social media platform X , Israeli Air Force fighter jets -- under the direction of Israeli intelligence and the Israeli Navy -- struck Houthi militant targets overnight on the western coast of Yemen as well as deeper in the country . <p> The statement said it hit fuel and oil tanks , two power plants and eight tugboats . The IDF said hitting the targets " severely harms the military operations of the Houthi forces . " <p> The IDF said the Iranian-backed Houthi militants have " carried out repeated attacks on the State of Israel , in which unmanned aerial vehicles and surface-to-surface missiles were launched toward the country 's territory . " <p> Also Friday , Sweden announced it was ending funding for the U.N . Relief and Works Agency for Palestinian Refugees -- known as UNRWA . Sweden 's international aid chief , Benjamin Dousa , made the announcement on Swedish television , saying the decision came following Israeli lawmakers passing a ban on the agency from working in Gaza . <p> Israel has long claimed UNRWA was a front for terrorists . Sweden said it plans to increase its aid to Gaza in the next year but will do so through other aid agencies . <p> In a statement Friday , UNRWA chief Philippe Lazzarini called the decision " disappointing " and said it comes at the worst time for Palestine refugees . The agency chief said it will double the suffering the people of Gaza have " endured over the past 14 months since the horrendous Hamas attack on 7 October and the ongoing war . " <p> Lazzerini said he hopes Sweden reconsiders its decision . <p> The war in Gaza was triggered by the Oct. 7 , 2023 , Hamas terror attack on Israel that killed about 1,200 people and led to the capture of 250 hostages . <p> Gaza health officials say Israel 's counteroffensive has killed at least 45,000 Palestinians , more than half of them women and children , while Israel says the death toll includes thousands of Hamas combatants . <p> Hamas has been designated as a terror group by the United States , Britain , the European Union and others . <p> VOA 's United Nations correspondent Margaret Besheer contributed to this report , and some information was provided by The Associated Press , Agence France-Presse and Reuters . <p> The Voice of America provides news and information in more than 40 languages to an estimated weekly audience of over 326 million people . Stories with the VOA News byline are the work of multiple VOA journalists and may contain information from wire service reports . 
@@119137214 <p> The comments section is closed . To submit a letter to the editor for publication , write to letters@nytimes.com . <h> The <h> Lives <h> They <h> Lived <p> Remembering some of the artists , innovators and thinkers we lost in the past year . <h> Willie Mays <p> Mays during a game against the New York Mets at the Polo Grounds in New York , 1962 . Art Rickerby/The LIFE Picture Collection , via Shutterstock <p> The strange , sad period when the beloved Hall of Famer was exiled from baseball . By Devin Gordon <p> b. 1931 <p> Willie Mays <p> In November 1979 , less than four months after he was inducted into the Hall of Fame , Willie Mays was banned from Major League Baseball . He was 48 , six years into retirement , but he was still one of the most recognizable athletes on the planet . He still appeared on talk shows and network sitcoms . He still got mobbed in restaurants . Kids who were n't alive to watch him play still practiced his basket catch in the backyard and memorized his iconic numbers : the 660 career home runs ; the .301 lifetime batting average ; the 12 Gold Gloves in center field ; the 24 All-Star game appearances ( a feat possible only because M.L.B. hosted two All-Star games per year from 1959 to 1962 , and Mays played in all of them ) . <p> But he was also deep in debt , which was nothing new for Mays , except now he was no longer being paid like a superstar . For much of the 1960s , Mays was baseball 's highest-paid player ; in 1970 , his salary was $135,000 , or about $1.1 million today . And he always parted easily with his money . He gave it away to kids in his neighborhood after stickball games in the street . He lent it to friends he knew would never pay him back . He paid his housekeeper 's income taxes on top of her salary , even as he was in arrears to the I.R.S. himself . He also liked nice things : cars , clothes , furniture , houses . After his first marriage ended in ( costly ) divorce , he bought a multilevel home built into the side of a steep slope overlooking the Golden Gate Bridge , then added a spiral staircase running from the living room to the garage level so he could get to his convertible without going outside . <p> In the fall of 1979 , Mays was making $50,000 a year as a good-will ambassador for the New York Mets , the last team he played for , when the Bally 's Park Place Casino Hotel in Atlantic City offered him a 10-year contract for $100,000 per year to spend 10 days a month at the casino as a celebrity greeter . Sign autographs , take pictures , tell stories , play golf with the high rollers . Be Willie Mays . Mays did n't gamble , or drink , and even in retirement being Willie Mays depleted him , but he was always good at it , and he needed the money . <p> Today Major League Baseball has a lucrative partnership deal with FanDuel , the sports-betting platform , but in 1979 , the baseball commissioner Bowie Kuhn insisted that the entire sport would be tarnished by any kind of paid arrangement between a gambling operation and a baseball legend . Kuhn forced Mays to choose between Bally 's and the Mets , and if he chose Bally 's , he would have to accept banishment from M.L.B. -- no employment of any kind , no appearances on the field at Giants games , or the World Series , or the Hall of Fame . If he wanted to attend a game , he 'd have to buy a ticket . Choosing Bally 's was a rare act of defiance for Mays , a peacemaker by temperament who hated causing a fuss . But he felt disrespected by Kuhn . " They had no cause to go and dump me like that , " he told a Washington Post reporter who visited him at Bally 's in 1980 , a year into the job . " Baseball needs people like me . " <p> Bally 's put Mays 's picture on its poker chips -- along with his jersey number , 24 , but no mention of the Giants or any other trademarked imagery -- and his casino handlers packed his schedule , making sure to get their money 's worth out of him . Invariably patrons would bring up " the Catch " -- Mays 's game-saving over-the-shoulder grab at the Polo Grounds during Game 1 of the 1954 World Series -- and he always said the same thing : that he had made several better catches before TV cameras were commonplace , that he knew he had it all the way ( notice how he taps his thigh with his glove as he 's sprinting back for the ball ) and that the best part of the Catch was n't the catch itself but how fast he spun around and fired the ball back to the infield , preventing the tiebreaking run from advancing past third base . <p> Mays played so hard on the field and heaped so much pressure on himself to perform like a god that his body sometimes had to remind him he was just a man . At least twice in the middle of his career , he collapsed during games from exhaustion and spent the next few days recovering in a hospital bed . It happened again while he was working for Bally 's , onstage in front of 400 kids at a junior high school near Atlantic City . The school principal later told reporters that Mays " just collapsed like a Slinky toy . " This time he was unconscious for 15 minutes before being revived . Everyone thought he was dead . He was rushed to a hospital but then discharged just two hours later , and by the weekend , he was back to posing for photos and regaling gamblers . <p> Mays got some company in exile in 1983 , when the Yankee legend Mickey Mantle accepted a similar job at Claridge Hotel and Casino , prompting Kuhn to ban him too . Twice Mays petitioned Kuhn to reconsider his banishment , but the commissioner did n't budge . When Kuhn stepped down in 1984 , though , his successor , Peter Ueberroth , moved quickly to end what had become an embarrassment for M.L.B. , lifting the ban during spring training in 1985 . Mays and Mantle , the new commissioner declared , were " exceptions to the current guidelines . " They were , he said , " more a part of baseball than perhaps anyone else . " The time had come to resume treating them like it . <p> Devin Gordon is a writer based in Massachusetts . He is the author of ' ' So Many Ways to Lose : The Amazin ' True Story of the New York Mets , the Best Worst Team in Sports . ' ' <h> Shelley Duvall <p> She upended conventions about actresses -- and then left Hollywood . By Anthony Giardina <p> b. 1949 <p> Shelley Duvall <p> Legend has it that Shelley Duvall was hosting a party in Houston in 1970 when a couple of her guests , crew members on Robert Altman 's new film , thought it would be good to introduce her to Altman . She was only 20 and had never acted before , but that hardly mattered ; the wonder of early Altman is that everyone -- even the familiar faces -- seemed to be doing it for the first time . Not a lot of people saw the film she was eventually cast in , " Brewster McCloud , " but those of us who did felt as if we were experiencing the shock of the new . Keith Carradine would articulate the feeling four years later when , gazing at Duvall in Altman 's 1974 film , " Thieves Like Us , " he says , " I never seen nobody like you before . " <p> It was hard to miss the promise in her sweetly alert gaze . She seemed to be ushering us into the new decade , offering a preview of the emotional openness and sexual freedom that potentially lay ahead . After a decade in which we had to spend a little too much time with Julie Andrews and Doris Day , we were now being confronted by the sexual assertiveness of Glenda Jackson in " Women in Love " and Barbara Hershey in " Last Summer " orthe slow-burning anger of Carrie Snodgress in " Diary of a Mad Housewife . " Duvall 's distinction lay in couching her assertiveness in something softer , less threatening , that still let you know she could see right through any potential romantic partner and fully expected him not to measure up to much . <p> After discovering in " Brewster McCloud " that the boy ( Bud Cort ) she has effortlessly seduced is a virgin , she says , " That means that I 'm responsible for you from now on . " Lest that seem a little too soft , she was ready to remind you that she was nobody 's pushover . In the same movie , she concludes the story of an attempted rape by blithely intoning : " I hit him with a lug wrench . " Pauline Kael got it right when she wrote that Duvall " seems able to be herself on the screen in a way that nobody has ever been before . " <p> Women found something liberating in Duvall . She offered them permission to violate the conventions of how a woman was supposed to look and act : the spider-web eyelashes she sported at the outset , the endlessly long legs landing in checkerboard knee socks and platform sandals in " Nashville . " Her pouty , off-center beauty was perfect for 1970s Hollywood in its attempt to make stars out of actors whose looks were more real . <p> For a while , it must have seemed as if the sky was the limit . Duvall 's development into a serious actress led to a nuanced performance in Altman 's 1977 film , " 3 Women . " Playing an insecure , delusional health care worker , she finally got to show some hard metal , layering it so skillfully with vulnerability that she won best actress at Cannes that year . You might have expected parts like Norma Rae to come her way . <p> Instead , she got Stanley Kubrick and " The Shining . " Her performance in that film is often described as " iconic " ; it 's the one most people know her by . But it amounted to a kind of dead end . According to Duvall , Kubrick cast her because " he said I was great at crying . " That 's mostly what she does in " The Shining " : cry and scream , while Jack Nicholson comes after her with an ax . But who wanted to see Shelley Duvall doing that ? If you had been rooting for her since " Brewster McCloud , " you could be forgiven for wanting to shout at the screen , " Shelley , where 's that lug wrench ? " In its own way , " The Shining " seemed to betray the early- ' 70s promise that by the end of the decade women were going to have something better to do than run from thuggish , violent men . <p> Duvall 's experience during the grueling 56-week " Shining " shoot seems to have done her in . She had nice things to say about Kubrick , but they alternated with darker thoughts : " I will never give that much again . If you want to get into pain and call it art , go ahead , but not with me . " In the ' 80s , she played smaller parts before turning to producing the admirable " Faerie Tale Theatre " for television . Then , in the ' 90s , she left Hollywood and , in the company of her musician partner , Dan Gilroy , became again what she started out as : a Texas girl . She moved to Blanco , a Hill Country town with a diner moonlighting as a bowling alley and a used-book store heavy on the works of Fred Gipson ( author of " Old Yeller " ) . " I would n't say I became a recluse , " she said . " I just took time out . " The time stretched to 30 years , punctuated by rumors of mental illness brought about by a sensationalized appearance on the " Dr. Phil " show . She seems , in her later years , to have most enjoyed driving around in her Toyota 4Runner , rarely getting out of the car . <p> Local restaurateurs took care of her , taking food to her vehicle . And fans kept coming to the Hill Country , hoping for " Shelley sightings . " My own took place a dozen years ago , in a restaurant in Johnson City , not far from Blanco . I was finishing my cherry pie when a woman I did n't recognize came in , little bells dangling from her boots , demanding that she be served " no organ meat . " The eccentricity and assertiveness should have tipped me off . When I asked my waitress who she was , she whispered , " I do n't know , but I hear she used to be a really big movie star . " <p> Anthony Giardina is the author , most recently , of the plays " The City of Conversation " and " Dan Cody 's Yacht . " <h> Phil Donahue and Ruth Westheimer <p> Together , they told us everything we wanted to know about sex . By Wesley Morris <p> b. 1935/1928 <p> Phil Donahue and Ruth Westheimer <p> Before the answers to life 's questions fit in our pocket , you used to have to turn a dial . If you were lucky , Phil Donahue would be on , ready to guide you toward enlightenment . In a stroke of deluxe good fortune , Dr. Ruth Westheimer might have stopped by to be the enlightenment . He was the search engine . She was a trusted result . <p> Donahue hailed from Cleveland . The windshield glasses , increasingly snowy thatch of hair , marble eyes , occasional pair of suspenders and obvious geniality said " card catalog , " " manager of the ' 79 Reds , " " Stage Manager in a Chevy Motors production of ' Our Town . ' " Dr. Ruth was Donahue 's antonym , a step stool to his straight ladder . She kept her hair in a butterscotch helmet , fancied a uniform of jacket-blouse-skirt and came to our aid , via Germany , with a voice of crinkled tissue paper . Not even eight years separated them , yet so boyish was he and so seasoned was she that he read as her grandson . ( She maybe reached his armpit . ) Together and apart , they were public servants , American utilities . <p> Donahue was a journalist . His forum was the talk show , but some new strain in which the main attraction bypassed celebrities . People -- every kind of them -- lined up to witness other people being human , to experience Donahue 's radical conduit of edification , identification , curiosity , shock , wonder , outrage , surprise and dispute , all visible in the show 's televisual jackpot : cutaways to us , reacting , taking it all in , nodding , gasping . When a celebrity made it to the " Donahue " stage -- Bill Clinton , say , La Toya Jackson , the Judds -- they were expected to be human , too , to be accountable for their own humanity . From 1967 to 1996 , for more than 6,000 episodes , he permitted us to be accountable to ourselves . <p> Donahue amid his audience , whom he let ask most of the questions . Bettmann/Getty Images <p> What Donahue knew was that we -- women especially -- were eager , desperate , to be understood , to learn and learn and learn . We call his job " host " when , really , the way he did it , running that microphone throughout the audience , racing up , down , around , sticking it here then here then over here , was closer to " switchboard operator . " It was " hot dog vendor at Madison Square Garden . " The man got his steps in . He let us do more of the questioning than he did -- he would just edit , interpret , clarify . Egalitarianism ruled . Articulation , too . And anybody who needed the mic usually got it . <p> The show was about both what was on our mind and what had never once crossed it . Atheism . Naziism . Colorism . Childbirth . Prison . Rapists . AIDS . Chippendales , Chernobyl , Cher . Name a fetish , Phil Donahue tried to get to its bottom , sometimes by trying it himself . ( Let us never forget the episode when he made his entrance in a long skirt , blouse and pussy bow for one of the show 's many cross-dressing studies . ) Now 's the time to add that " Donahue " was a morning talk show . In Philadelphia , he arrived every weekday at 9 a.m. , which meant that , in the summers , I could learn about compulsive shopping or shifting gender roles from the same kitchen TV set as my grandmother . <p> Sex and sexuality were the show 's prime subjects . There was so much that needed confessing , correction , corroboration , an ear lent . For that , Donahue needed an expert . Many times , the expert was Dr. Ruth , a godsend who did n't land in this country until she was in her late 20s and did n't land on television until she was in her 50s . Ruth Westheimer arrived to us from Germany , where she started as Karola Ruth Siegel and strapped in as her life corkscrewed , as it mocked fiction . Her family most likely perished in the Auschwitz death camps after she was whisked to the safety of a Swiss children 's home , where she was expected to clean . The twists include sniper training for one of the military outfits that would become the Israel Defense Forces , maiming by cannonball on her 20th birthday , doing research at a Planned Parenthood in Harlem , single motherhood and three husbands . She earned her doctorate from Columbia University , in education , and spent her postdoc researching human sexuality . And because her timing was perfect , she emerged at the dawn of the 1980s , an affable vector of an era 's craze for gnomic sages ( Zelda Rubinstein , Linda Hunt , Yoda ) , masterpiece branding and the nasty . <p> Hers was the age of Mapplethorpe and Madonna , of Prince , Skinemax and 2 Live Crew . On her radio and television shows , in a raft of books and a Playgirl column and through her promiscuous approach to talk-show appearances , she aimed to purge sex of shame , to promote sexual literacy . Her feline accent and jolly innuendo pitched , among other stuff , the Honda Prelude , Pepsi , Sling TV and Herbal Essences . ( " Hey ! " she offers to a young elevator passenger . " This is where we get off . " ) The instructions for Dr. Ruth 's Game of Good Sex says it can be played by up to four couples ; the board is vulval and includes stops at " Yeast Infection , " " Chauvinism " and " Goose Him . " <p> Westheimer in 1986 . She was determined to talk about sex to mass audiences using the proper terminology , avoiding euphemisms and encouraging Americans to seek pleasure . Thomas Hoepker/Magnum Photos <p> On " Donahue , " she is direct , explicit , dispelling , humorous , clear , common-sensical , serious , vivid . A professional therapist . It was Donahue who handled the comedy . On one visit in 1987 , a caller needs advice about a husband who cheats because he wants to have sex more often than she does . Dr. Ruth tells Donahue that if the caller wants to keep the marriage , and her husband wants to do it all the time , " then what she should do is to masturbate him . And it 's all right for him to masturbate himself also a few times . " The audience is hear-a-pin-drop rapt or maybe just squirmy . So Donahue reaches into his parochial-school-student war chest and pulls out the joke about the teacher who tells third-grade boys , " Do n't play with yourself , or you 'll go blind . " And Donahue raises his hand like a kid at the back of the classroom and asks , " Can I do it till I need glasses ? " Westheimer giggles , maybe noticing the large pair on Donahue 's face . This was that day 's cold open . <p> They were children of salesmen , these two ; his father was in the furniture business , hers sold what people in the garment industry call notions . They inherited a salesman 's facility for people and packaging . When a " Donahue " audience member asks Westheimer whether her own husband believes she practices what she preaches , she says this is why she never brings him anywhere . " He would tell you and Phil : ' Do not listen to her . It 's all talk , ' " which cracks the audience up . <p> But consider what she talked about -- and consider how she said it . My favorite Dr. Ruth word was " pleasure . " From a German mouth , the word conveys what it lacks with an American tongue : sensual unfurling . She vowed to speak about sex to mass audiences using the proper terminology . Damn the euphemisms . People waited as long as a year and a half for tickets to " Donahue " so they could damn them , too . But of everything Westheimer pitched , of all the terms she precisely used , pleasure was her most cogent product , a gift she believed we could give to others , a gift she swore we owed ourselves . <p> I miss the talk show that Donahue reinvented . I miss the way Dr. Ruth talked about sex . It 's fitting somehow that this **25;677;TOOLONG Irish Catholic man would , on occasion , join forces with a carnal , lucky-to-be-alive Jew to urge the exploration of our bodies while demonstrating respect , civility , reciprocation . They believed in us , that we were all interesting , that we could be trustworthy panelists in the discourse of being alive . Trauma , triviality , tubal ligation : Let 's talk about it ! Fear does n't seem to have occurred to them . Or if it did , it was never a deterrent . Boldly they went . -- And with her encouragement , boldly we came . <p> Wesley Morris is a critic at large for The New York Times and a staff writer for the magazine . <h> James Earl Jones <p> James Earl Jones in 1969 , during the filming of ' ' The Great White Hope . ' ' Lawrence Schiller <p> After refusing to talk for most of his childhood , he discovered power in performance . By Reginald Dwayne Betts <p> b. 1931 <p> James Earl Jones <p> When James Earl Jones was a small child , he stopped talking . He was born in Arkabutla , Miss. , and learned to love its gullies and rises and deep ravines and the loam enriched by the Mississippi River and the way it felt against his bare feet.His parents had left him to his maternal grandparents , and when he was 5 or 6 they moved to Dublin , Mich. , reluctantly taking the boy with them . He was devastated . The move opened opportunities for the family , but was a profound rupture for the young Jones . " The move from Mississippi to Michigan was supposed to be a glorious event , " he remembered in his 1993 memoir , " Voices and Silences . " " For me it was a heartbreak . " <p> Jones would later characterize himself as mute . It 's not that he could n't speak , but when he did it was with a terrible stutter that he developed after moving to Michigan . Before strangers , he would n't muster his words . " I talked to my family in basic terms , " he wrote . His grandmother allowed him to skip church , the only place that would force him to struggle through words during those years . <p> Though he refused to talk with other people , his time in Mississippi taught him to listen . " Out in the country , with few books or strangers , and no such thing as television , " he wrote , " we depended on the stories we knew . " His grandmother told bedtime stories about " women cursed to wear the heads of mules and men who had bellies full of writhing snakes . " His family spoke of his great-grandparents , Wyatt Connolly and Sharlett Jeeter , and the 300 acres of Mississippi land they cultivated . <p> When Jones was in high school , a poet and former college professor named Donald Crouch persuaded him to break his silence . After the teacher introduced him to the poems of Henry Wadsworth Longfellow , Jones wrote an ode to grapefruit patterned after Longfellow 's " Song of Hiawatha . " In what might have been a bid to make the boy speak , Crouch said the poem was so good that it must have been plagiarized -- a notion Jones could only dispel by reading it aloud . It turns out that poetry , like song , can help stutterers overcome disfluency , and in performance Jones found himself able to speak . Jones went on to participate in school competitions and recitals , sometimes reading lines of Edgar Allan Poe 's verse . As he discovered his voice , he gravitated toward anything that required him to use it : public speaking , debate , oratory contests . <p> After graduating from high school , he began his studies at the University of Michigan as a pre-med student . But medicine was simply a profession any first-generation college student might choose in 1949 , not the vehicle for Jones 's self-expression . After struggling with chemistry and physics , he decided to become an English major because it was the closest thing to studying drama . Though he spent four years in college , he left without a degree and served in the military before eventually returning to school to study drama in New York City at the American Theater Wing , supporting himself through odd jobs . ( He returned to college and got his degree in 1955 . ) <p> To discover the lower frequencies of the Mississippi in his timbre , he spent hours learning to strip away his Southern accent . Years spent in silence gave Jones an ear not just for what people conveyed with words but also for all the accumulated meaning of voice , cadence and articulation . He believed that understanding those details was the key to knowing a character . <p> One of his earliest stage roles was as Othello in a summer production of Shakespeare 's play in Michigan -- a performance that foreshadowed his successful run in the early 1960s as a fixture of The New York Shakespeare Festival ( now Shakespeare in the Park ) . After the director Stanley Kubrick saw him in a production of " The Merchant of Venice , " Jones earned his first film role in Kubrick 's " Doctor Strangelove . " <p> As his stature grew , Jones would come to embody a strange paradox : He was synonymous with a voice that he would n't allow himself to hear . The risk ? If he listened to himself , he might get caught up in his emotions and succumb to that old stutter . Instead he learned to listen for and discover the voices of his characters . In Howard Sackler 's 1968 play " The Great White Hope , " Jones portrayed a lightly fictionalized version of Jack Johnson , the champion boxer whose defeat of several white competitors and public relationships with white women made him a target for racial harassment . Roles like that allowed Jones to tell the multitudinous stories of Black men . <p> His voice , arguably the most memorable in cinema , was as flexible as it was indelible , the tool he used to transform himself from a poet into an actor . Despite that , he remained a chameleon , embodying the authority of fatherhood in so many guises : the resplendent King Jaffe Joffer in " Coming to America " ; the heartbroken , embittered and abusive Troy Maxson in August Wilson 's " Fences " ; the stern and upright Mufasa in " The Lion King " ; and the foreboding Darth Vader in the " Star Wars " franchise . <p> Jones never imagined himself as representing that kind of authority , despite the unmistakable baritone that sounded as if it came from the hollowest part of a drum . For him , that was always the point . His discovery of language allowed him to understand in a different way the vital need humans have for hearing and telling stories . <p> Reginald Dwayne Betts a contributing writer for the magazine and the founding chief executive of Freedom Reads . <h> Paul Auster <p> Unexpected deaths led Paul Auster to believe that " the world was capricious and unstable , that the future can be stolen from us at any moment . " Spencer Ostrander <p> His life , and work , were marked by death . By Matthew Shaer <p> b. 1947 <p> Paul Auster <p> In late July 1961 , 14-year-old Paul Auster was hiking with a group of boys from his sleepaway camp when a storm stole over the horizon . Lightning " danced around us like spears , " Auster later recalled , turning " everything a bright ghostly white " and striking a camper named Ralph . Trapped in a meadow , far from the safety of camp , Auster stood watch over Ralph 's blue and cooling body , using his finger to prevent the boy from swallowing his own tongue . " In spite of the mounting evidence , " Auster said , " it never occurred to me that he was n't going to come around . " <p> Death had marked Auster , and not for the final time . He had already mourned the sudden loss of one grandmother ( heart attack ) and would soon mourn the slow demise of the other to A.L.S. , a disease , Auster observed , that seemed to leave its victims with " no hope , no remedy , nothing in front of you but a prolonged march towards disintegration . ... " Later there were the deaths of his mother and father ; a horrific car crash in which the lives of his second wife , Siri Hustvedt , and their daughter , Sophie , were somehow spared ( " We should be dead , " Auster later said ) ; and finally the passing of his 10-month-old granddaughter Ruby , and his son , Daniel , who overdosed in 2022 . By then , Auster had long since decided that " the world was capricious and unstable , that the future can be stolen from us at any moment , that the sky is full of lightning bolts that can crash down and kill the young as well as the old , and always , always , the lightning strikes when we are least expecting it . " <p> Sadness permeated Auster 's work like storm water : In his novels and memoirs -- and in a range of collected and uncollected essays -- rarely is anyone left dry . " Paul was extremely interested in the idea of the hero who is cast into a new world by grief , " Hustvedt says . " He used that device a lot : the stripped person . The person who has lost their most profound connections to the world . And I 'd argue that it goes all the way back to ' The New York Trilogy . ' " <p> Published in installments in the mid-1980s by a small California press , and in its entirety in 1987 by the British house Faber and Faber , the " Trilogy " is the series that made Auster famous -- the three works he is still best known for today . Rereading it , you encounter all the themes that he would return to over the course of his career : the role of chance and dumb luck in human existence ; the dark secrets we keep from those around us ; the persistent suspicion that somewhere else , somewhere out of view , a different version of ourselves is living a life that both resembles and diverges from ours ; and over it all , the pall of tragedy . Introducing Quinn , the character at the center of the first book , " City of Glass , " Auster writes that " he had once been married , had once been a father , and that both his wife and son were now dead . " Grief drives Quinn to do the things he does , even if he 's not always aware of it ; and grief nudges Quinn ( and eventually a metafictional version of Auster himself ) toward epiphany , resolution , truth . <p> In April 2022 , at age 75 , now laureled and honored many times over and still producing fiction at a sturdy clip , Auster published a story titled " Worms " in Harper 's Magazine . The protagonist is Sy Baumgartner , an academic still grieving for his wife , Anna . " He gave me the pages to read , and said , ' Hey , if I get a novel out of this , would you be interested in publishing it ? ' " remembers Morgan Entrekin , the publisher and C.E.O . of Grove . <p> Neither the author nor publisher was aware it would be Auster 's last book . As he was preparing a draft of what would become " Baumgartner " for Grove , Auster began to suffer from peculiar but persistent fevers . Soon after , he was diagnosed with lung cancer . " I 'm certain Paul did n't know he was ill when he started the book , " Hustvedt says , " but he definitely knew he was ill when he was finishing it . And I 've had this uncanny feeling ever since he died that what he was really doing was writing my grief . " <p> In the book 's most indelible scene , Baumgartner hears the phone ring in his wife 's study , which he has kept preserved exactly as it was when she was still alive . Anna is on the line . She is in the " Great Nowhere , " she reports , " a black space in which nothing is visible , a soundless vacuum of nullity , the oblivion of the void . " She is not in pain , she tells her husband . She is not hungry . She ca n't feel anything at all . You sense she has been returned whence she came . Still , Auster writes , " she suspects that he is the one who is sustaining her through this incomprehensible afterlife , this paradoxical state of conscious nonexistence , which must and will come to an end at some point , she feels , but as long as he is alive and still able to think about her , her consciousness will continue to be awakened and reawakened by his thoughts . " If he does n't let her go , in other words , Anna wo n't truly be gone . She will stay with him . <p> " Baumgartner " was released in November 2023 . In April , Auster entered hospice care and died shortly after at his home in Brooklyn , in his library , his favorite room in the house . A circle was closed . As Auster wrote a decade earlier , in a memoir titled " Winter Journal , " in which he returned to the image of young Ralph lying lightning-struck in a field , " You think it will never happen to you , that it can not happen to you , that you are the only person in the world to whom none of these things will ever happen . " And then they do . <p> Matthew Shaer is a contributing writer for the magazine and a founder of the podcast studio Campside Media . <h> Michaela DePrince <p> Michaela DePrince in 2014 . Philippe Vogelenzang/Trunk Archive <p> As a professional ballerina , she inhabited the world of fairy tales . It 's tempting to read her real life as one . By Niela Orr <p> b. 1995 <p> Michaela DePrince <p> In 1999 , when Michaela DePrince was just 4 years old , she saw an image that would change her life : a ballerina in a " glittering pink skirt , " standing en pointe on the cover of a magazine . Born Mabinty Bangura , she was living in the Safe Haven orphanage in Sierra Leone , having been sold there by an uncle after the deaths of both of her parents during the country 's civil war . <p> At the orphanage , Mabinty stood out . She spoke five languages , having picked them up at the marketplace and with her father , and had an indefatigable curiosity ; her neck , clavicle and arms were speckled with tiny light-colored patches , a result of vitiligo . The orphanage ranked the children -- 24 girls and three boys -- based on which were thought to be the most adoptable ; because of her skin condition , Mabinty was ranked last . Her time in the orphanage was very hard : She suffered physical abuse by the " aunties " who were in charge and survived an attack by rebel soldiers who murdered her favorite teacher . To make life bearable , she told stories , sang , created dancing games and became best friends with the girl ranked No. 26 . She used her imagination as a shield against the place 's cruelties , playing pretend in order to ward off the aunties . " I am a witch , " she told one of them . " I will place a spell on you if you harm me . " <p> Months into her time at the orphanage , Mabinty was walking in a windstorm when the cover of the magazine blew into her face . " Someday I will dance on my toes like this lady , " she thought . " I will be happy too ! " Shortly after , she and her best friend were adopted by Elaine and Charles DePrince , who took them home to Cherry Hill , N.J. At the time , the couple were the parents of three boys and had recently lost two others because H.I.V.-infected blood was used in the treatment of their hemophilia . The girls were renamed Michaela and Mia . <p> In her new home , DePrince repeatedly watched a recording of George Balanchine 's " The Nutcracker . " Just before turning 5 , she asked her mother to enroll her in classes at the Rock School for Dance Education . With the determination of someone much older , DePrince committed to ballet -- and with it the grueling training , cutthroat competitiveness and painful injuries . She was thrilled to be dancing but was also confused and dismayed by the racism of the classical-dance community , including the mother of a white classmate who said that Black girls should stick to modern or jazz . She encountered the absurd necessity of dyeing " nude " accessories from peach to dark brown to match her skin tone . In the documentary " First Position , " which chronicles a handful of young dancers ' bids to win the prestigious 2010 Youth America Grand Prix ballet competition , DePrince described the prejudice : " There 's a lot of stereotypes saying that if you 're a Black dancer , you have terrible feet , you do n't have extension , you 're too muscular , you 're not graceful enough . " She would n't be moved , though . " I want to be known as a delicate , Black dancer who does classical ballet , " she said . <p> " I would never allow the audience to see how I was feeling , " DePrince wrote in a memoir . Tim Verhallen/Trunk Archive <p> In her memoir " Taking Flight , " written with her mother , DePrince describes the formative dance technique of " spotting , " or " continuously keeping an eye on a distant point as you turn . " Despite the distractions of youth , there was always that distant point : professional success . A performance at the Grand Prix won her a scholarship to the Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis School at American Ballet Theater in New York . She graduated in 2012 to the Dance Theater of Harlem , where she became the company 's youngest principal dancer . In 2013 , at 18 , she moved to the Netherlands and danced with the Dutch National Ballet for seven years . She reached new audiences after being featured in Beyonc ? ' s " Lemonade " film in 2016 . In 2021 , she joined the Boston Ballet as a second soloist and remained there for the next three years . Her dreams came to pass . <p> Once , when DePrince was about 5 , her mother told the anxious Michaela that her vitiligo spots " looked like a sprinkling of pixie dust or glitter . " It 's the job of a ballet dancer to inhabit fairy tales and their archetypes : the witches , ing ? nues and wretches ; the princesses who outwit villains and overcome grueling obstacles . But fairy tales have troubling origins ; as in the real world , there are few safe havens . ( DePrince died at age 29 from undisclosed causes . ) <p> Throughout her career DePrince embraced the mythic quality of her biography , crafting a story of uplift and transcendence . In her book and many public appearances , DePrince had the poise of someone anointed with magic dust . She was persistently put together , unassailably optimistic . " I would never allow the audience to see how I was feeling , " she wrote of her stoicism . " Even at 13 , I believed that the audience should think that the hardest combination of steps was effortless , and a ballerina 's personal trials should n't show on her face . " <p> Niela Orr is a story editor for the magazine . She wrote about the actor Angus Cloud from ' ' Euphoria ' ' in last year 's The Lives They Lived issue . <h> Bob Newhart <p> Bob Newhart on " The Bob Newhart Show . " CBS , via Getty Images <p> For him , comedy became a form of therapy . By Susan Dominus <p> b. 1929 <p> Bob Newhart <p> People who met Bob Newhart were n't always sure why he looked so familiar . Women on elevators often told him that he reminded them of their ex-husbands ; men sometimes asked him if they served together in the war . Newhart just had that kind of face , an average white Midwestern sort of face , a face that always looked a little disappointed in itself . <p> For a long time , Newhart felt that way . His childhood home was as impersonal as a boardinghouse , he once said in an interview . More often than not , his father spent his evenings at a neighborhood bar near their house in Chicago ; even when he was around , he never said much at meals . ( " Maybe now Dad will notice me , " Newhart wrote in his memoir , " I Should n't Even Be Doing This ! " describing his thoughts as he walked up to collect one of the three Grammys he received in 1961 . ) Growing up , Newhart filled a void in himself , he once told a literary magazine , by peopling his imaginary world with characters who would entertain him . " I think that 's true of all comedians , " he said . <p> Of the family 's four children , Newhart was the weakest student . Law school did n't work out ; he tired of accounting . At 29 , when his friends were already married , having children and settling into careers , Newhart was single and living unhappily at home , too broke to pay rent . Somehow he summoned the self-confidence to try something new . He was funny , people always told him . Maybe he could make a living off that . <p> Newhart used to kill time at work by calling a friend of his in character , pretending to be an average Joe trying to maintain calm in the face of some ludicrous predicament -- a pilot , for example , who 'd fallen out of his plane . Someone encouraged him to tape those routines , and an executive at Warner Brothers ended up with the recordings . The executive suggested that Newhart record a live performance for an album . <p> " The Button-Down Mind of Bob Newhart , " released in 1960 , made him an overnight star . It was the best-selling album on the Billboard charts for 14 straight weeks . " You knew that album by heart , " says the legendary sitcom producer Chuck Lorre , whose father bought it for him when he was 10 . Richard Pryor told Newhart that he stole " The Button-Down Mind " from the record store as a kid . Newhart joked that he was owed some royalties , and Pryor forked over a quarter . <p> While brash comics like Lenny Bruce and Don Rickles were blasting their way into the new decade , Newhart satirized the strait-laced culture of 1960 using its own conventions , which sometimes meant leaving a lot unsaid . Having held down a number of part-time jobs , Newhart often turned his humor on the workplace , exposing its obligatory and artificial politeness , the unnatural self-control it often demanded in the face of absurdity or incompetence . <p> He applied that sensibility to routines that invited the audience to eavesdrop on one-sided conversations , bringing a fresh kind of sketch comedy to stand-up . In one , a modern-day adman urges his client , Abe Lincoln , not to cut " four score and seven years ago " from his speech : " Abe , " he says , irritated , " we test-marketed that , and they loved it . " In another , an American submarine commander tells his crew that the press made too much of the boat 's accidental attack on Miami Beach , especially " since it was the off season down there . " <p> Even after the money started rolling in , Newhart , like so many of his personas , remained prudent and reasonable : He went on to marry and have four children , and he left the itinerant life of stand-up comedy for a more stable career in TV . In 1972 , Newhart debuted " The Bob Newhart Show , " in which he played the first psychologist on a sitcom , a role perfectly suited to his gift for showing restraint in the face of folly . When a ventriloquist who has gone to Newhart for help says his dummy would like a few minutes to talk to the doctor alone , Newhart , clearly suppressing his response , pauses , still and straight-faced , for four loaded seconds before offering a hesitant nod -- an exercise in understatement that characterizes so much of his comedy . <p> Newhart never professed to have much faith in psychology or its precepts . Even the most casual viewer of the show , he wrote in his memoir , knew that his patients were " no better off " after a visit to his character 's office . And yet at some point , Newhart saw a psychologist himself , according to his son Tim . Tim and his siblings sometimes wondered what their father talked about in therapy . They knew he loved them , but they could see how hard it was for him to express his feelings . At home , off script , he was remarkably silent and could seem distant . <p> Eventually , Newhart 's psychologist decided to retire , and he suggested that Newhart join some of his other famous patients for group sessions that they could run mostly by themselves . The plan fell apart quickly , once Newhart got wind of who the other celebrities were . " They 're all crazy ! " he told his family . <p> In his 80s , Newhart accepted his final recurring role , appearing on Lorre 's " The Big Bang Theory " as a version of his perennial character : the last sane man in a world gone mad . Newhart made a career of highlighting other people 's foibles by playing the straight man , but he was also sending up his own extreme reserve , perhaps the lingering relic of a disconnected childhood . <p> At the end of his life , when his health was failing , he continued to rely on humor during dark moments , said his daughter Jennifer . " You 're either going to laugh or cry , " she said . " I think most of us would rather laugh . " <p> Susan Dominus is a staff writer for the magazine . She has written about treatment for menopause symptoms , the efficacy of therapy and declining male enrollment at colleges . <h> Eleanor Coppola <p> Eleanor Coppola on the set of " Apocalypse Now " around 1976 . James Keane , via Zoetrope <p> Her filmmaking ambitions were thwarted by domestic life . Her daughter 's would not be . By Irina Aleksander <p> b. 1936 <p> Eleanor Coppola <p> Eleanor Coppola met Francis Ford Coppola when she was 26 . He was directing his first feature , a 1963 horror film titled " Dementia 13 , " and Eleanor was his assistant art director . Months later , she found out she was pregnant . They married the following weekend in Las Vegas . She imagined that they would continue to work together . Instead , she found herself supporting her husband 's career . " My dad was this traditional Italian who had an idea of a wife 's role , " Eleanor 's daughter , Sofia , told me . <p> Eleanor knew how people saw her because they often told her . " Too small for such a big husband , " a crew member on " Apocalypse Now " told Eleanor , who weighed 99 pounds . Diane Keaton told Eleanor that she was her model for Kay , the quiet WASP who married into the Corleone family in " The Godfather . " And yet it was Eleanor who so sharply recorded her husband in " Hearts of Darkness , " a 1991 documentary about the making of " Apocalypse Now . " Francis 's epic struggle to get his film made , driving himself to the edge of bankruptcy and his own ego , appears in stark contrast to Eleanor 's calm , steady narration . " He gathers up his Oscars and throws them out the window , " she wrote in " Notes , " a 1979 collection of diary entries that also served as the film 's voice-over . " The children pick up the pieces . " <p> In a second memoir , " Notes on a Life , " Eleanor described her " internal war " between being an artist and a wife and mother . While Francis made his films , Eleanor wrote , " I attend to little tasks . " She shopped for children 's shoes , mops , frying pans , kitchen towels , firmer pillows , fresh flowers , groceries , wastebaskets , trash bags , laundry detergent , doormats , shampoo , duplicate keys . She tended to faucets , fridges , sinks , gardens , heaters , landscapers and sick children in hotel rooms where the windows never opened . Often she found herself descending into a depression . She went to psychologists and asked what was wrong with her . Not one , she wrote , diagnosed her as a creative person . <p> In 1975 , Eleanor paid Sofia and her brother , Roman , to watch Sofia 's birth video in Sofia 's bedroom , part of an art exhibit she staged inside the family 's 22-room Victorian home in San Francisco . Back then , when a man won an Oscar , his wife received a miniature version to wear as a necklace charm . In another room , Eleanor removed her husband 's Oscars from a lighted display case and replaced them with her tiny ones , turning an indignity into art . Francis did n't get it . " He thought I was making fun of him , " she wrote . <p> Sofia 's 27th birthday : Eleanor watched Francis mentor Sofia as she prepared to shoot " The Virgin Suicides , " her directorial debut , and felt a " hot , aching jealousy . " Eleanor had graduated from the University of California , Los Angeles , with an art degree . Her own father , a political cartoonist for The Los Angeles Examiner , died when she was 10 . She imagined how her life might have unfolded had he been around to mentor her . Sofia 's life was going to be so different . On a trip to Tokyo in 1991 , Eleanor observed Sofia , then 19 , inspect a portable dishwasher and buy a wide-angle camera instead . <p> Eleanor did n't share her frustrations with Sofia until her daughter was older . It 's not as if she guilt-tripped her children . The opposite : She was so present , always trying to keep their lives as normal as possible . As Francis worked on location and the family followed , Eleanor moved Sofia 's bedroom furniture to Tulsa , Okla. , hid Easter eggs in Manila , dragged an entire Santa Claus suit to Tokyo . " We would have been messed up if it were n't for my mom , " Sofia told me . <p> Eleanor worried about whether she had made an impact on her children . But she did , Sofia said . She made a huge impact . There is Eleanor in Sofia 's films , all of them such carefully constructed worlds , with women gazing out from inside them . Sofia learned from her mother that a film director does n't have to yell ; that she can be both quiet and strong . One of Sofia 's favorite stories was about how her mother once found herself copying Agnes Martin drawings -- just making steady lines over and over and not knowing why . But then she arrived on the set of " Apocalypse Now " and picked up a 16-millimeter film camera , and it turned out she had trained herself to have a steady hand . <p> The family 's home in Napa had a giant valley oak tree in its front yard . The children swung from its branches , had birthday parties beneath it . In the 1980s , an enormous limb snapped off and grazed the room of Eleanor 's elder son , Gio . Eleanor was looking at that very tree a few years later when she got the call that Gio , 22 , had been killed in a boating accident . Eleanor was 50 . She had expected the next decade to be a time of freedom . " A time to pick up the threads of my creative life left behind at age 26 , " she wrote , adding , " I never expected a knockout blow . " <p> Years later , the whole damn tree would fall on the house , roots and all . When Eleanor became ill in her 70s with a rare cancer , Sofia remembers her aunt saying that Eleanor was like an oak tree -- a grounding force under which the family built their lives . Eleanor declined chemotherapy . She wanted to work instead , making two feature films in her 80s and writing about that choice in a third memoir , which Sofia hopes to have published . <p> Perhaps what Sofia wants to share most is how much Eleanor taught her about motherhood . That it 's about those simple things : taking your kid to the dentist , taking her to buy shoes . The older Sofia gets , the more she feels as if she understands her mother . Eleanor was there not just when Sofia accepted her first Oscar but also when she became a mother herself . And she remembers the advice Eleanor gave her . <p> " Get a great babysitter , " Eleanor said , " so you can do your work and not feel guilty . " <p> Irina Aleksander is a contributing writer for the magazine . She last wrote about Tom Sandoval , a reality star on Bravo 's ' ' Vanderpump Rules . ' ' <h> Frankie Beverly <p> How the R&amp;B hit " Before I Let Go " became an enduring anthem . By Nikole Hannah-Jones <p> b. 1946 <p> Frankie Beverly <p> The night Frankie Beverly died , his grandson , Brandon Beverly , left the hospital where he had been at his grandfather 's side and drove to the singer 's California home . On a normal night , Brandon would have put his phone on " do not disturb " before going to sleep . But exhausted , he forgot . <p> At 7 a.m. , the incessant vibrating of that phone woke him up . Just an hour after the announcement of Beverly 's death was posted to social media , thousands of fans across the world were pouring out their memories of being touched by Beverly 's music . <p> Even though in the coming days , some obituaries of the Philadelphia-born singer noted that he had never achieved mainstream success , Brandon knew that his grandfather never really sought it . Beverly made music for Black people , and Black people loved him for it . <p> If Black gatherings have an anthem , without question , it 's Beverly 's R&amp;B song " Before I Let Go , " which he wrote for his band , Maze . It does n't matter the region of the country , or the age of the crowd -- there is n't a reunion or barbecue or house party or graduation where the revelers at some point do n't line up , as if on command , to do the electric slide as they join Beverly in crooning : <p> " You know I think the sun rises and shines on you/You know there 's nothin ' , nothin ' , nothin ' I would not do/Whoa , no/Before I let you go ... /Ohhh ... /I would never , never , never , never , never , never , never/Never let you go , before I go . " <p> It 's hard to pinpoint exactly what it is about this song that makes it so special . It was n't a megahit when it came out in 1981 . But somehow in the years following its release , " Before I Let Go , " with its upbeat , almost giddy tempo and sing-out-loud-inspiring lyrics , became an enduring , cross-generational essential , the opening chords giving way to Beverly 's whoa whoa hoooaaa acting as a summons to the dance floor . As my colleague J Wortham said on the " Still Processing " podcast , when the song comes on , " We run toward it , literally and psychically . " <p> Today , the centrality of " Before I Let Go " in Black America is undeniable . " Is this song the biggest song in our culture ? " DJ Envy , a host of " The Breakfast Club , " one of the top hip-hop morning shows in the country , asked the day after Beverly 's death . " It might be No. 1 . " <p> Brandon , of course , knew the song -- he first remembers hearing his grandfather sing it onstage when he was 4 -- but he did n't fully realize its cultural power until he started going to parties at Howard University in the early 2010s . At the end of a party , the D.J . would play " Before I Let Go , " immediately shifting the mood among people who were born at least a decade after the song first came out . " Literally , every time I went to Howard , and it never did n't happen -- like , it always happened -- they would play ' Before I Let Go , ' " Brandon , who is 32 , told me . " I 'm like , y'all listen to my grandpa like that ? " <p> It was a testament to how even as musical styles changed , Beverly 's music tapped into something that remained integral to the Black experience : the heartache of having endured so much loss , but also optimism that better days will always come . As the lyrics of another of his hits go , " Joy and pain are like sunshine and rain . ... When the world is down on you , love 's somewhere around . ... Over and over you can be sure , there will be sorrow but you will endure . " <p> Beverly " did not care about selling 10 million records , " Brandon says . " He did n't care about , you know , Billboard this and Billboard that . He was like , ' Look , if I can make the most beautiful music that I can , and take my blood , sweat and tears and put it in my music for people to love , that 's all I care about . ' " <p> That dedication to expressing his ups and downs through music is what kept Beverly filling outdoor venues and concert halls across the country , where crowds tended to wear white , as Beverly had come to do over the years , while experiencing what always felt more like revival than entertainment . <p> Brandon told me that Beverly was a private person who did n't talk much about his musical process . But during the pandemic , when Brandon was spending time with his grandfather , he asked him about his best-known song . Beverly 's response surprised him . <p> " He was like , ' Man , I cried so much writing that song , ' " Brandon says with a chuckle . " I 'm like : ' This is everyone 's party song . How are you crying when you write something like this ? ' " <p> Go back and play it again , Beverly told him . Brandon , like so many of us , had been experiencing the song but not actually listening to it . " And then I realized , Oh , he was telling the girl , ' Before I let you go , I am sorry , ' " Brandon says . In a 2020 Essence magazine interview , Beverly explained that he wrote the song about a woman he still loved , while he was in a relationship with someone else . <p> The song that evokes sheer happiness at parties across the land is actually a song about heartbreak and love lost . The fact that so many of us failed to realize it gets to why Black Americans so cherished Frankie Beverly : He did not just make you feel a certain way . He made you want to feel a certain way . <p> Nikole Hannah-Jones is a staff writer for the magazine . In 2020 , she won a Pulitzer Prize for her essay about Black Americans and democracy . She is the creator of The 1619 Project . <h> Jerry West <p> One of the world 's greatest basketball players , he thought of himself as a loser . By Sam Dolnick <p> B. 1938 <p> Jerry West <p> It was the summer of 1969 , and Jerry West could n't sleep . <p> He was one of the greatest basketball players on Earth , an athlete whose grace and drive had transported him from the dirt roads of rural West Virginia to the glitz of Los Angeles arenas . <p> But he was a loser . There was no polite way to say it , and he would n't hear otherwise . He had just led his team , the Los Angeles Lakers , to the N.B.A. Finals for the sixth time . And for the sixth time , he and his team had lost . <p> And if that was n't cruel enough , he lost each championship to the same opponent : the smug , invincible , hated Boston Celtics . The 1969 series was tied 3-3 when they played the seventh game in Los Angeles . Despite West 's heroics , the Lakers lost , again , and there 's a photograph of him leaving the court in stunned defeat . He 's walking slowly , one foot in front of the other , shoulders squared . His hamstring bound in tape , his eyes sunken sockets -- a prisoner on his way back to his cell . In his memoir , " West by West , " he captioned the photo : " Where do I go ? " <p> West played so spectacularly well in that losing series , averaging nearly 38 points per game , that he was awarded the Finals M.V.P. -- the first and only time the losing star has ever been so recognized . As a prize , the league gave him a brand-new Dodge Charger . He fantasized about blowing it up with dynamite . <p> For any competitive athlete , losing would have been misery . But for Jerry West , a man who measured his childhood in beatings and his career in defeats , it was intolerable . " Every night I went to bed I thought about it , " he wrote of that summer . " Every night . Every goddamn night . " <p> Growing up poor in West Virginia , West was envious of his classmates ' Christmas presents and resentful of his watery soup dinners . His father , a bully and a tyrant , beat him mercilessly . His mother was a haunted , spectral figure . " I never learned what love was and am still not entirely sure I know today , " he wrote . When West was 13 , a revered older brother , David , was killed in the Korean War . Shooting hoops late into the night , West imagined that if he made one more basket , it might bring David back . <p> West led his high school team to the state championship and could have gone to college anywhere he wanted . He chose West Virginia University , securing his status as a hometown hero in a state that often felt left behind . <p> In the N.B.A. , West became a star who could shoot , pass , play defense and take a punch . He turned the Lakers into a force -- but a stoppable force . In 1970 , his team reached the Finals for a seventh time , only to lose -- again -- this time to the New York Knicks . They had another shot in the Finals two years later . West played badly , missing easy shots that he had made all his life . He turned to passing , and finally -- finally ! -- the Lakers prevailed . Jerry West was an N.B.A. champion . <p> He had a hard time enjoying it . " I played terrible basketball in the Finals , " he said years later . " I was playing so poorly that the team overcame me . " <p> Here 's how the world saw West : a Hall of Fame athlete with ferocious tenacity and grit who so reliably hit the big shots that he was nicknamed Mr. Clutch . <p> Here 's how West described himself : " A tormented , defiant figure who carries an angry , emotional chip on his shoulder and has a hole in his heart that nothing can ultimately fill . " <p> Karen , his wife of 46 years , said that when she and West were introduced , she thought he seemed like " the saddest man she had ever met . " <p> After his playing days , West became an executive with the Lakers , and he proved a genius in this role , too . He helped bring in Kareem Abdul-Jabbar and Magic Johnson , two of the greatest players ever , and won five championships in the 1980s -- including two against the still-hated Celtics . Later he signed Kobe Bryant and Shaquille O'Neal , and the Lakers won another championship in 2000 , West 's sixth as an executive . And yet happiness remained out of reach . <p> The morning after winning the title , a Lakers colleague found him brooding in his silent , dark office , alone but for a dimly lit lamp . " He was not in a good spot , " the colleague remembers . <p> Losing had made West miserable ; now winning did , too . He quit and left the team that summer as he struggled with another bout of depression . " It was not only providing me with zero joy but also affecting -- ruining , really -- every aspect of my life , " he wrote . The Lakers team he built would win two more championships without him . <p> If West , with his anguish and his brilliance , had lived in ancient Greece , he might have become a constellation . In midcentury America , he became a logo . In 1969 , the N.B.A. replaced its schlocky emblem with a new one featuring a silhouette of West midstride , basketball on his hip , shoulder angled for speed . As a bid for eternal life , it 's a good bet that more people would recognize the N.B.A. logo than they would Cassiopeia . <p> There he is , forever frozen in motion , sprinting away from his opponents as well as his demons , resplendent with the rarest of talents and kissed with the gift of immortality , but tortured , forever tortured , never able to savor the fruits of his singular life . <p> Sam Dolnick is a deputy managing editor for The Times . He wrote about Marianne Mantell , a pioneer of spoken-word audio , in last year 's The Lives They Lived issue . <h> Naomi Feil <p> Naomi Feil ( right ) in a documentary about caring for people with dementia . Validation Training Institute <p> She believed that people with dementia were desperate to connect . By Daniel Bergner <p> b. 1932 <p> Naomi Feil <p> " Every cell remembers where it was touched by the mother , " Naomi Feil says in a clip from a 2007 documentary , viewed millions of times , as she tends to a patient with severe dementia . The patient , an elderly woman , seems entirely cut off from the world , incapable of interaction . Feil sits across from her in a senior-living facility and holds both sides of her face , delicately , like an adoring parent with a young child . Eyes open only to slits , the woman taps one hand weakly on the arm of her chair in a repetitive motion . Feil , a social worker , believed that for patients with advanced dementia , a " desperate need for connection " is locked inside , a need often focused on the distant past . Feil sings a children 's hymn to the woman , who Feil knows was a longtime churchgoer . The woman smacks the chair arm faster , louder . What appeared to be meaningless motion now seems responsive . She clutches Feil 's jacket , pulling her close . Feil sings a second hymn , and the woman , her eyes opening more fully and meeting Feil 's , whispers a phrase with her : " whole world in his hands . " <p> Feil 's approach to people with Alzheimer 's and other forms of dementia , which she called the Validation Method , aims for this kind of breakthrough and bond , no matter how fleeting . The method builds on her sense that such people are frequently in a state of yearning , even if they appear to be totally shut down or randomly , aggressively acting out . The technique strives to validate and meet their longing -- and it takes a radical approach to problematic patient behaviors . <p> " Let 's say a disoriented old man sees me as a love object and wants to have sex with me , " Feil wrote in an unpublished autobiography . She did not shy away from engaging with the most uncomfortable aspects of caring for patients who are not only disoriented but also disinhibited . She described making sure that her own " judgments and fears " did n't dictate her reactions . " If he 's patting me on my breasts , I might say , ' Do you miss her very much ? ' using the ambiguous ' her ' that can mean mother , or wife , or lover , whoever . " Without encouraging the behavior , she suggested , a caregiver could turn errant sexual gestures into a meaningful connection . <p> In life 's final phases , the mind tends to reel backward , Feil maintained , and this should be honored , not fought . As she developed her approach , beginning in the late 1960s , she stood in opposition to a dominant practice , Reality Orientation , which puts a premium on reminding and correcting patients about current facts , from the day of the week to the truth that a beloved family member is no longer alive . Feil 's ideas have been a crucial force in an evolution away from Reality Orientation in dementia care . <p> The Validation Method 's stress on acute empathy , its sensitivity to the emotional desperation of patients , may be rooted in Feil 's extreme vulnerability as a child . In 1937 , as a Jewish 4-year-old in Nazi Germany , she was hidden by nuns until her mother managed to escape with Feil and her younger sister to the United States , where they joined Feil 's father , who had already fled . <p> Her father , a psychologist , ran a Jewish home for the elderly in Cleveland . The family lived there , and growing up , Feil , who had no close friends at school , treasured her relationships with the residents . In her autobiography , she recalled sneaking off the grounds repeatedly at night and venturing to a drugstore and soda fountain with her " best friend , " a patient with " velvety eyes " whose teeth were black or missing . <p> In her early 30s , Feil returned to work at the home . There , the Validation Method started to take shape . In 1982 , she founded the Validation Training Institute , and by the 2000s , she was leading at least 80 workshops a year , from China and Japan to the United States and almost every country in Europe . Her eldest child , Vicki de Klerk-Rubin , who now runs the institute , told me about her mother 's fierce drive -- but also , toward the end of her life , her cognitive decline and descent into dark suspicions . <p> De Klerk-Rubin and two of her siblings recounted that as Feil became less competent , and as de Klerk-Rubin shared in leading workshops or led them solo , Feil began accusing her daughter of stealing her life 's work . The allegation inflicted a painful wound . <p> But de Klerk-Rubin reminded herself that her mother might well be in the grip of the distant past . She might be overtaken by the suspiciousness sewn into her psyche as she hid from the Nazis and then settled in an alien land . Feil had long insisted on being paid for workshops in cash . She kept $20,000 hidden in her house . It was as if her mother always felt , de Klerk-Rubin said , that " you never know when the Nazis are going to come , and you ca n't get to the bank -- you should have a stash . " <p> This , the daughter told herself , was Feil 's reality . It made her mother 's accusations easier to bear . It made her mother 's love easier to feel . <p> Daniel Bergner is a contributing writer for the magazine who previously wrote about alternate ways of treating psychotic disorders . He is the author of " The Mind and the Moon : My Brother 's Story , the Science of Our Brains and the Search for Our Psyches . " <h> Gena Rowlands <p> Gena Rowlands in 1961 . Julian Wasser/TV Guide , via Everett Collection <p> She worried that marriage would ruin her acting career , but the opposite happened . By Ismail Muhammad <p> b. 1930 <p> Gena Rowlands <p> On the set of the 1968 film " Faces , " Gena Rowlands was sure she saw the end of her marriage looming . The director -- John Cassavetes , a pioneer of American independent cinema -- was her husband , and in her memory , he hated what she was doing . " The first day you realize your husband does n't love you anymore , " she remembered . " The second day that he never loved you , the third that he hates you ... and after that it gets bad . " <p> Rowlands 's relationship with her husband turned out to be altogether sturdier and richer than she imagined . By the time Cassavetes died in 1989 , they had made 10 films together , including " A Woman Under the Influence " ( 1974 ) and " Gloria " ( 1980 ) , each of which earned Rowlands an Oscar nomination for best actress . In Cassavetes , Rowlands found a partner who shared her vision of film as a way to convey the delirious turbulence of experience . And in Rowlands , Cassavetes found an actor who imbued his movies with their instinctive dynamism . <p> The daughter of a politician father and a stay-at-home mother ( who would herself go on to act ) , Rowlands suffered from various chronic illnesses in childhood . " I was n't much of a handful , " she recalled to NPR 's Terry Gross in 2016 . " I was lying around and looking pale and reading books and things . " Reading taught her that one life could encompass many lives , that she did n't have to be one person . Acting , to her , was like reading : an entry point into the multiplicity of fiction and the explorations it made possible . <p> She did not intend to marry -- marriage was , to her , a prelude to a woman 's artistic death . But as she was finishing her studies at the American Academy of Dramatic Arts , she met Cassavetes . He had recently graduated from the academy but returned there to see a play in which she happened to be performing . It was love at first sight , or the closest thing to it . They went for coffee at the Russian Tea Room and wed four months later . <p> A trim , conventionally beautiful blonde at a time when roles for women had severely narrowed , Rowlands might have been doomed to portray doting wives and alluring love interests in harebrained television shows and cinematic romps . She described one such film , " The High Cost of Loving , " in which she played a pregnant housewife , as a middling " old-fashioned man-woman-style comedy . " But even there her elastic face communicated a sardonic mischievousness that undercut its otherwise bland story of middle-class anxiety . <p> Roles like that one , along with mortgages on the family home , helped finance the independent projects she pursued with Cassavetes . Their marriage was both a romantic whirlwind and a union of two aesthetically like-minded individuals . " It was more satisfying to do the kind of pictures that we did that tried to examine life , tried to figure out a little , tiny bit of it , perhaps , " she said . " Love , the loss of love , the beginning of love , what you give up for what . " <p> Rowlands examined these questions by playing women who struggled -- or refused -- to be traditionally womanly or maternal . Cassavetes 's exploration of female psychology existed alongside her own , one artist 's thought deepening the other 's . " His own personal feeling was that he did n't know how any woman could not be crazy in this society , " Rowlands recounted . She said that the depth of her husband 's empathy for women 's psychological suffering allowed her to thrive as an actor . Cassavetes 's actor-centered approach gave her the space she needed to take stock of just how restrictive American womanhood could be and the dark places to which it could lead you . <p> In " A Woman Under the Influence , " Rowlands plays Mabel , the wife of a construction worker ( Peter Falk ) , whose life is defined by an anxious commitment to her husband and children . She is by turns hilarious , endearing and unhinged , her entire body conveying a distress that can be painful to watch . In a scene in which Mabel waits for her children to be dropped off after school , Rowlands paces back and forth , her arms swinging with a corked intensity as she approaches passers-by to ask for the time . You ca n't blame the extras for avoiding her gaze . Once she sees her children 's bus approaching , she leaps up and down , raises her arms in victory , suddenly childlike . With her convulsive movement and tendency to speak in something approaching tongues , Mabel is as frightening as Linda Blair 's Regan in " The Exorcist . " The way Rowlands plays her , though , we recognize her malady as entirely of this world , part of a distinctly female experience , and therefore more frightening than demonic possession . Collapsing with the children onto the front porch of the family home , Mabel tells them , " I never did anything in my whole life that was anything except I made you guys . " <p> For Rowlands , family only deepened her engagement with acting . Her mother , Lady Rowlands , appeared in several of Cassavetes 's films . Her three children -- Nick , Zoe and Alexandra -- grew up in the house where their parents made and edited their films and went on to make films in which Rowlands appeared . Most notable , she starred as the dementia-afflicted Allie in Nick 's 2004 hit , " The Notebook . " Rowlands confounded her own youthful assumption that motherhood would be the end of her career as an artist . In life , as in her art , she could n't help rewriting the rules of what women were allowed to be . <p> Ismail Muhammad is a story editor for the magazine . He has written about waves of migration to New York , diversity in publishing and the painter Mark Bradford . <h> Ivan Boesky <p> Ivan Boesky after pleading guilty to one count of securities fraud in 1987 . Getty Images <p> He was seen as greed incarnate and never said otherwise . By Jonathan Mahler <p> b. 1937 <p> Ivan Boesky <p> Marianne Boesky was in college in Vermont when federal marshals delivered her infamous 51-year-old father , Ivan , to the Lompoc federal prison camp in central California in March 1988 to begin serving his three-year sentence for insider trading . It was a long trip from Burlington -- especially on the budget airline People Express -- but she made it as often as she could to visit the inmate who once played her Chopin 's nocturnes on the piano of their rambling Westchester estate at bedtime . <p> Ivan Boesky grew up comfortably , if unglamorously , in Detroit ; his father , a Russian Jewish immigrant , owned a chain of local bars with strip shows called the Brass Rail . Ivan never graduated from college and needed five years to get through Detroit College of Law , but he married rich . His wife , Seema Silberstein , was the daughter of a Detroit-based real estate developer who owned the Beverly Hills Hotel . Her father thought Boesky was beneath her but nevertheless set the young couple up with an apartment on Park Avenue , and Boesky started working on Wall Street . <p> His ascent began in earnest in 1981 , with the establishment of the Ivan F. Boesky Corporation . The timing was auspicious . The mergers-and-acquisitions business was just starting to explode with the emergence of junk bonds , which enabled corporate raiders to initiate hostile takeover bids , loading up on debt and then transferring it to the acquired company . Boesky specialized in arbitrage , an esoteric form of investing that involved gambling on these takeovers . Information on possible targets was of great value -- the more " inside " the better . <p> Tall and lean , with neatly parted silver hair , he dressed in the manner of a Gilded Age financier , in black three-piece suits and starched white shirts , the chain of his antique gold watch draped across the vest . He and Seema moved to Westchester , and he started commuting into Manhattan in a chauffeur-driven limousine . He slept no more than a few hours a night and subsisted mostly on black coffee -- " vampire 's plasma , " he called it . He famously assured a class of graduating business-school students at Berkeley that " greed is healthy , " inspiring the fictional Gordon Gekko 's line , " greed is good . " He was a man with something to prove : He made a large donation to Harvard in order to gain membership to the Harvard Club . Even as he cultivated his celebrity , he seemed to know that his days as the king of Wall Street were numbered . " I ca n't predict my demise , " he told The Washington Post in 1985 . " But I suspect it will occur abruptly . " <p> Within a year , he would be threatened with charges by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the United States Attorney 's office for the Southern District of New York -- then overseen by an ambitious prosecutor named Rudy Giuliani . His lawyers worked out a secret deal : In exchange for a reduced charge , lenient sentence and $100 million in fines and repaid profits , Boesky would help build cases against other suspected white-collar criminals , most notably , Michael Milken . He received his instructions for his undercover work from a pack of lawyers and investigators in an Upper East Side hotel suite . Disciplined as ever , he did n't touch the elaborate buffet . As the room grew stuffy , men started taking off their jackets and rolling up their sleeves ; Boesky did n't so much as loosen his tie . <p> He was n't authorized to tell Seema until just a few days before his secret deal was announced and splashed across front pages around the country . By now , their marriage had curdled -- she had come to see him as cold and " transactional " -- but they had four children and so had remained together . She sought advice from therapists about whether to change her name so that her children would n't have to be " Boeskys " all of their lives but was counseled that this might only invite more feelings of shame . <p> Boesky pleaded guilty to a single count of securities fraud and served 18 months at Lompoc , tending to the prison camp 's farmland , lifting weights and growing out his hair and beard . The government , in a somewhat questionable effort to avoid a market crash , had allowed him to secretly sell hundreds of millions ' of dollars worth of stock over the weeks before his deal was announced , but Seema controlled their finances now . After his release , she filed for divorce , and he asked for $1 million in annual alimony and , she recalls , a " beautiful home on a mountaintop . " He ended up with a $2.5 million house in La Jolla , Calif. , and $180,000 a year . <p> Boesky kept a low profile for the remainder of his life and never worked again . Over the years , he stayed especially close to Marianne , who went on to law school and is now a prominent New York gallerist . She remembers a very different man from the one whose image is fixed in America 's collective imagination : To her , he was a voracious reader and autodidact who had taught himself five languages . She had been in attendance at his " greed is healthy " speech -- she was in high school then -- and had heard it as being hungry for life , not simply money . It irked her that her father was still known as greed incarnate , even after the emergence of a new and seemingly more rapacious breed of financial criminals like Bernie Madoff and Sam Bankman-Fried . Milken had rehabilitated his name , bankrolling various charities while lobbying tirelessly for a presidential pardon , an effort that finally paid off with President Trump in 2020 . Her father had pleaded guilty to far fewer charges and had been given a much shorter sentence . He , too , was a major philanthropist when he had the means during his Wall Street prime . Where was his pardon ? <p> She tried repeatedly to persuade him to write a memoir that would round out the picture and complicate his legacy . " This is the rise and fall of the American dream , " she said . " He came from nothing and had the curiosity and capacity to learn about everything . " But Boesky refused . The public would be free to remember him however it wanted . <p> Jonathan Mahler is a staff writer for the magazine . He wrote about the director William Friedkin in last year 's The Lives They Lived issue . <h> Hettie Jones <p> Hettie Jones in the 1960s . From the Jones family <p> Despite her husband 's betrayal , she recreated herself as the writer she always was . By Jordan Kisner <p> b. 1934 <p> Hettie Jones <p> " Unlike any woman in my family or anyone I 'd ever actually known , I was going to become -- something , anything , whatever that meant , " Hettie Jones once wrote . She was , from her earliest memories , an ambitious , daring person who shrugged off the conventions binding young women in 1950s Queens . When she left New York for college in Virginia , she was Hettie Cohen , and she had never set foot in the house of a non-Jewish person ; but , she figured , the farther from home the better . <p> After college , she moved back to the city to attend graduate school at Columbia . Eventually , she grew interested in the downtown arts scene , took a job at a jazz magazine and dropped out . She soon met a young Black writer named LeRoi Jones . They fell in love and married in 1958 , when interracial marriage was still an incendiary proposition : She was never again welcome in her parents ' home . <p> The Joneses fell in with the New Bohemia scene in Greenwich Village . At night , they went to hear poetry at the cafes and jazz at a club in Cooper Square called the Five Spot , where artists like Thelonious Monk and Wayne Shorter were regulars . " It seemed as if another , new language had been offered me , " she wrote in her memoir , " How I Became Hettie Jones . " The Joneses ' apartment became a hub for fellow artists . Hettie later joked that the entire avant-garde scene fit in her living room . The couple started a magazine , Yugen , and published work by their friends -- Jack Kerouac , Frank O'Hara , Allen Ginsberg , Diane di Prima and others . The dark tights , flat shoes and black turtlenecks Hettie and her friends wore became the signature of a countercultural style that designers soon tried to emulate . One day she realized that the mannequins in a store window were dressed to look like them . " It felt odd to have so prompted the culture , " she wrote , " to have many other women want to seem to be you , whatever they thought you were . " <p> The women of the Beat movement were often treated as second-class artists -- sexual or domestic handmaidens to the real artists . As her husband 's career ascended , Hettie transcribed and edited his writing , helped run the publishing house they founded , worked as the subscriptions manager for The Partisan Review and cared for their two daughters . The family was frequently broke . It was Hettie who worked to pay the bills and sorted it out when there was n't enough money for food . To her frustration , her own writing mostly stalled . Referring to her women friends ' thwarted aspirations , she wrote , " There 's an old kitchen way to say what we did : You bury your talent in a napkin . " <p> The Joneses ' life was nevertheless abundant . Throughout their 20s , they threw boozy , amphetamine-fueled parties in their apartment and participated in the frank sexuality of a social world in which " everyone was hot and mixed up . " LeRoi , to Hettie 's aggravation , conducted open affairs and had a child with di Prima . But when he thought that Hettie had taken a lover , he was outraged . " This man is crazy ! " she wrote , incredulous at the double standard . <p> By 1965 , escalating racial violence exerted unsustainable pressure on the Joneses ' already fractured marriage . LeRoi had become a strident critic of white racism , but his own marriage to a white woman drew accusations of hypocrisy from his cadre of Black artists and activists . In the wake of Malcolm X 's assassination , LeRoi changed his name to Amiri Baraka , left Hettie and their daughters and moved uptown to Harlem . Jones was bereft but eventually reconciled herself to the decision . " Well , it was a necessary consolidation of identity , " she told the writer Joyce Johnson with characteristic grit . In the years that followed , she refused to criticize Baraka publicly . <p> To be a young Jewish single mother with two Black daughters was precarious , but she pressed forward , famously making anyone who spent time in their Cooper Square apartment feel like family . " She was a joyful person , " Kellie Jones , Hettie 's older daughter , told me . " She just did the hard things , and she was committed and purposeful . " <p> The end of Jones 's time as " the writer 's wife " also marked the beginning of her own prolific writing years , during which she published some 20 books of memoir , poetry and children 's fiction . Realizing that younger generations knew nothing of the women who made up the Beat scene , she wrote her lyrical 1990 memoir , " How I Became Hettie Jones . " Jones found a subject that was both political and intimate : her inner life and the extraordinary trajectory of her own becoming . The poet came , at last , out from under the napkin in 1998 , when she was 64 : Her first collection , " Drive , " won the Norma Farber First Book Award from the Poetry Society of America . She followed that with two more collections . <p> Kellie Jones told me about a photograph of Hettie at her desk in college , sitting before a typewriter in the evening . A gooseneck lamp illuminates her face . It 's clear the camera has caught her coming up with a sentence , and she looks serious and focused , vibrant in her black turtleneck . " Sitting there , writing herself into existence , " Kellie said . " She was one of the most determined people I ever knew . " <p> Jordan Kisner is a contributing writer for the magazine and the author of the essay collection " Thin Places . " <h> Peter Buxtun <p> For years , he tried to expose the Tuskegee syphilis study , but no one would listen . By Maggie Jones <p> b. 1937 <p> Peter Buxtun <p> One afternoon in the mid-1960s at a U.S. Public Health Service clinic in San Francisco , Peter Buxtun heard an unnerving story . An Alabama doctor had been reprimanded by the federal government for giving a shot of penicillin -- the standard of care -- to a man with late-stage syphilis . The doctor , government officials complained , had tainted one of its subjects in a syphilis study . <p> A doctor in trouble for helping a sick man ? Research in which patients are not treated for an infectious disease , which they may pass on to their sexual partners ? Buxtun , who was in his late 20s , knew plenty about syphilis . As a venereal-disease investigator , he spoke to men about the risk of V.D. -- he was known as the best interviewer in the office -- and encouraged them and their sexual partners to be tested . <p> Buxtun contacted the Communicable Disease Center ( later known as the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ) , which was overseeing the study run by another federal agency . In response , he received a manila envelope on " The Tuskegee Study for Untreated Syphilis in the Negro Male . " The study , underway since 1932 , was designed to track the untreated progression of syphilis . <p> The researchers had initially recruited roughly 600 male subjects : around 400 with tertiary-stage syphilis ; another 200 in the control group who tested negative . The government persuaded the men to participate by offering hot meals during medical-exam days , free health care for minor ailments and burial insurance . The subjects were all Black men from Macon County and the surrounding region in Alabama . Many were sharecroppers and poor . <p> To Buxtun 's shock , the researchers never told the men they had syphilis . Instead , they said they had " bad blood , " a colloquial phrase that could refer to numerous ailments . Some of the subjects underwent painful spinal taps so doctors could learn if the infection had spread to their nervous system . No matter how sick they grew , despite the availability of penicillin beginning in the 1940s , the treatment was the same : tonics and aspirin . <p> Buxtun headed to the library to read about the " doctors ' trial " at Nuremberg , when Nazi physicians were prosecuted for performing gruesome medical experiments on prisoners . Buxtun 's own parents -- his father was Jewish -- fled Czechoslovakia in the late 1930s when Buxtun was an infant to escape the Nazis . <p> In a report to his supervisors , Buxtun outlined his concerns and compared Tuskegee to Nazism . Soon after that , he sent questions about the study to the C.D.C. , which summoned him to a meeting in Atlanta . At a long mahogany table in a conference room , Dr. John Cutler , a leader of the study , chastised Buxtun . When Cutler insisted that the men were volunteers , Buxtun read aloud from one of Cutler 's own reports , which stated that the men would never have agreed to participate without the offer of burial expenses . <p> In some ways , Buxtun was an unlikely whistle-blower . He had never been involved in the study , never known any of the research subjects . He lived 2,000 miles away from Tuskegee , where , among other things , he had a passion for collecting and selling antique military guns and swords . His carefully organized artifacts covered the floors and surfaces of one of his apartments . <p> He was n't the only person to raise questions about the study -- its results had appeared in medical journals . But he was the one who kept at it . He shared his concerns with friends and colleagues . He spoke to journalists . After he left his job for law school , he grilled his professors about potential legal actions . <p> Then , in November 1968 , more than six months after the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. , Buxtun wrote C.D.C. officials once again . " The group is 100% negro , " he noted . " This in itself is political dynamite and subject to wild journalistic misinterpretation . " Months later , the C.D.C. convened a panel of doctors . Only one pushed to treat the men with penicillin . <p> Finally , one night in 1972 , Buxtun chatted with a friend who was a reporter for the Associated Press . She agreed to come to his apartment to comb through his documents . An A.P . editor assigned the idea to a more experienced journalist , Jean Heller , who broke the story . <p> In coming months and years , a cascade of change followed : Senate hearings , a federal inquiry , more-ethical research practices , a class-action lawsuit , a presidential apology from Bill Clinton in 1997 . But much of the damage was done : 128 of the subjects are estimated to have died from syphilis and related medical complications ; wives and children of some of the men also got the disease . And Black America had yet another reason to mistrust the medical system . <p> As for Buxtun , he was not mentioned in the A.P . article and received little fanfare . Some books paid homage to his work , including " Bad Blood , " by James H. Jones , and " Examining Tuskegee , " by Susan M. Reverby . But , notes Carl Elliott , author of " The Occasional Human Sacrifice , " Buxtun never became a household name like other whistle-blowers of the era : Daniel Ellsberg , Karen Silkwood , Frank Serpico . <p> Not that Buxtun was bitter about it . He was n't self-aggrandizing about the fact that he had exposed the most notorious medical-research scandal in the United States . As he once said : Anyone with a moral compass would have done the same . And yet , only Peter Buxtun did . <p> Maggie Jones is a contributing writer for the magazine . She teaches writing at the University of Pittsburgh and has been a Nieman fellow at Harvard . <h> Mary Weiss <p> The Shangri-Las in 1966 . From left : Mary Ann Ganser , Betty Weiss and Mary Weiss . David Dalton <p> Her singing career began and ended before she turned 20 . By Rob Hoerburger <p> b. 1948 <p> Mary Weiss <p> Imagine you are a young girl growing up in poverty in New York City in the 1950s . Your father died when you were a few weeks old , and your family has been without a social safety net ever since . But there is a salvation , maybe the only one -- rock ' n ' roll . You love Elvis , and the Everly Brothers , and soon discover that you have a voice , too . You , your older sister and two friends , also sisters , start harmonizing on street corners . The group moves on to sock hops and local shows , and then by some small miracle gets to record a couple of songs . They are frothy but forgettable , an escape , however fleeting . <p> At that point Mary Weiss , her sister , Betty , and the twins Mary Ann and Margie Ganser could have gone back to high school and years later reminisced about " that time we got to make a record . " But one day in the spring of 1964 , a former gang member turned songwriter named George Morton pulled over to the side of the road and scribbled out a few lines , lines that turned into a song in search of a female voice . Just not the kind of voice that had been singing about soldier boys and boys so fine , parties and dancing and baby loves . This voice had to allow pain , the kind of pain so unbearable that the song needed a second section in which the anguish was whispered , alluded to , with a chorus of sea gulls weeping in the background . The song found its way to 15-year-old Mary , who poured every bit of the struggle of her life into it . By the end of the summer , " Remember ( Walkin ' in the Sand ) " was shaking up the sunny , sparkly Top 40 of the Beach Boys and the Supremes . <p> The song 's success whisked Mary and her group , called the Shangri-Las , out of their Queens neighborhood and into the Oz of show business . Building on " Remember , " they created what can only be called a kind of pop noir , and not just because in a few of their biggest hits , like " Leader of the Pack , " people literally died . Their records had an authentic street sensibility , populated as they were by other-side-of-the-tracks characters -- a repentant runaway , more than one noble greaser -- who loved hard and suffered hard . While much of the credit for the Shangri-Las ' hits has gone to the creative team behind them , few other singers could have pulled off that material , that attitude . In her lead vocals , Mary turned on the pathos tap and kept it running full . Even in the upbeat " Give Him a Great Big Kiss , " she gave overemoting a good name . <p> It was all so exciting -- sharing a bill with the Beatles , hanging out at James Brown 's house . But it was n't long before it seemed the group had traded one grind for another : the overnight bus rides , the come-ons from fans and other musicians . Mary would wake up and not know what state she was in . " You stop being a kid from Queens and what you become is . . . well , a professional teenager , " she said . She feared so much for her safety on the road that she started carrying a gun . " That 's no way to live , " she said . <p> The Shangri-Las in 1965 . Michael Ochs Archives/Getty Images <p> By the time of the group 's final chart entry , " Past , Present and Future , " in 1966 , a haunting monologue set to Beethoven 's " Moonlight Sonata , " the heavy emotionalism of their early hits had given way to a deep resignation . Margie Ganser left to get her high school diploma ; the other members kept going until the group dissolved amid industry neglect and legal issues . Their records went out of print almost immediately . Mary Ann Ganser , who struggled with a drug habit , died in 1970 . Mary married and divorced and remarried and went on to be a manager at a commercial architecture business . It would be 40 years before she released new music , a solo album called " Dangerous Game . " <p> The Shangri-Las ' premature exit , when Mary was still a teenager , left them somewhere between footnote and legend . It would have been easy for her to wonder if her singing career had ever happened , given how much of it seemed to have been scrubbed from pop consciousness . Then one night in the late 1970s , she walked into CBGB , the fabled downtown music club in Manhattan , for a rare reunion concert , and found Shangri-Las records on the jukebox . It turned out that groups like the New York Dolls and the Ramones were big fans , having been drawn to the Shangri-Las ' raw energy . " Without the Shangri-Las , there would have been no Ramones , " Joey Ramone told Mary . She would take it a step further : " The Shangri-Las were punk before punk existed . " <p> More recently , Shangri-Las DNA was all over Amy Winehouse 's classic 2006 album , " Back to Black . ' ' " I love the drama , I love the atmosphere , I love the sound effects , " she said . After Winehouse died in 2011 , Mary told the rock historian Greil Marcus : " She could not stand fame any more than I could . . . . I wish I could have helped her . " On some level , though , Mary probably did . In their too-brief career , the Shangri-Las gave voice to lost souls . And listeners who connected to the group 's music might have felt a little less lost because of it . <p> Rob Hoerburger is the copy chief of the magazine and the author of the novel " Why Do Birds . " He has written for the Lives They Lived issue 19 times . <h> Pete Rose <p> Banned from Major League Baseball , he turned his disgrace into a personal brand . By Matt Flegenheimer <p> b. 1941 <p> Pete Rose <p> Among the many indignities of being Pete Rose -- and he was , for the last 35 years of his life , eager to tally them -- one seemed to strike him as especially cruel : Here was a Cincinnati kid-made-good so revered for his feats on the diamond that they named a street outside the ballpark Pete Rose Way . And yet he was not allowed in the clubhouse . " I mean , that 's the way you treat Al Capone , " Rose told a local TV station shortly before his death , seated before a Warhol silk-screen print of himself . <p> This was the Pete Rose way : defiant but pleading , self-regarding and self-pitying , semi-persuasive despite his persistent self-sabotage . <p> As a ballplayer , Rose was a blazing throwback , relentless to the point of mania -- the man fans called Charlie Hustle . His uniform was perpetually caked in infield dirt . His Monkees haircut convulsed on impact with each headfirst slide . Sportswriters summoned near-carnal language to describe his dedication . " There 's something almost obscene about watching Pete Rose play baseball , " one account began . " Anything that someone enjoys that much must be illegal or immoral . " He was a serial All-Star across 24 seasons , most of them spent in Cincinnati , and the whirring motor of the Big Red Machine , as the team was known at its 1970s apex . His signature was the backbreaking single , swatted between fielders . His record of 4,256 career hits has stood for nearly four decades , as close to untouchable as Rose once was . ( No active big-leaguer has more than 2,300 . ) <p> As a pariah , though , Rose was firmly ahead of his time . Allergic to introspection and undaunted by fact , he dissembled and bluffed through the game 's greatest crisis in generations : his banishment from Major League Baseball in August 1989 for gambling on several sports , including his own , while managing the Cincinnati Reds . Rose publicly denied betting on baseball until he did n't , nearly 15 years later , when he had a book coming out . He denied betting on his own team before insisting that any worthy manager should have the conviction to do the same . He denied betting as a player before eventually wink-winking about his years as a " player-manager , " when he both set the lineup and carried a bat . <p> For most of his exile , Rose 's campaign for reinstatement -- and for inclusion in baseball 's museum of greats in Cooperstown , N.Y . -- devolved into a **29;704;TOOLONG tour that even he struggled to keep straight . <p> " No way did I bet on baseball , " he told Jane Pauley in 1991 , after spending five months in jail for gambling-related tax evasion , " and I 'll never admit I did . " <p> " Yes , I did , " he amended in 2004 , " and that was my mistake . " <p> Locked out of baseball , Rose subsisted on another strength : self-branding . In his reputational prime , he had pushed Wheaties , Kool-Aid , pancake houses in Cincinnati . The night he was banned in 1989 , he made time to appear on a shopping channel hawking signed bats and balls . <p> This form of commerce would become a kind of lifetime sentence , a reel of collectors and trade shows and gawkers approaching him for a modest fee . It was a volume business . After moving to Las Vegas -- little about late-stage Rose was subtle -- he said he worked 15 days a month , five hours a day , signing his name and posing for pictures , often from a table inside Caesars Palace . At one point , he estimated his daily income from such labor to be $20,000 . He also showed up to scribble in Cooperstown on Hall of Fame weekend , uninvited by the sport 's high priests , consorting with old teammates and rivals off-campus until they returned to the official business of being legends and left Rose to putter in a memorabilia shop . <p> Occasionally , the wider sports world cracked open its doors . In 2015 , Fox Sports hired him as a studio analyst , bow-tied and hair-dyed , before he was forced out two years later amid allegations of sexual misconduct in the 1970s . ( Rose acknowledged a relationship with a girl who was 16 , the age of consent in Ohio , when he was in his 30s . ) <p> Last year , Rose placed the ceremonial first legal sports bet at an Ohio casino . ( " Cincinnati Reds to win the World Series ! " ) <p> Through it all , the debate over Rose 's bid for enshrinement was both reliable sports-talk filler and a knotty proxy for the nation 's attitudes toward misdeed and absolution . " Should forgiveness , " a Rose biographer , Kostya Kennedy , once asked , " be granted only to the contrite ? " <p> It is too easy to imagine how Rose might have played this now , as the accused in 2024 , navigating a post-shame cultural moment . He would pick winners on his hit podcast by day and Dance with the Stars in prime time . He would be the highest-paid spokesman for the betting apps with which virtually every major sports league is now in business . He would find America 's most powerful people celebrating his roguish arc . " Major League Baseball should have allowed him into the Hall of Fame many years ago , " President-elect Trump posted after Rose 's death in September . " Do it now , before his funeral ! " <p> Alas , Rose 's sins date to the pre-post-shame age . His most consistent defense was a flailing whataboutism that could still sound coherent enough : Baseball history is rife with abusers and scoundrels whose plaques stand regardless . And none of them earned the " Hit King " title that Rose had stitched into his shirt collar as an old man . " I do n't think I hurt you , " he said , " I hurt me , and I hurt my family . " <p> That meditation came partway through a nearly four-hour docuseries released last summer ( " Charlie Hustle &amp; the Matter of Pete Rose " ) -- a slow-rolling study in lessons not learned . <p> In its closing frames , Rose considered the free market 's appetite for remorse . In the past week , he said , he had scrawled " Sorry I bet on baseball " on 1,000 balls . An order was out for 1,000 more . The demand baffled him . <p> Matt Flegenheimer is a correspondent for The Times . He last wrote for the magazine about Russell Brand , a British comedian and podcaster who has become a celebrated political voice on the American right . <h> Janice Burgess <p> Janice Burgess , creator and executive producer of " The Backyardigans , " at the 35th annual Creative Arts Emmy Awards in 2008 . The show received the award for outstanding special class animated program . Marc Bryan-Brown <p> In " The Backyardigans , " she created a world for kids as wildly sophisticated as her own . By Sam Anderson <p> b. 1952 <p> Janice Burgess <p> For parents , cartoons are like weather . We can control plenty else in our children 's lives : their legal names and bedroom furniture and the color of the tiny shoelaces on their tiny shoes . But exactly which bright animated characters ( SpongeBob , He-Man , Bluey ) will colonize our homes and minds and souls during a child 's formative years -- this is largely out of our control . We 're at the mercy of mysterious powers . So I consider myself extremely lucky that during my daughter 's preschool years , Janice Burgess was one of those powers . <p> Burgess created a show called " The Backyardigans . " The title refers to five chubby computer-generated animals : a moose , a hippo , a kangaroo , a penguin and an unclassifiable creature named Uniqua . In each episode , these friends meet up in their adjoining backyards to imagine their way into some deep adventure . They are polar explorers looking for a yeti , or pirates searching for treasure , and their imaginations are so strong that all the yards morph into that make-believe world -- until , eventually , they get hungry and go back inside for snack time . <p> That 's it . That 's the whole show . It may not sound like much , but " The Backyardigans " was special . It was , on multiple levels , absurdly ambitious . The show was a musical , and each episode was scored in a completely different genre : funk , swing , tarantella , klezmer , rockabilly , Dixieland , Bollywood and dozens more . Plots were often drawn from classic film or literature . When the tubby little characters danced , it was not generic cartoon dancing -- it was meticulously choreographed and performed by Alvin Ailey-trained dancers , before being translated into C.G.I . <p> The resulting show was a bizarre combination of childish delight and high culture . One episode , a quest through the jungle , is written in the style of a Gilbert and Sullivan operetta . ( " Do n't worry , you fellas ! I brought my umbrella , and this is specifically why : It 's big , it 's terrific , and it 's scientifically proven to keep us all dry ! " ) And that ambition -- the show 's outlandish attempt to contain the whole world -- came straight from its creator . <p> Janice Burgess studied art history at Brandeis before working her way up through menial jobs ( craft services , travel logistics ) in kids ' TV . Eventually , she was hired as an executive at Nickelodeon , where she worked on such hits as " Little Bill " and " Blue 's Clues . " But her signature triumph , which debuted on Nick Jr . in 2004 , was " The Backyardigans " -- a show that united her wide-ranging passions . " She really brought all her loves in , " Jonny Belt , the show 's art director , told me . " It was all Janice in there . " <p> Burgess 's colleagues speak of her with affectionate awe . She was a human encyclopedia : She could casually explain the different styles of Victorian carriages or quote the lyrics to " Guys and Dolls " or glance at a mock-up of a Japanese temple and tell you that one of the chairs was from the wrong period . " Today we use A.I. to look something up , " Belt said . " We would always just call Janice . " She also loved action movies and made sure to stuff " The Backyardigans " with chases and capers and twists . <p> Burgess herself came up with the frankly ridiculous idea to write every episode in a different musical genre . To execute it , she hired Evan Lurie , a celebrated pianist in New York 's downtown music scene . <p> " I remember the first week of recording , " Lurie told me . " We did a reggae episode first . And then the second one was country swing . And I began to realize : Oh , we 're really taking this all the way . " It became a kind of parlor game , pairing obscure genres with unexpected settings . An episode set in ancient Greece ? Bossa nova . A trip to Mars ? Kenyan highlife . Pizza delivery among the ancient Maya ? College-football-style fight songs ( drum rolls , cymbals , brass ) . " It got a little out of hand , " Lurie said , laughing . <p> " The Backyardigans " was maddeningly labor-intensive . There were long nights and early mornings . Budgets and software programs were pushed to their limits . " She wanted whatever her name was on to be as excellent as it could be , " said Brown Johnson , the founder of Nick Jr . <p> The kid at the center of " The Backyardigans " was Burgess herself . She grew up , literally , in Mr. Rogers 's neighborhood : Squirrel Hill , in Pittsburgh . ( Fred Rogers lived nearby . ) " In a way , " she once told an interviewer , " the entire adventure happens in Pittsburgh . " When it came time to cast " The Backyardigans , " Burgess chose a diverse group of children and encouraged them to speak and sing like themselves -- not like what they 'd heard on TV . It worked beautifully . Despite all the C.G.I. , " The Backyardigans " radiates humanity . " Janice was a very complex person , " Belt told me , " but also really unable to pretend to be anybody else . She was just all out there . It 's disarming how true to herself she was . " And that 's what Burgess showed us : Even when we 're pretending , we are always authentically ourselves . <p> Sam Anderson is a staff writer for the magazine and the host and reporter behind the podcast " Animal . " <h> Angela Bofill <p> Angela Bofill in New York City in 1981 . Mick Rock <p> She was a musical virtuoso who never quite got her due . By Danyel Smith <p> b. 1954 <p> Angela Bofill <p> Angela Bofill sang , with equal ? lan , from the crest and canyon of her contralto . The singer and songwriter was admired for her three-and-a-half-octave range but beloved because she pulled from an even bigger quiver of emotion . A Latina from Harlem and the Bronx who began writing songs as a child , Bofill was a vocal prodigy who also played piano and viola . She was a scholarly and ambitious teenager , a standout among ruthlessly vetted standouts in elite ensembles like the New York All City High School Chorus and the Dance Theater of Harlem chorus . Bofill , who was of Puerto Rican and Cuban descent , also sang in a Latin R&amp;B band . This affiliation led to a record deal . In her early 20s , she signed with a jazz-fusion label and began recording songs she had completed as homework while attending Hunter College High School and the Manhattan School of Music . It was a period of intense creativity . <p> On her debut album , " Angie , " in 1978 , Bofill made stunning tonal choices , which stretch from pale apology to shuddering requests for faith . The album is a euphonic achievement , though only a relative few appreciated Bofill 's majesty . She quickly became successful in Black spaces and on Black radio . But because of the racial segregation of everything from music discovery to marketing to magazines to the aisles of record stores , winning in the larger and more lucrative world of pop was like hitting the lottery . <p> Bofill 's signature song , the ballad " I Try , " appears on her second album , " Angel of the Night , " from 1979 . In the song , as on the smoldering cover photo , it 's twilight , and she 's entreating an ex-lover . Her lyrics are atremble with diaristic despair . The last three verses are nearly identically written , almost identically sung , and the tension comes from the plush pockets of air within lines : " You know ... that I ... tried ... to be with you/You know ... that I ... wanted ... to see it through . " In those rests is the promise that Bofill 's tone might switch from plain-spoken to pleading . But it never does . The effect is pure incantation . Even as she calls out , " I tried and I tried and I tried and I tried , " Bofill is blue but does not beg . This was also her approach to mainstream attention -- she intended to excel , but she did n't grovel for the industry 's approval . <p> Bofill 's voice , charisma and lush looks did not go unnoticed by Clive Davis , president of Arista Records , who signed her in 1981 . Many label executives were in search of Black woman singers to take pop music to new heights . Davis was trying to produce a suite of stars , including the virtuosic Bofill -- and then he signed Whitney Houston in 1983 . It eventually became clear that , in the process of developing Houston , the label had decided to leave the brilliant Bofill behind . ( Arista put out two more Bofill records , but neither cracked the Billboard 200 . ) Later , Bofill told a reporter : " When I started out in this business , I had a lot of creative input . That became limited in certain situations . " <p> Bofill did try again with other albums on other labels and enjoyed some success . She sang in venues packed with besotted fans who crooned songs back to her verbatim . She also created a warm space for listeners like me to feel what we felt . When I was an anxious overachieving teenager with a body that received more attention than I knew how to handle , Bofill came into my life radiating big-sister wisdom and empathy . I saw myself in the curvaceous singer with the moody palette . In the mid-1980s she married , moved to Northern California -- not far from Oakland , where I was blasting her songs from the radio -- and had a daughter . In the ' 90s she toured , released two albums and did some background work for Diana Ross and others ; in the ' 00s , she appeared in plays . In 2006 , Bofill had the first in a series of strokes that paralyzed half of her body and left her speech profoundly impaired . She spent three years in rehab . Bofill released a live album soon after she began her recovery and a compilation project in 2014 . It was to be her last . <p> In 2021 , I interviewed Bofill for my podcast , " Black Girl Songbook . " Bofill 's representative reminded us that she had difficulty speaking.I asked her if it was her idea to do less jazzy material and to switch over to sounds that were more likely to be played on mainstream radio stations . My informed opinion was that she had been overlooked . That she was just a soulful square peg that had been shoved , by crass executives , into a pop circle . But that was my teenage heart speaking , the innocent , who cried to " I Try . " <p> She made it clear that she was n't anyone 's victim , not now nor back then . Bofill was the girl , after all , who got into all the prestigious schools and Saturday conservatory programs and joined a band , and made a group with her sister Sandra called the Puerto Rican Supremes . No one made her do anything . She always wanted to know more , create more , sing more and be more . <p> I asked if she still sang . <p> " Well , " Bofill said , " only remember one song . " <p> " What is it ? " <p> " ' Happy Birthday . ' " <p> This was life . Not the business or politics or even the art of it . But the truth . Bofill , who mirrored our joys and devastations , was now singing only what she could . And after the taping ended , she told me that she enjoyed singing the birthday song to her grandchildren . <p> " I remember titles of songs , " Bofill said , meaning her own . " But after the stroke , 2006 , the first stroke , I do n't sing no more . " She said she did n't remember anything . <p> It was twilight . And as I told her in real time : The fans remember , Ms. Bofill . We remember every single note you sang . <p> Danyel Smith is a contributing writer based in Los Angeles and the author of " Shine Bright : A Very Personal History of Black Women in Pop . " <h> Edward Stone <p> Edward Stone with a model of a Voyager spacecraft in 1980 . Caltech Archives <p> To run a scientific expedition that lasts for decades , it takes more than great engineers -- it takes a great manager . By Jon Gertner <p> b. 1936 <p> Edward Stone <p> In 1972 , Edward Stone was working as a physics professor at the California Institute of Technology when he was asked to become the lead scientist for a new , hugely ambitious NASA mission to the solar system 's outer planets . The mission involved two identical ships to be launched in 1977 on a trajectory to Jupiter and Saturn ; after that , one ship might also go on to Uranus and Neptune . Eleven different teams would be responsible for the 11 science instruments on each spacecraft . Though Stone 's specialty was cosmic rays , the subatomic particles that emanate from exploding stars , his main job would be to manage a potentially unruly scientific corps of nearly 100 people . <p> Internal tensions are inevitable on a big space project . A ship might require a certain flight path or orientation , for instance , to ensure optimal viewing conditions for its cameras , but at the expense of some other scientific reading ( an ultraviolet sensor , say ) . With the probes swooping past planets at upward of 30,000 miles per hour , observation opportunities would be brief , the trade-offs unpleasant . What Stone came to realize , he later told an oral historian of Voyager , as the project eventually came to be known , is that " if you decide to do this versus that , because you ca n't do both , you 're basically deciding that this team gets to make a discovery and that one does n't . " <p> Stone 's first demonstration of organizational acumen came during an early meeting of the science team . His sharp intellect -- " Whenever I talked to him , " his colleague Alan Cummings recalls , " I felt like I was talking to the smartest person I 'd ever met " -- did not preclude a sense of humility . He was , according to his daughter Janet Stone , " a true lifelong learner " who could devote extraordinary amounts of time to anything necessary for his job . Warren Keller , from NASA headquarters , once said that at the first meeting , when each of the scientists -- the primary investigators , or P.I.s -- stood up to explain their Voyager instruments , " Ed Stone knew more about every one of their instruments than the P.I.s themselves knew . This man was tremendous . " <p> His next move , to keep 11 teams from focusing only on their own agendas , was ingenious : He plucked out members to form " working groups " that hewed to scientific interest rather than scientific instrument -- atmospheric science , for example , and planetary moons . These new teams could discuss common goals and how certain instruments or trajectories might yield superior results . <p> Through it all , Stone pressed his own brand of intellectual empathy on researchers : Advancing science meant considering a competitor 's point of view . And whenever Voyager reached a planet -- Jupiter in 1979 , Saturn in 1980 , Uranus in 1986 , Neptune in 1989 -- Stone conducted workshops in the backrooms of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory , which ran the mission for NASA in Pasadena , Calif . The science teams presented their new data to help Stone decide what merited an announcement . Ultimately , Stone was judge and jury , yet he weighed every argument and counterargument . <p> Understanding the internal politics of Voyager might be akin to understanding the inner workings of a championship sports team . What was in their playbooks ? How important was the coaching , compared with the players ' natural talents ? Such questions would lack salience if the mission ended as a middling scientific effort . Yet it went on to become the farthest-reaching expedition in human history , with Voyager 1 now 15.4 billion miles from Earth and Voyager 2 now 12.8 billion miles away . Stone remained Voyager 's research chief for 50 years , overseeing this once-in-a-generation investigation that overturned many established ideas about the outer planets and their moons and gave us thousands of images that have defined how we see our solar system . Several missions have built on Voyager 's discoveries ( one set out two months ago for Jupiter 's icy moon Europa ) , but Voyager is alone in passing near Uranus and Neptune . <p> The findings go beyond the planetary . By traveling toward the solar system 's edge , Voyager told us where the influence of our sun wanes ( beyond a protective bubble known as the heliosphere ) and where a stream of incoming particles ( the interstellar wind ) picks up . Those discoveries required a dexterous act of management , too -- helping Voyager receive steady funding , for more than 20 years , after the ships passed Neptune and turned their cameras off . It helped that Stone had increasing political influence : Late in his career , he also became the director of the Jet Propulsion Lab . <p> The Voyagers are now ailing : geriatric , glitchy , unsteady . Visiting J.P.L. during a recent crisis , I watched engineers plot how to repair a computer on one of these far-off ships . With luck and effort , the Voyagers might last another five years . On a previous visit , I had met with Stone at Caltech , and his reminiscences drifted to a row of journals near his desk that chronicled every Voyager meeting he had attended . " I think this helped my credibility with the team as I made those hard decisions , " Stone told me . " They saw that I was actually recording what they were saying . " In asking his colleagues to explain their differences , in other words , he grasped one thing from the start : If you seek to lead , you need to be the most attentive listener of all . <p> Jon Gertner has been writing about science and technology for the magazine since 2003 . <h> Wafa Al-Udaini <p> Wafa Al-Udaini at the shore in Gaza in 2021 . From Yusuf El-Mbayed <p> As a journalist , she was determined to tell a story of Gaza that was full of life . By Jenna ( J ) Wortham <p> b. 1985 <p> Wafa Al-Udaini <p> The Mediterranean Sea traces the 25-mile-long stretch of coastal land that makes up Gaza ; for many people there , it is a lifeline . The poet Mahmoud Darwish understood those waters as the sole possession of Palestinians , writing in his poem " The Strangers ' Picnic " : " I will embrace a wave and say : Take me to the sea again . This is what the fearful do : when a burning star torments them , they go to the sea . " <p> Wafa Al-Udaini grew up entranced by that same sea . The waters offered relief for overheated bodies , a backdrop for gatherings , fish to grill for dinner . When the Israeli military destroyed clean-water wells and desalination plants , it became essential in a different way : It was a place to wash dishes , do laundry and , occasionally , under extreme duress , even drink . <p> When Al-Udaini became a journalist , she traced the story of Israel 's occupation of Gaza by its impact on the water and , in turn , on the lives of those who depended on it . This was also her way of ensuring that the story of Palestinians was not told only by the number of civilians killed or bombs dropped . <p> She wrote about the fishermen who relied on catching anchovies and sardines to sell and feed their families . It was a dangerous profession , she wrote , mainly because of the risk of being fired on by Israeli naval gunners . The men she interviewed told her that the Israeli blockade limited their access to equipment for their boats , leading them to replace their motors with truck engines , which can result in capsizing . And yet many of them returned despite the precarity . As one fisherman told her : " I love the sea and its smell . It 's an indescribable thing . " In another article , she wrote about the reduction of water pollution to the sea , which was caused by Israeli airstrikes on sewage networks . She interviewed a woman named Sabah who was elated to go surfing for the first time in years . <p> Al-Udaini was raised in the city Deir al-Balah , in the middle of the Gaza Strip , by a large extended family . In 2007 , she completed her English studies at Al Aqsa University . She quickly became frustrated by Western media 's coverage of Gaza as a place of violence , extremism and poverty . She resolved to be a voice from within , telling the stories of its pleasures alongside its hardships . She wrote for smaller outlets to start , eventually working her way up to regular bylines in The Guardian and The Middle East Monitor . In 2009 , she founded an organization called 16th October to train young writers and activists in Gaza to work with English-language organizations . ( The group was named for the day the U.N . began to review a report that found evidence that both the Israeli military and Hamas committed war crimes in the 2008-9 Gaza conflict . ) <p> Al-Udaini documented the way cultural traditions could become peaceful weapons of defiance . In 2018 , she covered the Great March of Return , which started out as weekly demonstrations demanding the end of the Israeli blockade and the right of return for refugees and ended up stretching on for over a year . She marveled at the endurance of those who kept attending the protests despite losing limbs after being hit by rubber bullets and tear-gas canisters , describing them as " the image of sumoud , " Arabic for steadfastness . Once , sheobserved people in an exuberant folk dance called the dabka ; another time , she was moved by the sight of elders holding the keys to their former homes that they were forced to leave in 1948 . <p> Al-Udaini became a frequent commentator on Palestine Chronicle TV , which airs on YouTube . She always wore a niqab , even though she felt it risked impeding her ambitions to become a prominent voice in the West . Her eye shadow often matched the fabric of her head scarf , pale pink or shimmery opal , eyes flashing as she delivered her reports . Her voice was often raspy , carrying the strain of someone deprived of sleep and time . <p> After a 2023 interview with a particularly hostile British journalist was picked up by the Israeli media , Al-Udaini shared with friends and colleagues that she was receiving threats . Eventually she moved to a town outside Deir al-Balah , where she and her husband built a two-story house surrounded by fields and farms . They loved it , even though electricity and running water had been cut off . <p> On Aug. 7 , Al-Udaini published her last article , about outrage over the deaths of Ismael Alghoul and Rami Alrifi , two Al-Jazeera journalists who were killed by an Israeli drone strike while in a car marked " PRESS . " A little over a month later , Al-Udaini 's house was hit by an Israeli airstrike , killing her ; her husband ; their 5-year-old daughter , Balsam ; and their 7-month-old son , Tamim . She is survived by her other two children , Malek and Siraj , who now live with her parents . Their whereabouts is unknown . <p> Al-Udaini once wrote an article about the catastrophic loss of Gaza 's almond trees . The Israeli military forced farmers to uproot acres of trees -- and the rest were damaged by the contaminated water supply . Almond blooms signify spring and form the basis of local dishes and even children 's games . " They grew so well in Palestine that when asked how they are , locals would reply , ' Almond ! ' " she wrote . " It was a sign of goodness , health , greatness . No longer . " <p> Jenna ( J ) Wortham is a staff writer for the magazine who has written about wellness apps and how the pandemic changed the internet . <h> Wally Amos <p> Wally Amos outside the original Famous Amos cookie shop on Sunset Boulevard in Hollywood in 1977 . David Strick/Redux <p> How Wally Amos made his cookies -- and himself -- " famous . " By Brett Martin <p> b. 1936 <p> Wally Amos <p> He was " Famous " before he was famous -- but names have power , and it did n't take long for reality to catch up . In March 1975 , Wally Amos sent out 2,500 invitations to the opening of the first Famous Amos shop , on a somewhat seedy corner of Sunset Boulevard in Los Angeles . There was valet parking and Champagne.Amos printed glossy " headshots " of his new product , luridly bulging with chunks of pecan and chocolate . The conceit was that the former talent agent was promoting his newest client , the Cookie . But it was Amos who was about to become a star . <p> Raised in Tallahassee , Fla. , with a teenage diversion to live with his Aunt Della in Harlem , Amos had already spent over a decade in show business , after dropping out of high school . In the mailroom at the William Morris Agency in New York City , he used his lunch hours to practice his typing skills , eventually becoming the company 's first Black agent . He was responsible for signing Simon and Garfunkel . Passed over for a promotion , he set out on his own in 1967 , opening a talent-management company in Los Angeles . Along the way , Amos came up with a gimmick : bringing bags of homemade chocolate chip cookies to his meetings . He credited the inspiration to the ones Della used to bake for him . The resulting warm feelings paid off : Among the first investors in Famous Amos were Marvin Gaye and Helen Reddy . <p> With his beard , Panama hat and flowing , embroidered shirts , Amos was the picture of 1970s fabulosity , even managing to make his ever-present kazoo seem sort of groovy . For a stretch , he was everywhere -- in the Macy 's Thanksgiving Day Parade ; on the cover of Time , featured as one of the " Hot New Rich " ; on " Taxi " as a hallucination of the character Latka . <p> Shawn Amos , one of Wally 's four children , called his father part of the " Great American Negro Hustler Generation , " alongside such figures as his onetime office neighbor Quincy Jones : " Young Black men , born into Jim Crow America now shaping American culture . " Wally Amos himself resolutely avoided discussing race , even if it 's difficult now to not read sly jokes into the T-shirts and bumper stickers he printed reading " Have a Very Brown Day , " or the event he hosted with Andy Warhol titled " Cookies &amp; Milk with Amos &amp; Andy . " Still , it was no small thing to have the face of an actual Black business owner join the Uncle Bens , Aunt Jemimas and Cream of Wheat men on supermarket shelves . Fifty years later , it 's still hard to think of any Black food personality who has surpassed him in the public consciousness . <p> At his shops , which quickly proliferated , Amos 's small and irregular cookies were scooped from gold trays onto a butcher 's scale and sold by weight , $3 per pound . In upscale groceries and department stores , they came in brown paper bags . Each was suggestive of a health-food store or gourmet shop , though the cookies did n't really belong in either . His recipe had in fact come from the back of a bag of Nestl ? Toll House chips , albeit with some tweaks . Amos added coconut and pecans , swapped margarine for butter and , crucially , upped the amount of chocolate . " He wanted there to be a chip and a nut in every bite , " said Shawn , who helped his father open the first store when he was 7 and often worked behind the register . <p> Amos and his cookies were indivisible , right until they became all too divisible . He was a far better showman than businessman . In 1982 , Famous Amos took in $12 million in revenue . Only a few years later , the company was deep in the red . In 1985 , it was bought for a song by the first in a long series of corporate owners , each of which diminished Amos 's equity and involvement . Eventually he was legally barred from using the very name that had set his destiny . <p> It became a sort of existential capitalist ghost story : the man who lost his own name . Amos told it often , spinning the details of his failures into an improbable second career as a motivational speaker , author and literacy advocate . " Deprivation of anything which you think is rightfully yours is no more than a detour to a higher plateau , " he wrote in " Man With No Name : Turn Lemons Into Lemonade , " one of 10 books of mixed memoir and inspiration he published . This new identity proved more successful than Amos 's sporadic attempts to get back in the baking game , including with one company cheekily named the Uncle Nonam ? Cookie Company . <p> " It was the great pain of his life , " Shawn said of his father 's losing his company . " But ironically , it was also his next act . " That is , by the end , Amos may have been most famous for no longer being Famous . Great American hustler indeed . <p> Brett Martin is a writer in New Orleans and the author of " Difficult Men : Behind the Scenes of a Creative Revolution . " <h> Rosa <p> The orphaned sea otter who became a foster mother to 15 pups . By Malia Wollan <p> b. 1999 <p> Rosa <p> No one knows how Rosa was orphaned in September 1999 , in Santa Cruz County , Calif . She was nameless then , just 4 weeks old and tiny , a pair of big black eyes and a five-pound ball of tawny fluff . Where was her mother ? Waylaid by stormy seas ? Mortally wounded by a great-white-shark bite ? Entangled in fishing nets ? Floating face down somewhere , her brain infected by parasites ? <p> There are so many ways for a sea-otter pup to be separated from its mother , and yet until it reaches 6 months , its survival in the wild is impossible without a mother . A pup 's fur coat is so buoyant that Rosa could n't dive for food on her own without popping back to the surface like a beach ball . Such a little otter needs a mother for milk and comfort and the training needed to gain essential skills like fur grooming and bivalve cracking . And if that baby grows tired or cold , she needs to be pulled up to dry off and sleep on the lifeboat of her mother 's belly . <p> After a beachgoer spotted the stranded baby otter , Rosa ended up at the Monterey Bay Aquarium , where the mission goes beyond just public exhibitions ; aquarium scientists and policy experts work on all kinds of conservation issues . It was there , inside a building visited by two million people a year , that this motherless otter became a sort of super-auntie for the struggling population of Southern sea otters , which are listed as threatened under the Endangered Species Act . <p> As many as 300,000 sea otters once populated the coastline of the North Pacific rim , stretching from Hokkaido , Japan , to Baja California . By the late 1800s , fur traders had hunted them to near extinction . The 3,000 or so Southern sea otters alive in California today are descended from several dozen that , protected by the rough waters and rugged cliffs of Big Sur , survived the maritime fur trade . <p> The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is currently studying the feasibility of reintroducing sea otters to their historic range along the coasts of Northern California and Oregon . By eating creatures that destroy algae , like sea urchins , otters help maintain towering kelp forests and thick sea-grass beds . Those underwater algal worlds absorb and store carbon , create habitats for fish and prevent coastline erosion from rising seas and extreme storms . <p> For about two years , the aquarium staff tried repeatedly to release Rosa back into the Pacific Ocean , but by then she was overly familiar with humans . She would swim right up to kayaks . One day she scared a group of divers in Monterey Bay when she yanked at their gear and gnawed on their wet suits . Scientists concluded that Rosa was a recidivist , not fit for release . <p> Around the same time , staff members first succeeded in pairing an orphaned pup with a female otter inside the aquarium . Such long-term surrogacy does n't happen in the wild , where motherhood is too physiologically taxing : A mother otter must nearly double her daily caloric intake just to keep herself and her own baby alive . But scientists began to wonder if pups raised by surrogates would be more likely to thrive when released back into the ocean . Maybe they would n't be plagued by the kind of hyperactive human orientation that drew Rosa to those divers . <p> Thus Rosa became one of the founding members of the aquarium 's otter-surrogacy program , the first of its kind . Despite never having had offspring of her own , she was an instinctive caregiver . Over her lifetime , Rosa fostered 15 pups , most of whom were released back into the ocean . Rosa 's pups went on to parent their own pups , who in turn made more pups . <p> Rosa lived to 24 and had the ideal parenting style to foster sea-otter pups at the aquarium . Tyson V. Rininger/Monterey Bay Aquarium <p> The aquarium staff describes Rosa 's parenting style as gentle , unflustered , even chill , which is saying a lot for an animal closely related to wolverines and badgers . Some surrogates can appear to be anxious , yanking young otters around , insisting on constant proximity , which can be a lot for a pup with abandonment issues . Rosa let the mother-child bond develop over time . She possessed a tender tolerance for beginners . ( She became an even-tempered mentor to the novice biologists and trainers too ; she was often the first otter people worked with . ) She schooled each adoptee in how to comb and blow air into its fur to maximize fluffiness and repel water . She was always quick to show pups how to dive and snatch red-rock and Dungeness crabs , flip them belly up onto her chest and then gobble them claws first to avoid being pinched . And despite a preference for crab , she would demonstrate how to pry into prickly urchins , mussels , oysters , starfish , clams and snails too . No picky eaters allowed : Survival in the ocean requires a generalist 's palate . <p> Because of the caregiving prowess of Rosa and her cadre of crab-cracking foster moms , scientists now look to surrogacy as an important aspect of sea-otter-reintroduction efforts . It is hard to move adult sea otters from one place to another ; they often do n't make it in part because they try to swim back to their home territory . But research shows that surrogate-raised otters tend to stick around near where they 're released and survive at rates comparable to their wild-born counterparts . The offspring of Rosa 's adoptees are no doubt out there even now , showing their own pups how to forage in the salty depths and how to keep a tiny baby alive in the vast cold ocean . <p> Malia Wollan is a contributing writer for the magazine . The last feature she wrote was about freight-train heists. 
@@119138711 <p> Sonnenfeld is the Lester Crown Professor of Leadership Practice and President of the Yale Chief Executive Leadership Institute . He has been an informal advisor to five U.S. Presidents and assisted Jared Kushner in the 2019 Peace through Prosperity conference in Bahrain , which outlined the Abraham Accords and a global investment fund to lift the Palestinian and neighboring Arab state economies , and fund a $5 billion transportation corridor to connect the West Bank and Gaza . <p> I 've hosted Yale CEO Summits before -- but few have taken place in such fraught circumstances as our most recent 150th Yale CEO Summit this week or with such remarkable results . <p> The day after Luigi Mangione was indicted for murder , 200 top American CEOs came together , under heavily armed protection , in a bold statement of defiance of the populist fringes , not frightened away or intimidated for standing up for leadership and American character . They gathered at the Ziegfield Ballroom in New York , 32 steps away from where UnitedHealth CEO Brian Thompson was murdered in broad daylight by Mangione . <p> Despite warnings from their boards and from their own security teams not to attend public CEO gatherings right now , they came . Not even far-left protesters chanting for their assassination outside our venue could keep these CEOs away , nor could the " wanted " posters or the " playing cards " with their faces on them circulating on social media . <p> But even beyond the symbolism of CEOs coming together steps away from where Thompson was murdered , this CEO Summit took place against the backdrop of President-elect Trump 's return to office . Most CEOs of the nation 's largest companies did not support Trump 's candidacy , with only one Fortune 100 CEO having donated to Trump ; nevertheless , CEOs rightly understand that the election is over -- and that it is time to unify and come together , because it is in the interests of the American public as well as their own shareholders and stakeholders , to help President Trump be as successful as he can be . <p> Despite criticisms from the far left , CEOs , including those from positions across the ideological spectrum , view it as their patriotic duty to meet with Trump now , engage constructively , and help steer presidential policies in useful directions , especially given their own mixed reaction to some of Trump 's policy proposals . <p> In particular , following a spirited discussion with including some who had just met Trump at Mar-a-Lago , 69% of these CEOs surveyed believe that Trump 's nomination of RFK Jr . to oversee Health &amp; Human Services could pose a threat to public health and the pharmaceutical business , and expressed a desire to help inform the president-elect about how the pharma industry has improved public health and extended the average lifespan of American citizens to record levels . <p> At the same time , 56% of CEOs surveyed believe that Trump 's proposed tax cut from 21% to 15% will encourage greater reshoring and domestic manufacturing activity , and 53% of CEOs surveyed expressed support for Trump 's use of tariffs as a bargaining chip . <p> Paradoxically , though 53% of CEOs support Trump 's tariff threats , few CEOs are excited about the potential impact of Trump 's proposed tariffs on their own companies . Fifty-five percent of respondents answered that they are worried about the impact of Trump 's tariffs on their own company , compared to only 12% who answered that they are excited about the impact of tariffs on their company , and 34% who were indifferent . But at the same time , CEOs do n't seem to believe Trump will actually follow through on all his tariffs threats , as 64% of CEOs responded that they are not shifting supply chains yet in anticipation of any potential tariffs . <p> We were surprised by the number of issues which the group generally agreed on and the spirit of constructive candor and engagement embodied by the group and near-unanimous optimism for moving forward . Virtually all participants agreed on the continuing strength of the American economy , one of the best economies anyone has seen in their lifetimes -- with 77% of CEOs answering that they believe America 's best days are ahead of us . They also agreed that the CEOs visiting Mar-a-Lago are being responsible in pursuing the best interests of not only their own shareholders and the nation at large . <p> CEOs largely did the same in 2016 : though many did not support Trump in that campaign either , they were eager to help him , and the nation , as the incoming president . Many participants expressed the hope that Trump does not relapse into the divide-and-conquer bullying that drove business leaders away . The genuine leadership modeled by these CEOs , and the spirit of constructive , collaborative engagement across divisions captured at our recent Yale CEO Summit , reflects why American business leaders are still some of the most admired leaders across American society , no matter what extremist fringes may say . At a time when business leaders are increasingly under attack , CEOs , and American capitalism provide a compass of centrist , reasonable , genuine leadership , which ought to be a source of celebration and inspiration . 
@@119141219 <p> Pressure is building on the controversial U.N . agency UNRWA over its alleged and extensive ties with terror leaders that has propelled hatred for Israel and support for terror through its curricula . Even as 159 countries in the U.N . General Assembly voted in favor of a resolution affirming to " fully support " UNRWA , last week , Sweden announced on Friday that it has decided to end funding to UNRWA due to a ban placed on the agency by the Israeli government and will redirect Gaza aid to other organizations . <p> Yet , while the U.N . continues to show solidarity with UNRWA , two informed sources confirmed to Fox News Digital that in spite of the vocal solidarity , there is dissension among the ranks . <p> One U.N . source explained that " several agencies have had behind-the-scenes discussions " about who might " take over and run " UNRWA programming . " One of the main and most notable agencies doing so is the United Nations Development Programme , " the source claimed . <p> " The UNDP has come forward and said that they can take over from UNRWA to advance peace , " the source said . They noted that U.N . Secretary-General Ant ? nio Guterres " shot those requests down , " leading to an " internal conflict . " The source elaborated that recent events " show that there are elements of the U.N . that recognize the challenges and clear issues with UNRWA , " but that " even as other agencies are ringing the alarm bells , " their " offers are being shot down at the highest levels " of the U.N . <p> A man walks in front of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency ( UNRWA ) building in Gaza City , Gaza , on January 30 , 2023 . <p> Israel Hayom newspaper also reported that Guterres has passed over the UNDP 's offer to take on increased work in the Palestinian territories . The newsaper quoted " fundamental opposition " from the Secretary-General to the UNDP 's " willingness to take on significant areas of responsibility , such as fuel distribution , waste removal and rubble clearance . " It also reported that " preparations are already underway among international aid organizations , led by UNDP , to expand their activities in the Strip . " <p> Fox News Digital asked Guterres ' spokesperson , St ? phane Dujarric , about Guterres ' position on the UNDP 's offer to take on UNRWA 's work and inquired about Guterres ' thoughts on recent reports of the agency 's leadership 's ties to terrorists and its difficulties raising funds after news arose that some UNRWA members had participated in the terror attacks of Oct. 7 . <p> Displaced Palestinians ordered by the Israeli military to evacuate the northern part of Gaza flee amid an Israeli military operation , in Jabalia in the northern Gaza Strip , October 22 , 2024 . <p> Dujarric told Fox News Digital that " many different U.N . agencies have a role to play , and are playing a role , in humanitarian and development support to the Palestinian people . " He reiterated that , " as we 've said many times before , no other agency in the U.N . system can replace UNRWA given the scope of its work , notable in health and education . All U.N . agencies , including UNDP , have the same position . " <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Dujarric explained that Guterres " will continue to do his utmost to work for an end to this conflict , the unconditional and immediate release of all hostages held by Hamas and other Palestinian groups in Gaza , and for full humanitarian access in Gaza . There are also needs to be a restoration of a political horizon for a two-state solution for the sake of Israelis and Palestinians . " <p> The United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East ( UNRWA ) Commissioner-General Philippe Lazzarini looks on during a press conference in Geneva on January 24 , 2023 . <p> Fox News Digital asked the UNDP whether it had proposed that it could take on UNRWA 's role and asked how seamless that transfer could be and whether a UNDP-led effort might create an atmosphere in which peace and a two-state solution could be reached . <p> A UNDP spokesperson said that the " UNDP does not propose , nor does it support , being an alternative to UNRWA . UNDP 's position on UNRWA 's irreplaceability is aligned with the U.N . Secretary General 's and is a matter of public record . " <p> The spokesperson also sent a statement standing by Guterres ' statement that UNRWA is the " principal means " for supporting Palestinian refugees and that " there is no alternative to UNRWA . " <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> The " irreplaceability " of UNRWA has been questioned , including by senior fellow at the Tel Aviv Institute Hen Mazzig , who recently stated on X that only 13% of aid to the Palestinian people is distributed by UNRWA . <p> Fox News Digital asked UNRWA to confirm this figure . A spokesperson from the agency said that since October 2023 , the agency " has provided over 6.8 million primary health care consultations , " claiming it represented " 60% of primary healthcare consultations currently provided in the Gaza Strip . " The spokesperson also stated that UNRWA provides " 50% of the food security response , " and " assisted hundred of thousands of people with essential mental health and psychosocial support services , " as well as providing " essential logistical and infrastructure support to the entire humanitarian system . " <p> Fox News Digital asked the Israel Defense Forces about the role UNRWA plays in relation to other humanitarian groups coordinating aid in Gaza . A security official said the agency is a " weak player , " compared with entities like World Food Program , World Central Kitchen , UNICEF , the World Health Organization , and American Near East Refugee Aid ( ANERA ) , which " play a more central role . " The official said that these agencies " have their own logistical chains and can work independently from UNRWA . " <p> UNRWA 's fundraising ability has decreased since credible information emerged showing that members of UNRWA had infiltrated Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 . The U.S. had provided $121 million to UNRWA between October 2023 and January 2024 , but then cut funding to the agency through March 2025 . <p> The UNDP is unhindered by these issues and provides a variety of services in the region . A UNDP spokesperson told Fox News Digital that UNDP has funded about a third of its Programme of Assistance to the Palestinian People 's $270 million Gaza Emergency Response and Early Recovery Programme . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> The spokesperson told Fox News Digital that " as a lead development agency within the UN system , UNDP works closely with our sister humanitarian agencies to embed early recovery efforts -- such as rehabilitating crucial infrastructure and cash-for work programs -- into emergency responses . " <p> " In contexts such as the occupied Palestinian territory , Lebanon , and Syria , we have carried out a variety of early recovery initiatives tailored to specific needs and conditions on the ground , " the spokesperson continued . " This has entailed " working with local partners to deliver a range of activities including debris removal from roads to facilitate access to critical services , working closely with local service providers and the private sector to restore essential services such as solid waste management , supporting the rehabilitation and expansion of water supply networks to increase access to clean water , and has implemented solar-powered energy systems . We also strengthen government capacities on emergency response and recovery planning and support vocational training programmes for women . " <p> Hillel Neuer , Executive Director of U.N . Watch , told Fox News Digital that aside from UNRWA , there " are several agencies on the ground who are doing significant work in distributing humanitarian aid . " <p> " Around the world , when there is a crisis of some kind , " Neuer said that " you get a whole cluster of U.N . agencies , " including the World Health Organization , World Food Programme , UNICEF ... and UNDP , which combine forces to " distribute aid to millions of people . " Neuer said that " the notion that is put forward that for some reason a tiny strip of land on the Gaza Strip is the only place in the world where those agencies can not operate " is " absurd and false . " <p> FILE : 11/06/2022 : Palestinian employees from the UNDP in Gaza . <p> UN Watch has raised the ire of UNRWA by beginning to release a 150-page dossier showing URNWA leaders meeting with representatives of terror groups . Though UNRWA Commissioner-General Philippe Lazzarini referred to the reports as " disinformation , " Neuer explained that UNRWA simply " can not handle the truth . " Neuer said that UN Watch assembled its dossier by screenshotting data and photographs that were " hidden in plain sight " on the internet and social media . " He added that more of UN Watch 's dossier is set to emerge the coming week . <p> The U.S. was among nine nations to dissent from the General Assembly 's resolution in support of UNRWA . <p> Ambassador Robert Wood , the alternative representative for special political affairs , explained the dissension on Dec. 11 , both noting that while URNWA is a " critical lifeline , " the " resolution on UNRWA operations also has serious flaws . " Wood cited how the proposal fails " to create a path forward for restoring trust between Israel and UNRWA , " and that the resolution " denigrates Israel 's actions in Gaza without addressing the central reason for them , namely Hamas ' unprovoked October 7 attack and the terrorist group 's deplorable behavior in the interim . " <p> " More than 14 months into this conflict , some delegations here in New York can not bring themselves to acknowledge -- let alone condemn -- Hamas ' role in instigating a conflict that has visited so much pain , suffering , and anguish on the people of Gaza , " Wood wrote , adding that " we deeply regret that the drafters chose to try to score political points , rather than pursue a resolution which could have provided unanimous support to UNRWA , addressed credible allegations about the activities of some of its personnel , and ultimately bolsters UNRWA 's vital humanitarian mission . " <p> While voting on UNRWA 's future , the General Assembly did note the issues with the agency , explaining that URNWA needed to implement the recommendations set by an independent reviewer and that there must be " immediate efforts " to address UNRWA 's " financial and operational crises . " <p> The General Assembly also emphasized that it " strongly warns against any attempts to dismantle or diminish the operations and mandate of the Agency , " noting the humanitarian consequences that millions of Palestinians would face if its work were interrupted or suspended . <p> In an effort to assert the primacy of his organization despite snowballing evidence that its members have hindered efforts to create peace in the region , UNRWA Commissioner-General Philippe Lazzarini penned an op-ed imagining the possibly " dystopian " outcome of a decision to dismantle UNRWA . Supposing that a two-state solution hinges on the agency 's continued operations , Lazzarini urged that " we still have a window of opportunity to avert a cataclysmic future where firepower and propaganda construct the global order . " <p> U.N . Watch 's Neuer disagreed , noting " UNRWA is an arsonist masquerading as a firefighter , " he said . " Only by ending this terror-infested agency with the pathological aim of perpetuating hatred , resentment and dependency , can Palestinians move forward to a future of hope and peace . " <p> This week , we 're looking at OpenAI 's last -- and biggest -- announcement from its " 12 Days of OpenAI " event ; Apple 's potential entrance into the foldable market ; and why Databricks is choosing to wait to go public . Week in Review will be back in your inbox in the new year . The reveal marks the end of the company 's " 12 Days of OpenAI " event , which saw announcements for real-time vision capabilities , ChatGPT Search , and even a Santa voice for ChatGPT . You can catch up on everything you missed here . <p> OpenAI 's efforts to develop its next major model , GPT-5 , are running behind schedule , with results that do n't yet justify the enormous costs , according to a new report in The Wall Street Journal . OpenAI has reportedly completed at least two large training runs , which aim to improve a model by training it on enormous quantities of data . <p> On November 15 , Peter Wang posted a message requesting ideas for a new incubator and fund to support experimental projects built on the burgeoning Bluesky/AT Protocol ecosystem . Four weeks later , Skyseed emerged with an initial commitment of $1 million . This turnaround , a speed underscored by the fact that the fund does n't even have a website yet ( it does have a Bluesky profile , though ) , is testament to several things : the hype around Bluesky , which is emerging as a lifeboat for millions who have abandoned X ( n ? e Twitter ) . <p> Wall Street analysts had hoped the housing market would show signs of life in 2024 . Instead , it remained stagnant : Sales of previously owned homes are poised to set the record for the worst year since 1995 for the second year in a row . <p> With its 0.04% gain Thursday , the Dow finally broke its 10-day losing streak , the worst since the 70s . But this week 's performance was yet another reminder of why the historically important index is now more historical than important . 
@@119143207 <h> Rocket from Yemen strikes Tel Aviv , injuring 16 people <p> A rocket fired from Yemen hit an area of Tel Aviv overnight , leaving 16 people injured by shattered glass , the Israeli military said Saturday , days after Israeli airstrikes hit Houthi rebels who have been launching missiles in solidarity with Palestinians in Gaza . <p> Another 14 people sustained minor injuries as they rushed to shelters when air raid sirens sounded before dawn Saturday , the military said . <p> The Houthis issued a statement on Telegram saying they had aimed a hypersonic ballistic missile at a military target , which they did not identify . <p> " A flash of light , a blow and we fell to the ground . Big mess , broken glasses all over the place , " said Bar Katz , a resident of a damaged building . <p> The attack came after Israeli airstrikes on Yemen 's Houthi-held capital , Sanaa , and port city of Hodeida killed at least nine people Thursday . The Israeli strikes were in response to a Houthi long-range missile that hit an Israeli school building . The Houthis also claimed a drone strike targeting an unspecified military target in central Israel on Thursday . <p> Israel 's military says the Iran-backed Houthis have launched more than 200 missiles and drones during the Israel-Hamas war in Gaza . The Houthis have also attacked shipping in the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden and say they wo n't stop until there is a ceasefire in Gaza . <p> The Israeli strikes Thursday caused " considerable damage " to the Houthi-controlled Red Sea ports that will lead to the " immediate and significant reduction in port capacity , " U.N . spokesman Stephane Dujarric said . The Hodeida port has been key for food shipments into Yemen in its decade-long civil war . <p> U.N . Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said both sides ' attacks risk further escalation in the region . <h> Israeli strikes in Gaza claim more lives <p> Mourners in Gaza held funerals for 19 people - 12 of them children - killed in Israeli strikes on Friday and overnight . <p> One strike hit a residential building in the built-up Nuseirat refugee camp in central Gaza , killing at least seven Palestinians , including five children and one woman , and injuring 16 others , health officials said . <p> In Gaza City , a strike on a house killed 12 people , including seven children and two women , according to Al-Ahli Hospital where the bodies were taken . <p> One man cradled a tiny shroud-wrapped body as mourners gathered at the hospital in Gaza City . Women comforted each other as they wept . <p> Overall , Gaza 's Health Ministry said 21 people had been killed over the past 24 hours . <p> More than 45,200 Palestinians have been killed in Gaza since October 2023 , when a Hamas attack in Israel killed about 1,200 people and triggered the 14-month war . The health ministry does not distinguish between civilians and combatants but has said more than half of fatalities are women and children . <p> Israel faces heavy international criticism over the unprecedented levels of civilian deaths in Gaza . It says it only targets militants and blames Hamas for civilian deaths because its fighters operate in residential areas . <p> Gaza 's Health Ministry issued an urgent appeal for medical and food supplies to be delivered to Kamal Adwan Hospital in Beit Lahiya in largely isolated northern Gaza , while the hospital director described conditions as dire , as Israel 's military presses its latest offensive . <p> The ministry reported continuous gunfire and Israeli shelling near the hospital , saying " shells have struck the third floor and the hospital 's entrances , creating a state of panic . " <p> " Food is very scarce , and we can not provide meals for the wounded , " Safiyeh added . " We are urgently calling on anyone who can provide supplies to help us . " <p> Aid groups have said Israeli military operations and armed gangs have hindered their ability to distribute aid . <p> The Israeli military organization dealing with humanitarian affairs for Gaza said Saturday it had led an operation delivering thousands of food packages , flour and water to the Beit Hanoun area in the north . It said trucks with the U.N . World Food Program transported them to distribution centers in the area Friday . <p> Iran on Saturday said unknown gunmen had killed a local staffer of the Iranian embassy in Syria , the official IRNA news agency said . <p> Its report quoted foreign ministry spokesman Esmail Baghaei as saying " terrorists " opened fire on Davood Bitaraf 's car last Sunday . It did not say what he did with the embassy . <p> Baghaei said Iran considers Syria 's interim government responsible for finding and prosecuting those behind the killing . Iran had been a key ally of recently ousted Syrian leader Bashar Assad . 
@@119144314 <p> The Biden administration is facing mounting pressure to dole out tens of millions of taxpayer dollars to a left-wing nonprofit that advocates for defunding the police , prison abolition and the " liberation " of Palestinian territories before President-elect Donald Trump takes office . <p> The left-wing advocates lobbying President Joe Biden include members of his own administration 's staff . <p> A group of federal government employees , dubbed the " federal environment and energy workers for justice in Palestine , " wrote an open letter to the White House , Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ) and Department of Energy ( DOE ) published on Medium on Thursday . The anonymous career staffers are demanding that the administration disburse all designated federal funds to the Climate Justice Alliance ( CJA ) and end collaboration with Israel . <p> " While our work typically does not engage on foreign policy issues , the ongoing genocide in Gaza has compelled us to speak truthfully on the hypocrisy of protecting human health and the environment within U.S. borders while our government continues to fund and facilitate the destruction of entire communities and ecosystems overseas , " the group of federal government employees wrote . " We call upon EPA and DOE to end their collaboration with Israel until there is a permanent ceasefire and an end to the occupation of Palestine . We also urge EPA Administrator Michael Regan and the White House to release all designated federal funds to Climate Justice Alliance . " <p> " Palestine is an environmental and climate justice issue , " the group added . " There can be no climate and environmental justice within the United States while we perpetuate climate and environmental disasters abroad . " <p> With just 30 days until Trump takes office , the EPA has not moved forward in obligating the grant money to the left-wing nonprofit . Given CJA 's history of engaging in anti-Israel advocacy following Hamas ' October 7th attacks and promoting the " defund the police " movement , the Trump administration will almost certainly decline to transfer any taxpayer dollars to the nonprofit . <p> The Trump transition previously told the Daily Caller News Foundation that the incoming administration , in addition to repealing the IRA , is planning to redirect unspent funding from the legislation Trump has nicknamed the " Green New Scam " to spending on infrastructure . <p> " The American people re-elected President Trump because they trust him to lead our country and restore peace through strength around the world , " Brian Hughes , Trump-Vance Transition spokesman told the DCNF in a statement on Friday . " When he returns to the White House , he will take the necessary action to do just that . " <p> ' Deeply Disappointed ' In Admin For Withholding Grant Money <p> In December 2023 , the EPA selected CJA , a Berkeley , California-based " environmental justice " nonprofit , to receive a $50 million grant award under the IRA 's $3 billion Environmental and Climate Justice Block Grants provision . <p> The EPA 's selectees include recipients that operate in China under the supervision of the Chinese Communist Party foreign influence operation , support open borders , hand out funds to a group blacklisted by U.S. credit card companies over their fiscal support for a Palestinian terror group and advocate for defunding the U.S. military , according to the DCNF 's extensive reporting on the program . <p> Tlaib joined 51 other Democratic lawmakers in sending a letter to Biden on Dec. 4 , urging the administration to " move expeditiously " to disburse all IRA money before Trump takes office , which would include the funds designated for CJA . <p> The group 's federal employees have also come to CJA 's defense stating , " voicing opposition to genocide should not be politicized . " <p> " In our roles as civil servants , we commit to ensuring that taxpayer dollars are used responsibly to serve the good of the public , " the agency career staff added . " We have been deeply disappointed to witness EPA 's current withholding of $60 million to the Climate Justice Alliance , the only one of the eleven grantees that courageously spoke out against the environmental toll and human rights violations in Palestine . " <p> ' Condemn ' Biden Admin 's Israel Ties <p> The group of federal employees also demand that EPA and DOE cut all ties with Israel , citing their belief that the Israeli military is committing genocide in Gaza . <p> The career staff also chastised the Biden administration for allegedly prioritizing military aid to Israel over " environmental and climate justice work . " <p> " We are horrified by the billions of taxpayers ' dollars being diverted overseas to fund Israel 's military campaign while crucial needs of people in this country go unaddressed , " the group wrote . " The ongoing siege on Gaza directly impacts our efforts to combat climate change and protect the environment . " <p> The government employees ' anti-Israel advocacy follows several Biden officials resigning since October 7th over the administration 's policies toward Israel and the war in Gaza . <p> The White House , EPA and DOE did not respond to the DCNF 's multiple requests for comment . <p> All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation , an independent and nonpartisan newswire service , is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience . All republished articles must include our logo , our reporter 's byline and their DCNF affiliation . For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us , please contact **39;1233;TOOLONG . <h> What does Founders Club include ? <p> Readers , <p> Instead of sucking up to the political and corporate powers that dominate America , The Daily Caller is fighting for you -- our readers . We humbly ask you to consider joining us in this fight . <p> Now that millions of readers are rejecting the increasingly biased and even corrupt corporate media and joining us daily , there are powerful forces lined up to stop us : the old guard of the news media hopes to marginalize us ; the big corporate ad agencies want to deprive us of revenue and put us out of business ; senators threaten to have our reporters arrested for asking simple questions ; the big tech platforms want to limit our ability to communicate with you ; and the political party establishments feel threatened by our independence . <p> We do n't complain -- we ca n't stand complainers -- but we do call it how we see it . We have a fight on our hands , and it 's intense . We need your help to smash through the big tech , big media and big government blockade . <p> We 're the insurgent outsiders for a reason : our deep-dive investigations hold the powerful to account . Our original videos undermine their narratives on a daily basis . Even our insistence on having fun infuriates them -- because we wo n't bend the knee to political correctness . <p> One reason we stand apart is because we are not afraid to say we love America . We love her with every fiber of our being , and we think she 's worth saving from today 's craziness . <p> Help us save her . <p> A second reason we stand out is the sheer number of honest responsible reporters we have helped train . We have trained so many solid reporters that they now hold prominent positions at publications across the political spectrum . Hear a rare reasonable voice at a place like CNN ? There 's a good chance they were trained at Daily Caller . Same goes for the numerous Daily Caller alumni dominating the news coverage at outlets such as Fox News , Newsmax , Daily Wire and many others . <p> Simply put , America needs solid reporters fighting to tell the truth or we will never have honest elections or a fair system . We are working tirelessly to make that happen and we are making a difference . <p> Since 2010 , The Daily Caller has grown immensely . We 're in the halls of Congress . We 're in the Oval Office . And we 're in up to 20 million homes every single month . That 's 20 million Americans like you who are impossible to ignore . <p> We can overcome the forces lined up against all of us . This is an important mission but we ca n't do it unless you -- the everyday Americans forgotten by the establishment -- have our back . <p> Please consider becoming a Daily Caller Patriot today , and help us keep doing work that holds politicians , corporations and other leaders accountable . Help us thumb our noses at political correctness . Help us train a new generation of news reporters who will actually tell the truth . And help us remind Americans everywhere that there are millions of us who remain clear-eyed about our country 's greatness . <p> In return for membership , Daily Caller Patriots will be able to read The Daily Caller without any of the ads that we have long used to support our mission . We know the ads drive you crazy . They drive us crazy too . But we need revenue to keep the fight going . If you join us , we will cut out the ads for you and put every Lincoln-headed cent we earn into amplifying our voice , training even more solid reporters , and giving you the ad-free experience and lightning fast website you deserve . <p> Patriots will also be eligible for Patriots Only content , newsletters , chats and live events with our reporters and editors . It 's simple : welcome us into your lives , and we 'll welcome you into ours . 
@@119146900 <h> Houthis fire missile at Tel Aviv * Netanyahu says Hamas must be removed before ceasefire * US pushes for stabilization in Syria <h> US strikes Houthi military faciltiies in Yemen 's Sana'a - report <h> Initially , reports attributed the attack to Israel but then shifted to the US . <p> By JERUSALEM POST STAFF AL HUDAYADAH , YEMEN - JULY 20 : In this handout screengrab released by the Houthi group Media Center on July 20 , 2024 , a fire rises after airstrikes carried out by Israeli warplanes targeting oil storage facilities in the port city of Al Hudaydah , Yemen. ( photo credit : Photo by Handout/Houthi Media Center via Getty Images ) <p> The US is striking Houthi military targets in Yemen 's Sana'a , multiple arab news and media sources reported on Saturday . <p> Reports state that military aircraft can be seen in the sky of Sana'a . <p> Initially , reports attributed the attack to Israel but then shifted to the US . <h> The figure urged Israel to target one of the Houthi 's key military commanders , Abdullah Yahya al-Hakim , who he described as the " military brain " of the Houthis . <p> By JERUSALEM POST STAFF A Houthi follower wears a vest portraying the Houthi leader Abdul-Malik al-Houthi during a parade held as part of a ' popular army ' mobilization campaign by the movement , in Sanaa , Yemen February 7 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/KHALED ABDULLAH ) <p> A figure close to the anti-Houthi government told KAN on Saturday that Israel should go further than retaliatory strikes and should target the Houthi leadership as they did Hezbollah 's . <p> Israel struck several Houthi-held parts of Yemen after the Houthis fired a drone at Tel Aviv earlier in the week . The Houthis fired a missile at Tel Aviv early on Saturday morning . <p> The figure is close to the anti-Houthi government in southern Yemen and said , " It seems that the recent Israeli attacks against the Houthis are not enough . " <h> Recent strikes into central Israel hint that Iran has refined its attack strategy , leveraging both direct launches and supplying missiles to Yemen 's Houthis . <p> By UDI ETZION The scene where a Ballistic missile fired from Yemen hit a playground and caused damage in Jaffa , on December 21 , 2024 ( photo credit : ITAI RON/FLASH90 ) <p> After two Iranian ballistic missile attacks were intercepted in April and October , Israel 's defense establishment expressed confidence in the multi-billion-dollar air defense system , claiming it had successfully established a protective barrier against Iran . <p> Despite hundreds of missiles launched toward Israel , the resulting damage was minimal . The sole fatality was a Bedouin resident in an unprotected area . <p> However , the recent missile strike in Ramat Efal on Thursday and the Saturday morning hit in Jaffa have raised significant concerns . Iran appears to have been refining its strategies , leveraging both direct launches and the steady supply of missiles to Yemen 's Houthis to test Israel 's systems . <h> ' Reaching a deal is closer than ever if Israel stops imposing new conditions , " Hamas says <p> By WALLA ! ( photo credit : FLASH90 ) <p> " The possibility of reaching a deal is closer than ever if Israel stops imposing new conditions , " Hamas said in a statement on Saturday . <p> The statement comes following a Friday meeting between a Hamas delegation led by Khalil al-Hayya , head of the negotiating team for a hostage deal and ceasefire , and representatives of the Islamic Jihad and the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine ( PFLP ) . <p> In the statement , Hamas also declared that the three organizations are unified in their demand for an immediate end to the war as part of an agreement that includes the release of hostages and a ceasefire in Gaza . <h> The poll also found that 61% of Israelis think the IDF should remain stationed near the Syrian border until the situation in Syria stabilizes . <p> A substantial 74% of Israelis believe that Israel should pursue a comprehensive deal to secure the return of all hostages , even if it requires halting the fighting in Gaza , according to a new Ma'ariv poll published on Friday . The poll was conducted by Lazar Research , headed by Dr. Menachem Lazar , in partnership with Panel4All . <h> ' Air defense is not impenetrable ' : IDF investigates failed interception of missile from Yemen <p> Following an initial investigation by the Air Force and the Home Front Command into the missile fired from Yemen early this morning , the incident is still under thorough review , the military announced on Saturday evening . <p> " Some of the lessons learned have already been implemented , both in the interception system and in the warning system , " the statement noted . <p> Further details about the air defense and alert systems can not be disclosed in order to protect sensitive information . <p> The statement emphasized : " Air defense is not impenetrable , and it is crucial to continue following the instructions of the Home Front Command . " <p> " Palestinian armed actors " took over UN Palestinian refugee agency UNRWA 's Jenin health center in the West Bank , and agency staff have been unable to access the site , UNRWA announced on Saturday . <p> Without naming the " Palestinian armed actors , " the UN agency noted that international grants and donations had allowed UNRWA to repeatedly restore the center from the " destruction incurred in the context of Israeli Security Forces operations since mid-2023 . " <p> " This forced entry and presence of Palestinian armed actors is a new blatant disregard of UN premises . It has occurred while the Palestinian Security Forces are conducting an operation in and around the camp , ongoing since 14 December , " UNRWA 's statement read . " UNRWA 's service provision in the camp has been severely undermined by the volatile security situation since the beginning of December , with residents unable to consistently access basic services . " 
@@119146908 <p> The Hostages Families Forum held a rally in Tel Aviv on Saturday , demanding a deal that would guarantee the return of all the hostages . <p> The rally was addressed by members of the families and relatives of the hostages , as well as hostages who were returned in the previous deal . <p> In the statement of the families , Einav Zangauker , mother of hostage Matan Zangauker , who earlier this week marked his second birthday in Hamas captivity , spoke and said , " We heard tonight that the prime minister said in an interview with foreign media that he would not agree to end the war ' before we remove Hamas . ' This is another attempt at torpedoing the deal . " <p> " The same prime minister who deliberately did not act to replace the Hamas government is now using this as an excuse to prolong the war and abandon the hostages . Netanyahu wants to bury my Matan in the tunnels . An end to the war in Gaza and a comprehensive deal to return all the hostages - this is in Israel 's interest ! Hamas has been defeated . Its leadership has been eliminated . There is no justification for continuing the war in Gaza . " Jerusalem - the protest march arrived at Paris square , calling for the release of all 100 hostages in a single deal . ( credit : ORNA KUPFERMAN ) <h> Weak , vile , evil <p> Danny Elgert , brother of hostage Itzik Elgert , said , " This week , the vile and evil manner in which Netanyahu 's nest is run together with his family members , and how the poison machine is operated , was revealed . " <p> " We are once again reminded of the hate campaign that came out of Netanyahu 's office and was launched against us , the families , and against a deal . A fraud operation on behalf of Netanyahu and his people was launched on the public in order to torpedo a deal . Netanyahu , look the families in the eye ! You humiliated us , trampled us , turned us into public enemies . The only thing left for you to do is fulfill the will of the people , end the war . " . <p> Yotam Cohen , Nimrod Cohen 's brother , said , " When we are all in a warm , dry house with a stove and blankets , the kidnapped are freezing in wet , dark tunnels . They are in immediate danger of death and suffering and are in continuous torture . " <p> " There is a heartless and inhuman government here that abandons its own citizens and soldiers , a depraved government that commits crimes against its own people . Get them out of there ! Get my brother Nimrod Cohen and all the hostages out of there ! " 
@@119146911 <h> The UNRWA West Bank office stated that it gained knowledge of the ongoing " presence of Palestinian armed actors " in the Health Centre on Tuesday . <p> A man walks with a weapon , amid clashes between Palestinian security forces and terrorists , in Jenin camp in the West Bank , December 15 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/RANEEN SAWAFTA ) <p> " Palestinian armed actors " took over UN Palestinian refugee agency UNRWA 's Jenin health center in the West Bank , and agency staff have been unable to access the site , UNRWA announced on Friday . <p> Without naming the " Palestinian armed actors , " the UN agency noted that international grants and donations had allowed UNRWA to repeatedly restore the center from the " destruction incurred in the context of Israeli Security Forces operations since mid-2023 . " <p> The UNRWA West Bank office stated that it gained knowledge of the ongoing " presence of Palestinian armed actors " in the Health Centre on Tuesday . UNRWA said that it no longer has control over the facility . <p> " This forced entry and presence of Palestinian armed actors is a new blatant disregard of UN premises . It has occurred while the Palestinian Security Forces are conducting an operation in and around the camp , ongoing since 14 December , " UNRWA 's statement read . " UNRWA 's service provision in the camp has been severely undermined by the volatile security situation since the beginning of December , with residents unable to consistently access basic services . " <p> UNRWA 's Friday announcement comes after the IDF said that the Palestinian Authority was dealing with levels of terror comparable to that of the second intifada . A damaged sign is pictured at the headquarters of UNRWA , following an Israeli raid , amid the Israel-Hamas conflict , in Gaza City , July 12 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/DAWOUD ABU ALKAS ) <h> Third front : West Bank Terror <p> The Post asserted that the IDF viewed terror in the areas controlled by the PA as its third front in the current war but that the military said that it was set to trend downward . <p> The PA has been continually fighting against Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad terrorists in Jenin throughout December , potentially in a campaign to prove their abilities to rule Gaza after Hamas . The terrorists had gradually gained more sway in the refugee camp with complex weapons from Iran . <p> Notably , the Post reported that during the second intifada , 450 Israelis were killed . The onset of the Israel-Hamas war saw approximately 40 Israelis in the West Bank in 2024. 
@@119146912 <h> The wrong priorities : The absurdity of today 's Israel is on full display - opinion <h> Israel 's future depends on the ability of our leadership in all branches of government to promote broad consensus on fair rules . <p> Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu at the Tel Aviv District Court during his testimony in the trial against him , December 10 , 2024 ( photo credit : FLASH90/CHAIM GOLDBERG ) <p> Rational observers of Israel may be pulling their hair out : What are the country 's leaders , in all three branches of government , busying themselves with at this historic moment ? What is the dominant question in the public and media debate ? <p> The Middle East is indeed being reshaped ; IDF soldiers are fighting -- boots on the ground -- in Gaza , Lebanon , and Syria ; for the first time , a realistic opportunity has arisen , one that must not be missed , to eliminate Iran 's nuclear program ; a new administration is about to take office in Washington , which carries both opportunities and risks for Israel ; the society and the economy are groaning under enormous strain ; and most important -- we are still digging graves for those who fell in uniform , and a hundred of our daughters and sons remain in enemy captivity . <p> All of these are , of course , monumental , but nevertheless Israeli leadership pays much more attention to the question of whether the seniority system in appointing the chief justice of the Supreme Court should be maintained . This is complete madness and unparalleled irresponsibility . <p> And to add to this absurdity , the prime minister , the most central figure in shaping Israels future at this historic juncture , is required to appear three days a week in the basement of the Tel Aviv District Court to defend his innocence . Even in times of calm , it is said that the Israeli prime minister 's desk is busier than any other , and all the more so now , when the instability across the entire region requires undivided attention . There can be no doubt : we have lost our faculty of judgment.Ultra-Orthodox Jews protest Israeli military draft orders , in Bnei Brak , November 17 , 2024 ( credit : REUTERS/THOMAS PETER ) <p> AND AS in a Greek tragedy , the shrill drone of a refusenik chorus is heard from upstage : a former attorney-general who recommends that IDF reservists refuse to volunteer to serve if the judicial reform is relaunched ; a former chief rabbi who calls on the ultra-Orthodox , one-eighth of the population , to refuse to enlist , advocating noncompliance with the Compulsory Service Law ; a sitting minister of justice and members of Knesset who publicly air the possibility of refusing to yield to a High Court ruling . One Israeli cabinet minister has declared , with fanatical audacity , that he has not ruled out " regime change . " <p> These individuals are subverting the very ability to maintain the rule of law here , which is the only basis that keeps us from " swallowing each other alive . " <p> Amazingly , Israel has been successful on seven external fronts against its enemies , but it is dangerously close to losing on the eighth : the internal front against itself . The price of losing the internal war is structural and can not be easily reversed : state institutions are undermining public trust in state institutions . The current government majority is exploiting the democratic system in order to erode its foundations . <p> And the main point : social solidarity -- in a time of war -- is cracking more and more . It seems that the immune system of the Israeli body politic is attacking itself . <h> Responsibility lies with those in power <p> THE MAIN responsibility for the situation lies with those in power : the prime minister and the entire governing coalition . They are determined to relaunch the judicial reform . The colossal damage caused by their attempt in 2023 has taught them nothing , and the folly of attempting to change the rules of the game unilaterally , without broad consensus , has returned to center stage . But others in high office are also participating in the tragedy : is it right to dig our heels in and insist on every single issue ? <p> For example , in the case of the attorney-general -- what would we have to lose if the state were to agree to conduct a criminal mediation process in the Netanyahu cases for a limited period of time so that a plea agreement might be reached by the court ? This would immediately free the prime minister from having to give testimony and allow him to focus on fulfilling his role at this especially critical moment in time . Perhaps , if the mediation were to succeed and put a just end to the saga , it would be possible to heal an open wound that has been festering for years . <p> At the same time , in the case of the Judicial Appointments Committee -- would the appointment of one judge who advocates the positions supported by a significant group of the ideologically conservative right cause irreparable harm to the Supreme Court ? I am acquainted with one of the justice minister 's two candidates . His views do indeed differ from some on the current bench , but he is completely committed to the system itself and could represent another voice in the judicial orchestra -- which , while not necessarily harmonious , would be valuable . <p> The bitter truth is that although the multi-front struggle is the result of genuine , patriotic anxiety on both sides regarding our shared future , the generals of the different camps lack intellectual flexibility and expansive vision . Each is entrenched in their own " Masada , " eyes shut to the overall good , which by definition requires compromise . <p> As noted , I do not believe there is an equivalence of responsibility here : the government is more responsible than any other party , because it holds the power and is obliged to wield it in a way becoming to statesmen . The fact that the coalition , which vaingloriously embraces the " conservative " label , is attempting to change the rules of the game is ironic in the worst sense of the word . All the polls show that public trust in the government is exceedingly low , and it certainly does not enjoy the support of the majority of Israelis . <p> A CEASEFIRE is needed on the eighth front , without which victory on the other seven fronts may prove pyrrhic . A ceasefire does not mean the dispute has been settled , but rather is a call for its removal from the nation 's immediate agenda . The debate must continue , but it must be conducted with the sincere intention of reaching an equitable balance of power between the branches of government , not by exploiting a political moment when one of the parties has the upper hand . <p> The parties to the dispute must understand that a decisive victory for one of them is a loss for all of us . A unilateral victory is not a state of equilibrium in Israel , because each of the camps is too large to agree to surrender . The losing side will regroup for another round in the struggle . Thus , for example , if the justice minister manages to pass some of the proposed changes in the Knesset , it is very likely that after the next elections those changes will be repealed by a new coalition . And along the way -- we all lose . Not just the losers in the current round , but also the winners , who will lose in the next round . <p> " Compromise " is seen as a waiver of principles and an expression of ideological weakness . This is a grave mistake : compromise is the life blood of those who seek the good of the State of Israel , given the deep social divides within it . In compromise , no one comes out with all their desires fulfilled , but no one is defeated in a way that triggers extreme moves that could be destructive . <p> Those who have not yet understood this should take an unblinking look at where we are right now : a public sphere that is operating with a centrifugal force that has destructive consequences . The great Israeli poet Yehuda Amichai stressed this when he looked into the depths of the public psyche and determined that " from the place where we are right , flowers will never grow in the spring . " <p> The rules of the game for managing the Israeli dispute are unstable . A simple majority can -- and is currently trying to -- change them unilaterally . Israel 's future depends on the ability of our leadership , in all branches of government , to promote broad consensus on fair rules to be anchored in a " thin constitution , " which can not be changed with a simple majority . A " thin constitution " is the necessary antidote for this crisis . Until it is enacted -- and in times of war -- a ceasefire is required . Only then will flowers grow here in the spring . <p> The writer is president of the Jewish People Policy Institute and a professor ( emeritus ) of law at Bar-Ilan University . 
@@119146913 <h> How a group of seventh grade pupils documented history at Kibbutz Sde Boker <h> " It felt like it was a historical moment to take part in this project . We are maybe the last generation to hear these stories told directly by the people who experienced them . " <p> By ANAV SILVERMAN PERETZ DECEMBER 21 , 2024 17:58 <p> David Ben-Gurion , his wife , Paula , and Golda Meir welcome future US president John F. Kennedy and his delegation to the Prime Minister 's Office in 1951. ( photo credit : FRITZ COHEN/GPO ) <p> When students are asked to carry out a research project at school , they often know what to expect -- read a Wikipedia article , visit a relevant website , and type up a PowerPoint presentation complete with accompanying photos and list of sources . But the pupils at Zin Elementary School in Midreshet Ben-Gurion were completely surprised by the directions given for the David Ben-Gurion research project they recently took part in . <p> The seventh graders were asked to carry out interviews with colleagues and kibbutz members of Sde Boker who knew David and Paula Ben-Gurion personally and record their responses for a radio program , that would then be edited by the pupils themselves . The final radio edit was actually picked up by BGU Radio , an on-demand Internet podcast network , founded and operated by Ben-Gurion University students at the Sde Boker campus . <p> " It felt like it was a historical moment to take part in this project . We are maybe the last generation of middle school pupils who will get to hear these stories told directly by the people who experienced them , " Maya Shoshani , 12 , said.On a recent Friday , Shoshani and her fellow classmates , together with their homeroom teachers , Shva Biton , Tal Mazgauker , and Tali Brunner , rode on their bicycles from Zin to Kibbutz Sde Boker , located about five kilometers away . " It was different from the typical school project because we got to hear things that we do n't hear every day from the people who lived history , " she added . <p> Shoshani and her group interviewed four veteran members of Kibbutz Sde Boker : Naava Bekrech , 84 ; Shmulik Melamed , 85 ; Elisha Zurgil , 79 ; and Ora Dat , 82 . Paula Ben-Gurion stands at the fence of the Ben-Gurion home in Tel Aviv in 1955. ( credit : HANS PINN/GPO ) <p> Dat worked as the kibbutz nurse and often treated Paula Ben-Gurion , as well as David . She shared with the seventh grade pupils many memories of kibbutz life alongside the Ben-Gurions . <p> " I visited the home of David and Paula quite frequently as a nurse , " said Dat , who would also drop by to chat with Paula , who was quite lonely on the kibbutz . " Any time there was a health concern or issue , I was called to check up on them . I can remember taking their blood pressure , " she said . <p> " Ben-Gurion was an honored guest at the weddings and brit milah ceremonies held in the kibbutz , " Dat told the pupils , showing them a photo of her own kibbutz wedding , with David Ben-Gurion in attendance . " He would insist on holding each baby during the brit ceremony , but at some point he became too frail to do this and I asked that he remain seated during the ceremonies , " she recalled . <p> " When I went to invite Ben-Gurion to our wedding in 1968 , it was two months after Paula had died , " Dat recounted . " He was very sad . I did n't know if he would even come to our wedding . But he attended and told us to have many children , " Dat said with a smile . <p> " It may have been the last wedding he attended on the kibbutz . We went on to have four kids , and today I have a grandson deployed in Gaza , " she added . <h> Arriving at the kibbutz <p> UPON RETIRING as prime minister , David Ben-Gurion and his wife moved from the heart of Tel Aviv to Kibbutz Sde Boker in 1953 and became full-fledged kibbutz members . At the time , David was 67 and Paula , 61 . ( In 1955 , Ben-Gurion would become defense minister , and later , again prime minister . He would officially retire from political life and go on to live in Sde Boker permanently in 1970 . ) The kibbutz had been established more than one year earlier , in May 1952 , and members did not even have running water or electricity . <p> According to kibbutz member Bekrech , who worked for many years as kibbutz secretary , when the Ben-Gurions first arrived in Sde Boker conditions were very different from today . <p> The kibbutzniks would have to travel to Yeroham by tractor to fill an empty tank with water , which they would transport back to the kibbutz . The water would last the kibbutz two to three days , and then the tank had to be refilled again in Yeroham . <p> " The first water pipe arrived in 1955 . The Ben-Gurions had arrived at the kibbutz when there was literally nothing but a few tents and huts in the middle of the desert , " Bekrech said . " The Ben-Gurions were the oldest couple on the kibbutz ; the rest of us were young , just getting married and starting our families . David wanted to work just like everyone else did at the time , " Bekrech said . " He wanted to be one of us . " <p> One of the initial goals of the founders was to establish a ranch filled with cows , sheep , goats , and horses . Only later on would the founders become part of the kibbutz movement . According to Bekrech , Ben-Gurion would go out with one of the members of the kibbutz to till the land in the nearby wadi , to make it viable for growing grass needed for the intended herd . <p> " At some point , Ben-Gurion was transferred to another job because the physical labor of tilling land was too much for him , " Bekrech explained . " It was n't work that was suitable for a senior citizen . Ben-Gurion went on to take care of the young kid goats , then on to the kibbutz 's meteorological station , until he finally settled into writing his memoirs and recording the Jewish state 's early history . " <p> The seventh graders were particularly interested in the going-ons of the kibbutz cafeteria . " Did Ben-Gurion eat with you ? " asked one pupil . <p> " He would eat lunch with us every day in the kibbutz cafeteria , " replied Bekrech . <p> " Even when heads of state from abroad and Israeli ministers would visit , Ben-Gurion would insist on having lunch with his important guests in the kibbutz dining hall , " noted Bekrech . " I remember when US president Dwight D. Eisenhower came to visit . " <p> During such VIP visits , Paula would bring fancy dinnerware from their home and a nice tablecloth for the cafeteria table on which heads of state would dine . Bekrech was quick to note that the important officials would eat the same food as the rest of the kibbutzniks , just not from the regular plastic dishes of the kibbutz dining hall . " When the Ben-Gurions had special visitors , Paula would ask the cooks in the kitchen to make pea soup because she thought it was delicious , " she added . <p> According to Bekrech and Dat , Paula was more involved in day-to-day life with the kibbutzniks than David Ben-Gurion . " Paula was bored here in the kibbutz . She chatted with us and would invite us into their home . She had a lot of humor and said exactly what she thought , " said Bekrech , whose husband , Rafi , was one of the founders of Sde Boker.For pupil Daphne Herrero Hanegbi , who lives in Kibbutz Sde Boker , the interview project was eye-opening . " One story that I really liked was that when Ben-Gurion was out walking , he once asked a kid who was playing outside what he wanted to be when he grew up . The kid responded that he wanted to be prime minister , just like Ben-Gurion . Ben-Gurion told him he could be anything he wanted -- just not prime minister . " <p> " I still ca n't understand why Ben-Gurion would say that , " she said . <p> " I feel like I know much more about Israel 's first prime minister than I ever did before , " she concluded . <p> IN ADDITION to the radio program created by the seventh grade , all the other grades at Zin , from first to eighth , focused on different elements of Israel 's first prime minister in art , healthy living , culture , political policy , and life as a kibbutz member , among other subjects . Led by the school principal , Orit Freiberg , and her dedicated staff , the pupils ' research and works were <p> on display in their student-made " museum " in time for David Ben-Gurion Day , which fell on December 8 this year.Dat and Bekrech went to see the pupils ' museum at Zin and were amazed with the time and research put in . " It 's heartwarming to see how much thought and effort the pupils put into learning about David Ben-Gurion . We were so pleased that we could contribute in some small way to this amazing project , " Dat told the Magazine . " I 'm glad that the pupils found Ben-Gurion so interesting . " ? 
@@119146914 <h> The Houthis are one example where precision strikes on infrastructure such as ports may not work to win the conflict . <p> A banner depicting U.S. and Israeli flags is burned , as protesters , mainly Houthi supporters , rally to show support to Palestinians in the Gaza Strip , in Sanaa , Yemen December 13 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/KHALED ABDULLAH ) <p> The Iranian-backed Houthis launched a missile attack targeting Tel Aviv in the early morning hours of Saturday . It came two days after another similar long-range missile attack had led to Israeli retaliation against the Houthis . There was also an attack on December 16 by the Houthis . <p> This group is now posing as the " last man standing " in Iran 's axis of " resistance " groups that have been attacking Israel . However , it does not appear to be deterred by Israeli attacks on various types of infrastructure . <p> It 's important to understand that Israel has carried out three rounds of retaliatory strikes on the Houthis , one in July , then in September and now in December . However , the group continues to attack . <h> Struggles Israel faces <p> In fact , it is increasing its attacks , using long range missiles and drones . Yemen is more than 2,000 kilometers away from Israel , making retaliation difficult . Warplanes have to fly a long mission , with refuelers to accomplish the strikes on the enemy . <p> The Houthis know this . They also know that Hezbollah has been weakened , Hamas is weakened and that Iran has been pushed out of Syria by the fall of the Assad regime . Iranian-backed militias in Iraq appear to have also stepped back from attacks on Israel . Israeli emergency services work at the scene of a missile strike that was launched from Yemen and landed in Jaffa , south of Tel Aviv , Israel , December 21 , 2024. ( credit : STOYAN NENOV/REUTERS ) <p> This leaves the Houthis as one of the main fronts Iran can use in attacks , which is why they are increasing the strikes . In the Thursday attack debris from a missile fell on a school , collapsing part of it . The attack took place early in the morning , so no one was harmed . <p> However the attack on Saturday morning did injure people . The IDF said that " overnight , a missile was fired from Yemen into central Israel , and a fallen projectile was identified in the Tel Aviv-Yafo area . IDF Home Front Command teams and additional rescue forces were dispatched to the scene and began searching the area along with additional security forces , local officials , and emergency services to investigate the scene of the fallen projectile . " <p> Several civilians were injured . The missile impacted a site near Jaffa . This is a dangerous escalation and shows that Israel can not sit back and just let the Houthis attack , as has been the case for a year and two months . Israel has focused on other fronts . <p> It also shows that photos atop Mount Hermon with Israeli officials and top military brass seemingly declaring victory are not enough to stop the Houthis , or Hamas , which continues to hold 100 hostages . <p> Israel also faces challenges with Hezbollah . Many people have not returned to the border , because the two-month ceasefire could be fragile . This illustrates that a sense of victory that Israel has felt may be misplaced . 
@@119174007 <p> Max Page , President of the MTA , speaks at a demonstration for new teacher contracts and equitable pay for educators in Malden and Haverhill outside of Malden City Hall in Malden , Mass. on Oct. 15 , 2022 . Carlin Stiehl for The Boston Globe <p> The New England chapter of the American Jewish Committee has released a report accusing the Massachusetts Teachers Association of demonizing Israel and promoting one-sided educational material about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . <p> " This campaign risks politicizing K-12 classrooms across Massachusetts . Our schools should be places for education , not indoctrination , " AJC New England Director Rob Leikind said in a statement . " The MTA 's actions over the last year raise questions about its commitment to this ideal . They also are contributing to an increasingly toxic environment for Jewish students and families . " <p> In a statement , MTA President Max Page and Vice President Deb McCarthy said the union 's board voted to create optional resources for teachers to help them understand the history of the conflict . Those resources include educational materials with a range of voices and perspectives , they said . <p> Advertisement <p> " The MTA is aware that any recommended resources on this topic will be controversial . The union moved deliberately and with much reflection to assemble materials that members could consider to enrich their own understanding , " Page and McCarthy said . " As a democratic union , we embrace healthy debate and learning , and this issue is no different . " <p> Hamas ' attack on Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , and Israel 's subsequent military campaign in Gaza , have already caused schisms within the MTA 's membership . On Dec. 9 , 2023 , the MTA 's board of directors passed a resolution calling for the United States to stop funding Israel 's " genocidal war " in Gaza . Several local chapters criticized the resolution including the Newton Teachers Association which branded it " anti-Semitic dog-whistling . " <p> The AJC criticized the December resolution for failing to include any reference to the hundreds of Israeli hostages held by Hamas . The MTA had previously signed on to a joint petition with other labor unions that called for both a ceasefire and the release of hostages . Four days after the resolution went out , the union 's leadership released a statement that called for peace and described Oct. 7 as a " horrific attack . " <p> The AJC 's report also criticized a measure passed by the MTA board in June rejecting the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance 's working definition of antisemitism . That definition says examples of antisemitism include describing the existence of the state of Israel as racist and comparing Israeli policy to that of the Nazis . The MTA 's motion said right-wing groups are lobbying to have the state adopt that definition in an effort to " manufacture hysteria " and quash legitimate discussion of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . <p> Advertisement <p> The AJC highlighted a March webinar for teachers on anti-Palestinian racism that was held by the union 's antiracism task force . The webinar discussed the Israeli-Palestinian conflict as part of a " larger framework of colonialism and imperialism , " and disputed claims that anti-Zionism is inherently antisemitic . <p> The Anti-Defamation League said the webinar promoted " antisemitic and anti-Israel falsehoods . " In April , State Senators Jason Lewis and Rebecca Rausch sent Page a letter saying the union 's actions did not support " productive dialogue or meaningful strides toward peace . " <p> Page , who is Jewish and a former synagogue president , said in May that allegations of antisemitism against union leadership were " ludicrous . " <p> " There 's a real danger in our society today when we make sort of grand pronouncements about the essence of one person or another , and I just think that rarely helps develop a conversation , " he said . <p> The AJC report raised concerns about the MTA 's website referring teachers to educational materials with a pro-Palestinian or anti-Israel perspective . It levied particular criticism against Ricardo Rosa , who leads the MTA 's Training and Professional Learning division , citing pro-Palestinian posts Rosa made on social media . The report includes a screenshot of an alleged post on Rosa 's Instagram on Oct. 9 , 2023 , with the words " Free Palestine " above an illustration of people waving Palestinian flags and carrying slingshots . <p> Hamas killed about 1,200 Israelis in its Oct. 7 attack , including hundreds of civilians , and abducted hundreds more to keep as hostages . Israel 's retaliatory campaign has killed more than 45,000 people , including tens of thousands of women and children , according to Gaza 's Health Ministry , which does not distinguish between civilian and combatant deaths . 
@@119178300 <h> A race against time : Critically ill hostages believed to be the next released <h> With the intensification of hostage deal negotiations , mediators have focused on elderly and critically ill individual . <p> A woman casts a shadow as she walks past a banner calling for the release of the hostages kidnapped during the deadly October 7 , 2023 attack by Hamas , amid the ongoing conflict in Gaza between Israel and Hamas , in Tel Aviv , Israel , December 5 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/Stoyan Nenov TPX IMAGES OF THE DAY ) <p> As hopes rise for the return of the hostages , discussions focus on the " humanitarian list , " which prioritizes the release of those whose lives are at clear and immediate risk . After nearly 500 days in captivity , experts believe many hostages have been denied proper medical care , causing their health to deteriorate under harsh conditions . Their mental health is also severely impacted , further compromising their ability to survive . <p> Accounts from recently released hostages paint a grim picture of the physical and mental state of those still in captivity . The last known sign of life from Matan Tsangauker showed him visibly underweight , with injuries to his lips that suggest severe nutritional deficiencies . Alongside Matan , 99 other hostages remain in captivity , many with chronic illnesses requiring daily treatment . Without proper care , they are at immediate risk of death . <p> Prof. Hagai Levine , head of the health department for the Hostage Families Headquarters , told Maariv : " After 443 days in captivity , every hostage is a humanitarian case at immediate risk of death . The horrific conditions they endure have left them physically and mentally damaged , and we fear for their survival as winter sets in . All the hostages must be brought home in a deal -- those who are alive for rehabilitation and those who have perished for a dignified burial . " <p> These are the most critically ill hostages , listed by age , who are believed to be prioritized on the " humanitarian list " for release : Hamas released a video of three elderly male Israeli hostages pleading for their release . December 18 , 2023. ( credit : Screenshot/Hamas Telegram ) <h> Shlomo Mansour , 86 , Kibbutz Kissufim <p> The oldest hostage held captive , alongside Oded Lifshitz , Mansour suffers from conditions linked to aging , such as vitamin D deficiency , which increases the risk of life-threatening fractures . A prolonged lack of sunlight and movement further heightens the likelihood of falls and severe bone injuries . <h> Oded Lifshitz , 85 , Kibbutz Nir Oz <p> Lifshitz has preexisting respiratory and cardiovascular conditions that place him in immediate danger without proper care . Like Mansour , he faces heightened risks of osteoporosis and fractures due to extended captivity . <h> Gadi Moses , 79 , Kibbutz Nir Oz <p> Moses suffers from gastrointestinal , heart , and vascular diseases . He also requires hearing aids and glasses , and his sensory impairments significantly increase the risks of falls , isolation , depression , and cognitive decline , potentially leading to dementia . <h> Yosef Al-Ziadna , 53 , Rahat <p> Al-Ziadna , a minibus driver abducted along with his children -- who have since been released -- reportedly suffers from a life-threatening chronic illness that requires medication every few hours . Without it , he is in immediate danger . <h> Romi Gonen , 24 , Tel Aviv <p> Gonen was severely injured during the abduction , including gunshot wounds . Survivors report inadequate medical treatment for open wounds among hostages , leading to life-threatening infections . Gonen 's untreated injuries may result in permanent disability or worse . <h> Omer Shem Tov , 22 , Herzliya <p> Shem Tov , who has suffered from respiratory issues since birth , relies on inhalers and also has celiac disease , which requires a strict gluten-free diet . Any exposure to gluten triggers severe attacks , and repeated incidents can lead to irreversible intestinal damage , life-threatening inflammation , and even cancer . <h> Dire conditions for all hostages <p> All hostages face significant health risks from malnutrition , infections , respiratory issues caused by extended time in tunnels , and deteriorating vision and hearing . Severe psychological trauma adds another layer of danger . Experts stress that all hostages must be returned home immediately to prevent further loss of life . 
@@119178307 <h> Moni Moshonov and Efroni Choir team up for ' The Box of Fear , ' based on Shlomit Cohen-Assif 's poem . <p> A new music video called Teivat HaPachad ( The Box of Fear ) offers a moving and artistic exploration of children 's experiences during wartime . Directed by Meital Ner and featuring actor Moni Moshonov alongside the Efroni Choir , the video delivers a profound message about fear , resilience , and the lasting impact of conflict across generations . <p> The video is inspired by a poem of the same name by Shlomit Cohen-Assif , one of Israel 's most prominent Hebrew children 's poets . Set to music by composer Nadav Vikinski , the project transforms Cohen-Assif 's poignant words into a stirring visual and musical experience . <p> Vikinski discovered Cohen-Assif 's poem on Facebook in the days following October 7 . The poem uniquely captured the duality of fear and hope , resonating with his own emotional upheaval during that week . Standing in line at stores with worried fathers trying to secure bomb shelters , he was reminded of the poem 's poignant imagery -- " locked the fear in a secret box . " SCENES FROM the ' Box of Fear ' video featuring Moni Moshonov. ( credit : SCREEN CAPTURE ) <h> Inspired by October 7 <p> Inspired by the events of October 7 , the project draws heavily on the story of a child from a Gaza border community whose parents were murdered during the attack . Protecting his younger sister , the child hid in a closet while speaking with Magen David Adom over the phone . <p> Ner explained that this harrowing story is already part of Israel 's collective memory . Yet , she chose a subtle approach , aiming to address the subconscious of the Israeli audience . " This story was so intense that you ca n't show it as it is , " she said . " You need to talk to the subconscious . " <p> The video follows an eight-year-old boy navigating a desolate landscape , playing games that mirror the adult reality of war . Ner crafted the child 's character to be blissfully unaware of the gravity of his surroundings , highlighting the stark contrast between his innocent imagination and the harsh reality . This dynamic echoes the themes of Roberto Benigni 's Life is Beautiful , where a child 's perspective softens the horrors of conflict . <p> " What gives you goosebumps is the gap between the child 's inner world and the real world , " Ner explains . " He thinks it 's only a game , but it 's his actual reality . " Through this lens , " The Box of Fear " explores both suppressed and overt emotions , represented respectively by the child and the choir . <p> The video 's symbolism is deeply rooted in the history and culture of the region . The red anemone flower , a symbol of the area , features prominently , reflecting Ner 's commitment to letting the community shape its representation . " I did n't want to impose anything on them , " she says . " This is a symbol they choose . " Other key visuals include the water tower in Kibbutz Beeri and iconic landmarks , further grounding the story in its setting . <p> Despite interruptions during production -- including an Irani attack that forced the cast and crew to halt filming -- the team persevered . Many cast members volunteered their time , underscoring the collective effort behind the project . The child actor himself experienced a dramatic moment when the attack occurred while he was in the car on the way home , leaving him with no opportunity to seek shelter . <p> Moni Moshonov 's narration bridges the generational gap . " This is a generational story , " Ner emphasizes . " If we look locally , Moshonov represents our parents , who suffered through the Yom Kippur War . It could easily be his story , too . " For Moshonov , the project resonated deeply . " These are the moments when it 's important to talk , to listen , and to create connection through art -- especially on such a painful topic , " he said . <p> He views the song as a bridge to children , offering them a way to begin processing their trauma . <p> " If even one child feels some relief because of it , it will bring me immense happiness , " Moshonov said . <p> " The video speaks to everyone , " Ner notes . " It 's about children in a war , not just those affected by October 7 . " This universality , paired with the deeply personal nature of the story , makes " The Box of Fear " both timely and timeless . 
@@119181219 <p> At a time when the world is so chaotic you may be avoiding the news , it 's easy to conclude there 's no way you can make a difference . <p> Especially when it comes to Vladimir Putin 's genocidal war on Ukraine ( which the Trump administration may abandon ) , or Israel 's endless revenge on Gazan civilians for Hamas ' murderous rampage on Oct. 7 , 2023 . <p> Advertisement <p> Yet , one way to counter this sense of hopelessness -- one that I , too , often experience -- is to narrow your focus . This Christmas season , it is possible to donate to charitable organizations that can ease the suffering of individuals in war zones . Wherever possible , I am partial to smaller groups whose work I have witnessed abroad , especially in Ukraine . <p> As I did last year , I particularly recommend Ukraine TrustChain , whose teams deliver aid directly to where it is most needed , under threat of rockets and drone attacks . I have witnessed its terrific work on two reporting trips . <p> Ukraine TrustChain was founded at the start of the current war by two Ukrainian American friends who had emigrated from Kyiv to Chicago and Philadelphia , respectively , when they were 10 years old . Their concept was to find team leaders in Ukraine among people they or their circle of contacts trusted and have those volunteers build regional networks of people they trusted , in turn . <p> The money raised goes directly to the teams , with constant contact and periodic visits from U.S. board members . <p> Ukraine , like the United States , is a volunteer society , and immediately after the war , groups sprang up around the country to bring supplies to villages and towns under shelling and help or shelter those who wanted to evacuate . The TrustChain has drawn on such groups . <p> I traveled with volunteer groups comprised of professionals and entrepreneurs , including a florist , a restaurateur , a psychotherapist , and a real estate agent . Many of the volunteers were women and retirees , or young men below draft age , who drove every weekend with truckloads of donated foodstuffs and essentials to villages damaged by Russian forces . <p> In one case , the mission was to assess roof and window damage at homes and schools and return with repair workers hired via donations . In another , it was to help villagers dig out after flooding when the Russians blew up a dam . I have witnessed the gratitude of desperate Ukrainians for the group 's aid . <p> What is so astonishing is that these volunteers have persevered after nearly three years of war and incredible risks . Russian drone pilots are on the lookout for aid vehicles . In November , one volunteer was killed and his father injured by a drone while delivering much-needed firewood to elderly residents of Ochakiv , in southern Ukraine . This kind of dedication helps explain why the country has so far survived the Russian onslaught . <p> Another incredible humanitarian aid effort that has helped war wounded is the Ukraine Initiatives project , coordinated by the University of Pennsylvania 's Penn Center for Global Health under Glen Gaulton . The funding for this program comes from the Center for Global Health and from donations . <p> With the ongoing war , the number of amputations and explosive injuries has presented challenges that excellent Ukrainian surgeons have never encountered . <p> So numerous Penn surgeons and other specialists , guided medically by the indomitable Penn chief medical officer , Patrick J. Brennan , and supported logistically by the indefatigable Kierstyn Claycomb , partner up with leading Ukrainian medical centers . Via online consults , they supervise microsurgeries that can salvage limbs or prevent the worsening of leg and arm injuries . <p> Practically every day there are early morning online team-ups -- which are amazing to watch -- between Penn surgeons and Ukrainian counterparts conducting live operations . There are also periodic exchange visits by doctors . The idea is to train the Ukrainians in new surgical techniques so they , in turn , can train teams of colleagues . <p> I have witnessed the gratitude of frontline soldiers -- often civilians who had never fought before the Russian invasion -- whose limbs have been saved , infections cured , or debilitating pain relieved by this collaboration . And the need never ends . <p> When it comes to Gaza , I have not witnessed aid deliveries myself because Israel rarely permits foreign journalists to enter the strip . But I have long known about , and previously written about , the nonpartisan work of the private U.S. aid agency Anera , which has no political or religious affiliation and has worked since 1968 with those hurt by conflicts in Palestine , Lebanon , and Jordan . <p> Anera has been working inside Gaza with its own vetted local teams and security guards to provide aid whenever deliveries are permitted . And , of course , the need is endless there , as well . <p> For those who are concerned about the return of Israeli hostages , I recommend the Hostages and Missing Families Forum , which has been helping families of Israeli hostages and lobbying at home and abroad for a hostage release deal for months , even as the Israeli government showed little interest . ( Talk of a hostage deal has recently revived , but it is unclear when or if progress will occur . ) <p> And now that mass murderer and former Syrian President Bashar al-Assad has fled Damascus to Moscow , there will be a massive need for humanitarian aid inside Syria . Here , larger international aid agencies such as Doctors Without Borders , Save the Children , and International Rescue Committeemay be best placed to help , once the situation stabilizes . One note : You must specify that your donation should go to Syria since these large organizations work globally . <p> Just keep in mind the words of the famous precept in both the Talmud and Quran ( too often honored in the breach ) : " Whoever saves a life , it is considered as if he saved an entire world . " 
@@119242509 <p> A private nuclear fallout shelter has long been a perk of the ultrawealthy . Mark Zuckerberg , Kim Kardashian , and Bill Gates have reportedly all invested in luxurious underground bunkers to survive the worst-case scenario of a nuclear war . <p> " We 've definitely seen a spike in customers . After the invasion of Ukraine , my phone rang about every 30 seconds , " says Ron Hubbard , CEO of Atlas Survival Shelters in Sulphur Springs , TX , which designs and builds private bunkers . <p> The market for fallout shelters has increased from an estimated $137 million in 2023 to $175 million in 2030 , according to a report from consulting firm Blue Weave . <p> " My customers are concerned about nuclear war , biological attacks , or any kind of chemical attacks , " says Hubbard . Both the COVID-19 pandemic and the war in Gaza spurred sales . <p> His shelters start at $20,000 and can run into the millions . <h> Are nuclear bunkers necessary ? <p> Many experts say no . Provided a person does n't die in the initial blast , they point out there is a decent chance of survival . However , that survival might not be pretty . <p> Increasingly , average homeowners are investing in a bunker , typically a structure made of steel , buried underground , and equipped with a nuclear and biochemical air filtration system . hectorchristiaen -- stock.adobe.com <p> " In times of extreme stress , like the ones after a nuclear explosion , people become desperate , " says California real estate investor Jameson Tyler Drew , who has sold homes with " old Cold War " bunkers . " Food and water become difficult for most unprepared people to find . " <p> One need only read the accounts of the survivors of Hiroshima and Nagasaki , Japan , after the U.S. dropped nuclear bombs on the cities in 1945 , to know that surviving a nuclear blast is just the tip of the iceberg . <p> Some experts warn that bunkers give the populace a false sense of safety -- and distract them from demanding an end to the buildup of nuclear weapons . <p> " Bunkers are , in fact , not a tool to survive a nuclear war , but a tool to allow a population to psychologically endure the possibility of a nuclear war , " Alicia Sanders-Zakre at the International Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons told the Associated Press . <h> See Also <p> Massachusetts Congressman James McGovern , who has been fighting for nonproliferation for 50 years , agrees . <p> " If we ever get to a point where there 's all-out nuclear war , underground bunkers are n't going to protect people , " he says . " Instead , we ought to be investing our resources and our energy trying to talk about a nuclear weapons freeze , initially . " <h> The end of civil defense <p> " While fallout shelters appear to be experiencing a renaissance , their heyday was unquestionably in the post-World War II years , a literal expression of the Atomic Age , " says Larry Samuel , author of " Home Ownership in America . " <p> " In fact , some real estate entrepreneurs of the 1950s and 1960s believed there could be a mass market for underground homes if they were promoted properly . ' Underground home ' was the preferred term over the decidedly negative ' fallout shelter . ' " <p> Many other countries -- even those that have been in peacetime for decades -- have civil defense mandates , with many public buildings required to have underground safety areas in case of attack . <p> Switzerland , Norway , and Finland , for example , have vast networks of underground bunkers that can accommodate tens of thousands of people . <p> The most high-end bunkers -- designed so people can comfortably live in them for months if not years -- contain all the rooms a regular house would . MoiraM -- stock.adobe.com <p> " There 's no civil defense plan in the U.S. , " laments Hubbard . " If a nuclear bomb hit New York City , it would take everyone out . " <p> In the U.S. , fears of a nuclear bomb have generally been displaced by other fears , such as extreme weather events and mass shooters . <p> But those who are concerned about nuclear annihilation are n't waiting for the government to take action -- they are buying their own bunkers and installing them in their backyards . <p> While FEMA stipulates that each occupant of a bunker must have at least 10 square feet and 6.5 feet of headroom , those with the means also want to bring their above-ground luxuries below ground . They should also consult with their municipality to determine what permits might be needed . <h> See Also <p> The most high-end bunkers -- designed so people can comfortably live in them for months if not years -- contain all the rooms a regular house would . Sometimes much more . <p> Take the Survival Condo condominiums somewhere outside of Kansas City . ( Most people do n't want to advertise the exact locations of their bunkers , lest they be overrun with unwanted guests . ) <p> The condos run from $1.5 million to $4 million . Common areas include an indoor swimming pool , spa , game room , cinema , putting green , gym , hydroponic food production , and a redundant water supply with 75,000-gallon backup tanks . <p> What if you do n't have millions for a nuclear-proof condo ? <h> How to survive a nuclear attack <p> Most experts agree you can survive a nuclear blast by finding shelter as soon as possible . <p> " It will take about 15 minutes for the radioactive fallout to arrive for those a mile or more away from ground zero , " Michael Dillon , a scientist at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory , told the Associated Press . " It 's going to literally be sand falling on your head , and you 're going to want to get out of that situation . You want to go to your most robust building . " <p> " If your home was n't near the epicenter of the blast , the most you 'll have to deal with is the radioactive fallout , " adds Drew . " So long as you do n't expose yourself to this radioactive dust , you should survive . " <p> The market for fallout shelters has increased from an estimated $137 million in 2023 to $175 million in 2030 , according to a report from consulting firm Blue Weave . BlueWeave Consulting <p> He recommends buying an earthquake survival kit , stocking enough food and water for at least two weeks , duct-taping your doors and windows , and keeping dried apple juice powder on hand to " flush out harmful cesium isotopes . " <p> If you must go outside , he recommends tossing your newly radioactive clothes and scrubbing them down with soap and water before reentering your house . <p> Even Hubbard , who says he sells at least a bunker a day , admits that one does n't necessarily need a bunker to survive a nuclear bomb . <p> " You want to go to the lowest-lying level place you can get and you want as much earth as you can get between you and the outside , " he advises . " Nuclear fallout decays at the rate of 90% per day ; after four days , the radiation is at one-thousandth of its strength . You 're going to get that on a hot day with the sun on you . Nuclear war is very survivable if you 're prepared and know what to do . " <h> Video <p> Increasingly , average homeowners are investing in a bunker , typically a structure made of steel , buried underground , and equipped with a nuclear and biochemical air filtration system . hectorchristiaen - stock.adobe.com <p> The most high-end bunkers -- designed so people can comfortably live in them for months if not years -- contain all the rooms a regular house would . MoiraM - stock.adobe.com <p> The market for fallout shelters has increased from an estimated $137 million in 2023 to $175 million in 2030 , according to a report from consulting firm Blue Weave . BlueWeave Consulting <p> Some experts warn that bunkers give the populace a false sense of safety -- and distract them from demanding an end to the buildup of nuclear weapons . Mulderphoto - stock.adobe.com 
@@119242602 <p> First-term Sen. Jon Ossoff ( D-GA ) has a little under two years before Election Day , but he 's already preparing to fend off Gov . Brian Kemp ( R-GA ) , who is rumored to be considering challenging him in 2026 . <p> Upon his election in 2020 , Ossoff made history by becoming the first millennial senator . While Ossoff has voted in line with the Biden administration agenda 97% of the time , he has expressed he would like to work with the Trump administration , calling himself " one of the most bipartisan members of the Senate . " <p> Ossoff won the 2020 Georgia Senate runoff election against then-Sen . David Perdue 50.6% to 49.4% , relying heavily on the votes of swing-state voters to bring him to victory . <p> Now , with rumors of Kemp , a popular term-limited governor who boasts an approval rating of 63% , Ossoff and his team are laying the groundwork to ensure he will win his bid for reelection . <p> " For four years we have been laying the groundwork and are already building the most effective , the most massive and the best resourced effort to empower an overwhelming and victorious coalition in 2026 , " Ossoff said in a statement to the Washington Examiner . " This will be the biggest and most effective turnout effort in the history of Georgia politics . " <p> One of the first major steps Ossoff took was pressuring Rep. Nikema Williams ( D-GA ) to step down as Georgia Democratic Party chairwoman , according to a half-dozen party officials . As Republicans won the White House , the Senate , and the House of Representatives , Democrats across the country are now working to assess what went wrong for them and put the pieces back together in preparation for the midterm elections . <p> Though last month , when asked by a reporter if Ossoff was asking for Williams to step down , the senator did not give a direct answer . <p> " These are ongoing conversations among Democrats in Georgia . I do n't have anything public to add today , " he said . <p> But the Atlanta **28;1161;TOOLONG Ossoff told Williams he wanted her to resign . <p> " I hope this does n't have to become public , but this is something I 'm absolutely planning to pursue , " Williams said Ossoff told her . Allies of Ossoff said that this statement is not word for word but that Ossoff did iterate a similar message to Williams . <p> Georgia was a surprise swing state that delivered huge wins for President Joe Biden and Democrats in 2020 . The state was up for grabs again in 2024 , though voters decided to return to their roots and favored President-elect Donald Trump . <p> Ossoff can look around and recognize that while most voters in the state lean toward the GOP , they supported him once , and he has a chance to keep them on his side . In 2020 , he appealed to voters ' warm feelings toward Israel , though his recent wobbling on his support for the country could hurt him in two years . <p> Writing in the Atlantic Jewish Times in 2020 , Ossoff explained that his Jewish identity has played a major role in his convictions and how he operates in the world . <p> " I am a committed supporter of the State of Israel , " Ossoff wrote . " I have family in Jerusalem , and I am committed to Israel 's security as a homeland for the Jewish people , as I am committed to supporting American diplomatic engagement to negotiate a lasting peace between Israelis and Palestinians . " <p> But a war between Israel and Hamas in Gaza and loud calls from the left wing of his party to stop sending Israel cash and weapons to defend itself has softened his resolve . <p> He voted in favor of a pair of failed resolutions that would limit U.S. weapons sales to Israel . <p> This led to 50 Atlanta establishment Jewish institutions to criticize Ossoff , and he even was chastised by the rabbi of the temple where he celebrated his bar mitzvah , who said Ossoff showed " indifference to the pro-Israel community while granting approval to fringe voices . " <p> At the same time , 100 Jewish Georgians wrote a letter standing behind Ossoff , saying he has " repeatedly stood by Israel in its right to defend itself " and that the vote to restrict arms sales helped advance " regional stability , security and peace . " <p> Ossoff compared his decision to vote in favor of the resolution to the 1982 decision made by then-President Ronald Reagan to block the sale of cluster-type artillery shells to Israel . <p> " And Israel , faced by President Reagan 's ultimatum , adjusted its policy to accommodate America 's demand , " Ossoff said . " The United States remained Israel 's closest ally , and the world kept turning . " <p> While Kemp , who is popular with voters but has a strained relationship with Trump and the party as a whole , has remained mum on whether he is going to run , Ossoff is acknowledging his vulnerabilities and how a popular former governor could exploit them . 
@@119243506 <p> Iran said it will start easing some of the world 's tightest internet restrictions by lifting its ban on WhatsApp and Google Play -- a sign that authorities want to placate domestic opponents as the Islamic Republic faces major economic and foreign-policy challenges . <p> Earlier on Tuesday , Iran 's Supreme Council of Cyberspace approved the lifting of blocks on " certain widely used foreign platforms " according to the state-run Islamic Republic News Agency , which named WhatsApp and Google Play as the first two applications to be unblocked . <p> Since the 2009 protests against the reelection of hardliner Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , social media networks including Facebook , X and YouTube have been banned or restricted by authorities who 've blamed them for facilitating protests and fomenting opposition to the state . <p> Iran 's government has faced criticism for years from ordinary Iranians , Western governments , the United Nations and political activists for its draconian attitude toward the internet . Officials -- most of whom use banned social media sites to run their own public-facing accounts -- often fail to deliver on promises to reduce censorship . Instead , it 's increased significantly over the past 10 years . <p> It 's not clear when Tuesday 's decision will come into effect . IRNA said it was reached by a unanimous vote at a council meeting attended by the head of the judiciary and reformist President Masoud Pezeshkian who 'd pledged to relax internet freedoms for Iranians when he was elected in July . <p> The move comes as the Islamic Republic , already widely unpopular at home following a nationwide 2022 uprising that was brutally suppressed , is locked in a standoff with Israel for supporting Hamas in Gaza and Hezbollah in Lebanon . <p> Both groups -- designated as terrorist organizations by the U.S. and its allies -- have been crippled by Israel 's military response to the October 2023 attacks by Hamas . The ouster of Bashar al-Assad in Syria has also upended Iran 's foreign policy at a time when it 's struggling to keep the lights on for industry and households amid a major fuel and natural-gas crisis . <p> " The process of lifting cyberspace restrictions will be multistaged and ongoing , and it wo n't be limited to the removal of restrictions on one or a few platforms , " IRNA said . <p> Complete internet blackouts have often been imposed on Iranians , including during protests in November 2019 and the 2022 nationwide uprising , which prompted the U.S. government at the time to ease restrictions on internet services to Iran , such as Elon Musk 's Starlink . <p> The Washington-based Freedom House said Iran was among the three least free countries in the world in terms of internet access -- after China and Myanmar -- in its annual " Internet Freedom Scores " ranking . <p> The Spokesman-Review Newspaper <p> Local journalism is essential . <p> Give directly to The Spokesman-Review 's Northwest Passages community forums series -- which helps to offset the costs of several reporter and editor positions at the newspaper -- by using the easy options below . Gifts processed in this system are not tax deductible , but are predominately used to help meet the local financial requirements needed to receive national matching-grant funds . 
@@119243508 <p> TEL AVIV -- Christmas celebrations in the Holy Land have begun , overshadowed by the devastating war in the Gaza Strip . <p> The traditional Christian procession arrived in Bethlehem , the birthplace of Jesus Christ as described in the Bible , in the afternoon . <p> The procession consisted of a convoy of vehicles from Jerusalem led by the highest representative of the Catholic Church in the Holy Land , Cardinal Pierbattista Pizzaballa . <p> The patriarch walked the last stretch of the way to the Church of the Nativity . He was received by Christian representatives . <p> Due to the war in Gaza , which has been going on for a year and a half , the traditional Christmas celebrations in Bethlehem in the Palestinian West Bank are rather subdued , as they were in 2023 . <p> The midnight Mass is to take place as usual , but other public festivities have been abandoned , such as the lighting of a large Christmas tree in the square in front of the Church of the Nativity and musical performances by bands from all over the world . <p> There are hardly any tourists in Bethlehem this year because of the fighting in the region . <p> On the weekend , as a sign of solidarity , Pizzaballa visited the only Catholic church in the Gaza Strip and celebrated a Mass there . <p> The Spokesman-Review Newspaper <p> Local journalism is essential . <p> Give directly to The Spokesman-Review 's Northwest Passages community forums series -- which helps to offset the costs of several reporter and editor positions at the newspaper -- by using the easy options below . Gifts processed in this system are not tax deductible , but are predominately used to help meet the local financial requirements needed to receive national matching-grant funds . 
@@119243900 <p> Khan Younis , Gaza -- From a makeshift kitchen with a sand floor and a nylon roof , and lacking the most basic equipment , Mayess Hamid prepared Christmas cookies this year . <p> Hamid , 31 , has been making cakes and cookies for about 10 years , working at one of Gaza 's largest cake shops before it was destroyed in Israel 's continuing war on the besieged enclave . <p> Like many in Gaza , she lost her job when the bakery she worked at was bombed . <p> " I wanted to start the year with optimism and make Christmas cookies to distribute to the children around me in the camp , " she says as she kneads . <p> " The war turned our lives upside down . I lost my income , and my home was destroyed , " says Hamid , who has been displaced nine times since her family left Zeitoun , east of Gaza City , and has now settled in al-Mawasi in Khan Younis in the southern Gaza Strip . <p> " My children are excited , waiting eagerly and trying to help , especially with decorations , " she adds , arranging the cookies in a baking tray . <p> Making cookies was challenging because of basic food shortages that are so severe that some parts of Gaza are in famine . <p> Advertisement <p> Israel has largely blocked the entry of aid and commercial shipments since the beginning of the war . <p> Drawing from her experience , she substitutes unavailable materials with things she can find . <p> " Before the war , I decorated cakes with ready-made sugar paste . Now , I use a mix of liquid cheese and powdered sugar , and it works , " she says . <p> Lacking Christmas cookie cutters , Hamid drew stencils on paper using her phone , cut them out , and shaped the dough by hand using a knife . <p> " Even simple tasks like baking cookies have become challenges during the war , " she says , arranging the cookies and preparing to bake in a nearby clay oven the whole camp relies on . <p> As the second batch of cookies bakes , Hamid begins to decorate the first inside her small tent . <p> " The war may have taken my home and life as I knew it , but not my passion for decorating and attention to detail , " she says , glancing around her tidy tent . <p> While trying to bring a festive feel to the displacement camp , Hamid can not hide her sorrow that the world celebrates Christmas as usual , while Gaza endures a second year of war and devastation . <p> " We try to smile , but our wounds run deep , and there is little we can do . We feel forgotten . " <p> At the same time , she still clings to hope that this Christmas will bring peace . Her sole Christmas wish is for the war to end . <p> " Just let the war stop . Let the killing and destruction end so we can live in peace with our children , " she says . <p> Advertisement <p> Hamid works in her makeshift kitchen in the displacement camp . Abdelhakim Abu Riash/Al Jazeera <p> Advertisement <p> She uses paper stencils to guide her in cutting out the cookies , because she ca n't find any cookie cutters in the market . Abdelhakim Abu Riash/Al Jazeera <p> As she prepares the cookies , her two children , five-year-old Misk and three-year-old Yazid , along with other displaced children , gather around to participate in the fun . Abdelhakim Abu Riash/Al Jazeera <p> Hamid takes her pan of cookies over to the only oven that the entire camp relies on . Abdelhakim Abu Riash/Al Jazeera <p> People from all over the camp gather at the clay oven to get their baking done . Abdelhakim Abu Riash/Al Jazeera <p> Hamid gets her turn and can put her pan of cookies in to bake . Abdelhakim Abu Riash/Al Jazeera <p> Advertisement <p> " Finding ingredients was difficult . My husband and I kept searching for days in different markets for food colouring , cream , vanilla , and butter ... flour and oil are scarce , and prices are skyrocketing if it is available , " Hamid explains . Abdelhakim Abu Riash/Al Jazeera 
@@119255706 <h> John Bolton : Trump second term poses ' much higher chance ' of major international crisis <h> Share this : <p> In this file photo , U.S. President Donald Trump , left , is flanked by national security adviser John Bolton , right during a press conference at NATO headquarters in Brussels , Belgium , Thursday , July 12 , 2018 ( AP Photo/Markus Schreiber ) <p> The prominent foreign policy hawk said Trump 's lack of focus and inability to stick to policy decisions could trigger an overseas disaster . <p> " The risk of an international crisis ... is much more likely in a second Trump term , " Bolton said in a Christmas Eve interview with the Guardian . " Given Trump 's inability to focus on coherent decision making , I 'm very worried about about how that might look . " <p> Bolton , who served for 17 months in the first Trump administration , scoffed at Trump 's vow to quickly end conflicts in Ukraine and Gaza . <p> " ( Putin ) believes he knows how to play Trump , that Trump 's an easy mark , " Bolton said . " If you do n't understand how the person you 're talking about on the other side views you , that 's a real lack of situational awareness that can only cause trouble . " <p> Bolton admitted that he wrongly believed Trump would become a more disciplined leader after he was first elected to the White House in 2016 . <p> Those hopes were dashed once Bolton started working alongside Trump and observed him firsthand . <p> " He does n't know much about foreign policy . He 's not a big reader , " Bolton said . " He does n't think these facts are important . He thinks he looks the other guy across the table in the eye and they make a deal and that 's what 's important . " <p> During the presidential campaign , Bolton said he could n't support Trump but refused to endorse Kamala Harris either . <p> Despite the harsh criticism , Bolton praised Trump 's picks of Sen. Marco Rubio to be Secretary of State and Rep. Mike Waltz for national security adviser . He slammed ex-Rep . Tulsi Gabbard , Trump 's nominee for director of national intelligence , as " really dangerous . " <p> Bolton has been isolated in Republican power circles as Trump has pushed the party far away from his muscular foreign policy views . <p> But Bolton predicted that the GOP as a whole will eventually return to its hawkish roots . <p> " Trump is an aberration and , when he leaves the political scene , the party will snap back , " Bolton said . 
@@119258015 <p> " As followers of Jesus Christ , we consider this to be both a duty and a joyful privilege , " church President Russell M. Nelson and his counselors , Dallin H. Oaks and Henry B. Eyring , in the governing First Presidency , said in a joint statement . " We gratefully acknowledge the selfless contributions of time and means from church members , friends and other trusted organizations that enable this work to progress and expand . " <h> Aid by the numbers <p> ( The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints ) Farmers harvest rice in their fields at daybreak in Gbarnga , Liberia , on Friday , Jan. 20 , 2024 . They often sing as they harvest to demonstrate to unity and harmony within the community . The church reported giving $1.3 billion in charitable aid in 2023 . <p> Here 's a snapshot of how the church provided aid last year : <p> * $1.36 billion in total . <p> * 6.2 million volunteer hours . <p> * 4,119 individual projects . <p> * 191 countries and territories served . <p> * 11,368 welfare and self-reliance missionaries . <p> * 5,538 job placements supplied . <p> " These figures are , of course , an incomplete report of our giving and helping . They do not include the personal services our members give individually as they minister to one another in called positions and voluntary member-to-member service , " Oaks said . " And our summary makes no mention of what our members do individually through innumerable charitable organizations not formally connected with our church . " <p> Of the projects the church tackled last year : <p> * 601 provided health care . <p> * 530 addressed food insecurity . <p> * 415 supplied emergency relief . <p> * 206 helped secure clean water and sanitation . <p> " The church 's partnership is ... transforming lives , " Evelyn Mere , program director for WaterAid Nigeria , said in the report , " and ensuring no one is left behind . " <h> Empowering families <p> ( Anny Djahova Catholic Relief Services ) The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is supporting the efforts of Catholic Relief Services in various countries to provide girls and young women with nutrition education and counseling , micronutrient supplements and nutritious foods . The church reported giving $1.3 billion in charitable aid in 2023 . <p> Serving women and children was a major goal for the faith during the past year . According to the report , the church prioritized child nutrition globally , mostly by donating to international nongovernmental organizations such as Save the Children and the World Food Program . The Utah-based faith also worked to boost maternal health care , especially through a collaboration with UNICEF in countries like the Central African Republic and Mozambique . <p> " We want to empower families ... with greater understanding and resources , " President Camille N. Johnson , head of the nearly 8 million-strong women 's Relief Society , said in the report . " Loving parents are better equipped to make changes that can have a lasting impact . " <p> The faith also provided help in the latest Israel-Hamas war . Through coordination with other relief agencies , the report noted , it gave " significant " funding for critical physical and mental health care in Israel and Gaza . <p> The church also teamed up with other aid groups to assist refugees and immigrants worldwide . In Sacramento , California , for instance , the faith helped to buy 500 foam mats and other supplies for refugees who had been sleeping on the floor . <p> " I salute the people who in small , personal ways , " apostle Patrick Kearon said , " go and find those people on the margins -- those who hurt , those whose pains are not understood , the hungry , the lonely , the downtrodden -- and do their best to take care of them . " <p> In North America , Latter-day Saint aid focused on homelessness , food insecurity and abuse . In Montreal , the church donated more than $750,000 to help a homeless shelter bolster its emergency services . <p> The faith played a role in Maui 's recovery from devastating wildfires last year by providing emergency shelter in its meetinghouses and handing out hotel vouchers . It also sent psychologists to the island to help those affected by the fires . <p> On the environmental front , the church provided 140,000 trees in Mongolia , installed solar panels on many of its meetinghouses and began switching to 100%-recycled cups for use in its sacrament , or Communion . <p> Closer to home , Utah 's predominant religion also donated 5,700 water shares -- or about 20,000 acre-feet of water -- to help preserve the Great Salt Lake . <p> " We have an obligation to be good stewards , " said L. Todd Budge , second counselor in the Presiding Bishopric , which oversees the church 's vast real estate , financial , investment and charitable operations , " to pass to future generations an Earth better than we found it . " <p> The report highlighted the church 's JustServe program that allows members to set up their own , smaller volunteer projects , including one from a 10-year-old named Evan who ran a donation drive that netted 702 jars of jam for a food bank . 
@@119260800 <h> Follow Us <h> Israeli military says its troops inadvertently led to hostage deaths <p> This combination of six undated photos shows hostages , from top left , Hersh Goldberg-Polin , Ori Danino , Eden Yerushalmi , from bottom left , Almog Sarusi , Alexander Lobanov , and Carmel Gat , who were held hostage by Hamas militants in Gaza . <p> Share <p> Israeli military says its troops inadvertently led to hostage deaths <p> share <p> The presence of Israeli troops inadvertently contributed to the deaths in August of six hostages held in Gaza , according to the results of an investigation by the Israeli military released Tuesday . <p> The six hostages , including Israeli American Hersh Goldberg-Polin , were taken by Hamas militants during the October 7 , 2023 , raid on Israel . They were killed by Hamas after nearly 330 days in captivity . <p> The military 's report found that " ground activities in the area , although gradual and cautious , had a circumstantial influence on the terrorists ' decision " to kill the six hostages . <p> Their bodies were found 48 to 72 hours later in a tunnel in late August , the report said . <p> The military was operating in that area of southern Gaza because the likelihood that hostages were there was considered medium to low , the report said . <p> " The investigation published tonight proves once again that the return of all hostages will only be possible through a deal , " the Hostages and Missing Families Forum said in a statement on Tuesday . <p> FILE - Israeli soldiers stand at the entrance of a tunnel where the military says six Israeli hostages were recently killed by Hamas militants , in the southern Gaza Strip , Sept. 13 , 2024 . <p> Gaza hospital evacuation <p> The Israeli military forced the evacuation of the Indonesian Hospital in northern Gaza , and many patients , some of them on foot , arrived at another hospital miles away in Gaza City , the enclave 's health ministry said Tuesday . <p> The Indonesian Hospital is one of the few still partially functioning hospitals left in Gaza , on its northern edge , which has been under intense Israeli military pressure for almost three months . <p> FILE - Wounded Palestinians lie on the floor as they are assisted at the Indonesian Hospital amid an Israeli air and ground offensive , in the northern Gaza Strip , Nov. 16 , 2023 . <p> Israel says its operation around the three northern Gaza communities surrounding the hospital is targeting Hamas militants . But Palestinians accuse Israel of trying to create a buffer zone by depopulating northern Gaza . Israel denies that accusation . <p> Meanwhile , in other parts of Gaza , Israeli bombardments killed at least nine Palestinians in four separate military strikes on Tuesday , according to medics . <p> And in the Israeli-occupied West Bank , Israeli forces killed at least eight Palestinians in an early morning raid on Tuesday on a refugee camp near the city of Tulkarm , according to Palestinian and Israeli officials . <p> The Israeli military said it opened fire after its soldiers were fired upon . It said some uninvolved civilians were harmed . Israel has carried out several raids on the West Bank during the Gaza war , killing 800 Palestinians since October 2023 , according to Palestinian health authorities . <p> Another ongoing problem in Gaza is the food supply . Israel has failed to crack down on armed gangs attacking food convoys in the enclave , despite a pledge to do so in mid-October to help prevent famine in the territory , Reuters reported . It cited three United Nations and U.S. officials familiar with the matter . <p> The commitment was made behind closed doors but appeared to be a major development because Israel had been reluctant to improve the severe humanitarian crisis in Gaza since the war broke out more than a year ago . <p> An Israeli military spokesperson declined to comment to Reuters about what was agreed upon in October and what was being done to prevent looting . <p> " Israel has taken significant steps to allow the maximum possible scope of aid to Gaza , " the spokesperson said . <p> Earlier on Tuesday , Israel 's military said it intercepted a missile that was launched from Yemen . <p> The missile prompted air sirens but was destroyed before entering Israeli territory , the military said . <p> The Yemen-based Houthi militants have fired scores of missiles at Israel since Hamas launched its attack on Israel in October 2023 , sparking the war in the Gaza Strip . <p> Israel 's response has included airstrikes on Houthi targets , and on Monday , Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz warned that Houthi leaders would face the same fate as the leaders from Hamas and the Lebanon-based Hezbollah militant group who were killed in Israeli strikes . <p> Hamas , Hezbollah and the Houthis are all backed by Iran , and all have been designated as terror groups by the United States and others . <p> Katz on Monday confirmed Israel was responsible for the August explosion in Tehran that killed Hamas political leader Ismail Haniyeh . Israel was widely believed to have been behind the attack , but Monday 's comments appeared to be Israel 's first public acknowledgment . <p> Israeli forces killed a number of Hezbollah leaders in recent months amid intensified fighting in southern and eastern Lebanon . That conflict has cooled with a month-old ceasefire , while negotiators including Egypt , the United States and Qatar have been working to try to achieve an elusive halt in fighting in Gaza . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said in a speech Monday in the Knesset that there has been " some progress " in the ongoing negotiations to secure the release of Israeli hostages held in Gaza . <p> " Everything we are doing can not be disclosed , " Netanyahu said . " I wish to say cautiously that there has been some progress , and we will not stop acting until we bring them all home . " <p> Hamas militants killed 1,200 people in their October 7 , 2023 , terror attack on southern Israel and took about 250 others hostage . There are still around 100 hostages still being held in Gaza , though at least one-third are believed to be dead . <p> Israel 's counteroffensive in Gaza has killed more than 45,300 people , according to the Gaza health ministry . The ministry does not differentiate between civilians and fighters in its count . <p> Netanyahu also said Monday that he wants to sign new peace agreements with Arab countries , similar to the 2020 Abraham Accords negotiated by the U.S. for Israel and several Arab countries . <p> " Moderate Arab countries view Israel as a regional power and a potential ally , " Netanyahu said . " I intend to seize this opportunity to the fullest . " <p> Some information for this story came from The Associated Press , Agence France-Presse and Reuters . <p> The Voice of America provides news and information in more than 40 languages to an estimated weekly audience of over 326 million people . Stories with the VOA News byline are the work of multiple VOA journalists and may contain information from wire service reports . 
@@119275511 <h> Pope calls for peace on Christmas as church begins Jubilee year celebrations <p> Pope Francis greeted the crowd from the main balcony of St. Peter 's basilica after his semi-annual message and blessing to the city and the world as part of Christmas celebrations , at St Peter 's Square in the Vatican.TIZIANA FABI/AFP via Getty Images <p> As Christians around the world celebrated Christmas on Wednesday , Pope Francis called for peace , asking that cease-fires be put in place where wars rage , and that world leaders forgive the debts " that burden the poorest countries . " <p> Speaking to the thousands gathered in St. Peter 's Square in Vatican City for his Christmas blessing and message , Francis returned to the topic of two military conflicts that have dominated his thoughts -- and his public remarks -- for many months . <p> In Ukraine , he called for " the boldness needed to open the door to negotiation and to gestures of dialogue and encounter , in order to achieve a just and lasting peace . " <p> And he urged that " the sound of arms be silenced in the Middle East . " His thoughts , he said , were with Christians in the Gaza Strip , " where the humanitarian situation is extremely grave " for all who live there . Francis urged the delivery of aid " to the people worn out by hunger and by war " in Gaza , as well as a cease-fire and the release of the hostages who have been held since the Hamas-led attack on Israel 14 months ago . <p> He made the remarks a day after the start of the Roman Catholic Church 's Holy Year , known as a Jubilee , which takes place every quarter century . On Tuesday evening , Francis opened the Holy Door in St. Peter 's Basilica so that the first pilgrims could go through . Millions more are expected to follow over the year . <p> Advertisement <p> Hope is the theme of the Jubilee year , and on Wednesday Francis invited " every individual , and all peoples and nations , to find the courage needed to walk through that door , to become pilgrims of hope , to silence the sound of arms and overcome divisions . " <p> Holy doors will be opened in Rome 's main basilicas and also in the city 's Rebibbia prison , which the pope is expected to visit on Thursday . Jesus awaits all people , Francis said . " He awaits prisoners who , everything notwithstanding , are still children of God . " <p> The pope 's solemn blessing and message , titled " To the City and to the World , " is delivered twice a year , and on Wednesday Francis spoke from a balcony on the facade of the basilica . The tens of thousands packing the square cheered loudly when the pope appeared . <p> Advertisement <p> Vatican and Italian bands played the Italian national anthem and the pontifical anthem . Francis is the sovereign of the Vatican City State . <p> In his Christmas message , Francis pleaded for peace and dialogue around the world , citing conflicts including those in Lebanon , Myanmar , Syria , and the Horn of Africa . He spoke of " the devastating effects of climate change , resulting in the loss of life and the displacement of millions of people . " He asked that hope touch " the families of thousands of children who are dying from an outbreak of measles in the Democratic Republic of Congo . " <p> And he prayed that the Jubilee , a moment of faith and reconciliation , would " be an opportunity to tear down all walls of separation , the ideological walls that so often mark political life . " <p> In his Christmas Eve homily on Tuesday , Francis also focused on hope , saying that it " calls us to become pilgrims in search of truth , dreamers who never tire , women and men open to being challenged by God 's dream of a new world where peace and justice reign . " <p> Francis urged the faithful to get out of their comfort zone and think of others . Hope calls people to be " bold , responsible , and compassionate , " he said . " All of us have received the gift and task of bringing hope wherever hope has been lost , lives broken , promises unkept , dreams shattered , and hearts overwhelmed by adversity . " <p> The opening of the Holy Door and Christmas celebrations kick off what will be a challenging year for Francis , who turned 88 this month and now habitually switches between a wheelchair and a cane during public appearances . Dozens of events are scheduled throughout the year , and Romans are girding for a large influx of pilgrims on top of the 20 million tourists who visited the city this year . <p> Advertisement <p> For some years now , Francis ' health has been a source of concern . The pontiff was hospitalized for colon surgery in 2021 , and in 2023 for a respiratory infection and a hernia . <p> After Francis spoke , the bands again played the anthems , and then marched under his gaze . People in the crowd cheered : " Viva il papa " -- " Long live the pope . " 
@@119275908 <h> War-torn Holy Land is an echo of first Christmas <h> We need a holiday more sturdy than inflatable Frostys . <p> Worshippers pray in the Church of the Nativity , where Christians believe Jesus Christ was born , ahead of Christmas in the West Bank city of Bethlehem , on Tuesday , Dec. 17 , 2024 . ( Mahmoud Illean / AP ) <p> For the second straight year , Christmas looks to be quiet in Bethlehem , if not peaceful . Reuters reports that Manger Square in front of the Church of the Nativity is deserted , its souvenir shops closed against the rockets and rifles that now festoon the Holy Land in place of the traditional Christmas Tree missing from the square . <p> The promise of a cease-fire in the Gaza war , which is leaking out to the West Bank , Lebanon and even as far as Iran , has emboldened a few intrepid Christians to hang wreaths and light hopeful candles . On Nov. 22 , Christian leaders in Jerusalem reversed last year 's directive for churches to forgo public holiday displays . But the birthplace of Jesus is still too dangerous for merrymaking . We may have peace on Earth someday , in some forgotten outpost , but not this year . And not in the place where it was promised . <p> Advertisement <p> And that is precisely why we have Christmas . As contributing columnist Abby McCloskey reminds us nearby , the story of Christmas only matters if the kingdom of heaven interrupts the man-made cycle of hell on Earth . <p> Advertisement <p> Bethlehem has never been a peaceful place . The first Christmas story involved religious oppression , occupying forces , widespread government-enforced infanticide and violent authoritarianism . Shortly after Jesus ' birth , the Holy Family fled the continent , crossing unsecured borders as refugees . <p> In fact , the whole Christian story , like that of many religions , is about war : a cosmic battle between good and evil . And for Abrahamic faiths , that war leaks out of the spiritual realm into geopolitical battlefields -- places with embassies and supply chains and shuttered souvenir shops -- places you can find on Google maps . <p> Christmas , after all , is the celebration of an incursion behind enemy lines . A promise of heavenly peace sneaking into a dirty world at war . A savior who would leave behind eternal security to seed an insurrection against a world stubbornly wrapped in razor wire . <p> Advertisement <p> It 's precisely when peace seems feasible -- when wars are n't raging and mothers are n't mourning and the poor are n't oppressed and the weak are n't overlooked -- that we can start to imagine a world in which humankind might finally get to the bottom of things , might architect something resembling peace on earth , or at least get the arrow pointing in the right direction . <p> Christmases like this one , with 45,000 freshly dead in the land called holy , remind us that we 're out of our depths . <p> If our Christmas celebration is only about a well-cooked ham and a pile of shredded gift wrap , it wo n't be sturdy enough to meet our needs . But , for those who believe , Christmas 2024 might remind us that there is one who is . <p> Dallas Morning News editorials are written by the paper 's Editorial Board and serve as the voice and view of the paper . The board considers a broad range of topics and is overseen by the Editorial Page Editor . 
@@119276402 <h> Biden to leave White House with little fanfare <p> Editor 's note : President Biden commuted the sentences of 37 people on federal death row to life in prison . <p> President Biden is readying to leave the White House with little fanfare . <p> Democrats are eager to turn the page on a poor year in which they lost again to President-elect Trump , who has swallowed up much of the spotlight well before he 's taken office for a second time . <p> Biden for his part has embarked on several major foreign trips since the election . He also pardoned his son , is working on reaching a ceasefire deal in Gaza , upping assistance to Ukraine and working the holiday circuit while delivering speeches in and around Washington . <p> But the president 's public presence has hardly registered while Trump 's cascade of announcements for his second Cabinet , a network television interview and his first press conference since winning the election at his Mar-a-Lago residence in Florida take up much of the media atmosphere . <p> That 's aside from Trump and his allies injecting themselves into onerous government funding negotiations at the year 's end , in which Biden and the White House were largely silent . That chorus was instead largely led by House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries ( D-N.Y . ) . <p> Republicans said Biden 's absence from major moments is par for the course -- in addition to his avoiding the press at almost all costs . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> " He 's been disappeared for a long time . We saw him go to Africa , did n't take any questions that anybody could see and was largely shielded from the press . We know he 's going to go to Italy , presumably , media will have the same amount of access , " GOP strategist Doug Heye said . <p> Democrats , too , have done little to bolster the leader of their party , instead expressing anticipation for Biden to leave office , even if they do n't like who is coming next . <p> " There 's just such a great level of sort of disappointment on the way this presidency is ending . It 's almost like a resignation at this point , " a Democratic lobbyist said . <p> " Among Democrats , nobody 's looking forward to Donald Trump being president , but everybody 's ready for the Biden presidency to be done . " <p> Jon Favreau , a former President Obama speechwriter , said Trump 's press conference highlighted a notion that Biden was absent from the public stage -- despite the fact that Biden himself was delivering a speech at the Labor Department while Trump was announcing a $100 billion investment from SoftBank . <p> " It was more or less a standard presidential policy announcement , the main difference being : Trump is n't president yet . A fact that 's getting easier and easier to forget as Joe Biden seems to be disappearing from the public stage as his term comes to an end , " Favreau said on his " Pod Save America " podcast . <p> Favreau and his co-hosts also noted Trump 's attendance at the Army-Navy game earlier in December , highlighting that Biden had never attended . Trump once again put himself in the media spotlight , in part by the entourage he had , including his embattled Defense secretary nominee , Pete Hegseth . <p> Some Democrats said they are unbothered by Trump stealing the spotlight in the final month , noting that he is n't acting inappropriately and appears more measured than eight years ago . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Others note that Obama stole the media 's attention in 2008 when he was first elected as former President George W. Bush was moving out of the White House . <p> The fact that Trump is acting like president before he 's officially in office , one longtime Democratic donor and bundler called more of " a media issue " than an actual issue . <p> " I have n't seen much of anything that he 's done that 's objectionable . He 's getting people to invest in United States , that 's a good thing . He is meeting with foreign leaders . When other people win elections , they often take calls with foreign leaders . I 'm sure the conversations are not too different in person than on the phone , " the source said . " If he acts inappropriately , it would be troublesome but he seems to be more measured than he was eight years ago . " <p> Democratic supporters are left soured by Biden 's remaining tenure . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> " I think people , including probably a lot of people in the White House , are just ready for it to be over . The administration accomplished a lot , but the most important thing was winning and we did n't win , " added the longtime Democratic donor and bundler . <p> The White House continues to work behind the scenes on two major foreign fronts when it comes to upping assistance to Ukraine and trying to reach a ceasefire agreement to end the fighting in Gaza . <p> But Trump again has garnered more attention for some of the meetings he 's having with foreign leaders , including Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau after threatening tariffs all the while joking that he would make Canada the 51st state . <p> Adam Abrams , a communications official in the Obama White House , argued that Biden can still command attention in the final days of the presidency to define his legacy on his terms if he opts to do so using his bully pulpit . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> " President Biden can and will make full use of the bully pulpit to define his historic legacy , detailing all that he 's achieved , the remarkable consistency of his values and breadth of his accomplishments . After all , as the president , he does n't need to compete for the media 's , or the public 's attention -- he can command it , " said Abrams , a partner at Seven Letter . <p> " While the frenzy continues with the Trump transition and the year-end funding battle on Capitol Hill , President Biden is actively reinforcing his record by using the final stretch to make progress on his core priorities , " Abrams said . <p> Biden has commanded such attention -- albeit not for the most positive reasons . <p> He caused an uproar among Democrats again when he announced he would pardon his son Hunter Biden after insisting for months that he would n't do so . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> The move left Democrats " disgusted " and " totally " pissed off with Biden World overall , sources told The Hill . <p> That was on top of the feelings many Democrats already had about Biden , which was that he should have opted not to run for reelection or should have left the 2024 race sooner ; Vice President Harris was left with only about 100 days to run against Trump before losing to him decisively . <p> Democrats had an upsetting year overall , between losing the White House , Senate and not flipping the House . <p> Ivan Zapien , a former official at the Democratic National Committee , described the end-of-year feeling as less centered on Biden and more about disappointment overall among Democrats . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> " Losing is not fun , and I think you are seeing not fun play out across the Democratic Party spectrum , " Zapien said . " I would not call it Biden fatigue -- it is more of a , ' well that sucked , rest up for the following one ' feeling . " <p> Copyright 2024 Nexstar Media , Inc . All rights reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten , or redistributed. 
@@119276700 <p> Pope Francis waves before delivering the Urbi et Orbi ( Latin for ' to the city and to the world ' ) Christmas ' day blessing from the main balcony of St. Peter 's Basilica at the Vatican , Wednesday , Dec. 25 , 2024 . <p> Pope Francis sits before delivering the Urbi et Orbi ( Latin for ' to the city and to the world ' ) Christmas ' day blessing from the main balcony of St. Peter 's Basilica at the Vatican , Wednesday , Dec. 25 , 2024 . <p> Pope Francis looks on after delivering the Urbi et Orbi ( Latin for ' to the city and to the world ' ) Christmas ' day blessing from the main balcony of St. Peter 's Basilica at the Vatican , Wednesday , Dec. 25 , 2024 . <p> A man stops in prayer as he walks through the Holy Door of St.Peter 's Basilica at the Vatican , Wednesday , Dec. 25 , 2024 , after it was opened by Pope Francis on Christmas Eve marking the start of the Catholic 2025 Jubilee . <p> Faithful walk through the Holy Door of St.Peter 's Basilica at the Vatican , Wednesday , Dec. 25 , 2024 , after it was opened by Pope Francis on Christmas Eve marking the start of the Catholic 2025 Jubilee . <p> Faithful walk through the Holy Door of St.Peter 's Basilica at the Vatican , Wednesday , Dec. 25 , 2024 , after it was opened by Pope Francis on Christmas Eve marking the start of the Catholic 2025 Jubilee . <p> Faithful arrive to walk through the Holy Door of St.Peter 's Basilica at the Vatican , Wednesday , Dec. 25 , 2024 , after it was opened by Pope Francis on Christmas Eve marking the start of the Catholic 2025 Jubilee . <p> Faithful walk through the Holy Door of St.Peter 's Basilica at the Vatican , Wednesday , Dec. 25 , 2024 , after it was opened by Pope Francis on Christmas Eve marking the start of the Catholic 2025 Jubilee . <p> Faithful walk through the Holy Door of St. Peter 's Basilica at the Vatican , Wednesday , Dec. 25 , 2024 , after it was opened by Pope Francis on Christmas Eve marking the start of the Catholic 2025 Jubilee . <p> Faithful take photos as they arrive to walk through the Holy Door of St. Peter 's Basilica at the Vatican , Wednesday , Dec. 25 , 2024 , after it was opened by Pope Francis on Christmas Eve marking the start of the Catholic 2025 Jubilee . <p> Faithful arrive to walk through the Holy Door of St.Peter 's Basilica at the Vatican , Wednesday , Dec. 25 , 2024 , after it was opened by Pope Francis on Christmas Eve marking the start of the Catholic 2025 Jubilee . <p> Latin Patriarch Pierbattista Pizzaballa leads the Christmas midnight Mass at the Church of the Nativity traditionally believed to be the birthplace of Jesus , in the West Bank city of Bethlehem , Wednesday Dec. 25 , 2024 . <p> A nun holds a child to light a candle before the Christmas morning Mass at the Chapel of Saint Catherine , traditionally believed to be the birthplace of Jesus , in the West Bank city of Bethlehem , Wednesday , Dec. 25 , 2024 . <p> Latin Patriarch Pierbattista Pizzaballa , center , leads the Christmas morning Mass at the Chapel of Saint Catherine , traditionally believed to be the birthplace of Jesus , in the West Bank city of Bethlehem , Wednesday , Dec. 25 , 2024 . <h> Pope urges ' all people of all nations ' to silence arms and overcome divisions in Christmas address <h> Pope Francis in his traditional Christmas message has urged " all people of all nations " to find courage during this Holy Year " to silence the sounds of arms and overcome divisions " plaguing the world , from the Holy Land to Ukraine , Africa to Asia <p> Pope Francis waves before delivering the Urbi et Orbi ( Latin for ' to the city and to the world ' ) Christmas ' day blessing from the main balcony of St. Peter 's Basilica at the Vatican , Wednesday , Dec. 25 , 2024 . <p> Andrew Medichini - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Pope Francis delivers the Urbi et Orbi ( Latin for ' to the city and to the world ' ) Christmas ' day blessing from the main balcony of St. Peter 's Basilica at the Vatican , Wednesday , Dec. 25 , 2024 . <p> Andrew Medichini - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Pope Francis delivers the Urbi et Orbi ( Latin for ' to the city and to the world ' ) Christmas ' day blessing from the main balcony of St. Peter 's Basilica at the Vatican , Wednesday , Dec. 25 , 2024 . <p> Andrew Medichini - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Pope Francis delivers the Urbi et Orbi ( Latin for ' to the city and to the world ' ) Christmas ' day blessing from the main balcony of St. Peter 's Basilica at the Vatican , Wednesday , Dec. 25 , 2024 . <p> Andrew Medichini - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Pope Francis sits before delivering the Urbi et Orbi ( Latin for ' to the city and to the world ' ) Christmas ' day blessing from the main balcony of St. Peter 's Basilica at the Vatican , Wednesday , Dec. 25 , 2024 . <p> Andrew Medichini - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Pope Francis looks on after delivering the Urbi et Orbi ( Latin for ' to the city and to the world ' ) Christmas ' day blessing from the main balcony of St. Peter 's Basilica at the Vatican , Wednesday , Dec. 25 , 2024 . <p> Andrew Medichini - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> A man stops in prayer as he walks through the Holy Door of St.Peter 's Basilica at the Vatican , Wednesday , Dec. 25 , 2024 , after it was opened by Pope Francis on Christmas Eve marking the start of the Catholic 2025 Jubilee . <p> Andrew Medichini - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Faithful walk through the Holy Door of St.Peter 's Basilica at the Vatican , Wednesday , Dec. 25 , 2024 , after it was opened by Pope Francis on Christmas Eve marking the start of the Catholic 2025 Jubilee . <p> Andrew Medichini - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Swiss Guards march in front of St. Peter 's Basilica at the Vatican , Wednesday , Dec. 25 , 2024 . <p> Andrew Medichini - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Faithful walk through the Holy Door of St.Peter 's Basilica at the Vatican , Wednesday , Dec. 25 , 2024 , after it was opened by Pope Francis on Christmas Eve marking the start of the Catholic 2025 Jubilee . <p> Andrew Medichini - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Swiss Guards march in front of St. Peter 's Basilica at the Vatican , Wednesday , Dec. 25 , 2024 . <p> Andrew Medichini - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Rabbi Yehuda Teichtal , right , and Rabbi Shmuel Segal , left , watch the set-up of a giant Hanukkah Menorah by the Jewish Chabad Educational Center ahead of the Jewish Hanukkah holiday , in front of the Brandenburg Gate at the Pariser Platz in Berlin , Germany , Monday , Dec. 23 , 2024 . <p> Christians attend the Christmas midnight Mass at the Church of the Nativity traditionally believed to be the birthplace of Jesus , in the West Bank city of Bethlehem , Tuesday Dec. 24 , 2024 . <p> Alaa Badarneh - pool , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Faithful arrive to walk through the Holy Door of St.Peter 's Basilica at the Vatican , Wednesday , Dec. 25 , 2024 , after it was opened by Pope Francis on Christmas Eve marking the start of the Catholic 2025 Jubilee . <p> Andrew Medichini - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Faithful walk through the Holy Door of St.Peter 's Basilica at the Vatican , Wednesday , Dec. 25 , 2024 , after it was opened by Pope Francis on Christmas Eve marking the start of the Catholic 2025 Jubilee . <p> Andrew Medichini - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Faithful walk through the Holy Door of St. Peter 's Basilica at the Vatican , Wednesday , Dec. 25 , 2024 , after it was opened by Pope Francis on Christmas Eve marking the start of the Catholic 2025 Jubilee . <p> Andrew Medichini - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Faithful take photos as they arrive to walk through the Holy Door of St. Peter 's Basilica at the Vatican , Wednesday , Dec. 25 , 2024 , after it was opened by Pope Francis on Christmas Eve marking the start of the Catholic 2025 Jubilee . <p> Andrew Medichini - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Faithful arrive to walk through the Holy Door of St.Peter 's Basilica at the Vatican , Wednesday , Dec. 25 , 2024 , after it was opened by Pope Francis on Christmas Eve marking the start of the Catholic 2025 Jubilee . <p> Andrew Medichini - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Houses are seen along the mountain as a cross stands over the Greek Orthodox convent Saint Takla on Christmas Eve in Maaloula , some 60 km northern Damascus , Syria , Tuesday , Dec. 24 , 2024 . <p> Leo Correa - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Fireworks burst over Saydnaya Convent during the lighting of the Christmas tree , in Saydnaya town on the outskirts of Damascus , Syria , Tuesday , Dec. 24 , 2024 . <p> Hussein Malla - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Latin Patriarch Pierbattista Pizzaballa leads the Christmas midnight Mass at the Church of the Nativity traditionally believed to be the birthplace of Jesus , in the West Bank city of Bethlehem , Wednesday Dec. 25 , 2024 . <p> Alaa Badarneh - pool , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> A nun holds a child to light a candle before the Christmas morning Mass at the Chapel of Saint Catherine , traditionally believed to be the birthplace of Jesus , in the West Bank city of Bethlehem , Wednesday , Dec. 25 , 2024 . <p> Matias Delacroix - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Latin Patriarch Pierbattista Pizzaballa , center , leads the Christmas morning Mass at the Chapel of Saint Catherine , traditionally believed to be the birthplace of Jesus , in the West Bank city of Bethlehem , Wednesday , Dec. 25 , 2024 . <p> VATICAN CITY ( AP ) -- Pope Francis in his traditional Christmas message on Wednesday urged " all people of all nations " to find courage during this Holy Year " to silence the sounds of arms and overcome divisions " plaguing the world , from the Middle East to Ukraine , Africa to Asia . <p> The pontiff 's " Urbi et Orbi " -- " To the City and the World " -- address serves as a summary of the woes facing the world this year . As Christmas coincided with the start of the 2025 Holy Year celebration that he dedicated to hope , Francis called for broad reconciliation , " even ( with ) our enemies . " <p> " I invite every individual , and all people of all nations ... to become pilgrims of hope , to silence the sounds of arms and overcome divisions , ' ' the pope said from the loggia of St. Peter 's Basilica to throngs of people below . <p> The pope invoked the Holy Door of St. Peter 's Basilica , which he opened on Christmas Eve to launch the 2025 Jubilee , as representing God 's mercy , which " unties every knot ; it tears down every wall of division ; it dispels hatred and the spirit of revenge . " <p> He called for arms to be silenced in war-torn Ukraine and in the Middle East , singling out Christian communities in Israel and the Palestinian territories , " particularly in Gaza where the humanitarian situation is extremely grave , " as well as Lebanon and Syria " at this most delicate time . " <p> Francis repeated his calls for the release of hostages taken from Israel by Hamas on Oct. 7 , 2023 . <p> He cited a deadly outbreak of measles in the Democratic Republic of Congo , and the suffering of the people of Myanmar , forced to flee their homes by " the ongoing clash of arms . " The pope likewise remembered children suffering from war and hunger , the elderly living in solitude , those fleeing their homelands , who have lost their jobs , and are persecuted for their faith . <p> Pilgrims were lined up on Christmas Day to walk through the great Holy Door at the entrance of St. Peter 's Basilica , as the Jubilee is expected to bring some 32 million Catholic faithful to Rome . <p> Traversing the Holy Door is one way that the faithful can obtain indulgences , or forgiveness for sins during a Jubilee , a **26;746;TOOLONG tradition that dates from 1300 . <p> Pilgrims submitted to security controls before entering the Holy Door , amid new security fears following a deadly Christmas market attack in Germany . Many paused to touch the door as they passed and made the sign of the cross upon entering the basilica dedicated to St. Peter , the founder of the Roman Catholic Church . <p> " You feel so humble when you go through the door that once you go through is almost like a release , a release of emotions , ' ' said Blanca Martin , a pilgrim from San Diego . " ... It 's almost like a release of emotions , you feel like now you are able to let go and put everything in the hands of God . See I am getting emotional . It 's just a beautiful experience . " <h> A Chrismukkah miracle as Hanukkah and Christmas coincide <p> The calendar confluence has inspired some religious leaders to host interfaith gatherings , such as a Hanukkah party hosted last week by several Jewish organizations in Houston , Texas , bringing together members of the city 's Latino and Jewish communities for latkes , the traditional potato pancake eaten on Hanukkah , topped with guacamole and salsa . <p> While Hanukkah is intended as an upbeat , celebratory holiday , rabbis note that it 's taking place this year as wars rage in the Middle East and fears rise over widespread incidents of antisemitism . The holidays overlap infrequently because the Jewish calendar is based on lunar cycles and is not in sync with the Gregorian calendar , which sets Christmas on Dec. 25 . The last time Hanukkah began on Christmas Day was in 2005 . <h> Iraqi Christians persist in their faith <p> Christians in Nineveh Plains attended Christmas Mass on Tuesday at the Mar Georgis church in the center of Telaskaf , Iraq , with security concerns about the future . " We feel that they will pull the rug out from under our feet at any time . Our fate is unknown here , " said Bayda Nadhim , a resident of Telaskaf . <p> Iraq 's Christians , whose presence there goes back nearly to the time of Christ , belong to a number of rites and denominations . They once constituted a sizeable minority in Iraq , estimated at around 1.4 million . <p> But the community has steadily dwindled since the 2003 US-led invasion and further in 2014 when the Islamic State militant group swept through the area . The exact number of Christians left in Iraq is unclear , but they are thought to number several hundred thousand . <h> German celebrations muted by market attack <p> German celebrations were darkened by a car attack on a Christmas market in Magdeburg on Friday that left five people dead , including a 9-year-old boy , and 200 people injured . President Frank-Walter Steinmeier rewrote his recorded Christmas Day speech to address the attack , saying that " there is grief , pain , horror and incomprehension over what took place in Magdeburg . " He urged Germans to " stand together " and that " hate and violence must not have the last word . " <p> A 50-year-old Saudi doctor who had practiced medicine in Germany since 2006 was arrested on suspicion of murder , attempted murder and bodily harm . The suspect 's X account describes him as a former Muslim and is filled with anti-Islamic themes . He criticized authorities for failing to combat " the Islamification of Germany " and voiced support for the anti-immigration Alternative for Germany ( AfD ) party . <p> Barry reported from Milan . Associated Press writers Melanie Lidman in Jerusalem , Rashid Yehya in Teleskaf , Iraq and David McHugh in Frankfurt , Germany contributed to this report . <p> Copyright 2024 The Associated Press . All rights reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten or redistributed without permission . <h> Watch this discussion.Stop watching this discussion . <h> ( 0 ) comments <h> Welcome to the discussion . <p> Keep it Clean . Please avoid obscene , vulgar , lewd , racist or sexually-oriented language.PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.Do n't Threaten . Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.Be Truthful . Do n't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.Be Nice . No racism , sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.Be Proactive . Use the ' Report ' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us . We 'd love to hear eyewitness accounts , the history behind an article . 
@@119284311 <p> December 's so dramatic . For weeks , the days darken -- a quickening fade that suggests a coming show . It 's depressing to leave home around four-thirty and realize the sun 's already set . But the darkness has its clarifying benefits . One of my friends , a photographer , recently told me about a new energy in his work , coinciding with the slide toward the solstice . When the light 's this scarce , you 've got to grab it while you can . <p> Darkness that , by contrast , makes light all the brighter ; bright moments that seem to redeem the dark : that black-and-white opposition is , for me , what makes up the poignant imagery of Christmas . Think of the famous scene : wise men navigating by the stars -- flaming constellations against a fathomless sky -- searching the dank nooks of Rome 's empire for an incandescent child . Handel quotes the prophet Isaiah -- that urgent , scathing , unpredictable voice -- in the " Messiah " : " The people that walked in darkness have seen a great light . " Right now , my living room reeks pleasantly of pine -- little white pinpricks against so many dark green leaves . ( The great comedian and writer Paul Mooney once made fun of dark-light talk like this , pointing out how hopelessly racialized it tends to be in a society like our own . Mocking a melodramatic pronouncement , he wailed , " It was the darkest day of my life ! " Fair enough . ) <p> Looking back at the year , I ca n't help but see things in this Christmassy , paradoxical way . In art and politics equally , 2024 has been -- to me , at least -- a swerving journey between high peaks and low depths , blind confusions and piercing revelations , the crooked and the straight . Events popped out of nowhere and dissolved just as quickly as they 'd appeared . One shock followed another until , by year 's end , it was hard to feel really shocked . <p> Maybe this way of seeing is personal for me . Almost exactly a year ago , a few days before Christmas , after a year replete with death and sorrow , I learned that I 'd be a father again . Almost nineteen years between babies , and what timing ! The first thing I did upon hearing it -- it was nighttime ; we were walking on a quiet street -- was laugh . It 's been a year of surprises . <p> Not long after New Year 's Day , I went to see " Terce , " a spectacle of music and movement -- theatre in the way that all religious ceremony is theatre -- by Heather Christian . The piece is a rewriting , a kind of earth-mothering desacralization , of the Catholic Mass , and of the scriptural and poetic tradition from which it springs . If you 've sat in a pew a time or two , you might recognize some of the phrases that Christian twists into mysterious new urban-pagan meanings . The performance happened in Brooklyn , in a converted church with a high balcony and ever higher windows reaching toward the pointed roof . Surrounded by a hip choir of singers and instrumentalists , Christian strode energetically around the room like a rogue spirit , or the first initiate into a newly constituted priesthood , singing here , playing there . The crowd looked up at a screen , learning her words , willing to be changed . The scene felt like it could have been an earnest response to Paul Laurence Dunbar 's poem " Christmas Carol " : <p> No , be not still , But with a willStrike all your harps and set them ringing ; On hill and heathLet every breathThrow all its power into singing ! <p> Around the same time , the comedian Katt Williams burst into song of a very different kind . As a guest on " Club Shay Shay , " the interview-based video podcast hosted by the Hall of Fame tight end Shannon Sharpe , Williams , always a speechifying wild card , let loose a stream of prophetic-sounding imprecations aimed at his contemporaries in the entertainment industry . He aired petty personal beefs with comics like Steve Harvey and Cedric the Entertainer , but , along the way , seemed to be pointing beyond individuals and toward a larger conspiracy of dishonesty among the famous ? lite . He spoke cryptically about revelations that might or might not emerge , about , say , Sean ( Diddy ) Combs or the famous TV preacher T. D. Jakes . Who knew ? It was time for things to come to light . <p> He sounded conspiratorial and a bit unhinged -- at one point he claimed to have read , in his youth , at a rate of three thousand books a year . But , thanks to monsters like Jeffrey Epstein and disasters like COVID-19 , wild conspiracy has become one of the signature attitudes of our era . Conspiracy theorizing is a sort of antidote against shock , a way to ward off the tumult of an over-eventful world . If everything 's connected , nothing 's a surprise . In his long , often downbeat poem " For the Time Being : A Christmas Oratorio , " W. H. Auden predicted that " Reason will be replaced by Revelation . . . Whole cosmogonies will be created out of some forgotten personal resentment , complete epics written in private languages . " He could have been foretelling a rhetorical performance like Williams 's , or , more darkly , the raving political style of which it was a minor example . <p> The spring and summer were hot with sudden conflict . In March , Kendrick Lamar and Drake -- arguably the most popular rappers of their moment -- started a lyrical battle that stretched on for months , culminating when Lamar released " Not Like Us , " a bopping accusation of crimes literal ( pedophilia ) and symbolic ( cultural opportunism ) which sounds like a West Coast party record . Now people play the song that vanquished Drake on the P.A. system at basketball arenas , or arrange it for horns and drums and perform it on college football fields . Drake was a world-beater , a guaranteed hitmaker for himself and others , and he 's lately become , at Lamar 's hands , a bit of a punch line . Recently he filed a petition against Universal Music Group , which distributes his music and Lamar 's . Another conspiracy theory , one I 'm not so sure I do n't buy , at least in part : Drake claims that UMG intentionally boosted " Not Like Us , " essentially plotting and executing -- with the help of streaming services , such as Spotify -- an in-house coup against an artist who had become too big for his own good . ( Spotify has denied the claim . ) Maybe this is a bit of the " truth " that Katt Williams was talking about -- nobody denies that the music business seems rigged against the artists on whom it depends . <p> It 's always been like this : we 're in a dark room , groping around for dim hints . Sometimes a light glows through the window and throws shadows against the wall , and we make quick , hopeful sketches before the image evanesces . Life does n't offer many answers . But it does seem , these days , as if big , overweening institutions -- a record label or a streaming service or a government , the shocking bureaucracy of a school -- are determined to crowd out even more sun , making it all the more difficult to see what 's what . Is what I 'm seeing inflation or price gouging ? A big organic hit or a Netflix-pumped mirage ? Nobody can seem to find the numbers to show and to prove . Everything 's interpretation . That kind of obfuscation was all I could think about in April and May , when , on TV and the social feeds dancing up and down on my phone , I watched universities sic police officers and other keepers of official violence on their students . The kids were galvanized by unprecedented images out of Gaza -- explosions , white rubble , bloody kids -- and decided to make noise where they lived and had the most leverage . <p> On the day I delivered my short , sad final lecture of the spring semester for a class I taught at Columbia , I decided to take a walk through the student encampment on the campus . The kids were tranquilly giving speeches and playing music , chatting with any passerby who 'd listen . They 'd carefully marked the tables where nuts were served , mindful of allergies . There was n't much foot traffic : the administration had closed the campus to outsiders , and the air was strangely dead . By some of the news coverage , you 'd think the campers in their bright tents had abducted a provost . Not many days later , I watched hundreds of police officers , a phalanx in dark blue , storm the campus , arresting students and breaking up their groupings , approaching the administrative exercise as though it were the early stages of a war . <p> All spring , I 'd been going to doctor 's appointments , witnessing the colorless miracle of the sonograph . I still do n't understand how the dorky-looking machine and the cold blue gel conspire to turn secret sounds into those silvery , fragile , beautiful images . But often , when I looked at the echo of my child 's face in profile , I thought of the kids I 'd seen on other screens all year long , suffering violence , becoming acquainted with the worst . <p> The gestational period , that slow-brewing shock , brings to mind e. e. cummings 's description , in his poem " little tree , " of a box of Christmas ornaments : " the spangles / that sleep all the year in a dark box / dreaming of being taken out and allowed to shine . " <p> I put a book out this year and , on my travels , got to experience a pair of political surprises alongside fellow-Americans I 'd only just met . I was about to give a talk in Chicago when somebody looked at their phone and murmured that perhaps Donald Trump had been shot in Pennsylvania . Later , in my hotel room , I shook my head in disbelief when I saw the now famous picture of Trump with his fist high and blood streaking across his face , his body swaddled by the bodies of his Secret Service detail . He 'd gathered himself like some adrenalized animal , all instinct , for just long enough to make the attempt on his life seem like a snippet of fan fiction . Then Trump showed up to the Republican National Convention wearing a huge white thought-bubble of bandage on his ear . Improv followed by choreo : one of the great performances of the year . <p> I was at a book fair in Idaho , under a big white lovely tent , when a rumor started going around . Again : phones . People craned down at them , hoping then quickly confirming that it was true . Joe Biden had resigned from the Presidential race -- the right decision at the wrong time -- leaving room for his Vice-President to run . Even then , in those first moments , you could feel the strained stirrings of " joy " that would become the much ballyhooed theme of the first month of Kamala Harris 's short campaign . After so much uncertainty , so much muddling through muck , people understandably wanted something clear and clean and good to work and root for . That fleeting early Kamala moment is , in retrospect , a sour reminder that , though the shocks are always coming , giving us the giddy sensation of a high , you ca n't manufacture the true and lasting surprise -- more fact than feeling -- that hums under real , powerful political movements . <p> The Olympics pluck at inner chords first sounded in my childhood . If I ever get too old to feel total glee when confronted by all those weird sports , somebody put me away . For one thing , Olympic years give nations license to fly their freak flags , just a bit . It 's a shame that conservative Catholics allowed themselves to be so thoroughly trolled by the mildly provocative , maximally loopy parody of the Last Supper that the French put on during the opening ceremony . It would have otherwise been a choice moment to ask the classic question : What 's going on with these people ? And how can I join them ? <p> This time around , I was especially happy to follow Simone Biles , who is better at gymnastics than anyone else is at anything else . Before the Games , I 'd watched " Simone Biles Rising , " a Netflix documentary about Biles 's recovery from the " twisties " that she 'd suffered three years ago , leaving her lost in the air when she flipped . These kinds of athlete-sanctioned docs are everywhere now , pretending at objectivity but acting , in fact , as elongated hagiographic commercials . Still , it was harrowing to hear Biles describe what had ailed her , and inspiring to see her working her way back . When I watched the floor exercise that won her yet another gold medal -- she gets so high off the ground that she seems to come down only by choice , like a benevolent deity condescending to meet mortals and make a home among them -- I was n't surprised so much by her comeback as by my ability , all over again , to be deeply moved by a body and its exertions . <p> I 'm still moved , much less happily , by political disappointment , too . I was tasked with live-blogging on Election Night , and in yet another hotel room I snuggled up with some room service , typing away my hopeful jitters . The night was a downhill slope , a movement in woeful reverse , a tidal pull back into the tumult and dangerous madness of what must now be called the era of Trump . At three in the morning , there were empty plates on my bed and a knot in my stomach . <p> Soon after the election , I went to the New York Philharmonic , to see a program led and conducted by the eminent composer John Adams . The clocks had been moved back , and the tail of the year was beginning its slide : it was pitch-black as the car took us to Lincoln Center . The program was a kind of topography , travelling from the meditative , repetitive plains cleared out by the music of the Estonian Arvo P ? rt , through the troubled environmentalist worryscape of the young American composer Gabriella Smith , and onto the urban sidewalks , made mirrors by rain , conjured by Aaron Copland 's " Quiet City . " The players that night were sleek and fun , expressive and game . They did n't shy away from the contradictions in the music . They were consummate professionals acting out the startled recognition of an encounter with brand-new noises , native to real places . When they sounded the final notes of Adams 's " City Noir , " the crowd went up in claps and whoops . <p> The savvy and the innocence of that concert reminded me of another one I 'd been entranced by : the Tiny Desk performance by the R. &amp; B. singer Maxwell . A friend in middle school made me a cassette-taped copy of Maxwell 's first album , " Maxwell 's Urban Hang Suite , " and I 've been a fan ever since . Maxwell 's falsetto is just as strong as it 's always been , and his backup singers held his voice in a feathery bed of their own voices , making all the classic songs float . He seemed happy to be there , and genuinely surprised that the audience in the little workspace at NPR knew all the words to his songs . A truly humble superstar : there 's something you do n't see every day . Emily Dickinson gets at that rare phenomenon in her short poetic profile of Christ : <p> The Savior must have beenA docile Gentleman -- To come so far so cold a DayFor little Fellowmen -- <p> Here 's a symbolic gesture that deeply touched me , a heartening drama on a darkening stage : the wooden Nativity scene unveiled at the Vatican earlier this month , created by Palestinian artists from Dar al-Kalima University , in Bethlehem . The baby Jesus ' manger was wrapped in a kaffiyeh . A small sign that this child -- a world-historic surprise -- was supposed to have lived and died for precisely the most endangered and most despised among our " little Fellowmen , " wherever they might live . <p> My baby was born a whole month early . We were n't totally ready . Breaking water in the morning and shoulders squiggling free in the dark of evening . Her name means Light . ? <p> " The Brutalist , " the director 's nearly four-hour study of immigration , identity , and marriage , flowed from his own struggle to create art without compromise . " You really have to dare to suck to transcend , " he said . 
@@119305112 <p> " There 's been many ways in which Harris chose the path of Liz Cheney and the donor class on a range of issues , and abandoning working families in places like Dearborn , who make up the people Democrats claim to be fighting for , " Elabed said during an NBC News interview . <p> Harris enlisted Cheney 's endorsement during her bid for the White House and even held a panel discussion with the former lawmaker in Michigan just weeks before the election . <p> A vocal proponent of the wars the United States has engaged in during her political career , Cheney has often invoked criticism from anti-war activists who have labeled her a warmonger and claimed she supports the " military-industrial complex " that is responsible for countless deaths . <p> Farah Khan , a lifelong Democrat and co-chairwoman of Michigan 's Abandon Harris campaign , said that " people wanted to hear " Trump 's pledge to " end the war " in Gaza , noting that the president-elect made a concerted effort to court the state 's pro-Palestinian community . <p> " He at least , at least came and spoke to the Muslims . He heard them and said , ' OK , I will finish . I will end the war in the Middle East , ' even if he did n't say , you know , a genocide , but he said he will bring peace , " she said . " And that 's what the people wanted to hear , and that 's why he got the votes , " Khan reflected . <p> " Harris says , ' Oh , yeah , I feel bad . ' And the next day , they send billions of dollars again in weapons . I mean , you ca n't even fool kids like this nowadays , let alone grown people who are your constituents , your voters , " she continued . <p> While some Uncommitted voters left the tops of their ballots blank after voicing frustration with the Democrats , Bryarr Misner , who worked as a campaign manager for the Abandon Harris campaign in Pittsburgh , ended up voting for Trump . <p> " We went through multiple avenues to try to be heard , and instead , we were ridiculed , " Misner said . <p> Elabed echoed the comments , saying Harris " never came to Dearborn , " the first Arab-American city in the United States that is located in Michigan . Dearborn delivered for Trump after voting for President Joe Biden in 2020 with almost 70% of the vote . <p> " She never came to speak to families that were first-hand impacted by our U.S. policy decisions that ultimately killed their family members , " she added . <p> In contrast , Misner said Trump " continuously came and he was in the community . " <p> " While I do n't believe that he 's going to enact policies that will benefit the community , he at least showed that he was willing to show up for the community , " he added . <p> The Biden administration has backed Israel during the Middle Eastern conflict that has raged for over 14 months , sparking outcry from Arab voters , particularly in Muslim-majority areas in Michigan who had relatives killed in Gaza . <p> As she campaigned against Trump this fall , Harris largely aligned herself with the White House 's stance on the conflict , provoking anger from the Michigan-based pro-Palestinian Abandon Harris and Uncommitted movements , which called for an end to the hostilities in the Middle East . The disillusionment with Harris was particularly critical as Michigan is a battleground state that holds some of the largest Arab-American populations in the country . <p> Meanwhile , Trump prominently aligned himself with anti-war figures such as Robert F. Kennedy Jr . and former Democratic Hawaii Rep. Tulsi Gabbard during his campaign for a second term . <p> His strategy of pledging to bring a swift end to the war in the Middle East prominently gained traction with the Uncommitted-aligned mayor of Hamtramck , Michigan . Amer Ghalib , who heads one of the country 's only Arab-majority cities , backed Trump in a shocking endorsement foreshadowing the red wave that came on Election Day in the state . 
@@119305118 <h> Israel shifts military focus to Houthis <p> Israel 's military carried out its latest round of airstrikes in Yemen in areas controlled by the Houthis on Thursday as it turned its attention to another Iranian proxy . <p> Israeli Air Force fighter jets conducted strikes on the Houthis infrastructure at Sana'a International Airport , the Hezyaz and Gas Kanatib power stations , and other military infrastructure in the Al Hudaydah , Salif , and Ras Kanatib ports on the west coast part of the country . <p> This was Israel 's fourth such aerial assault on the Houthis and the second one this month . A day earlier , the Houthis fired a ballistic missile that the Israeli military intercepted , which marked the fourth in less than a week , according to the Times of Israel . <p> " The Houthis will also learn what Hamas , Hezbollah , the Assad regime , and others have learned , and this will also take time , " Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said in a speech on Wednesday . " This lesson will be learned across the Middle East , I tell you , in those days at this season . " <p> Last week , Israel carried out strikes on the Houthis ' ports , which a local television channel tied to the Houthis said killed nine people . <p> The Houthis have also conducted dozens of attacks on shipping vessels transiting the waterways off Yemen 's coasts , pushing shipping companies to avoid the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden . Houthi officials have said these attacks were in solidarity with Palestinians , though its attacks have affected ships completely unrelated to Israel or the United States . <p> They have also periodically fired missiles and drones at Israel , a handful of which were not intercepted by Israeli air defense systems and caused casualties . <p> Netanyahu and Defense Minister Israel Katz believe that strikes in Yemen may get them to stop its attacks , while Mossad leader David Barnea believes Israel should attack Iran to get the Houthi attacks to cease , according to Israeli news outlet YNet . <p> The U.S. and U.K. have also conducted airstrikes against the Houthis , though the strikes did not get the Houthis to stop its attacks on commercial shipping vessels . <p> Israel has taken on Iran 's Axis of Resistance in various ways over the last year after Hamas 's Oct. 7 , 2023 , terrorist attack that left roughly 1,200 people , and another 250 of whom were kidnapped and brought into Gaza . Over the last year , Israel has decimated Hamas and Hezbollah 's senior leadership and arsenal , the latter of which has already agreed to a ceasefire deal , while it has also demonstrated its ability to hit targets inside of Iran as well . <p> Israeli forces have invaded both Gaza and Lebanon in its wars against Hamas and Lebanon , which have resulted in the displacement of millions of people and the killing of tens of thousands of people , civilians and combatants . Israel 's military killed Hamas leader Yahya Sinwar and Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah earlier this fall . <p> Iran also supported the Assad regime in Syria , which collapsed earlier this month . Israel has since carried out airstrikes in Syria to ensure Assad 's weapons or infrastructure do n't fall into the wrong hands . <p> Iran also supports militias in Iraq , though they have infrequently attacked Israel over the last year , rather they have carried out about 200 attacks on U.S. forces in Iraq , Syria , and Jordan . 
@@119311516 <h> Israeli strike kills five journalists in Gaza , hospital says <p> Civil Defense members put out a fire in a broadcast van following an Israeli strike that killed five journalists , according to medics with the Gaza health authorities . <p> Khamis Said/Reuters <p> CNN -- <p> Five journalists have been killed in an overnight Israeli strike that hit their vehicle in Gaza , a hospital and their news outlet said in a statement on Thursday . <p> The vehicle , belonging to Al-Quds Today Television , was parked outside Al-Awda Hospital when it was hit , according to the hospital . The Gaza-based television channel is affiliated with the Palestine Islamic Jihad militant group . <p> Ayman Al-Jadi , Faisal Abu Al-Qumsan , Mohammed Al-Lada'a , Ibrahim Al-Sheikh Ali , and Fadi Hassouna were all sleeping in the vehicle when the strike hit , other journalists at the scene said . <p> Footage of the aftermath seen by CNN shows the vehicle in flames with the words " TV " and " PRESS " in large letters visible on the back doors . Another video seen by CNN shows it completely engulfed by flames . <p> Al-Quds Today Television condemned the attack and said the five were killed " while performing their journalistic and humanitarian duty . " <p> The Israeli military confirmed it carried out the strike on what it said was an " Islamic Jihad terrorist cell inside in the area of Nuseirat , " but did not provide any proof for its allegations . <p> The Committee to Protect Journalists ( CPJ ) , a US-based non-profit group , has said at least 141 journalists and media workers have been killed in Gaza , the West Bank , Israel and Lebanon since October 7th last year , " making it the deadliest period for journalists since CPJ began gathering data in 1992 . " <p> Of those killed , 133 were Palestinians in Gaza , who " face particularly high risks as they try to cover the conflict . " <p> Ahmad Al-Louh , 39 , and four other people were killed by the strike that targeted an office of the Civil Defense service in central Gaza 's Nuseirat Camp area , according to Al-Awda Hospital , which treated the casualties . <p> Al Jazeera condemned the attack , saying Al-Louh was " brutally killed " while covering a Civil Defense attempt to rescue a family that had been severely injured in an earlier bombing . <p> Mohammad Al Sawalhi , a stringer for CNN in Gaza , said Al-Louh was well known among journalists in Gaza and was often embedded with the Civil Defense in his capacity as a journalist , covering rescue missions . <p> The Israeli military confirmed it targeted the Civil Defense offices in a " precise strike , " claiming the site was being used as a " command-and-control center " by Hamas and alleging that Al-Louh was a " terrorist " who had previously served with Islamic Jihad . The IDF did not provide any proof for its allegations . 
@@119315415 <h> The Morning Call 2024 Pictures of the Year PHOTOS <h> Share this : <p> As 2024 comes to an end , we take a look back at our favorite pictures of the year in The Morning Call . <p> An ostrich is seen Saturday , Oct , 26 , 2024 , during Boo at the Zoo event at the Lehigh Valley Zoo in North Whitehall Township . This is the final weekend for the trick-or-treat event . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Children and families watch the North American otters on Saturday , Oct , 26 , 2024 , during Boo at the Zoo event at the Lehigh Valley Zoo in North Whitehall Township . This is the final weekend for the trick-or-treat event . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) <p> The St. Luke 's Nurse Honor Guard 's Jane Fisk gives a lamp to Elspeth Sipple , daughter of the late Dr. Janet Sipple during a memorial service for the late Dr. Janet Sipple Friday , April 5 , 2024 , at Moravian University in Bethlehem . Sipple , who worked for St. Luke 's and was a visiting professor at Moravian , was honored by St. Luke 's Nurse Honor Guard , which pays tribute to nurses who have died with the Nightingale Ceremony , named for famous nurse Florence Nightingale . During the services , a member of the Honor Guard reads the " Nightingale Pledge " and a sonnet , then places a rose while saying the nurse 's name and , " We honor you this day and give you a white rose to symbolize our honor and appreciation for being our nursing colleague . " ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Blue Mountain Ski Resort employees prepare the slopes Tuesday , Dec. 3 , 2024 , for an anticipated opening on Friday . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) Lisa MacDonald , of Imperfection is Beautiful , adjusts one of her " imperfect chandeliers " made with reused material . Children could build one of the chandeliers for free on Saturday , April 20 , 2024 , during Allentown 's fifth annual Earth Day in the Park at Cedar Creek Park . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) <p> Sage Tatum , 5 , places Easter eggs in her basket Sunday , March 31 , 2024 , during the Ortiz Ark Foundation 's fifth annual Easter Egg hunt at Stevens Park in Allentown . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Parkland 's Blake Dergham wrestles Phillipsburg 's Dawson McWilliams in the 119-pound bout Thursday , March 14 , 2024 , during the Easton Lions Club Classic wrestling match New Jersey vs . District 11 at Easton High School . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) The Easton Marching Band and others parade down Northampton Street on Wednesday , Nov. 27 , 2024 , to Cottingham Stadium on the eve of the Easton-Phillipsburg football game on Thanksgiving . A parade and community pep rally including a laser light show was held instead of the bonfire due to a county-wide burn ban . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) <p> A pedestrian walks in the falling snow Saturday , Jan. 6 , 2024 , in Bethlehem . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Roller coaster enthusiast Iby Shaw , of Schnecksville , photographed going upside down through a loop , achieved a remarkable feat on Friday , Oct. 11 , 2024 , with his 1,000th ride on Dorney Park 's Iron Menace . Since the ride 's opening on April 17 , Shaw relentlessly pursued his goal and reached the milestone on Friday . ( Monica Cabrera/The Morning Call ) Dieruff High School 's Ronald Suarez fields the ball while leaping over Allen 's Adrian Garcia during an Eastern Pennsylvania Conference game against Allen at Coca-Cola Park in Allentown . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) <p> Allentown Streets employees prepare to put a spreader on the back of a truck Wednesday , Jan. 3 , 2024 , at the city 's Department of Public Works site on Grammes Road in Allentown . The National Weather Service has stated snow is likely this weekend in the Lehigh Valley , however it 's not clear yet how much will fall . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) The Hawk Mountain Highlanders perform in the Allentown St. Patrick 's Day Parade on Sunday , March 17 , 2024 . ( Amy Shortell / The Morning Call ) Logan Miles throws dice in the air as he plays a Race to Launch space game Tuesday , Sept. 17 , 2024 , during Reach Cyber Charter School 's curiosity carnival-themed back-to-school event at the Da Vinci Science Center in Allentown . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) <p> Jamison Tice uses an air cannon station to blow over a tower of cups Tuesday , Sept. 17 , 2024 , at the Blastoff ! /Air Properties area during Reach Cyber Charter School 's curiosity carnival-themed back-to-school event at the Da Vinci Science Center in Allentown . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) Jenvirick Dewinvt repairs his bicycle tire during an open house Monday , April 15 , 2024 , to announce Community Bike Works in Allentown will host the national 2024 Youth Bike Summit in Allentown . The event is expected to bring to draw up to 400 youth and their advocates from youth bike programs across the country . ( Amy Shortell / The Morning Call ) Nazareth 's Naomee Adisa competes in girls pole vault Tuesday , May 14 , 2024 , at the District 11 Track &amp; Field Championships at Blue Mountain High School in North Manheim Township , Schuylkill County . <p> Boys compete in the 3200m relay Tuesday , May 14 , 2024 , at the District 11 Track &amp; Field Championships at Blue Mountain High School in North Manheim Township , Schuylkill County.Nativity BVM 's Liam Messina competes in boys high jump Tuesday , May 14 , 2024 , at the District 11 Track &amp; Field Championships at Blue Mountain High School in North Manheim Township , Schuylkill County.Tony Iannelli , president and CEO , of the Greater Lehigh Valley Chamber of Commerce , performs with Allen High School Theatre Department members Thursday , Nov. 7 , 2024 , during the chamber 's annual meeting at the Wind Creek Event Center in Bethlehem . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) <p> Ryan Mackenzie speaks during the Greater Lehigh Valley Chamber of Commerce annual meeting Thursday , Nov. 7 , 2024 , at the Wind Creek Event Center in Bethlehem . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) Broughal Middle School student Victoria Morales-Ramirez , center , reacts as Cirque Kikasse performs for the public and students Wednesday , Sept.18 , 2024 , at Lehigh University in Bethlehem . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) Performers in the Cirque du Soleil show " Corteo " rehearse before opening night Thursday , March 28 , 2024 , at PPL Center in Allentown . The venue will host performances March 28-31 . ( Amy Shortell / The Morning Call ) <p> The new DaVinci Science Center building in Allentown is seen Wednesday , May 15 , 2024 , during a " soft opening " event there . The center will open to the public on May 22 , 2024 . ( Amy Shortell / The Morning Call ) Riley leaps into the pool Friday , Oct. 18 , 2024 , during a diving competition as part of Barktoberfest at the Promenade Saucon Valley in Center Valley . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) Faces in the Crowd : The Durham Bulls play the Lehigh Valley IronPigs Friday , April , 12 , 2024 , at Coca-Cola Park . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) <p> Members of an honor guard ring the bell Wednesday , Oct. 9 , 2024 at Schweder Fire Station Co. 1 in Bethlehem during the annual memorial ceremony for city firefighters who died this past year . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) Danni Robinson enjoys her pasta dish Friday , Jan. 26 , 2024 , during the weekly Firehouse Friday at Hibernia Fire Station in Allentown . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) Paul Wright talks about honeybees and their behavior to the crowd Friday , March 8 , 2024 , at his booth at the Lehigh Valley Flower Show in Allentown . The show runs through Sunday at the Allentown Agri-Plex . ( Amy Shortell / The Morning Call ) <p> The IronPigs ' Nick Podkul slides safe into second base during a game against Durham Friday , March , 29 , 2024 , at Coca-Cola Park . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) Rochester plays the Lehigh Valley IronPigs Friday , March , 29 , 2024 , in the opening game of the season at Coca-Cola Park . ( Amy Shortell / The Morning Call ) Director TJ Hayden leads the Delaware Valley Regional High School Delaware Valley Golden Blues band performs Sunday , Feb. 25 , 2024 , during the 12th annual SteelStacks High School Jazz Band Showcase in Bethlehem . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) <p> State Rep. Ryan Mackenzie , who won the Republican nomination for the 7th congressional district , speaks Tuesday , April 23 , 2024 , at Delizoso Italian Grill in Macungie . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) Lehigh Valley Children 's Centers student Marleigh , left , and Josiah , right , paint a mural panel Thursday , March 28 , 2024 , in Allentown . The 120-foot-long artwork will be installed in late spring on the new Da Vinci Science Center in downtown Allentown . ( Amy Shortell / The Morning Call ) Northwestern Lehigh reacts as they win the District 11 3A championship game against North Schuylkill on Friday , Nov. 8 , 2024 , at Lehighton High School . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) <p> The East Hills Middle School Charger Band performs during the Parade of Shamrocks on Saturday , March 16 , 2024 , along Main Street in Bethlehem . ( Amy Shortell / The Morning Call ) The crowd watches the Parade of Shamrocks on Saturday , March 16 , 2024 , along Main Street in Bethlehem . ( Amy Shortell / The Morning Call ) Parkland 's Nick Coval defends Northampton 's Tristen Pinnock against Northampton in a boys basketball game Tuesday , Jan. 30 , 2024 , at Parkland High School . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) <p> Gov . Josh Shapiro speaks during a Wednesday , May 8 , 2024 , news conference at 983 American Parkway , Allentown during which officials announced the state is awarding a $1.1 million grant to help construct a building at that address to be used for industrial production . ( Amy Shortell / The Morning Call ) Elena Smith catches some air Tuesday , Feb. 13 , 2024 , as she sleds down a hill at Catasauqua Park . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) Jeannette Hernandez performs a derma blade service on client Becky Vanseeters at Spiritual Skin Med Spa on Friday , Dec. 6 , 2024 , in Upper Macungie Township . Hernandez opened the business a few months ago . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) <p> Paper hearts decorate a wall Thursday , Feb. 8 , 2024 , at the Third Street Parking deck in Easton . Mercantile Home , an Easton gift store , is sponsoring a community project called Love Easton with the goal of having community members make 28,127 paper hearts , one for each resident of the city , to display in public spaces in Easton through March 9 . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) Attendees hold candles Monday , Nov. 18 , 2024 , during a vigil for Victoria Lee at Lehigh University in Bethlehem . Lee , a 2022 Lehigh alum , was fatally shot by police in July during a mental health crisis at her apartment in Fort Lee , N.J. ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) Democratic vice presidential candidate and Minnesota Gov . Tim Walz greets the Almonte family , who own El Tipico restaurant , Friday , Oct. 25 , 2024 , during a campaign stop in Allentown . ( Amy Shortell / The Morning Call ) <p> Snow gleams in the late afternoon sun Tuesday , Feb. 20 , 2024 , in the Colonial Industrial Quarter in Bethlehem . After a storm last week dumped a foot of snow in some areas of the Lehigh Valley , this week 's forecast largely calls for high temperatures in the 40s . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) Bethlehem Catholic 's Carter Vassa runs with the ball against Berks Catholic 's Gavin Welker on Thursday , Sept. 5 , 2024 , during a football game at BASD Stadium in Bethlehem . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Bethlehem Catholic celebrates winning the District 11 4A baseball championship Wenesday , May 29 , 2024 , at DeSales University . Bethlehem Catholic defeated North Schuylkill . ( Amy Shortell / The Morning Call ) <p> Artists Billy Nieves and Jermel Fountain , along with students from Donegan Elementary School , unveil a mural they created Friday , May 31 , 2024 , in Bethlehem . Donegan art teacher Tiffany Anderson facilitated the project , engaging her fifth-grade students in the design process.Barry Karver of Green Lane , a supporter of Donald Trump , stands Friday , Jan. 12 , 2024 , on Chestnut Street in Emmaus waiting for President Biden to arrive . " The big lie is coming ! " Karver said . " ... Immigrants , get better recognition than veterans . " ( Monica Cabrera/The Morning Call ) Team Night Death 's Jess Gellis and son Holden , 5 , both of Schnecksville , compete Sunday , March 10 , 2024 , in a cardboard box race at Bear Creek Mountain in Longswamp Township . Using only a cardboard box , duct tape , paint , zip ties and some creativity , racers head down snow-covered Bear Creek Mountain . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) <p> Allentown Summer Playground Program participant Josiah Watkins , 10 , learns the basics of how to operate the water hose from Allentown firefighter Lt. Jeremy Warmkessel on Tuesday , June 18 , 2024 , at Roosevelt Park in Allentown . With the region under a heat advisory until Thursday and then an excessive heat watch until Sunday , the fire department is operating cooling stations this week at various parks . The National Weather Service reported a heat index of 88 degrees about 4 p.m . Tuesday . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Concerned citizens , activists and community leaders gather Tuesday , March , 5 , 2024 , at Lehigh University during a rally urging Bethlehem City Council to take action to end the siege on Gaza and advocate for an immediate ceasefire . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) Interlace Cultural y Desarrollo Mexicano Dance Troupe performs Tuesday , May 21 , 2024 , during the opening ceremony of the new Da Vinci Science Center in Allentown . ( Amy Shortell / The Morning Call ) <p> Faces in the crowd during the Bethlehem Catholic vs Berks Catholic football game Thursday , Sept. 5 , 2024 , at BASD Stadium in Bethlehem . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) A picturesque view is seen Thursday , Oct. 10 , 2024 during a brisk late afternoon on the bridge at Hugh Moore Park in Easton . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Leaves start to turn color Thursday , Oct. 10 , 2024 during a brisk late afternoon at Hugh Moore Park in Easton . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) <p> Fog rolls over the fields to create a painterly landscape Thursday , Jan. 25 , 2024 , along Rt . 100 near Claussville . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Lehigh Valley high school drama students perform the opening number during the 2024 Freddy Awards on Thursday , May 23 , 2024 , at the State Theatre in Easton . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Emmaus performs a song from Rodgers &amp; Hammerstein 's Cinderella ( Broadway Version ) during the 2024 Freddy Awards on Thursday , May 23 , 2024 , at the State Theatre in Easton . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) <p> Freedom 's Geovanny Ledee slides back to first base against Parkland 's Mack Parsell on Friday , April 26 , 2024 , during a Eastern Pennsylvania Conference game at Freedom High School in Bethlehem . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Freedom 's Chase Walker passes against Bethlehem Catholic on Thursday , Oct. 03 , 2024 , during a football game in Bethlehem . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Carson Kressley on horseback , dressed in a tricorn hat and red-trimmed regimental coat , Thursday , March 7 , 2024 , splashes down the middle of a creek off Main Street , in Quakertown . Kressley makes an appearance as Gen. William McPherson in " The Fries Rebellion , " an educational docudrama under production in the area this week . ( Monica Cabrera/The Morning Call ) <p> Area residents dressed in festive costumes gather on Maplewood Road to perform for trick-or-treaters as the crowd watches during a Halloween flash mob Thursday , Oct. 31 , 2024 , in Riegelsville . The annual performance started in 2019 when neighbors and friends took over the road with a surprise performance to bring a little more fun and an extra treat for residents during the holiday . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Timothy Bricco , 15 , of Boy Scout Troop 352 helps fold American flags to be burned in a flag-retirement ceremony during a Patriot Day event to remember the victims of the 9/11 terrorist attacks Wednesday , Sept. 11 , 2024 , at Hanover Township Community Center in Hanover Township , Northampton County . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Boy Scout Troop 352 leaders Dave Soares and Javier Diaz burn retired American flags during a Patriot Day ceremony to remember the victims of the 9/11 terrorist attacks Wednesday , Sept. 11 , 2024 , at Hanover Township Community Center in Hanover Township , Northampton County . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) <p> Pennsylvania Gov . Josh Shapiro speaks to the crowd at Kamala Harris ' campaign rally Monday , Nov. 4 , 2024 , at Muhlenberg College in Allentown . ( April Gamiz / The Morning Call ) A person and their dog take a walk Saturday , Feb. 17 , 2024 , in Bethlehem 's Historic Downtown after a fast-moving winter storm moved through the Lehigh Valley . The storm left up to a foot of snow in some parts of the region . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Eli Rich , 6 , of Hellertown , and his buddy take a breather after moving to the music Thursday , June 27 , 2024 at the Hellertown Community Pool during a Dip-N-Dance ? event . According to his mom , Eli is his own person and dances to the beat of his own drum . ( Monica Cabrera/Special to The Morning Call ) <p> People splash each other with colored powder Sunday , April 21 , 2024 , during the Indian American Association of Lehigh Valley 's celebration of Holi , the Hindu festival of colors , at Grange Park in Allentown . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Myra Patel , 9 , dances with others during a demonstration performance Sunday , Sept. 15 , 2024 , during the seventh annual India Heritage Day hosted by Saara Arts at the Arts Park in Allentown . Saara Arts is a Lehigh Valley nonprofit cultural organization promoting Indian and global art . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Faces in the Crowd : The IronPigs play the Buffalo Bisons on Tuesday , June 4 , 2024 , at Coca-Cola Park in Allentown . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) <p> Tom Leakan of Somerdale , New Jersey , tries to keep cool as he watches watches an IronPigs baseball game Tuesday , July 9 , 2024 , at Coca-Cola Park in Allentown . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Ironpigs ' pitcher Max Castillo tries to keep cool between innings in the dugout during an IronPigs baseball game Tuesday , July 9 , 2024 , at Coca-Cola Park in Allentown . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Vice President Kamala Harris holds a rally Monday , Nov. 4 , 2024 , at Muhlenberg College in Allentown , just one day before the 2024 presidential election . ( Monica Cabrera/The Morning Call ) <p> Lehigh University and the Steel Battalion Army ROTC Program holds its annual 9/11 memorial event Wednesday , Sept. 11 , 2024 , to mark the 23rd anniversary of the terror attacks . The ceremony included a flag raising , moment of silence and the planting of the 2,977 American flags to honor the lives lost . ( Monica Cabrera/The Morning Call ) Lehigh University and the Steel Battalion Army ROTC Program holds its annual 9/11 memorial event Wednesday , Sept. 11 , 2024 , to mark the 23rd anniversary of the terror attacks . The ceremony included a flag raising , moment of silence and the planting of the 2,977 American flags to honor the lives lost . ( Monica Cabrera/The Morning Call ) Scenes during the Lehigh University vs Colgate University football game Saturday , Nov. 16 , 2024 , held at Goodman Stadium in Lower Saucon Township . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) <p> Scenes during the Lehigh University vs Colgate University football game Saturday , Nov. 16 , 2024 , held at Goodman Stadium in Lower Saucon Township . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Demonstrators set up replica coffins at a " Solidarity Week for Palestine " rally Friday , May 3 , 2024 , on the Lehigh University campus in Bethlehem . The rally was held to protest Israel 's military campaign in Gaza . ( Monica Cabrera/The Morning Call ) Lehigh 's Joshua Ingram looks to score against Lafayette 's Luka Savicevic on Thursday , March 7 , 2024 , during a Patriot League men 's quarterfinal basketball game at Kirby Sports Center in Easton . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) <p> Lafayette 's Ryan Pettit drives against Lehigh 's Keith Higgins Jr . on Thursday , March 7 , 2024 , during a Patriot League men 's quarterfinal basketball game at Kirby Sports Center in Easton . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Siblings Luna , 6 , and Forrest , 6 , both of Whitehall play with Paige Nawarynski , 11 , who is dressed as a Christmas elf-like character Thursday , Nov. 21 , 2024 , during the Special Needs/Handicap Night at Lights in Greenawalds in South Whitehall Township . The free event , in partnership with the ARC of Lehigh and Northampton Counties , features quieter music , dimmer lights , and popcorn , hot chocolate , candy and chocolate . The next Special Needs/Handicap Night at Lights in Greenawalds is 5-8 p.m . Dec. 5 . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) The crowd listens as Songwriter , actor and " Hamilton " star Lin-Manuel Miranda speaks during a Vote Early Party on Wednesday , Oct. 30 , 2024 , at the Puerto Rican Beneficial Society of Bethlehem . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) <p> A monarch butterfly flits in the rows of flowers Sunday , Oct. 6 , 2024 , during the ninth annual Monocacy Farm Food Festival in Bethlehem . The festival included a nature walk , activities , live music and a farm tour . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Artsquest audio engineer Scott Dean works with local band Ruby Dear to teach Lehigh Valley high school students what a sound check is Monday , April 15 , 2024 , during Music Industry Day with ArtsQuest in Bethlehem . Students spent the day learning about marking and programming in the music industry . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Nazareth 's Jack Campbell wrestles Northampton 's Chase Grabfelder in the 145-pound weight class on Wednesday , Jan. 3 , 2024 , during a wrestling match in Northampton . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) <p> Bethlehem Catholic 's Hailey Pyle pitches to Nazareth on Tuesday , May 7 , 2024 , during a softball game Nazareth . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Local dignitaries and others attend a beam signing Tuesday , Sept. 10 , 2024 , in Allentown at the construction site of the Neuweiler Lofts . The former brewery is just one project being redeveloped along the city 's riverfront . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Mandi Caskey paints a swamp woman themed mural on Friday , Sept. 6 , 2024 , on at " The Path , " a new pedestrian alley at 932 Hamilton St. in Allentown . Seventeen artists worked on different murals along the alleyway . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) <p> The artist El Souls creates a mural depicting characters from comic books and anime Friday , Sept. 6 , 2024 , on The Path , a new pedestrian alley at 932 Hamilton St. in Allentown . Seventeen artists worked on different murals along the alleyway . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Northwestern Lehigh wins against Avonworth on Saturday , Dec. 7 , 2024 , during the PIAA 3A football championship game at Cumberland Valley High School 's Chapman Field in Mechanicsburg , Pa . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Northwestern Lehigh 's Landen Matson catches the ball against Avonworth 's Billy Onyshko on Saturday , Dec. 7 , 2024 , during the PIAA 3A football championship game at Cumberland Valley High School 's Chapman Field in Mechanicsburg , Pa . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) <p> Parkland 's Charlie Epstein completes a dive Wednesday , Jan. 3 , 2024 , during a swimming and diving meet against Northampton in Northampton . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Parkland 's Andrew Beers competes in the 400-meter hurdles on Wednesday , March 20 , 2024 , during a track and field meet against Freedom at Parkland High School . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Brayden , a patient at Lehigh Valley Reilly Children 's Hospital , gives the JustBorn Peep Chick a high-five as the chick visits his room Wednesday , May 22 , 2024 , in Salisbury Township , during the hospital 's 12th birthday celebration . <p> Southern Lehigh 's Sean Steckert runs with the ball against Pottsville 's Shay Strencosky on Thursday , Nov. 7 , 2024 , during a District 11 Class 4A semifinal football game in Center Valley . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Lehigh 's Ryan Crookham wrestles Penn State 's Braeden Davis in the 133- pound weight class Sunday , Dec.8 , 2024 , during a college wrestling match at PPL Center in Allentown . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Ibtihal Gassem , a first year Lehigh University student hols a flag in support of Palestine . Students and community members gathered Friday , May 3 , 2024 in solidarity with student protests around the country , Lehigh University students hosted a " Solidarity Week for Palestine . " The week of peaceful activities included art-making , film screenings , an interfaith vigil &amp; a Palestinian cultural festival -- all of which culminated in the rally on Lehigh 's campus . ( Monica Cabrera/The Morning Call ) <p> Students and community members gathered Friday , May 3 , 2024 in solidarity with student protests around the country , Lehigh University students hosted a " Solidarity Week for Palestine . " The week of peaceful activities included art-making , film screenings , an interfaith vigil &amp; a Palestinian cultural festival -- all of which culminated in the rally on Lehigh 's campus . ( Monica Cabrera/The Morning Call ) A Devanshi dance is performed Saturday , Jan. 27 , 2024 , during the celebration of Republic Day of India hosted by the Indian American Association of the Lehigh Valley at Cedar Crest College in Allentown . The celebration included dances , musical performances and vocal solos . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Mahima Rampla , 12 , of Allentown performs a Maha Ganapatim dance with others Saturday , Jan. 27 , 2024 , during the celebration of Republic Day of India hosted by the Indian American Association of the Lehigh Valley at Cedar Crest College in Allentown . The celebration included dances , musical performances and vocal solos . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) <p> Rick Anderson , president and CEO of St. Luke 's University Health Network poses in his office Friday , April 5 , 2024 , in Bethlehem . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Amaiya Kavachery , a student at Lehigh Career Technical Institute , is overcome with emotion ecstatic as she is awarded a full-tuition scholarship to Cedar Crest College Tuesday , April 9 , 2024 , at LCTI in North Whitehall Township . Kavachery was the winner of the college 's annual scholarship competition , and was presented with her full-tuition prize , flowers and an appearance from Franki the Falcon . ( Monica Cabrera/The Morning Call ) Maya , 2 , and Ojas , 6 , play at the Scribble Scrubbie area Monday , Sept. 23 , 2024 , during the Screamin ' Green Hauntoween at Crayola Experience in Easton . Screamin ' Green Hauntoween , a Halloween-themed event with a scavenger hunt , crafts and photo opportunities , runs through Oct. 31 . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) <p> A person walks with an umbrella during the rain Tuesday , March 5 , 2024 , in Easton . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Faith Brown of Bethlehem pulls Max and Hannah of Hellertown in a sled after a fun day in the snow Friday , Jan. 19 , 2024 , on Juniper Street in the borough . Brown is a nanny for the children . ( Monica Cabrera/The Morning Call ) People enjoy trick-or-treating Thursday , Oct. 24 , 2024 , during IronPigs Charities ' annual Suites ' N ' Treats event at Coca-Cola Park in Allentown . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) <p> Papi , a Chihuahua , competes Sunday , June 2 , 2024 , in the SteelStacks Chihuahua Beauty Contest with owner Cheryl Urban of Bethlehem during TacoFest at SteelStacks in Bethlehem . The event features tacos , live music , the SteelStacks Chihuahua Beauty Contest and more . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Mariachi Pedro performs Sunday , June 2 , 2024 , during TacoFest at SteelStacks in Bethlehem . The event features tacos , live music , the SteelStacks Chihuahua Beauty Contest and more . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Mariachi Pedro performs Sunday , June 2 , 2024 , during TacoFest at SteelStacks in Bethlehem . The event features tacos , live music , the SteelStacks Chihuahua Beauty Contest and more . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) <p> Teachers Christie Johnston , Cynthia Vinovskis and Rebecca Zawarski watch as Delwin Elk Bear Fiddler , founder of Paza , Tree of Life , dances with hoops during a presentation Thursday , May 9 , 2024 . The event was part of a Teachers ' Night Out hosted by the National Museum of Industrial History in Bethlehem and organized by Lehigh Valley Passport to History , a partnership of area historic sites . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Matt Whitaker the former acting U.S. attorney general under Donald Trump , speaks Monday , Oct. 21 , 2024 , at a Team Trump Bus Tour stop in the Valley Family Restaurant parking lot in Bethlehem Township . The tour comes 15 days before the Nov. 5 election as both Republicans and Democrats make their final push to win what is expected to be a very close race in Pennsylvania , which could be the decisive state in winning the White House . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Supporters of Republican presidential candidate former President Donald Trump have signed the Team Trump Tour Buses , the tour stopped Monday , Oct. 21 , 2024 , in the Valley Family Restaurant parking lot in Bethlehem Township . The tour comes 15 days before the Nov. 5 election as both Republicans and Democrats make their final push to win what is expected to be a very close race in Pennsylvania , which could be the decisive state in winning the White House . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) <p> People line up to pay for their groceries Wednesday , July 10 , 2024 , with a $59.08 gift voucher given to them by The Libre Initiative , a nonprofit affiliated with the billionaire Koch brothers that aims to attract Latino voters to the Republican Party . The first 100 shoppers during the event at Bravo Meat Market in Allentown received the vouchers to provide relief from the higher cost of groceries due to inflation . ( Monica Cabrera/The Morning Call ) Emmaus ' Kyle Moore competes in the Boys Long Jump event Wednesday , May 8 , 2024 , during the EPC and Colonial League Track &amp; Field Championships at Whitehall High School . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Easton 's Jayden Ekoko competes in the boys long jump event Wednesday , May 15 , 2024 , at the District 11 Track &amp; Field Championships at Blue Mountain High School in North Manheim Township , Schuylkill County . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) <p> Chris Stofanak , left , of Bethlehem Township and Robby Killey of Easton deliver two voting machines Thursday , Oct. 31 , 2024 , to Lower Saucon United Church of Christ and other polling places in Hellertown ahead of Election Day , which is Tuesday , Nov. 5 , 2024 . ( Monica Cabrera/The Morning Call ) Democratic vice presidential nominee Gov . Tim Walz holds a rally on Saturday , Sept. 21 , 2024 , at Freedom High School in Bethlehem Township . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) Brandon Horninger , left to right , Michael K. Horninger , Lexi Horninger and Ziggie , their dog , were the second in line Thursday , Feb. 8 , 2024 for the opening of the new drive-thru Wawa at 6216 Hamilton Blvd. in Allentown . Hope Schafer , a supervisor at Wawa , serves them their order at the drive-thru window . According to the Horninger family , Wawa has been a part of their entire lives and they have eaten breakfast , lunch , dinner and late night snacks with friends at Wawa . According to Lexi Horninger , Wawa is better than Sheetz and " I 'll fight anyone who says differently , " she said playfully . The first 100 customers at Thursday 's opening received a free T-shirt then witnessed a ceremony including a celebratory grand entrance by the new store team , a hoagie-building competition between the Lower Macungie Fire department and Macungie Ambulance and a ribbon-cutting with the corporate mascot , Wally Goose . ( Monica Cabrera/The Morning Call ) <p> Using an umbrella to shield herself from the rain Maggie Frost of Bethlehem walks under a canopy of blooming flowers on a tree Tuesday , April 2 , 2024 , in the city . A senior fitness instructor at the YMCA , Frost was walking after her class and wore a heavier jacket than usual because of the weather . The rain is expected to continue most of Wednesday with a chance of showers Thursday , according to the National Weather Service . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Raindrops are seen on daffodils Tuesday , April 2 , 2024 , in Bethlehem . April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) A fallen cherry blossom is seen in a puddle during heavy rains Tuesday , April 2 , 2024 , in Bethlehem . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) <p> Jayden , a lifeguard at Irving Pool in Allentown , watches swimmers Wednesday , July 10 , 2024 . The pool 's lifeguards rotate every 20 minutes to help keep cool and alert . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) President Joe Biden visits Friday , Jan. 12 , 2024 , with owners and staff of Emmaus Run Inn in Emmaus . The president visited the Lehigh Valley to meet with small business owners and highlight his economic agenda . ( April Gamiz / The Morning Call ) President Joe Biden greets Allentown firefighters Friday , Jan. 12 , 2024 , at the Mack South Fire Station in Allentown . The president visited the Lehigh Valley to talk with small business owners and highlight his economic agenda . ( April Gamiz / The Morning Call ) ( April Gamiz / The Morning Call ) 
@@119316219 <p> Oakland police Officer Tuan Le , 36 , was fatally shot in Dec. 2023 while working an undercover burglary operation at a cannabis grow house where marijuana plants had been stolen in previous burglaries that night . Thousands remembered his life and service during a memorial held for him in January . <p> A public memorial service was held Wednesday morning for slain Oakland police Officer Tuan Le . Bob Redell reports . <p> A day after the aforementioned Tahoe avalanche , a second avalanche struck near where the skier was killed . No employees or guests were injured , though ski patrol searched the area with probes , beacons and a dog team . <p> As part of a company-wide initiative to close 150 stores nationwide , Macy 's in February announced that it was looking to close and sell the Macy 's San Francisco Union Square property . This comes as another loss to San Francisco 's retail industry , on top of Westfield 's plan to give up its mall along Market Street at $1.2 million . Mayor London Breed deflected claims that theft was a big reason why the retailer is choosing to leave the iconic location . <p> After Macy 's announced Tuesday it will close 150 stores nationwide , San Francisco Mayor London Breed said the company is looking to sell its Union Square property . Kris Sanchez reports . <p> A tire fell off a United Airlines plane taking off from San Francisco International Airport in March , damaging several vehicles in a nearby airport employee parking lot . The Japan-bound flight was diverted to Los Angeles . <p> A tire fell off a United Airlines plane taking off from San Francisco International Airport Thursday morning and landed in a nearby parking lot , damaging several vehicles , officials said . Sergio Quintana and Ian Cull report . <p> Dozens of activists protesting the war in Gaza shut down the Golden Gate Bridge on a mid-April morning , halting the commute into San Francisco and resulting in multiple arrests . The protesters stopped their vehicles and blocked all southbound lanes of the span , demanding that the U.S. stop arming and funding Israel , organizers said . <p> Gaza war protestors on the Golden Gate Bridge chained themselves to each other , and also to their cars Monday , causing gridlock in San Francisco , as well as Marin County . Sergio Quintana reports . <p> San Francisco Giants legend and baseball Hall of Famer Willie Mays died in June . He was 93 . The two-time Major League Baseball most valuable player and 24-time All-Star is regarded by many as one of the best baseball players ever . <p> San Francisco Giants legend and baseball Hall of Famer Willie Mays has died , the team and his family announced Tuesday . He was 93 . Ginger Conejero Saab reports . <p> Federal agents searched the home of Oakland Mayor Sheng Thao in June , along with several properties owned by men linked to a recycling company that contracts with the city . Law enforcement sources told NBC Bay Area there were four search warrant executions in Oakland as part of a larger operation . Agencies involved in the warrant operation included the FBI , IRS , and United States Postal Inspection Service , a source told NBC News . <p> Velena Jones and Christie Smith provides the latest on an FBI investigation that includes searching Oakland Mayor Sheng Thao 's home . <p> Kamala Harris made history on the last night of the 2024 Democratic National Convention in August , becoming the first Black and South Asian woman named the presidential nominee of a major party . In her speech , the Bay Area native touched on her local roots and how coming from a middle-class family influences her decisions . <p> Kamala Harris became the first woman elected vice president of the United States , and officially the first Black and South Asian woman named the presidential nominee of a major party . Damian Trujillo has the latest from the Democratic National Convention in Chicago . <p> A 47-year-old mother and her 14-year-old son were killed in a wrong-way crash on Highway 85 in San Jose in late August . The boy , identified by his father as Charlie , and his mother , Rebecca Joanne Olsen , were heading northbound on Highway 85 near Highway 87 when they were struck head-on by a pickup truck driver going the wrong way on the highway . Rebecca and Charlie died at the scene . The pickup truck driver was taken to a hospital with major injuries . <p> The father of a 14-year-old boy who was killed Monday in a wrong-way crash on Highway 85 in San Jose released a statement Thursday , calling his child " the most incredible young man . " Robert Handa reports . <p> San Francisco 49ers first-round draft pick Ricky Pearsall was shot in the chest during an attempted robbery in San Francisco 's Union Square in August . After recovering , Pearsall made his NFL debut in October . <p> San Francisco 49ers first-round pick Ricky Pearsall was shot during an attempted robbery in San Francisco 's Union Square on Saturday . Marianne Favro has the latest on how the wide receiver is doing . <p> In September , the Oakland Athletics went out with a win in their final scheduled game at the Coliseum . Fans chanted " Sell the team ! " and " Let 's go Oakland ! " amid the mixed emotions and nostalgia at the Coliseum , where the A 's had played since 1968 . The A 's plan to play the next three years in Sacramento with hopes of opening a new ballpark in Las Vegas ahead of the 2028 season . <p> Friendships , championships , first dates and fireworks : A 's fans did n't hold back their tears as the team that brought them a lifetime of memories played its final game at the Oakland Coliseum . <p> A Bay Area veteran said she was removed from a Delta Air Lines flight at San Francisco International Airport in October because of the T-shirt she was wearing . The shirt read , " Do not give in to the war within . End veteran suicide . " <p> A Bay Area veteran said she was shocked and humiliated after being kicked off a Delta flight at San Francisco International Airport because of a T-shirt she was wearing . Jocelyn Moran reports . <p> A five-alarm brush fire near Interstate 580 sparked evacuation orders in the Oakland Hills in October amid a red flag warning . Over 500 residents were evacuated and at least two homes were impacted by the flames , but no injuries were reported . Firefighters were able to contain the fire within three days . <p> A five-alarm brush fire near Interstate 580 in the Oakland Hills burned multiple homes and sparked an evacuation order impacting hundreds . Thom Jensen and Jocelyn Moran have the latest details . <p> Bay Area voters made their voices heard in the November election , recalling Oakland Mayor Sheng Thao and Alameda County District Attorney Pamela Price , electing Daniel Lurie as the next mayor of San Francisco , and sending former San Jose Mayor Sam Liccardo to Congress as the 16th District representative . <p> Disgraced San Jose Councilman Omar Torres resigned in early November after his arrest on suspicion of sex crimes involving minors . Filling his vacated seat will be up to voters after the city council voted in favor of a special election . <p> Embattled San Jose Councilmember Omar Torres was arrested Tuesday after a person contacted police on Monday , reporting a sexual assault involving Torres years ago , according to police . Robert Handa reports . <p> Three college students from the East Bay were killed in a fiery crash in Piedmont the day before Thanksgiving . Another student was injured in the solo-vehicle wreck . <p> The city of Piedmont has released statements and identified three young victims of a fatal wreck of a Tesla Cybertruck that occurred early Wednesday morning , devastating the community a day before Thanksgiving . <p> A series of high-magnitude earthquakes struck Northern California in December , including a magnitude 7.0 offshore in the Pacific Ocean that triggered a tsunami warning along coastal areas from Santa Cruz into Oregon . Aftershocks were also felt in Sacramento and the Bay Area . The tsunami warnings sent phone alerts across the Bay Area , but areas like Half Moon Bay and San Francisco held off on turning the sirens on . <p> In the aftermath of a 7.0 magnitude earthquake off the Northern California coast , the ground continued to shake 24 hours later and authorities across the entire region were assessing the response . Kris Sanchez reports . <p> Following days of deliberations , a San Francisco jury in mid-December found tech consultant Nima Momeni guilty of second-degree murder in the 2023 stabbing death of Cash App founder Bob Lee . Momeni faces 16 years to life in prison . <p> After seven days of deliberations , a San Francisco jury on Tuesday found Nima Momeni guilty of second-degree murder in the fatal stabbing of Cash App founder Bob Lee last year . Sergio Quintana , Ginger Conejero Saab and Scott Budman report . 
@@119316911 <p> Why Minnesota Democratic chair Ken Martin thinks he can shape the DNCKen Martin helped turn around the Minnesota Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party 's finances and secure a streak of statewide wins for the party over 18 years . Now , he wants to do the same thing for the Democratic National Committee . <h> Minn . Democratic party chair says his wins could help nationally after loss to Trump <p> Minnesota Sen. Amy Klobuchar stands with state Democratic Party Chairman Ken Martin before speaking at the election night watch party on Nov. 5 in St. Paul . Abbie Parr/AP hide caption <p> toggle caption <p> Abbie Parr/AP <p> ST . PAUL -- In nearly 14 years atop Minnesota 's Democratic Party , Ken Martin has endured bleak outlooks , deep internal party divisions and some close calls . But in his tenure , he 's never had to explain away a loss on his watch in a statewide race . <p> That 's because there were n't any . <p> It 's a selling point Martin is driving home in his bid to lead the Democratic National Committee . He 's also stressing his success in raising money for the party , working with state party leaders as a longtime leader of a Democratic chairs group and offering the appeal of being from the nation 's heartland , where Democrats are in desperate need of a rebound . <p> Following Vice President Harris ' loss at the top of the ticket , the Democratic National Committee is looking for a new leader that can move the party forward . And members will meet in Maryland late next month to size up their options . <p> Martin , the current DNC vice chair , is viewed as a frontrunner in the race . Martin says he 's confident he can turn things around for Democrats across the country . <p> " I think there 's a lot of folks in D.C. who are interested in winning the argument , and I 'm interested in winning elections . That 's why I 'm running , " Martin said . " It 's what we 've done here in Minnesota . And I think we have a recipe for success that we can bring to the national party . " <p> Martin took the helm of the Minnesota Democratic Party , known as the Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party , in 2011 . Despite having just won the governor 's office for the first time in decades , the party was in debt and at times viewed as adrift . Martin brought party leaders , advocacy groups and activists together and set a new trajectory . <p> Fast-forward to today , the party is in a strong financial position and has n't lost a statewide race since 2006 . Martin says that 's what sets him apart from other contenders , like neighboring Wisconsin Democratic Party Chair Ben Wikler . Former Maryland Gov . Martin O'Malley and New York state Sen. James Skoufis are also in the running . <p> Sponsor Message <p> " What it 's going to take to get us back on track is someone who 's already done that work of turning around a party that had low morale and was trying to figure out a path forward , " Martin said . <p> Wikler 's supporters say there would be a benefit in selecting a leader from a swing state on the frontlines of campaigning in tight elections . <p> But Martin said he 's thinking broader than that . Martin said the DNC needsto refocus its energy and outreach efforts by engaging state Democratic parties across the country . That means getting people on the ground for year-round voter interaction -- and recruiting candidates for races at all levels . <p> He also said the party needs a messaging make-over , as well as a new approach to where Democrats are directing those messages . Martin said they need to expand their scope to include more podcasts , social media channels and a broader scope of news outlets . <p> " The majority of Americans now believe that the Republican Party best represents the interests of the working class and the poor , and the Democrats are for the wealthy and the elite . That 's a damning indictment on our party , and clearly our brand as Democrats , " Martin said . " We 've got to get back to reestablishing our brand in the eyes of voters , and part of that is connecting our very popular policy prescription with our candidates and our party . " <p> To that end , Martin said Democrats need to remind voters that they are the ones pushing policies like a higher minimum wage , enhanced worker protections and paid family and medical leave benefits around the country -- not Republicans . <p> " We 're fighting for people , people who are working harder than they ever have before , " he said . " And we have to get back to basics . " <p> Grant Reeher , a political science professor at Syracuse University , said Martin 's pitch makes sense for Democrats in this moment . <p> " They need to try something different , " Reeher said . " They need to perhaps get back to their older roots as a Democratic Party and emphasize the economic issues more clearly and be less identity-focused . " <p> For his part , Martin said the party can do both . He said defending marginalized groups should n't detract from a message aimed at working-class Americans . <p> Minnesota Attorney General Keith Ellison said Martin will have a strong shot if he takes Minnesota Democrats ' mantra -- " we all do better when we all do better " -- to the national stage . <p> " If he carries the Minnesota message to the U.S. , I think that the Democratic Party will have this kind of success that Minnesota has enjoyed from a DFL perspective , " said Ellison , who ran for the DNC chair position with Martin 's support in 2017 . He ultimately became the deputy chair . <p> Sponsor Message <p> Dan Engelhart was an Uncommitted delegate to the Democratic National Convention , a movement that protested the Biden administration 's handling of the war in Gaza . Despite disagreements with Martin over the party platform , Engelhart said Martin is the best candidate in the running . <p> " I think he would be a good fit . ... He was certainly fair to us as the uncommitted delegation , " Engelhart said . " We were treated fairly , and that 's what really matters , given the general mindset towards the uncommitted delegation at the DNC ( Democratic National Convention ) . " <p> Republicans in Minnesota also acknowledge that Martin has been a force in building up the Democratic Party there . <p> " We are very evenly divided politically , but I think the DFL has built a pretty strong organization , " said Minnesota Republican Party Chair David Hann . " I think you have to give Ken Martin a lot of credit for that . " <p> The DNC is expected to pick its new leader after a series of candidate forums next month . Until then , Martin is hoping to make the case that it should follow the Minnesota model . 
@@119316915 <p> Saint Levant 's music is a tribute to what was lost in GazaSaint Levant has sold out U.S. and European venues with his album ' Deira , ' an ode to his heritage and the Gaza hotel his father built that was destroyed by an Israeli airstrike . <p> WASHINGTON , D.C. -- The 9:30 Club in Washington , D.C. , is known for its eclectic concerts , but it 's rare to see the venue draped in Palestinian flags and keffiyehs . The artist Saint Levant performed to a sold-out crowd in a night of celebration and reflection on Gaza . <p> Marwan Abdelhamid , who performs as Saint Levant , is a 24-year-old musician blending North African and Arab influences with rock , hip-hop , and R&amp;B . Born in Jerusalem and partly raised in Gaza , he has a French-Algerian mother and a Palestinian-Serbian father . This year , he performed at Coachella as one of the few mainstream U.S. artists who references the war in Gaza . <p> Sponsor Message <p> Saint Levant 's journey reflects what it means to create music and represent a Palestinian identity on a global stage while facing the direct outcome of war from far away and the public expectations that come with it . Before 2022 , his music was mostly political , rapping about his life dealing with checkpoints and military occupation in Jerusalem , the West Bank , and Gaza . Back then , he was more of a social media personality performing in sweaty basements . Later , he shifted to more personal themes of him falling in and out of love . His song " Very Few Friends " in 2022 went very viral on TikTok and got millions of streams on Spotify . This transition matched his new image , making him a 2023 Dior 's new fragrance ambassador and one of GQ 's Men of the Year . Now with the ongoing war in Gaza , he 's grappling with destruction while creating new music . <p> Fans help one another in wrapping a black-and-white keffiyeh , a traditional scarf that symbolizes solidarity with the Palestinian cause . Farrah Skeiky for NPR hide caption <p> toggle caption <p> Farrah Skeiky for NPR <p> Last week , Abdelhamid finished a U.S. tour of his latest album , Deira , named after an iconic hotel his father built on Gaza 's seashore in the 1990s . <p> Now based in California , the young musician 's lyrics in French , English and Arabic give his work crossover appeal . " I think he 's very cute . He 's hot . He 's also a young man from Gaza who 's vocal about his principles , " said concertgoer Dima Alkakan . <p> Sponsor Message <p> Danny Hajjar , a music journalist focused on diaspora artists , described Abdelhamid 's latest album and D.C. tour as a moment of growth . " Since the war started , it seems like he 's found a balance between his role as an artist who grew up in Gaza with a massive platform and his persona as a loverboy who 's seen as sexy , " Hajjar said . <p> The songs that he played on the tour reminded me of the international mixes that played in the hotel 's dining hall . I grew up in Gaza and lived near this distinct reddish-colored hotel with its 22 rooms made of mud , each featuring a different tile design that is handmade . It was one of the rare hubs for both locals and foreigners . It was a refuge from Gaza 's hardships -- a place to relax , smoke hookah , enjoy the seafood and the Mediterranean beach view . <p> " You know , when you dream and revisit places from your childhood , it 's always Deira for me . Always , " Abdelhamid said . " For me , it 's like , oh my god , it 's a castle . But it 's really not . And I know there were n't that many rooms either . It was kind of , in a way , a boutique hotel , " he added , pausing to ask if I agreed with his memory -- or his description -- since he left Gaza when he was just 7 years old . <p> " I think he 's very cute . He 's hot . He 's also a young man from Gaza who 's vocal about his principles , " said concertgoer Dima Alkakan . Farrah Skeiky for NPR hide caption <p> While Abdelhamid 's question to me carries an artistic nostalgia , mine is tied to covering the 2014 war and reflecting on how international coverage of Gaza has evolved since . Al Deira , one of only a few hotels in Gaza City , was the base for many journalists covering conflicts , including the tragic killing of four children by an Israeli strike -- a scene that was witnessed by foreign journalists from the hotel 's seafront-terrace , just yards away . Since the start of this war , foreign journalists have been barred from entering Gaza unless they consent to a limited and highly restrictive tour conducted by Israel 's military . <p> Sponsor Message <p> Abdelhamid began working on his album before the war , which began after the Hamas-led Oct. 7 attack on Israel that killed about 1,200 people , according to authorities there . <p> Israel 's military has killed more than 45,000 Palestinians , according to Gaza 's officials . <p> " Deira was bombed in November of 2023 . The terracotta colors are still there , but the inside is all bombed . This is the reality of being Palestinian , specifically from Gaza . You see things that you love get destroyed , " Abdelhamid said . <p> " My music is super personal , but as a Palestinian , my very existence is political , " Abdelhamid said . Farrah Skeiky for NPR hide caption <p> toggle caption <p> Farrah Skeiky for NPR <p> What started as a nostalgic project became a meditation on ruins and the foundation for his album . <p> Here is an extended version of our backstage interview with Saint Levant . <p> This interview has been slightly edited for clarity and length . <p> On the process of writing his song " Deira , " inspired by the hotel his father built in Gaza that was later destroyed : <p> Saint Levant : The song was inspired by Algerian cha ? bi music , specifically an artist called Dahmane El Harrachi . But I wanted to put my own twist on it . That comes from my relationship with both Algeria and Palestine -- so for me , the sound draws from Algeria , while the lyrics are inspired by Palestinian culture and dialect . My heritage is a bit unique . I 'd say I 'm like a cocktail : my mom is French and Algerian , and my dad is Palestinian and Serbian . So I 'm 1/4 of each . I was born in Jerusalem , raised in Gaza , and went to an American school . I speak Arabic with my friends , French at home , and English in America . Take all of that , put it into one person , bring them into the studio , and you get something like " Deira . " <p> On how he transformed nostalgia , which had turned into ruins , into a new project : <p> SL : After the hotel 's destruction , I see my songs and performance as a statement to the world : we are human . My song " Deira " captures the joys and sorrows of being Palestinian . Our identity is complex -- we 're not just political symbols or a stereotype of Arabs with little red hats . During the war in Gaza , I had friends calling me to talk about breaking up with their partners . <p> Sponsor Message <p> The concept of the album is a journey back to Gaza . We will return and rebuild . When I performed at Coachella , I explained the concept of this album . " Deira , " you know , looks like a hotel but it 's me and my dad walking into the hotel to do a performance . Right now , it 's science fiction in a way , but I 'm very inspired by Afrofuturism . Afrofuturism was a response to institutional racism . Science fiction has always been told through a white lens , and I like to use science fiction to imagine this return to Deira to do a concert in a liberated Palestine . That 's the concept for me : Deira is rebuilt , and it 's the opening . We are living in a liberated Palestine , and our kids are running around in the sand , trying to catch fish with their bare hands -- just like I used to do when I was a kid . <p> SL : A year and a half ago , we were doing shows for 150-200 people in sweaty basements -- it was just me and my guy , Henry . Now we 're doing 3,000 people in New York with full tech rehearsals , lighting , sound engineers , and a whole team . It 's been such a crazy transition , and I 've been catching up with it while pushing myself harder . I 'm never satisfied -- it drives me to grow , but also keeps me looking ahead . Even now , with 2,000-3,000 people shows , I 'm already thinking about the next phase : 5,000 to 7,000 . My mom reminds me to be present , so I try to pause and take it in , but it 's been a wild ride . <p> On being a loverboy after his breakout song " Very Few Friends " : <p> SL : I think I just made a song with a deep voice over an R&amp;B beat , talking about a lady , and people were like , " Oh , this is it . " I do n't like to label myself , but yeah , I am a loverboy . I love deeply -- not just romantically but also my friends , family , and craft . Everything I do comes from the heart , and I think people connect with that because they see I 'm emotional and not afraid to step outside the box of what an Arab guy is " supposed " to do . That 's from my dad -- he never cared what people thought and was into all kinds of random things . I 'm curious , eclectic even . That 's the right word , right ? Eclectic ? <p> " The concept of the album is a journey back to Gaza . We will return and rebuild , " Abdelhamid said . Farrah Skeiky for NPR hide caption <p> toggle caption <p> Farrah Skeiky for NPR <p> On how the war changed his approach to music : <p> SL : As Palestinian artists , we 've all been deeply affected by what has been happening in Gaza over the past year . Because at the end of the day , it is a bit tough to continue to make art , and while your brothers and sisters are suffering and are being displaced , and they 're living in tents , and you 're calling them , and they have no internet , and you 're scared . All Palestinians everywhere have been affected by this kind of survivor 's guilt , in a way . But my mom always tells me that my existence is resistance . For me , continuing to show up every day is more important now than ever . As an artist , I want to be careful , and I want to be sensitive . But for me , this war has only reaffirmed that our voice needs to be louder than ever . I believe the world is waking up to the atrocities that the Israeli occupation has been committing -- not just since October 7 , but over the past 75 years . People are just beginning to understand , and I truly believe a shift in the status quo is coming . Art is a part of that shift , and I think we are witnessing the birth of this new generation 's movement . At the same time , my music is super personal but as a Palestinian , my very existence is political , so I ca n't help that -- but it 's really just whatever is on my mind that day . I can make a song about anything I want . I 've never put any limits on myself . That comes from my dad , who always told me : never put a limit on yourself . Do whatever you want to do , and if you make a mistake , say sorry and keep working . <p> Sponsor Message <p> This interview was edited for radio by Adam Bearne and produced by Milton Guevara . It was edited for digital by Obed Manuel . 
@@119342614 <h> Please contact your publisher to upgrade your subscription . <p> Shown here is a maroon Subaru Forester that crashed into the front porch of 2 S. Eighth St. , Shamokin , at 9:53 a.m . Thursday . A fire ignited in the engine compartment of the vehicle , but was quickly extinguished . The driver was extricated and transported by AREA Services for treatment . <p> Mackenzie Witt / MACKENZIE WITT/STAFF PHOTO <p> Shamokin Patrolman Ethan Roughton , center , observes a maroon Subaru Forester that crashed into the front porch of 2 S. Eighth St. , Shamokin , at 9:53 a.m . Thursday . A fire ignited in the engine compartment of the vehicle , but was quickly extinguished . The driver was extricated and transported by AREA Services for treatment . Police said the crash is still under investigation . <p> Mackenzie Witt / MACKENZIE WITT/STAFF PHOTO <p> Shamokin Police Chief Raymond Siko II , right , and Battalion Fire Chief Bruce Rogers hang caution tape across the front of 2 S. Eighth St. , Shamokin , after a maroon Subaru Forester that crashed into the porch was removed from the scene . A fire ignited in the engine compartment of the vehicle shortly after the crash , but was quickly extinguished . The driver was extricated and transported by AREA Services for treatment . <p> Mackenzie Witt / MACKENZIE WITT/STAFF PHOTO <p> SHAMOKIN -- City police are investigating a crash involving a maroon Subaru Forester that drove into the porch of a home near the intersection of Eighth and Chestnut streets Thursday morning . <p> A fire ignited in the vehicle 's engine compartment shortly after it crashed into the porch at 2 S. Eighth St. , Shamokin . <p> Shamokin Battalion Fire Chief Bruce Rogers said he saw at least four neighbors using fire extinguishers to keep the fire at bay until firefighters arrived on the scene and properly extinguished the fire with a water hose . <p> He added that quick response from neighbors and firefighters prevented the fire from spreading to the house or the coal bin beneath the porch . <p> The male driver was confined and unable to exit the vehicle on his own accord , so fire personnel lowered the back seats and removed him from the car , according to Rogers . <p> AREA Services transported him to Geisinger Medical Center for treatment . <p> Chief of Police Raymond Siko II has n't released the driver 's name because he is unsure if medical staff had alerted the driver 's family of the crash . <p> The driver 's condition is unknown at this time , he added . Siko said the driver was still receiving treatment when he spoke with medical staff Thursday . <p> Jeremy Ressler , 34 , said he was asleep on the couch inside 2 S. Eighth St. and woke up when he felt the house " jolt . " <p> He initially thought a tree had fallen onto the house and looked up at the awning above the porch for damage from the front door . <p> Ressler did n't immediately see the Subaru that crashed into the porch directly outside the front door until he looked down and saw smoke coming from the engine compartment . <p> " I told the neighbors to call 911 , " he said . <p> The Subaru Forester sustained extensive front-end damage , including a broken windshield and crumpled engine hood . The driver and passenger sides of the vehicle bore white scrapes . The back driver-side door was harshly dented and scraped . <p> The vehicle was towed from the scene . <p> Police officers used a measuring tape to calculate the length of black and white skid marks that ran up part of North Eighth Street and across North Chestnut Street . <p> Siko said the nature and cause of the crash have yet to be determined , but an investigation is underway . <p> More information about this incident will be reported as it becomes available . <h> Mother Cabrini preparing for Holy Year Jubilee this weekend <p> Mother Cabrini Church parishioner and musician Dennis Bobber adjusts garland and bows positioned around a poster commemorating the Holy Year Jubilee that hangs from the choir balcony . The church , along with other Catholic churches around the world , will begin celebrating the Holy Year this weekend . <p> Mackenzie Witt / MACKENZIE WITT/STAFF PHOTO <p> SHAMOKIN -- Mother Cabrini Church , much like other Catholic churches across the globe , is prepared to ring in the 2025 Holy Year this weekend . <p> Parishioner and musician Dennis Bobber spent the better part of Thursday morning hanging banners emblazoned with " Year of the Jubilee " throughout the church . <p> Weekend Masses at Mother Cabrini Church will feature special hymns and symbols , along with other activities throughout the year to commemorate the Jubilee . <p> According to the Associated Press , a Holy Year is typically celebrated every 25 to 50 years and is a centuries-old tradition in which parishioners make pilgrimages to Rome to visit the tombs of Saints Peter and Paul and receive indulgences for the forgiveness of their sins . <p> The last regular Jubilee was in 2000 , but Pope Francis declared a special Jubilee in 2015 and 2016 dedicated to mercy . <p> The next special Jubilee is slated for 2033 to commemorate the anniversary of the crucifixion of Christ . <p> The 2025 Holy Year 's theme is " hope , " Bobber said . <p> He said of the theme , " It symbolizes that we 're all on a journey in renewing ourselves , seeking mercy , giving grace and exercising love and charity . " <p> He added that Francis 's emphasis for the theme is that all members of the Church are pilgrims , and if they ca n't make the journey to Rome , they can still go to local churches or shrines . <p> Bobber said the weekend Masses at Mother Cabrini Church will begin at the front doors of the parish . <p> Doors are very symbolic in the Catholic Church , he added . <p> " It 's where we receive people seeking to become Catholic , or where we greet those to be baptized . In the revised rite of marriage , doors are where the priest meets the bride and groom . At the end of our earthly journey , it 's where we greet our deceased , " Bobber said . <p> During the Christmas Eve Mass in Vatican City , Francis pushed open the Holy Door on St. Peter 's Basilica . The doors will remain open throughout 2025 to allow millions of pilgrims visiting Rome to pass through . <p> Bobber said he was fortunate enough to visit Rome in June and people were already working on renovating and revitalizing different landmarks in preparation for the upcoming Holy Year . <h> City fire marshal : Hemlock Street fire accidental in nature <p> White smoke billows out of the second story windows Monday afternoon at 911 E. Hemlock St. , Shamokin , as firefighters work to knock down a fire that started on the first floor of the house . Shamokin Police Chief and Fire Marshal Raymond Siko II determined the fire was accidental . <p> Mackenzie Witt / MACKENZIE WITT/FILE PHOTO <p> SHAMOKIN -- Shamokin Police Chief and Fire Marshal Raymond Siko II determined that a fire that began on the first floor of 911 E. Hemlock St. , Shamokin , was accidental . <p> Siko said the fire appears to have started in the fireplace , which was overloaded with wood logs . <p> No one was residing in the house at the time of the fire and no injuries were reported . <p> The 913 E. Hemlock St. residents were temporarily displaced and are staying with family . <p> Siko said the residents were renting from the owner , Alex Barak , who purchased that property and 911 E. Hemlock St. in July this year . Both of the properties are uninsured , he said . <p> The intense blaze summoned firefighters from Shamokin , Coal Township , Mount Carmel , Overlook and medical personnel from AREA Services to the scene at around 1:30 p.m . Monday . <p> Thick columns of white and gray smoke billowed from the second-story windows at the front of the house . The fire scorched the roof 's edges and melted the white siding around the windows . <p> Siko said the second and third floors and the attic sustained extensive fire , smoke and water damage , while the first floor sustained heavy water damage . <p> Copious amounts of flames filled the second floor of the building when firefighters arrived on the scene . <p> According to Shamokin Code Enforcement Officer and Battalion Fire Chief Bruce Rogers , the house was purchased and is in the process of being renovated . All construction and renovation permits for the property were valid and up to date . <p> Rogers said a quick , aggressive attack from local firefighters brought the inferno under control in about 30 minutes . Below-freezing temperatures created icy conditions on the streets , sidewalks and rooftops near the three-story house , which hampered firefighters ' ability to extinguish the fire . <p> WASHINGTON -- A lead organization monitoring for food crises around the world withdrew a new report this week warning of imminent famine in north Gaza under what it called Israel 's " near-total blockade , " after the U.S. asked for its retraction , U.S. officials told The Associated Press . The move follows public criticism of the report from the U.S. ambassador to Israel . <p> The rare public challenge from the Biden administration of the work of the U.S.-funded Famine Early Warning System , which is meant to reflect the data-driven analysis of unbiased experts , drew accusations from aid and human-rights figures of possible U.S. political interference . A finding of famine would be a rebuke of close U.S. ally Israel , which has insisted that its 15-month war in Gaza is aimed against the Hamas militant group and not against its civilian population . <p> U.S. ambassador to Israel Jacob Lew earlier this week called the warning by the internationally recognized group inaccurate and " irresponsible . " Lew and the U.S. Agency for International Development , which funds the monitoring group , both said the findings failed to properly account for rapidly changing circumstances in north Gaza . <p> The U.S. Embassy in Israel and the State Department declined comment . FEWS confirmed Thursday it had retracted its famine warning , and said it expected to re-release the report in January with updated data and analysis . The group declined further comment . <p> " We work day and night with the U.N . and our Israeli partners to meet humanitarian needs -- which are great -- and relying on inaccurate data is irresponsible , " Lew said Tuesday . <p> USAID confirmed to the AP that it had asked the famine-monitoring organization to withdraw its stepped-up warning of imminent famine , issued in a report dated Monday . <p> The dispute points in part to the difficulty of assessing the extent of starvation in largely isolated northern Gaza , where thousands in recent weeks have fled an intensified Israeli military crackdown that aid groups say has allowed delivery of only a dozen trucks of food and water since roughly October . <p> FEWS Net said in its withdrawn report that unless Israel changes its policy , it expects the number of people dying of starvation and related ailments in north Gaza to reach between two and 15 per day sometime between January and March . <p> FEWS was created by the U.S. development agency in the 1980s and is still funded by it . But it is intended to provide independent , neutral and data-driven assessments of hunger crises , including in war zones . Its findings help guide decisions on aid by the U.S. and other governments and agencies around the world . <p> A spokesman for Israel 's foreign ministry , Oren Marmorstein , welcomed the U.S. ambassador 's public challenge of the famine warning . " FEWS NET -- Stop spreading these lies ! " Marmorstein said on X. <p> In challenging the findings publicly , the U.S. ambassador " leveraged his political power to undermine the work of this expert agency , " said Scott Paul , a senior manager at the Oxfam America humanitarian nonprofit . Paul stressed that he was not weighing in on the accuracy of the data or methodology of the report . <p> " The whole point of creating FEWS is to have a group of experts make assessments about imminent famine that are untainted by political considerations , " said Kenneth Roth , former executive director of Human Rights Watch and now a visiting professor in international affairs at Princeton University . " It sure looks like USAID is allowing political considerations -- the Biden administration 's worry about funding Israel 's starvation strategy -- to interfere . " <p> Israel says it has been operating in recent months against Hamas militants still active in northern Gaza . It says the vast majority of the area 's residents have fled and relocated to Gaza City , where most aid destined for the north is delivered . But some critics , including a former defense minister , have accused Israel of carrying out ethnic cleansing in Gaza 's far north , near the Israeli border . <p> North Gaza has been one of the areas hardest-hit by fighting and Israel 's restrictions on aid throughout its war with Hamas militants . Global famine monitors and U.N . and U.S. officials have warned repeatedly of the imminent risk of malnutrition and deaths from starvation hitting famine levels . <p> International officials say Israel last summer increased the amount of aid it was admitting there , under U.S. pressure . The U.S. and U.N . have said Gaza 's people as a whole need between 350 and 500 trucks a day of food and other vital needs . <p> But the U.N . and aid groups say Israel recently has again blocked almost all aid to that part of Gaza . Cindy McCain , the American head of the U.N . World Food Program , called earlier this month for political pressure to get food flowing to Palestinians there . <p> Israel says it places no restrictions on aid entering Gaza and that hundreds of truckloads of goods are piled up at Gaza 's crossings and accused international aid agencies of failing to deliver the supplies . The U.N . and other aid groups say Israeli restrictions , ongoing combat , looting and insufficient security by Israeli troops make it impossible to deliver aid effectively . <p> Lew , the U.S. ambassador , said the famine warning was based on " outdated and inaccurate " data . He pointed to uncertainty over how many of the 65,000-75,000 people remaining in northern Gaza had fled in recent weeks , saying that skewed the findings . <p> FEWS said in its report that its famine assessment holds even if as few as 10,000 people remain . <p> USAID in its statement to AP said it had reviewed the report before it became public , and noted " discrepancies " in population estimates and some other data . The U.S. agency had asked the famine warning group to address those uncertainties and be clear in its final report to reflect how those uncertainties affected its predictions of famine , it said . <p> " This was relayed before Ambassador Lew 's statement , " USAID said in a statement . " FEWS NET did not resolve any of these concerns and published in spite of these technical comments and a request for substantive engagement before publication . As such , USAID asked to retract the report . " <p> Roth criticized the U.S. challenge of the report in light of the gravity of the crisis there . <p> " This quibbling over the number of people desperate for food seems a politicized diversion from the fact that the Israeli government is blocking virtually all food from getting in , " he said , adding that " the Biden administration seems to be closing its eyes to that reality , but putting its head in the sand wo n't feed anyone . " <p> The U.S. , Israel 's main backer , provided a record amount of military support in the first year of the war . At the same time , the Biden administration repeatedly urged Israel to allow more access to aid deliveries in Gaza overall , and warned that failing to do so could trigger U.S. restrictions on military support . The administration recently said Israel was making improvements and declined to carry out its threat of restrictions . <p> Military support for Israel 's war in Gaza is politically charged in the U.S. , with Republicans and some Democrats staunchly opposed any effort to limit U.S. support over the suffering of Palestinian civilians trapped in the conflict . The Biden administration 's reluctance to do more to press Israel for improved treatment of civilians undercut support for Democrats in last month 's elections . <p> Sam Mednick and Josef Federman in Jerusalem contributed to this report . <p> Copyright 2024 The Associated Press . All rights reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten or redistributed without permission . <p> John McDonnell/ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Bryan Steil , R-Wisconsin , chairman of the Committee on House Administration , points to a election brochure for Washington during a hearing he conducted about noncitizen voting May 16 on Capitol Hill in Washington . <p> Page A1 e-Edition newsitem.com <p> John McDonnell/ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Bryan Steil , R-Wisconsin , chairman of the Committee on House Administration , points to a election brochure for Washington during a hearing he conducted about noncitizen voting May 16 on Capitol Hill in Washington . <p> KURT RITZMAN/FILE PHOTO <p> Lourdes Regional sophomore Vivian Reiprish putts during the first day of the District 4 Class 2A girls tournament in October . <p> Page A1 e-Edition newsitem.com <p> KURT RITZMAN/FILE PHOTO <p> Lourdes Regional sophomore Vivian Reiprish putts during the first day of the District 4 Class 2A girls tournament in October . <h> Share <h> Search <h> Create a Clipping <h> How to Clip <p> Click and hold your mouse button on the page to select the area you wish to save or print . You can click and drag the clipping box to move it or click and drag in the bottom right corner to resize it . When you 're happy with your selection , click the checkmark icon next to the clipping area to continue . 
@@119343304 <p> I do n't really operate in regret , but I will say I wish that I could have pushed harder as it relates to our cease-fire now resolution , and done more to save lives . <p> I left it all on the field . I put my life and my livelihood on the line , because so many have lost their lives . I wish that I could have done more , and I wish that my colleagues who later have said , " OK , this is too much . It 's gone too far , " I wish they would have heard us when we first started to speak to this , because our work was coming from a place of wanting to save as many people as we could -- the lives of all people , whether Israeli or Palestinian , people abroad and people in the United States . <p> I probably could have flipped over a few more tables . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Bush was one of a handful of representatives to call for a cease-fire in Gaza soon after Hamas 's October 7 attack and Israel 's disproportionate response , filing a cease-fire resolution on October 16 of that same year . And she was one of a very small group of congressmen to consistently call for said cease-fire , even donning a keffiyeh and holding a side reading " STOP SENDING BOMBS " during President Biden 's State of the Union address in March . <p> Bush also spent ample time in the interview deriding the corporatism of the Democratic Party . <p> " Democratic leadership must make the decision that this corporate money should not be able to be used in Democratic primaries . Because that was the deciding factor in this race , " she told Politico . " Democrats have to ban corporate PAC donations , and specifically have to speak up and push to ban the super PAC spending in our Democratic primaries . That is the only way that this does not happen again , because I was n't unseated because I did n't take care of my community . " <p> She told Politico she 'll always consider herself a Squad member . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> " The Squad is big .... The number of people in Congress on the team will just be smaller . But they 've never been silent . Anyone who underestimates our power is severely mistaken , because we are n't going anywhere , " Bush said . " The one thing that we all had in common , or at least most of us had in common entering Congress , was to be authentically ourselves ... because we felt like those voices were missing in the Congress . The voices of , for me , being the nurse , Jamaal Bowman being the principal , Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez being a bartender .... I do n't think that will change . " <p> Bush also noted that she wished she knew how expensive being a congresswoman was before she started , and how deeply hierarchical the party was . <p> " Seniority plays so much of a role in who gets what committee assignment , what bills are brought to the floor .... We see in the Republican conference they do n't seem to go by seniority as much . I think that the Democrats , we need to pay attention to that . " <p> Bush refused to rule out a return to politics in the near future . <h> Recommended Stories <p> Bench , a Canada-based accounting startup that offered software-as-a-service for small and medium-sized businesses , has abruptly shut down , according to a notice posted on its website . " We regret to inform you that as of December 27 , 2024 , the Bench platform will no longer be accessible , " the notice reads . " We know this news is abrupt and may cause disruption , so we 're committed to helping Bench customers navigate through the transition . " <p> Christian and Alexis react to Chelsea 's shock last minute loss to Fulham . Then , Christian and Alexis break down the other Boxing Day fixtures including Liverpool 's win to Leicester City . Later , Christian and Alexis give a few premier league clubs some resolutions for 2025 . <p> Data-loss prevention startup Cyberhaven says hackers published a malicious update to its Chrome extension that was capable of stealing customer passwords and session tokens , according to an email sent to affected customers , who may have been victims of this suspected supply-chain attack . Cyberhaven confirmed the cyberattack to TechCrunch on Friday but declined to comment on specifics about the incident . An email from the company sent to customers , obtained and published by security researcher Matt Johansen , said the hackers compromised a company account to publish a malicious update to its Chrome extension in the early morning of December 25. 
@@119350300 <p> The head of IDF Military Intelligence , Major-General Shlomi Binder , and the head of the Military Intelligence Directorate , Maj.-Gen . Oded Basiuk presented the IDF General Staff 's investigation into the October 7 massacre to Defense Minister Israel Katz , Israeli media reported on Friday . <p> The IDF presented two investigations on Friday . The investigations deal with key events , gaps that were discovered , and initial conclusions for the purpose of drawing lessons and implementing them immediately . <p> One of them is an intelligence investigation into how Hamas prepared for the war , and it is expected to serve as evidence for understanding the failures of Military Intelligence . <p> The military operation that led to the discovery of the bodies of the six in a tunnel under Tel Sultan , Gaza , is called " The Nutcracker , " and it also included the rescue of Farhan Kadi , a hostage who survived captivity . Carmel Gat , Eden Yerushalmi , Hersh Goldberg-Polin , Ori Danino , Alexander Lobanov and Almog Sarusi. ( credit : Hostages and Missing Families Forum/Screenshot ) <p> Several important points emerged from the investigation , which has already been presented to Chief of Staff Lt. Gen. Herzi Halevi . <h> Return of six dead hostages <p> The IDF referred to the incident as difficult and painful due to not being able to return the hostages . It also emphasized that there was no prior knowledge that the six were being held there . <p> According to the IDF , its military actions in Tel Sultan were sufficient . However , the military concluded that it was nevertheless likely that Israel 's operational activity did lead the Hamas terrorists guarding the hostages to execute them . <p> IDF sources said that although the military had believed there might be hostages in the general area , at the time in late August when they were maneuvering in the area , the chances of hostages being there had dropped significantly . <p> Due to this , the IDF was being more careful with its operations , including by using special forces , so as not to endanger hostages . 
@@119350303 <h> 2,500 attendees gathered in Dallas to celebrate Israel 's resilience , tackle antisemitism , and plan for a brighter future , uniting voices across ages , geographies , and ideologies for one cause . <p> The Jewish National Fund-USA Global Conference for Israel stood out from other confabs in the way it united attendees . Participants of the annual Jewish National Fund-USA event came from a multitude of backgrounds , geographies , religions , and political persuasions , yet when they took to the stage during the many plenaries , workshops , and fireside chats , the only topic on everyone 's mind was supporting the land and people of Israel . <p> All 2,500 philanthropists and supporters of the land and people of Israel who attended the annual Jewish National Fund-USA Global Conference for Israel , held from Nov. 14-17 , 2024 , at the Hilton Anatole in downtown Dallas , Texas , were unabashedly , unashamedly , vocally Zionist.RABBI DAVID WOLPE addresses the Global Conference for Israel . ( Credit : JNF-USA ) <p> The sense that if you were pro-Israel , you were very much around friends was immediately apparent on the Friday morning of the conference when Jewish National Fund-USA CEO Russell F. Robinson made the first of his many appearances during the weekend-long event . <p> As he walked onstage in the hotel 's striking Trinity Ballroom , greeted by warm applause , the words , " We Are Zionists , " appeared in supersized font on the massive screen behind him . <p> Robinson spoke of Jewish National Fund-USA 's plethora of recent successes : the organization , which is devoted to supporting the land and people of Israel , particularly Israel 's underdeveloped and underpopulated northern and southern regions , currently counts some 600,000 unique donors and is aiming to reach one million over the next decade , he said.INCOMING ESHKOL Mayor Michal Uziyahu addresses the Global Conference for Israel . ( Credit : JNF-USA ) <p> Since Oct. 7 , when a Hamas-led attack on Israel 's south prompted an exodus of thousands of Israelis from their homes in the Gaza Envelope as well as from the region bordering Lebanon in the north due to the threat of Hezbollah , Jewish National Fund-USA has been there providing critical support for those unable to return to their homes , Robinson added . <p> True to his ever-optimistic form , the Jewish National Fund-USA executive was n't timid about his organization 's ambitions for Israel 's economic future , which has taken a hit as the Jewish state 's war in Gaza -- not to mention its more recent war in Lebanon , recently subject to a cease-fire agreement -- continues for more than a year . <p> " We are going to reignite tourism in Israel , " Robinson declared , again garnering enthusiastic applause.Robinson was n't alone in expressing such unveiled excitement for the land of Israel and , more broadly , the Jewish people . " <p> " All weekend long , the conference 's presenters spoke of the unmatched resiliency Israelis have exhibited since last October and the strength of global Jewry -- Jews young and old -- in standing up against antisemitism.The conference 's speakers included Sinai Temple Emeritus Rabbi David Wolpe , who on Friday afternoon delivered a masterclass in public speaking -- and with no teleprompter to boot ! -- as he reflected on " The Future of American Jewry . " <p> The highlights of Wolpe 's 30-minute lecture -- which preceded a lengthy dialogue with JNFuture President Ian Sachs that drew on questions from conference attendees -- were many . But a few quotes stand out that are worth repeating here . <p> " When you look at Jewish history , it is astonishing , unprecedented , and literally unbelievable that we should be here , " Wolpe said . " And so , the first obligation of the Jew who wants to fight for Judaism is to have faith in the idea that we are not going anywhere . " <p> On Israel : " One of the things that we have to recognize is that no other country in the world , none , is targeted for elimination . Nobody says , ' Look , Germany fought two world wars , let 's get rid of Germany . ' ' The Chinese are mistreating the Uyghurs , let 's get rid of the Chinese . ' ' Myanmar , look what they 're doing to the Rohingya , we should end Myanmar . ' No . The only country in the world that people say should no longer exist happens to be the only country in the world that is inhabited by people who 've been hated for thousands of years . Is n't that a coincidence ? " So , the ability to stand against that , to have that courage , is indispensable for Jews , " Wolpe said . <p> On what distinguishes Jews living today from those of previous generations : " We have to remember : We are not alone , we are not powerless , we are not wandering , we are not in the predicament of our ancestors , " Wolpe said . <p> If Wolpe 's speech was an eloquent reminder of all the Jews have endured and overcome throughout history , Jewish actor and comedian Michael Rapaport offered a decidedly lighter tone when he emceed the conference 's Saturday night gala . <p> Rapaport relied mostly on crowd work as he gently ribbed people in the audience , but he also did n't shy away from the sentimental as he spoke about how isolated he 's felt in Hollywood since Oct. 7 . <p> Of course , fear of speaking out against , say , the sexual violence perpetrated by Hamas has n't been unique to the entertainment community . Everyone in the room at the Jewish National Fund-USA conference had experienced feeling alone the past year due to their steadfast support for Israel . <p> So , when Rapaport looked out onto the well-dressed gala crowd and said , " I feel like I 'm amongst family , " everyone knew what he was talking about . Along with such big-ticket speakers as Wolpe and Rapaport , the conference also offered more-intimate panel discussions , held in the hotel 's various meeting rooms . <p> There was a lot to choose from . One could stumble into " Hashtag Zionism , " and hear from four pro-Israel social media influencers , including Emily Austin , Shai Davidai , and Israeli judoka world champion and Olympic medalist Peter Paltchik . They shared what it 's like to advocate for Israel on platforms such as TikTok and Instagram . The takeaway : it 's not easy . <p> " Nobody was listening to me anymore , so I turned to social media , " Angelina Palumbo , a student at Binghamton University , said during the panel . Amidst the rise of antisemitic protests on her campus after Oct. 7 , anti-Israel demonstrators began calling Palumbo " little miss Zionist . " <p> She now shares pro-Israel content on social media using that moniker . " Instead of hiding , I chose to embrace it , " she said . Austin -- who has more than 2.5 million followers on Instagram -- said she 's been heartened by the support she 's gotten since she began sharing her pro-Israel views . <p> " It sounds so clich ? , but I 'm like everyone else , " she said in an interview . " I guess people just like my opinion . " Or one could check in on " Israel Making the World a Better Place , " where panelists including Aviva Klompas , author of the newly released " Stand Up Nation , " discussed the ways in which Israelis were uniquely equipped to export their expertise in fields such as agriculture , water , and energy to other countries in the world . <p> Still , the most rewarding experiences might 've been those not on the agenda , such as meeting in person someone you 've previously only interacted with via email and on Zoom during Friday evening egalitarian services , or , somehow , at a conference with thousands of attendees from all over the country , being seated at the same table as someone from your hometown during the Friday night Texas barbecue Shabbat dinner ( kosher , of course ) . <p> When this reporter expressed disbelief at how many people were gathered for said Shabbat dinner , a Jewish National Fund-USA spokesperson remarked , matter-of-factly , " Everything 's bigger in Texas . " <p> For the young people in attendance -- of the 2,500 attendees , there were reportedly 500 college students , 250 Alexander Muss High School in Israel students and dozens of young professionals from JNFuture , a community of young Jewish National Fund-USA philanthropists , ages 22-40 -- the conference was an opportunity to spend a weekend with likeminded people . <p> Such was the mentality of Austin , Texas high school student Yiftah Kovatch , a member of Tzofim ( Israeli Scouts ) . In an interview during lunch , he explained how he recently painted the area around his parking spot at his Austin , Texas high school with the word , " Shalom . " Doing so made his mom nervous , he said , which was emblematic of the times.At the Jewish National Fund-USA conference , though , the teen need n't worry about being confronted with any hatred simply for being Jewish . " We 're all here together for the same cause , " Kovatch told this reporter . " To connect to Israel , help out and spread the pro-Israel word . " <p> Next year 's Jewish National Fund-USA conference is scheduled for Oct. 23-26 and will be held at the Diplomat Hotel in Hollywood , Florida . Register today at jnf. org/global. 
@@119350306 <h> The organization behind the report claimed it had relied on statistics provided by the UN from mid-November and would update the figures but did not withdraw its report , according to the Times . <p> US Ambassador to Israel Jack Lew attends a Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations in Jerusalem , on February 18 , 2024 ( photo credit : Chaim Goldberg/Flash90 ) <p> US Ambassador to Israel Jack Lew on Tuesday criticized the Famine Early Warning Systems Network 's Monday report on an alleged famine in Gaza , according to international media reports , claiming that many of the statistics it published were " irresponsible , " " outdated and inaccurate . " <p> " At a time when inaccurate information is causing confusion and accusations , it is irresponsible to issue a report like this , " the US diplomat said . " We work day and night with the UN and our Israeli partners to meet humanitarian needs ? which are great . " <p> One of Lew 's issues with the report was that it seemed to grossly inflate the population of northern Gaza from 65,000 to 75,000 people when Lew said the actual population was only 7,000 to 15,000 civilians , according to The New York Times . The difference in population size would directly impact the expected amount of aid needed to supply the population - resulting in the current supply of humanitarian resources being recognized as insufficient for a population of over 65,000 . <p> Lew stressed that his estimates had drawn information from the United Nations , which claimed that northern Gaza had a population of 10,000 to 15,000 and Israeli population estimates of 5,000-9,000 . <p> The Coordinator of Government Activities in the Territories ( COGAT ) also denied the report 's findings , claiming on X/Twitter that it " deliberately and inaccurately ignores the extensive humanitarian efforts made by Israel in the northern Gaza Strip . " Transfer of humanitarian aid trucks into the Gaza strip through the " Kisufim " passage ( credit : IDF SPOKESPERSON UNIT ) <p> COGAT also accused the Famine Early Warning Systems Network of choosing to " present a partial picture that creates a false representation for the international community . " <p> While stressing that since October , 2,100 humanitarian aid trucks have entered the northern Gaza Strip , " The report entirely disregards the dozens of coordination efforts for supplies sent to hospitals in the northern Gaza Strip , including the Indonesian Hospital and the Kamal Adwan Hospital . Over the past two months , these hospitals have received , based on their requests , tens of thousands of liters of fuel , thousands of food packages , water , and medical supplies . " <p> What you need to know in regards to recent reports : ? The report deliberately and inaccurately ignores the extensive humanitarian efforts made by Israel in the northern Gaza Strip . The organization 's choice to present a partial picture creates a false representation for the ... <p> In October , $9.5 million worth of food and other goods -- nearly a quarter of all the humanitarian aid sent to Gaza that month -- was lost because of attacks and looting , according to a previously unreported tally of incidents compiled by UN relief agencies with charity organizations . In October , 40% of aid collected from the Kerem Shalom crossing in southern Gaza was looted , according to the tally of incidents seen by Reuters . <p> To gauge the depth of the hunger crisis , US officials said they watch the percentage of Gaza 's population to whom UN relief agencies could provide food assistance each month . <p> In November , it was 29% , up from 24% in October , but a sharp fall from a wartime peak of more than 70% in April , according to UN data . 
@@119350307 <h> Assessing Turkish intentions after Assad 's regime fall <h> BEHIND THE LINES - Ankara appears set on a two-sided strategy to unify Syria under the rule of its Sunni Islamist client <p> A MEMBER of the Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces ( SDF ) stands along a street after rebels seized the capital and ousted Syria 's Bashar al-Assad , in Hasakah , earlier this month. ( photo credit : REUTERS/Orhan Qereman ) <p> Amid the euphoria following the toppling of the Assad regime in Damascus , the situation facing Syria 's non-Arab and non-Sunni Muslim minorities has been largely ignored . But even as the global media focuses on Damascus and speculates regarding the future intentions of the new power brokers , in another part of Syria the war is not over , and clashes are ongoing . <p> The area in question is Syria 's northeast , and the combatant sides are the US-aligned , Kurdish-dominated Syrian Democratic Forces ( SDF ) , and the Turkish-supported Sunni Islamist Syrian National Army ( SNA ) . <p> To understand the nature and dynamic of the conflict now under way in northern Syria between these two organizations , a number of broader dynamics must first be addressed . <p> Most notably , and perhaps insufficiently understood , is that the ending of 61 years of Ba'ath party rule in Syria is , above all , the triumph of one man . That man is not Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) leader Abu Mohammed al-Julani , though he is set to emerge as Syria 's new president . The man in question is Turkish President Recep Tayepp Erdogan . <p> Erdogan 's decision to refuse to cede a small corner of northwest Syria to the Assad regime enabled the slow growth of the forces that would eventually destroy Assad . For half a decade , this decision appeared inexplicable . Everyone else had long moved on from the Syrian civil war , assuming it was over . CHILDREN HOLD flags next to a sculpture of Druze warrior Sultan Pasha al-Atrash after Syrian rebels announced the ousting of president Bashar Assad , in the Druze village of Majdal Shams , Golan Heights , earlier this month . ( credit : REUTERS/SHIR TOREM ) <p> The Russians , sometimes shrewd and patient strategists , on this occasion , walked into a Turkish trap , taking their Syrian client regime along with them . In their strategy of " reconciliation " ' rather than outright conquest of Syrian rebel-held areas , they got around the problem of the most hard-core , determined insurgents by including an element in reconciliation agreements that allowed these men to keep their weapons and make their way to the Turkish-guaranteed enclave in the northwest of the country . <p> The idea , presumably , was that these men would then spend their time praying and training , in total irrelevance . Instead , as it turns out , with this practice Russia and the Assad regime busily stoked the fires that would eventually consume them . <p> But it should be remembered that in their northwest Syrian enclave , the Turks allowed the incubation of not one , but two Sunni Islamist armies and authorities . The first of these , HTS and its Syrian Salvation Government is the force that marched to Damascus and took power there in December 2024 . <h> Syrian National Army <p> THE SECOND group , the Syrian National Army ( SNA ) and its Syrian Interim Government , is a more direct creation of Ankara . It consists of north Syrian Sunni insurgent Islamist groups other than HTS , corralled by Turkey into a military force trained , armed , and directed by Ankara . <p> It is far less disciplined than HTS , with a track record in violence against Syrians belonging to non-Arab or non-Sunni minorities , such as the murder of prominent politician Hevrin Khalaf in 2019 . This force , supported by the Turkish army , carried out the ethnic cleansing of 300,000 Syrian Kurds from the Afrin area in 2018 . <p> The SNA has maintained a prison system in northwest Syria , in which torture and abuse are routine , and into which thousands of Syrians have disappeared . <p> Parallel to HTS 's drive on Damascus , the SNA launched its own offensive in <p> November 2024 . The SNA was directed not southward , against the regime , but rather eastward , against the Syrian Kurds . With close Turkish support , the SNA overran Tal Rifaat and then took Manbij , pushing the SDF back to the Euphrates River line . Their advance included , unsurprisingly , documented war crimes , including the filmed executions of two wounded soldiers in a hospital in Manbij . <p> The United States brokered a ceasefire along the river line but shelling has continued . The latest reports suggest that the SDF has now launched a counteroffensive in the direction of Manbij . <p> All indications suggest that the Turkish plan for Syria , now controlled by its clients , includes the destruction of the SDF , and of the political authority it defends , the Autonomous Administration of Northeast Syria . As of now , there are indications that a major new offensive by the SNA , supported by the Turkish Armed Forces on the town of Kobani , may be imminent . <p> The SDF would undoubtedly fiercely resist any invasion across the Euphrates . But with Turkish air power , artillery , and drone capacity involved , the fighting would be bloody , and Turkish success likely . What would follow , given the existing track record of the SNA , would almost certainly be ethnic cleansing and slaughter on a large scale . <h> Focus on the US <p> THE MAIN front to prevent any such incursion is political and is focused on the United States . Senators Lindsey Graham ( R.-S.C. ) and Chris Van Hollen ( D.-Md. ) introduced bipartisan legislation last week that would impose sanctions on Turkey in an effort to prevent an assault on the SDF east of the Euphrates . <p> It is not yet clear if these moves and other pressure will succeed . But given the strategic patience already displayed by the Turks in the Syrian context , it appears equally probable that their efforts to destroy the pro-US Kurdish authority will take at least initially a political , rather than military form . <p> On Tuesday , the interim Syrian authorities announced that an agreement had been reached following consultations for the dissolution of all armed factions in Syria . The consultations prior to the agreement , however , took place entirely between the HTS-led interim government , and the SNA . The SDF was not invited . <p> This appears to indicate that Ankara is set on a two-sided strategy in order to unify Syria under the rule of its Sunni Islamist clients . In this strategy , the threat of possible military intervention by Turkey will be maintained , while the SDF will be expected , in the shadow of this threat , to declare voluntarily its own dissolution before the rulers of the new , " unified " Syria . Otherwise , in the fullness of time , the newly equipped army of the new HTS regime will come across the Euphrates to " reunify " Syria by other means . <p> This strategy is likely to be aided by voices in the West , which recommend bowing to the Turkish project in order to keep Ankara " on side . " They will maintain that there is no longer any point in opposing the Turkish will in Syria , in backing lost causes , and so on . <p> For as long as roughly 2,000 US service personnel remain in eastern Syria , however , an all-out assault by Turkey remains an impossibility . The SNA by itself , meanwhile , appears not strong enough to make decisive advances against the SDF . So the stance of the US will be crucial . <p> From Israel 's point of view , the victory of Turkey in Syria ushers in a resurgence of Sunni political Islam on its borders . Also likely is a period of open competition between Israel and Turkey , with the latter in alliance with various Sunni Islamist forces , including those in the West Bank and Gaza . <p> Therefore , the interest is to keep the newly dominant forces as far away from Israeli communities as possible , and as militarily weak as possible , and to strengthen and preserve those elements resistant to the Turkish/Sunni Islamist project . <p> This explains Jerusalem 's current support for the Syrian Kurds and Israeli recent military moves . An SNA/Turkish victory in northeast Syria , and a reunited , resurgent Syria under Turkish and Sunni Islamist control , will constitute net losses for Israel in this new , emergent competition . 
@@119350310 <p> Progressive Jewish group Taste of Olam Haba and Little Rock Peace for Palestine , according to their Instagram accounts , disrupted the lighting of a Lubavitch of Arkansas public Hanukkiah because of the involvement of Huckabee , who is set to become US ambassador to Israel . <p> The activists carried poles with candles on the end , and chanted slogans throughout the lighting event . According to photographs published by the groups , some wore sweaters calling for " ceasefire now " in Gaza . <p> " Christian Zionists and their agenda have no place in our Jewish communities and in our government . As Mike Huckabee , the US President-Elect Donald Trump appointee as future Israeli ambassador , addressed our city , we stood united in rejecting his message of division . Instead , we spoke for unity , justice , and equality for all people between the river and the sea , " the two activist groups said on social media . 
@@119350311 <h> Trump has promised harsher immigration policies in his second term and said that he would deport those who support ' jihadism , anti-Americanism , or antisemitism . ' <p> U.S. President-elect Donald Trump adjusts the microphone as he meets with House Republicans on Capitol Hill in Washington , U.S. , November 13 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/BRIAN SNYDER ) <p> Fearing a crackdown on immigration , several US universities have urged international students to return to campus before President-elect Donald Trump 's inauguration on January 20 of next year . <p> CNN reported that several universities have advised international students to return to campus before the end of winter break to avoid being stranded abroad due to a potential travel ban similar to the one Trump implemented at the start of his first term . <p> According to the Institute of International Education , the US hosted a record 1.1 million international students during the 2023-2024 school year . Demonstrators gather at a protest encampment in support of Palestinians , amid the ongoing conflict between Israel and Hamas , in University Yard at George Washington University in Washington , US , May 2 , 2024. ( credit : Nathan Howard/Reuters ) <p> " A travel ban is likely to go into effect soon after inauguration , " Cornell 's Office of Global Learning wrote in a statement to students last month . " The ban is likely to include citizens of the countries targeted in the first Trump administration : Kyrgyzstan , Nigeria , Myanmar , Sudan , Tanzania , Iran , Libya , North Korea , Syria , Venezuela , Yemen , and Somalia . New countries could be added to this list , particularly China and India . " <p> Ahead of his second presidential term , Trump has promised to enact harsher immigration laws and is seeking a travel ban on places such as Gaza , Syria , Somalia , Yemen , and Libya out of fear of a massacre similar to that of October 7 . <p> Additionally , while on the campaign trail , Trump also promised to deport those with " jihadist sympathies . " <h> Trump promises deportations <p> The president-elect has previously said that he would send immigration officers to pro-Palestinian protests on campuses in order to protect the US , CNN reported . <p> " When I am president , we will not allow our colleges to be taken over by violent radicals , " Trump said in May , as reported by NBC . " If you come here from another country and try to bring jihadism or anti-Americanism or antisemitism to our campuses , we will immediately deport you . " <p> Trump has also said that he would enforce " strong ideological screening of all immigrants to the United States " and promised that the US would block " dangerous lunatics , haters , bigots , and maniacs " from getting US residency , according to CNN . <p> " We 're very uncertain about the future , " Gabrielle Balreira Fontenelle Mota , 21 , told CNN . Mota , who comes from Brazil , studies at NYU . " I 'm not from a Muslim country or from China , which are places that Trump usually criticizes . So I do n't feel as vulnerable as other international students . ... What makes me a little bit more concerned is the ideological screenings that ( Trump ) said he will be implementing . " <p> At the same time , Trump has proposed to " automatically " give green cards to graduates of US higher education institutions , including junior colleges , according to NBC reports . <p> " What I want to do and what I will do is if you graduate from a college , I think you should get automatically , as part of your diploma , a green card to be able to stay in this country , " NBC quoted Trump as saying in June . <p> A spokesperson for the Trump campaign commented at the time that the proposal was only intended for highly skilled graduates and that all applicants would be screened to " exclude all communists , radical Islamists , Hamas supporters , America haters , and public charges , " CNN reported . 
@@119353104 <p> Kamal Adwan Hospital has been hit multiple times over the past three months by Israeli troops waging an offensive against Hamas fighters in surrounding neighborhoods , according to staff . The ministry said a strike on the hospital a day earlier killed five medical staff . Hamas has been designated as a terrorist organization by the United States , Canada and the European Union . <p> Israel 's military said it was conducting operations against Hamas infrastructure and fighters in the area and had ordered people out of the hospital , but said it had not entered the complex as of Friday night . It repeated claims that Hamas fighters operate inside Kamal Adwan but provided no evidence . Hospital officials have denied that . <p> The Health Ministry said troops forced medical personnel and patients to assemble in the yard and remove their clothes . Some were led to an unknown location , while some patients were sent to the nearby Indonesian Hospital , which was knocked out of operation after an Israel raid this week . <p> Israeli troops during raids frequently carry out mass detentions , stripping men to their underwear for questioning in what the military says is a security measure as they search for Hamas fighters . <p> The Associated Press does n't have access to Kamal Adwan , but armed plainclothes members of the Hamas-led police forces have been seen in other hospitals , maintaining security but also controlling access to parts of the facilities . <p> A woman sits outside a tent made locally from pieces of cloth and nylon , in a camp for internally displaced Palestinians at the beachfront in Deir al-Balah , central Gaza Strip , Friday , Dec. 27 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Abdel Kareem Hana ) <p> The Health Ministry said Israeli troops also set fires in several parts of Kamal Adwan , including the lab and surgery department . It said 25 patients and 60 health workers remained in the hospital . The account could not be independently confirmed , and attempts to reach hospital staff were unsuccessful . <p> " Fire is ablaze everywhere in the hospital , " an unidentified staff member said in an audio message posted on social media accounts of hospital director Hossam Abu Safiya . The staffer said some evacuated patients had been unhooked from oxygen . <p> " While IDF troops were not in the hospital , a small fire broke out in an empty building inside the hospital that is under control , " he said Friday night . He said a preliminary investigation found " no connection " between military activity and the fire . <p> The Israeli military heavily restricts the movements of Palestinians in Gaza and has barred foreign journalists from entering the territory throughout the war , making it difficult to verify information . <p> " These actions put the lives of all of these people in even more danger than what they faced before , " U.N . spokesperson Stephanie Tremblay told journalists , and noted colleagues ' reports of " significant damage " to the hospital . It should be protected as international law requires , she added . <h> A largely isolated north <p> Since October , Israel 's offensive has virtually sealed off the northern Gaza areas of Jabaliya , Beit Hanoun and Beit Lahiya and leveled large parts of them . Tens of thousands of Palestinians were forced out but thousands are believed to remain in the area , where Kamal Adwan and two other hospitals are located . Troops raided Kamal Adwan in October , and on Tuesday troops stormed and evacuated the Indonesian Hospital . <p> The Israeli rights group Physicians for Human Rights-Israel this week petitioned Israel 's High Court of Justice , seeking a halt to military attacks on Kamal Adwan . It warned that forcibly evacuating the hospital would " abandon thousands of residents in northern Gaza . " Before the latest deaths Thursday , the group documented five other staffers killed by Israeli fire since October . <p> Israel launched its campaign in Gaza vowing to destroy Hamas after the group 's Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack on southern Israel in which terrorists killed around 1,200 people and abducted some 250 others . Around 100 Israelis remain captive in Gaza , around a third believed to be dead . <p> Israel 's nearly 15-month-old campaign of bombardment and offensives has devastated the territory 's health sector . A year ago , it carried out raids on hospitals in northern Gaza , including Kamal Adwan , Indonesian and al-Awda Hospital , saying they served as bases for Hamas , though it presented little evidence . <p> Israel 's campaign has killed more than 45,400 Palestinians , more than half women and children , and wounded more than 108,000 others , according to the Health Ministry . Its count does not distinguish between civilians and combatants . <h> Deaths from the cold in Gaza <p> Children and adults , many barefoot , huddled Friday on the cold sand in tents whose plastic and cloth sheets whipped in the wind . Overnight temperatures can dip into the 40s Fahrenheit ( below 10 Celsius ) , and sea spray from the Mediterranean can dampen tents just steps away . <p> " I swear to God , their mother and I cover ourselves with one blanket and we cover ( their five children ) with three blankets that we got from neighbors . Sea waters drowned everything that was ours , " said Muhammad al-Sous , displaced from Beit Lahiya in the north . <p> The children collect plastic bottles to make fires , and pile under the blankets when their only set of clothes is washed and dried in the wind . <p> At least three babies in Gaza have died from exposure to cold in recent days , doctors there have said , and the Health Ministry said an adult -- a nurse who worked at the European Hospital -- also died this week . <p> Khaled and Keath reported from Cairo . Associated Press writer Edith M. Lederer at the United Narions contributed to this report . 
@@119373104 <p> 2024 was a year of joyous celebrations , tearful farewells and impactful decisions that could forever change our lives and those that come after . Among some of the more difficult departures were in Oakland , where fans not only had to say goodbye to another beloved franchise but also its most beloved son . Throughout it all , we persevered and humanity found a way to shine brightly . Those experiences and more were captured through the lenses of the Bay Area News Group 's photojournalists . Because of these images , the triumph , passion , and beauty of the world around us will forever be remembered . <h> January <p> Sunlight beams down through dark clouds as a cyclist visits the Byxbee Park in Palo Alto , Calif. , on Jan. 3 , 2024 . ( Dai Sugano/Bay Area News Group ) Keith Febr , who works for the Hayward Area Park District , and his dogs Kona , left , and Bearla pay respects as police officers carry the casket of fallen Oakland Police Officer Tuan Le for his memorial service at 3 Crosses Church in Castro Valley , Calif. , on Wednesday , Jan. 9 , 2024 . Officer Le was killed in the line of duty after responding to a burglary at a cannabis business in Oakland on Dec. 29 , 2023 . ( Ray Chavez/Bay Area News Group ) The motorcade for slain Oakland police officer Tuan Le heads towards the 3Crosses Church in Castro Valley on Interstate 580 in Oakland , Calif. , on Wednesday , Jan. 10 , 2024 . Le was shot and killed in the line of duty on Dec. 29 . ( Jane Tyska/Bay Area News Group ) A snowy egret stands near the edge of a cluster of black-necked stilts at the Coyote Creek Lagoon Unit of the Don Edwards San Francisco Bay National Wildlife Refuge on Sunday , Jan. 14 , 2024 , in Fremont , Calif . ( Aric Crabb/Bay Area News Group ) The Golden Gate Bridge glows in the distance as the beached sailboat Lorelai rests on the sands of Baker Beach in San Francisco , Calif. , Tuesday , Jan. 16 , 2024 . ( Karl Mondon/Bay Area News Group ) Stanford head coach Tara VanDerveer is celebrated by her team after a win over Oregon at Maples Pavilion in Stanford , Calif , Friday , Jan. 19 , 2024 , for her 1,202nd victory , tying her with Mike Krzyzewski for the most wins by a college basketball coach . ( Karl Mondon/Bay Area News Group ) San Francisco 49er George Kittle takes the field in the rain for the NFC Divisional playoff game against the Green Bay Packers , Saturday , Jan. 20 , 2024 , at Levi 's Stadium in Santa Clara , Calif . ( Karl Mondon/Bay Area News Group ) Rita De La Cerda , right , is hugged during a vigil for her granddaughter baby Phoenix and daughter Emily Castro , Saturday , Jan. 27 , 2024 , in San Jose , Calif . Phoenix was only three months old when she died of fentanyl poisoning and her mother Emily died from the same drug a few months later . ( Karl Mondon/Bay Area News Group ) <h> February <p> Archbishop Mitty 's girls basketball team listens to Coach Sue Phillips talk after winning a game against Archbishop Riordan 86-28 at Archbishop Mitty High School in San Jose , Calif. , on Monday , Feb. 19 , 2024 . Shae Hammond/Bay Area News Group ) Marine One , transporting President Joe Biden , takes off from San Francisco International Airport on Wednesday , Feb. 20 , 2024 , in Calif . ( Dai Sugano/Bay Area News Group ) <h> March <p> A man and his dog walk up to the Tahoe Donner Recreation and Park District 's Community Arts Center in downtown Truckee , Calif. , on Sunday , March 3 , 2024 . Margot Smith peeks over a partition to watch orchestra members warm up before a performance of the opera " La Cenerentola " at the Hillside Club on Sunday , March 10 , 2024 , in Berkeley Calif . The Hillside Club was founded in 1898 by local women , destroyed in a fire and rebuilt in 1923 , with a design by famed architect Bernard Maybeck . ( Aric Crabb/Bay Area News Group ) Joshua Vinayak , of Fremont , has gulal , a colorful powder , rubbed in his face during the Association of Indo Americans Holi Fest Discovery Meadow Park in San Jose , Calif. , on Saturday , March 23 , 2024 . ( Shae Hammond/Bay Area News Group ) Megan Ruskofsky-Zuccato cries at the thought of having to give up her three dogs inside an RV at a homeless encampment along Leet Drive off Hegenberger Road in Oakland , Calif. , on Thursday , March 28 , 2024 . Caltrans has agreed to help Oakland clear homeless camps by freeways and the camp will be cleared on April 2 . ( Jane Tyska/Bay Area News Group ) <h> April <p> Dallas Mavericks ' Daniel Gafford ( 21 ) falls down after Golden State Warriors ' Draymond Green ( 23 ) blocked a shot to the basket in the fourth quarter of a NBA game at Chase Center in San Francisco , Calif. , on Tuesday , April 2 , 2024 . ( Ray Chavez/Bay Area News Group ) After getting married at Yosemite National Park , Courtney Smith , of Dana Point , poses for her wedding photographer at Yosemite Valley on Aug. 24 , 2024 . ( Dai Sugano/Bay Area News Group ) Pro-Palestinian demonstrators march at Stanford University urging the university to divest from Israel and demanding a permanent cease-fire in the war in Gaza , on Thursday , April 25 , 2024 , at Stanford University . ( Dai Sugano/Bay Area News Group ) Pallbearers carry the casket with the body of Oakland police officer Jordan Wingate for his memorial service at 3 Crosses Church in Castro Valley , Calif. , on Friday , April 26 , 2024 . Wingate was critically injured in a crash while responding to a call six years ago . He died from his injuries on Saturday , April 20 . ( Ray Chavez/Bay Area News Group ) Contra Costa County Firefighters battle a two-alarm structure fire in Concord , Calif. , on Monday , April 29 , 2024 . The fire was reported at 10:23 p.m. at 2325 Clayton Road . ConFire PIO reported that the three-story commercial structure was an abandoned building with no injuries at the time . The building is situated at the corner of Sunset Avenue and Clayton Road near the Concord BART station . ( Jose Carlos Fajardo/Bay Area News Group ) <h> May <p> Emily Chan applies lotion in her room on Sunday , May 5 , 2024 , in Palo Alto , Calif . Emily Chan and her mother Carol support a state assembly bill that would potentially ban the sale of anti-aging cosmetic products to children/preteen under 13 . ( Aric Crabb/Bay Area News Group ) Leigh 's Aiden Sarin ( 7 ) celebrates with students after their 25-23 , 25-21 , 13-25 , 25-18 win over Branham at Leigh High School for their CCS boys volleyball semifinal game in San Jose , Calif. , on Thursday , May 9 , 2024 . ( Nhat V. Meyer/Bay Area News Group ) People contemplate the Aurora Borealis also known as Northern Lights visible from Vasco Road in Livermore , Calif. , on Friday , May 10 , 2024 . ( Ray Chavez/Bay Area News Group ) Tara Reichert , of Livermore , protects herself after falling off her horse while competing in the Ranch Bronc Riding competition during the Rowell Ranch Pro Rodeo in Castro Valley , Calif. , on Friday , May 17 , 2024 . ( Jose Carlos Fajardo/Bay Area News Group ) A brown pelican flies low over the water at Elkhorn Slough in Moss Landing , Calif. , on May 24 , 2024 . ( Dai Sugano/Bay Area News Group ) Archbishop Mitty celabrate after winning their Central Coast Section Division I baseball championship 6-2 against St. Ignatius in San Jose , Calif. , on Saturday , May 25 , 2024 . ( Doug Duran/Bay Area News Group ) <h> June <p> Firefighters work on the Corral Fire in Tracy , Calif. , on Sunday , June 2 , 2024 . ( Nhat V. Meyer/Bay Area News Group ) Alaa Suliman at the Peace Terrace Academy on Tuesday , June 4 , 2024 , in Fremont , Calif . Suliman is making efforts to raise local and regional awareness about the Sudanese people affected by the ongoing war in Sudan . ( Aric Crabb/Bay Area News Group ) Daniel Davis , 12 , and Tony Melendez , 10 , from right , of Alameda , cool off at Robert W. Crown Memorial State Beach in Alameda , Calif. , on Monday , June 17 , 2024 . ( Jane Tyska/Bay Area News Group ) American Sign Language interpreter Neil Cordova demonstrates ASL interpretation of the music of EL Tri in this long-exposure photo created at The Mercury News on June 20 , 2024 , in San Jose , Calif . At this Saturday 's Music in The Park in San Jose , Cordova and his team will be interpreting the rock music of Mexican band El Tri into American Sign Language , allowing deaf concertgoers to rock out along with their hearing peers . ( Dai Sugano/Bay Area News Group ) <h> July <p> Covered in scaffolding for a $16 million restoration project , the Pigeon Point Lighthouse is silhouetted against the setting sun . Monday , July 3 , 2024 , in Pescadero , Calif . ( Karl Mondon/ Bay Area News Group ) Arizona Diamondbacks ' Jorge Barrosa ( 1 ) scores a run off of a single hit by Arizona Diamondbacks ' Geraldo Perdomo ( 2 ) against San Francisco Giants ' Patrick Bailey ( 14 ) in the second inning at Oracle Park in San Francisco , Calif. , on Tuesday , Sept. 3 , 2024 . ( Nhat V. Meyer/Bay Area News Group ) Protesters gather in front of Assemblymember Ash Kalra 's office to rally for an end to child marriage in the state on Thursday , July 18 , 2024 , in San Jose , Calif . Survivors of child marriage spoke at the rally in support of AB2924 , a bill to end child marriage in California . ( Aric Crabb/Bay Area News Group ) A bird swims past a stand of reeds in a pond at the Coyote Creek Lagoon Unit of the Don Edwards San Francisco Bay National Wildlife Refuge on Thursday , July 25 , 2024 , in Fremont , Calif . ( Aric Crabb/Bay Area News Group ) San Jose Earthquakes ' goalkeeper Daniel De Sousa Britto ( 42 ) yells after missing a penalty kick against Chivas de Guadalajara in the second half at Levi 's Stadium in Santa Clara , Calif. , on Saturday , July 27 , 2024 . ( Shae Hammond/Bay Area News Group ) <h> August <p> Paco Rojas smiles as he pets one of his cats , Princess , at his home in San Jose , Calif. , on Thursday , Aug. 1 , 2024 . Rojas was hit by a drunk driver last year . His car went up in flames and he stumbled out and fell off the overpass . Since then he 's had 23 surgeries and is expected to walk again later this year despite his poor prognosis . ( Dai Sugano/Bay Area News Group ) A singer performs during the Jaripeo or Mexican rodeo and concert at the Oakland fairgrounds off I-880 in Oakland , Calif. , on Sunday , Aug. 4 , 2024 . About 2,500 to 3,000 fans attended the family event , which featured 10 bulls for 10 riders , horse dancing , five Mexican regional bands , dancing , and food and beverage . ( Ray Chavez/Bay Area News Group ) A concertgoer and his wheelchair are lifted into the air by the audience as Schoolboy Q performs on stage during the second day of the Outside Lands Music Festival in San Francisco , Calif. , on Saturday , Aug. 10 , 2024 . ( Jose Carlos Fajardo/Bay Area News Group ) With Point San Pedro in the distance a humpback whale lunges at Sharp Park Beach in Pacifica , Calif. , Tuesday , Aug. 13 , 2024 . ( Karl Mondon/ Bay Area News Group ) Oakland police investigate a fatal shooting in the 2400 block of International Boulevard between 24th and 25th avenues in Oakland , Calif. , on Tuesday , August 27 , 2024 . A person was pronounced dead at the scene . ( Jane Tyska/Bay Area News Group ) Jim Rizzo stands proudly by some of the vintage signs he has restored at his Neon Works facility in Oakland , Calif. , Wednesday , Aug. 28 , 2024 . ( Karl Mondon/Bay Area News Group ) <h> September <p> Pro BMX rider Jacob Thiem , with Robert Castillo 's BMX Freestyle Team , jumps over Eleni Jacobson , from San Jose , at Viva CalleSJ 's " Parks to Roses , " in front of the rotunda at San Jose City Hall in downtown San Jose , Calif. , on Sunday , Sept. 8 , 2024 . ( Nhat V. Meyer/Bay Area News Group ) A cow moos as it urinates under the night sky in Geyserville , Calif. , on Thursday , Sept. 19 , 2024 . ( Jose Carlos Fajardo/Bay Area News Group ) A 's fan Ryan Mastel , of Santa Rosa , finds a quiet spot on the third deck to enjoy the game and a bag of peanuts while watching the sunset at the Coliseum in Oakland , Calif. , on Wednesday , Sept. 25 , 2024 . Tonight the A 's played the Texas Rangers for their last night home game at the Coliseum before moving to Sacramento . ( Jose Carlos Fajardo/Bay Area News Group ) Oakland Athletics ' Zack Gelof ( 20 ) and his teammates acknowledge the fans after their MLB game at the Coliseum in Oakland , Calif. , on Thursday , Sept. 26 , 2024 . Today the Oakland Athletics played the Texas Rangers for their final home game in Oakland before moving to Sacramento next season . ( Jose Carlos Fajardo/Bay Area News Group ) <h> October <p> Christopher High Head Coach Adam Hazel leads the team in thanking the fans after they won their football game against Santa Teresa High 31-14 in San Jose , Calif. , on Friday , Oct. 4 , 2024 . ( Doug Duran/Bay Area News Group ) Ariella Ruback , center , gets a hug after " October 7 ; An Evening of Remembrance and Hope " marking one year since the October 7th attacks , at Freidenrich Community Park at the Oshman Family JCC in Palo Alto , Calif. , on Monday , Oct. 7 , 2024 . Ruback was in Israel when the attacks occurred and was rescued by Israeli Defense forces , including Eytan Berman , far right . ( Nhat V. Meyer/Bay Area News Group ) Adriana Vazquez-Chavez , a student assistant with the Record Clearance Project , holds hands before embracing Carmen Navarro , whose son was cleared of past convictions , at Family Justice Center in San Jose , Calif. , on Friday , Oct. 18 , 2024 . ( Shae Hammond/Bay Area News Group ) Sofia , 2 , sits on a box spring next to her grandmother Sandra Barrios as she looks on from the door of their RV dwelling at the Columbus Park homeless encampment in San Jose , Calif. , on Saturday , Oct. 26 , 2024 . ( Ray Chavez/Bay Area News Group ) <h> November <p> A three-day old waxing crescent moon appears above a large tree during sunset on in Walnut Creek , Calif. , on Monday , Nov. 4 , 2024 . ( Photo by Jose Carlos Fajardo/Bay Area News Group ) April Rose , and her husband Kevin , right , of Concord , celebrate as Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump is projected to win North Carolina during the Contra Costa County GOP Election Watch Party at the Back Forty Texas BBQ Roadhouse &amp; Saloon in Pleasant Hill , Calif. , on Tuesday , Nov. 5 , 2024 . ( Jane Tyska/Bay Area News Group ) Lights are partially turned off and balloons are left on the floor after the Democratic watch party in the Democratic Volunteer Center in Mountain View , Calif. , on Tuesday , Nov. 5 , 2024 . ( Dai Sugano/Bay Area News Group ) San Jose Sharks ' Macklin Celebrini ( 71 ) catches air while going after the puck against Minnesota Wild 's Jared Spurgeon ( 46 ) and Minnesota Wild 's Marcus Johansson ( 90 ) in the third period at SAP Center in San Jose , Calif. , on Thursday , Nov. 7 , 2024 . ( Shae Hammond/Bay Area News Group ) Archbishop Mitty celebrates their 25-11 , 25-18 , 25-19 win over St. Francis for the CIF NorCal Open Division championship game at St. Francis High School in Mountain View , Calif. , on Tuesday , Nov. 19 , 2024 . ( Nhat V. Meyer/Bay Area News Group ) St. Ignatius celebrates after winning against St. Francis during the CCS Open Division championship at San Jose City College in San Jose , Calif. , on Friday , Nov. 22 , 2024 . ( Shae Hammond/Bay Area News Group ) Sacred Heart Prep 's Natalia Szczerba ( 11 ) , Ellison Brush ( 1 ) , Lauren Rossi ( 13 ) , and Casey Coleman ( 2 ) celebrate with teammates after winning their CIF NorCal Water Polo Championship match in Atherton , Calif. , on Saturday , Nov. 23 , 2024 . ( Doug Duran/Bay Area News Group ) Chloe Reckis , 8 , from San Jose , rides her bicycle through fake " snow " at Christmas in the Park 's Drive Thru Light Show at History Park in San Jose , Calif. , on Sunday , Nov. 24 , 2024 . This is the first year they allowed bikes on the route . ( Nhat V. Meyer/Bay Area News Group ) Eggs of a salmon carcass exposed after the head was cut by the South Bay Clean Creeks Coalition while wading through the waters looking for salmon nests and carcasses along Los Gatos Creek in San Jose , Calif. , on Saturday , Nov. 30 , 2024 . The coalition has been monitoring salmon spawning in the South Bay creeks , where they have found that around 10% of the salmon returning to spawn could be native to the area . ( Ray Chavez/Bay Area News Group ) <h> December <p> Moreau Catholic celebrates after winning against Leland during the NorCal Division 7-AA championship at Moreau Catholic High School in Hayward , Calif. , on Friday , Dec. 6 , 2024 . ( Shae Hammond/Bay Area News Group ) As part of National Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day , the Beacon atop Mount Diablo glows , Saturday evening , Dec. 7 , 2024 . Pearl Harbor survivor Earl " Chuck " Kohler , now 100 years old , flipped a switch illuminating the mountaintop light . ( Karl Mondon/Bay Area News Group ) A sunset drone view of the Oakland California Temple holiday lights in Oakland , Calif. , on Wednesday , Dec. 11 , 2024 . ( Jane Tyska/Bay Area News Group ) The California bench reacts after Marta Suarez sank a buzzer-beating 3-pointer against Stanford at the end of the third quarter , Friday , Dec. 13 , 2024 , at Haas Pavilion in Berkeley , Calif . ( Karl Mondon/Bay Area News Group ) A pedestrian shields herself from the rain as she walks along Main Street in downtown Martinez , Calif. , on Monday , Dec. 16 , 2024 . A stronger rain system is expected to hit the Bay Area late Friday night into Saturday morning . ( Jose Carlos Fajardo/Bay Area News Group ) A van is engulfed in flames inside a property on the 1600 block of the 24th Avenue in Oakland , Calif. , on Thursday , Dec. 19 , 2024 . The Oakland Fire Department extinguished the fire as soon as they arrived . No injuries were reported . ( Ray Chavez/Bay Area News Group ) An Oakland Athletics cap and a flower bouquet hang on the fence of the Field of Dreams , also named the Ricky Henderson Field in Oakland , Calif. , on Saturday , Dec. 21 , 2024 . The A 's legend Rickey Henderson died at age 65 . He would have been 66 on Christmas Day . ( Ray Chavez/Bay Area News Group ) An American white pelican glides across the calm waters of the Lafayette Reservoir in Lafayette , Calif. , on Thursday , Dec. 26 , 2024 . ( Jose Carlos Fajardo/Bay Area News Group ) 
@@119373110 <p> DEIR AL BALAH , Gaza Strip -- Israel 's army detained the director of one of northern Gaza ' s last functioning hospitals as overnight strikes elsewhere in the territory killed nine people , including children , Palestinian medical officials said Saturday . Israel 's military alleged that Hamas militants were using the facility and said over 240 people were detained . <p> Gaza 's Health Ministry said Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya , director of Kamal Adwan Hospital , was arrested Friday along with dozens of other staff and taken to an interrogation center . The ministry said Israeli troops stormed the hospital and forced many staff and patients outside and told them to strip in winter weather , according to the ministry . <p> Israel 's military on Saturday confirmed it detained the hospital director for questioning and called him a suspected Hamas operative while providing no evidence . It said it encircled the hospital and special forces entered and found weapons in the area . It said militants fired on its forces and they were " eliminated . " An Israeli military spokesman , Lt. Col. Nadav Shoshani , later asserted to journalists that most of those detained are Hamas operatives . <p> On Friday , the military denied it had entered or set fire to the hospital complex but acknowledged it had ordered people outside . The military repeated claims that Hamas militants operate inside Kamal Adwan , which hospital officials have denied . <p> The hospital has been hit multiple times over the past three months by Israeli troops waging an offensive in largely isolated northern Gaza against Hamas fighters it says have regrouped . The health ministry said a strike on the hospital earlier this week killed five medical personnel . <p> MedGlobal , the humanitarian organization for which Abu Safiya worked , said Friday it was gravely concerned about him . It said the incident follows the October detention of five other staff , calling it an " alarming and egregious pattern of targeting medical personnel and spaces . " <p> Israel 's nearly 15-month-old campaign of bombardment and ground offensives has devastated Gaza 's health sector . The World Health Organization has said the raid on Kamal Adwan has put northern Gaza 's last major health facility " out of service " after growing restrictions on access , adding that " this horror must end and health care must be protected . " <p> The Health Ministry said conditions for Kamal Adwan patients who were relocated to the damaged Indonesian Hospital nearby -- also raided in the past -- were " extremely difficult . " <p> The Israeli military statement Saturday said 350 patients along with medical personnel had been evacuated from Kamal Adwan in recent weeks , and another 95 patients , caregivers , and medical personnel were evacuated to the Indonesian Hospital during the operation . It also said it had provided fuel and medical supplies to both hospitals . <p> The war has killed more than 45,400 Palestinians , over half of them women and children , and wounded more than 108,000 others , according to the Health Ministry . Its count does not distinguish between civilians and combatants . <p> Since October , Israel 's offensive has virtually sealed off the northern Gaza areas of Jabaliya , Beit Hanoun and Beit Lahiya and leveled large parts of them . Tens of thousands of Palestinians were forced out but thousands are believed to remain in the area where Kamal Adwan and two other hospitals are located . <p> Israel has vowed to destroy Hamas after the militants ' Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack on southern Israel in which they killed around 1,200 people and abducted some 250 others . Some 100 Israelis remain captive in Gaza , and around a third are believed to be dead . <p> Israel continued attacks across Gaza on Saturday . An overnight strike killed at least nine people in Maghazi , including women and children , according to staff at Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital where they were taken and an Associated Press reporter who saw the bodies . <p> Men cried as the bodies , wrapped in bloodied white plastic , lay on the floor of the morgue . <p> The Health Ministry said Saturday that 48 people had been killed in the past 24 hours by Israeli fire . <p> Meanwhile , Israel said its troops had begun operating in the northern city of Beit Hanoun , citing intelligence that fighters and Hamas infrastructure were in the area . 
@@119373218 <h> The THAAD system , deployed in Israel by the United States in October , was activated to intercept the missile for the first time , the Times of Israel reported . <p> The deployment of THAAD in Israel followed an October 1 ballistic missile attack by Iran . <p> New Delhi : <p> The American Terminal High Altitude Area Defense ( THAAD ) missile defence system was used to intercept a ballistic missile launched at Israel from Yemen yesterday . The missile was reportedly fired by the Houthi rebels , a group backed by Iran . <p> The THAAD system , deployed in Israel by the United States in October , was activated to intercept the missile for the first time , the Times of Israel reported . Footage circulated on social media showing the system launching an interceptor , accompanied by the voice of an American soldier exclaiming , " Eighteen years I 've been waiting for this . " <p> While the Israeli Defense Forces ( IDF ) confirmed the missile 's interception , they did not specify whether the system used was Israeli or American . However , security sources told the Walla news site that THAAD had successfully engaged the missile , the report said . <p> The deployment of THAAD in Israel followed an October 1 ballistic missile attack by Iran . The advanced system is capable of intercepting missiles both inside and outside the Earth 's atmosphere . <p> The THAAD system , developed by the United States , is designed to intercept short- , medium- , and intermediate-range ballistic missiles during their terminal phase . Unlike conventional systems , THAAD relies on kinetic energy to neutralise threats , destroying incoming missiles through impact rather than an explosive warhead . <p> A standard THAAD battery includes six truck-mounted launchers , each capable of holding up to eight interceptors , along with a radar and a fire control system . The system 's radar can detect threats from a range of 870 to 3,000 kilometres . <p> The Houthi missile launch marked the fifth such attack on Israel in just eight days . The Iran-backed group claimed to have targeted Ben Gurion Airport . In response , Israeli warplanes launched strikes on Houthi targets in Yemen , including the Hezyaz power plant and infrastructure at Sanaa International Airport . <p> The Houthis have launched more than 200 missiles and 170 drones at Israel over the past year , according to the IDF , however , the majority of these threats were intercepted or fell short of their targets . The group has also disrupted commercial shipping in the Red Sea , targeting over 100 merchant vessels and forcing carriers to reroute . <p> The Houthis have explicitly linked their actions to the ongoing conflict in Gaza , which erupted on October 7 , 2023 , following Palestinian group Hamas ' attack on Israel . 
@@119378117 <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu will undergo prostate removal surgery on Sunday after he was diagnosed with a urinary tract infection , his office said . <p> The 75-year-old leader underwent a test at Hadassah Hospital on Wednesday , where he was " diagnosed with a urinary tract infection resulting from a benign prostate enlargement , " the prime minister 's office said in a statement . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu attends the fifth day of testimony in his trial on corruption charges at the district court in Tel Aviv on December 23 , 2024 . DEBBIE HILL/POOL/AFP via Getty Images <p> Israel has been at war against Hamas militants in the Gaza Strip for nearly 15 months after the Oct. 7 , 2023 attacks in southern Israel that killed around 1,200 people and abducted some 250 others . Some 100 Israelis remain captive in Gaza and around a third are believed to be dead . <p> The war has killed more than 45,400 Palestinians and wounded more than 108,000 others according to the Hamas-controlled Health Ministry in Gaza . Its count does not distinguish between civilians and combatants. 
@@119404108 <h> Loading .... <p> Former President Jimmy Carter teaches Sunday school at Maranatha Baptist Church , in Plains , Ga. , in November 2019 . John Amis/Associated Press , File <h> ABOUT THE AUTHOR <p> Shoshana Hoose lives in Portland . <p> As you calmly await death in Plains , Georgia , I send you this song from my home on the coast of Maine , a song by Albert E. Brumley that I sang to my own father when he was dying : <p> Some glad morning , when this life is over , I 'll fly away , <p> To a home on God 's celestial shore , I 'll fly away . <p> You and I have a long history , going back nearly half a century . Given how it began , I can hardly believe that I am writing to you now . <p> Back then , 1975 , I was a college student working as a congressional intern in Washington , D.C. After seven long years of the Nixon presidency , the Watergate scandal and its fallout , a presidential election was approaching . Several of those vying for the Democratic nomination spoke to the congressional interns . <p> Advertisement <p> My political heroes were the leaders of the civil rights and anti-war movements of the 1960s . They wanted to force America to live up to its ideals . You , by contrast , took a cautious , detail-oriented approach to social change . Your oratory left me yawning . It seemed impossible that you could win the Democratic nomination , never mind the presidency . <p> Yet , somehow , you pulled that off . <p> Fast forward to the fall of 1977 . I was working on a scientific project in the Negev Desert . I lived with young Israelis , many of them veterans of the bloody Yom Kippur War . On days off , I sometimes visited a Quaker friend who worked with Palestinians on the West Bank and in Gaza . That deeply unsettled my Israeli friends . They thought of Palestinians as their enemy . <p> And then , suddenly , the world changed . Egyptian President Anwar Sadat made his groundbreaking peace overture to Israel . You , President Carter , were in the right place at the right time to move the peace process forward . Through your patient coaxing , the Camp David Accords were signed . <p> Israelis who had grown up amid ongoing war with their Arab neighbors suddenly opened their minds to the possibility of a better future . You were the midwife who brought about that change . I found myself respecting you in a whole new way . <p> Fast forward to the fall of 1980 , another presidential election year . I was working as a reporter for a newspaper outside Washington . For the first time ever , I spent election night as an impartial observer rather than a campaign volunteer . My assignment was to cover Republican headquarters in Fairfax County , Virginia . <p> Advertisement <p> The election was a disaster for Democrats . Republicans won the presidency and the U.S. Senate . Every time news announcers reported that another Democratic senator had been defeated , the crowd at Republican headquarters whooped and cheered . I felt sick with grief as I carried out my reporting duties . <p> When you headed home to Plains after leaving office , I assumed that would be the last I ever thought of you . And it was , for a long time . <p> Years passed . I would read from time to time about how you were helping to build houses for Habitat for Humanity , or monitoring elections in places like Haiti . Like many Americans , I could see that you were crushing it as an ex-president . <p> Fast forward to today . The world is far scarier than it was during your presidency . We 're struggling with an ever-rising tide of gun violence . Climate change is accelerating . In the Middle East , the peace accords that you helped broker lie in shambles . <p> Through it all , you 've steadily held your course . You 've lived a life of integrity , one that made a real difference in the world . You have n't given up hope , even when some of your biggest accomplishments were destroyed . <p> I never thought that you , of all people , would be a role model for me . But you are , and for that , I am grateful . May you fly away gently to the peaceful place that you deserve . <h> Maine Voices Columns <p> Maine Voices columns ( 550-650 words ) should include the author 's name , address and daytime phone number . Columns may be edited for length and content . They may be emailed to : **27;701;TOOLONG 
@@119412808 <p> A ceasefire and hostage deal had not been reached yet because Hamas " does not want there to be a deal , " Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said in the weekly government meeting on Sunday . <p> During the meeting , the ministers attending were given a very limited briefing on the hostage deal talks . " The situation is less optimistic , " ministers told The Jerusalem Post . <p> The message conveyed to ministers was that " the negotiations for the hostage deal were stuck , " with Hamas " constantly trying to change direction in the talks . " <h> A meeting ahead of Netanyahu 's surgery <p> The ministers were also told that Hamas returned to demanding an end to the war as conditional for any deal.The government meeting took place prior to Netanyahu 's prostate removal surgery . A man walks past posters of hostages kidnapped during the deadly October 7 , 2023 attack by Hamas , amid the ongoing conflict in Gaza between Israel and Hamas , in Tel Aviv , Israel , November 25 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/Stoyan Nenov TPX IMAGES OF THE DAY ) <p> Netanyahu released a video statement as he walked out of the government meeting , stating he was leaving the meeting to go to the hospital and that he wanted to thank all those who sent him wishes for a speedy recovery . <p> In the clip , he was asked about the book he held in his hand and explained that it was the biography of John Churchill , Duke of Marlborough , a military leader in Britain , written by Winston Churchill . 
@@119412810 <h> IDF eliminates 14 Hamas terrorists , including six who invaded Israel on October 7 <h> The 162nd Division , guided by intelligence from the Intelligence Directorate , Shin Bet , and the Southern Command , spearheaded the targeted actions . <p> Names and photos of the terrorists eliminated by the 162nd Division , including six terrorists who participated in the October 7 Massacre ( photo credit : IDF SPOKESPERSON 'S UNIT ) <p> The IDF and Shin Bet ( Israel Security Agency ) killed 14 Hamas terrorists , including six who took part in the October 7 massacre over the course of extensive operations in Jabalya , Gaza , the military announced on Sunday . <p> In coordinated operations conducted by the IDF and ISA , several Hamas terrorists who participated in the October 7 massacre were neutralized in Jabalya and Beit Lahiya , Gaza . The 162nd Division , guided by intelligence from the Intelligence Directorate , Shin Bet , and the Southern Command , spearheaded the targeted actions . <p> On November 27 , 2024 , the Givati Brigade executed a precision raid in the Jabalya area . The operation eliminated Hamas terrorist Mohammed Abd al-Hamid Salah , who had infiltrated Israeli territory and actively participated in the October 7 massacre . Two additional Hamas commanders were also neutralized during the operation . <p> A day earlier , on November 26 , 2024 , the brigade carried out an intelligence-led strike in Jabalya . This operation resulted in the elimination of several key Hamas figures , including Rasem Judeh , a company commander in the Jabalya area , Zaher Abd Rabbo Mohammed Shahab , and Ali Magad Ali Ramadan , all of whom were involved in the October 7 attacks . Two additional Hamas commanders were also eliminated in the strike . Additional names and photos of the terrorists eliminated by the 162nd Division , including six terrorists who participated in the October 7 Massacre . ( credit : IDF SPOKESPERSON 'S UNIT ) <h> Months of operations <p> Approximately a month ago , the Kfir Brigade neutralized Mohammed Hamouda , another Hamas operative involved in the October 7 massacre . Alongside him , five additional Hamas terrorists were eliminated in the operation . <p> In the statement , the IDF and ISA reaffirm their unwavering commitment to targeting all individuals involved in the brutal October 7 massacre . These operations underline Israel 's determination to dismantle terrorist networks and safeguard its citizens . 
@@119412817 <p> The IDF said on Sunday that - if ordered - it will prolong keeping Jabalya cut-off from Gaza City . <p> While both Jabalya and Gaza City are broadly part of northern Gaza , Jabalya , along with Beit Hanun and Beit Lahiya , are part of the northernmost half of northern Gaza , which has been progressively emptied of most Palestinian terrorists and civilians alike since early October . <p> In early October , tens of thousands of Palestinians were evacuated to Gaza City and further South , while large numbers of Hamas terrorists were also killed . <p> Both due to global criticism and having exhausted the main Hamas areas to attack at the time , the IDF then returned to smaller scale mopping up operations of smaller terror cells for much of the last two months . <p> All of this has come as there is an ongoing debate about whether Israel is implementing a plan known as " the General 's Plan , " proposed by a number of senior former IDF officials , to empty all of northern Gaza of Palestinians and cut it off completely as a pressure move against Hamas . <p> The Biden administration and European allies loudly opposed the plan and Israel has denied it adopted the plan , but in practice seems to have been half-implementing it in parts of northern Gaza , while allowing some Palestinian to remain in Gaza City . IDF soldiers arrest terror suspects and evacuate patients from the Kamal Adwan Hospital in the Gaza Strip . ( credit : IDF SPOKESPERSON 'S UNIT ) <p> However on Friday , the IDF , in coordination with the Shin Bet ( Israel Security Agency ) , broke this pattern arresting over 240 terrorists in a targeted operation against Hamas 's latest attempt to reconstitute itself in northern gaza , largely embedded within the Kamal Adwan Hospital in Jabaliya . <p> In the weeks before the operation , the IDF already started clearing improvised explosive devices in the vicinity of the hospital as well as for most of the pathways and potential escape routes to and from the hospital . <p> Moreover , the IDF engaged in between three to four targeted attacks of smaller Hamas cells near the hospital , but was careful to avoid attacking the hospital itself . <h> IDF strategy <p> This was all part of an IDF strategy to lull the Hamas terrorists hiding in the hospital into a false sense of security . <p> When the IDF finally attacked on Friday , it needed only an hour to surround all routes to and from the hospital to lock down and block any Hamas terrorist escape attempts . <p> There was a short initial battle between Hamas terrorists and IDF soldiers , but all of those terrorists were quickly killed . <p> Two groups of terrorists also tried to escape in two different directions , but they were also killed by IDF forces , which had them surrounded . <p> Next , IDF officers called out the hospital director and explained to him the process for evacuating patients and detaining terrorists pretending to be patients . <p> Shortly after , hundreds of Palestinians emerged from the hospital into an isolated corridor where all persons could be checked . In the first ambulance of " patients , " the IDF found that 13 out of 21 passengers were uninjured and were terrorists pretending to be patients to try to flee arrest . They , and many others , were arrested one by one . Gazan patients and civilians evacuate from the Kamal Adwan Hospital in the Gaza Strip after the IDF eliminates Hamas terrorists in the area . ( credit : IDF SPOKESPERSON 'S UNIT ) <p> In addition , the IDF suggested that among those who were arrested , it was possible that new valuable intelligence regarding the remaining Israeli hostages may have been acquired , though , as always in such instances , the military can not reveal any specific information . <p> Ahead of the operation , the IDF facilitated the evacuation of 350 patients , caregivers , and medical personnel from the hospital in recent weeks , working closely with COGAT . During this period , tens of thousands of liters of fuel , food , and medical supplies were delivered to ensure the facility 's essential functioning , the IDF said . Gazan civilians evacuated from the Kamal Adwan Hospital after the IDF eliminated Hamas terrorists in the area . ( credit : IDF SPOKESPERSON 'S UNIT ) <p> On the day of the operation , an additional 95 patients and staff members were relocated to the Indonesian Hospital with the assistance of local health authorities . The IDF also provided 5,000 liters of fuel , two generators , and medical equipment to maintain critical systems at the Indonesian Hospital . Hundreds of civilians were evacuated through defined safety routes . <p> The IDF 's 401st Brigade encircled the hospital , apprehended terrorists in the vicinity , and eliminated those who resisted arrest and threatened the troops . <p> Within the hospital , Shayetet 13 special forces discovered and confiscated an arsenal of weapons , including grenades , firearms , and other military equipment . During the operation , terrorists attempted to launch anti-tank missiles and RPG attacks but were eliminated by the soldiers . The Israeli Air Force also eliminated terrorists attempting to flee the area . <p> The IDF added that the arsenal of weapons in the hospital was smaller than in some other Hamas-run hospitals , as Hamas had adjusted to IDF hospital invasions and moved much of its weaponry to apartments across the street from the hospital . These weapons were also separately confiscated . <p> No IDF casualties were reported during the mission . <h> Hundreds of terror suspects arrested <p> In total , the IDF apprehended over 240 individuals suspected of involvement in terrorist activities , some of whom tried to disguise themselves as patients or escape using ambulances . Among those detained was the hospital 's director , suspected of being a Hamas operative , along with other key Hamas and Islamic Jihad figures , including 15 individuals linked to the October 7 massacre . <p> Testimonies collected by Unit 504 and the ISA revealed that many detainees participated in terrorist operations in the area . <p> The IDF reiterated its commitment to adhering to international law regarding medical facilities , even when such facilities are exploited by Hamas for military purposes . <p> The Hamas-run Gaza Health Ministry announced just a few hours earlier that the hospital 's director , Hussam Abu Safiya , was arrested by the IDF during the raid . <p> The raid on the hospital , one of three medical facilities on the northern edge of Gaza , put the last major health facility in northern Gaza out of service , the World Health Organisation ( WHO ) said in a post on X on Friday , <p> Hamas claims that the Indonesian Hospital , where the IDF transferred fuel , as well as medical personnel and supplies , is n't in service . <h> IDF solider killed <p> Separately , the IDF announced on Sunday night that Yuval Shoham , 22 from Jerusalem , from the ninth battalion of the 401st brigade in the Tanks Command , was killed in battle in northern Gaza . <p> In a separate incident , a Nahal brigade soldier from the 931st battalion was wounded also in northern Gaza , by sniper fire . <p> Meanwhile , the IDF identified that approximately five projectiles were fired by Hamas from northern Gaza into Israel on Sunday afternoon , the military said shortly after the incident . <p> It added that two projectiles were intercepted , and the rest likely hit open areas . There have been no reports of any casualties or wounded from the incident . <p> This came after the air force on Saturday struck the rocket launchers in Gaza that were used to fire rockets at the Jerusalem , Yehuda , Western Negev , Lachish , HaShfela , and Yarkon areas of Israel earlier that day . <p> Also , the IAF struck a launcher containing a rocket that was ready to be fired , which unintentionally caused the rocket to be launched . The military did not note how far or where the rocket subsequently traveled or if it caused damage within Israeli territory or Gaza . <p> On Saturday , the IDF intercepted two rockets fired from Gaza over Israeli airspace before they could harm Israelis on the home front . The military noted they had been fired from the Beit Hanoun area in northern Gaza , triggering rocket alarms across the Jerusalem region . <p> " The widespread alerts stemmed from concerns over debris from the interception , " military officials stated . <h> Expansion of Gaza operations <p> The strike in Gaza comes amid orders to expand IDF operations in the Strip . IDF Chief of Staff Lt.-Gen . Herzi Halevi told the army on Saturday to reallocate forces from other sectors . <p> On Saturday , the IDF reported that the Nahal Brigade had concluded its operations in Rafah and had shifted its operations to move against terror targets in Beit Hanoun . <p> Israeli orders new evacuation in Beit Hanoun , residents say <p> The IDF had confirmed that troops were enabling civilians to evacuate the area through designated routes - ensuring they could safely remove themselves from the combat zone . <p> Other IDF units , including armored corps and combat engineering forces , have been instructed in recent days to prepare for redeployment to Gaza . <p> This forms part of efforts to increase military pressure on Hamas amid hostage-ceasefire negotiations . <p> The Southern Command has also restarted planning and conducting aerial operations as part of preparations for an expanded operation . <p> The IDF 's current efforts include operations by the 162nd Division in northern Gaza , the 99th Division in the Netzarim Corridor , and the Gaza Division in the buffer zone , the southern Gaza Strip , and along the Philadelphi Corridor . <p> In Syria , 17 people were allegedly killed , along with several others wounded , during a drone strike in the Adra area , located in the Damascus countryside , according to a Sunday afternoon Sky News Arabia report . <p> The report added that the strike was believed to be attributed to Israel . <p> However , sources gave the Jerusalem Post mixed signals about whether Israel was involved , implying it might not have been the IDF. 
@@119412818 <h> In an additional incident , a soldier from the 931st Battalion , Nahal Brigade , was critically wounded during combat . <p> St.-Sgt . Yuval Shoham was killed in battle while fighting in the Gaza Strip , the IDF announced on Sunday evening . <p> St.-Sgt . Shoham , 22 , from Jerusalem , served in the 9th Battalion in the 401st Brigade . <p> He fell in the northern Gaza Strip . <p> Furthermore , a soldier from the 931st Battalion , Nahal Brigade , was critically wounded during combat in an additional incident within the northern Gaza Strip , the IDF added . <p> Israel 's military said that the soldier had been evacuated to a hospital to receive medical treatment . IDF soldiers in northern Gaza Strip conducting operation in the area of the Indonesian Hospital , where a Hamas launch site was located . ( credit : IDF SPOKESMAN 'S UNIT ) <p> According to the IDF 's tally , the death of Shoham raises the total of soldiers killed on or since October 7 of last year to 824 . <p> Some 392 of this number were killed since the start of the military 's ground operations in the Strip on October 27. 
@@119412819 <h> Jerusalem weathered two rocket attacks after a period of relative quiet , but does this mark the start of a new era for the capital ? <p> This weekend has not been a quiet one for Jerusalem residents . The sudden targeting of Jerusalem from multiple fronts marks a troubling shift in the regional security landscape . <p> After months during which our capital enjoyed relative calm -- even as other areas faced continued threats -- Jerusalem found itself under attack from both the Houthis in Yemen and Hamas , all within a 24-hour period . <p> First , a rocket launched from Yemen set sirens off in Jerusalem , the Dead Sea , the southern West Bank , and the southern Negev a little after 2 a.m. on Saturday . The Houthi missile was intercepted by the Israel Air Force before it could cross into Israeli territory . <p> That attack came after a stream of late-night attacks by Yemen 's Houthis , one day after another , primarily aimed at central Israel , throughout the past week . Notably , one missile crashed into Jaffa last week , injuring approximately 16 people . <p> Then , a little after 4 p.m. that same day , rocket sirens sounded throughout Jerusalem due to rockets fired from the Gaza Strip . A map of everywhere sirens sounded in Israel early Saturday morning , December 28 , 2024. ( credit : screenshot ) <h> Out of the blue attack <p> Two rockets were launched from Beit Hanun toward Jerusalem and were successfully intercepted by the IAF . <p> The IDF has been consistent in its attacks in Gaza since shortly after the war broke out and , in recent weeks , in Yemen as well . That first attack by the Houthis showed that they were not deterred by Israel 's actions and were prepared to retaliate . <p> It does not do harm that reports have begun to pop up of Israel 's international allies -- namely , the US and the UK -- striking Houthi targets in northwest Yemen as well . <p> Hamas 's attack , however , was relatively out of the blue . Hamas 's power has been severely decreased by the IDF 's comprehensive operation in the Gaza Strip . <p> The attack came at the same time as some significant advancements in the Gaza Strip . The IDF , in coordination with the Shin Bet ( Israel Security Agency ) , began an operation on Friday that resulted in the arrest of over 240 terrorists in a targeted operation against Hamas terror infrastructure embedded within the Kamal Adwan Hospital in Jabalya , northern Gaza . <p> Before the operation , they coordinated the evacuation of 350 patients and staff members , with an additional 95 being moved to the Indonesian Hospital on the day of the operation . The IDF provided fuel , generators , and medical supplies to both facilities . <p> During the operation , special forces discovered weapons inside the hospital , and several terrorists who resisted arrest or attempted attacks were eliminated . Among those arrested was the hospital 's director and 15 individuals allegedly connected to the October 7 attack . The IDF reported no casualties among their forces . <p> The IDF emphasized that they maintained compliance with international law regarding medical facilities , despite Hamas 's military use of the hospital . <p> Then , IDF Arabic spokesperson Col. Avichay Adraee issued an urgent evacuation warning for Gazans in the northern Gaza area , just after the rocket siren in Jerusalem . <p> So even while the IDF is effectively disabling Hamas 's key infrastructure in the Gaza Strip , it still not only has the firepower but also the motivation to go so far as to attack Jerusalem , the capital of Israel -- and one of the holiest cities for Islam , too . <p> This development is particularly concerning as Jerusalem had stood as a relative island of stability during recent months of regional tension . <p> The breaking of this calm through a multifront assault represents more than just another security incident -- it potentially signals the opening of a new phase in the ongoing conflict , one where our enemies demonstrate both the capability and willingness to target a sort of no-man's-land when it comes to aerial action . <p> The implications extend far beyond the immediate security concerns . Such an escalation , if left unchecked , could embolden other hostile actors in the region to join in similar efforts . 
@@119443108 <p> Protesters march past the U.S. Capitol on Dec. 17 , 2022 , during a rally and vigil in solidarity with protesters in Iran , in Washington Credit : Nathan Howard / AP <p> The BDN Opinion section operates independently and does not set news policies or contribute to reporting or editing articles elsewhere in the newspaper or on bangordailynews.com <p> Six months ago , at the end of Iran 's presidential election , I finished an article by speculating that the long-lived theocratic dictatorship in Iran may be a lot closer to its end than its beginning : " If you can plausibly say ' This can not go on forever , ' you are also saying ' Some day this will come to an end . ' " <p> That observation was triggered by the fact that the " reformist " presidential candidate , Masoud Pezeshkian , unexpectedly won the July election . The previous president had been killed in a helicopter crash , and the regime had fumbled in setting up a snap election to replace him . <p> Pezeshkian was the only token " moderate " in a field of four candidates , but he managed to make it into the last two for the second round -- and then , in the run-off vote , something remarkable happened . <p> Fewer than half the voters had bothered to show up for the first round of voting , because they assumed that the fix was in . Suddenly , however , the moderate candidate had a chance of winning -- and 7 million extra voters showed up for the second round and carried the " reformist " to victory . <p> It was only a small victory , because Pezeshkian is very timid ( otherwise he would n't have been allowed even to run ) , but more importantly because Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei has been the real and absolute ruler of Iran ever since Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini died in 1989 . It just showed that the public would prefer somebody else . <p> That does n't count for much in a theocracy . It just allowed for a bit of speculation about the long-term future of the country . But a lot has happened in the Middle East since last July , and none of it has been good news for the Iranian regime . <p> First , the vaunted " axis of resistance " that Iran had created to keep Israel on the defensive and boost its own power has been largely dismantled in the past six months . <p> Hamas in the Gaza Strip has been mostly destroyed , the Hezbollah organization that dominated Lebanon is disabled and the recent overthrow of the Assad regime in Syria has eliminated Iran 's strongest supporter in the region . <p> That was a homegrown revolt by Sunni Islamists backed by Turkey , and it 's part of a broader decline of Shiite power in the region 's politics . Shiite Iran no longer has any allies in the Arab countries that border on Israel , and there is little chance that it can win them back . <p> Worse yet for Tehran , the tit-for-tat missile strikes between Iran and Israel over the past few months showed that Iran 's missiles for the most part can not get through , while the Israeli air force could and did destroy most of Iran 's air defenses . The country is virtually naked militarily . <p> Even more dangerous for the regime is the accelerating decline of the economy . It was undermined by decades of overspending abroad to spread its radical religious message , but equally by underinvestment at home since Iran 's attempts to sponsor revolutions elsewhere led to stringent international sanctions against it . <p> The damage has been extreme . Iran 's per capita gross domestic product in 1976 , a couple of years before the Islamist takeover , was $7,600 . Now it is only $5,700 , despite all the oil and gas . <p> Per capita GDP in next-door Turkey , similar in size , resources and population but with little gas or oil , was only $1,270 in 1976 . It is now $13,000 . Which one would you prefer ? <p> Iran has the world 's second-largest natural gas reserves and third-largest oil reserves , but the rot has gone so deep that it can not even keep the lights and the heat on . <p> There were frequent brief power outages last summer , but this winter the electricity is going off for days at a time . Factories , steel plants and the like are shutting down ; schools and universities are teaching remotely . A lot of people are unhappy or downright angry , and they know who to blame . <p> There have been three episodes of prolonged mass protests against the regime ( 2009 , 2019 and 2022 ) , and despite the cold winter weather another one could be on the way now . Or not ; these things are unpredictable . <p> But we can probably now say with some confidence : " Some day SOON this will come to an end . " 
@@119448904 <h> The US reiterated that it condemned the Houthis ' latest attacks on Israel and supports Israel 's right to self-defense at the UNSC meeting . <p> A general view of the United Nations Security Council during a meeting on " Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe , " at the UN headquarters in New York , US , May 4 , 2023. ( photo credit : REUTERS/DAVID ' DEE ' DELGADO ) <p> The US called on the UN Security Council to respond to Iran 's " flagrant violations " of its resolutions to arming terrorist groups , and implored members with direct channels to Tehran to press its leaders to stop the Houthis from launching attacks that put civilians in harm 's way . <p> " It is past time for the Houthis to cease their reckless and destabilizing behavior , and this council should ensure that there are consequences for their actions , " the US said on Monday during the UNSC 's emergency session on the threat of the Houthis . <p> The session followed last week 's petition from Foreign Minister Gideon Sa'ar to convene the meeting . <p> " The Houthis have also taken hostages , including UN workers . I call on all countries who seek global stability to designate the Houthis as a terrorist organization , " Sa'ar said on Monday . <p> " It 's time for the international community to take action to counter the Houthis ' aggression . " Newly recruited fighters who joined a Houthi military force intended to be sent to fight in support of the Palestinians in the Gaza Strip , march during a parade in Sanaa , Yemen December 2 , 2023 ( credit : REUTERS/KHALED ABDULLAH ) <h> Houthis ' latest attacks on Israel <p> The US reiterated that it condemned the Houthis ' latest attacks on Israel and supports Israel 's right to self-defense , a statement also supported by the United Kingdom . <p> While the UK said , " Iran bears responsibility for the actions of its proxies , " it also said Israeli action must be consistent with international humanitarian law . <p> The UK added that it is concerned by Israel 's strikes on Yemeni civilian infrastructure , including Thursday 's strike on Sana'a 's airport , in which three people were killed and 16 were wounded . <p> UNSC members , including South Korea , Ecuador , Japan , France , and Switzerland , echoed the condemnation of the Houthis ' attacks on Israel , while also raising concern over Israel 's attack on the airport . <p> South Korea said that while Israel had its own reasons for responding to the Houthis , it must not hinder humanitarian assistance . <p> Japan , condemning the Houthis , said the group has to realize its conduct is not helping the Palestinians as it claims to . <p> Japan also said the Security Council can not turn a blind eye to the amount of weapons the Houthis have in their possession . <p> The Russian Federation , meanwhile , ignoring its relationship with Tehran , said violence is on the rise , and the Security Council should n't " dismiss the broader context , " as many hotspots of tension are provoked by Israel 's actions against the Palestinians . <p> While Russia did condemn the Houthis ' attacks in northern Israel and in Jaffa , it made no mention at all of Iran . <p> Danny Danon , Israel 's ambassador to the UN , described how the Houthis attacked the school he attended in his hometown . <p> " It 's time the world wakes up , " Danon said , noting Iran was the elephant in the room . " Iran 's fingerprints are on every missile , every drone . " <p> Danon issued on Monday what he called a " final warning " to the Houthis to halt their missile attacks on Israel , saying they otherwise risked the same " miserable fate " as Hamas , Hezbollah , and Syria 's Bashar al-Assad if they persisted . <p> He also warned Tehran that Israel has the ability to strike any target in the Middle East -- including in Iran -- and that Israel would not tolerate attacks by Iranian proxies . <p> The Houthis have repeatedly fired drones and missiles towards Israel in what they describe as acts of solidarity with Palestinians under Israeli fire in Gaza . <p> " To the Houthis , perhaps you have not been paying attention to what has happened to the Middle East over the past year . Well , allow me to remind you what has happened to Hamas , to Hezbollah , to Assad , to all those who have attempted to destroy us . Let this be your final warning . This is not a threat . It is a promise . You will share the same miserable fate , " Danon told the UNSC . <p> Speaking before the meeting , Danon told reporters : " Israel will defend its people . If 2,000 km. is not enough to separate our children from the terror , let me assure you , it will not be enough to protect their terror from our strengths . " 
@@119448905 <h> Houthis brag about thirteen attacks on Israel - analysis <h> An IRNA report indicates how the Houthis are carrying out their attacks in order to show off their capabilities to the Iranian regime . <p> Armed Houthi followers hold RPG launchers as they take part in a parade during a protest to decry the U.S.-led strikes on Houthi targets and to show support to Palestinians in the Gaza Strip , amid the ongoing conflict between Israel and the Palestinian Islamist group Hamas , near Sanaa , Yemen Januar ( photo credit : REUTERS/KHALED ABDULLAH ) <p> The Iranian-backed Houthis say that they have carried out 13 attacks on Israel over the last ten days . The claims were repeated by Iran 's state media . This indicates how the Houthis are carrying out their attacks in order to show off their capabilities to the Iranian regime . <p> The IRNA report said that according to " sources , the group said in a statement that these attacks were in line with support for Palestinians in the Gaza Strip and in response to the regime 's aggression against Yemen . " <p> The report went on to note that the spokesperson for the group " was cited by media as saying that most of these operations targeted the Tel Aviv region in central Israel . " The Houthis have launched numerous missile attacks on Israel over the last two weeks . <h> Houthis escalated attacks <p> This is one of the first indications of how the Houthis view their escalation . It is clear they have escalated attacks in December , with ballistic missiles launched every tow days at Israel during the last two weeks of December . The report says the " attacks were carried out from December 19 to 29 . <p> On Saturday , Ansarullah also targeted the Navatim Air Base in southern Israel , in the Negev region , with a ' Palestine 2 ' type hypersonic ballistic missile , which the resistance group said was successful . " This is important because it indicates what the targets of the Houthi attacks have been . Security forces loyal to Yemen 's Huthi movement march in the Huthi-run capital Sanaa in support of the Palestinians and against the US and Israel , on December 18 , 2024. ( credit : MOHAMMED HUWAIS/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> The Iranian report also claimed the Houthis have targeted Ben-Gurion International airport . They took credit for preventing flights temporarily to the airport . The Houthis " said the attack was in response to Israeli airstrikes on Sana'a and Hudaydah in the past few days . Yemeni armed forces have threatened to expand their range of targets in Israel and to respond with countermeasures to any escalation by Tel Aviv . " <p> This is an important indication of how the Houthis are attempting to replace other Iranian-backed proxies as the main front against Israel . At the same time this week , Iran 's president has called for closer ties with Oman . <p> Oman is a neighbor of Yemen . " Pezeshkian hailed the longstanding friendly relationship between Iran and Oman and emphasized that further development of bilateral ties is of paramount importance to Iran , " Iran 's state media said . Iran 's leader also said he supports regional peace . 
@@119448906 <h> According to the IDF , locating and killing Hamas forces was made possible by ongoing intelligence collection , operations to trick the forces into an ambush , and both tank fire and soldiers ' gunfire . <p> The IDF said on Monday that it had killed dozens more of Hamas terrorists in Jabalya only a day after it said that the terror group was nearly cleared out of the northern Gaza area . <p> According to the military , locating and killing the Hamas forces was made possible by a mix of ongoing intelligence collection , operations to trick the forces into an ambush , and both tank fire and soldiers ' nearby gunfire . <p> To date , the IDF has invaded Jabalya in fall 2023 , again in May of this year , and again in October of this year . <p> By December 2023 , the IDF declared Jabalya under operational control and Hamas 's battalions broken . <p> After the May invasion , the IDF said it had destroyed 12 kilometers of Hamas tunnels and killed between 300-500 terrorists , leaving the area relatively clear of Hamas . IDF soldiers arrest terror suspects and evacuate patients from the Kamal Adwan Hospital in the Gaza Strip . ( credit : IDF SPOKESPERSON 'S UNIT ) <p> After several weeks of operations in Jabalya starting from this October , the IDF again said that most of the terrorists there were cleared . <p> That was until Friday and Sunday , when the IDF said that it had killed dozens more terrorists and arrested around 204 more terrorists . <p> At that point , the IDF again said that Jabalya was essentially cleared . <h> Progress against Hamas <p> However , Monday 's announcement of the IDF having killed dozens more Hamas forces , while a positive tactical sign for progress against Hamas , suggested that IDF intelligence is consistently wrong about how many Hamas forces remain in a given area like Jabalya . <p> Part of the reason for this could be the large number of Palestinian terrorists who fake being unarmed civilians most of the time . <p> Another reason could be that Hamas continues to successfully find new recruits among adolescent and minor Palestinians , who have very little to do with their time , and an unprecedented number of whom have had family and friends killed by the IDF during this war . <p> The IDF also believes and hopes that the recent rocket fire from northern Gaza has been Hamas rushing to clear out its last inventory of rockets from the area before the military bears down on them , but to date , the IDF has not been able to fully stop rocket fire from Gaza . <p> This failure to clear out all of the terrorists even out of one area of the northern half of northern Gaza ( without even attempting to fully do so in all of northern Gaza or the rest of Gaza ) could be one reason why IDF sources on Sunday were more forthright about admitting that - if ordered - it will prolong keeping Jabalya cut-off from Gaza City . <p> While both Jabalya and Gaza City are broadly part of northern Gaza , Jabalya , along with Beit Hanoun and Beit Lahiya , are part of the northernmost half of northern Gaza , which have been progressively emptied of most Palestinian terrorists and civilians alike since early October . <p> In early October , the IDF evacuated tens of thousands of Palestinians to Gaza City and further South , while large numbers of Hamas terrorists were also killed . <p> Both due to global criticism and having exhausted the main Hamas areas to attack at the time , the IDF then returned to smaller scale mopping up operations of smaller terror cells for much of the last two months . <p> All of this has come as there is an ongoing debate about whether Israel is implementing a plan known as " the General 's Plan , " proposed by a number of senior former IDF officials , to empty all of northern Gaza of Palestinians and cut it off completely as a pressure move against Hamas . <p> The Biden administration and European allies loudly opposed the plan and Israel has denied it adopted the plan , but in practice seems to have been half-implementing it in parts of northern Gaza , while allowing some Palestinian to remain in Gaza City . <p> However on Friday , the IDF , in coordination with the Shin Bet ( Israel Security Agency ) , broke this pattern arresting over 240 terrorists in a targeted operation against Hamas 's latest attempt to reconstitute itself in northern gaza , largely embedded within the Kamal Adwan Hospital in Jabaliya. 
@@119448915 <h> The IDF called it " another example of Hamas ' cynical use of the citizens and civilian institutions in Gaza for terrorist acts in blatant violation of international law . " <p> In an operation carried out last week , IDF forces completed their mission to thwart terrorism in the Indonesian hospital area. ( photo credit : IDF SPOKESPERSON 'S UNIT ) <p> Hamas terrorists were captured on footage plating explosives 45 meters from the Indonesian Hospital in Beit Lahia in northern Gaza , the IDF revealed on Monday night . <p> IDF troops under the command of the 162nd Brigade killed terrorists who tried to flee the hospital and neutralized the areas nearby that were rigged with explosives in an operation that was completed last week . <p> Dozens of terrorists were also arrested . <p> The IDF called it " another example of Hamas ' cynical use of the citizens and civilian institutions in Gaza for terrorist acts in blatant violation of international law . " <h> Expanded operations <p> This comes after the IDF said on Sunday that it may need to prolong keeping nearby Jabalya cut-off from Gaza City amid the military 's expanded operations to wipe northern Gaza clear of regrouping Hamas cells , and following the massive bust of Hamas activity in Kamal Adwan Hospital in Jabalya on Friday . <p> On Friday , the IDF and the Shin Bet ( Israel Security Agency ) arrested over 240 terrorists in a targeted operation against Hamas terror infrastructure embedded within the Kamal Adwan Hospital . <p> Both Jabalya and Gaza City are broadly part of northern Gaza . Beit Hanun and Beit Lahia are also part of the northernmost half of the enclave . <p> The backdrop of this is continuing debate about whether Israel will implement a plan known as " the General 's Plan , " to empty all of northern Gaza of Palestinians and cut it off completely . <p> The IDF , in coordination with the Shin Bet , arrested over 240 terrorists in a targeted operation against Hamas terror infrastructure embedded within the Kamal Adwan Hospital in Jabaliya , northern Gaza , the military announced on Friday . 
@@119473612 <h> Inside the most bizarre Congress in recent memory <p> The power struggles of the 118th Congress will reverberate for years to come . <p> By Scott Wong and Frank Thorp VPhotography by Frank Thorp V <p> Dec. 31 , 2024 <h> Inside the most bizarre Congress in recent memory <p> The power struggles of the 118th Congress will reverberate for years to come . <p> By Scott Wong and Frank Thorp VPhotography by Frank Thorp V <p> Dec. 31 , 2024 <p> WASHINGTON -- The most expensive House primary in history . A stunning coup to unseat a sitting speaker . The frenzied battle to succeed him . A public campaign by congressional Democrats to force their own incumbent president off the ballot . <p> Lawmakers have grown tired of the word " unprecedented , " but the 118th Congress was unlike anything Washington has ever seen . <p> The last two years were a story about the struggle for power . Between the old and the new guard , the Washington establishment and disruptive insurgents , and the two sides in the Israel-Palestinian conflict . At the center of that struggle were six lawmakers who , in big and small ways , made an impact that will reverberate into the next Congress that begins in January and will certify the election win of President-elect Donald Trump . <h> Kevin McCarthy , R-Calif . <p> In the first days of the 118th Congress , amid a grueling 15 rounds of voting -- the longest speaker floor fight since before the Civil War -- Kevin McCarthy began privately expressing doubts to his staff that he would be successful . <p> That 's when he got a call from his longtime friend , the legendary sportscaster Jim Gray . " You do Al Davis : ' You just win , baby , ' " Gray told him . <p> McCarthy said the pep talk re-energized him , and in the early morning of Jan. 7 , 2023 , the California Republican finally prevailed . <p> Being counted out , then defying his critics has been a constant theme throughout McCarthy 's life . As a young man in Bakersfield , he was rejected from a summer internship in his local congressman 's office . He would later get a job in that office and then win the seat himself in 2007 . Eight years later , he abruptly quit a speaker 's race amid a different rebellion on the right , and pundits declared his political career dead . It would take him another eight years to secure one of the top prizes in American politics . <p> By May , McCarthy had struck a massive deal with President Joe Biden to extend the debt ceiling for two years and modestly cap spending . <p> His speakership would be short-lived . McCarthy became the first speaker ever to be removed in the middle of his term through a motion to vacate , forced out by his archenemy , then-Rep . Matt Gaetz , R-Fla . His 269-day speakership was the third-shortest in history . <p> His running feud with Gaetz has been one of the nastiest on Capitol Hill in recent memory . " He 's a real sociopath , " said McCarthy . <p> And McCarthy pushed back on 269 days , saying he served in nearly every major leadership position -- chief deputy whip , majority whip , majority leader , minority leader and speaker -- over 14 years . <p> " I look at being leader that entire time , " he said . <p> Once floated as a potential White House chief of staff or Cabinet member in Trump 's second term , McCarthy said he told the president-elect early on , " I do n't want anything . " <p> He 's now giving speeches in places like Tokyo and Abu Dhabi and advising wealthy business leaders . But as he peered at the Capitol in the distance , McCarthy said he still gets " goosebumps " whenever he sets foot in the building . <p> " Regrets ? No . ... Your stumbles , the good and the bad , make you who you are , and those are the things I learned from , " he said . " I enjoyed every minute of it , every challenge . " <p> " I 'd do it all again tomorrow . " <h> Speaker Mike Johnson , R-La . <p> Rep. Mike Johnson began the 118th Congress as the No. 7 Republican in House leadership . Nearly 300 days later , the relatively unknown conservative Louisianan leapfrogged over more powerful leaders to become speaker of the House and second in line to the presidency . <p> It was a stunning , meteoric rise for the former constitutional attorney and state lawmaker , who was first elected to Congress just seven years earlier . For Johnson , it paid off being in the right place at the right time -- and not having any political enemies . <p> Despite his reputation as a pro-Trump conservative warrior , the speaker spent his first year cutting several deals with a Democratic president -- on averting government shutdowns ; military aid for Ukraine , Israel and Taiwan ; and the renewal of a key surveillance program known as FISA Section 702 . He alsosurvived a GOP-led coup , similar to the one that took out McCarthy , thanks to help from Democrats who opted against more chaos . <p> " I try to have camaraderie with everybody in politics , even if they 're in the opposing party , and even if we do n't agree on anything . " <p> " President Biden and I agree on almost nothing with regard to public policy , but I respect the office and I always keep that in mind , " Johnson said in an interview with NBC News in the speaker 's office earlier this year . <p> " These are dangerous times . They 're very difficult times . They 're fateful times for the country , " Johnson continued . " I think whoever serves as president and speaker of the House , by necessity they have to have some sort of open relationships so that they can address the major problems that we 're facing as a nation . " <p> Johnson defended his approach weeks before the election , telling NBC News : " Everyone else can evaluate my performance , but what we 've tried to do is maintain steady hands at the wheel , not derail the train , which -- there were many opportunities to do that over the last 11 months . " <h> Rep. Matt Gaetz , R-Fla . <p> Depending on one 's politics , Gaetz could be seen as a conservative crusader or a far-right villain . Either way , he had a lasting impact on the 118th Congress . <p> On day one , Gaetz led a small band of GOP rebels in blocking McCarthy from winning the speaker 's gavel , a standoff not seen in a century . Gaetz only relented in the 15th round of voting , after Trump began making calls and a fed-up Rep. Mike Rogers , R-Ala. , lunged at Gaetz on the floor . <p> " It shows that every once in a while in this town , the little guy can win . And I hope that gives generations of members of Congress beyond my time here the gumption to rage against the machine a little bit , " Gaetz said in an interview in September . <p> " We need change agents here . We do n't need more people here that just want to follow the leader . This place needs disruption . " <p> Democrats could have stepped in and saved McCarthy 's speakership , but they chose not to . " I knew how to play the hand I was dealt , " Gaetz said . " If Kevin McCarthy knew that , he 'd probably still be speaker . " <p> But spending was not cut dramatically this Congress and the government has continued to operate under the same kinds of short-term funding bills he ousted McCarthy over . Gaetz did raise his national profile , earning himself a nod from Trump to be the next attorney general , but he withdrew over opposition from GOP senators and scrutiny of a House Ethics Committee probe concerning allegations of drug abuse and sexual misconduct . <p> The committee released its 42-page report right before Christmas , finding " substantial evidence that Representative Gaetz violated House Rules and other standards of conduct prohibiting prostitution , statutory rape , illicit drug use , impermissible gifts , special favors or privileges , and obstruction of Congress . " <p> Gaetz has denied all of the allegations , noting that a Justice Department investigation into himended without charges . And he has suggested that his foes and allies in the Republican Party may not have seen the last of him yet , hinting at a potential bid for Senate or governor in 2026 . <h> Rep. Angie Craig , D-Minn . <p> " I went home that weekend and ... very quickly came to the conclusion that Joe Biden could not campaign and win , " Craig said in an interview before the election . <p> " I needed to tell my constituents , " she said . " I needed to tell the country that we were sleepwalking into a situation where Donald Trump was about to be president again . " <p> Nine days after the debate , Craig became the first Democrat up for re-election in a " battleground " seat to call on Biden to drop out -- a dramatic development that led to a wave of others following suit . <p> She faced immediate backlash . <p> " I felt a responsibility ... to tell people , even in my own party , what they did n't want to hear , " Craig said . <p> Biden eventually quit the race and Vice President Kamala Harris became the nominee in search of a running mate . Once again , Craig injected herself into the debate , aggressively pitching her home-state governor , Tim Walz , for the job in conversations with colleagues and reporters . <p> There was one problem . " I walked onto the House floor ... and thought , ' Oh , s--- , I actually have n't talked to Tim Walz about whether he wants to be VP or not . ' And actually ran into the cloakroom , called Tim , " she said . <p> To Craig , Walz was the only potential VP pick who could appeal to rural America and the various factions of the Democratic Party . He was open to it . <p> Walz and Harris lost decisively to Trump in the Electoral College , but only narrowly lost the popular vote . That helped House Democrats stave off a big GOP wave . Trump " would have taken , I believe , if Biden had stayed on the top of the ticket , 30 to 40 House seats with him , " Craig said , including her own . <p> After the election , Craig , who is 52 and was first elected in 2018 , took on the old guard again , launching an insurgent challenge against two much more senior , septuagenarian lawmakers to be the top Democrat on the Agriculture Committee . She won easily . <h> Rep. Patrick McHenry , R-N.C . <p> Rep. Patrick McHenry , R-N.C. , toiled behind the scenes in Congress for two decades , rising to chair the Financial Services Committee , where he could influence fiscal policy while avoiding the spotlight . <p> But he may best be remembered for a spontaneous act of frustration on Oct. 3 , 2023:slamming down the gavel in the Houseafter he had been named the temporary successor to McCarthy , his close ally and friend . <p> " There was no forethought to that , " McHenry recalled . " I 'm like a backstage guy . " <p> " I 'm the guy that talks to you before you go out and when you come back , right ? ... That 's what I like doing -- not this . Not this . " <p> Moments before , McHenry was told he 'd have a protective detail shadowing his every move . From the dais , he peered out onto the House floor and spotted McCarthy now seated among the rank and file . " Looking at McCarthy and realizing he had busted his ass for 20 years to be speaker -- this is unjust . This is just not right . And the spark of that just made it emotional , " McHenry said . <p> It quickly settled in that he would have to shepherd House Republicans through this mess and find a new speaker . It would take them 23 days . <p> It was n't the first time that McHenry had gotten the call from the bullpen . In 2017 , McHenry had to fill in as the GOP vote counter after Majority Whip Steve Scalise , R-La. , was nearly killed by a gunman at a Republican congressional baseball practice . And in 2023 , McCarthy had tapped McHenry and another top lieutenant , Rep. Garret Graves , R-La. , to negotiate a deal with the White House to avoid a catastrophic debt default . <p> A few months after McCarthy was ousted , McHenry announced this was his last term . While he held the speaker 's gavel for a few weeks , it 's that bipartisan debt ceiling deal , a policy issue with real " stakes " -- that he 's most proud of . <h> Rep. Jamaal Bowman , D-N.Y . <p> The Israel-Hamas war bitterly divided Democrats this Congress . And nowhere was that clearer than in the most expensive House primary in U.S. history : a Democrat-on-Democrat war in New York . <p> In the end , New York Rep.Jamaal Bowman , the brash and burly pro-Palestinian progressive , could n't overcome a deluge of outside spending by pro-Israel groups to unseat him . He lost to Westchester County Executive George Latimer and became the first member of the left-wing " Squad " to lose re-election . Rep. Cori Bush , D-Mo. , another fierce Israel critic and fellow Black member of the Squad , lost her re-election as well , twin defeats this summer , spurred by record outside spending , that sent shockwaves through the Democratic Party , infuriating progressives and delighting Israel 's allies . <p> Not one to mince words , Bowman , who has denounced Israel 's war in Gaza as a " genocide " and voted against military aid for Israel , is unapologetic about how he handled the issue in a district with a large concentration of Jewish voters . <p> " I 'm a badass motherf----- . For someone to have to spend $25 million to beat me -- that must mean I 'm a bad motherf----- . ... I must be doing the right thing , fighting for the right things , and they are desperate and scared , " Bowman said in an interview in his office . <p> Sporting a Public Enemy T-shirt , Bowman said he is not ruling out running for political office in the future : " U.S. Senate , yes , governor , yes , mayor , yes . " <p> " This is not just about me . It 's about the kind of politics that I think needs to be more represented here in Congress , which is a politics that unapologetically stands up for working-class people , Black and brown people , and Palestinians . " he said . 
@@119475818 <h> Jaishankar in Doha for talks , to prepare for Qatari Emir visit in February amidst West Asia outreach <h> EAM 's third visit in six months raises hopes for return of eighth former Naval officer , delayed by nearly a year ; New Delhi 's diplomatic outreach to West Asia includes significant visit from Iranian Minister on January 2 <p> External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar is in Doha for a 3-day visit over the New Year for a series of bilateral meetings , as well as to prepare for a visit by Qatar 's Emir Sheikh Tamim ibn Hamad Al Thani to India , expected early next month , sources told The Hindu . <p> During Prime Minister Narendra Modi 's visit to Qatar last February , he had met and invited Sheikh Al Thani to India . The Emir 's visit is part of New Delhi 's recent broader outreach to the Gulf region , as Israel 's bombardment of Gaza continues , with the effects of the West Asian crisis now spreading to Lebanon , Syria , and Yemen . <p> Mr. Jaishankar was due to meet the Prime Minister and Foreign Minister of Qatar Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman bin Jassim Al Thani in Doha , and to discuss " political , trade , investment , energy , security , cultural , and people-to-people " ties as well as " regional and international issues of mutual interest " , the Ministry of External Affairs ( MEA ) said in a statement before his departure . <h> Naval officer stuck in Doha <p> Mr. Jaishankar 's visit to Qatar , his third in six months , has also raised hopes for the return of the eighth former Naval officer convicted for spying in 2023 , who has been detained in Doha while others on death row along with him were pardoned . The decision to drop the death penalty against all eight men was taken at the end of December 2023 , but while seven men were released and returned to India in February 2024 , Commander ( Retired ) Purnendu Tiwari has been held back under a travel ban . <p> The MEA has said that the former Naval officer , who was also decorated with the Pravasi Bharatiya Samman , is required to complete certain " formalities " in the Qatari legal system . According to officials , the pending requirements pertain to financial charges against the Dahra Global company where Mr. Tiwari was Managing Director and the other seven former naval personnel were employed . <h> Family 's plea <p> However , Mr. Tiwari 's family has rejected any charges of wrongdoing , pleading to the Prime Minister to " intervene " and facilitate his return at the earliest . <p> " MEA made blunder in leaving my brother alone &amp; now they should not take refuge by citing his financial case , which is as absurd as the first case of spying ... It is becoming difficult day by day to explain to his 86-year-old mother as to why the Government of India has left her son only while seven others are back to India , " Mr. Tiwari 's sister Meetu Bhargava , who has been repeatedly petitioning the government for help , said on social media on December 21 . <h> Wooing West Asia <p> Among a number of bilateral visits meant to shore up India 's ties with the troubled region , Mr. Modi has travelled to Kuwait while Mr. Jaishankar visited Bahrain , and twice travelled to Qatar in December . After the proposed visit of the Qatari Emir to India , expected in the first or second week of February , Mr. Jaishankar is expected to travel to Oman . The Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi Sheikh Khaled bin Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan and Foreign Minister of Saudi Arabia Prince Faisal bin Farhan Al Saud also visited Delhi in the last few months . <p> In addition , New Delhi will receive Iranian Vice Minister for External Affairs Takht Ravanchi on January 2 as its first high-level diplomatic visitor in 2025 . He is coming for annual Foreign Office consultations with Foreign Secretary Vikram Misri and will meet Mr. Jaishankar as well . <h> Iran ties <p> The visit from the new Iranian government is significant , given its growing tensions with Israel , as well as the imminent inauguration of incoming U.S. President Donald Trump later in January . Mr. Trump is expected to take a tougher line on Iran , and to step up sanctions , which will affect India as well . <p> The Foreign Office consultations were meant to be held in 2024 , but were delayed amidst a year in which Iran exchanged missile attacks with Israel , lost its President and Foreign Minister in a helicopter crash , and faced a severe weakening of its international influence due to the Israeli operations against Hamas , Hezbollah , and the Houthis , as well as the ouster of President Bashar al-Assad from Syria . <h> Comments <p> Comments have to be in English , and in full sentences . They can not be abusive or personal . Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments . <p> We have migrated to a new commenting platform . If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in , you may continue to engage with our articles . If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments . Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle. 
@@119478308 <h> Share this : <p> The official X account for Ford Motor Co. called Israel a " terrorist state " in an apparent hacking incident . <p> The X posts , which have since been deleted , were all made Monday afternoon . Three separate posts read " Israel is a terrorist state , " " ALL EYES ON GAZA " and " Free Palestine , " according to a screenshot shared by Rep. Ritchie Torres , D-N.Y . <p> " Ford Motor Co. must have been hacked by the Free Palestine movement , " Torres captioned the screenshot . <p> In a statement shared via X Monday evening , Ford said its account was " briefly compromised " and the three posts were not " authorized or posted " by the company . <p> " They do not represent the views of Ford Motor Co. , " the statement read . " Ford and X are investigating this breach . " <p> Some X users expressed frustration with Ford 's response . Rabbi Samuel Stern , who co-chairs the Kansas State Holocaust Commemoration , told the company in a reply its statement was " not an apology . " <p> " I wonder if the unauthorized posts targeted anyone else if you would have apologized ? " he asked . <p> Ford 's headquarters is located in Dearborn , Michigan . In 2023 , more than half of Dearborn 's population was Arab-American , making it the largest U.S. city with an Arab-American majority , according to the University of Michigan . <p> President-elect Donald Trump in November became the first Republican presidential candidate since former President George W. Bush in 2000 to win Dearborn , according to The Associated Press . Trump bested Vice President Kamala Harris in the city by more than 2,500 votes , with the outcome following the vice president receiving criticism for vowing not to change the White House 's current approach to aiding Israel if elected . <p> A group called Muslim Women for Harris-Walz also temporarily pulled its support for the vice president in August , citing a lack of Palestinian-American speakers at the Democratic National Convention . The group later reversed its decision . 
@@119483407 <h> US strikes several Houthis targets in Yemen <h> CENTCOM said it struck a Houthi command center as well as storage facilities for missiles and UAVs . <p> Smoke rises from the site of strikes in Sanaa , Yemen October 4 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/KHALED ABDULLAH ) <p> The US struck several targets in Sana'a and on Yemen 's coast in Houthi-controlled territory Monday and Tuesday , US Central Command ( CENTCOM ) said in a press release on Tuesday . <p> " On December 30 and 31 , US Navy ships and aircraft targeted a Houthi command and control facility and advanced conventional weapon ( ACW ) production and storage facilities that included missiles and uncrewed aerial vehicles ( UAV ) , " the statement said . <p> CENTCOM asserted that the facilities were used in Houthi operations " such as attacks against US Navy warships and merchant vessels in the southern Red Sea and Gulf of Aden . " <p> The organization also reported that the US Navy and Air Force destroyed a Houthi coastal radar site , in addition to seven cruise missiles and one-way attack UAVs over the Red Sea . <h> Earlier reports and Houthi statements <p> CENTCOM 's announcement came after explosions in Sana'a were reported by Israeli media , citing reports from Yemen . <p> This confirms earlier reporting from The Jerusalem Post that the explosions were not due to an Israeli strike . <p> Yemen 's Houthi spokesperson Mohammed Abdul Salam said that the country would continue to defend itself after several US strikes targeted facilities in the capital Sana'a on Tuesday . <p> The US military 's strikes come after nightly attacks from the Houthis . On Tuesday , the terror group claimed responsibility for a missile that alerted sirens in central Israel . The IDF intercepted it outside of Israeli territory , and reported that sirens were triggered to protect civilians from interception fallout . <p> The Houthis have been attacking commercial shipping in the Red Sea for more than a year to try to enforce a naval blockade on Israel , claiming that they are acting in solidarity with Palestinians in Gaza during the Israel-Hamas war . 
@@119483414 <p> Hamas is reportedly refusing to release 12 of the 34 hostages in the first phase of an alleged deal in the works , instead offering the bodies of 12 killed abductees , a Palestinian source told Israeli state news agency KAN on Monday . <p> The source claimed Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu refused the release of bodies in the first stage of the deal . <p> While Hamas has refused to release all the requested 34 living hostages , the terror group has reportedly upped the number of security prisoners it demands released . <p> Sources previously revealed to TheJerusalem Post that one of the reasons for a delay in a hostage deal was because Hamas had failed to provide a list of living hostages . Israelis protest against the government and to show support for the hostages who were kidnapped during the deadly October 7 2023 attack , amid the ongoing conflict in Gaza between Israel and Hamas , in Tel Aviv , Israel December 14 , 2024. ( credit : STOYAN NENOV/REUTERS ) <h> Who will be released ? <p> While the names of the 22 hostages Hamas has promised to release have not been made public , the deputy head of Hamas 's political bureau , Mousa Abu Marzouk , has previously promised Russia that two Russian citizens would be among the first released . <p> The two Russian hostages , Alexandre Troufanov and Maxin Herkin , are both being held in Gaza , although Troufanov is by Palestinian Islamic Jihad. 
@@119483418 <h> The recordings came as part of a Shin Bet yearly report on counter-terrorism operations over 2024 . <p> The Shin Bet released new footage on Tuesday of the separate rescues of Ori Megidish in October 2023 and Fernando Marman and Luis Har in February 2024 as part of a new report and data on the year after October 7 . <p> In one recording , captured shortly after the rescue of Ori Megidish by the IDF and Shin Bet from Gaza on October 30 . Megidish was kidnapped on October 7 from the Nahal Oz outpost by Hamas terrorists , where she served as an observer . <p> The Shin Bet has comprehensively interrogated over 650 Gazans this year while performing some preliminary evaluation of around 2,500 of them , the Israel Security Agency said Tuesday in its 2024 annual report . <p> This is the first time that the Shin Bet has quantified the full picture of how many Gazan detainees it has seen as valuable enough to carry out a full interrogation . <p> Out of the over 2,500 Gazans brought to the Shin Bet for evaluation , around 1,350 were arrested in operations in which the Shin Bet directly participated . <h> IDF , Shin Bet eliminate PIJ northern sector rocket unit commander <p> The IDF and Shin Bet ( Israel Security Agency ) have killed Anas Muhammad Saadi Masri , the commander of the northern sector of the rocket unit of the Palestinian Islamic Jihad , the IDF confirmed on Tuesday . <p> " An Air Force aircraft , guided by intelligence from the Military Intelligence Directorate ( Aman ) , the Shin Bet , and the Southern Command , struck and killed Masri earlier this month , " the statement said . <p> Masri was described as " a significant figure responsible for executing numerous terror operations , managing and directing actions by the organization that targeted Israeli civilians and IDF soldiers . " <p> The statement added that since October 7 , Masri had been actively commanding rocket fire from northern Gaza into Israeli border communities . He also oversaw several operatives involved in launching rockets into Israeli territory . <p> " Prior to the strike , extensive measures were taken to minimize civilian casualties , including the use of precision weaponry , accurate intelligence , and aerial surveillance , " the IDF emphasized . <p> " We will continue to strike anyone who promotes or engages in terrorism against Israeli citizens and will work to achieve the objectives of the war , " the IDF concluded . <h> Houthis claim to ' hit ' Jerusalem power station , Ben-Gurion Airport <p> The Iran-backed Houthi terror group in Yemen claimed on Tuesday morning that they " successfully hit " Ben Gurion airport in Tel Aviv and a power station in Jerusalem - despite the IAF intercepting the Houthi attack . <p> The terror group also claimed to have thwarted a US attack with an aerial launch . <p> The Houthis made their claims after the IDF announced the IAF had intercepted a Houthi missile before it reached Israeli territory late on Monday night . Sirens were sounded so civilians could seek shelter from potential shrapnel resulting from the interception . <h> John Spencer , an international expert on urban warfare , reveals Hamas 's military exploitation of Gaza 's healthcare system and the IDF 's innovative response . <p> Hamas has transformed Gaza 's healthcare system into a military apparatus , John Spencer , a leading international expert on urban warfare , revealed in an exclusive interview with Maariv on Monday . <p> Spencer also explained why IDF operations in hospitals are legal and praised the unique tactics employed by the IDF to identify terrorists posing as patients . <p> " My research showed that from the first day of the Israel-Hamas War , Hamas left no hospital untouched for terrorist purposes , and this has only proliferated since , " said Spencer , head of the Urban Warfare Department at the Modern War Institute ( MWI ) at West Point . Spencer served for 25 years as an infantry soldier , including two deployments in Iraq . <h> Israel at war : What happened on day 451 ? <p> By YONAH JEREMY BOB IDF soldiers in northern Gaza Strip conducting operation in the area of the Indonesian Hospital , where a Hamas launch site was located . ( photo credit : IDF SPOKESMAN 'S UNIT ) <p> The IDF said on Monday it killed dozens of Hamas members in Jabalya -- just one day after it said the terror group was nearly cleared out of northern Gaza . <p> It also announced that Sgt. Uriel Peretz , 23 , from Betar Illit , was killed in fighting in Beit Hanun , adding that in the attack , three soldiers from the 97th Battalion in the Kfir Brigade were critically wounded . <p> According to the military , locating and killing the terrorists was made possible by a mix of ongoing intelligence collection , operations to trick the men into an ambush , and both tank fire and gunfire . <p> The IDF invaded Jabalya in October 2023 , again this past May , and then again in October . <p> By December 2023 , the IDF declared Jabalya under operational control and that Hamas 's battalions were broken down . 
@@119483419 <h> Houthis , Hezbollah threaten Israel with ongoing war - analysis <p> Footage released by Houthi Military Media says to show a launch of missile , which the Houthis say they fired at Israel , at an unknown location in this screen grab obtained from a handout video released on December 19 , 2024. ( photo credit : HOUTHI MILITARY MEDIA/via REUTERS ) <p> Despite a ceasefire in Lebanon and Israeli and US-led Coalition strikes on the Houthis in Yemen , both groups appear undeterred from further attacks . <p> The situations are different . The Houthis are far away from Israel and use ballistic missiles and drones to threaten Israel . Hezbollah suffered a drubbing in a two month war from September 23 to November 27 , but they are saying that at the end of the 60-day ceasefire that began in late November , they could return to fighting . <p> This illustrates how Israel continues to suffer threats from multiple fronts . On the positive side , it appears the Iraqi militias which are backed by Iran have toned down their threats for now . The Syrian regime has fallen and that means that Iran has trouble basing its forces in Syria . However , Hamas continues to fire rockets at Israel and the West Bank could boil over with threats . <h> What are the Houthis and Hezbollah saying ? <p> ' Day 61 will be different ' : Hezbollah warns Israel of truce collapse , is one headline in Iranian media . " The deputy chief of Hezbollah 's Political Council Mahmoud Komati has underscored the readiness of the Lebanese resistance movement to respond to the Israeli violations of a 60-day ceasefire , warning that day 61 will be different if the Zionist regime does not withdraw its forces from southern Lebanon , " Iran 's IRNA reports . <p> This is important . He was speaking to Al-Manar TV , a Hezbollah channel . Mahmoud Komati said " Hezbollah is committed to the ceasefire during the first 60 days mentioned in the text of the truce deal . " IDF troops operate in southern Lebanon , December 27 , 2024. ( credit : IDF SPOKESPERSON 'S UNIT ) <p> He says that Hezbollah will respond to any Israeli " violations " of the ceasefire . " He also said that Hezbollah will not allow any local or foreign party to tamper with the red lines of the Resistance weaponry and the reconstruction program . " Hezbollah claims it still has a large stockpile of rockets . Israel has assessed that the group lost many of its rockets and thousands of fighters . <h> Houthis suffered setbacks from recent airstrikes <p> Meanwhile , in Yemen , the Houthis suffered setbacks from some airstrikes recently . Israel carried out a four rounds of strikes over the past year . The US Central Command ( CENTCOM ) forces " conducted multiple precision strikes against Iran-backed Houthi targets in Sanaa and coastal locations within Houthi-controlled territory in Yemen , Dec. 30 and 31 , " the US said . " On Dec. 30 and 31 , US Navy ships and aircraft targeted a Houthi command and control facility and advanced conventional weapon ( ACW ) production and storage facilities that included missiles and uncrewed aerial vehicles ( UAV ) . These facilities were used in Houthi operations , such as attacks against US Navy warships and merchant vessels in the southern Red Sea and Gulf of Aden . In addition , US Navy and US Air Force aircraft destroyed a Houthi coastal radar site and seven cruise missiles and one-way attack UAVs over the Red Sea . " <p> However the Houthis vowed that they would continue to " rain down " missiles on Israel . " A senior member of the political bureau of Yemen 's Ansarullah movement has said that the country 's army will keep pressing ahead with its operations against the Zionist regime in support of the Palestinians in the Gaza Strip , " IRNA noted . The Houthis also " called on the UN Security Council to condemn American terrorism as well as the terror and crimes committed by the Zionist regime . " 
