@@118326626 <p> The arrest warrants by the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) against Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant are a diplomatic disaster for Israel , reported The Economist , a ' hard stigma ' for the Israeli leader , wrote The Guardian , and a ' major blow ' , said others . <p> But a term that many seem to agree on is that the warrants represent an earthquake , though many are doubtful that Netanyahu would actually see his day in court . <p> The pro-Palestine camp , which as of late represents the majority of humankind , is torn between disbelief , skepticism , and optimism . It turned out that the international system has a pulse , after all , though faint , but is enough to rekindle hope that legal and moral accountability are still possible . <p> This mixture of feelings and strong language is a reflection of several important and interconnected experiences : one , the unprecedented extermination of a whole population which is currently being carried out by Israel against Palestinians in Gaza ; two , the utter failure of the international community to stop the grisly genocide in the Strip ; and , finally , the fact that the international legal system has historically failed to hold Israel , or any of the West 's allies anywhere , accountable to international law . <p> Advertisement - scroll to continue reading <p> The real earthquake is the fact that this is the first time in the history of the ICC that a pro-western leader is held accountable for war crimes . Indeed , historically , the vast majority of arrest warrants , and actual detention of accused war criminals seemed to target the Global South , and Africa , in particular . <p> Israel , however , is not an ordinary ' western ' state . Zionism was a western-colonial invention , and the creation of Israel was only possible because of unhindered , die-hard western support . <p> Since its inception on the ruins of historic Palestine in 1948 , Israel has served the role of the western-colonial citadel in the Middle East . The entire Israeli political discourse has been tailored and situated within western priorities and supposed values : civilization , democracy , enlightenment , human rights and the like . <p> With time , Israel became largely an American project , embraced by American liberals and religious conservatives alike . <p> America 's religious crowds were motivated by the biblical notion that " whoever blesses Israel will be blessed , And whoever curses Israel will be cursed " . The liberals , too , held Israel within a spiritual discourse , although disproportionately favored the classification of Israel as the ' only democracy in the Middle East ' , constantly emphasizing the ' special relationship ' , the ' unbreakable bond ' and the rest . <p> Thus , it would not be an exaggeration to claim that the ICC 's indictment of Netanyahu , as a representative of the political establishment in Israel , and Gallant , as the leader of the military class , is also an indictment of the United States . <p> It is often reported that Israel would not have been able to carry on with its war , thus genocide , on Gaza without American military and political support . According to the investigative news website ProPublica , in the first year of the war , the US shipped over 50,000 tons of weaponry to Israel . <p> Mainstream American media and journalists are also culpable in that genocide . They elevated the now war criminals Netanyahu and Gallant , along with other Israeli political and military leaders , as if they were the defenders of a ' civilized world ' against the ' barbarians ' . Those in the conservative media circles portrayed them as if prophets doing God 's work against the supposed heathens of the South . <p> They , too , have been indicted by the ICC , the kind of moral indictment , and ' hard stigma ' , that can never be eradicated . <p> When Karim Khan , the ICC 's Chief Prosecutor , originally filed for arrest warrants in May , many were in doubt , and justifiably so . The Israelis felt that their country commanded the needed support to disallow such warrants in the first place . They cited previous attempts , including a Belgian court case where victims of Israeli brutality in Lebanon attempted to hold former Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon accountable for the Sabra and Shatila massacre . Not only was the case dropped in 2003 , but Belgium was pressured by the US to change its own laws so that they do not include universal jurisdiction in the case of genocide . <p> The Americans , too , were not terribly worried , as they were ready to punish ICC judges , defame Khan himself , and , according to a recent social media post by US Senator Tom Cotton , ready to ' invade the Hague ' . <p> In fact , this is not the first time that Americans , who are not signatories of the Rome Statute , thus not members of the ICC , flexed their muscles against those who merely attempted to enforce international law . In September 2020 , the US government imposed sanctions on then-Chief Prosecutor Fatou Bensouda and another senior official , Phakiso Mochochoko . <p> Even those who wanted to see accountability for the Israeli genocide were in doubt , especially as pro-Israeli western governments , like that of Germany , stepped forward to prevent the warrants from being issued . Unreasonable delays in the proceedings contributed to the skepticism , especially as Khan himself was suddenly being paraded for supposed ' sexual misconduct ' . <p> Yet , after all of this , on November 21 the arrest warrants were issued , charging Netanyahu and Gallant with alleged ' war crimes ' and ' crimes against humanity ' - the other punishable offenses within the ICC jurisdiction being genocide and aggression . <p> Considering that the world 's highest court , the International Court of Justice , has already found that it is plausible that Israel 's acts could amount to genocide and is currently investigating the case , Israel , as a state , and top Israeli leaders have suddenly , and deservingly so , become the enemies of humanity . <p> While it is right and legitimate to argue that what matters most is the tangible outcome of these cases - ending the genocide while holding the Israeli war criminals accountable - we must not miss the greater meaning of these earth-shattering events . <p> The ICJ and the ICC are essentially two western institutions created to police the world by reinforcing the double standards resulting from the post-World War II western-dominated international system . <p> They are the legal equivalent of the Bretton Woods agreement , which regulated the international monetary system to serve US western interests . Though , in theory , they championed universally commendable values , in practice they merely served as tools of control and dominance for the western order . <p> For years , the world has been in a state of obvious and irreversible change . New powers were rising and others were shrinking . Political turmoil in the US , Britain and France were only reflections of the internal struggle in the west 's ruling classes . The incredible rise of China , the war in Europe and the growing resistance in the Middle East were outcomes and accelerators of that change . <p> Thus the constant call for reforms in the post-WWII international system to reflect in a more equitable way the new global realities . Despite American-western resistance to change , new geopolitical formations continued to take place , regardless . <p> The Gaza genocide represents a watershed moment in these global dynamics . This was reflected in Karim Khan 's language when he requested the arrest warrants , stressing on the credibility of the court . " This is why we have a court , " he said in an exclusive interview with CNN on May 20 . " It 's about the equal application of the law . No people are better than another . No people anywhere are saints . " <p> The emphasis on credibility here is a culmination of the obvious loss of credibility on all fronts . This should hardly be a surprise as it was the west , the self-proclaimed champion of human rights , the very political entity that championed , defended and sustained the Israeli genocide . <p> While one would like to believe that the ICC 's arrest warrants were made exclusively for the sake of the victims of the Israeli genocide , plenty of evidence suggests that the unexpected move was a desperate western attempt at salvaging whatever little credibility it had maintained up to that moment . <p> The US government , an unrepentant violator of human rights , has maintained its strong position in defense of Israel , shaming the ICC for the warrants , not the Israeli war criminals for committing the genocide . <p> The conflict in Europe has been much more palpable , however , reflected in the position of Germany , which said it would " carefully examine " the arrest warrants but that it is " hard to imagine that we would make arrests on this basis " . <p> One remains hopeful that the shifts of global powers will eventually save international law from the hypocrisy and opportunism of the west . But what is clear for now is that the west 's own conflict will only gain momentum . Will those who created the Zionist Israeli menace be the very powers that demolish it ? One is doubtful . <p> - Dr. Ramzy Baroud is a journalist , author and the Editor of The Palestine Chronicle . He is the author of six books . His latest book , co-edited with Ilan Papp ? , is ' Our Vision for Liberation : Engaged Palestinian Leaders and Intellectuals Speak Out ' . His other books include ' My Father was a Freedom Fighter ' and ' The Last Earth ' . Baroud is a Non-resident Senior Research Fellow at the Center for Islam and Global Affairs ( CIGA ) . His website is www.ramzybaroud.net <h> Are you licensed for Scoop ? <p> Scoop is free for personal use , but you 'll need a licence for work use . This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall . Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month , and start using Scoop like a Pro . 
@@118326724 <p> US national security adviser Jake Sullivan lauded the Israel-Hezbollah ceasefire and stressed the need for its effective implementation . <p> Sullivan described the humanitarian situation in Gaza as a ' crisis ' , with many suffering from severe shortages . <p> The White House is working on a ceasefire and hostage release deal in Gaza but is " not there yet " , the United States national security adviser told NBC today , with fighting in the conflict raging on as regional leaders meet to discuss the crisis . <p> " We are working actively to try to make it happen . We are engaged deeply with the key players in the region , and there is activity even today , " said Jake Sullivan , according to a transcript released by the broadcaster . <p> " There will be further conversations and consultations , and our hope is that we can generate a ceasefire and hostage deal , but we 're not there yet , " he added . <p> " There are signs we may see a greater degree of flexibility from Hamas as a result of circumstances that have developed , including the agreement with Lebanon , " he said . <p> " There is a desire to move forward on this . I hope it can progress . We are committed to the return of the hostages -- it 's a responsibility we must uphold . " <p> Saar asserted , however , that Hamas " can not be allowed " to continue to rule Gaza . <p> Speaking to CBS , Sullivan said US President Joe Biden was in close co-ordination with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's Government . <p> " He also spoke with Prime Minister Netanyahu that day of the Israel-Hezbollah ceasefire , and Prime Minister Netanyahu told him he agreed , the time is right . The moment is now , " said Sullivan , referring to the need for a ceasefire between Israel and Hamas . <p> Hamas seized 251 hostages during its October 7 , 2023 , attack on Israel , with 97 still being held in Gaza , including 34 who have been confirmed to be dead . <p> The armed group 's attack resulted in 1207 deaths , mostly civilians , according to an AFP tally of Israeli official figures . <p> In response , Israel launched a withering military campaign on Gaza , killing at least 44,429 people there , most of them civilians , according to figures from the Hamas-run territory 's Health Ministry that the United Nations considers reliable . <p> Much of Gaza has been reduced to rubble , with its population dependent on humanitarian aid . But the UN said it would pause delivery of aid through the key Kerem Shalom crossing because of security concerns . <p> Sullivan said the humanitarian situation in Gaza was a " crisis " and that famine was " constantly stalking " the territory . <p> " You have too many people who are suffering from shortages of food , water , medicine , access to sanitation . Innocent people who deserve a measure of peace and deserve access to all of those life-saving supplies in abundance , " he said . 
@@118326994 <p> Attacks:There are no safe places for the militarily-dominated population in Gaza , who find themselves subjected to airstrikes and other missile attackson buildings , homes and many essentialfacilities , as well as constant gunfire and invasions by Israeli forces.The Israeli Navy continues to fire missiles , targeting facilities and buildings along the entire Gaza shoreline . <p> Victims:19more people have been killedwithin the past 48 hours , bringing the total number killed in Gaza since 7 Octoberto at least44,382 . Another 72have been wounded , bringing that total to 105,142 . The daily average number of men , women and children killed in Gaza is at least 105 ; thatof those injured is nowmore than250 . <p> The United Nations Agency for Palestinian Refugees ( UNRWA ) said in a statement that , since October 2023 , Gaza has been witnessing the most intense bombing targeting civilians since World War II . Meanwhile , Israeli forces continued to carry out massacres in the Strip , especially in central Gaza , killing and wounding scores of Palestinians . According to the Palestinian Health Ministry ( Gaza ) , 44,330 Palestinians have been killed , and 104,933 wounded in Israel 's ongoing genocide in Gaza starting on 7 October 2023 . <p> The Gaza Civil Defence , on Friday , said as many as 100 Palestinians were killed in Israeli attacks and massacres in northern Gaza in the past 24 hours , Anadolu Agency reports . In a statement , Civil Defence spokesman , Mahmoud Basal , said 75 of the victims were killed in Israeli air strikes on two homes in Beit Lahia , while the others were targeted in Jabalia and other areas of northern Gaza . " The number of martyrs since the start of the Israeli military operation in northern Gaza ( on 5 October ) has reached 2,700 Palestinians , and 10,000 others are injured , " Basal told Anadolu . <p> Overall , the Israeli onslaught that began after the 7 October 2023 , Hamas attacks have killed more than 44,000 people in Gaza , and the enclave is now uninhabitable . Last week , the International Criminal Court issued arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister , Benjamin Netanyahu , and his former Defence Minister , Yoav Gallant , for war crimes and crimes against humanity in Gaza . <p> Palestinians in the north of the Gaza Strip have been living under relentless Israeli bombardment for days , and say their situation is ' indescribable ' . Palestinians on Thursday described a " real life horror movie " in the Gaza Strip 's north as ferocious Israeli air strikes continued across the devastated territory , a day after a ceasefire began in neighbouring Lebanon . Israel on 6 October began an intensive siege and air and ground attacks in Jabalia , and then expanded it to Beit Lahia . <p> It is believed to be implementing a " General 's Plan " designed to kill , starve and expel the remaining inhabitants of north Gaza " We are living in a real life horror movie , the situation is indescribable , the Israeli bombing does n't stop from the air or on the ground , " said Umm Ahmad Lubbad ( aged 52 ) , from Beit Lahia . Abu Muhammad Al-Madhoun , displaced from Jabalia refugee camp to the central Gaza Strip , said the situation was " catastrophic " . " It is getting worse every day , " he said , adding : " The bombing does not stop . " The Gaza Health Ministry said at least 37 people were killed on Thursday across the territory by Israeli air strikes . Hossam Abu Safiyeh , Director of the Kamal Adwan Hospital in the north , described the situation there as " tragic and very difficult " . <p> Union president denounces Israel 's war on Gaza as a ' holocaust ' at a fiery event where pro-Israel speaker was ejected for harassing Palestinian student . The prestigious Oxford Union voted by an overwhelming majority that Israel is an " apartheid state responsible for genocide " ' . The society 's president denounced Israel 's war on Gaza as a " holocaust " . <p> The exclusive debating society , founded in 1823 , held an unprecedented debate on Thursday night on the motion : " This house believes Israel is an apartheid state responsible for genocide " . The motion was carried with a thumping majority of 278 to 59 . At one point , the debate became so fiery that Opposition speaker , Yoseph Haddad , an ardent supporter of Israel , was told to leave the chamber . Haddad , who produced several props and posters during his speech , wore a T-shirt displaying a photo of killed Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrullah and the caption : " Your terrorist hero is dead ! We did that . " <p> Israeli Army attack -- 1 killed:Salfit -- 12:25 , Israeli troops opened fire on and killed a man , Samer Muhammad Salih Hussein , claiming that he had fired at a settler bus . <p> Israeli Army attack : Hebron -- 16:00 , the Israelimilitary opened fire on a motor vehicle , near the village of Qalqas , claiming that itbeen involved in the shootingtowards a settler bus . <p> Home invasions and population -- control : Bethlehem -- 20:20 , Israeli Occupation forces , firing stun grenades , invaded and closed the entrances to Nahalin as well as the village of Husan , invading homes in Nahalin and declaring both areas to be closed military zones . <p> Israeli Army population -- control:Ramallah -- 11:30 , Israeli forces took prisoner a man , Yahya Yousef Muhammad Hamed , when he reported , as ordered , for interrogation at Israeli Military Intelligence . <p> Israeli Army population -- control:Qalqiliya -- 12:50-15:00 , the Israeli Army closed the main road between the towns of Jayus and Azzun . <p> Israeli Army population -- control:Qalqiliya -- 14:00-15:00 , the occupation forces closed the road between the town of Jayus and the village of Nabi Elias . <p> Israeli Army population -- control:Qalqiliya -- 19:15 , Israeli troops blocked the road between Jayus and the village of Nabi Elias . <p> Israeli Army population -- control:Salfit -- 12:40 -- 14:00 , the Israelimilitary closed the northern entrance to the city . <p> Israeli Army population -- control : Hebron -- 16:10 , Israeli soldiers closedto trafficthe entrances to the al-Fahs area ( south of the city ) , the Zif village road junctionand entrances to the towns of Dura and al-Samou , as well as the village of Karma and the al-Fawar refugee camp . <p> Leslie Bravery is a Londoner with vivid World War Two memories of the Nazi blitz on his home town . In 1947/1948 His father explained to him what was happening to the Palestinians thus : " Any ideology or political movement that creates refugees in the process of realising its ambitions must be inhuman and should be opposed and condemned as unacceptable . " What followed confirmed this assessment of the Zionist entity a hundredfold . Now a retired flamenco guitarist , with a lifelong interest in the tragedy of what happened to the Palestinian people , he tries to publicise their plight . Because the daily injustices they suffer barely get a mention in the mainstream news media , Leslie edits/compiles a daily newsletter , In Occupied Palestine , for the Palestine Human Rights Campaign . These days , to preserve his sanity , he enjoys taking part in a drama group whenever possible ! 
@@118362780 <h> Trump promises ' hell to pay ' if Gaza hostages not released <p> Israelis show support for hostages who were kidnapped last year amid the ongoing conflict in Gaza between Israel and Hamas . Photo : Reuters <p> United States President-elect Donald Trump says there will be " hell to pay " in the Middle East if hostages held in the Gaza Strip were not released before his inauguration on January 20 . <p> During their deadly 2023 attack on Israel , Hamas-led militants captured more than 250 people , according to Israeli tallies , including dual Israeli-American nationals . <p> About half of the 101 foreign and Israeli hostages still held incommunicado in Gaza are believed to be alive . <p> Making his most explicit comments on the fate of the hostages since his election in November , Trump on Monday said on social media : <p> " If the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity . " <p> Trump added : " Those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America . " <p> Hamas has called for an end to the war and total Israeli withdrawal from Gaza as part of any deal to release remaining hostages . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has said the war will go on until Hamas is eradicated and poses no more threat to Israel . <p> On Monday , Hamas said that 33 hostages in Gaza had been killed during the almost 14-month-old war between the Palestinian militant group and Israel in the enclave , without giving their nationalities . <p> Israel launched its war after Hamas-led fighters attacked Israeli communities on October 7 last year killing 1200 people , according to Israeli tallies . <p> Israel 's military offensive has killed more than 44,400 Palestinians and displaced most of Gaza 's population , Gaza officials say . 
@@118371290 <h> ' Lone Soldiers ' -- new Australian IDF recruits due to arrive in Israel in January <p> Despite it being illegal in Australia to recruit soldiers for foreign armies , the Israeli Defence Forces ( IDF ) recruiters are hard at work enticing young Australians to join Israel 's army . Michael West Media investigates . <p> INVESTIGATION:By Yaakov Aharon <p> The Israeli war machine is in hyperdrive , and it needs new bodies to throw into the fire . In July , The Department of Home Affairs stated that there were only four Australians who had booked flights to Israel and whom it suspected of intending to join the Israel Defence Forces ( IDF ) . <p> The Australian Border Force intervened with three of the four but clarified that they did not " necessarily prevent them from leaving " . <p> MWM understands a batch of Australian recruits is due to arrive in Israel in January , and this is not the first batch of recruits to receive assistance as IDF soldiers through this Australian programme . <p> Many countries encourage certain categories of immigrants and discourage others . However , Israel does n't just want Palestinians out and Jews in -- they want Jews of fighting age , who will be conscripted shortly after arrival . <p> The IDF 's " Lone Soldiers " are soldiers who do not have parents living in Israel . Usually , this means 18-year-old immigrants with basic Hebrew who may never have spent longer than a school camp away from home . <p> There are a range of Israeli government programmes , charities , and community centres that support the Lone Soldiers ' integration into society prior to basic training . <p> The most robust of these programs is Garin Tzabar , where there are only 90 days between hugging mum and dad goodbye at Sydney Airport and the drill sergeant belting orders in a foreign language . <p> The Garin Tzabar website . Image : MWM <p> Garin Tzabar In 2004 , Prime Minister Ariel Sharon asked Minister for Aliyah Immigration and Integration , Tzipi Livni , to significantly increase the number of people in the Garin Tzabar programme . <p> The IDF website states that Garin Tzabar " is a unique project , a collaborative venture of the Meitav Unit in the IDF , the Scout movement , the security-social wing of the Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of Immigration and Absorption , which began in 1991 " . ( Translated from Hebrew via Google Translate . ) <p> The Meitav Unit is divided into many different branches , most of which are responsible for overseeing new recruits . <p> Powerful and unique journalism by @yaakovaharon on a story that receives shamefully little coverage in Australia ; the recruitment of Australians to serve in the Israeli military : https : //t.co/OdNVzzMEbx <p> However , the pride of the Meitav Unit is the branch dedicated to recruiting all the unique population groups that are not subject to the draft ( eg. Ultra-Orthodox Jews ) . This branch is then divided into three further Departments . <p> In a 2020 interview , the Head of Meitav 's Tzabar Department , Lieutenant Noam Delgo , referred to herself as someone who " recruits olim chadishim ( new immigrants ) . " She stated : <p> " Our main job in the army is to help Garin Tzabar members to recruit . . . The best thing about Garin Tzabar is the mashakyot ( commanders ) . Every time you wake up in the morning you have two amazing soldiers -- really intelligent -- with pretty high skills , just managing your whole life , teaching you Hebrew , helping you with all the bureaucratic systems in Israel , getting profiles , seeing doctors and getting those documents , and finishing the whole process . " <p> The contact point for Australian recruits is Shoval Magal , the executive director of Garin Tzabar Australia . The registered address is a building shared by the NSW Jewish Board of Deputies and the Zionist Council of NSW , the community 's peak bodies in the state . <p> " Until three months ago , Tali REDACTED , from Sydney , Australia , and Moises REDACTED , from Mexico City , were ordinary teenagers . But on December 25 , they arrived at their new family here in Israel -- the " Garin Tzabar " family , and in a moment , they will become soldiers . In a special project , we accompanied them from the day of admission ( to the program ) until just before the recruitment . " ( Translated from Hebrew via Google Translate ) . <p> Michael Manhaim was the executive director of Garin Tzabar Australia from 2018 to 2023 . He wrote an article , " Becoming a Lone Soldier " , ' for the 2021 annual newsletter of Betar Australia , a Zionist youth group for children . In the article , Manhaim writes : <p> " The programme starts with the unique preparation process in Australia . <p> . . . It only takes one step ; you just need to choose which foot will lead the way . We will be there for the rest . " <p> A criminal activityMWM is not alleging that any of the parties mentioned in this article have broken the law . It is not a crime if a person chooses to join a foreign army . <p> A person commits an offence if the person recruits , in Australia , another person to serve in any capacity in or with an armed force in a foreign country . <p> It is a further offence to facilitate or promote recruitment for a foreign army and to publish recruitment materials . This includes advertising information relating to how a person may serve in a foreign army . <p> The maximum penalty for each offence is 10 years . <p> Rawan Arraf , executive director of the Australian Centre for International Justice , said : <p> " Unless there has been a specific declaration stating it is not an offence to recruit for the Israel Defence Force , recruitment to a foreign armed force is a criminal offence under Australian law , and the Australian Federal Police should be investigating anyone allegedly involved in recruitment for a foreign armed force . " <p> Army needing ' new flesh'If the IDF are to keep the war on Gaza going , they need to fill old suits of body armour with new grunts . <p> Reports indicate the death toll within IDF 's ranks is unprecedented -- a suicide epidemic is claiming further lives on the home front , and reservists are refusing in droves to return to active duty . <p> In October , Israeli opposition leader Yair Lapid accused Bibi Netanyahu of obscuring the facts of Israel 's casualty rate . Any national security story published in Israel must first be approved by the intelligence unit at the Military Censor . <p> " 11,000 soldiers were injured and 890 others killed , " Lapid said , without warning and live on air . There are limits to how much we accept the alternative facts " . <p> In November 2023 , Shoval Magal shared a photo in which she is posing alongside six young Australians , saying , " The participants are eager to have Aliya ( immigrate ) to Israel , start the programme and join the army " . <p> These six recruits are the attendees of just one of several seminars that Magal has organised in Melbourne for the summer 2023 cycle , having also organised separate events across cities in Australia . <p> Magal 's June 2024 newsletter said she was " in the advanced stages of the preparation phase in Australia for the August 2024 Garin " . Most recently , in October 2024 , she was " getting ready for Garin Tzabar 's 2024 December cycle . " <p> There are five " Aliyah ( Immigration ) Events " in Sydney , Melbourne and Perth . The sponsoring organisations are Garin Tzabar , the Israeli Ministry for Aliyah ( Immigration ) and Integration , and a who 's who of the Jewish-Australian community . <p> The star speaker at each event is Alon Katz , an Australian who joined Garin Tzabar in 2018 and is today a reserve IDF soldier . The second speaker , Colonel Golan Vach , was the subject of two Electronic Intifadainvestigations alleging that he had invented the 40 burned babies lie on October 7 to create a motive for Israel 's onslaught in Gaza . <p> If any Australian signed the papers to become an IDF recruit at these events , is someone liable for the offence of recruiting them to a foreign army ? <p> MWM reached out for comment to Garin Tzabar Australia and the Zionist Federation of Australia to clarify whether the IDF is recruiting in Australia but did not receive a reply . 
@@118406595 <p> The ongoing escalation of violence in northwest Syria linked to the wider conflict in Gaza and Lebanon has left civilians dead and injured , hospitals " overwhelmed " with healthcare attacks on the rise , the UN warned on Tuesday . <p> Renewed fighting last week led by the terrorist group Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) and other armed factions has engulfed parts of Aleppo , Idlib and Hama , destabilising frontlines that had remained unchanged since 2020 . <p> UN human rights office ( OHCHR ) spokesperson Jeremy Laurence told reporters in Geneva of " a number of extremely concerning incidents resulting in multiple civilian casualties , including a high number of women and children , stemming from attacks by both HTS and by pro-Government forces " . <p> " The hostilities are resulting in destruction and damage to civilian objects , including health facilities , buildings hosting institutions dedicated to education , and food markets , " he added . <p> University dorms hit <p> OHCHR has already begun the process of verifying deadly attacks impacting civilians including the deaths of four civilian men on 29 November , " reportedly as a result of multiple ground-based strikes by HTS " hitting an area hosting Aleppo university 's student dorms , the OHCHR spokesperson said . <p> " According to information gathered by our Office , all victims were students of the university and , following that , many other students fled the university complex , " he added . <p> Advertisement - scroll to continue reading <p> Aid access remains ' fluid ' <p> Jens Laerke , spokesperson for the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs ( OCHA ) , stressed that the situation in the area is " fluid and constantly changing " . While OCHA runs " very solid " coordination mechanisms within Syria and across the border with the humanitarian hub in Gaziantep , T ? rkiye , it has been forced to put its operation on hold " because of the insecurity , " as active fighting is ongoing and many roads are closed . <p> However , " it 's not the entire area that is locked down , " he said . " There are still places where we can respond , for example , in the reception centres in Idlib " for people uprooted by the violence . <p> According to OCHA , some 16.7 million Syrians were already in need of humanitarian assistance at the start of 2024 . <p> Airstrike victims <p> OHCHR spokesperson Mr. Laurence also highlighted an incident on 1 December in which 22 civilians were killed , including three women and seven children , and at least 40 others were injured , " reportedly as a result of multiple airstrikes by pro-Government forces in Idlib " which hit a local market and five residential areas in the city . <p> " We remind all parties of their obligations and responsibilities under international human rights law and humanitarian law : civilians and civilian infrastructure must be protected , " he stressed . <p> Echoing this call , the UN Commission of Inquiry on Syria warned in a statement on Tuesday that " the brutality of past years must not be repeated , or Syria will be driven onto a new trajectory of atrocities " . <p> Healthcare overwhelmed <p> Turning to the dire health situation in the northwestern regions , the UN World Health Organization ( WHO ) Representative in Syria , Christina Bethke , said that referral hospitals , to which scores of patients are being evacuated from Aleppo by " brave first responders " such as the Syrian Arab Red Crescent , are " overwhelmed " with trauma cases . <p> " Thousands of injuries have already been admitted in the last four days alone , " she said , while doctors and nurses " are working around the clock to save lives , even at great personal risk to themselves and their families , choosing to stay instead of to flee " . <p> Speaking from Damascus , Ms. Bethke highlighted that " insecurity and restrictions on movement have forced around 65 non-governmental organizations that were previously operational in Aleppo and Idlib to suspend their activities " , leaving health facilities overwhelmed or out of service . <p> " That includes one of Idlib 's largest hospitals , Bab al-Hawa , and Al Razi Hospital in Aleppo , both now reduced to serving emergency cases only and " leaving countless patients in limbo " . <p> Aleppo hospitals mostly shut <p> In Aleppo City , home to over two million people , more than 100 health facilities were functioning just a week ago . " Today , fewer than eight hospitals continue to operate at minimal capacity , " Ms. Bethke said . <p> She added that Monday 's airstrikes in Idlib caused significant damage to healthcare facilities including the University Hospital , the Maternity Hospital and the local health administration . <p> Since 27 November , WHO has received reports of at least six attacks on health care in Syria . Ms. Bethke reiterated that medical facilities are protected under international humanitarian law . <p> Conflict 's dire legacy <p> Syria 's health system has been battered by almost 14 years of armed conflict and the WHO official said that public health concerns are " escalating " amid the crisis , including an increased risk of waterborne diseases and respiratory illness in overcrowded shelter settings . Aleppo and Idlib were at the centre of the 2022-2023 outbreak of cholera in Syria and the 2023 earthquake further damaged already-fragile water and sewer networks , she stressed . <p> Many families in Syria have experienced repeated displacement , including the estimated half a million people who entered the country from Lebanon over the past two months , fleeing the deadly conflict there . <p> Some of them are on the move once again due to the rise in fighting in the northwest and their situation is growing desperate with the onset of winter . At the start of 2024 , 7.2 million people were internally displaced in Syria , almost half of them in the northwest , where the current armed escalation presents challenges to the delivery of life-saving aid . <h> Are you licensed for Scoop ? <p> Scoop is free for personal use , but you 'll need a licence for work use . This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall . Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month , and start using Scoop like a Pro . 
@@118406954 <p> Attacks:There are no safe places for the militarily-dominated population in Gaza , who find themselves subjected to airstrikes and other missile attackson buildings , homes and many essentialfacilities , as well as constant gunfire and invasions by Israeli forces.The Israeli Navy continues to fire missiles , targeting facilities and buildings along the entire Gaza shoreline . <p> Victims:37more people have been killedwithin the past 48 hours , bringing the total number killed in Gaza since 7 Octoberto at least44,466 . Another 108have been wounded , bringing that total to 105,358 . The daily average number of men , women and children killed in Gaza is at least 105 ; that of those injured is now more than 250 . <h> Israeli preparation for settler Occupation <h> in Northern Gaza <h> Israeli settler company specialising in West Bank Outposts -- now at work in Northern Gaza <p> On November 28 , Israeli Housing and Construction Minister , Yitzhak Goldknopf , visited the border of Gaza , accompanied by Daniella Weiss , the godmother of the Zionist settler movement , with the explicit goal of ' scouting ' sites for resettlement . Goldknopf posted a photo gazing through binoculars at the area . " Today I toured the Gaza Strip settlements , " Goldknopf tweeted , framing the expedition as retaliation for the ICC arrest warrants against Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defence Minister Yoav Gallant . " Jewish settlement here is the answer to the terrible massacre and the answer to the International Criminal Court in The Hague who , instead of caring for the 101 hostages , chose to issue arrest warrants against the prime minister and the minister of defence . " <p> " The tour that took place today included a visit to several significant points of view , at the entrance to Tzir Netazir the Netzarim corridor -- to understand the decisive importance of the place and its immediate readiness for Jewish settlement , " a post by Weiss 's Nachala Settler Movement detailed . <p> Israel has conducted extensive demolitions in the Netzarim corridor that divides northern and central Gaza as the Israeli Army works day and night to ethnically cleanse the Palestinians of northern Gaza . " The minister expressed his great appreciation for the dedication and joy of all partners and promised support and help as much as he can for the Jewish settlement in Gaza ! " Read more . <p> Gazan chef Mahmoud Almadhoun , one of the founders of Gaza Soup Kitchen , was killed on Saturday by an Israeli drone strike during his routine visit to Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza , where he would feed displaced people seeking shelter . The chef was among the 300,000 Palestinians who remained in Beit Lahiya , north of the enclave , an area which the United Nations said was facing immediate famine . With their home , bakeries , cropland , chicken farms and fishing fleet destroyed by the Israeli military , Almadhoun and his family were forced to rely on animal feed to survive . <p> In February , Almadhoun decided to start Gaza Soup Kitchen using whatever they could get their hands on as virtually no aid was entering the area , with Anera and World Central Kitchen suspending operations after Israeli attacks targeted their convoys , Since then , the kitchen has been giving out hot meals and drinking water to Palestinians as Israel continues with its assaults on the besieged enclave . In an opinion piece for the Washington Post in April , Almadoudn wrote that he and his family would feed their neighbours for as long as they can . " We will keep serving our community , remembering that when all else has failed the Palestinians , the land did not , " Almadhoun wrote . The chef leaves behind seven children , with the youngest being only two weeks old and the eldest recovering from injuries caused by an Israeli quadcopter . <p> Palestinians are being intentionally massacred , starved , and stripped of everything needed to sustain human life . There are no words that can adequately convey the pain and depravity of this aggression . Those who can not be moved by the pictures of dismembered and charred corpses will not be moved by some words . What sort of world have we descended into ? <p> " On the eve of World Children 's Day last week , the United States vetoed for the fifth time a UN Security Council resolution calling for a ceasefire in Gaza . In the words of the Palestinian ambassador to the UN Majed Bamya " There is no justification for vetoing a resolution trying to stop atrocities . " There is NO justification . " <p> Paediatric intensive care doctor , Dr. Tanya Haj Hassan , Medical Practitioner at Medical Aid for Palestinians ( MAP ) Charity shares her personal account of working with injured and dying children and their families in Gaza . " You can not witness what 's going on in Gaza and not return enraged and determined to stop it " . Watch Dr. Tanya Haj Hassan 's impactful eye-witness report to the UN:https : //youtu.be/GevRchUAPZc <p> Israeli settler attack:Ramallah -- 16:55 , armed Israeli Occupation settlers opened fire on homes , near the western entrance to the village of Umm Safa , and assaulted two village council workers laying a water supply line there . They also smashed the windows of a villager'smotor vehicle . <p> Israeli Army population -- control : Hebron -- evening , the IsraeliArmy closed a side -- road leading to al-Fawar refugee camp , in addition to the closure ofthe refugee camp 's main entrance , already in place for some months . <p> Leslie Bravery is a Londoner with vivid World War Two memories of the Nazi blitz on his home town . In 1947/1948 His father explained to him what was happening to the Palestinians thus : " Any ideology or political movement that creates refugees in the process of realising its ambitions must be inhuman and should be opposed and condemned as unacceptable . " What followed confirmed this assessment of the Zionist entity a hundredfold . Now a retired flamenco guitarist , with a lifelong interest in the tragedy of what happened to the Palestinian people , he tries to publicise their plight . Because the daily injustices they suffer barely get a mention in the mainstream news media , Leslie edits/compiles a daily newsletter , In Occupied Palestine , for the Palestine Human Rights Campaign . These days , to preserve his sanity , he enjoys taking part in a drama group whenever possible ! 
@@118415735 <h> Luxon says Israeli PM would be arrested if he visits New Zealand <p> A " Wanted for mass child murder - bring them in " placard at a Palestine solidarity rally in Auckland last month . . . for months New Zealand protesters have been condemning Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defence Minister Yoav Gallant while demanding that Israeli impunity for genocide end . Image : David Robie/APR <p> The NZ prime minister 's comments followed the ICC announcing arrest warrants for Netanyahu and Israel 's former defence minister Yoav Gallant on allegations of war crimes and crimes against humanity in the 13-month war on the besieged Gaza Strip that has killed more than 44,000 people -- mostly women and children . <p> Netanyahu and Gallant are now fugitives from global justice after the ICC issued the arrest warrants against them . <p> Although Israel -- and the US -- does not recognise the authority of the ICC , the highest international criminal court , and Netanyahu and Gallant will not turn themselves in , the pair 's world has got a lot smaller . <p> The Rome Statute , the treaty that established the ICC , includes 124 state parties across six continents . <p> " The law operates on the basis of a presumption that people will obey it . That 's how all laws are created , " Kuttab told Al Jazeera . <p> " You expect everybody to respect the law . Those who do n't respect the law are themselves violating the law . " <p> He added that there were early signs that countries would not ignore the court 's decision . <p> Many of Israel 's allies -- including several European Union countries -- have committed to enforcing the arrest warrants . <p> The ICC was set up in 2002 to prosecute war crimes , crimes against humanity , genocide and the crime of aggression when member states are unwilling or unable to do so themselves . It is based in The Hague in the Netherlands . <p> The case at the ICC is separate from another legal battle Israel is waging at the top UN court , the International Court of Justice , in which South Africa accuses Israel of genocide , an allegation Israeli leaders deny . 
@@118451533 <p> Today 's Letters to the Editor from readers cover topics including the effect of Israel 's cruelty , the war zone that is our current hospital , and could the DCC be any more inept ? <h> Shocking conditions need rapid response <p> Re the shocking revelations of the working conditions for top surgeons at the present run-down Dunedin Hospital ( ODT 29.11.24 : " Surgical gear often contaminated " ) : It appears that the situation is now so serious -- and obviously has been so for a very long time -- that the stance taken by Christopher Luxon and his ministers , Shane Reti and new governance leader of Health NZ Dr Levy amounts to criminal neglect of the state of health for citizens of Otago , Southland , Queenstown , Lakes District and the Waitaki area . <p> What does it take for the prime minister of our country to take his head out of the sandpit and do something about this state of affairs ? <p> It is time to stop duffing around Mr Luxon and get on with building our urgently needed new hospital . <p> You are our prime minister . Start acting like one . Make the decision now -- or are you afraid of contravening Nicola Willis ' desire to hang on tightly to the purse strings ? <p> Get it done now . People 's lives hang in the balance . We are waiting and witnessing . <p> Pamela Ritchie <p> Caversham <h> War zone <p> Reading some of the stories in the ODT about Dunedin hospital in the last few days , almost gave me the impression that our hospital is currently located to the middle of a war zone . <p> Any large institution such as a major hospital , new or old , is likely to have occasional problems with machinery or buildings ; no big hospital is immune from it . That is the reason they have specialised works and maintenance staff attached to hospitals . <p> Anyone who has worked in any big hospital should know it . I am sure the hospital had similar problems in the past also , with no major adverse effects . <p> All our highly paid specialist staff are capable of functioning under all adverse circumstances . <p> Such stories may not reassure the common people , already worried about their health needs . <p> Mathew Zacharias <p> Mosgiel <h> Roofing iron <p> When members of the public have multiple roof leaks over a lengthy period of time they get a new roof . I 've never heard of them abandoning a 40-50-year-old house because of roof leaks . In fact many people reroof houses that are three times that age . <p> Remember old villas were built between approx 1890-1910 , so they are between 115-135 years old now . <p> George Livingstone <p> Roslyn <h> The real issue <p> Having gratefully spent time at Dunedin Hospital I just wonder if the politics around the possible upgrade and options available according to budget , are clouding the real issue . <p> I see the hospital as physically there which is a start . <p> I am sure with necessary upgrades to the operating theatres and a way of storing all the equipment which seems to end up deposited in the corridors . <p> Sure we would like a state-of-the-art hospital -- the amazing people who work there deserve better conditions -- but the issue needs to step away from the political angst . <p> Margie Stevens <p> Lawrence <h> Policy agendas <p> So , if privatisation is not Dr Reti 's " overt " policy ( ODT 30.11.24 ) , is it his covert one ? <h> The effects and counter-effects of cruelty <p> This story illustrates Israel 's appalling treatment of the wider Palestinian population both now and in past decades . <p> I have not been to Israel but I went to Jordan in 2012 . There , I toured with a Palestinian driver/guide who told me of his father who was never allowed to return to Palestine to see his family 's ancestral lands . <p> My driver 's eyes were filled with tears as he told this story of his refugee father whose life had been overturned by the 1967 Six Day War . <p> I shared my plane trip to Egypt from Amman with a Jordanian Friends of Palestine group who were travelling to the West Bank via the Rafah crossing . They were going to support their Palestinian brothers who were having their olive trees ripped out by land-grabbing Israeli settlers . <p> I hope they succeeded in their quest to at least enter the West Bank . <p> Palestinians are real people with feelings and aspirations , not just targets for self-serving Zionist Israelis . Nor are they pawns in some divine plan to reward self-righteous evangelical Christians . <p> Jenny McNamara <p> Gore <p> I note Jill Rutherford 's comments about how appalled her Israeli friends are about what 's happening in Gaza and West Bank . I feel they are in a very small minority ; 75% of Israelis want a temporary ceasefire for return of hostages , then the war to continue : those large protests every Saturday night are to get the hostages back .. <p> We must also remember the 750,000 illegal Israeli settlers in West Bank have only one ambition : more , more more . I am concerned every illegal Israeli settler further boosts the right-wing voting block which offers no hope for a two-state solution . <p> Mark Wallace <p> Dunedin <h> Days of the pixie dust economy over <p> Could the Dunedin City Council be any more fiscally inept , even if it tried to be ? <p> Firstly , amidst a rates increase " catastrophe " , and recent claims published in the ODT by elected officials to be far more fiscally prudent in their " line by line " costs , they commit another unbudgeted $200,000 to the pointless hospital campaign . This is on top of the previous $100,000 of unauthorised spending on the same project . <p> I appreciate that it may grind the gears of many , but a more fiscally astute government are now in charge and they have stated that $1.8 billion is the budget for the hospital . Perhaps the DCC thinks the era of the pixie dust economy still exists , as that is the way they seem to run things . <p> Dunedin residents need to send an SOS to central government to save our city and get rid of the drunks in charge of the bar before we become the most unliveable , expensive , socialist back water of New Zealand . <p> I plead for nonpartisan and fiscally astute professionals and private enterprise people to please run for council at our next election so we can get wholesale change and have a fighting chance of saving Dunedin from the debt noose . <p> Gary Cole <p> Dunedin <h> Big numbers <p> Some very interesting costings regarding the George St playground . $600,000 also equally matches the weekly interest payments the DCC makes on its loan . <p> Alan Paterson <p> Dunedin <h> Small numbers <p> I look forward to the daily quiz in the ODT but was disappointed with one answer in yesterday 's ( 26.11.24 ) edition . " How many councilors are there on the Dunedin City Council ? " I believe my answer of " too many " was correct . 
@@118451707 <p> Attacks:There are no safe places for the militarily-dominated population in Gaza , who find themselves subjected to airstrikes and other missile attackson buildings , homes and many essentialfacilities , as well as constant gunfire and invasions by Israeli forces.The Israeli Navy continues to fire missiles , targeting facilities and buildings along the entire Gaza shoreline . <p> Victims:36more people have been killedwithin the past 48 hours , bringing the total number killed in Gaza since 7 Octoberto at least44,502 . Another 96have been wounded , bringing that total to 105,454 . The daily average number of men , women and children killed in Gaza is at least 105 ; that of those injured is now more than 249 . <h> OCHA : <h> Key Highlights <p> An Emergency Medical Team was successfully deployed to Kamal Adwan Hospital , in North Gaza , for the first time in 60 days . <p> A severe shortage of medical supplies and consumables is hindering the provision of essential healthcare across the Gaza Strip , and UNRWA warns that at least 60 medications will be depleted at its health facilities by the end of the year . <p> Water production decreased by nine per cent in November , mainly due to critical fuel shortages that have resulted in a 43-per-cent drop in production by groundwater wells across Gaza . <p> Humanitarian access continued to be partly denied or impeded during November , and UNRWA had to suspend the collection of aid supplies from Kerem Shalom crossing due to insecurity and looting of humanitarian cargo . <h> Humanitarian Developments <p> Israeli bombardment from the air , land and sea continues to be reported across the Gaza Strip , resulting in further civilian casualties , displacement , and destruction of civilian infrastructure . In the North Gaza governorate , the Israeli military has been carrying out a ground offensive since 6 October 2024 , with fighting reported between Israeli forces and Palestinian armed groups . Israeli forces have continued to impose a tightened siege on Beit Lahiya , Beit Hanoun and parts of Jabalya and humanitarian assistance has been largely denied for about 60 days ( see data below ) , leaving between 65,000 and 75,000 people without access to food , water , electricity or reliable health care , as mass casualty incidents continue . <p> Between the afternoons of 26 November and 3 December , according to the Ministry of Health ( MoH ) in Gaza , 253 Palestinians were killed and 708 were injured . Between 7 October 2023 and 3 December 2024 , at least 44,502 Palestinians were killed and 105,454 were injured , according to MoH in Gaza . <p> Between the afternoons of 26 November and 3 December , two Israeli soldiers were killed in Gaza , according to the Israeli military . Between 7 October 2023 and 3 December 2024 , according to the Israeli military and official Israeli sources cited in the media , more than 1,580 Israelis and foreign nationals were killed , the majority on 7 October 2023 and its immediate aftermath . The figure includes 380 soldiers killed in Gaza or along the border in Israel since the beginning of the ground operation . In addition , 2,463 Israeli soldiers were reported injured since the beginning of the ground operation . <p> Representing the last lifeline for over two million Palestinians in Gaza , humanitarian workers continue to operate under challenging conditions that undermine their ability to meet humanitarian needs while facing risks to their personal safety . On 30 November , three World Central Kitchen ( WCK ) staff members were killed by an Israeli airstrike on their vehicle near an aid distribution site in Khan Younis , forcing the organization to pause its operations . On the same day , a Save the Children staff member , who is deaf , was killed in a separate Israeli airstrike in Khan Younis while returning home from a mosque . Save the Children condemned the attack in the strongest possible terms and demanded an investigation . On 27 November , UNRWA reported that two additional agency staff had been killed in Gaza , bringing the total fatality toll among UNRWA staff to 249 . Overall , since 7 October 2023 , at least 343 humanitarian workers have been killed in the Gaza Strip , including 253 UN staff . Calling for accountability and an immediate ceasefire to end the suffering , the Humanitarian Co-ordinator for the OPT , Muhannad Hadi , emphasized : " Humanitarians must be granted safe , sustained , and unimpeded access to all those in need . The continued killing of humanitarian workers is an unacceptable violation of international law and further intensifies the catastrophic humanitarian situation . " <p> On 28 November , over 75 Palestinians including children and women were reportedly killed in two strikes on two residential buildings in Beit Lahiya , in North Gaza , according to the Palestinian Civil Defense ( PCD ) that remains blocked by the Israeli authorities from operating in the governorate . PCD further stated that the houses near one of the targeted buildings are inhabited and their residents may have also been killed or injured but their destiny remains unknown . On 29 November , PCD spokesperson described conditions in North Gaza governorate as a " total catastrophe " whereby many people are trapped under rubble for days until they die of their injuries or due to the lack of food and water . According to PCD , more than 2,700 people are estimated to have been killed in North Gaza since 6 October , half of whom have not been retrieved , and more than 10,000 have been injured . <p> The following are some of the other deadly incidents reported between 26 November and 1 December : <p> On 27 November , at about 02:00 , at least nine Palestinians including six females were reportedly killed and 20 others were injured when two floors of a building of Al Tab'aeen School , sheltering IDPs , was hit in central Gaza city . <p> On 28 November , at about 08:40 , nine Palestinians including at least one woman were reportedly killed and several others injured when a group of Palestinians sitting outside a house was hit in the New Camp , north of An Nuseirat refugee camp in Deir al Balah . <p> On 29 November , at about 23:05 , at least ten Palestinians , including two women and two children , were reportedly killed when an apartment was hit in a building in Ash Sheikh Radwan neighbourhood in northern Gaza city . <p> On 29 November , the head of the Intensive Care Unit ( ICU ) at Kamal Adwan Hospital , in North Gaza , was reportedly killed in an Israeli airstrike in North Gaza . <p> On 30 November , at about 11:35 , at least eight Palestinians were reportedly killed when a five-story residential building was hit in Ash Shuja'iyeh neighbourhood , in eastern Gaza city . <p> On 30 November , at about 13:00 , at least 12 Palestinians were reportedly killed and others injured when an area near an aid distribution point was hit in Qizan an-Najjar Village in southern Khan Younis . <p> On 30 November , at about 16:25 , over 40 Palestinians were reportedly killed or injured , according to PCD , when a house sheltering tens of IDPs was hit in Tal Az-Za'atar in North Gaza . Many people are still trapped under the rubble due to very limited resources for retrieval and rescue . <p> On 1 December , at about 19:00 , 25 Palestinians , including women and children , were reportedly killed when a house was hit in Beit Lahiya Project in North Gaza . <p> Israeli Army attack -- 1 wounded : Tulkarem -- 19:10 , Israeli forces shot and wounded a man , Muhammad Nidal Abu Awad , in the area between the towns of Baqa al-Sharqiya and Zeita . <p> Home invasion -- 1 taken prisoner:Jerusalem -- 14:00 , Israeli Occupation forces invaded a home in the Jabal Mukaber neighbourhood , and took prisoner a resident:Nour Zahayka . <p> Home invasion and forced personal demolition:Jerusalem -- the Israeli Occupation forced a resident , Hala Al-Obeidi , to destroy her home in Beit Hanina -- or otherwise be forced to pay an extortionate sum to the Israeli Occupation demolition squads , who would be sent in to do it . <p> Forced personal removal and demolition of mobile home : Jerusalem -- the Israeli Army forced a residentto remove and destroy his mobile home in Beit Hanina -- or otherwise be forced to pay Israeli forces for the destruction . <p> Raid -- 2 taken prisoner in refugee camp : Bethlehem -- 02:00 , the Israelimilitaryraided the city as well as the al-Azza refugee camp , taking prisoner two people and interrogating others , ordering some to report to IsraeliMilitary Intelligence . <p> Leslie Bravery is a Londoner with vivid World War Two memories of the Nazi blitz on his home town . In 1947/1948 His father explained to him what was happening to the Palestinians thus : " Any ideology or political movement that creates refugees in the process of realising its ambitions must be inhuman and should be opposed and condemned as unacceptable . " What followed confirmed this assessment of the Zionist entity a hundredfold . Now a retired flamenco guitarist , with a lifelong interest in the tragedy of what happened to the Palestinian people , he tries to publicise their plight . Because the daily injustices they suffer barely get a mention in the mainstream news media , Leslie edits/compiles a daily newsletter , In Occupied Palestine , for the Palestine Human Rights Campaign . These days , to preserve his sanity , he enjoys taking part in a drama group whenever possible ! 
@@118496759 <p> Speaking in New York , Secretary-General Ant ? nio Guterres addressed the recent escalation in northwest Syria , saying it was painful to see the country 's progressive fragmentation . <p> The Syrian war began nearly 14 years ago , sparked by a civil uprising against the Government . <p> Renewed fighting last week led by the terrorist group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham and other armed groups has engulfed parts of Aleppo , Idlib and Hama , shifting frontlines that had remained unchanged since 2020 . <h> Thousands of families uprooted <p> Local authorities in Hama report that tens of thousands of families have been displaced , some of whom have fled the city for Homs , said UN Spokesperson St ? phane Dujarric , speaking during his daily media briefing from New York . <p> He noted that Hama had previously been a destination for people fleeing hostilities in and around Idlib and Aleppo , " so one can only imagine the scale of the crisis in that city " . <p> Separately , the UN Children 's Fund ( UNICEF ) called for the protection of children amid the escalating crisis . <p> Advertisement - scroll to continue reading <p> The agency is seeking just over $488 million to support seven million people in the region , including 4.3 million children , with life-saving services such as water , sanitation and hygiene , healthcare , nutrition , education , and protection . <p> Mr. Dujarric said the UN and partners continue to provide support wherever and whenever they can , to people displaced by the ongoing hostilities . <h> Cross-border mission from T ? rkiye <p> On Wednesday , UN Deputy Regional Humanitarian Coordinator for the Syria Crisis , David Carden , led a cross-border mission to Idlib from T ? rkiye to assess the situation . <p> He was joined by several UN agencies including aid coordination office OCHA , the UN Children 's Fund ( UNICEF ) , the UN refugee agency UNHCR , the World Health Organization ( WHO ) , and staff from the UN security department . <p> The team also visited a reception center in Dana hosting dozens of newly displaced households and spoke with families who fled their homes in western Aleppo . <p> " During the visit , our refugee agency and local partners provided mattresses , blankets , cooking materials and other items . People at the reception centre urgently need water and sanitation support , as well as heating material , " said Mr. Dujarric . <h> Local hospitals overstretched <p> The mission also visited the Sham Surgical Hospital , which is treating patients wounded by the recent attacks . During the period from 27 November to 2 December , the hospital alone provided life-saving care to more than 200 people , while its ambulance system supported more than 130 people . <p> WHO is providing medical supplies to the hospital , including trauma kits , but added that health workers there are not being paid due to underfunding . <p> Since the start of the escalation of hostilities , more than 30 health facilities in northwest Syria have ceased operations , which is putting immense strain on the remaining functional hospitals . <h> Hot meals for hungry people <p> The World Food Programme ( WFP ) is scaling up assistance to affected people . Staff and partners on the ground are providing ready-to-eat rations and hot meals and have so far served more than 10,000 people . <p> One WFP-supported kitchen began operations in Aleppo on Tuesday , and another is now up and running in Homs . <p> " The agency is providing food to displaced people wherever they are , on both sides of the front lines and in all areas of control . WFP is working to negotiate safe supply corridors to allow a rapid and substantial response to all those in need , " said Mr. Dujarric . <h> Aid in southern Lebanon <p> Turning to Lebanon , he said UN aid coordination office OCHA reported that a humanitarian convoy reached the southern city of Nabatieh that day and delivered food for more than 4,000 people in the area . <p> Since 23 September , the UN and partners have distributed more than nine million packages of food to people impacted by the crisis . <p> OCHA further reported that in addition to the destruction of their homes and essential services in their communities , families in southern Lebanon continue to face insecurity and restricted access . <p> " These include the risk posed by unexploded ordnances and the daily warnings from the Israeli Army , urging civilians to avoid returning to many villages in the south . This is obviously complicating our humanitarian efforts , " said Mr. Dujarric . <h> Ongoing hostilities in Gaza <p> He then moved on to the Gaza Strip , where hostilities continue to kill and injure civilians , including health workers . <p> Some 130 people in central Gaza are now without shelter after an Israeli airstrike on Wednesday hit a school in Deir al-Balah operated by UN Palestine refugee agency UNRWA . <p> Another airstrike in the south that night hit a group of tents in Khan Younis near the road along the coast , reportedly causing nearly 50 casualties . <p> " OCHA carried out an assessment today and says the airstrike burned about 40 tents . We and our partners are mobilizing response efforts to support those who lost their shelters , " he said . <h> Not a target <p> Furthermore , a paramedic from the Palestine Red Crescent Society was fatally shot in Khan Younis on Wednesday after transporting patients for treatment . <p> " Over the past 14 months , hundreds of health and humanitarian workers in Gaza have been killed . Once again , we stress that civilians -- including patients and healthcare workers -- and hospitals must be protected , " he said . <p> The UN Spokesperson also touched on the situation in North Gaza governorate , where humanitarian access has been almost non-existent since the start of the siege two months ago , and civilians are coping with catastrophic shortages of essential items . <h> West Bank attacks <p> Meanwhile the West Bank has seen a sharp increase in attacks by Israeli settlers since the start of the olive harvest season in October , according to OCHA . <p> From 27 October to 27 November , settlers vandalized more than 700 Palestinian-owned trees and saplings , mostly olive , in Palestinian villages in Hebron , Ramallah and Salfit . <p> Between October and November , OCHA also documented about 260 settler-related incidents directly linked to the harvest season across 90 communities in the West Bank . <h> Are you licensed for Scoop ? <p> Scoop is free for personal use , but you 'll need a licence for work use . This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall . Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month , and start using Scoop like a Pro . 
@@118497136 <p> Attacks:There are no safe places for the militarily-dominated population in Gaza , who find themselves subjected to airstrikes and other missile attackson buildings , homes and many essentialfacilities , as well as constant gunfire and invasions by Israeli forces.The Israeli Navy continues to fire missiles , targeting facilities and buildings along the entire Gaza shoreline . <p> Victims:30more people have been killedwithin the past 48 hours , bringing the total number killed in Gaza since 7 Octoberto at least44,532 . Another 84have been wounded , bringing that total to 105,538 . The daily average number of men , women and children killed in Gaza is at least 105 ; that of those injured is now more than 249 . <h> New UN map of Occupied West Bank <p> The new West Bank map is a revision of the May 2023 poster-size map , providing updated information on the imposed Occupation restrictions of movement and population-control that dominate Palestinian pedestrian and vehicular movement across the West Bank . See online <p> Gaza now has the highest number of child amputees per capita in the world -- many losing limbs and undergoing surgery without even anaesthesia " he added . The World Health Organisation estimates that " one in four people injured during the war sustained life-changing injuries and will need rehabilitation services , including care for amputations and spinal cord injuries , " the UNRWA chief said . Since launching its genocidal war on Gaza following a Hamas attack in October last year , Israel has killed over 44,500 Palestinians -- most of them women and children -- and injured more than 105,000 , according to official figures . The second year of the genocide in Gaza has drawn widespread international condemnation , with starvation tactics and blocking humanitarian aid deliveries denounced as deliberate attempts to destroy an entire population . <p> Researchers documenting violence against Palestinian women say so many have been attacked by Israeli soldiers since 7 October , the silence that once accompanied assaults has been shattered Palestinian women have been sexually assaulted by Israeli soldiers throughout the past 75 years , but researchers say they are only beginning to speak publicly about their experiences as incidents have mounted since the 7 October attacks . The cases are so similar , despite happening in different locations and involving different branches of the Israeli military and police , that those documenting them suspect a directive has been handed down.Read more <p> Palestinians in Hebron suffer routine , severe abuse at the hands of Israeli occupation soldiers , Israeli rights group B'Tselem revealed in its latest report today . It added that the acts of violence were aimed at men , women , teenagers and children . The report , titled ' Unleashed ' , describes how " the wave of violence unleashed on Palestinians this past year has changed norms of conduct in the military . " Over 20 testimonies were collected by B'Tselem from Palestinians who were abused by Israeli occupation soldiers between May and August 2024 . Victims describe being randomly seized by soldiers , mostly as they were walking down the streets of the city , going about their daily affairs.Read more <p> Take care , be aware . Be aware that Israel and the Israeli lobby want nothing more , for example , than that you , the reader , will think of Gaza as a separate , nascent state ; will think of Hamas as a terrorist organisation , ruling that nascent state . The Israel lobby can not contemplate that you will think of Palestinians resisting an illegal occupation , and fighting for their self-determination , along with their fellow Palestinians in the West Bank and East Jerusalem , and , indeed , in Lebanon.Read more <p> Moshe Ya'alon , a former Israeli Defence Minister and army chief , has caused an uproar in Israel by publicly accusing the Israeli government of ethnically cleansing Palestinians in Gaza . Twenty-four hours after he first made the remark he was invited by a television interviewer on Monday to apologize . He refused . " What I said accurately reflects what 's happening on the ground , " he said , adding that he intentionally used the term " ethnic cleansing . " Ya'alon defined it as " evacuating civilians from their homes and demolishing those homes , as is happening in Beit Hanoun and Beit Lahiya , " in northern Gaza . <p> In his initial remarks , Ya'alon said Israel 's aim in Gaza was to " conquer , to annex , to purify an ethnic identity . " He added : " They are cleansing the area from the Arabs . " Ya'alon said these ministers National Security Minister Itamar Ben-Gvir and Finance Minister Betzalel Smotritch should have been issued arrest warrants by the International Criminal Court with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defence Minister Yoav Gallant . <p> Israeli Army -- hundreds of olive trees uprooted:Qalqiliya -- Israeli forces bulldozed an area of ? ? agricultural land , near the Annexation Wall adjacent to the town of Jayus , and uprooted around 300 olive trees . <p> Israeli Army -- pastoral and economic sabotage : Bethlehem -- 10:20 , the Israeli Army demolished two livestock shelters and a farm building in the town of Nahalin , as well as a shop , selling building material . <p> Leslie Bravery is a Londoner with vivid World War Two memories of the Nazi blitz on his home town . In 1947/1948 His father explained to him what was happening to the Palestinians thus : " Any ideology or political movement that creates refugees in the process of realising its ambitions must be inhuman and should be opposed and condemned as unacceptable . " What followed confirmed this assessment of the Zionist entity a hundredfold . Now a retired flamenco guitarist , with a lifelong interest in the tragedy of what happened to the Palestinian people , he tries to publicise their plight . Because the daily injustices they suffer barely get a mention in the mainstream news media , Leslie edits/compiles a daily newsletter , In Occupied Palestine , for the Palestine Human Rights Campaign . These days , to preserve his sanity , he enjoys taking part in a drama group whenever possible ! 
@@118516253 <p> Anti-government fighters on the road to Maaret al-Numan in Idlib province on November 30 . Photo : Getty Images <p> Expert opinion from University of Otago - Otakou Whakaihu Waka <p> Opinion : While the world fixated on the faltering Lebanese ceasefire and Gaza , something extraordinary happened in the wider Levant region that threatens to disrupt the trajectory of events in the Middle East . <p> By quickly capturing a major city within days last week and surrounding another , rebel forces have disrupted the power of president Bashar al-Assad 's ruling regime , backed by Russia and Iran . <p> The rebels ' success threatens to expose regional contradictions among rulers in the Middle East , who claim to support Palestinian self-determination and are now faced with Syrians demanding the same outcome . <h> read more <p> It also presents a risk to Israeli calculations if rebels manage to topple the Syrian Baathist regime , who despite lots of resistance rhetoric , have n't fired a shot in anger across the occupied Golan Heights since the 1973 Yom Kippur War . <p> On Wednesday November 27 , Syrian opposition rebels , led by the Islamist faction Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) and the Turkish-backed Syrian National Army ( formerly known as Jaysh al-Har -- Free Syrian Army ) , launched an attack against pro-government forces from inside rebel enclaves around Idlib in northwest Syria . <p> In preceding weeks , the Syrian regime led by Assad had been escalating bombardments on the Idlib enclave and encroaching on the territorial lines set out in the 2017 Astana Agreement between Russia , Turkey and Iran . <p> Extraordinarily , by Sunday morning the flag of the Syrian Revolution ( the flag raised at Syrian independence 1946 ) hung from the walls of the iconic Aleppo citadel . <p> The citadel , which I was fortunate to stand awestruck in front of in 2009 , has in various forms symbolised political and cultural authority at the crossroads of the Levant , Mesopotamia and Asia Minor since thethird millennium BC . <p> Aleppo , Syria 's second largest city and commercial capital , which the regime along with Russia and Iran had reconquered through siege , bombardment and starvation in 2016 , was liberated from regime hands . <p> Furthermore , opposition forces controlled vast swathes of northern Syria as far south as the outskirts of the strategic central city of Hama . <p> Thousands of displaced Syrians from Aleppo and Rif Aleppo ( the northern countryside ) , have started to return to their homes and reunite with family . Some of whom were released from the regime 's gulags where tens of thousands of political prisoners -- considered irredeemable by the Baathist state -- had been left to rot for years since the Syrian revolution in 2011 . <p> Where did all this come from ? <p> For many in the West and even the youth in parts of the Middle East , the dramatic events of the Arab Spring , which shook the Arab world 's authoritarian status quo to its core , are long forgotten , but not for Syrians . <p> In early 2011 I was on my second research trip to the country when Syrians from across the spectrum of its religiously and ethnically diverse society took to the streets . <p> Ordinary people pushed to the wall by drought , corrupt economic mismanagement , and a suffocating security state were inspired by events in Tunisia , Egypt and Libya , and revolted against the 40-year totalitarian rule of the Assad family dynasty . <p> At that time the courageous and determinedly peaceful protests were defined by one chant , wahid , wahid , wahid , al Shab al Suri wahid ( one , one , one , the Syrian people are one ) . <p> Unfortunately , a combination of regime fear mongering , sectarian massacres , western indifference and inaction , and the interventions of Hezbollah and other Iranian proxies ( in 2012 ) , and Russia ( in 2015 ) , served to tear Syrian society apart , which over the course of the next decade seemed to have completely deflated and defeated the Syrian revolution , including across the region as the willpower to push for participation and resist tyranny seemed to vanish . <p> This perception has changed almost overnight . <p> We should not for a second celebrate -- the future is grim indeed and Assad , Putin and Iran have already started to exact revenge via mass bombardments of Idlib and its civilian infrastructure on a Gaza-like scale . <p> And the nature and intentions of the rebel army remains uncertain . However , for Syrians it gives a tiny glimmer of hope that the much-hated regime , which killed , tortured , raped and imprisoned over a million of their co-citizens and drove over 10 million from their homes and out of the country -- might finally end . <p> Even the Syrians picking their children up from school in far away Dunedin seemed to have a proud and hopeful bounce in their step . <p> At the regional level , the rapid collapse of Assad 's power in Syria would be a monumental problem for Arab and Iranian autocrats and the Israelis alike , with the possible exception of maybe President Erdogan in T ? rkiye . <p> It promises to shine a glaring spotlight on the contradictions of the autocratic rulers from Tehran to Cairo to the Gulf , who claim to support Palestinian rights to self-determination and justice but will barely be able to conceal their alarm that Syrians are again demanding theirs ( a dangerous idea that could catch on in their own personal fiefdoms and kingdoms ) . <p> Bashar al- Assad , desperately called the rulers of Gulf states -- who only last year laundered and returned him the Arab League ' autocrat ' club ' -- pleading for help . Some ( perhaps less credible Saudi sources ) even suggested that Assad requested help from Israel to save his rule , making a mockery of Syria 's pro-Palestinian resistance axis credentials . <p> For Israel , it presents a dilemma . While the rebels threaten to overrun Iran 's resistance axis infrastructure in Syria , the possibility of chemical and missile arsenals falling into the hands of rebels of unknown qualities and intentions is troubling and might draw the rebels and Israel into conflict . Although , the rebels , laser focused on toppling Assad , will be keen to avoid this . <p> Basically , the permutations are myriad . <p> So why should we care ? <p> The struggle for a new Middle East likely depends on what happens in Syria . <p> While many analysts rightly point to the Israeli decimation of the power of key Syrian allies Hezbollah and Iran as a critical change , this does not fully explain events , which are driven by internal Syrian evolutions of opposition efficacy and regime decay . <p> In an inversion of past years , opposition forces in recent days have acted as a unified , organised and disciplined military rather than ideologically disparate factions and disorganized militias . <p> In contrast , the largely conscripted regime forces filled with corrupt officers and lacking staunch support on the ground from Iran and Russia , have acted as a fragmented rabble without direction or solidarity of purpose ( ' asabiyya ' as the great 14th century Arab sociologist and historian Ibn Khaldun would put it in describing the key variable in the rise and fall of states and dynasties ) . <p> The strong presence of religious extremists and ethno-nationalists pose a significant dampener to renewed hopes in Syria . <p> The jihadist-originated HTS and other Sunni Islamist components of the rebel army are poised to clash with Kurdish forces to the east and unorthodox Alawites on the coast in a reckoning the latter has long feared . <p> A key question is whether the melting pot of millions of displaced Syrians crammed inside Idlib has knocked off the hard edges of messianics and ethno-nationalists into a more inclusive Syrian nationalism -- this is what HTS claims . <p> Over the years there have been many protests inside Idlib against the hardline Islamist rule , led by committed revolutionaries like the famous activist Raed Fares -- many after him -- who continued to defend the pluralist vision of Syria despite multiple ( ultimately successful ) attempts to silence him . <p> A promising sign in recent days were the Christian church congregations in Aleppo that met last Sunday , completely undisturbed , while rebel fighters patrolled outside . <p> Finally , ordinary Syrians , tired and disillusioned by 14 years of carnage -- are naturally fearful of all warring parties . <p> There is hope , however , in the changed language of the some of the previously intractable communal actors . <p> For example , prominent Alawite spokesperson , Issa Ibrahim , posted a message to Syrians on Facebook : " Syrians , we beseech you to be together in all your rich diversity , against dictatorship and terrorism . " <p> Finally , Syrian author Robin Yassin-Kassab made the important point that while democracy is certainly not knocking on the door anytime soon in Syria , or anywhere in the Middle East , " the future can not start until Assad is gone " . <p> Moreover , for those who continue to think that it is only Israel blocking a Free Palestine , Yassin-Kassab rightly observes that escape from dictatorship for Arabs is " actually a precondition for Palestinian liberation " . <p> Dr Leon Goldsmith is co-founder of Middle East and Islamic Studies Aotearoa ( MEISA ) and a senior lecturer in Middle East and Comparative Politics in the Politics Programme at the University of Otago . More by Dr Leon Goldsmith 
@@118541359 <h> The Demon In The Mirror . Trump Exposes Who We Are . <p> They " will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America . " Donald J Trump about the people of Gaza and their defenders . <p> " Western justifications for their barbarism is well-established -- after all , genocide is a Western liberal value . " Professor Joseph Massad . <p> New Zealand , Australia and the rest " are aiding a regime that is starving people , they are aiding a regime that is preventing children from having anaesthetics in an operating theatre . " Professor Mohammad Marandi . <p> What is the response from our leaders to this genocidal menace to Palestine by Trump ? What does it mean for us as people of the West ? What would it say about us if he made good on the threat and we did nothing ? Below are some harsh assessments from the frontlines about us that we should pay careful attention to . <p> First , weigh Trump 's words in your mind . Israeli leaders were thrilled when Trump pledged that there would be " hell to pay " unless the 100 hostages held in the Gaza Strip were released ahead of his January 20 inauguration . There was no mention of the thousands of Palestinian political prisoners and hostages , including children , held in captivity by Israel . <p> Writing on Truth Social Trump said the Israeli hostages had to be freed by the time he was sworn in or " Those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America . " <p> Advertisement - scroll to continue reading <p> Harder than the US genocide of native Americans ? Harder than the unspeakable horrors of American slavery ? Hit harder than the victims of the atomic bombing of Nagasaki and Hiroshima ? Harder than the three million civilians killed by the US terror bombing of North Korea ? Harder than the years of napalm , B52 bombers , mass rapes and other large-scale US war crimes that stole millions of lives in Vietnam , Cambodia and Laos ? Harder than the US death squads in Central America , Afghanistan and Iraq ? Yes , it is a long and storied history . And now Republican Trump threatens something worse than the genocide that Democrat America and Israel are already inflicting on the Palestinian people . Who else will be targeted is unclear . <p> When Trump tweeted those threats , not a single political leader in a Western country uttered a syllable of censure . <p> Ali Abunimah of electronic intifada asked a very pertinent question when interviewing Columbia University professor Joseph Massad this week , " Were you surprised by the scale of the atrocities Israel was willing to commit or by the seemingly limitless Western support ? " <p> " I was surprised by the scale of the genocide but not by the Western support it has received , " Massad replied . <p> Then Ali Abunimah said something really interesting : " If I think about my own reaction , I was not surprised by what Israel was capable of but I must have naively thought there was a limit to what the West would tolerate . It turns out there is no limit to what they will tolerate . " <p> The words should strike our eardrums like thunder claps . They are , I believe , both shocking and undeniable . Trump will simply force us to face the demon in the mirror . <p> Professor Massad : " Western justifications for their barbarism is well-established - after all , genocide is a Western liberal value . I believe Israel is sincere when it says it abides by Western liberal values : one of which is genocide , one of which is settler colonialism , one of which is racism and contempt for its racial inferiors . " <p> Another voice of judgement on the conduct of our Western governments , our Western culture , is professor Mohammad Seyed Marandi of Tehran University : <p> Marandi says the issuing of arrest warrants for Netanyahu and Gallant was a huge moment , especially for anyone who took the time to read them . According to the International Criminal Court they bear criminal responsibility for " the war crime of starvation as a method of warfare ; and the crimes against humanity of murder , persecution , and other inhumane acts " . <p> " This is the sort of barbarism that Canada and New Zealand are supporting , " Marandi says . " They are aiding a regime that is starving people , they are aiding a regime that is preventing children from having anaesthetics in an operating theatre . That is the reality of New Zealand . That is the reality of Australia . That is the reality of Canada , Norway and Sweden . It 's why ' Western values ' , ' Western civilization ' all become meaningless in the eyes of the international community . " <p> Many Western governments supply weapons and bombs to support the genocide . Others like New Zealand and Australia send troops to attack Yemen to relieve the Houthi blockade of Israel , share intelligence , including targeting data , welcome Israeli diplomats but refuse to recognize Palestine , provide political cover at the UN and elsewhere , refuse to boycott , divest or inflict sanctions on Israel , train with their army and deny the truth of what is happening . <p> On 22 November New Zealand designated Hezbollah as a terrorist entity ; this after the terror bombing of Lebanon by Israel that has killed over 3000 civilians , maimed tens of thousands and destroyed the homes of hundreds of thousands . Prime Minister Christopher Luxon is confused as to who should be labelled terrorists . <p> The repudiation of the ICC warrants for Netanyahu and Yoav Gallant by Germany , France , the US and other Western governments was really just putting yet another bullet into the rotten carcass of Western credibility ; the rest of the world knows international law was designed to go after Muslims , Africans and Slavs , not the white rulers of the West . <p> The Pope said this month Israel 's attacks on Gaza and Lebanon have been immoral and disproportionate and that its military has gone beyond the rules of war . Amnesty International has just released a 300-page report stating that its research has found sufficient basis to conclude that Israel has committed and is continuing to commit genocide against Palestinians in the occupied Gaza Strip . The UN 's report " Genocide as colonial erasure " documents the vastness of the inhumanity being meted out to the Palestinian people by our friends and allies . <p> When governments fail to clear the lowest bars of moral conduct , history demands that populations take action -- that citizens do n't look away but step up and do everything it takes to force fundamental change , respect for human rights and international law . This is a time for activism not indifference or " tuning out " . Professor Marandi lays down the gauntlet to citizens of the West , saying what in our hearts we know about our own governments : <p> " They will allow the extermination of the people of Gaza . And then if the Israelis go after the West Bank , they will allow for that to happen as well . Under no circumstances do I see the West blocking extermination , " Marandi says . How will you personally respond ? <p> I will give the last word to Aaron Bushnell , the young US serviceman who self-immolated in front of the Israeli Embassy in Washington in February to protest at the US and Israel 's genocidal actions in Gaza . His last words on this Earth , as the fire consumed him , were : " Free Palestine ! " <p> Earlier that day , Aaron posted this on X as he set up the livestream : <p> " Many of us like to ask ourselves , " What would I do if I was alive during slavery ? Or the Jim Crow South ? Or Apartheid ? What would I do if my country was committing genocide ? " The answer is , you 're doing it . Right now . " <p> EUGENE DOYLE <p> Eugene Doyle is a writer based in Wellington . He has written extensively on the Middle East , as well as peace and security issues in the Asia Pacific region . He hosts the public policy platform solidarity.co.nz . <h> Are you licensed for Scoop ? <p> Scoop is free for personal use , but you 'll need a licence for work use . This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall . Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month , and start using Scoop like a Pro . 
@@118541526 <h> Israeli forces attack Gaza hospital , expel surgeons <p> Wounded patients lying in hospital hallways before the attack by Israeli forces on the only functioning hospital left in the northern Gaza . Photo : Khalil Ramzi Alkahlut/Anadolu via Getty Images <p> Israeli forces stormed into Kamal Adwan Hospital in Beit Lahiya in north Gaza on Friday and expelled some staff and displaced people before withdrawing , and bodies of people killed by airstrikes littered the streets outside , its director said . <p> The attack had begun with a series of airstrikes on the western and northern sides of Kamal Adwan accompanied by intensive shooting , hospital director Hussam Abu Safiya said , speaking via an online chatroom monitored by Reuters . <p> He said troops who swept into the hospital ordered all staff , patients and displaced people into its courtyard before allowing them hours later to return inside , though some staff including its Indonesian emergency surgery team and some displaced were ordered to leave the premises for good . <p> Israel 's military did not immediately respond to a request for comment . It has previously accused Hamas militants of using civilian buildings including hospitals and schools for operational cover throughout the 14-month Gaza war . Hamas has denied this , accusing Israel of indiscriminate bombings and assaults . <p> Kamal Adwan Hospital has been caught in renewed Israeli military operations in north Gaza against regrouping militants . <p> " This morning , we were shocked to see hundreds of bodies and wounded individuals in the streets surrounding the hospital , " Abu Safiya said in another statement posted online . <p> " The situation inside the hospital and in its vicinity is catastrophic . There are a large number of ( dead ) martyrs and wounded individuals , and no surgeons are left , " he said . <p> Reuters could not independently authenticate his account , given a lack of media access to the Israeli-besieged Gaza Strip . <p> Gaza 's Health Ministry said the three main hospitals on the northern end of the enclave are barely functioning and have been under repeated attack since Israel sent tanks into Beit Lahiya and nearby Beit Hanoun and Jabalia in October . <p> Later on Friday , an Israeli airstrike on a house in Nuseirat in the central Gaza Strip killed at least 18 people , including three children and two women , and wounded 30 other people , medics said . <p> They added that Israeli military strikes across the enclave killed at least 53 Palestinians , most of them in northern Gaza on Friday . <h> DISTRESS CALL <p> In a distress call on Friday , the ministry accused the Israeli military of committing a " war crime " in Kamal Adwan Hospital by perpetrating " all forms of killing and violence inside and around it " . <p> It added : " The injured who remained inside are in critical condition and need immediate medical care . " <p> The ministry said only half of the 37 hospitals and clinics in the war-devastated territory remained operational but lacked essential equipment , manpower , and medical and fuel supplies . <p> The World Health Organization said on Friday Israeli forces had bombed Kamal Adwan Hospital early on Thursday apparently without warning its staff in advance . <p> " That is extremely concerning and should never happen , " WHO spokesperson Rik Peeperkorn told a Geneva briefing by video link . The hospital is now " minimally functional " , he added . <p> Israel 's military says it has killed hundreds of militants in fighting with Hamas in north Gaza since October , a heavily urbanised area it claimed to have subdued early this year . <p> On Friday , it said that over the past week its forces had killed several senior Hamas operatives who were involved in the Oct. 7 , 2023 , cross-border attack that precipitated the war , and were commanding militant units in north and central Gaza . <p> Hamas and its smaller ally Islamic Jihad say they have killed many Israeli soldiers in those areas in the same period . <p> Residents of Beit Lahiya said the army blew up several houses overnight not far from Kamal Adwan Hospital . Palestinians say Israel plans to carve out a buffer zone along the northern fringes of Gaza after depopulating the area . Israel denies this . <p> Later on Friday , COGAT , the Israeli government body that oversees aid to Gaza , said it had facilitated the delivery of thousands of food packages and sacks of flour into Beit Hanoun , in collaboration with international aid agencies , for distribution to the remaining population . <p> Since then , Israeli forces have laid much of Gaza to waste , displacing nearly the entire 2.3 million population . Gaza 's Health Ministry says more than 44,500 Gazans have been killed , with thousands more feared dead under the rubble . 
@@118541699 <p> Attacks:There are no safe places for the militarily-dominated population in Gaza , who find themselves subjected to airstrikes and other missile attackson buildings , homes and many essentialfacilities , as well as constant gunfire and invasions by Israeli forces.The Israeli Navy continues to fire missiles , targeting facilities and buildings along the entire Gaza shoreline . <p> Victims:48more people have been killedwithin the past 48 hours , bringing the total number killed in Gaza since 7 Octoberto at least44,580 . Another 201have been wounded , bringing that total to 105,739 . The daily average number of men , women and children killed in Gaza is at least 105 ; that of those injured is now more than 249 . <h> OCHA : <h> Key Highlights <p> Israeli settlers vandalise more than 700 Palestinian-owned trees and saplings , mostly olive , in three locations in the West Bank within three days . <p> Three Palestinian Bedouin households , comprising 14 people , including eight children and two elderly , residing on the outskirts of Ni'lin village ( Ramallah ) were displaced , citing settler violence as the main cause . <p> Since 7 October 2023 , some 300 Palestinian households comprising 1,757 people , including 855 children , have been displaced in Palestinian Bedouin and other herding communities , primarily citing attacks by Israeli settlers and access restrictions . <p> In 2024 , the proportion of structures ordered by Israel to be demolished by their owners in East Jerusalem has sharply increased . <h> Latest Developments ( after 2 December ) <p> On 3 December , initial reports indicate that an Israeli air strike targeted a vehicle in Aqaba ( Tubas ) , killing two Palestinians and injuring another . Israeli forces raided the Turkish Hospital , where the three casualties were transported , sealed all its entrances and opened fire inside , including in the emergency room , causing widespread panic and damage . At least five medical staff , including doctors , were detained and interrogated for at least one hour as Israeli forces searched for the injured Palestinian , who had already been transferred to another hospital upon his arrival . Efforts by Palestinian District Coordination and Liason Office and ICRC were made to secure the release of the detained medical personnel . <p> On 3 December , initial reports suggest that Israeli settlement guards shot and killed a 15-year-old Palestinian boy near his home in Silwan ( Jerusalem ) . According to Israeli media , the boy was throwing stones at passing vehicles . According to local sources , Israeli settlements ' guards passed through the Ein al Louzeh neighbourhood and fired toward Palestinian houses , injuring the boy . Shortly after , Israeli forces arrived in the area and arrested the injured boy . Later on , the boy was pronounced dead , and his body was withheld . <p> On 4 December , initial reports indicate that Israeli settlers injured a Palestinian man and members of the Israeli forces during a raid on Huwara and Beit Furik ( Nablus ) . During these attacks , settlers set fire to a number of homes and vehicles in these communities . <h> Humanitarian Developments ( 26 November-2 December ) <p> During the reporting period , Israeli forces killed five Palestinians and injured 27 others , including seven children , across the West Bank , including East Jerusalem . Eight Israelis , including four soldiers , were injured as a result of an attack perpetrated by an armed Palestinian in the West Bank . For more information on casualties and further breakdowns of data , please see the monthly West Bank snapshot . All the incidents resulting in Palestinian fatalities and other key incidents by Israeli forces are as follows : <p> On 29 November , Israeli forces shot and killed a Palestinian man who perpetrated a shooting attack that injured four Israeli settlers and four Israeli soldiers at a bus stop near Ariel settlement . According to Israeli media , the Palestinian man ( from Einabus village , Nablus ) stopped his vehicle on the side of the road near the bus stop and opened fire at an Israeli bus . In response , Israeli forces shot him and withheld his body . <p> On 30 November , Israeli forces shot and injured a Palestinian boy and physically assaulted , and injured another one in the village of ' Asira al Qibliya , southwest of Nablus . According to the Head of the Village Council , Israeli forces raided the village , and Palestinians threw stones at the military vehicles . Israeli forces then fired tear gas canisters , sound bombs , and live ammunition at the stone-throwers . A 15-year-old boy sustained a gunshot wound to the leg and a 16-year-old boy was physically assaulted by the forces . Both injured boys were transported to the hospital by medical teams in the area . <p> On 1 December , Israeli forces killed four Palestinians during an operation that involved airstrikes and exchanges of fire between armed Palestinians and Israeli forces in Sir village ( Jenin ) . The operation lasted about seven hours , during which Israeli forces struck armed Palestinians near a cave on the outskirts of the village . The Palestinian District Coordination Office and Ministry of Health reported that Israeli forces have withheld the four Palestinian bodies . Medical teams reported that Israeli forces prevented them from reaching the targeted area . It remains uncertain whether the fatalities resulted from an Israeli drone strike or occurred during an exchange of fire . <p> During the reporting period , OCHA documented 45 incidents involving settlers and affecting Palestinians , including 21 attacks that resulted in casualties , property damage or both . In total , two Palestinians were injured by Israeli settlers and six others were injured by Israeli forces during these attacks . Five Israeli settlers were injured in two separate Palestinian-perpetrated attacks ; four by live ammunition and one by stone throwing . About four incidents affecting Palestinians took place within the context of the olive harvest season , which resulted in the vandalism of about 700 trees and saplings , mostly olive . <p> The following are some of the key settler incidents that took place during the reporting period , which entailed intimidation , harassment , physical injury , property damage or a combination thereof , and include cases where Israeli forces were present : <p> Israeli settlers vandalised more than 700 Palestinian-owned trees and saplings , mostly olive , in three locations on 27 and 29 November in the Palestinian villages of Yasuf ( Salfit ) , Turmus'ayya ( Ramallah ) and Zif ( Hebron ) . The vandalism included the uprooting and cutting of trees and herding of their flocks in Palestinian-owned land which damaged crops . <p> On 1 December , a group of armed and masked settlers physically assaulted and injured two Palestinians in the village of Umm Safa ( Ramallah ) . According to local sources , the settlers raided the village and attacked Palestinian workers with metal sticks and a rifle . In addition , they vandalised one car and a bulldozer , stole their keys , and damaged some work equipment . Israeli forces arrived after the attack and fired live ammunition , tear gas and sound grenades at Palestinians who had gathered in the village after the attack . <p> On 1 December , masked and armed Israeli settlers believed to be from Yitzhar settlement raided Madama village , south of Nablus city . Villagers gathered to try to repel the settlers , after which Israeli forces intervened by firing live ammunition , tear gas canisters , and sound grenades at the Palestinians . According to medical sources , six Palestinians , including two children , were treated on-site for gas inhalation . <p> On 30 November , armed Israeli settlers believed to be from the Magzazi Farm settlement outpost , attacked Palestinian Bedouin families residing on the eastern outskirts of Area C in Ni'lin village ( Ramallah ) . According to video footage , armed settlers raided the community , intimidated the families , and threatened further attacks if they do not leave the area . Later that day , the settlers returned with dogs , which attacked and injured one of the community 's cows . On 2 December , three Palestinian Bedouin households comprising 14 people , including eight children and two elderly persons , residing on the outskirts of the village began relocating to a different location . According to the families , they have been forced to leave due to recurrent threats and attacks by Israeli settlers . The settlement outpost expanded near the community in May 2024 and since then settler violence has intensified in the area . Since 7 October 2023 , some 300 Palestinian households comprising 1,757 people , including 855 children , have been displaced in Bedouin and other herding communities , primarily citing attacks by Israeli settlers and access restrictions . <p> Since the start of the olive harvest season in October , Palestinian farmers have faced a sharp increase in settler-related violence , with their livelihoods and safety severely jeopardised . Between October and November , OCHA documented about 260 settler-related incidents directly related to the season across 89 West Bank communities , the majority of which resulted in casualties , property damage or both . This is at least a three-fold increase compared to each of the preceding three years . These incidents resulted in 57 Palestinians injured by settlers , 11 injured by Israeli forces , over 3,100 trees and saplings , mostly olive , burned , sawed-off , or vandalised , and significant theft of crops and harvesting tools . Nearly 60 per cent of these incidents occurred in the northern West Bank , with Nablus governorate alone accounting for over a quarter . The central West Bank , mainly Ramallah governorate , witnessed around a fifth of the incidents , while 18 per cent took place in Bethlehem and Hebron governorates in the south . This geographic distribution aligns with previous years ' trends ; however , the volume of incidents has significantly increased . <p> The Israeli authorities demolished , forced people to demolish , or seized 27 Palestinian-owned structures across the West Bank , including East Jerusalem . This resulted in the displacement of 11 people , including seven children , and otherwise affected the livelihoods , or access to services , of over 200 others . All but four of targeted structures were demolished due to a lack of Israeli-issue building permits , which are nearly impossible for Palestinians to obtain . Twenty of the targeted structures were in Area C of the West Bank , five were in East Jerusalem , and two were in Area B of the West Bank . <p> On 27 November , Israeli forces raided Idhna village ( Hebron ) in Area B of the West Bank and demolished a two-storey house and a water cistern , on punitive grounds . The house belonged to the Palestinian man who committed a shooting attack near Tarqumiya ( Hebron ) killing three Israeli police officers on 1 September 2024 ; he was killed on the same day in Hebron city in an exchange of fire with Israeli forces . Since the beginning of 2024 , 33 structures have been demolished on punitive grounds , compared with 37 structures in all of 2023 and 14 in 2022 . Punitive demolitions are a form of collective punishment and are illegal under international law . <p> From 1 January to 30 November 2024 , 64 per cent of structures demolished in East Jerusalem ( 121 out of 189 structures ) for lacking Israeli-issued building permits were destroyed by their owners following the issuance of demolition orders by the Israeli authorities . These demolitions accounted for around 60 per cent of people displaced in East Jerusalem within this context until end of November 2024 ( 289 out of 481 people ) . The rate of demolitions by owners of structures served with demolition orders has increased and stood at about 53 per cent in each of 2022 and 2023 . More than half of homes and other structures demolished by their owners ( 63 out of 121 ) during this period took place in Jabal Mukabbir ( 23 ) , Al Isawiya ( 22 ) , and Silwan ( 18 ) . Jabal Al Mukabbir alone accounts for 28 per cent of people displaced after being forced to demolish their own homes for lacking building permits . These demolitions are supported by Israeli legislation , which limits the authority of Israeli courts to intervene , exerting additional pressure on families to demolish their properties themselves . In one such incident documented by OCHA in August 2024 in Silwan , the affected family had been paying over 100,000 NIS ( $27,700 ) in fines since 2014 for adding a new section to their home , built before the year 2000 without a permit . In August 2024 , they received a final demolition order , after which Jerusalem Municipality officials reportedly stormed their house regularly , pressuring the family to demolish the property within 21 days . This incident displaced two households , comprising nine people , including four children . <p> In February 2024 , Israeli authorities issued military orders to requisition approximately 30 dunums of Palestinian-owned land from the towns of Sinjil ( with an estimated population of 6,500 , PCBS 2024 population projections ) and Turmus'ayya ( with an estimated population of 2,800 , PCBS 2024 population projections ) , both north of Ramallah along Road 60 . According to local sources , the Israeli Civil Administration informed the towns ' residents months earlier that the seized land would be used to construct a fence to protect Israeli settlers passing along Road 60 from stone-throwing . Reportedly , the planned fence wall , approximately 1,500 metres long and four metres high , would close off lands overlooking Road 60 -- which is the main road connecting the northern , central , and southern West Bank -- from both the Sinjil and Turmus'ayya sides , severely restricting access to agricultural land and homes . Additionally , according to the Sinjil Municipality , 13 houses lie in the path of the fence wall , and 8,000 dunums of agricultural land near settlements in northeastern Sinjil are at risk of being isolated . In August 2024 , Israeli authorities issued an additional order to requisition 15 more dunums of land for the fence construction . By late September , Israeli forces had begun levelling privately-owned Palestinian land in Sinjil , demolishing one uninhabited residential house , uprooting over 200 trees ( including 135 olive trees ) , destroying retaining walls , and bulldozing fields cultivated with vegetables . These actions affected approximately 162 people , including 94 children . The Sinjil Municipality petitioned the Israeli Civil Administration against the fence construction plans , but their objections were dismissed . Field observations by the municipality suggest that bulldozing activities have extended beyond the areas specified in the original plans . Furthermore , on 22 November 2024 , Israeli settlers believed to be from nearby settlements attacked the requisitioned areas , cutting down and stealing two ancient olive trees before fleeing the scene . <p> Home invasions and population -- control : Bethlehem -- 01:15 -- 03:25 , the Israeli Army raided Beit Sahour and searched a number of homes , ordering one resident to report for interrogation at Israeli Military Intelligence . <p> Israeli Army assault -- beating and murder:Nablus -- 11:30 , Israeli Occupation troops invaded land , belonging to Atef Abdul Malik Diriya ( aged 66 ) , near the entrance to the town of Aqraba , beating him to death and stealing his motor vehicle . <p> Israeli Army destruction -- economic sabotage:Nablus -- 08:00 , Israeli forces destroyed a marble and stone factory , at the entrance to the village of Majdal Bani Fadil . <p> Israeli Army destruction -- economic sabotage:Nablus -- morning , the Israeli Army demolished two businesses , in the town of Huwara . <p> Israeli Army population -- control:Bethlehem -- 22:00 , Israeli soldiers took prisoner a man , Shahada Muhammad Shahada Al-Taamari , when he reported , as ordered , for interrogation at IsraeliMilitary Intelligence . <p> Israeli Army population -- control andagricultural sabotage : Hebron -- Occupation forces prevented farmers from ploughing their land and seized agricultural equipment from them , and then forced them off the land in the Shaab al-Batm area , east of Yatta. 
@@118550152 <p> Israeli soldiers wilfully post their crimes online for all the globe to see . Palestinian journalists are being deliberately targeted by Israel in an unprecedented way . <p> Every day brings new horrors in Gaza , Lebanon and beyond . And that 's not ignoring the catastrophes in Syria , Sudan and Myanmar . <p> But we ca n't despair or disengage . It can be hard with an incoming Trump White House stuffed with radicals , evangelicals and bigots but now is not the time to do so . <p> We must keep on reporting , investigating , sharing , talking and raising public awareness of the real threats that surround us every day ( from the climate crisis to nuclear war ) and finding ways to solve them . <p> Always find hope . <p> New global project Here 's some breaking news . I 've said nothing about this publicly . Until now . <p> I 've spent much of the year working on a documentary film series inspired by my best-selling book , The Palestine Laboratory . I 've travelled to seven countries over many months , filming under the radar due to the sensitivity of the material . <p> I ca n't say much more at this stage except that it 's nearly completed and will be released soon on a major global broadcaster . <p> The photo at the top of the page is me in a clip from the series in an undisclosed location ( after I 'd completed a voice-over recording session . ) <p> Stay tuned for more . This work will be ground-breaking . <p> My recent work has largely focused on the worsening disaster in the Middle East and I 've spoken to media outlets including CNN , Al Jazeera English , Sky News and others . 
@@118566785 <p> 1 . Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs Rt Hon Winston Peters MP and Minister of Defence Hon Judith Collins KC MP hosted Australian Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Defence the Hon Richard Marles MP and Minister for Foreign Affairs Senator the Hon Penny Wong on 6 December in Auckland for the second Australia -- New Zealand Foreign and Defence Ministerial Consultations ( ANZMIN ) . Ministers also met separately for a Foreign Ministers ' Meeting and a Defence Ministers ' Meeting . <p> The Australia-New Zealand Alliance <p> 2 . Ministers acknowledged the strength of strategic alignment that characterises the trans-Tasman partnership , as family , neighbours , and formal allies . They reaffirmed that in the face of growing geostrategic challenges , Australia and New Zealand remained steadfast in their commitment to act together as allies to safeguard national interests and advance peace , stability and prosperity in the region and beyond . Ministers reiterated their commitment to the Australia-New Zealand alliance , underpinned by the 1951 ANZUS Treaty . Ministers noted the value of ANZMIN as an important element of the bilateral architecture , supporting Australia and New Zealand 's ability to harness all tools of statecraft to respond to the sharpening challenges presented by the most complex and challenging strategic environment in decades . <p> 4 . Recognising that the peace and prosperity of all countries and territories in the Pacific are interconnected , Ministers reaffirmed their deep commitment to working in partnership with our fellow Pacific countries . Ministers reiterated their ongoing support for Pacific-led architecture , with the Pacific Islands Forum ( PIF ) at the heart of Pacific regionalism . As fellow founding members of the PIF , they recognised Australia and New Zealand 's roles in contributing to a stronger Pacific family , upholding common values and norms , and to advancing the Pacific 's priorities set out in Pacific Leaders ' 2050 Strategy for the Blue Pacific Continent and its Implementation Plan . They underscored the importance of supporting the PIF Chair and the principle of engaging on issues through talanoa . They welcomed Samoa 's successful hosting of a uniquely Pacific Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting in October , with support from New Zealand and Australia . <p> 5 . Ministers recognised that climate change remained the single greatest threat to Pacific countries . Australia and New Zealand were committed to amplifying Pacific voices and to working in close alignment in response to climate change impacts . Ministers reiterated support for the Pacific Resilience Facility as a Pacific-led solution , to which Australia and New Zealand had pledged significant contributions . New Zealand reaffirmed its strong support for Australia 's bid to host COP31 in 2026 in partnership with the Pacific . <p> 6 . Ministers noted their enduring commitment to provide humanitarian assistance to the Pacific in response to disasters . They discussed Australia and New Zealand 's aligned approach to humanitarian and disaster relief in the Pacific , and reaffirmed the importance of cooperating closely and supporting Pacific-led responses to humanitarian crises . They acknowledged the importance of the region working together on these challenges , including through the sharing of expertise across Pacific civilian agencies and Pacific militaries . Ministers agreed the Pacific Response Group , as endorsed at this year 's South Pacific Defence Ministers ' Meeting , would be a valuable regional asset to support effective responses to disasters . <p> 7 . Ministers recognised the long history of Pacific-led approaches to peace and security challenges , noting Pacific Leaders had affirmed that the region had the will and capability to address shared security concerns from within . States from outside the region should engage in the Pacific in ways that respect and strengthen regional norms and institutions and respond to Pacific priorities . They recognised the importance of enhancing cooperation , including through regional security architecture such as the South Pacific Defence Ministers ' Meeting . Ministers agreed to continue to work together with Pacific countries to strengthen regional security meetings as an avenue to advance regional priorities . They also looked forward to progressing implementation of the Pacific Policing Initiative , as endorsed by PIF Leaders in August . <p> 8 . Ministers noted with concern China 's recent testing of an Intercontinental Ballistic Missile terminating within the South Pacific Nuclear Free Zone , conducted without adequate advanced notice to all countries affected in line with best practice . Ministers reiterated their expectations , and those of Pacific Leaders , that the region remain peaceful , stable , prosperous and secure . <p> 9 . Ministers underscored Australia and New Zealand 's commitment to infrastructure investment in line with the Pacific Quality Infrastructure Principles and recognised our significant shared investments estimated at AUD150 million . They agreed that Australia and New Zealand would continue to engage with the World Bank and Asian Development Bank to advance transparent , responsive and high-quality development , in line with the Pacific Quality Infrastructure Principles , including value-for-money procurement processes and providing opportunities for local participation , skills development and employment . Ministers highlighted Australia and New Zealand 's joint support to expand vital undersea telecommunication cable connectivity in the region , with new connections to Tuvalu and Tonga scheduled to be ready for service in 2025 . <p> 10 . Ministers welcomed the increased focus on ensuring a resilient and stable Pacific banking system . They reflected that the Pacific Banking Forum in July and the Pacific Banking Forum Roundtable in October had built consensus on the actions required to bolster banking services across the region , including through the forthcoming World Bank Pacific Strengthening Correspondent Banking Relationships Project . <p> The Indo-Pacific region <p> 11 . Ministers reaffirmed Australia and New Zealand 's firm commitment , including through working with other partners , to support a peaceful , stable and prosperous Indo-Pacific , where sovereignty is respected , and internationally agreed rules and norms are adhered to . They agreed Australian and New Zealand defence forces would continue to lift their cooperation to advance common interests in the Indo-Pacific region , including to uphold the international rules-based system . <p> 12 . Ministers committed to continue to work together to support , and lift engagement with , Southeast Asia , as an integral part of the Indo-Pacific . Ministers agreed to continue to coordinate on economic engagement and trade diversification in Southeast Asia including through Australia 's work to implement its Southeast Asia Economic Strategy and New Zealand 's commitment to step up and deepen engagement with Southeast Asia . Ministers looked forward to the entry into force of the ASEAN-Australia-New Zealand Free Trade Area ( AANZFTA ) Upgrade which would empower traders with new rules to grow services , investment and digital trade . <p> 13 . Ministers highlighted the central role played by ASEAN in shaping a stable , peaceful , prosperous and rules-based region . Ministers reaffirmed their support for ASEAN centrality and the ASEAN-led architecture , and underlined their commitment to the principles outlined in the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific and their practical implementation . <p> 14 . Ministers welcomed the Quad 's commitment to an open , stable and prosperous Indo-Pacific and the practical contribution the Quad was making to issues of importance to the countries of the region . They agreed Australia would continue to engage close partners , including New Zealand , to ensure efforts were mutually reinforcing and complementary . <p> 15 . Ministers expressed serious concern over developments in the South China Sea and the intensification of destabilising activities . This included the militarisation of disputed features , interference with the exercise of rights and freedoms afforded states under UNCLOS , and instances of unsafe and unprofessional behaviour by China 's military , coast guard vessels and maritime militia , including towards the Philippines . Ministers also expressed serious concerns about the situation in the East China Sea . <p> 16 . Ministers emphasised the obligation of all states to adhere to international law , particularly the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea . They underscored the fundamental importance of the peaceful settlement of disputes in accordance with international law and reiterated that the 2016 South China Sea Arbitral Award is final and binding on the parties . Ministers reaffirmed their shared commitment to promoting stability and security in the region 's vital international waterways and to continuing to work with Indo-Pacific partners to build capability and strengthen interoperability , including through Multilateral Maritime Cooperation Activities . <p> 17 . Ministers reaffirmed the importance of peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait and their shared opposition to unilateral changes to the status quo . They called for the peaceful resolution of cross-Strait issues through dialogue without the threat or use of force or coercion . They also reiterated their will to continue deepening relations with Taiwan in the economic , trade , and cultural fields as well as enhancing development coordination in the Pacific . <p> 18 . Ministers reiterated their deep concern at the escalating violence and deepening humanitarian crisis in Myanmar . They reaffirmed Australia and New Zealand 's commitment to supporting the people of Myanmar 's desire for a return to an inclusive democracy . Ministers strongly condemned the regime 's violent repression of its people , including the continued bombardment of civilian infrastructure . They reiterated calls on the regime to immediately cease violence , release those arbitrarily detained , allow safe and unimpeded humanitarian access , and to return Myanmar to the path of inclusive democracy through genuine and inclusive dialogue . Ministers reaffirmed their full support for ASEAN 's central role in finding a peaceful resolution to the crisis , including through the work of the ASEAN Chair and Special Envoy , consistent with the Five-Point Consensus . They also reaffirmed the important role of the UN , including the Secretary-General 's Special Envoy for Myanmar , and the international community . <p> 19 . Ministers strongly condemned North Korea 's development of nuclear weapons and ballistic missile technology and reaffirmed their commitment to the complete denuclearisation of the Korean Peninsula , consistent with UNSC resolutions . They urged the Democratic People 's Republic of Korea ( DPRK ) to comply with its obligations under UNSC resolutions . <p> 20 . Ministers underscored the importance of continued dialogue between the United States and China , including as a means of responsibly managing strategic competition . They reemphasised the importance of promoting open channels of communication , transparency , and practical measures to reduce risks of misunderstanding , miscalculation , escalation and conflict in our region . <p> 21 . Ministers affirmed the importance of partnerships contributing to regional security and stability , including the Five Power Defence Arrangements ( FPDA ) and AUKUS . They also welcomed further cooperation between the North Atlantic Treaty Organization ( NATO ) member states and its Indo-Pacific Partners ( IP4 ) , and agreed that the Five Eyes partnership remained a vital part of the shared security architecture . <p> 22 . Ministers acknowledged Australia 's commitment to responsible nuclear stewardship and the highest non-proliferation standard in relation to its acquisition of conventionally-armed , nuclear-powered submarines . The Ministers also welcomed the AUKUS partners ' ongoing engagement with the International Atomic Energy Agency . The Ministers noted consultations were continuing on opportunities for collaboration on advanced non-nuclear capabilities under AUKUS Pillar II . <p> 23 . Ministers expressed grave concerns about human rights violations in Xinjiang , and about the erosion of religious , cultural and linguistic rights and freedoms in Tibet . They also shared grave concerns about the continuing systemic erosion of Hong Kong 's autonomy , freedom , rights and democratic processes , including through the imposition of national security legislation . <p> Collaborating to address global challenges <p> 24 . Ministers reaffirmed Australia and New Zealand 's commitment to multilateralism and the rules-based international system , as fundamental underpinnings of peace , security and prosperity in an increasingly complex and disrupted world . They emphasised their opposition to economic coercion in all its forms and recognised the importance of multilateral institutions and norms that promote free , fair , and open international trade . <p> 25 . Ministers highlighted Australia and New Zealand 's shared commitment to the Paris Agreement and underlined that a rapid and effective global response to climate change was needed in this critical decade . To this end , they welcomed the ambitious and comprehensive outcomes of the second Australia-New Zealand Climate and Finance Ministers ' Meeting in July . <p> 26 . Ministers noted Australia and New Zealand had a long history of cooperation on Antarctica and Southern Ocean issues . They remained firmly focused on strengthening the Antarctic Treaty System , which protects Antarctica as a natural reserve for peace and science . Upholding the principles of the Antarctic Treaty together and working with others , was more important than ever . <p> 27 . Ministers welcomed the announcement of a ceasefire in Lebanon and acknowledged the efforts of the parties involved in the negotiations . Ministers called for the terms of the agreement to be implemented fully in order to break the cycle of violence and enable displaced civilians to return to their homes on both sides of the border . <p> 28 . Ministers noted that the breakthrough in Lebanon demonstrates the value of diplomacy and called on parties to uphold the ceasefire . Ministers underscored the importance of de-escalation in the region and a ceasefire in Gaza . They remained unequivocal in their condemnation of Hamas and the taking of hostages , and called for Hamas to release all remaining hostages immediately . They respected Israel 's right to defend itself , but noted the right of self-defence was not unconstrained and needed to comply with international law , including international humanitarian law . Ministers expressed alarm at the humanitarian situation in Gaza and called on Israel to do more to enable safe , rapid and unimpeded humanitarian access . They underlined that civilians , as well as humanitarian and health workers must be protected . <p> 29 . Ministers noted alarm at the treatment of UN Agencies by Israel . UN Agencies remain essential to the humanitarian response in Gaza . As the UN Security Council has stated , UNRWA remains the backbone of all humanitarian response in Gaza . No organization can replace or substitute UNRWA 's capacity and mandate to serve Palestinian refugees and civilians in urgent need of life-saving humanitarian assistance . The UN system had an important role to play in the future of the region , and needed to be allowed to do its job , as mandated by the Council and UN members states . They further called on parties to take steps toward a two-state solution and refrain from action that undermined it , including illegal Israeli settlements in the occupied Palestinian territories . <p> 30 . Ministers once again condemned in the strongest possible terms Russia 's illegal and unprovoked full-scale invasion of Ukraine . They condemned the deployment of DPRK troops in support of Russia 's war of aggression , which represented a dangerous expansion of the conflict . Ministers agreed deepening military cooperation between Russia and the DPRK had significant implications for security in the Indo-Pacific , and that New Zealand and Australia would continue to assist Ukraine to exercise its right to self-defence as enshrined in Article 51 of the UN Charter . Ministers discussed the need to ensure the international community holds Russia to account . They expressed concerns that Russia 's recent changes to its nuclear doctrine presented risks of further escalation and miscalculation . Ministers called on all those with influence over Russia , particularly China , to exert it now to end Russia 's illegal war to avoid actions that support Russia and its industries to re-build military capabilities . <p> 31 . Ministers reiterated their shared commitment to realising a world without nuclear weapons , and were seized of the urgent need for progress on nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation , including as States Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and the South Pacific Nuclear Free Zone Treaty ( Treaty of Rarotonga ) . They noted the importance of strengthening the international disarmament and arms control regime in the current challenging environment , including through measures such as nuclear risk reduction and enhanced transparency and accountability . 
@@118587596 <h> Amnesty International doubles down on Israeli Gaza ' genocide , atrocities ' report at NZ rally <p> Amnesty International Aotearoa 's people power manager Margaret Taylor . . . " Israel has committed and is - this very minute - committing genocide against Palestinians in the occupied Gaza Strip . " Image : David Robie/Asia Pacific Report <p> Amnesty International officials at a rally in Auckland today doubled down on their global report this week accusing Israel of genocide and called on Aotearoa New Zealand to take more action over the atrocities in the besieged enclave of Gaza . <p> The global human rights movement 's 296-page fully documented report says Israel has " unleashed hell and destruction on Palestinians in Gaza brazenly , continuously and with total impunity " . <p> Speaking at the weekly rally in Te Komititanga Square in the heart of Auckland today , Amnesty International Aotearoa 's people power manager Margaret Taylor said the report was " irrefutable " . <p> " Israel has committed and is -- this very minute -- committing genocide against Palestinians in the occupied Gaza Strip , " she said and was supported with loud shouts of " shame , shame ! " <p> Al Jazeera reports that 50 people were killed in the latest Israeli attacks on central Gaza 's Nuseirat refugee camp -- in which the death toll included six children and five women -- and the Indonesian Hospital in northern Gaza 's Beit Lahiya district . <p> The report examines in detail Israel 's violations in Gaza over nine months between 7 October 2023 and early July 2024 . <p> ' Firsthand accounts , satellite photography ' " Amnesty International interviewed hundreds of people with firsthand accounts . We analysed photos and video footage of the devastation , the remains of weaponry , corroborated with satellite photography , and we reviewed a huge range of data sets , repirts and statements by UN agencies , humanitarian organisations , human rights groups , and senior Israeli government officials and military leaders , " said Taylor . <p> " As I said before , this is irrefutable . <p> " This is genocide . And it must stop now , " she said . <p> The Amnesty International delegation at today 's justice and ceasefire rally for Palestine in downtown Auckland . Image : David Robie/Asia Pacific Report <p> " With this evidence we are demanding that all those accused of genocide be brought to justice . Decades of impunity must stop . <p> " We have to use all the tools at our disposal -- the International Criminal Court , the International Court of Justice , extraterritorial jurisdiction -- to ensure that those accused of genocide , crimes against humanity and war crimes are brought to justice . <p> " We must ensure that perpetrators have nowhere to run and nowhere to hide . " <p> The Amnesty International report said that the " atrocity crimes " against Israelis by Hamas on 7 October 2023 , which triggered the current war -- although brutal repression against the Palestinians has been extensively reported since the Nakba in 1948 -- " do not justify genocide " . <p> The publication of the report has been welcomed around the world by many humanitarian and human rights groups but condemned by Israel and criticised by its main backer , the United States . <p> In a statement , the Israeli Foreign Minister claimed : " The deplorable and fanatical organisation Amnesty International has produced a fabricated report that is entirely false and based on lies . " <p> A " thousands of children are dying " placard at today 's Palestine rally in Auckland . Image : David Robie/Asia Pacific Report <p> Margaret Taylor said : " The wheels of international justice have finally caught up with those who are alleged to be responsible for war crimes and crimes against humanity . This is an historic breakthrough for justice . . . <p> " That 's a start . Prime Minister Netanyahu is now officially a wanted man . " <p> Israel 's actions had brought Gaza 's population to the " brink of collapse " , said the Amnesty International report . <p> " Its brutal military offensive had killed more than 42,000 Palestinians now more than 44,000 , including over 13,300 children , and injured over 97,000 more , by 7 October 2024 , many of them in direct or deliberately indiscriminate attacks , often wiping out entire multigenerational families . <p> " It has caused unprecedented destruction , which experts say occurred at a level and speed not seen in any other conflict in the 21st century , levelling entire cities and destroying critical infrastructure , agricultural land and cultural and religious sites . <p> NZ needs to take action Taylor told the rally that New Zealand needed to take more action over the genocide , such as : <p> Publicly recognise that Israeli authorities are committing the crime of genocide and commit to strong and sustained international action ; <p> Ban imports from illegal settlements as well as investment in companies connected to maintaining the occupation ; and <p> Do everything possible to facilitate Palestinian people seeking refuge to come to Aotearoa New Zealand and receive support . <p> In RNZ 's Checkpoint programme on Thursday , Amnesty International Aotearoa 's advocacy and movement building director Lisa Woods said the organisation had worked to establish the intent behind Israel 's acts in Gaza , adding that they meet the definition of genocide . <p> The series of air strikes analysed in the report had hit civilian homes in densely populated urban areas . <p> " No evidence was found that any of these strikes were directed at a military objective , " she said . <p> " The report found that the way these attacks were conducted is that they were conducted in ways that were designed to cause a very high number of fatalities and injuries among the civilian population . " <p> Today 's Palestine rally also devoted part of its activities to preparing a series of on-the-spot submissions to the Treaty Principles Bill amid many " Kill the bill " tee-shirts , banners and placards . <p> A " Kill the Bill " tee-shirt referring to the controversial Treaty Principles Bill widely regarded as a fundamental attack on Aotearoa New Zealand 's foundational 1840 Treaty of Waitangi at today 's Palestine rally in Auckland . Image : David Robie/Asia Pacific Report 
@@118614292 <p> Attacks:There are no safe places for the militarily-dominated population in Gaza , who find themselves subjected to airstrikes and other missile attackson buildings , homes and many essentialfacilities , as well as constant gunfire and invasions by Israeli forces.The Israeli Navy continues to fire missiles , targeting facilities and buildings along the entire Gaza shoreline . <p> Victims:52more people have been killedwithin the past 48 hours , bringing the total number killed in Gaza since 7 Octoberto at least44,664 . Another 142have been wounded , bringing that total to 105,976 . The daily average number of men , women and children killed in Gaza is at least 104 ; that of those injured is now more than 248 . <p> Help us fuel the wave of resistance to the genocide in Gaza <p> Refuser Solidarity Network ( RSN ) <p> Mattan here . I am the executive director of Refuser Solidarity Network ( RSN ) and in 2017 I spent 110 days in prison because I refused to serve the Israeli occupation . Today I 'd like to tell you about how , over the past year , RSN was the only organisation that has helped launch a reservists ' refusal wave which can put an end to Israel 's war . We will continue to support their growing numbers and initiatives , but we need your help : join us and support the increasing needs of the growing number of refusers , who are ready to put a stop to this war . <p> Reservists are the backbone of the Israeli military : The Israeli army relies on reservists on all fronts , from ensuring its day-to-day functioning to flying the very warplanes that bomb Gaza . Israel 's war of extermination can not carry on the war without its active reserves , which is why refusal is such a powerful act of resistance . We understood that to end the genocide in Gaza , we needed to create the conditions that would normalise wartime refusal and make it easier for reservists to take this brave step . With this in mind , we helped establish Ani Siravti ( " I refused " in Hebrew ) , an initiative of older reserve refusers publishing video statements on social media that reaffirmed their past refusal and explained why they would do so again if called up for the assault on Gaza . <p> This effort exceeded our expectations.In May of this year , with the help of Ani Siravti , a group of over 40 reserve soldiers signed a public letter declaring their refusal of military service shortly before the invasion of Rafah , a large city in the Gaza Strip . The letter shook Israeli discourse as the first act of organised refusal to the Gaza War , but not the last . In August , with RSN 's active support , a core group of the letter 's signatories began organising a second letter , garnering 130 signatories threatening to refuse service unless a hostages-for-ceasefire deal that would end the war is implemented immediately . <p> When the letter was published in October , it caused a sensation in Israel , so much so that it even became an item on the war cabinet 's agenda . PM Netanyahu directly attacked the refusers and demanded a response from the army , which began calling the signatories to pressure them , unsuccessfully , to back down . To date , 178 soldiers have signed the letter , and the movement is only gaining momentum . Every day , more and more reservists are finding the courage to stand up , and it 's shaking the foundations of Israel 's war machine . We know that just as the refuser movement was one of the primary reasons for the withdrawal from Gaza in 2005 , they can put a stop to the atrocities once again . <p> With your support , RSN helped spark this movement , and then incubated it by providing media consultation , legal aid and capacity-building . This helped the initial refuser wave grow into a real political force , knocking on the doors of the country 's war cabinet meetings . Our work allows spontaneous courage to transform into real organising and coherent movement building , and is what eventually brought this refuser wave to the Israeli war cabinet 's agenda . <p> Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's threats directed against the refusers betray a recognition that refusal works . It 's our only viable path to end this war . <p> Israeli Army armed robbery:Ramallah -- 18:00 , Israelitroops , setting up a checkpoint near the Ein Siniya village roundabout , robbed a man , Adam Yasser Hattab , ofcash worth the equivalent of around$US3,800and took him prisoner . <p> Occupation settler pastoral sabotage:Tubas -- 08:15 , Israeli settlers prevented a shepherd , Muhammad Salah Al-Jamil , from grazing his sheep near his home in the al-Farisiya area of the North Jordan Valley . <p> Occupation settler arson:Nablus -- 10:55 , Israeli settlers set fire to oneperson 's vehicle , on the outskirts of the village of al-Lubban . <p> Occupation settler agricultural sabotage:Salfit -- 14:25 , Israeli Occupation settlers invaded Yasuf village land and cut off branches from a number of olive trees . <p> Occupation settler land-grab:Jericho -- 14:55 , Israeli settlers seized around ten hectares of al-Jiftlik village land and plantedit with grapevines . <p> Occupation settler terrorism : Hebron -- morning , Occupation settlers threatened the home of a resident , Abu Nasser Al-Azzazmeh , in the Birin area , south of Bani Naim , and threatened to force out the occupants , in favour of seizure for the settlement . <p> Leslie Bravery is a Londoner with vivid World War Two memories of the Nazi blitz on his home town . In 1947/1948 His father explained to him what was happening to the Palestinians thus : " Any ideology or political movement that creates refugees in the process of realising its ambitions must be inhuman and should be opposed and condemned as unacceptable . " What followed confirmed this assessment of the Zionist entity a hundredfold . Now a retired flamenco guitarist , with a lifelong interest in the tragedy of what happened to the Palestinian people , he tries to publicise their plight . Because the daily injustices they suffer barely get a mention in the mainstream news media , Leslie edits/compiles a daily newsletter , In Occupied Palestine , for the Palestine Human Rights Campaign . These days , to preserve his sanity , he enjoys taking part in a drama group whenever possible ! 
@@118627028 <p> New Zealand 's international aid programme appears set for cutbacks , with a review concluding the Government should streamline the range of activities it funds . <p> Foreign affairs officials have told MPs that finding cost savings was not the motivation for the work , but exactly what the recommendations mean for the country 's aid budget remains to be seen . <p> The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade appeared before MPs on Thursday as part of Parliament 's scrutiny week , fielding questions about the country 's diplomatic relationships and foreign policy priorities . <h> read more <p> In July , Newsroom revealed Foreign Affairs Minister Winston Peters had commissioned a review of the country 's aid programme , following disappointment from NGOs about a lack of new funding in May 's Budget . <p> Bernadette Cavanagh , deputy secretary for the Pacific and development group , told MPs the review had found the ministry was " probably doing too many things " when it came to international aid . <p> " We have about 800 individual activities underway , and that 's actually quite hard to manage ... we 're probably maybe focused in too many different sectors , too many different places , and we probably are working through too many partners . " <p> Cavanagh said officials were now looking at how to consolidate the aid programme to ensure the Government was getting the greatest impact from its spending . <p> It would take some time to make changes given the need to complete work that was already underway . <p> " If we 're halfway through a programme , it would be really disruptive for our partner if we pull the plug now , but we are starting to need to do some signalling to say , ' Well actually going forward , this might not be a space that we 're going to invest in in the same way ' . " <p> Cavanagh said a more streamlined approach could help Pacific governments with whom New Zealand worked on aid projects , with an ' umbrella arrangement ' allowing them to shift resources into other priorities ( such as policing ) . <p> Asked whether the review had made any recommendations about the amount of money going towards the aid programme , and whether there was any intention to cut budgets , she said that had not been the purpose of the work . <p> " We were n't asked to look at the quantum at all : it was more , are we delivering against the Government 's priorities and are we delivering as effectively as we can ? " <p> One large unknown is whether the coalition will renew the $1.3 billion climate aid programme announced under the last Labour government , set to expire in 2025 . <p> The ministry 's chief executive Bede Corry said officials were in the middle of Budget discussions about " the future climate finance trajectory " , and were aware of the importance Pacific nations placed on such aid . <p> " There is a vanishingly small number of countries -- not even the Arab countries -- that are sanctioning Israel in the same way . That would not be effective . " <p> During the hearing , Corry also faced questions about New Zealand 's potential involvement in Pillar II of Aukus , related to advanced technologies . <p> Asked by Labour MP Phil Twyford whether there were other means of working on such technologies outside of Aukus , the chief executive responded : " The question presupposes conversations with the Aukus partners are more advanced than they actually are , because I do n't think we 've yet got to a point where we can make a comparative judgment . " <p> Corry likewise ducked questions about how involvement in Aukus could affect New Zealand 's relationships in the Pacific , saying talks were " at such a nascent stage " that it was not possible to measure the potential consequences . <p> " If we joined Aukus Pillar II , it would be to ensure that New Zealand 's defence capabilities were enhanced in ways that met our interests . That would be its purpose : how others have constructed its purposes in respect of other countries , including China , is not really for me to comment on . " <p> Separately , the ministry appeared to rule out any attempt to impose sanctions on Israel over the war in Gaza , in the way Parliament had done to Russia following its invasion of Ukraine . <p> Asked whether New Zealand had considered applying the same approach , deputy secretary for the Middle East Paula Wilson said it was " a very different situation " . <p> " We 're not talking about a sovereign territory and breaking of the UN charter -- it 's a very complex situation , obviously , in the Middle East . " <p> Wilson said sanctions were most effective when a large number of countries imposed them , as was the case with Russia . <p> " There is a vanishingly small number of countries -- not even the Arab countries -- that are sanctioning Israel in the same way . That would not be effective . " <p> Pleased to see my local council of nelson is voted for sanctions . As for our national government are they so in the pocket of the USA that they ca n't do the same . The situation is appalling and Israel has broken just about every rule of war , and is / has committed genocide. 
@@118649553 <h> Al Aqsa Provocation And The Media Game ' Israel Says ' <p> A few days ago I watched a recording from Al Jazeera of Earthrise Systems Change . The news banner at the bottom of the screen told this story : <p> " One person killed and at least five others injured in a car-ramming attack in central Tel Aviv . Medics say all victims in Tel Aviv attack are foreign tourists . Suspected attacker has been shot dead by Israeli Police . Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has mobilized Police and army reserves after Tel Aviv attack . Israeli police say attacker tried to run over people on a busy promenade in central Tel Aviv . Two Israeli women were earlier killed in a shooting in the Jordan Valley area of the occupied West Bank . Israel carried out strikes on Gaza and Lebanese port city of Tyre early Friday morning . There is increased tension after Israeli forces stormed Al Aqsa Mosque in Occupied East Jerusalem twice on Wednesday " . And , in the preceding news bulletin : " Israel 's Iron Dome intercepts rockets from Gaza " and " airstrikes on Tyre , Lebanon in response to the barrage of rockets from Hamas " . <p> The recording was from live TV at 8:30am on Saturday8 April 2023 ; that 's six months before the Hamas attack which triggered the present ongoing trashing of Gaza by the Israel Defence Force . ( Nearly 45,000 Gazans are known to have been killed by the IDF , many other unverified deaths , and many other excess deaths due to illness , injury and inadequate nutrition . The big unknown is the number of Gazans presently alive in Gaza . I would be surprised if it 's as many as two million . ) <p> Advertisement - scroll to continue reading <p> After 7 October 2024 , the Israelis authorities instructed the western mainstream media to treat the Hamas attack as a blue-sky event , something perpetrated ' out of the blue ' by people -- people who were " terrorists " because they were terrorists ; aka " human animals " . The " liberal " western press obliged . When Benjamin Netanyahu said ' jump ' , the media moguls effectively said ' how high ? ' Since then , like Groundhog Day , media copywriters have been playing the game ' Israel says ' . <p> Israel demands that western audiences take into account 4,000 years of history to understand its position as the putative ' tangata whenua ' of the Southern Levant . But it will not countenance the people of Gaza or Eastern Jerusalem having even a year of their history being allowed as evidence of understanding ' Why ? ' . <p> The key point from the second paragraph quotation is that various relatively small tragedies ( too small to make it as more than a byline in the western press ) -- perpetrated by both civilians and military on civilians and military -- arose from a cynical police/military operation on one of Islam 's most holy sites , the Al Aqsa Mosque on East Jerusalem 's Temple Mount , aka Haram al-Sharif . <p> These provocative attacks ' wind-up ' Muslims -- especially Palestinian Muslims -- understandably ; indeed , that would appear to be the intent of ' mosque-storming ' in and around Israel . And Hamas -- a resistance ( and service-providing ) organisation in Apartheid Israel/Palestine -- which may be compared to the ANC in Apartheid South Africa -- feel obligated to ' fire rockets ' to provide a degree of optics saying to Israel and the World " we are still here " . <p> Recently I learned about the 1929 attack on Al Aqsa . In p.262 of Shlomo Sand 's 2008 book The Invention of the Jewish People -- a reasoned argument that Judaism is historically important as a religious faith , but not as an ethnicity -- Sand notes that the founders of the modern state of Israel that Palestinians were of the same ethnicity as the ' Jewish race ' , but that they pulled back sharply from that position after " the Arab uprising of 1929 " . " After the 1929 ' pogroms ' these Muslim peasants became complete strangers with astonishing speed . " <p> What were the these ' pogroms ' , a word mostly associated with anti-Jewish events in the western part of the pre-1917 Russian Empire ? In the Wikipedia entry 1929 Palestine riots , in British mandatory Palestine , the British " Commission found that the incident that contributed most to the outbreak was the Jewish demonstration ... at the Wailing Wall on 15 August 1929 " . The context was that " From the late nineteenth century onwards pictures and postcards often depicted a rebuilt Jewish Temple on the Temple Mount , sometimes next to Al-Aqsa Mosque or the Dome of the Rock and sometimes in their place my italics " and " Arab fears of Jewish immigrants ' not only as a menace to their livelihood but a possible overlord of the future ' . " <p> ( I will say no more about that regrettable set of tragedies , but will note my article from last Friday -- Israel , Syria , and the Map of the ' Millennium ' , Evening Report , 6 December 2024 -- which gives ongoing context to the fears of Zionists and Christian Zionists razing the Al Aqsa and Dome of the Rock mosques . I will also note that , in light of the weekend 's events in Syria , that the eschatological optics relating to an imminent Armageddon arising from Russian and Iranian presence in Syria have now diminished . ) <p> There have been many provocations relating to the sacred Al Aqsa Mosque . I 'll mention just one more , the Second Intifada of 2000 to 2005 began when the 1982 " Butcher of Beirut " ( Ariel Sharon ) " made a provocative visit to the Temple Mount " . <p> Provocations matter , and the provocateurs generally are fully aware of what they do . They start wars , little or big . <p> The Temple Mount site is sacred to Christians , Muslims and Jews . When in the eleventh century Muslim ' Infidels ' occupied the Jerusalem holy site , it precipitated the classic Crusades . Western Christians , highly offended by this occupation , raised an army -- the First Crusade -- which in 1099 ended with the murder by Crusaders of every Muslim occupier of that sacred ' Holy Land ' city . 88 years later , Muslims under Saladin in 1187 recaptured Jerusalem ; Saladin spared the city 's Christian inhabitants , in part to avoid harm being done to " the Dome of the Rock and the al-Aqsa Mosque " . " Upon the capture of Jerusalem , Saladin summoned the Jews and permitted them to resettle in the city " . <p> Judaism , Christianity and Islam are faiths with the same mythistorical ( a neologism utilised by Shlomo Sand ) point of origin . Much cousinly blood has been spilt in terms that appear ridiculous in hindsight , just as much blood has been spilt in internecine conflict between different groups of Christians and between different groups of Muslims . Jews at least seem to have hit-on each other less , although the Zionist present trope of " self-hating Jews " is a major source of provocative rhetoric in the current conflict . <p> It is the ethnicisation of ' peoples ' ( ethnobiological and pseudo-ethnobiological collectives -- ' nations ' in the nineteenth-century sense of that word -- as Shlomo Sand defined ' peoples ' ) that leads to racial supremacism and ethnic cleansing . That causes so much grief today , much of it under the guise of religious conflict . So it was , also , in the first half of the twentieth century . <p> So much ethno-violence results from wilful provocation . And it happens when our institutions -- including the mainstream television networks -- look the other way . Playing ' Israel Says ' is not ethical journalism . <p> I just rewatched DDN 's The Truth About October 7 Exposed ( Youtube ) , which draws on the work of Al Jazeera 's Investigative Unit . Eleven minutes in , it notes " the response to our film on October 7 has been interesting . The response has not been to criticize and pick apart and say that we 've got it wrong . They did n't do that at all . What they do is simply ignore you . " <p> The worst things happen when we , and especially our trusted institutions , choose to look the other way . When institutions succumb to narratives of the ' Israel says ' variety , they are professionally corrupt . We need contests of ideas , contested narratives , not a ' lay-down mis ? re ' . <p> ------------- <p> Keith Rankin ( keith at rankin dot nz ) , trained as an economic historian , is a retired lecturer in Economics and Statistics . He lives in Auckland , New Zealand . <p> Keith Rankin taught economics at Unitec in Mt Albert since 1999 . An economic historian by training , his research has included an analysis of labour supply in the Great Depression of the 1930s , and has included estimates of New Zealand 's GNP going back to the 1850s . <p> Keith believes that many of the economic issues that beguile us can not be understood by relying on the orthodox interpretations of our social science disciplines . Keith favours a critical approach that emphasises new perspectives rather than simply opposing those practices and policies that we do n't like . <p> Keith retired in 2020 and lives with his family in Glen Eden , Auckland . 
@@118649945 <h> MEDIAWATCH : Spinoff sinking , Maori TV bleeding and 14 Newspapers culled -- the media are dying and our democracy will be far worse for it <p> The entire media ecosystem is imploding and killing off Fourth Estate Journalism with it . <p> Spinoff is sinking , Maori TV announced the axing of its news room that seems like an enormous breach of their obligations while 14 Newspapers are being culled . <p> We will have news deserts and social media hate algorithms will be left to generate tsunamis of ignorance and hate in an ever increasing washing machine of polarisation . <p> This on top of TVNZ cut backs and the destruction of Newshub . <p> The legacy media based their revenue on ratings systems that were always more art than science . <p> - Sponsor Promotion - <p> The capital cost of a printer , a satellite or a radio frequency disappeared and far more critical analysis of viewer interaction with content demanded a new economic model , especially with Vulture Capitalists wanting to cover their debt and social media sucked away all the revenue . <p> Into this dystopian reality comes the power of the podcasts and the rise of a new news media filtered by their own ideologies . <p> We do n't trust the news any longer , but we trust the filter we view that news through now . <p> Facts are behind paywalls , the lies are free . <p> Imagine how little we would know of what was really going on in Gaza if we had relied on the mainstream media coverage ? <p> The people lost trust in capitalist media , because capitalist media had betrayed them . <p> They turned us from citizens into consumers . It 's never been a better time to buy a house in the NZ Herald world view because the real estate pimps are the biggest advertisers . <p> The intense loneliness that plagues so many lives has led to rabid hole doom scrolling that brainwashes people into MAGA Qanon anti-vaxxer hate cults . <p> This fracturing of realities mixed with social media ' facts ' will corrode the heart of democracy , which is why Public broadcasting matters so much . <p> There have to be new ideas from the State to enable and support a plurality of voices and production companies . <p> Pumping $10m into The Spinoff over a decade was n't the problem , the problem was that it was just limited to them and their chums . There are lots of important existing content that deserves the same level of taxpayer support because of the job they do in creating a media ecosystem for the Fourth Estate . <p> There are solutions to the problems we face , no one politically seems to have anything other than shrugging . <p> We need new regulations in media and new funding from NZ on Air and a social media campaign to point to that content . <p> There is currently no vision from any political party on this . <p> As the guard dogs of our democracy are euthanised , our democracy is at risk . <p> Increasingly having independent opinion in a mainstream media environment which mostly echo one another has become more important than ever , so if you value having an independent voice -- please donate here . 
@@118693485 <p> A terrorist attack in New Zealand remains a realistic possibility following an annual review of the National Terrorism Threat Level by the New Zealand Security Intelligence Service ( NZSIS ) . <p> The National Terrorism Threat Level remains at LOW , indicating that a terrorist attack is a realistic possibility . This follows an annual assessment by the Combined Threat Assessment Group ( CTAG ) , an inter-agency group hosted and led by the NZSIS . The assessment is based on a range of classified intelligence and publicly available information . <p> " It 's important to understand that keeping the National Terrorism Threat Level at LOW indicates an attack is a realistic possibility amid what is a deteriorating global security environment , " Director-General of Security Andrew Hampton said . <p> " Evolving global and domestic trends will continue to drive extremist sentiment in New Zealand over the next 12 months . There is an increasingly diverse range of violent extremist narratives being expressed globally and New Zealanders can quickly connect to these narratives through online networks . <p> " Conflicts and acts of extreme violence overseas have an impact on New Zealand 's threat environment , sometimes compounding with domestic issues . The vast majority of individuals engaged in these issues will express their views peacefully and lawfully . Yet a small number of individuals may see violence as a legitimate way to further their cause . The pathway to radicalisation and potential violence is becoming shorter , and these individuals may act unpredictably . This means the threat environment could change with little warning . <p> Advertisement - scroll to continue reading <p> " Online networks enable people to connect without knowing each other 's real identities and motivations . The NZSIS is particularly concerned about the impact of the online environment on young people , who are being exposed to and influenced by violent extremism in ways we have n't seen before . " <p> Last week the NZSIS joined the Five Eyes security intelligence and law enforcement agencies in publishing a joint paper to highlight a shared concern about the radicalisation of young people . The paper includes two New Zealand case studies where threats were identified and intervention has occurred . <p> " The volume and accessibility of extremist views online is worrying . The NZSIS is highly aware of the impact this is having on some communities , such as those affected by conflicts in the Middle East . The sense of concern in these communities is real and understandable . <p> " The known individuals of concern in New Zealand mostly adhere to well recognised categories of violent extremist aligned ideologies . However , there is now a growing threat from individuals embracing a fluid mix of ideologies , conspiracy theories and highly personalised grievances , who are fixated on violence , and whose intentions are difficult to assess . <p> " The most plausible form of violent extremist attack in New Zealand continues to be someone who acts alone and is either self-radicalised or inspired by like-minded individuals , using readily available weapons . Attacks are likely to occur with little to no warning , undertaken by individuals who may have taken steps to avoid detection . <p> " The most fundamental mission of the NZSIS is the safety of New Zealand and New Zealanders . We have continued to build our ability to respond to this evolving threat environment , including through stronger collaboration with domestic and international partners , increased online capabilities and broad community engagement . <p> " National security is not something the NZSIS can exclusively own or solve . Everyone has a part to play by reporting issues of concern when they see them . This can be done directly to the NZSIS , or to our partners at New Zealand Police , who we work closely with to detect and disrupt threats , " Mr Hampton said . <p> The NZSIS has a range of public resources to help with this , including the Know the Signs guide to identifying the signs of violent extremism . This details behaviours and activities by individuals which could be concerning , and how to report them . <p> The 2024 NZSIS Security Threat Environment report also has more information about the national security threats facing New Zealand , including case studies and a range of practical advice . <p> Notes : <p> i . The National Terrorism Threat Level has been at LOW since November 2022 . It was raised from LOW to HIGH immediately following the terrorist attacks on Christchurch masjidian in March 2019 , and revised to MEDIUM a month after the attacks . <p> ii . The National Terrorism Threat Level is continually assessed by the Combined Threat Assessment Group ( CTAG ) and can change at any time in response to global and domestic events and intelligence reporting . It is also subject to an annual review . <p> iii . The National Terrorism Threat Level informs relevant government agencies about the likelihood of a terrorist attack in New Zealand to ensure that they are appropriately placed to mitigate any risks . <p> iv . Assessment of the National Terrorism Threat Level is in consultation with agencies including New Zealand Security Intelligence Service , Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet , New Zealand Police , Department of Corrections , New Zealand Defence Force , and Ministry of Business , Innovation and Employment . <p> Further information about CTAG can be found here : https : **39;958;TOOLONG ... Questions and Answers -- New Zealand Terrorism Threat Level <p> How often is the National Terrorism Threat Level assessed ? <p> The National Terrorism Threat Level is formally reviewed annually , but can change at any time based on the current intelligence picture . It considers the domestic terrorism context and relevant international threat factors , taking into account both classified intelligence and open source information . <p> Who decides the National Terrorism Threat Level ? <p> The New Zealand National Terrorism Threat Level is set by the Director-General of Security on advice from the Combined Threat Assessment Group ( CTAG ) , an inter-agency group hosted and led by the NZSIS . Partner agencies in the national security sector are consulted on the assessment . <p> Why have ongoing global conflicts like the Middle East not changed the National Terrorism Threat Level ? <p> Enduring conflicts across the Middle East continue to adversely affect the global threat environment , however this has not , to date , had a significant effect on New Zealand 's overall domestic violent extremism threat environment . In New Zealand , concerns aligned to these conflicts have typically been voiced through lawful protest , and we have not seen escalation to physical acts of violent extremism . <p> The full effect of the widening Israel/Gaza conflict on the domestic threat environment is unlikely to be understood for some time . Over the next 12 months , we expect to see a continuation of anti-Semitic and Islamophobic narratives in New Zealand . <p> What does LOW mean in terms of the probability of an attack occurring ? <p> LOW means a terrorist attack is assessed as a realistic possibility . " Realistic possibility " has a likelihood of between 25-50% . <p> Why is our threat level not the same as countries like Australia and the United Kingdom ? <p> Some countries have changed their domestic threat levels . While this is done in the context of the evolving global threat picture , these decisions reflect specific issues and events within these countries . <p> Each country also uses its own language to describe its threat level . Next year CTAG intends to review the language and definitions it uses to identify opportunities for closer alignment with key partners . <h> Are you licensed for Scoop ? <p> Scoop is free for personal use , but you 'll need a licence for work use . This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall . Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month , and start using Scoop like a Pro . 
@@118693537 <p> On 10 December 1948 , the United Nations General Assembly proclaimed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights ( UDHR ) as a common standard of achievement for all peoples and all nations . Following this proclamation , the 10th of December of every year became recognized as International Human Rights Day . <p> This International Human Rights Day reminds us of the enormous efforts still required to make human rights a reality for all . Human rights education will enables our people to be better informed of international perspectives on human rights and better appreciate the value of human life . <p> On this day , we celebrate 76th year of the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights . This document reflects humanity 's aspirations for a future of prosperity , dignity and peaceful coexistence . It heralds the advent of a world in which human beings shall enjoy freedom from intimidation , aggression , terrorism , heinous attacks and collective punishment . This is the highest aspiration of the people in the information age . <p> Today , people all over the world are taking a stand against US coercive measures towards Venezuela and its people . As part of a global day of action , the Hugo Chavez International Foundation for Peace , Friendship and Solidarity ( HCIF-PFS ) calls on Washington and its allies to respect the inherent rights , freedom and dignity of the people of Venezuela . <p> US coercive measures through unilateral sanctions , vilification and undeclared economic war and malicious propaganda in the corporate media , have created untold sufferings for the ordinary Venezuelan person . And Through the practice of red-tagging of progressive leaders , the US has misrepresented the character and illuminating personality of constitutional President Nicolas Maduro as a threat to American economic and other ill-fated interests in Venezuela . <p> Advertisement - scroll to continue reading <p> The recent acceleration of the anti-Venezuelan aggressive rhetoric and attempt to meddle in the internal matters of the Latin American nation have worsen the existing coercive environment -- preparing the ground for possible outside military intervention , to overthrow the democratically-elected government , assassinate Venezuelan leaders and unleash terror on the population . We witnessed this in Libya in 2011 with the brutal murder of Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi and over one and half million Africans in the North African nation killed . <p> The US meddling mentality in Venezuela must stop , to save the Latin American nation from becoming another Libya . Venezuela is friendly to Africa and other oppressed region of the world , including Palestine . We demand that the US respect the sovereignty , national independence and territorial integrity of Venezuela . In 2013 , President Hugo Chavez was killed for defending the rights , freedom and dignity of the Venezuelan people . And now the gauntlet has been pointed again towards destabilising Venezuela , using precisely cheap pawns like Brazil and other willing neighbouring States to effect regime change in Caracas . <p> It must be stated here that on 28th July , 2024 the good , peaceful and freedom-people of Venezuela participated in a presidential election that was declared by god-fearing people as free , fair , inclusive and transparent . Prior to that exercise , the ominous signs of an election that was predetermined by Washington to favour the opposition were already clear . This led to the competent authorities in Caracas to immediately take the necessary action to draw the attention of the electoral umpire and the whole world to know . <p> Attempt to draw Argentina into US destabilization and regime change agenda in Venezuela was also exposed . Besides being indicted for providing launching pads for spurious attacks on Venezuela , Argentina has also been accused of joining Lula Brazil to push US regime change agenda in Caracas . It was alleged also that Argentina lavishly spent a hundred million dollars ( US$100 , 000 , 000. ) stashed away from poor Argentinean people to help subvert the 28th July , 2024 election processes in Venezuela . <p> The Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that we all people have the right to " a decent standard of living , including food , clothing , housing , medical care and social services . " Human rights are rights inherent to all human beings , regardless of race , sex , nationality , ethnicity , language , religion , or any other status . Human rights include the right to life and liberty , freedom from slavery and torture , freedom of opinion and expression , the right to work and education , and many more . Everyone is entitled to these rights , without discrimination . It is important to note that these rights have been considered more and more by international human rights mechanisms . <p> The rights of human dignity , equality and freedom are embedded and preserved in the Venezuelan Constitution , which is the cornerstone of that country 's constitutional and representative democracy . These include the right to citizenship and security , freedom of assembly , association , belief and opinion , and expression , the right to demonstrate , picket and petition , freedom from forced labour , servitude and slavery , the right to privacy and to exercise political rights , rights when arrested , detained and accused , and the right to freedom of movement . <p> The competent authorities in Caracas , despite attacks by the US and its allies , have made notable progress in mainstreaming the promotion and protection of human rights , freedom and dignity . This includes the recognition of the rights of refugees from war-torn Africa and the Middle-east . <p> The people of Venezuela are , and have been , among the world 's most thoughtful , determined and courageous defenders of human rights . The tension between championing and disregarding human rights surfaces because the rights framework is deeply flawed as it seeks to impose Western values on others . Applying this in Venezuela and other parts of the world is unjust , unfair and unacceptable because it 's often inconsistent ; and makes mockery of human rights , freedom and dignity of people . This has rendered UDHR principles epileptic as they have failed to secure a more humane world . <p> Other critics of UDHR points that states hypocritically talk of human rights when there is an agenda to intervene in another state , ostensibly to defend civilian population against what they perceived as government attacks . These self-appointed world policemen sometimes disregard or even engage in rights abuses against their own people and other nationalities . For instance , the US government has been complicit in human rights abuses in Gaza , which now has reached a horrific scale , with a whole population of Palestinian Arab people displaced , or traumatised . <p> For Venezuela , the human rights situation after the demise of the former right wing fascist government has improved in all areas through development , economic growth , investment , tourism , declining poverty rates , rising living standards , employment , growth of the media , organisations , associations and political parties . Truly , the situation of human rights in Venezuela is not bad . Some countries are experiencing civil war , ethnic , cultural and religious conflicts and even massacres . Other countries have people fleeing war . Some have lost their national dignity to occupation foreign forces , etc . So , if one looks at the regional and international context and history , the human rights environment in Venezuela is far better . <p> President Nicolas Maduro is on record to be working tirelessly towards consolidating and reinforcing democracy in the Venezuelan national body politics and has expressed many times the personal and national satisfaction felt in his patriotic and renewed commitment to make Venezuela a peaceful and happy society . Contrary to its adversaries , the government of Venezuela has been able to establish a complete modern democratic system . So the re-election victory of constitutional President Maduro should and must be seen here as dividends of good governance , as well as a stronger and efficient political arrangement . <p> There is no gain saying the fact that the Venezuelan people appreciate the work of their elected leaders . Thanks to the vision guiding the Bolivarian Project . The Bolivarian Revolution teaches that every Venezuelan person has the right to exercise his or her democratic freedom in a free , inclusive and fair elections of officials entrusted not only with the duty of governance but also charged with the higher responsibility of working for a better future for the Venezuela nation . In particular , the Bolivarian Revolution teaches also that every citizen of Venezuela has the right to hold and express their views as to the future direction of their country . <p> On Human Rights Day , volunteers of the Hugo Chavez International Foundation for Peace , Friendship and Solidarity call on the US to respect the demands and aspirations of the Venezuelan people . We further call on the US to respect the Constitution of Venezuela , and end the targeting of the competent authorities in Caracas . <p> US collective punishment and regime change policy have had detrimental impact on Venezuelan society , creating fear , pains , suffering and traumas for the Venezuelan people . For a peaceful co-existence , it is crucial that the US abandon its hatreds for the people of Venezuela . We call on Washington to have a sober reflection of its regime change policy in Venezuela , and rededicate itself to upholding the human rights and democratic values of others , as enshrined in the UDHR and core human rights conventions . <p> Happy Human Rights Day to all ! Let us celebrate together the spirit of human rights , freedom and dignity , and cherish the principles enshrined in the UDHR . <p> God bless Venezuela ! <p> Long live Venezuela ! ! <p> Sender:Alimamy Bakarr SankohPresident of the Governing Council and International Executive DirectorThe Hugo Chavez International Foundation for Peace , friendship and Solidarity ( HCIF-PFS ) For and onbehalf of volunteers of the Hugo Chavez International Foundation for Peace , friendship and Solidarity ( HCIF-PFS ) <h> Are you licensed for Scoop ? <p> Scoop is free for personal use , but you 'll need a licence for work use . This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall . Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month , and start using Scoop like a Pro . 
@@118693900 <h> No humanitarian visas for Palestinians but plenty of rest and recreation for genocidal Israeli soldiers in New Zealand <p> While the government refuses to provide humanitarian visas for Palestinians with family in New Zealand , there is an increasing number of Israelis likely to be complicit in war crimes freely entering Aotearoa as visitors . <p> Just released official Statistics Department figures show the number of Israelis who entered Aotearoa this past November ( 621 ) is more than twice the number of Israelis who came into the country in November last year ( 230 ) . <p> The Palestine Solidarity Network Aotearoa says many if not most of these ' tourists ' are actively serving in the Israeli Defence Force 's genocidal attacks on Gaza and Lebanon . <p> " The United Nations , the International Court of Justice , and most recently Amnesty International , have variously described the Israeli attack on Gaza as genocide . " <p> PSNA National Chair John Minto says the New Zealand government has no idea how many Israeli ' tourists ' are doing military service , because they are not required to provide that information as they arrive . <p> - Sponsor Promotion - <p> " Genocide duty in the Israeli armed forces is compulsory for nearly all Israelis , so there will be a high proportion of active or reservist soldiers coming to Aotearoa with blood on their hands . " <p> Service in the IDF for 32 months is compulsory for nearly all Israeli men when they reach 18 and women are required to serve 24 months . <p> Members of Israel 's ultra-Orthodox community were included in the conscription from June after previously being exempt . <p> After the initial period , Israelis must be available as reservists until age 40 . <p> John Minto says the New Zealand government must urgently deny entry to any Israelis who are serving or have served in the IDF . <p> " Combat reservists are now on average serving four months in the IDF . So it 's not just a narrow younger age group . " <p> The New Zealand government has a list of extremist Israeli settlers who it bans from entering Aotearoa , but Minto says this list is hopelessly inadequate . <p> " The International Court of Justice has obligated countries to prevent Israeli genocide and work to end Israeli occupation of Palestinian Territory . " <p> " When our border immigration officials are not required to even ask if an Israeli is serving in the military , or is an illegal settler , then our government is ignoring both of its obligations . " <p> " The soldiers perpetrating this genocide might pretend to be innocent thrill-seeking tourists when they visit here , but they are directly responsible for operating occupation , apartheid , genocide and ethnic cleansing . " <p> Department of Statistics <p> The number of Israelis who have entered New Zealand by month <p> Entrants since September 2023 , i.e. from 01 September 2023 to 24 November 2024 . Passport Issuer Country <p> Arrival Month <p> Number of Israeli Arrivals <p> Israel <p> Sep-23 <p> 372 <p> Israel <p> Oct-23 <p> 267 <p> Israel <p> Nov-23 <p> 230 <p> Israel <p> Dec-23 <p> 385 <p> Israel <p> Jan-24 <p> 512 <p> Israel <p> Feb-24 <p> 508 <p> Israel <p> Mar-24 <p> 396 <p> Israel <p> Apr-24 <p> 279 <p> Israel <p> May-24 <p> 141 <p> Israel <p> Jun-24 <p> 95 <p> Israel <p> Jul-24 <p> 232 <p> Israel <p> Aug-24 <p> 176 <p> Israel <p> Sep-24 <p> 362 <p> Israel <p> Oct-24 <p> 497 <p> Israel <p> Nov-24 <p> 621 <p> 1 ) The data is based on the information in INZ 's AMS system . <p> 2 ) There are occasions that an Israeli passport holder has entered New Zealand multiple times on different dates during the specified period . The data is based on the number of times Israeli passport holders have entered New Zealand , not the number of individuals who have entered . <p> 3 ) The data is based on passengers who used their ' Israel ' passport to enter New Zealand . <h> 4 COMMENTS <p> Why not ask every Muslim entering NZ " Are you , or have you previously , been part of an Islamic terrorists group ? " I 'm pretty sure that would have you ' outraged ' Mr Minto as that is assuming EVERY Muslim is a terrorist , but it 's ok for you to demand every Israeli be asked what army involvement they did ( considering it 's compulsory ) Let 's face it , you just want ALL visitors from Israel to be banned ! ? Never gon na happen , let them enjoy NZ and relax , as a lovely break they deserve from being attacked by their neighbours . <p> John -- Many Gazans use Israeli Passports since Hamas forced them to give up their Palestinian Authority Passports ... so they , Gazans , are counted as Israeli visitors to NZ ... West Bank residents still use the Palestinian Authority Passport ... 
@@118693946 <h> Anti-Semitism denied following travel warning for Jews <p> Jews around the world are being warned about rising anti-Semitism in Australia as the foreign minister cautions against using attacks for political gain . <p> Jews or Israelis considering travelling to Australia have been told to " exercise extreme caution " by a Jewish human rights organisation following a likely terror attack against a Melbourne synagogue . <p> The travel advisory is " a result of the failure of Australian authorities to stand up against persistent demonisation , harassment and violence against Jews and Jewish institutions in Australia " , the Simon Wiesenthal Center declared . <p> The travel warning was concerning and reflected that anti-Semitism had been at an unacceptable level , Australia 's special envoy to combat anti-Semitism Jillian Segal said . <p> Israel itself has a level two threat on Australia advising travellers to increase precautionary measures since the fire at the Adass Israel Synagogue on Friday . <p> People come to Australia " because we are a country that is peaceful , we are a country that respects people of different faith " , Prime Minister Anthony Albanese said . <p> " Australia is not a country that will tolerate such an act , " he said as he visited the synagogue on Tuesday . <p> Anthony Albanese visits the Adass Israel Synagogue after it was firebombed in Melbourne . ( Joel Carrett/AAP PHOTOS ) <p> Many in Australia 's Jewish community are feeling scared and unsafe and there has been a rise in anti-Semitism , Foreign Minister Penny Wong said . <p> " It 's very important that we say very clearly this is unacceptable , no one in this country should be frightened of who they are , " she told reporters in Perth . <p> But people needed to respectfully disagree on points of difference and avoid " misrepresenting views and exaggerating differences " to stop the conflict in the Middle East spurring friction in Australia , Senator Wong said . <p> It was n't anti-Semitic to say Israel needed to comply with international law , as all countries do , or call for children and other civilians to be protected in Gaza , she said . <p> Burned books and papers after a firebombing at the Adass Israel Synagogue in Melbourne . ( Yumi Rosenbaum/AAP PHOTOS ) <p> The internationally accepted definition of anti-Semitism " makes it clear that criticism of Israel in a form that you would normally criticise another country , like its policies , is fine " , Ms Segal said . <p> " But criticism of Israel , which damns it as a country that should be abolished , that should no longer exist , that all the Jews should disappear - that is anti-Semitic . " <p> It was the same definition Senator Wong referenced in a major foreign policy speech as both called for anti-Semitism to transcend politics and for the community to come together after the synagogue attack . <p> Independent senator Fatima Payman questioned whether there was a double standard over incidents of anti-Semitism and Islamophobia . <p> Islamophobia Register Australia also hit out against a Liberal senator calling incidents of Islamophobia " fictitious " , saying it was escalating to unprecedented levels and posed a serious threat to the safety of Muslims . <p> There had been a 600 per cent increase in reported Islamophobic incidents over the past year , it said . 
@@118738106 <h> Israeli minister sees chance for Gaza hostage release deal <h> Share this article <p> Relatives of victims of the October 7 attacks visit an installation bearing the photos of their loved ones who were killed or kidnapped during the attacks , at the site of the Nova festival , in Re'im , southern Israel . Photo / AFP <p> Relatives of victims of the October 7 attacks visit an installation bearing the photos of their loved ones who were killed or kidnapped during the attacks , at the site of the Nova festival , in Re'im , southern Israel . Photo / AFP <p> Israeli Defence Minister Israel Katz has told his US counterpart Lloyd Austin there is " currently a chance " for a deal to release the remaining hostages held in Gaza for more than 14 months . <p> " There is currently a chance for a new deal , " Katz told Austin in a phone call , according to a statement from the office of the US Secretary of Defence . <p> " We are hoping for the release of all the hostages , including US citizens , " he said . <p> The US , with Egypt and Qatar , has been unsuccessfully attempting to mediate a ceasefire and hostage release deal between Israel and the Palestinian group Hamas for more than a year . <p> Palestinian militants took 251 people hostage during Hamas ' surprise attack on October 7 , 2023 . A total of 96 remain in Gaza , including 34 the Israeli military has confirmed are dead . <p> " If Israel agrees to the Egyptian proposal , I think the exchange deal will be ready for implementation , " the source said . <p> Another upbeat assessment came from Qatar , which said the election of Donald Trump as the next US President had created new " momentum " for negotiations . <p> At the same time , a source close to the Hamas delegation said that Turkey , as well as Egypt and Qatar , had been " making commendable efforts to stop the war " , and a new round of talks could begin soon . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu also hinted at potential progress , telling the families of hostages that Israel 's military successes against Hezbollah and Hamas would facilitate negotiations for their release . <p> Protesters , including relatives of the hostages , have repeatedly called for a deal to free the captives and accuse Netanyahu of prolonging the war for political purposes . <p> The unprecedented October 7 attack resulted in the deaths of 1208 people , mostly civilians , according to an AFP tally based on official figures . <p> Israel 's retaliatory military campaign in Gaza has killed at least 44,805 people , a majority of civilians , according to figures from the Hamas-run territory 's health ministry which the UN considers reliable . <p> Seven individuals with US citizenship remain in Gaza , with four confirmed dead . Last week , the Israeli military notified the family of US-Israeli soldier Omer Neutra that he was killed on October 7 and his body held in Gaza . 
@@118738130 <h> Share this article <p> After nine elections and a quarter-century at the table , deputy chairman Neil Walker ( left ) decided TRC is n't about politics and jumped in to quash debate about a submission on the Treaty Principles Bill that his boss , chairwoman Charlotte Littlewood , had requested from staff . Photo / Taranaki Regional Council <p> After nine elections and a quarter-century at the table , deputy chairman Neil Walker ( left ) decided TRC is n't about politics and jumped in to quash debate about a submission on the Treaty Principles Bill that his boss , chairwoman Charlotte Littlewood , had requested from staff . Photo / Taranaki Regional Council <p> Taranaki councillors shut down discussion on the Treaty Principles Bill , citing it as too divisive . <p> Deputy chairman Neil Walker said the council should not send political messages , focusing on environmental regulation . <p> Councillor Bonita Bigham was denied the chance to speak , as the submission was silenced . <p> Taranaki councillors have shut down a discussion on the Treaty Principles Bill , despite the legislation 's cheerleader saying he wants everyone to read and debate it . <p> The bill wants new interpretations of Te Tiriti o Waitangi to replace principles that grew out of 50 years of Treaty debate and court cases . <p> The Treaty Principles Bill creator , Act Party leader David Seymour , repeatedly pleads for people to read it and debate it . <p> " I just think it 's too divisive . I think it 's not an appropriate thing , so therefore I 'm just saying at this stage we do n't want to make a submission . " <p> The Government bill is currently attracting submissions ahead of a six-month select committee public hearing . <p> At the request of TRC chairwoman Charlotte Littlewood , council officers had written a submission for councillors to debate . <p> But after nine election wins and a quarter of a century at the council table , ever vocal for the farmers ' lobby on all sorts of legislation , councillor Neil Walker has decided TRC is not about politics . <p> Act leader David Seymour is behind the controversial Treaty Principles Bill that has passed its first - and likely only - reading in Parliament . <p> " I think personally that the regional council is not a political body , and I certainly do n't want to be sitting here time and time again , sending the Government political messages about various things . <p> " We 're essentially an environmental council and a statutory body doing regulation . We are not doing all of these kind of things , lecturing the Parliament on everything . " <p> TRC has sent multiple submissions to the current Government and dozens more to the previous Labour-led regime . <p> Littlewood tried to open debate , noting Maori ward councillor Bonita Bigham and veteran David Lean already had their hands up to speak . <p> But deputy chairman Walker pulled rank before anyone else could have a say . <p> " Having had a bit of a consultation with people " he 'd determined it was too hot a potato . <p> " You all know this , this is a very divided matter in Taranaki . I believe at this stage we should not take sides as we truly represent the people of Taranaki . We should let Parliament sort their own affairs . <p> " We want to work co-operatively with all the people of Taranaki and to take any side is unhelpful . " <p> Sixteen-year regional councillor Donald McIntyre moved to not send the submission , nor even discuss it , and his co-veteran Walker seconded the motion . <p> After almost a quarter of an hour of discussion about the rules , but none about Te Tiriti , the council voted . <p> But Holdom personally refused the debate bid , saying communities from both sides of the Gaza war lived in New Plymouth and the district council should n't take sides . <p> The defeated TRC submission said the Treaty Principles Bill " will not bring any added value to the relationships we have or the practical work that we need to do in partnership with tangata whenua " . <p> " Indeed , there is a very real danger that it will undermine existing relationships and stymie the good work being done . " <p> The submission said the Treaty was central to council work : for example section 8 of the Resource Management Act requires the principles of te Tiriti be taken into account . <p> " As a creature of statute , the council is dependent on effective and efficient legislation ... to serve its community well . <p> " Council does not believe that the bill meets either of these tests and is concerned that a deterioration in Crown-Maori relations will ultimately lead to poorer legislation , worse community outcomes and make council 's ability to do its work more challenging . " <p> " For one party to unilaterally seek to change the Treaty 's interpretation and application without proper engagement with the other is a breach of that agreement and the high level of trust that needs to exist in such relationships . " <p> It pointed out the Waitangi Tribunal had noted that Seymour 's new principles " do not accord with existing jurisprudence on the Treaty principles , or the historical circumstances of the text and spirit of the Treaty/te Tiriti " . <p> And the council submission worried the bill could be harmful to Crown-Maori relations . <p> " The bill risks fostering greater division and disorder . As noted by the Waitangi Tribunal , this will bring significant prejudicial impacts on Maori that ' can not be overstated ' . " 
@@118738176 <h> Dismay over shelving of Israel boycott debate <p> University of Otago staff ( from left ) Dr David Jenkins , Dr Olivier Jutel , Dr Abbi Virens , Professor Richard Jackson and Dr Peyton Bond with an open letter they sent to the university in May , asking it to divest from economic ties to Israel . FILE PHOTO : STEPHEN JAQUIERY <p> A group of University of Otago academics say they were left feeling humiliated when the university council shelved debate on whether to financially boycott the state of Israel . <p> Politics department lecturer Dr David Jenkins said he was going to present a motion in the public forum asking the university to " divest from corporations that are complicit in Israel 's violations of Palestinian human rights and breaches of international humanitarian law " and end " any existing contracts with these companies and pledge not to enter into new agreements with them " . <p> However , before he could speak to the motion , the council decided to shelve it until a report by the university 's senate on " institutional neutrality " was completed . <p> It then moved into public excluded . <p> " I do n't know if there were crossed wires , but it felt like they were trying to humiliate us in some respect . <p> " They made us sit through all their turgid administrative procedures , none of which we had any interest in ; quite the contrary , in fact . <p> " We were asked to leave as soon as anything emerged with which we did have an interest , so it was a very strange experience . " <p> Dr Jenkins said he and others had worked on a similar motion for the university senate , which had the support of more than 300 academic staff . <p> Initially , the motion also called for an " academic boycott " of Israel , but this proved contentious even with the academics who supported divestment of assets related to Israel . <p> " The frustrating thing is we do n't even feel like we 're at the door that we need to be knocking at . <p> " I do n't know if there were crossed wires , but it felt like they were trying to humiliate us in some respect " -- University of Otago politics lecturer Dr David Jenkins <p> " The institutions are set up , it would seem , to block these kinds of initiatives . <p> " There 's no guidance on how to put these sorts of motions forward . You have to find out everything yourself . " <p> Media studies and communications lecturer Dr Olivier Jutel , who also assisted with the motion , said part of the issue was the fact the university did not seem to want to investigate whether it had any investments associated with Israel . <p> " They have a stance that they do n't to ' the best of their knowledge ' , but they also do n't seem to want to investigate it . " <p> A spokeswoman for the university said the council noted a similar motion had been put to the university senate which had agreed to pause consideration of that motion until the report of the working group on institutional neutrality had been completed and considered by the senate . <p> " The council agreed to await the working group 's report before considering the motion . <p> " The working group is progressing well and expects to present a report to both the senate and council early next year . " <p> Dr Jenkins said the idea of institutional neutrality did not sit well with him . <p> " The university council constantly falls back on this argument of institutional neutrality , which I guarantee you no-one had heard of before this issue was raised , because no-one threw it up when it was decided that the university was a Treaty-led institution . <p> " It did n't stop people coming out and condemning the Russian invasion of Ukraine . " <p> An August letter from vice-chancellor Grant Robertson in response to an open letter from academics said " it is impossible not to be moved by what is happening in Gaza " . <p> " As has been stated publicly on a number of occasions , to the best of our knowledge the university does not have any financial links with Israel . <p> " Many of us hold strong personal views on what is happening in Gaza . It is vital that as a university we provide an environment in which they can be expressed and respected . <p> " As an institution , moving beyond a position of neutrality may compromise the provision of this environment . " <p> In October , Mr Robertson said a pro-Palestine protest " crossed a line " from being a peaceful protest when some of the protesters entered the clocktower building . 
@@118738220 <h> Anti-Israel messages ' a hate crime ' - Aussie PM <p> A car was set alight and two properties spray painted with anti-Israel messages in Sydney just days after an arson attack at a synagogue in Melbourne which is being investigated as terrorism , Australian authorities said on Wednesday . <p> Prime Minister Anthony Albanese said the latest attack , the second targeting the Jewish community in the Sydney suburb in three weeks , was an " outrage " and he would be briefed on it soon by a new antisemitism task force . <p> " This is an attack on people because they happen to be Jewish , " Albanese told ABC Radio . <p> " The idea that we take a conflict overseas and bring it here is something that is quite contrary to what Australia was built on ... this is a hate crime , it 's as simple as that . " <p> The New South Wales state police said two people wearing face coverings and dark clothing were spotted near the area when the car caught fire in the eastern suburb of Woollahra , an area with a large Jewish population . <p> New South Wales Premier Chris Minns said the incident would be treated as " a wanton act of vandalism " , and offenders faced up to 10 years in jail . <p> " I do n't think there is any point in sugar coating it or trying to downplay it . This is n't just a random act of destruction , this was specifically designed to incite hate , " Minns said at a media briefing . <p> Australia has seen a rise in antisemitic and Islamophobic incidents since Israel retaliated against an attack by militant Palestinian group Hamas on October 7 , 2023 with an assault on Gaza that has left tens of thousands of people dead . <p> More than 2000 anti-Jewish incidents were reported by volunteer community groups and Jewish organisations between October 1 , 2023 and September 30 , 2024 , versus some 500 incidents in the same period a year ago , the Executive Council of Australian Jewry said in a report published this month . <p> The Australian Jewish Association said on Wednesday it had warned the government several times of possible violent attacks , which it chose to ignore . <p> " If the Albanese government can not protect Australians , they must seriously consider stepping down and allow someone else to do so , " the Australian Jewish Association said in a post on X. <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has also criticised the Australian government , saying the attack on the synagogue could not be separated from the " anti-Israel spirit " of some of its policies , including support of a recent UN motion backing a Palestinian state . <p> The Australian government has defended its record on curbing antisemitism. 
@@118738412 <p> Attacks:There are no safe places for the militarily-dominated population in Gaza , who find themselves subjected to airstrikes and other missile attackson buildings , homes and many essentialfacilities , as well as constant gunfire and invasions by Israeli forces.The Israeli Navy continues to fire missiles , targeting facilities and buildings along the entire Gaza shoreline . <p> Victims:28more people have been killedwithin the past 48 hours , bringing the total number killed in Gaza since 7 Octoberto at least44,786 . Another 54have been wounded , bringing that total to 106,188 . The daily average number of men , women and children killed in Gaza is at least 104 ; that of those injured is now more than 247 . <h> OCHA : <p> Lifesaving aid to besieged areas in North Gaza governorate has been largely blocked for the past 66 days ; recently , about 5,500 people were forcibly displaced from three schools in Beit Lahiya . <p> Fewer than 400 patients have been evacuated to receive lifesaving medical treatment outside of Gaza over the past seven months ; about 14,000 await approval to exit . <p> Only four UN-supported bakeries are currently operational across Gaza , all in Gaza city . <p> Twenty-one attacks on schools , mostly serving as shelters for internally displaced people , were documented in November . <p> An estimated 26,000 Palestinians have suffered life-changing injuries over the past 14 months ; persons with disabilities continue to disproportionately suffer from severe trauma , lack of rehabilitation services , and limited availability of assistive devices . <p> Humanitarian Developments <p> Israeli bombardment from the air , land and sea continues to be reported across the Gaza Strip , resulting in further civilian casualties , displacement , and destruction of civilian infrastructure . In the North Gaza governorate , the Israeli military has been carrying out a ground offensive since 6 October 2024 , with fighting reported between Israeli forces and Palestinian armed groups . Israeli forces have continued to impose a tightened siege on Beit Lahiya , Beit Hanoun and parts of Jabalya and humanitarian assistance has been largely denied for 66 days ( see data below ) , leaving between 65,000 and 75,000 people without access to food , water , electricity or reliable health care , as mass casualty incidents continue to be reported . Large-scale forced displacement from Beit Lahiya was reported over the past week , including 5,500 people forcibly displaced on 4 December from three schools in Beit Lahiya to Gaza city . <p> Between the afternoons of 3 and 10 December , according to the Ministry of Health ( MoH ) in Gaza , 284 Palestinians were killed and 734 were injured . Between 7 October 2023 and 10 December 2024 , at least 44,786 Palestinians were killed and 106,188 were injured , according to MoH in Gaza . <p> Between the afternoons of 3 and 10 December , four Israeli soldiers were killed in Gaza , according to the Israeli military . Between 7 October 2023 and 10 December 2024 , according to the Israeli military and official Israeli sources cited in the media , more than 1,584 Israelis and foreign nationals were killed , the majority on 7 October 2023 and its immediate aftermath . The figure includes 384 soldiers killed in Gaza or along the border in Israel since the beginning of the ground operation . In addition , 2,485 Israeli soldiers were reported injured since the beginning of the ground operation . According to the Israeli military , on 4 December , the body of an Israeli hostage was recovered from Gaza and returned to Israel . As of 4 December , it is estimated that 100 Israelis and foreign nationals remain captive in Gaza , including hostages who have been declared dead and whose bodies are withheld in Gaza . <p> On 4 December , an Israeli airstrike hit a makeshift tent encampment sheltering 21 families in the Al Mawasi area in Khan Younis . The strike , together with secondary explosions , which appear to have been caused by gas cylinders according to the UN Human Rights Office ( OHCHR ) in the OPT , destroyed all 21 tents and killed at least 23 Palestinians , including at least four children and two women -- one of them pregnant -- while seriously injuring others . A rapid assessment conducted by humanitarian actors found that the damage caused the displacement of about 110 people , who are now in need of urgent shelter , food , and water and sanitation assistance . This was the seventh attack on an IDP tent encampment in the past two weeks , OHCHR reported , altogether killing at least 34 Palestinians , including ten children and three women . Four of these attacks occurred in the area in Al Mawasi to which Israel has instructed Palestinians to go , killing at least 11 Palestinians including a woman who died with her two daughters , and four additional children . Medical Aid for Palestinians ( MAP ) reported that one of the burnt tents was sheltering a MAP staff member . No MAP staff were injured or killed in the incident . Commenting on the incident , MAP 's Gaza Director said that it " has proven once again that nowhere is safe in Gaza from Israeli military attacks . People there have been left in a constant state of fear and psychological distress , haunted by the fact that there is no place for them to shelter . " Moreover , SOS Children 's Villages International condemned the attack , which was adjacent to a temporary tent encampment accommodating 46 children under its care , noting that no staff or children were physically harmed . <p> The following are among other deadly incidents reported between 3 and 8 December : <p> On 3 December , at about 14:25 , six Palestinians were reportedly killed and at least ten others injured when the third floor of an UNRWA school was hit in Az Zaytoun neighbourhood , in southeastern Gaza city . According to the latest data from the United Nations Children 's Fund ( UNICEF ) and its partners , 19 out of 21 attacks on schools , which mostly serve as shelters for internally displaced people ( IDP ) , documented in November were in the North Gaza and Gaza governorates . An estimated 73 people were killed in these attacks , many of them children . <p> On 4 December , at about 18:45 , 25 Palestinians were reportedly killed and others injured when three houses were hit near An Nafaq Street in Gaza city . According to the Palestinian Civil Defense ( PCD ) , the three houses were destroyed . <p> On 5 December , at about 11:15 , seven Palestinians were reportedly killed when a house was hit behind Kamal Adwan Hospital in Beit Lahiya in North Gaza . <p> On 5 December , at about 15:15 , 15 Palestinians were reportedly killed and others injured when a house was hit in Beit Lahiya , in North Gaza . <p> On 6 December , at about 18:45 , 34 people , including at least six children and four women , were reportedly killed when a residential building was hit in Block C of An Nuseirat Refugee Camp , in Deir al Balah . <p> On 8 December , at about 15:20 , at least 11 Palestinians , including children and women , were reportedly killed , with several bodies recovered in pieces , when a house was hit in Al Bureij refugee camp in Deir al Balah . <p> On 8 December , at about 12:00 , ten Palestinians were reportedly killed and about 15 others injured when a group of people was hit near the municipality park in central Gaza city . <p> Attacks on health facilities across the Gaza Strip continue to be reported , particularly in North Gaza governorate , where hospitals are barely functioning amid severe supply shortages and ongoing hostilities . On four occasions between 3 and 7 December , Kamal Adwan Hospital in Beit Lahiya , which currently hosts 90 patients and 66 medical staff , was reportedly attacked by fire , bombs and shells , resulting in the killing of seven people including four medics and a child , the injury of at least three medical staff as well as patients and companions , and damage to water and fuel tanks and the oxygen station . According to MoH , the 16-year-old boy who was killed at the hospital 's entrance was in a wheelchair and on his way to the radiology department . On 6 December , Israeli tanks reportedly surrounded the hospital and ordered people to evacuate . The Indonesian Emergency Medical Team ( EMT ) , which had been deployed to the hospital by the World Health Organization ( WHO ) on 1 December following five access denials , was forced to evacuate as displaced people , caregivers , and many injured patients began fleeing the hospital and panic spread , according to the WHO Director-General , Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus . The WHO chief added that 33 people were killed just outside Kamal Adwan amid intense bombardment and hostilities near the hospital , which he described as one of the last lifelines for the people of North Gaza . Moreover , on four occasions between 2 and 8 December , the Indonesian Hospital in Beit Lahiya was attacked , resulting in the injury of three medical staff and six patients and damage to its electricity generator and water tanks . Also in North Gaza , the fifth floor and courtyard of Al Awda Hospital in Jabalya were reportedly hit on 3 December , with no casualties reported . <p> In response to the dire health situation in North Gaza , on 3 December , WHO completed a three-day mission during which it delivered to Kamal Adwan Hospital 10,000 litres of fuel , 200 food parcels from the World Food Programme ( WFP ) , blood units and medical supplies , and evacuated 23 patients to Al Shifa Hospital in Gaza city . WHO also delivered 24,000 litres of fuel and medical supplies to Al Shifa hospital for further distribution . On 6 December , ICRC delivered medical supplies to Al Awda Hospital in Beit Lahiya and evacuated 11 patients to Gaza city . <p> On 3 December , 11 cancer patients , all children , along with 20 companions were evacuated by WHO from the Gaza Strip to receive specialized medical treatment in Jordan . The following day , eight patients , along with 25 companions , were evacuated outside Gaza by WHO with the support of the European Commission ( ECHO ) under the European Union Civil Protection Mechanism . According to ECHO , with support from 10 European countries , 59 patients from Gaza , together with 143 relatives , have been evacuated to date to European hospitals . As of 6 December , according to WHO , 378 patients including 217 children have been exceptionally evacuated from Gaza abroad since early May 2024 , following the Israeli ground operation in Rafah and subsequent closure of Rafah crossing . Amid the collapse of Gaza 's health-care system and acute shortages of medical supplies and specialized care , at least 14,000 patients across Gaza are estimated to require life-saving medical evacuation . <p> " The levels of hunger , devastation and destruction in Gaza ... are now worse than ever before , " reported the WFP Palestine Country Director , Antoine Renard , on 5 December . Markets are empty , barely any food is coming in , and worsening weather conditions are forcing people into " a daily struggle for survival , " he added . Looting and attacks on humanitarian convoys continue to strain aid delivery in southern and central Gaza , while ongoing attempts by Food Security Sector ( FSS ) partners to deliver lifesaving aid into the besieged areas of North Gaza continue to be largely blocked after 60 days of tightened siege . As of 9 December , only four out of 19 bakeries supported by WFP remained operational across the Gaza Strip , all of them in Gaza governorate where the flow of wheat flour has been generally constant and the price of a 25-kilogramme bag of flour is about NIS 20-30 ( US$5.6-8.4 ) . This is in contrast to central and southern Gaza , where anecdotal market observations indicated that the price of a bag of flour was at least NIS 1,000 ( $280 ) on 1 December in Deir al Balah and NIS 875 ( $245 ) in Khan Younis . <p> Combined , access impediments , ongoing hostilities , the breakdown of public order and safety , the near total lack of commercial good entries , and exorbitant prices of the few basic commodities still available on the market have all contributed to a deterioration in dietary diversity across the Strip . In November , bread and pulses have dominated household diets for the second consecutive month , with almost no consumption of vegetables , meat and eggs . Between 24 November and 6 December , UNICEF conducted a new post-distribution monitoring survey , which showed that nearly 100 per cent of children between six and 23 months of age and pregnant and breastfeeding women in Gaza city , Deir al Balah and Khan Younis are not meeting minimum dietary diversity , which is defined as receiving foods from at least four out of seven food groups . <p> An analysis published by the Protection Cluster , with support from FSS , highlights that " children and women are now increasingly searching through piles of rubbish for food scraps , " often barefoot and without gloves , facing heightened risks of disease and injury from sharp edges or metal in solid waste and being extremely exposed to the threat of unexploded ordnance . Shrinking food supplies have also triggered physical violence at the still functional bakeries and distribution points , with six women and girls killed as of 2 December in violent incidents that erupted while they were waiting for bread at bakeries . Reliance on negative coping strategies is also increasing , including child labour and begging , while gender-based violence partners report that women and girls are engaging in survival sex in exchange for food , increasing their exposure to exploitation and abuse . <p> " Women and girls across Gaza , including 50,000 pregnant women , have been left without the essentials to survive , " highlights the United Nations Population Fund ( UNFPA ) . Maternal deaths , miscarriages and preterm births continue to rise , with conditions being particularly critical in besieged areas of the North Gaza governorate , where an estimated 1,720 pregnant women , and adolescent girls , have remained largely cut off from essential aid for over 60 days . Repeated attacks and damages to the Kamal Adwan Hospital , the last major facility providing maternal and newborn care in the governorate , have hampered pregnant women 's access to critical care , with newborns having " died due to a lack of incubators , electricity , and medical supplies . " Meanwhile , an estimated 90,000 women and girls -- or about 70 per cent of the population displaced from North Gaza since the intensification of hostilities in October 2024 -- have sought refuge in overcrowded shelters and damaged buildings in Gaza city , struggling to access increasingly strained services . Despite ongoing efforts to expand emergency obstetric and newborn care and sexual and reproductive health services across the Strip , aid restrictions continue to pose a challenge . UNFPA reports that 49 of its trucks , loaded with reproductive health equipment and supplies , including medicines that prevent women hemorrhaging during childbirth , tents , sanitary pads , hygiene kits , and generators , are presently stalled at the border . <p> Persons with Disabilities ( PwD ) are among the worst affected groups by the catastrophic humanitarian conditions in the Gaza Strip . Enduring specific challenges in addition to those faced by everyone else such as limited access to basic services , repeated displacement , and severe psychological trauma . According to the Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics ( PCBS ) , there were 58,000 PwD in the Gaza Strip prior to the escalation in October 2023 and , based on a recent WHO analysis , about 26,000 people or 25 per cent of the total number injuries as of 24 November now have serious life-changing injuries that require continuous rehabilitation . While about 20 per cent of families surveyed before the war had at least one PwD , the war has now caused " an epidemic of traumatic injuries with no rehabilitation services available , " stated UNRWA 's Commissioner-General Philippe Lazzarini . Speaking on behalf of UN Secretary-General Ant ? nio Guterres at the 2 December Cairo ministerial conference on humanitarian aid for Gaza , UN deputy chief , Amina Mohammed , also highlighted that " Gaza now has the highest number of children amputees per capita anywhere in the world -- many losing limbs and undergoing surgeries without even anaesthesia . " Conditions have been especially grave due to the destruction of hospitals and rehabilitation centres , restrictions on medical evacuation , and the limited entry of assistive devices such as wheelchairs , crutches and hearing aids , and the severe shortage of medical supplies and basic consumables . Based on a participatory assessment conducted by the Protection Cluster between September and November 2024 , the lack of access to essential assistive devices , including basic mobility aids , for PwD significantly hinders their ability to carry out daily activities and participate fully in society . Similarly , the scarcity of hearing aids and batteries exacerbates communication barriers , isolating individuals from social interactions and support networks . This absence of necessary equipment not only affects their physical mobility but also their mental health , leading to widespread feelings of frustration and helplessness . <p> On 3 December , the Coastal Municipalities Water Utility ( CMWU ) began operating a water desalination plant in Deir al Balah that has been repaired as part of a donor-funded project to maintain and restart non-operational plants , one of the primary sources of drinking water for people across the Strip . The plant now has a capacity of 40 cubic metres per day , helping to alleviate water shortages and serving approximately 8,000 people daily . Additionally , to supply drinking water to the western neighbourhoods and the Al Mawasi area of Khan Younis , CMWU and the Khan Younis municipality have completed maintenance and repair works on the main section of the water transmission line connecting the South Gaza seawater desalination plant to the Satar/Al Israa water tank and pumping station . This work has enabled desalinated water to reach the Satar water tank for the first time since the escalation of hostilities in October 2023 , providing safe drinking water to over 200,000 people . In another positive development , with UNICEF 's support , CMWU is re-constructing a water desalination plant at its main storage facility west of Khan Younis , which had been dismantled and transported from Rafah governorate under extremely dangerous conditions during the Israeli military operation in the area that began in early May 2024 . Once testing and calibration are completed , the plant will have a capacity to produce 1,200 cubic metres of water per day , which would significantly improve the supply of clean and safe drinking water to about 60,000 people in various areas of Al Mawasi , in western Khan Younis . <p> Between 1 and 9 December , out of 197 planned aid movements across the Gaza Strip requiring coordination with Israeli authorities , 30 per cent ( 60 ) were facilitated , 43 per cent ( 84 ) were denied , 16 per cent ( 32 ) were initially approved but then impeded , and 11 per cent ( 21 ) were cancelled due to logistical and security challenges . These included 56 aid movements that needed to pass through the Israeli military-controlled checkpoints on Al Rashid or Salah ad Din roads to reach areas north of Wadi Gaza ( including both North Gaza and Gaza governorates ) , of which only 16 per cent ( nine ) were facilitated by the Israeli authorities , 46 per cent ( 26 ) were denied , 23 per cent ( 13 ) were impeded , and 14 per cent ( eight ) were cancelled . Aid missions to the North Gaza governorate were particularly disrupted , especially those seeking to reach Jabalya , Beit Lahiya and Beit Hanoun . Between 1 and 9 December , the UN attempted to reach these besieged areas 17 times , of which 16 attempts were denied and one was impeded . The impeded mission took place on 1 December , deploying an emergency medical team to Kamal Adwan Hospital and evacuating patients following long delays . The impeded mission took place on 1 December , deploying an emergency medical team to Kamal Adwan Hospital and evacuating patients following long delays . Coordinated aid missions to areas in Rafah governorate , where there has been an ongoing Israeli military operation since early May , have faced similar challenges . All 11 coordinated requests submitted to the Israeli authorities to access Rafah governorate between 1 and 9 December were outright denied . This excludes 30 coordinated movements to Kerem Shalom crossing , of which 70 per cent ( 21 ) were facilitated , 16 per cent ( five ) were impeded , seven per cent ( two ) were denied , and seven per cent ( two ) were cancelled . <p> Emergency responders and aid workers continue to encounter severe challenges in delivering assistance across the Gaza Strip , often facing grave risks to their own safety . On 4 December , a Palestine Red Crescent Society ( PRCS ) paramedic was reportedly shot and killed in the Khan Younis area while returning from a mission to transport patients to his post at the PRCS ambulance station at the field hospital in Rafah . On 7 December , a PCD staff was also reportedly killed at the entrance of Kamal Adwan hospital in Beit Lahiya in North Gaza governorate , where he stayed to help medical teams in providing lifesaving services . Based on information collected by OCHA from humanitarian partners , since October 2023 , at least 356 aid workers , including 349 Palestinians and seven foreigners have been killed ; this includes 255 UN staff ( of whom 251 were UNRWA staff members ) , 34 PRCS staff and volunteers , and at least 67 other aid workers with national and international NGOs . <p> Since midnight on 07 October 2023 , Occupation forces have been imposing a complete closure around the whole of the West Bank , preventingpeople , including even permit -- holders , from entering both the city of Jerusalem as well as Israel , otherwise than for specially negotiated exceptions . Permanent military checkpoints impose severe travel restrictions within the Occupied West Bank . <p> Israeli military airstrike -- 2 killed : Tubas -- 14:30 , an Israeli warplane fired a missile towards people in the al-Safeh district of ? ? Tubas , killing two residents , Adi Radwan Mustafa Daraghmeh and Khalil Majdi Hikmat Al-Masry , and then removing their bodies . <p> Israeli police and settlers ' mosque violation:Ramallah -- 12:40 , Israeli settlers , escorted by Occupation police , invaded the Al-Aqsa Mosque compound and closed the northern entrance to the town of Birzeit . <p> Israeli Army population -- control:Jenin -- 18:00 , Israelitroops took prisoner a man , Hosni Tayseer Hosni Amr Qanari , at the Salem military checkpoint when he reported , as ordered , for interrogation at Israeli Military Intelligence . <p> Israeli Army population -- control:Qalqiliya -- 15:55 -- 16:30 , Israeli forces closed the road under the Azzun town bridge . <p> Israeli Army land violation : Nablus -- 14:05 , Israeli Occupation forces bulldozed land between the villages of Qaryut and Jalloud . <p> Israeli Army stun grenades fired:Hebron -- 14:30 , the Israeli Army fired stun grenades towards people , at the entrance to the al-Fawar refugee camp . <p> Israeli Army invasion of school and population -- control : Hebron -- 08:00 , Israeli troops surrounded Al-Arroub Secondary School for Boys in the al-Arroub refugee camp , preventing students from entering and ordering the school 's closure . <p> Occupation settler terrorism:Tubas -- 17:15 , Israeli settlers invaded the Khirbet Samra area of the North Jordan Valley , threatening residents while patrolling around their homes . <p> Occupation settler raid meets resistance : Nablus -- 06:45 , Occupation settlers , invading the village of Awarta , met with resistance from local residents that resulted in one settler vehicle being set on fire . <p> Occupation settler vandalism and arrogance : Jericho -- Israeli Occupation settlers painted images of the Israeli flag on the wall of a house at the entrance to al-Jiftlik village . <p> Raid:Ramallah -- 19:45 -- 03:50 , Israeli Occupation forces raided and patrolled the village of al-Mughayir . <p> Raid : Ramallah -- 23:05 -- 03:50 , the Israeli Army raided and patrolled the village of Kafr Malik . <p> Raid : Ramallah -- 02:05 -- 04:55 , Israeli troops raided and patrolled the town of Beitunya . <p> Raid -- armed robbery -- 2 taken prisoner:Tubas -- 10:30 , the Israeli military raided the city and invaded the Gulf Exchange shop , taking prisoner two people and seizing the currency exchange'sdevices and files . <p> Raid -- population -- control : Nablus -- 10:50 , Israeli soldiers raided the city and issued demolition orders against a number of houses . <p> Leslie Bravery is a Londoner with vivid World War Two memories of the Nazi blitz on his home town . In 1947/1948 His father explained to him what was happening to the Palestinians thus : " Any ideology or political movement that creates refugees in the process of realising its ambitions must be inhuman and should be opposed and condemned as unacceptable . " What followed confirmed this assessment of the Zionist entity a hundredfold . Now a retired flamenco guitarist , with a lifelong interest in the tragedy of what happened to the Palestinian people , he tries to publicise their plight . Because the daily injustices they suffer barely get a mention in the mainstream news media , Leslie edits/compiles a daily newsletter , In Occupied Palestine , for the Palestine Human Rights Campaign . These days , to preserve his sanity , he enjoys taking part in a drama group whenever possible ! 
@@118747507 <p> A New Zealand advocacy group for Palestine has condemned the government for refusing to provide humanitarian visas for Palestinians with family in the country while welcoming a growing number of Israeli " visitors " . <p> The Palestine Solidarity Network Aotearoa ( PSNA ) claims the visitors are likely to be " complicit " in Israel 's genocidal war crimes in the 14-month war on Gaza . <p> The protest group said in a statement that " many if not most of these ' tourists ' are actively serving in the Israeli Defence Force 's genocidal attacks on Gaza and Lebanon " . <p> " The United Nations , the International Court of Justice , and most recently Amnesty International , have variously described the Israeli attack on Gaza as genocide , " said PSNA national chair John Minto . <p> The New Zealand government had no idea how many Israeli " tourists " were doing military service , because they were not required to provide that information as they arrived , he added . <p> " Genocide duty in the Israeli armed forces is compulsory for nearly all Israelis , so there will be a high proportion of active or reservist soldiers coming to Aotearoa with blood on their hands . " <p> Urgent to deny entry Service in the IDF for 32 months is compulsory for nearly all Israeli men when they reach 18 and women are required to serve 24 months . <p> Members of Israel 's ultra-orthodox community were included in the conscription from June after previously being exempt . <p> After the initial period , Israelis must be available as reservists until age 40 . <p> PSNA 's John Minto said the New Zealand government must urgently deny entry to any Israelis who were serving or had served in the IDF . <p> " Combat reservists are now on average serving four months in the IDF . So it 's not just a narrow younger age group . " <p> According to Minto , the New Zealand government had a list of extremist Israeli settlers who it banned from entering Aotearoa -- but he viewed this list as " hopelessly inadequate " . <p> Obligation to prevent genocide " The International Court of Justice has obligated countries to prevent Israeli genocide and work to end Israeli occupation of Palestinian Territory , " Minto said . <p> " When our border immigration officials are not required to even ask if an Israeli is serving in the military , or is an illegal settler , then our government is ignoring both of its obligations . <p> " The soldiers perpetrating this genocide might pretend to be innocent thrill-seeking tourists when they visit here , but they are directly responsible for operating occupation , apartheid , genocide and ethnic cleansing . " 
@@118783119 <p> The actions were taken at the Assembly 's resumed 10th emergency special session , following the failure of the Security Council to adopt a resolution demanding such a ceasefire and full hostage release . <p> Despite securing 14 votes in favour , that text put forward by the 10 elected members of the Council , failed to pass owing to a veto from permanent member the United States . <h> Demand for ceasefire <p> In adopting the resolution entitled " Demand for ceasefire in Gaza " ( A/ES-10/L.33 ) , the 193-member Assembly also demanded all parties " fully comply with international law " , including international humanitarian law , especially as it relates to protection of civilians and civilian infrastructure . <p> The resolution was the second explicit demand for a ceasefire by the Assembly at the resumed special session , since the outbreak of the war in Gaza on 7 Oct 2023 . <p> It was adopted with 158 nations in favour and nine against , with 13 abstentions . <p> There were some notable changes in how countries voted compared with previous resolution . <p> Albania and Fiji abstained on Wednesday , having supported the resolution last year . Micronesia also abstained , having opposed the earlier resolution . <p> The following Members opposed the text on Wednesday , having abstained at the earlier vote : Argentina , Hungary , Tonga . <p> The other negative votes were Czechia , Israel , Nauru , Papua New Guinea , Paraguay , and the United States . These Member States had also voted against the resolution last year . <h> Release of hostages <p> The resolution further demanded that parties " fully , unconditionally and without delay " implement all the provisions of Security Council resolution 2735 , regarding an immediate ceasefire , the release of hostages , the exchange of Palestinian prisoners , the return of hostage remains ; the return of Palestinian civilians to their homes and neighbourhoods in all areas of Gaza , including in the north ; and the full withdrawal of Israeli forces from Gaza . <h> Need for accountability <p> The General Assembly also stressed the need for accountability , asking the Secretary-General to propose how the United Nations could " help to advance accountability " through existing or new mechanisms . <p> The resolution requested the UN chief to submit a comprehensive report , including a needs assessment for Gaza , and reiterated its " unwavering commitment to the vision of the two-State solution " , with the Gaza Strip as part of the Palestinian State . <p> " In this regard the Assembly rejects any attempt at demographic or territorial change in the Gaza Strip , including any actions that reduce the territory of the Gaza Strip , and stresses the importance of unifying the Gaza Strip with the West Bank under the Palestinian Authority , " the resolution noted . <h> Full support for UNRWA <p> In the second resolution adopted on Wednesday ( A/ES-10/L.32 ) , the General Assembly affirmed its " full support " for UNRWA , which has been under sustained pressure from Israel . <p> It " deplored " the legislation adopted by the Israeli Knesset on 28 October 2024 , which -- if implemented -- would effectively prevent UNRWA from carrying out its mandate in the Occupied Palestinian Territory . <p> The resolution was adopted with 159 Member States in favour and nine against ( Argentina , Israel , Micronesia , Nauru , Palau , Papua New Guinea , Paraguay , Tonga , and the United States ) , with 11 Member States abstaining . <h> Respect UNRWA 's mandate <p> The General Assembly called on the Israeli Government to " abide by its international obligations , respect the privileges and immunities of the Agency and uphold its responsibility to allow and facilitate full , rapid , safe and unhindered humanitarian assistance in all its forms into and throughout the entire Gaza Strip , including the provision of sorely needed basic services to the civilian population . " <p> " The Assembly strongly warns against any attempts to dismantle or diminish the operations and mandate of the Agency , recognizing that any interruption or suspension of its work would have severe humanitarian consequences for millions of Palestine refugees who depend on the Agency 's services and also implications for the region , " the resolution stated . <h> Implement recommendations <p> The Assembly also called on UNRWA to fully implement the recommendations outlined in the independent review conducted by Catherine Colonna , the former French foreign minister . <p> It also took note of the report of the working group on financing of UNRWA , urging " immediate efforts " to address the financial and operational crises affecting the Agency . <h> Are you licensed for Scoop ? <p> Scoop is free for personal use , but you 'll need a licence for work use . This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall . Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month , and start using Scoop like a Pro . 
@@118783122 <p> " But , as you know , the number of health facilities that are still up and running at any given time changes constantly due to insecurity and access restrictions . " <h> Medicine stocks running out <p> UNRWA has warned that stocks of medicines in its health facilities are low , and at least 60 items will run out within a month . <p> In Gaza , critical shortages of medicines and medical supplies persist due to access impediments and the limited number of safe and viable routes to bring supplies into the enclave . <h> Guterres calls for justice for Africa in speech to Lesotho parliament <p> Advertisement - scroll to continue reading <p> The UN Secretary-General called for Africa to have a stronger role in global affairs in an address on Thursday to the parliament in Lesotho . <p> Ant ? nio Guterres was on his first visit to the southern African country as it celebrates the bicentenary of the Basotho nation , which became the Kingdom of Lesotho following independence from Britain in 1966 . <p> He said deep injustices stemming from colonialism are denying Africa 's rightful place on the world stage . <p> He cited the UNSecurity Council as an example , noting that nearly 80 years after it was established , the continent still awaits even a single permanent seat . <p> " This hurts Africa , but it also hurts the Council -- its effectiveness , its legitimacy , and its credibility , " he said . <p> The Secretary-General stated that crises such as the conflicts raging from Sudan to the Sahel , demand not just global attention but African leadership . <p> " Yet Africa has no permanent voice when the world decides on matters of war and peace ... in Africa , through the Security Council , " he remarked , adding " that is unacceptable -- and it must change . " <p> He called for correcting injustices on other fronts , including related to debt relief and funding for climate action . <h> Myanmar parties urged to end fighting as violence escalates <p> The Secretary-General is also deeply concerned about reports of escalation of violence in Myanmar which has caused further civilian suffering and displacement , his Spokesperson said on Thursday in New York . <p> Indiscriminate aerial attacks causing civilian casualties continue to be reported in many parts of the country , which has been under military rule since February 2021 . <p> Mr. Guterres reiterated his calls on all parties to the conflict to end violence and reminded them of the obligation to protect civilians , as required under international law . <p> He also urged all sides to prevent further incitement of intercommunal tensions . <h> World 's top opium producer <p> Meanwhile , Myanmar remains a leading source of opium and heroin , even though opium production has slowed , according to thelatest surveyby the UN Office on Drugs and Crime ( UNODC ) . <p> The report analyses data collected during the third growing season since the military seized power in a coup . <p> It shows a moderate decrease of four per cent - from 47,100 hectares to 45,200 - and a similar decrease in yield per hectare , pointing to an initial stabilization of cultivation at the current high levels , thus cementing Myanmar 's status as the world 's leading source of opium . <p> However , the uneven distribution of the decrease across the country -- as well as uncertainties regarding the impact of the continued drug ban in Afghanistan on global demand for opium and heroin -- suggest that Myanmar 's opium economy is at a crossroads . <p> UNODC Regional Representative Masood Karimipour said that " as conflict dynamics in the country remain intense and the global supply chains adjust to the ban in Afghanistan , we see significant risk of a further expansion over the coming years . " <h> Are you licensed for Scoop ? <p> Scoop is free for personal use , but you 'll need a licence for work use . This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall . Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month , and start using Scoop like a Pro . 
@@118783379 <p> New Plymouth has admitted it has investments in companies active in illegal Israeli settlements on occupied Palestinian land , contrary to NZ Government foreign policy and UN rulings . <p> The revelation comes a week after Mayor Neil Holdom refused a request from Parihaka Pa and all the district 's iwi to make sure the council was not invested in companies profiting from the settlements . <p> The shareholdings sparked a hostile debate with Holdom accusing councillor Bali Haque of politicising the district 's nest-egg for virtue signalling , and Haque in turn questioning the mayor 's honesty and integrity . <p> The investments were made from New Plymouth District Council 's $400 million Perpetual Investment Fund ( PIF ) . <p> The money is managed by Mercer in a passive fund , which automatically follows an index of companies and chooses which shares to buy . <p> Eight companies invested in by Mercer have been named by the United Nations as enabling and profiting from the expansion of Israeli settlements in Palestinian Occupied Territories : <p> Motorola Solutions - the security arm of the mobile phone maker . <p> Travel companies Expedia , Airbnb , and Booking Holdings which owns Booking.com and other sites . <p> French multinational railways manufacturer Alstom <p> Three Israeli Banks , including the country 's first and third biggest - which often offer concessionary loans to settlers . <p> Less than a million dollars is involved , just a quarter of one percent of New Plymouth 's PIF . <p> Haque wanted Mercer to be told that NPDC strongly disagrees with investing in companies active in the settlements and wants the investments ended as soon as possible . <p> He also proposed that the council-owned company overseeing the fund - the PIF Guardians - bring more advice on the process and cost of divestment if Mercer did n't act . <p> " We need to do something . <p> " It 's small , I understand less than a million we 're talking about , but it is significant in terms of the impact ... This is something we can actually do and control . " <p> Mayor Neil Holdom repeated his explanation to the Parihaka delegation for opposing any action . <p> " Given the deeply sensitive and complex nature of the Israeli Palestine conflict we 've got ta approach this with a great deal of care and it 's my view that supporting this could be seen as taking a position in a dispute that has profound emotional and personal significance for members of our community on both sides . " <p> The Mayor then turned to Haque . <p> " It is clear councillor Haque cares deeply about this issue and wants this debate and in the desperation to signal his personal conviction now wants to start playing politics with the PIF . " <p> " It 's a terrible conflict , it 's a disaster for everybody involved but now someone wants to drag our community 's $400m investment fund into this and make it a political football , to make a political point . " <p> Haque , clearly shocked , said it was Holdom himself who 'd told him to bring the motion to the Council Controlled Organisations committee . <p> " I 'm staggered that now you have now done an about face and turned the tables ... You were the very person who encouraged me to put this very motion to this committee and now you are attacking me personally for actually acting on the basis of what you asked me to do . " <p> Councillor Bali Haque is questioning the mayor 's integrity over the council 's treatment of investments . Photo : RNZ / John Gerritsen <p> Once tempers cooled , the Mayor explained that advice from the PIF Guardians was that the low-cost passive fund offered no control over Mercer 's decision and putting the funds in different management could cost up to $3.2m a year in higher fees . <p> Holdom said he 'd told Haque of the advice . <p> Haque said that he 'd adjusted his proposal in response and read Holdom 's text message advising him to bring a proposal to instruct Mercer to comply with UN resolutions . <p> " We heard that it might be expensive but I 'd quite like to know what it is we 're up for if Mercer decides not to act on the basis of what we 're saying , " said Haque . <p> They were defeated by Mayor Holdom and councillors Pearce , Murray Chong and Max Brough . <p> Councillor David Bublitz abstained , wanting the PIF to divest shares linked to any conflict anywhere in the world . <p> New Zealand in 2016 co-sponsored UN Security Council Resolution 2334 , declaring Israeli settlements in Palestine a violation of international law . <p> The resolution obliges states and entities " to withdraw all recognition , aid and assistance to Israel 's illegal presence in the occupied Palestine territory . " <p> And in July this year , the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) ruled that Israel 's settlements in Gaza and West Bank are illegal and ordered Israel to stop building new settlements and evacuate existing ones . <p> In September the UN General Assembly - including foreign minister Winston Peters - called on all States to make sure their people , companies and entities and authorities " do not act in any way that would entail recognition or provide aid or assistance in maintaining the situation created by Israel 's illegal presence in the Occupied Palestinian Territory . " <p> Mike Seawright , executive director and founder of New Zealand aid group ReliefAid , shares the difficulties of getting food , water and medical supplies into Gaza one year into the war in the Middle ... Audio 
@@118783509 <p> ... ACT are demanding an electronic Purity test that bypasses the rights of the individual for an online Big Brother who will punish the individual for private choice vices ? <p> - Sponsor Promotion - <p> Who the fuck are they ? The heel clicking nanny state who punishes like a self flagellating mother superior on meth ? <p> That 's who ACT are becoming and appealing to is it ? <p> The infantizisation of adults requiring the mass surveillance state staring over them like the lidless eye of a Puritan God scorching the individual in a sacrificial ceremony to civil rights all for the bloodlust of the lynch mob ! <p> WHERE IS YOUR SMALL GOVERNMENT FREEDOM NOW ACT ? ? ? <p> The Reserve Bank Governor purposely crashes the economy , causes tens of thousands in job losses , expects unemployment to hit 5.2 , beneficiary numbers explode and the Government is now forced to get imaginative in how to find ways to cut people off welfare ! <p> Remember the Economy is sinking so fast because the Government is ideologically imposing policy rather than well thought ideas . <p> Forcing beneficiaries onto cards will create the same problems Australia saw when they imposed this , people wo n't be able to use their benefit to pay rent and will get kicked out before the bureaucracy catches up . <p> So a welfare policy that increases the risk of homelessness to fund tax cuts they 'll never see for landlord loopholes . <p> The State is unjust and rigged for the rich . <p> Increasingly having independent opinion in a mainstream media environment which mostly echo one another has become more important than ever , so if you value having an independent voice -- please donate here . <h> 6 COMMENTS <p> David is spending on stupid things like giving hair dressers a license to sell wine so the client can then hop in her car and drive and kill some homeless person sleeping on the foot path because after a 2 hour hair appointment and 2 bottles of wine she is 3 x over the limit . He has employed 6 people for at least 3 months to investigate this . Fuck me it should only take one person a couple of days not 72 weeks of work time . That money would pay for retraining one or two of the people that have been thrown on the scrap heap by his shit government <p> ACT and NZ FIRST are now the government as Luxon has now capitulated and handed the baton on to Winston because he cant get a couple of boats with his legendary negotiating skill . Luxon is a legend in his own lunch time . His so called skills are lust an illusion no wonder those planes he bought are no longer able to fly . Fuck if he bought the ferries they would have no bungs to stop them sinking and they would not even complete the delivery voyage . So now he has opted to become the junior partner in the coalition and to leave the two rich prick party and the river of filth party to tear NZ apart . Fuck I might move to gaza it might be safer there . <p> ' Why is it always scrutiny of beneficiaries with ACT and not white collar crime ? ' Simple : Beneficiaries do not vote for ACT . People who hate beneficiaries vote for ACT . ACT is actually doing that which elected members of parliament are supposed to do -- following the wishes of its electorate -- commendable really . A government of bastards , by bastards and for bastards . <p> SIR LUXON OF NAZARETH : would anyone care to try a drop of my prized vintage bin 2024 liquor , that I brewed myself from the left over juices of beneficiaries and renters , that we ground down into mush , and squeezed under the pressure of administrative over reach , to achieve a perfect flavorful blend , that I distilled into a smooth belly warming drop that I 've christened " bottomfeeder supreme " , that 's just perfect for those special occasions , when property moguls who are wealthy and sorted , can gather round and drink a toast to me , for fulfilling the quid pro quo pledge to my election year donors , by easing the brightline test and interest deductibility , while turning the screws on the poor , the renters , the workers , and appointing piranha to savagely rip into public services , for I do not enter the sheepfold by the door but climb in by another way ! 
@@118783511 <p> I 'm a big fan of the Penk , he is funny , he is clever and he is probably the only reason you would ever vote National . <p> He understands the importance of free speech as a value that has to be protected . <p> Banning Candace because Australia had banned her was always a pathetic reason to ban her . <p> - Sponsor Promotion - <p> Sure , she 's an alt right hate grifter and we all have the right to counter protest her speaking , but banning her because she has said some crazy shit is the way to fuel and fan these grifters . <p> Free speech matters , it always has and when the State stops someone from entering the country to speak , it has to be for a very good reason . <p> Penk made the right call and we should all congratulate him for that and be grateful there is a rational voice inside the Government . <p> Young Labour should never have called for her to be banned , the Left should champion free speech rather than allow right wing front groups like the FSU claim the philosophical territory from us . <p> We are the Left , we should never fear argument and debate and we sure as Christ should n't attempt to censor it ! <p> In an age of disinformation , misinformation and apathy , our democracy needs engaged citizens like never before . <p> New Zealand is lucky enough to be a democracy , and while our debate must be fierce and unapologetic , we fight with our words , our ideas and our minds . We never harass , never intimidate and we never use physical violence . <p> We are blessed to be a democracy and the peaceful transfer of power alongside free speech are values worth fighting for in a polarized social media hate algoreythm hell scape . <p> Thanks Elon . <p> A toast fellow citizens to our political culture and long may we debate it ! <p> To Democracy -- we need to be kinder to individuals and far crueller to corporations . <p> Let Candace speak and let us decry her nonsense . <p> Our Democracy is weakened when we censor free speech , we are a bigger people than that . <p> Increasingly having independent opinion in a mainstream media environment which mostly echo one another has become more important than ever , so if you value having an independent voice -- please donate here . <p> Candace Owens is a key member of the movement that John Key referenced after Trumps election win . She will be an important additional voice in the anti-Maori agenda being rolled out by the government . She is against any form of reparation and progressive policies in general and she is exceptionally confident , eloquent and articulate . Now wonder National want her in the country to add some spice to the big pot of racial dis-harmony that is needed to win in 2026 . <p> Actually the way to fan these grifters is by way of oxygen . People are forbidden entry into countries because of bad character , that what she is as she just comes to sow seeds of discontent and hate . I do n't agree at all with your evaluation of hate speech being free speech . <p> Candace Owens criticism of Israel is focused solely on the harm done to Palestinian Christians living in Gaza and the West Bank . Not sure if she voices the same concern for non-Christian Palestinians . Still an an enemy of my enemy etc . More generally there are anti-war elements on the right the intersect with the strong anti-war sentiments on the left . 
@@118783529 <p> Attacks:There are no safe places for the militarily-dominated population in Gaza , who find themselves subjected to airstrikes and other missile attackson buildings , homes and many essentialfacilities , as well as constant gunfire and invasions by Israeli forces.The Israeli Navy continues to fire missiles , targeting facilities and buildings along the entire Gaza shoreline . <p> Victims:19more people have been killedwithin the past 48 hours , bringing the total number killed in Gaza since 7 Octoberto at least44,805 . Another 69have been wounded , bringing that total to 106,257 . The daily average number of men , women and children killed in Gaza is at least 104 ; that of those injured is now more than 247 . <p> Last week , we argued that in the face of a rising far-Right , what we have is solidarity with each other . And true solidarity among the exploited and oppressed begins with the willingness to understand and bear witness to others ' pain , recognizing it as inseparably linked to our own . <p> It is with that commitment , and tears in our eyes , that we watched as thousands of Syrians were freed from the Assad regime 's dungeons , reuniting with their loved ones after years or decades behind bars . These scenes are a powerful reminder of what we 're fighting for . <p> We do n't know what the future in Syria holds , but we do know that Syrians alone should have the power to determine that future , and that they deserve our solidarity . <p> For now , the images of prisons being emptied , of hundreds of thousands of refugees returning home , and of families reuniting gives us hope that one day soon , Palestinians will be free too . Because even as the political terrain shifts rapidly , we 're continuing to cry out with everything we have to end the U.S.-backed , Israeli genocide in Gaza . <h> Liberation of the ' human slaughterhouse ' <p> After opposition forces took control of Damascus , they began the work of liberating Sednaya Military Prison , one of Syria 's most notorious prisons : a massive labyrinth of decrepit cells and underground torture chambers dubbed the " human slaughterhouse . " <p> Syrians have endured unspeakable horrors . Over 100,000 people were estimated to be forcibly disappeared by the Assad regime . Now , local rights groups say most of them are likely dead . In the last days , a mass grave and rooms full of shoes and other belongings have been uncovered at Sednaya . <p> Countless families are learning that their missing loved ones were killed in Assad 's torture camps . Their pain is an agonising reminder of why we fight : Because all people deserve to live in safety and dignity , free of the horrors of incarceration , occupation , and genocide . <p> But there is hope , too . We have watched scenes of former prisoners stepping into the fresh air after decades in the darkness , equal parts joy and confusion on their faces ; families embracing after long years of separation ; hundreds of refugees flocking to the Lebanese and Turkish borders , finally able to return home . <h> Hundreds of Israeli airstrikes across Syria <p> While Syrians around the world let themselves feel hope -- cautiously optimistic that the years of brutal war and forced displacement could come to an end -- Israel was already invading Syria . <p> The Israeli military seized a Syrian-controlled buffer zone in the Golan Heights , Syrian territory that has been illegally occupied by Israel since 1967 . During the first Trump administration , the U.S. government recognized Israel 's sovereignty over the Golan , a move that Biden has refused to reverse . <p> Israeli forces also launched hundreds of airstrikes , hitting weapons depots , radar and air defence systems , airports , and aircraft squadrons in the capital , Damascus , and across the country , in addition to destroying the Syrian navy fleet . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has hailed the fall of the Assad regime -- but not because he cares about what happens to Syrians . In reality , he and the rest of Israel 's far-Right government are determined to exploit this moment of instability to carry out their expansionist aims across the region . The Israeli government 's aims are clear : To ensure a future Syria too weak to resist its settler-colonial plans for the entire region . <p> After all , the Israeli military has been bombing Syria for over a decade , including over the past months as it invaded neighbouring Lebanon , killing thousands and reducing entire villages to rubble . <h> The future is uncertain , but the answer is always solidarity <p> In last week 's Wire , we argued that Trump won by telling people that their pain is the only real pain , and that the pain of others does n't matter . <p> Our task on the left is to make it clear that all of our pain , like our struggles for freedom , are interconnected -- and that the forces that oppress us are also trying to divide us . They scapegoat the most vulnerable among us because they know we 're at our most powerful when we act together . <p> The left can and must tell a more compelling story than the Right , one rooted in solidarity : the idea that none of us is free until all of us are free , and that we should stand with the oppressed everywhere . <p> We do n't know what the future in Syria holds , but we do know that Syrians alone should have the power to determine that future , and that they deserve our solidarity . For now , the images of prisons being emptied , of hundreds of thousands of refugees returning home , and of families reuniting gives us hope that one day soon , Palestinians will be free too . <p> Since midnight on 07 October 2023 , Occupation forces have been imposing a complete closure around the whole of the West Bank . Permanent military checkpoints impose severe travel restrictions within the Occupied West Bank . <p> Israeli Army attack -- 2 wounded:Jenin -- 11:10 -- 17:10 , Israeli Occupation forces , firing live ammunition , stormed Silat al-Dahr as well as the village of al-Fanduqumiya , wounding two residents:Amer Ghassan Masoud and Muhammad Najeh Hantouli . <p> Israeli Army water crime and agricultural sabotage:Salfit -- 08:50 , Israeli Occupation forces demolished two agricultural facilities as well as two wells on Kafr al-Dik farmland . <p> Israeli Army land-grab:Salfit -- 22:00 , Israeli forces seized ? ? land trapped behind the Occupation Annexation Wall , belonging to al-Zawiya and the village of Rafat , in order to enlarge a quarry . <p> Israeli Army land-grab:Bethlehem -- 17:00 , the Israeli Army seized a strip of Jourat al-Sham'a village land , in order to extend a bypass road from the Gush Etzion settlement to the Mazmoria checkpoint , east of Bethlehem . <p> Israeli Army land-grab:Bethlehem -- theIsraeli Occupation issued an order , for the seizure of 9.4 hectares of land trapped behind the Annexation Wall near the tunnel area west of Beit Jallah , so as to establish a bus station for settlers . <p> Israeli Army population -- control:Bethlehem -- the IsraeliArmyblocked the entrance to the village of al-Manshiya . <p> Occupation settler road rage -- child hospitalised : Nablus -- 13:45 , an Israeli settler , ran over and hospitalised a child , Ibrahim Muhammad Ibrahim Samara , on the main road passing by the village of al-Lubban al-Sharqiya . <p> Raid:Qalqiliya -- 13:05 , Israeli troops raided and patrolled the village of Hajja . <p> Raid -- injury -- 3 taken prisoner:Qalqiliya -- 04:50 -- 07:20 , the Israeli military raided the city , injuring one resident and taking prisoner three people . <p> Raid:Qalqiliya -- 07:30 , Israeli soldiers raided and patrolled the village of Kafr Laqif . <p> Raid -- school pupils and staff terrorised:Nablus -- morning , the Awarta Secondary School for Boys'Administration were forced to evacuate its students when Occupation forces raided the village of Awarta and ordered the school 's Principal and teaching staff to close the premises and leave . <p> Leslie Bravery is a Londoner with vivid World War Two memories of the Nazi blitz on his home town . In 1947/1948 His father explained to him what was happening to the Palestinians thus : " Any ideology or political movement that creates refugees in the process of realising its ambitions must be inhuman and should be opposed and condemned as unacceptable . " What followed confirmed this assessment of the Zionist entity a hundredfold . Now a retired flamenco guitarist , with a lifelong interest in the tragedy of what happened to the Palestinian people , he tries to publicise their plight . Because the daily injustices they suffer barely get a mention in the mainstream news media , Leslie edits/compiles a daily newsletter , In Occupied Palestine , for the Palestine Human Rights Campaign . These days , to preserve his sanity , he enjoys taking part in a drama group whenever possible ! <h> 1 COMMENT <p> Yes ! 100% ! Israel is the hero of all the countries in this world . We are fighting evil and succeeding in record time . We are a people with no other country , this land is our first and our last . Israel chai because Am Israel chai . 
@@118792369 <p> UN members vote overwhelmingly to demand a ceasefire in Gaza and in support of the UN agency for Palestinian refugees ( UNRWA ) . Image : UN <p> Asia Pacific Report <p> The United Nations General Assembly has voted overwhelmingly to demand an immediate ceasefire in the Gaza Strip -- but three of the isolated nine countries that voted against are Pacific island states , including Papua New Guinea . <p> The assembly passed a resolution yesterday demanding an immediate , unconditional and permanent ceasefire in Gaza , which was adopted with 158 votes in favour from the 193-member assembly and nine votes against with 13 abstentions . <p> Of the nine countries voting against , the three Pacific nations that sided with Israel and its relentless backer United States were joined by Nauru , Papua New Guinea and Tonga . <p> The other countries that voted against were Argentina , Czechia , Hungary and Paraguay . <p> Thirteen abstentions included Fiji , which had previously controversially voted with Israel , Micronesia , Palau . Supporters of the resolution in the Pacific region included Australia , New Zealand , and Timor-Leste . <p> #BREAKING UN General Assembly ADOPTS resolution A/ES-10/L.33 demanding an immediate , unconditional and permanent ceasefire in Gaza as well as the immediate and unconditional release of all hostages <p> In a separate vote , 159 UNGA members voted in favour of a resolution affirming the body 's " full support " for the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East . <p> UNRWA has been the target of diplomatic and financial attacks by Israel and its backers -- which have baselessly accused the lifesaving organisation of being a " terrorist group " -- and literal attacks by Israeli forces , who have killed more than 250 of the agency 's personnel . <p> Nine UNGA members opposed the measure -- including Nauru , Papua New Guinea and Tonga -- while 11 others abstained . Security Council resolutions are legally binding , while General Assembly resolutions are not , and are also not subject to vetoes . <p> #BREAKING UN General Assembly ADOPTS resolution A/ES-10/L.32 affirming its full support for the mandate of the UN Relief and Works Agency @UNRWA and deploring the legislation adopted by the Israeli Knesset on 28 October 2024 <p> The US has six times vetoed Security Council resolutions in favour of a ceasefire in the past 14 months . <p> The UN votes yesterday took place amid sustained Israeli attacks on Gaza including a strike on a home sheltering forcibly displaced Palestinians in Deir al-Balah that killed at least 33 people , including children , local medical officials said . <p> This followed earlier Israeli attacks , including the Monday night bombing of the al-Kahlout family home in Beit Hanoun that killed or wounded dozens of Palestinians and reportedly wiped the family from the civil registry . 
@@118792370 <p> An " Our freedom of expression/assembly is being gagged and violated by our government to support genocide " - history will not forgive or forget " placard at the World Human Rights Day march in Suva , Fiji , on Tuesday . . . a reference to the curbs on prrotest and discussion over Israel 's atrocities in Gaza . Image : Instagram/Fiji Women 's Crisis Centre <p> By Apenisa Waqairadovu in Suva <p> Fiji 's coalition government has come under scrutiny over allegations of human rights violations . <p> Speaking at the commemoration of International Human Rights Day in Suva on Tuesday , the chair of the Fiji NGO Coalition for Human Rights ( NGOCHR ) , Shamima Ali , claimed that -- like the previous FijiFirst administration -- the coalition government has demonstrated a " lack of commitment to human rights " . <p> Addressing more than 400 activists at the event , the Minister for Women , Children , and Social Protection Lynda Tabuya acknowledged the concerns raised by civil society organisations , assuring them that Sitiveni Rabuka 's government was committed to listening and addressing these issues . <p> Shamima Ali claimed that freedom of expression was still being suppressed and the coalition had failed to address this . <p> " We are also concerned that there continue to be government restrictions on freedom of expression and assembly through the arbitrary application of the Public Order Amendment Act , which should have been changed by now -- two years into the new government that we all looked forward to , " she said . <p> A " Girls wan na have fundamental human rights " placard at the World Human Rights Day march in Suva . Image : FBC News <p> Ali alleged that serious decisions in government were made unfairly , and women in leadership continued to be " undermined " . <p> " Nepotism and cronyism remain rife with each successive government , with party supporters being given positions with no regard for merit , diversity , and representation , " she said . <p> " Misogyny against certain women leaders is rampant , with wild sexism and online bullying . " <p> Responding , Minister Tabuya acknowledged the concerns raised and called for dialogue to bring about the change needed . <p> " I can sit here and be told everything that we are doing wrong in government , " Tabuya said . <p> " I can take it , but I can not assure that others in government will take it the same way as well . So I encourage you , with the kind of partnerships , to begin with dialogue and to build together because government can not do it alone . " <p> The minister stressed that to address the many human rights violation concerns that had been raised , the government needed support from civil society organisations , traditional leaders , faith-based leaders , and a cross-sector approach to face these issues . 
@@118828274 <p> Attacks:There are no safe places for the militarily-dominated population in Gaza , who find themselves subjected to airstrikes and other missile attackson buildings , homes and many essentialfacilities , as well as constant gunfire and invasions by Israeli forces.The Israeli Navy continues to fire missiles , targeting facilities and buildings along the entire Gaza shoreline . <p> Victims:30more people have been killedwithin the past 48 hours , bringing the total number killed in Gaza since 7 Octoberto at least44,835 . Another 99have been wounded , bringing that total to 106,356 . The daily average number of men , women and children killed in Gaza is at least 105 ; that of those injured is now more than 246 . <h> OCHA : <h> Gaza Strip <p> Key Highlights <p> Israeli settlers set fire to a Palestinian home in Huwara town ( Nablus ) , displacing a family of five . <p> Since 5 December , Palestinian forces have carried out arrests and engaged in exchanges of fire with armed Palestinians in the northern West Bank . Palestinian forces shot and killed an unarmed 19-year-old Palestinian in Jenin . <p> Israeli forces killed eight Palestinians in the West Bank , including four in airstrikes . <p> The Israeli authorities demolished seven homes and displaced 20 people in An Nabi Samwil village , located in Area C on the East Jerusalem side of the Barrier . <p> Assuming a constrained operating environment persists , the 2025 Flash Appeal for the Occupied Palestinian Territory calls for an initial US$4.07 billion out of at least $6.6 billion estimated by the UN and partners to be required to address the humanitarian needs of three million out of 3.3 million people identified as requiring assistance in Gaza and the West Bank . <p> Latest Developments ( after 9 December ) <p> On 10 December , Israeli forces forcibly evicted a Palestinian family of ten , including six children , from their home in the Batn Al Hawa area of Silwan , East Jerusalem , following an Israeli Supreme Court ruling . The court ruled in favour of the settler organisation Ateret Cohanim , based on claims of ownership of the land . The Palestinian family had resided in the property since 1979 and has engaged in a legal battle against eviction since 2015 . This eviction is part of a wider pattern of displacement in East Jerusalem and comes shortly after the eviction of four households of the Shehadeh family from the same community in August . In total , 215 ? Palestinian households in East Jerusalem have eviction cases filed against them in Israeli courts , the majority by settler organisations , placing at least 948 people , including 408 children , at risk of displacement . <p> On 11 December , initial reports indicate that a Palestinian shot and killed a 12-year-old Israeli boy and injured at least three other Israelis near the Tunnels Checkpoint , Bethlehem . According to the Israeli military , the Palestinian opened fire at an Israeli bus and then fled the scene . Israeli forces surrounded Bethlehem and Husan in search for the armed Palestinian , who reportedly turned himself in on 12 December . <p> On 12 December , initial reports indicate that Israeli forces shot , killed and withheld the body of a Palestinian man in Qalqilya . <p> On 12 December , initial reports indicate that Israeli forces shot and killed a Palestinian man and injured three others in an exchange of fire during a five-hour operation in Balata refugee camp ( Nablus ) . Reportedly , Israeli forces conducted house raids and injured an elderly couple in their home . <p> Humanitarian Developments ( 3-9 December ) <p> During the reporting period , Israeli forces killed eight Palestinians , across the West Bank , including a child killed by settlement guards in East Jerusalem . During the same period , Israeli forces injured 39 others , including 14 children . One Palestinian was shot and killed by Palestinian forces in Jenin refugee camp . One Israeli soldier was injured in a ramming attack perpetrated by a Palestinian on Road 60 , near al Fawar Refugee Camp ( Hebron ) . For more information on casualties and further data breakdowns , please see the latest West Bank Monthly Snapshot . The following list of key incidents includes all Palestinian fatalities during the reporting period : <p> On 3 December , an Israeli airstrike hit a vehicle in Aqaba village ( Tubas ) , killing two Palestinians and injuring a third . The bodies and the injured person were transported to the Turkish Hospital in Tubas city . According to hospital sources , about 30 minutes after their arrival , Israeli forces raided the hospital , sealed all entrances , and opened fire inside , including in the emergency room ; causing widespread panic and damage . During the raid , Israeli forces detained medical staff and interrogated the hospital director , demanding information about the bodies of the killed Palestinians and the whereabouts of the injured man . Israeli forces then released the detained medical personnel and withdrew from the hospital . According to the World Health Organisation ( WHO ) , between 7 October 2023 and 28 November 2024 , over 650 attacks on health care have been documented in the West Bank , more than 60 per cent of which took place in Jenin , Nablus and Tulkarm governorates . <p> On 3 December , Israeli settlement guards shot and killed a 15-year-old Palestinian boy near his home in Silwan neighbourhood , East Jerusalem . According to eyewitnesses , guards from an Israeli settlement drove through the Ein al Louzeh area , stopped near Israeli settler houses , and fired three live bullets toward Palestinian houses . Shortly after , Israeli forces arrived at the scene and arrested a boy who had been injured by the gunfire . According to the boy 's family , Israeli forces then raided their home and informed the family that the boy had sustained a minor leg injury . After withdrawing from the home , the forces summoned the boy 's father and informed him that his son had been killed , that his body will be withheld for investigations , and warned them against holding any funeral or condolence gatherings . Following the incident , Israeli forces fired teargas cannisters at Palestinians who gathered in the area , who threw stones at the forces . <p> On 4 December , a 45-year-old Palestinian prisoner ( from Tulkarm ) was declared dead in an Israeli hospital . The man was detained on 28 November 2024 and was reportedly held by Israeli forces in Al Jalama detention centre before being transferred to Rambam Hospital in Haifa . The circumstances around his death remain unclear . This death is not counted in the total killed by Israeli forces during the reporting period . <p> On 6 December , Israeli forces shot and killed a Palestinian man during an exchange of fire in Balata Refugee Camp ( Nablus ) . According to UNRWA , undercover Israeli forces entered the camp , where they and Palestinians exchanged fire , resulting in the killing of one Palestinian . The Palestine Red Crescent Society ( PRCS ) reported that Israeli forces denied their access to the camp and the man was transported in a private vehicle to the hospital . <p> On 7 December , Israeli forces shot and killed a Palestinian man at Qalandiya checkpoint ( Jerusalem ) . According to eyewitnesses and video footage , the man launched fireworks into the sky in the vicinity checkpoint , after which Israeli soldiers shot the man and closed the checkpoint . The forces then shot teargas at Palestinian journalists and vehicles stuck at the checkpoint . PRCS was also denied access for about 30 minutes . Following the incident , Israeli forces raided the man 's home in Ar Ram town ( Jerusalem ) , vandalised the house , and violently dispersed people who came to offer condolences . <p> On 7 December , a Palestinian man injured one Israeli soldier in a ramming attack on Road 60 near the entrance of Al Fawar refugee camp ( Hebron ) . The driver fled the scene and Israeli forces carried out a search operation in the surrounding communities of the camp , during which Palestinians threw stones at the forces , who fired live ammunition . Israeli forces injured one Palestinian with shrapnel from live ammunition and physically assaulted and injured two others . All the entrances of Hebron city were closed by Israeli forces during the operation . According to Israeli media , an Israeli settler was injured by live ammunition shrapnel as Israeli forces attempted to shoot the Palestinian . Later , the Palestinian who perpetrated the ramming attack turned himself in to Israeli forces . <p> On 9 December , an Israeli airstrike killed two Palestinians in Tubas . Undercover Israeli forces raided the city and a Palestinian money-exchange facility , reportedly seizing money . A couple of hours later , an Israeli drone targeted and killed two Palestinians in the northern part of the city . The five-hour operation took place in the morning hours , during which students of 13 schools were unable to leave . <p> On 9 December , Palestinian forces in Jenin refugee camp shot two unarmed Palestinians : a 19-year-old who was killed and a 15-year-old boy who was injured . Since 5 December , Palestinian forces have carried out arrests , including of an injured man who was taken from Ibn Sina Hospital and subsequently released , and engaged in exchanges of fire with armed Palestinians . In one instance , a fire broke out in the emergency department of Jenin Governmental Hospital as a result of fighting in the area . These developments have disrupted people 's access to essential services , especially in Jenin Refugee Camp , with all schools in Jenin city and camp still closed ; affecting an estimated 69,000 people . The internal unrest has reportedly expanded to other locations in the northern West Bank , including reported shooting at the Tulkarm Governor 's Office building and tire burning near Balata refugee camp in Nablus . On 11 December , the UN Human Rights Office ( OHCHR ) called " on the Palestinian authorities in the Occupied West Bank to investigate the conduct of the Palestinian forces in Jenin Refugee Camp and hold to account those responsible for gross violations of international human rights law ... Since 7 October 2023 , the Palestinian forces have killed seven Palestinians including two boys in the occupied West Bank . " <p> During the reporting period , OCHA documented 38 incidents involving settlers and affecting Palestinians , including 20 attacks that resulted in casualties , property damage or both , in addition to the displacement of a family of five including a nine-year-old girl after Israeli settlers attacked their home in Huwwara ( Area B ) , south of Nablus , setting it ablaze ( see details below ) . The most frequent type of incident reported this week involved the vandalism of trees , crops , and other agricultural property , resulting in damage to 65 trees and saplings , and cultivated crops in 2,000 dunums of planted lands ; arson attacks and vandalism of Palestinian homes and vehicles , causing damage to five homes and eight vehicles ; various forms of physical assault , most of which targeted farmers and herders ; and vandalism of water networks and wells , affecting irrigation systems and water supply for agricultural lands . In total , five Palestinians were injured by Israeli settlers and three others were injured by Israeli forces during these attacks . <p> The following are some of the key incidents involving settlers that took place during the reporting period , which entailed intimidation , harassment , physical injury , property damage or a combination thereof , and include cases where Israeli forces were present : <p> On 4 December , Israeli settlers attacked and set fire to a home belonging to a Palestinian family of five in Area B of Huwara town , south of Nablus . According to the family , the mother heard noises outside and approached the door where she found a group of settlers attempting to force their way in with an iron tool . The door was shoved into her face , causing a nosebleed , before she managed to close it again . Moments later , settlers threw Molotov cocktails into the house setting it ablaze . The family fled the house and were attacked in their yard . The father sustained injuries to his face and head after being struck with an iron tool , while four family members were physically assaulted . The family received medical treatment on the ground and the father was transferred to a hospital . As a result of the attack , the family was displaced as their home was destroyed along with two vehicles . Since 7 October 2023 , some 300 Palestinian households comprising 1,762 people , including 856 children , have been displaced in Bedouin and mostly herding communities , primarily citing attacks by Israeli settlers and access restrictions . <p> On 6 December , armed Israeli settlers believed to be from a newly established Pneii Hever settlement outpost broke into a Palestinian house in Masafer Bani Na'im in Hebron during the night while the family , including children , were inside . The trespassers threatened the family at gunpoint , demanding they leave the area , and vandalised some of their belongings . After exiting the house , the assailants slashed the covers of two residential tents with knives and destroyed a solar panel system . <p> On 7 December , Israeli settlers believed to be from the Ofra settlement and surrounding outposts physically assaulted and injured two Palestinian men in At Tayba village ( Ramallah ) . The injured Palestinians stated that while they were assessing some land plots in Area B to the west of the village , Israeli settlers driving quad-bikes attacked them with sticks and stones , took over the land surveying device and hit one of the Palestinians , rendering him unconscious , and beat the other with a stick . Eventually , the Palestinians managed to flee to their village where the community transported them to a hospital . <p> On 7 December , armed Israeli settlers believed to be from the newly established Maale Amos settlement outpost , raided Bariet Al Minya village in Bethlehem , broke into a Palestinian residential structure , destroyed two water tanks , rendering them unusable , and vandalised personal belongings . In addition , they then set fire to a storage tent used for animal fodder , resulting in the complete destruction of the tent and over three tons of fodder . Israeli forces arrived and dispersed the settlers from the area . <p> Israeli authorities demolished or seized 31 Palestinian-owned structures across the West Bank , including East Jerusalem . This resulted in the displacement of 26 people , including 13 children , and otherwise affected the livelihoods , or access to services , of over 100 others . All targeted structures were in Area C of the West Bank and were demolished due to a lack of Israeli-issued building permits , which are nearly impossible for Palestinians to obtain . <p> Nearly 80 per cent of the people displaced and about a third of the structures demolished between 3 and 9 December were reported in a single incident in An Nabi Samwil village , which is located in Area C on the East Jerusalem side of the Barrier and has been designated by the Israeli authorities as a national park area . According to the village council and the affected families , some of the structures had demolition orders issued years ago . The families had been pursuing the legal process to obtain permits . However , the demolitions were carried out without the issuance of final orders or proper notification to the families , resulting in the destruction of several personal belongings and furniture . On the day of the demolition , 3 December , the Israeli Civil Administration along with Israeli forces demolished seven Palestinian homes and three agricultural structures in An Nabi Samwil village , citing the lack of Israeli-issued building permits . As a result , four households , comprising 20 People , including nine children , were displaced from their homes and are at risk of being displaced from the community ( see below ) . Additionally , two other households comprising 13 people , including eight children , were affected . Moreover , on the same day , the Israeli District Coordination Office ( DCO ) informed the village council of the revocation of Israeli-issued access permits through Al Jib checkpoint for five people whose homes were demolished . The community is dislocated from the West Bank by the Barrier route and checkpoints , as the residents hold West Bank IDs and therefore require a special Israeli-issued access permits to stay in their homes and commute between their village and essential services , such as health care , education and jobs , on the West Bank side of the Barrier . <p> Leslie Bravery is a Londoner with vivid World War Two memories of the Nazi blitz on his home town . In 1947/1948 His father explained to him what was happening to the Palestinians thus : " Any ideology or political movement that creates refugees in the process of realising its ambitions must be inhuman and should be opposed and condemned as unacceptable . " What followed confirmed this assessment of the Zionist entity a hundredfold . Now a retired flamenco guitarist , with a lifelong interest in the tragedy of what happened to the Palestinian people , he tries to publicise their plight . Because the daily injustices they suffer barely get a mention in the mainstream news media , Leslie edits/compiles a daily newsletter , In Occupied Palestine , for the Palestine Human Rights Campaign . These days , to preserve his sanity , he enjoys taking part in a drama group whenever possible ! 
@@118836676 <p> Gaza stands out as the " most dangerous " region in the world , with the highest number of journalists murdered in connection with their work in the past five years , says RSF . Image : Al Jazeera screenshot APR <p> The global media freedom watchdog Reporters Without Borders ( RSF ) has revealed an " alarming intensification of attacks on journalists " in its 2024 annual roundup -- especially in conflict zones such as Gaza . <p> Gaza stands out as the " most dangerous " region in the world , with the highest number of journalists murdered in connection with their work in the past five years . <p> Since October 2023 , the Israeli military have killed more than 145 journalists , including at least 35 whose deaths were linked to their journalism , reports RSF . <p> Also 550 journalists are currently imprisoned worldwide , a 7 percent increase from last year . <p> " This violence -- often perpetrated by governments and armed groups with total impunity -- needs an immediate response , " says the report . <p> " RSF calls for urgent action to protect journalists and journalism . " <p> Asia second most dangerous Asia is the second most dangerous region for journalists due to the large number of journalists killed in Pakistan ( seven ) and the protests that rocked Bangladesh ( five ) , says the report . <p> " Journalists do not die , they are killed ; they are not in prison , regimes lock them up ; they do not disappear , they are kidnapped , " said RSF director-general Thibaut Bruttin . <p> " These crimes -- often orchestrated by governments and armed groups with total impunity -- violate international law and too often go unpunished . <p> " We need to get things moving , to remind ourselves as citizens that journalists are dying for us , to keep us informed . We must continue to count , name , condemn , investigate , and ensure that justice is served . <p> " Fatalism should never win . Protecting those who inform us is protecting the truth . <p> A third of the journalists killed in 2024 were slain by the Israeli armed forces . <p> A record 54 journalists were killed , including 31 in conflict zones . <p> In 2024 , the Gaza Strip accounted for nearly 30 percent of journalists killed on the job , according to RSF 's latest information . They were killed by the Israeli army . <p> More than 145 journalists have been killed in Palestine since October 2023 , including at least 35 targeted in the line of duty . <p> RSF continues to investigate these deaths to identify and condemn the deliberate targeting of media workers , and has filed four complaints with the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) for war crimes committed against journalists . <p> Between a law banning foreign media outlets that were " deemed dangerous " , a bill that would give the government a stranglehold on public television budgets , and the addition of a private pro-Netanyahu channel on terrestrial television exempt from licensing fees , the ultra-conservative minister is augmenting pro-government coverage of the news . <p> RSF said it was " alarmed by these unprecedented attacks " against media independence and pluralism -- two pillars of democracy -- and called on the government to abandon these " reforms " . <p> On November 24 , two new proposals for measures targeting media critical of the authorities and the war in Gaza and Lebanon were approved by Netanyahu 's government . <p> The Ministerial Committee for Legislation validated a proposed law providing for the privatisation of the public broadcaster Kan . <p> On the same day , the Council of Ministers unanimously accepted a draft resolution by Communications Minister Shlomo Kahri from November 2023 seeking to cut public aid and revenue from the Government Advertising Agency to the independent and critical liberal newspaper Haaretz . <p> ' Al Jazeera ' ban tightened The so-called " Al-Jazeera law " , as it has been dubbed by the Israeli press , has been tightened , reports RSF . <p> This exceptional measure was adopted in April 2024 for a four-month period and renewed in July . <p> On November 20 , Israeli MPs voted to extend the law 's duration to six months , and increased the law 's main provision -- a broadcasting ban on any foreign media outlet deemed detrimental to national security by the security services -- from 45 days to 60 . <p> " The free press in a country that describes itself as ' the only democracy in the Middle East ' will be undermined , " said RSF 's editorial director Anne Bocand ? . <p> RSF called on Israel 's political authorities , starting with Minister Shlomo Karhi and Prime Minister Benyamin Netanyahu , to " act responsibly " and abandon these proposed reforms . <p> Inside Israel , journalists critical of the government and the war have been facing pressure and intimidation for more than a year . 
@@118867523 <h> Finding The Unmentionable : Amnesty International , Israel And Genocide <p> It was bound to happen . With continuing operations in Gaza , and increasingly violent activities being conducted against Palestinians in the occupied territories , human rights organisations are making increasingly severe assessments of Israel 's warring cause . While the world awaits the findings of the International Court of Justice on whether Israel 's campaign , as argued by South Africa , amounts to genocide , Amnesty International has already reached its conclusions . <p> In a 296-page report sporting the ominous title " You Feel Like You Are Subhuman " , the human rights body , after considering the events in Gaza between October 2023 and July 2024 , identified a " pattern of conduct " that indicated genocidal intent . These included , among other things , persistent direct attacks on civilians and objects " and deliberately indiscriminate strikes over the nine-month period , wiping out entire families repeatedly launched at times when these strikes would result in high numbers of casualties " ; the nature of the weapons used ; the speed and scale of destruction to civilian objects and infrastructure ( homes , shelters , health facilities , water and sanitation infrastructure , agricultural land " ; the use of bulldozing and controlled demolitions ; and the use of " incomprehensible , misleading and arbitrary ' evacuation ' orders ' " . <p> The report does much to focus on statements made from the highest officials to the common soldiery to reveal the mental state necessary to reveal genocide. 102 statements made by members of the Knesset , government officials and high-ranking commanders " dehumanized Palestinians , or called for , or justified genocidal acts or other crimes under international law against them . " The report also examined 62 videos , audio recordings and photographs posted online featuring gleeful Israeli soldiers rejoicing in the " destruction of Gaza or the denial of essential services to people in Gaza , or celebrated the destruction of Palestinian homes , mosques , schools and universities , including through controlled demolitions , in some cases without apparent military necessity . " <p> Advertisement - scroll to continue reading <p> From its alternative universe , the Israeli public relations machine drew from its own agitprop specialists , working on mangling the language of the report . The formula is familiar : attack the authors first , not their premises . " The deplorable and fanatical organisation Amnesty International has once again produced a fabricated response that is entirely based on lies , " came the howl from Israeli Foreign Ministry spokesperson Oren Marmorstein . <p> Other methods of repudiation involve detaching Hamas and its war with Israel from any historical continuum , not least the fact that it was aided , supported and backed by Israel for years as a counter to Fatah in the West Bank . Isolating Hamas as a terrorist aberration also serves to treat it as alien , artificially foreign and not part of any resistance movement against suffocating Israeli occupation and strangulation . They , so goes this argument , are genocidal , and countering such a body can never be , by any stretch , genocidal . The pro-Israeli group NGO Monitor abides by this line of reasoning , calling allegations of genocide against Israel " a reversal of the actual and clearly established intent of Hamas and its allies ( including its patron , Iran ) , to wipe Israel off the map " . <p> Israel 's closest ally and sponsor , the United States , proved predictable in rejecting the findings while still claiming to respect the humanitarian line . The US State Department 's principal deputy spokesman , Vedant Patel , expressed disagreement " with the conclusions of such a report . We had said previously and continue to find that the allegations of genocide are unfounded . " Patel did , however , pay lip service to the " vital role that civil society organizations like Amnesty International and human rights groups and NGOs play in providing information and analysis as it relates to Gaza and what 's going on . " Vital , but only up to a point . <p> Far less guarded assessments can be found in the American pro-Israeli chatter sphere . These follow the usual pattern . Orde Kittrie , senior fellow of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies , a name that can only imply that crimes committed in such a cause are bound to be justifiable , offers a neat illustration . Amnesty , he argues , " systematically and repeatedly mischaracterizes both the facts and the law . " Kittrie suggests his own mischaracterisation by parroting the IDF 's line that Hamas had " increased casualty counts by illegally using Palestinian civilian shields and by hiding weapons and war fighters in and below homes , hospitals , mosques , and other buildings . " This conveniently ignores that point that the numbers are not necessarily proof of genocidal intent , though it helps . <p> The report also notes that , even in the face of such tactics by Hamas , Israel was still " obligated to take all feasible precautions to spare civilians and avoid attacks that would be indiscriminate or disproportionate . " <p> Amnesty International 's report is yet another addition to the gloomy literature on the subject . Human Rights Watch , in November , pointed to violations of the laws of war , crimes against humanity , and the provisional measures of the ICJ issued urging Israel to abide by the obligations imposed by the UN Genocide Convention of 1948 . The Israeli human rights organisation B'Tselem stated in no uncertain terms in October that " Israel intends to forcibly displace northern Gaza 's residents by committing some of the gravest crimes under the laws of war " . <p> Battling over the designation of whether a campaign is genocidal can act as a distraction , a field of quibbles for paper pushing pedants . The " specific intent " in proof must be unequivocally demonstrated and beyond any other reasonable inference . A smokescreen is thereby deployed that risks masking the broader ambit of war crimes and crimes against humanity . But no amount of pedantry and disagreement can arrest the sense that Israel 's lethal conduct , whatever threshold it may reach in international law , is directed at destroying not merely Palestinian life but any worthwhile sense of a viable sovereignty . Amnesty Israel , while rejecting the central claim of the parent organisation 's report did make one concession : the country 's brutal response following October 7 , 2023 " may amount to crimes against humanity and ethnic cleansing . " <p> Dr. Binoy Kampmark was a Commonwealth Scholar at Selwyn College , Cambridge . He currently lectures at RMIT University . Email : bkampmark@gmail.com <h> Are you licensed for Scoop ? <p> Scoop is free for personal use , but you 'll need a licence for work use . This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall . Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month , and start using Scoop like a Pro . 
@@118873890 <h> Why is Israel bombing Syria ? -- ' because it can get away with it ' , says Bishara <p> Lawyer and senior law lecturer Dr Myra Williamson speaking about Israel 's violations of international law today at the New Zealand solidarity rally for Palestine in Auckland Tamaki Makaurau . . . " You have to be aware . . . that the ICC is being threatened . " Image : David Robie/APR <p> He criticised the hypocrisy of Israel 's security pretext endorsed by Western powers . <p> Asked why Israel was bombing Syria and encroaching on its territory just days after the ousting of the Bashar al-Assad regime after 54 years in power , he told Al Jazeera : " Because it can get away with it . " <p> Bishara explained that Israel aimed to destabilise and weaken neighbouring countries for its own security . <p> He noted that the new Syrian administration was overwhelmed and unable to respond effectively . <p> Bishara highlighted that regional powers like Egypt and Saudi Arabia had condemned Israel 's actions , even though Western countries had been largely silent . <p> He said Israel was " taking advantage " of the chaos to " settle scores " . <p> " One can go back 75 years , 80 years , and look at Israel since its inception , " he said . <p> " What has it been ? In a state of war . Continuous , consistent state of war , bombing countries , destabilising countries , carrying out genocide , war crimes , and ethnic cleansing . <p> " All of it for the same reason -- presumably it 's security . <p> A " Palestine will be free " placard at today 's Auckland solidarity rally for Palestine . Image : David Robie/APR <p> " Under the pretext of security , Israel would carry out the worst kind of violations of international law , the worst kind of ethnic cleansing , worst kind of genocide . <p> " And that 's what we have seen it do . <p> " Now , certainly in this very particular instance it 's taking advantage of the fact that there is a bit of chaos , if you will , slash change , dramatic change in Syria after 50 years of more of the same in order to settle scores with a country that it has always deemed to be a dangerous enemy , and that is Syria . <p> " So I think the idea of decapitating , destabilising , undercutting , undermining Syria and Syria 's national security , will always be a main goal for Israel . " <p> " They tried to erase Palestine from the world . So the whole world became Palestine . " . . . a t-shirt at today 's Auckland solidarity rally for Palestine . Image : David Robie/APR <p> In an Auckland Tamaki Makaurau solidarity rally today , protesters condemned Israel 's bombing of Syria and also called on New Zealand 's Christopher Luxon-led coalition government to take a stronger stance against Israel and to pressure major countries to impose UN sanctions against Tel Aviv . <p> A prominent lawyer , Labour Party activist and law school senior academic at Auckland University of Technology , Dr Myra Williamson , spoke about the breakthrough in international law last month with the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) arrest warrants being issued against Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defence Minister Yoav Gallant for alleged war crimes and crimes against humanity in Gaza . <p> " What you have to be aware of is that the ICC is being threatened -- the individuals are being threatened and the court itself is being threatened , mainly by the United States , " she told the solidarity crowd in Te Komititanga Square . <p> " Personal threats to the judges , to the prosecutor Karim Khan . <p> " So you need to be vocal and you need to talk to people over the summer about how important that work is . Just to get the warrants issued was a major achievement and the next thing is to get them on trial in The Hague . " 
@@118873891 <p> Hayat Al-Turki . . . " I will show you the photo of my missing brother . It 's been 14 years . This is his photo . I do n't know what he looks like , if I find him . . . . prisoners getting out . They are like skeletons . " Image : Democracy Now ! screenshot APR <p> Democracy Now ! <p> AMY GOODMAN : We begin today 's show in Syria , where tens of thousands of people gathered at the Great Mosque of Damascus for the first Friday prayers since longtime authoritarian President Bashar al-Assad was toppled by opposition fighters . <p> DAMASCUS RESIDENT : translated Hopefully this Friday is the Friday of the greatest joy , a Friday of victory for our Muslim brothers . This is a blessed Friday . <p> AMY GOODMAN : Syria 's new caretaker Prime Minister Mohammed al-Bashir was among those at the mosque . He 'll act as prime minister until March . <p> This comes as the World Food Programme is appealing to donors to help it scale up relief operations for the approximately 2.8 million displaced and food-insecure Syrians across the country . That includes more than 1.1 million people who were forcibly displaced by fighting since late November . <p> Israel 's Defence Minister has told his troops to prepare to spend the winter holding the demilitarized zone that separates Syria from the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights . Earlier today , Prime Minister Netanyahu toured the summit of Mount Haramun in the UN-designated buffer zone . Netanyahu said this week the Golan Heights would " forever be an inseparable part of the State of Israel " . <p> On Thursday , UN Secretary-General Ant ? nio Guterres called for an urgent deescalation of airstrikes on Syria by Israeli forces , and their withdrawal from the UN buffer zone . <p> In Ankara , US Secretary of State Antony Blinken met with Turkey 's Foreign Minister and the President , Recep Tayyip Erdogan . Blinken said the US and Turkey would work to prevent a resurgence of the Islamic State group in Syria . Meanwhile , Erdogan told Blinken that Turkey reserves the right to strike the US-backed Syrian Democratic Forces , led by the Kurdish People 's Protection Units ( YPG ) , which Turkey considers " terrorist " . <p> For more , we go to Damascus for the first time since the fall of longtime authoritarian President Bashar al-Assad , where we 're joined by the Associated Press investigative reporter Sarah El Deeb , who is based in the Middle East , a region she has covered for two decades . <p> Sarah , welcome to Democracy Now ! You are overlooking -- <p> SARAH EL DEEB : Thank you . <p> AMY GOODMAN : -- the square where tens of thousands of Syrians have gathered for the first Friday prayers since the fall of Assad . Describe the scene for us . <p> SARAH EL DEEB : There is a lot of firsts here . It 's the first time they gather on Friday after Bashar al-Assad fled the country . It 's the first time everyone seems to be very happy . I think that 's the dominant sentiment , especially people who are in the square . There is ecstasy , tens of thousands of people . They are still chanting , " Down with Bashar al-Assad . " <p> But what 's new is that it 's also visible that the sentiment is they 've been , so far , happy with the new rulers , not outpour -- there is no criticism , out -- loud criticism of the new rulers yet . So , I 'd say the dominant thing is that everyone is happy down there . <p> HAYAT AL-TURKI : translated I will show you the photo of my missing brother . It 's been 14 years . This is his photo . I do n't know what he looks like , if I find him . I do n't know what he looks like , because I am seeing the photos of prisoners getting out . They are like skeletons . <p> But this is his photo , if anyone has seen him , can know anything about him or can help us . He is one of thousands of prisoners who are missing . I am asking for everyone , not only my brother , uncle , cousin and relatives . " <p> AMY GOODMAN : Talk about this mad search by Syrians across the country . <p> SARAH EL DEEB : This is the other thing that 's been dominating our coverage and our reporting since we arrived here , the contrast between the relief , the sense of relief over the departure of Bashar al-Assad but then the sadness and the concern and the no answers for where the loved ones have gone . <p> Thousands -- also , tens of thousands of people have marched on Sednaya prison . It 's the counter to this scene , where people were looking for any sign of where their relatives have been . As you know really well , so many people have reported their relatives missing , tens of thousands , since the beginning of the revolt , but also before . <p> I mean , I think this is a part of the feature of this government , is that there has been a lot of security crackdown . People were scared to speak , but they were -- because there was a good reason for it . They were picked up at any expression of discontent or expression of opinion . <p> So , where we were in Sednaya two , three days ago , it feels like one big day , I have to say . When we were in Sednaya , people were also describing what -- anything , from the smallest expression of opinion , a violation of a traffic light . No answers . <p> And they still do n't know where their loved ones are . I mean , I think we know quite a lot from research before arriving here about the notorious prison system in Syria . There 's secret prisons . There are security branches where people were being held . I think this is the first time we have an opportunity to go look at those facilities . <p> What was surprising and shocking to the people , and also to a lot of us journalists , was that we could n't find any sign of these people . And the answers are -- we 're still looking for them . But what was clear is that only a handful -- I mean , not a handful -- hundreds of people were found . <p> Many of them were also found in morgues . There were apparent killings in the last hours before the regime departed . One of them was the prominent activist Mazen al-Hamada . We were at his funeral yesterday . He was found , and his family believes that -- he was found killed , and his family believes his body was fresh , that he was killed only a few days earlier . So , I think the killing continued up until the last hour . <p> AMY GOODMAN : I was wondering if you can tell us more about -- <p> SARAH EL DEEB : What was also -- what was also -- <p> AMY GOODMAN : -- more about Mazen . I mean , I wanted to play a clip of Mazen 's nephew , Yahya al-Hussein . <p> YAHYA AL-HUSSEIN : translated In 2020 , he was taken from the Netherlands to Germany through the Syrian Embassy there . And from there , they brought him to Syria with a fake passport . <p> He arrived at the airport at around 2:30 a.m. and called my aunt to tell her that he arrived at the airport , and asked for money . When they reached out to him the next day , they were told that air intelligence had arrested him . <p> AMY GOODMAN : That 's Mazen 's nephew , Yahya al-Hussein . Sarah , if you can explain ? This was an activist who left Syria after he had been imprisoned and tortured -- right ? -- more than a decade ago , but ultimately came back , apparently according to assurances that he would not be retaken . And now his body is found . <p> SARAH EL DEEB : I think it 's -- like you were saying , it 's very hard to explain . This is someone who was very outspoken and was working on documenting the torture and the killing in the secret prisons in Syria . So he was very well aware of his role and his position vis- ? -vis the government . Yet he felt -- it was hard to explain what Mazen 's decision was based on , but his family believes he was lured into Syria by some false promises of security and safety . <p> His heart was in Syria . He left Syria , but he never -- it never left him . He was working from wherever he was -- he was in the Netherlands , he was in the US -- I think , to expose these crimes . And I think this is -- these are the words of his family : He was a witness on the crimes of the Assad government , and he was a martyr of the Assad government . <p> One of the people that were at the funeral yesterday was telling us Mazen was a lesson . The Assad government was teaching all detainees a lesson through Mazen to keep them silent . I think it was just a testimony to how cruel this ruling regime , ruling system has been for the past 50 years . <p> People would go back to his father 's rule also . But I think with the revolution , with the protests in 2011 , all these crimes and all these detentions were just en masse . I think the estimates are anywhere between 150,000 and 80,000 detainees that no one can account for . That is on top of all the people that were killed in airstrikes and in opposition areas in crackdown on protest . <p> So , it was surprising that at the last minute -- it was surprising and yet not very surprising . When I asked the family , " Why did they do that ? " they would look at me and , like , " Why are you asking this question ? They do that . That 's what they did . " It was just difficult to understand how even at the last minute , and even for someone that they promised security , this was -- this would be the end , emaciated and tortured and killed , unfortunately . <p> AMY GOODMAN : Sarah , you spoke in Damascus to a US citizen , Travis Timmerman , who says he was imprisoned in Syria . This is a clip from an interview with Al Arabiya on Thursday in which he says he spent the last seven months in a prison cell in Damascus . <p> TRAVIS TIMMERMAN : My name is Travis . <p> REPORTER : Travis . <p> TRAVIS TIMMERMAN : Yes . <p> REPORTER : So , speaking in Arabic . Travis , Travis Timmerman . <p> TRAVIS TIMMERMAN : That 's right . <p> REPORTER : That 's right . <p> TRAVIS TIMMERMAN : But just Travis . Just call me Travis . <p> REPORTER : Call you Travis , OK . And where were you all this time ? <p> TRAVIS TIMMERMAN : I was imprisoned in Damascus for the last seven months . ... I was imprisoned in a cell by myself . And in the early morning of this Monday , or the Monday of this week , they took a hammer , and they broke my door down . ... Well , the armed men just wanted to get me out of my cell . And then , really , the man who I stuck with was a Syrian man named Ely . He was also a prisoner that was just freed . And he took me by the side , by the arm , really . And he and a young woman that lives in Damascus , us three , exited the prison together . <p> SARAH EL DEEB : I spent quite a bit of time with Travis last night . And I think his experience was very different from what I was just describing . He was taken , he was detained for crossing illegally into Syria . And I think his description of his experience was it was OK . He was not mistreated . <p> He was fed well , I mean , especially when I compare it to what I heard from the Syrian prisoners in the secret prisons or in detention facilities . He would receive rice , potatoes , tomatoes . None of this was available to the Syrian detainees . He would go to the bathroom three times a day , although this was uncomfortable for him , because , of course , it was not whenever he wanted . But it was not something that other Syrian detainees would experience . <p> His experience also was that he heard a lot of beating . I think that 's what he described it as : beating from nearby cells . They were mostly Syrian detainees . For him , that was an implicit threat of the use of violence against him , but he did not get any -- he was not beaten or tortured . <p> AMY GOODMAN : And , Sarah , if you could also -- <p> SARAH EL DEEB : He also said his release was a " blessing . " Yeah . <p> AMY GOODMAN : If you could also talk about Austin Tice , the American freelance journalist ? His family , his mother and father and brothers and sisters , seem to be repeatedly saying now that they believe he 's alive , held by the Syrian government , and they 're desperately looking for him or reaching out to people in Syria . What do you know ? <p> SARAH EL DEEB : What we know is that people thought Travis was Tice when they first saw him . They found him in a house in a village outside of Damascus . And I think that 's what triggered -- we did n't know that Travis was in a Syrian prison , so I think that 's what everyone was going to check . They thought that this was Tice . <p> I think the search , the US administration , the family , they are looking and determined to look for Tice . The family believes that he was in Syrian government prison . He entered Syria in 2012 . He is a journalist . But I think we have -- his family seems to think that there were -- he 's still in a Syrian government prison . <p> But I think , so far , we have not had any sign of Tice from all those released . But , mind you , the scenes of release from prisons were chaotic , from multiple prisons at the same time . And we 're still , day by day , finding out about new releases and people who were set free on that Sunday morning . <p> I want to turn to Gaza . Tell us about the Palestinians searching for their family members who went missing during raids and arrests by Israeli soldiers in the Gaza Strip . And talk about the lack of accountability for these appearances . You begin your piece with Reem Ajour 's quest to find her missing husband and daughter . <p> SARAH EL DEEB : I talked to Reem Ajour for a long time . I mean , I think , like you said , this was a pivot , but the themes have been common across the Middle East , sadly . Reem Ajour last saw her family in March of 2024 . Both her husband and her 5-year-old daughter were injured after an Israeli raid on their house during the chaotic scenes of the Israeli raids on the Shifa Hospital . <p> They lived in the neighborhood . So , it was chaotic . They Israeli military entered their home , and they were shooting in the air , or they were shooting -- they were shooting , and the family ended up wounded . <p> But what was striking was that the Israeli soldiers made the mother leave the kid wounded in her house and forced her to leave to the south . I think this is not only Reem Ajour 's case . I think this is something we 've seen quite a bit in Gaza . But the fact that this was a 5-year-old and the mom could n't take her with her was quite moving . <p> And I think what her case kind of symbolises is that during these raids and during these detentions at checkpoints , families are separated , and we do n't have any way of knowing how the Israeli military is actually documenting these detentions , these raids . <p> Where do they -- how do they account for people who they detain and then they release briefly ? The homes that they enter , can we find out what happened in these homes ? We have no idea of holding -- I think the Israeli court has also tried to get some information from the military , but so far very few cases have been resolved . <p> And we 're talking about not only 500 or 600 people ; we 're talking about tens of thousands who have been separated , their homes raided , during what is now 15 months of war in Gaza . <p> AMY GOODMAN : Sarah El Deeb , we want to thank you for being with us , Associated Press investigative reporter based in the Middle East for two decades , now reporting from Damascus . <p> Next up , today is the 75th day of a hunger strike by Laila Soueif . She 's the mother of prominent British Egyptian political prisoner Alaa Abd El-Fattah . She 's calling on British officials to pressure Egypt for the release of her son . We 'll speak to the Cairo University mathematics professor in London , where she 's been standing outside the Foreign Office . Back in 20 seconds . 
@@118900222 <p> On November 20 , New Zealand 's National Party-led government passed a law banning the wearing of gang insignia in public . The ban targets mainly Maori gangs to prevent them wearing jackets and clothing emblazoned with their identifying " patches . " <p> The law bans displaying gang insignia in all public places . Courts can issue non-consorting orders to prevent gang members communicating and associating , and police have increased arrest powers . Repeat offenders can be banned from even owning a " patch , " with police empowered to search and seize patches from private homes . <p> Greater weight will be given to gang membership in court sentencing , providing for " more severe punishments " for unrelated criminal convictions . Justice Minister Paul Goldsmith told Radio NZ that " being a gang member should always be an aggravating factor " in any sentencing process . <p> The legislation is part of the far-right government 's sweeping " law and order " agenda targeting the most alienated and vulnerable layers of society , including impoverished youth and welfare beneficiaries . Sooner rather than later , the crackdown will extend to the wider working class . The anti-democratic measures are being imposed amid a vast restructuring of social relations involving tax cuts for the wealthy , thousands of workers being thrust into unemployment and growing poverty and homelessness . <p> In a joint statement on the ban , Goldsmith and Police Minister Mark Mitchell -- an ex-private military contractor in Iraq -- boasted that the " free ride for gangs is over . " Goldsmith claimed that to " earn the right to wear a patch you have to have committed violent crime . There are a trail of tears and victims behind each one of those gang patches . " No evidence was provided for these lurid accusations based on guilt by association . <p> Advertisement - scroll to continue reading <p> The police wasted no time exercising their new powers . The first arrest was made just three minutes after the law came into effect , with 12 people charged on the first day . Later that week , a huge police presence , including a police helicopter , was mobilised in the small Bay of Plenty community of Matapihi for Mongrel Mob member 's Maori tangi , or funeral . Several arrests were made , prompting an outpouring of anger and shouts of " disrespect " from mourners . <p> Like bike gangs in other countries , including Australia , these outfits are frequently alleged to be involved in drug importing and distribution and other crimes . They are socially backward , with some flaunting Nazi symbols and exhibiting violence towards women . Inter-gang reprisals and shootings are not uncommon . New Zealand 's gangs are mainly , but not exclusively , focused on recruiting marginalised Maori youth , without jobs or stable families . <p> The outlawing of gang regalia is , of course , no solution to the complex social issues involved . A significant number of gang members have come out of extremely abusive state institutions . A royal commission of inquiry recently found that from 1950 to 2019 more than 250,000 people were abused or neglected while in foster care , schools , orphanages , psychiatric hospitals and other places . <p> A recent study undertaken by the police themselves , " Understanding Policing Delivery , " identified patterns of bias , unfair treatment , racism and excessive use of force by police against gang members . This has contributed to " longstanding community distrust of law enforcement across generations , " particularly among Maori . One gang member said : " Police do n't really represent rescue for me . They represent coming to break the family up . " <p> The New Zealand Herald noted in an editorial that 90 percent of New Zealanders , particularly in the major cities , only ever have " chance encounters " with gangs and therefore would n't need to be " sleeping safer " now that gangs are not wearing their insignia . <p> The legislation is in reality intended to set a precedent that can be readily applied more broadly to political organisations deemed to be threatening or " intimidatory . " Left-wing and oppositional groups will be first in line to be proscribed . The wearing of keffiyeh by protesters opposing the genocide in Gaza is already being cracked down on internationally and could well be illegalised and targeted . <p> There are attempts to create a climate of fear and suspicion towards the anti-genocide protests . The New Zealand Security Intelligence Service issued a statement on December 10 declaring that " a terrorist attack is a realistic possibility " and claiming that there were " anti-Semitic and Islamophobic narratives " linked to " the Israel/Gaza conflict , " without elaborating or providing any examples of the alleged antisemitism . <p> Another plank in the government 's escalation of state repression is the campaign against so-called " youth crime , " which played a major role in the 2023 election . As part of this , the National Party and its far-right coalition partners -- ACT and New Zealand First -- have created a Young Offender Military-Style Academy , commonly known as a boot camp , for 14-17 year-olds . <p> A pilot program -- with " military style activities " and a special curriculum -- is being run by the child welfare agency Oranga Tamariki . In the first three months , 10 recidivist offenders were placed in Palmerston North 's youth justice facility before transitioning to a closely supervised in-community phase for nine months . <p> The trial has already proved to be a debacle . One of the participants released into the community died last month in a car crash involving three vehicles , which injured 14 others . Two other 15-year olds subsequently absconded , one while attending the young man 's funeral , and went on the run from police . At least one other has allegedly reoffended . <p> A bill currently before parliament creates a " framework " for military-style boot camps being written into law . Children 's Commissioner Claire Achmad has defended the current trial but warned that if the bill passes it will " move us further away from a children 's rights approach to our youth justice system . " <p> Criminology professor Elizabeth Stanley was more scathing , writing for Newsroom that international research shows boot camps are " the worst criminal justice response we can take . " Boot camps are " criminogenic , " Stanley wrote . " They create more crime , rather than reduce it . The kids ' fall out ' tougher and quicker . " <p> The royal commission into abuse in care highlighted multiple heinous acts , including beatings and rape , against youth sent to a state-funded boot camp that operated on Great Barrier Island from 1988 to 2004 , under successive Labour and National Party governments . <p> The normalisation of military-style institutions is also bound up with the needs of the ruling class to funnel more working class youth into the armed forces , as New Zealand and Australia are increasingly integrated into US-led plans for imperialist war against China . <p> Other " law and order " measures being implemented include : <p> The reintroduction of " three strikes " laws that force judges to impose the maximum possible sentence when someone is convicted with a third " serious offence . " <p> Plans to restrict the right of an accused person to trial by jury , increasing the number of judge-only trials . <p> The prison system is being significantly expanded with the expectation of hundreds more people incarcerated . <p> This punitive agenda is directly connected to the intensifying social crisis . To slash public spending and attack the living standards of the working class , a massive assault on jobs is under way . Unemployment in the September quarter was 4.8 percent , up from 4.2 percent earlier in the year , with 148,000 officially unemployed . <p> With the economy tanking , the government has launched a sweeping new sanctions regime on welfare beneficiaries . These include : compulsory " work check-ins " ; penalties for those who fail to attend interviews ; establishing a community-based " work for the dole " system , and requiring Jobseeker Support recipients to reapply every six months . <p> The repressive laws are not aimed primarily at gangs . Their purpose is to suppress the inevitable class struggles that will erupt against poverty , unemployment , the assault on working conditions and public services , and imperialist war . The working class must prepare , above all by building the necessary socialist and internationalist party that will lead the political struggle against the capitalist system , which is the source of war and social inequality . <h> Are you licensed for Scoop ? <p> Scoop is free for personal use , but you 'll need a licence for work use . This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall . Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month , and start using Scoop like a Pro . 
@@118900257 <p> Speaking from Gaza , Jonathan Dumont said many people have been displaced multiple times , and that families are living either in tents or in the rubble of collapsed buildings , with no access to electricity or running water . <p> The text has been edited for length and clarity . <p> UN News:How do you describe the situation on the ground in Gaza , after more than a year since the war erupted there ? <p> Jonathan Dumont : The devastation is absolutely staggering . This year , I 've been to Goma , Port-au-Prince , Khartoum , a lot of different places where people have issues getting food or have been displaced . But in Gaza , I have n't met anyone who has n't been displaced at least two or three times , due to military activity . <p> Almost everyone has lost their home . In the south , a lot of people are living in tents , and with the winter coming , you have rain and wind blowing them over , flooding them . Most kids do n't have shoes . <p> A lot of people feel they have no choice but to go back to their homes , which are quite frequently , literally rubble . I met a few families who are living in basically the cement blocks that have collapsed over them , and there 's no electricity , running water or sewage . This is the second winter for many of them that they 're homeless . <p> UN News:You 've been to the northern part of Gaza . Can you tell us more about what you saw there ? <p> Advertisement - scroll to continue reading <p> Jonathan Dumont : I 've been to Gaza City , although I did n't go to the areas in the far north . Gaza City is a huge city but many of the buildings have been destroyed . Before you had villas , beach cabanas and a fishing port , and now it is just a ghost town . <p> WFP is able to reach that area , so there 's some food there , but the food prices of what 's not coming from the international community , or from WFP , are through the roof . There was someone selling peppers for 195 dollars ... five dollars for one pepper . People ca n't afford that . <p> Bakeries are being treated as banks -- with metal slots and a metal corridor to channel people through because people are desperate , and they do n't want people to get injured or crushed trying to get food . <p> In Khan Yunis , where we are distributing hot meals , people get really desperate -- you can see it in their faces , in their eyes . <p> You can listen to the full interview here : <p> United Nations News * Devastation in Gaza is ' absolutely staggering ' <p> UN News:The IPC report warned of the acute hunger and maybe some of people are on the verge of famine . Do you think the food insecurity is getting worse in Gaza ? <p> Jonathan Dumont : The problem is that there 's been a total breakdown of society here , there 's no police , no infrastructure or any of the structures of society . As a result , what we 've had in the southern part of Gaza is that gangs are emerging . We 've had our trucks coming in from the south looted , and our drivers beaten . <p> We are trying to find solutions to have a consistent flow of food in . Obviously , the easiest way to do that would be if there was a ceasefire , which we are always hopeful will happen . In the absence of that , we need to find a way of getting all the food that we have outside Gaza into the country so that people can access it . We need to make sure people have access to food . <p> UN News:Many of the bakeries are not functioning . How many of them are working at full capacity ? <p> Jonathan Dumont : In the south there is none of the WFP 's bakeries which are big volume bakeries . In the north there are some , but in the south , there are just small bakeries , so people are improvising when they have some flour . <h> Are you licensed for Scoop ? <p> Scoop is free for personal use , but you 'll need a licence for work use . This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall . Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month , and start using Scoop like a Pro . 
@@118900335 <p> Israel 's military , when contacted by AFP for comment , said it is " looking into the reports " . <p> Bassal earlier told AFP that rescuers working through the night recovered the bodies of 18 people . He said dozens more were injured in the " ongoing aggression and Israeli aerial and artillery bombardment " across Gaza . <p> The dead included at least three children , Bassal said , adding that four people were killed in an Israeli airstrike targeting a house in central Gaza City . <p> Another four were killed , and eight injured , when an Israeli missile hit a tent sheltering dozens of displaced people in Deir el-Balah in central Gaza . <p> The Israeli military has been conducting a large-scale operation in northern Gaza for several weeks , stating that its objective is to prevent Hamas fighters from regrouping . <p> In early December , United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres highlighted the devastating toll of the conflict and the urgent need for international action . <p> " Malnutrition is rampant ... Famine is imminent . Meanwhile , the health system has collapsed , " Guterres said . <p> Medics in Gaza report severe shortages of medicines in hospitals amid the ongoing military assault . <p> The fighting has also resulted in casualties among medical workers , further straining the healthcare system . <p> " We are suffering from a shortage of medical staff as a result of the targeting and the martyrdom of a large number of doctors and nurses , " said Hossam Abu Safiyeh , director of Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza , in a statement to journalists . <p> He said Israeli airstrikes and shelling continued to target the hospital and surrounding areas , exacerbating the crisis and endangering both patients and staff . <p> Israel 's military has denied targeting the hospital directly . <p> The war in the Gaza Strip was sparked by Hamas ' October 7 , 2023 , attack on Israel that resulted in the deaths of 1208 people , mostly civilians , according to an AFP tally of Israeli official figures . <p> Since then , Israel 's retaliatory offensive has killed at least 44,976 people in Gaza , a majority of them civilians , according to figures from the Hamas-run territory 's Health Ministry that the United Nations considers reliable . 
@@118900360 <h> Share this article <p> The Banksy exhibition has arrived in Wellington , and with it , a graffiti-themed stay at QT Wellington , writes Katrina Bennett <p> When one thinks of Wellington one thinks creative , edgy , eclectic and political . One thinks windy and cultured with a generous serving of suit-and-tied public servants . <p> It 's diverse and it 's colourful , attracting those wanting to speak truth to power and challenge the status quo . <p> It 's a place that unsurprisingly provides the perfect backdrop for an exhibition by English street artist and political activist Banksy . <p> The Art of Banksy exhibition opened at Takina , Wellington 's new exhibition centre , last week . It 's the largest collection of authentic works by the artist and is running for seven weeks throughout the summer . <p> To celebrate , QT Wellington has put together a package to make the most of the attraction and bring the street art inside . It includes a night in the hotel 's new graffiti room , two tickets to the exhibition , two cocktails and breakfast . <p> For us , it was a staycation , a chance to recharge amid end-of-year madness and a welcome break from the kids . To be honest , a night in a hotel room with a decent sleep was inviting enough . <p> What I did n't expect was the weekend to rekindle my fondness for Wellington and remind me why we chose it as a place to set down roots . <p> It 's been a tough year for the capital with endless headlines about public sector job cuts , business closures and council ineptitude . <p> It 's easy to buy into the narrative about a city " dying " , but beneath that facade there 's a city still absolutely buzzing with delectable food , colourful characters and inspiring art . <p> It seemed too perfect that on our arrival at QT Wellington the president of one of NZ 's main political parties was seated in the Gallery Lounge . A perfect illustration of how in this city politics and art really do mingle and mix . <p> Childless and fancy-free we started our escape with a drink . <p> For the duration of the exhibition , a special Art of the Spirits menu is on offer , serving up three cocktails inspired by both Banksy and Wellington . We ordered all three . <p> The Golden Mile - love it or hate it - is a brilliant take on one of the city 's most contentious transport projects , and the Q Tease a flirty ( and beautiful ) take on a martini . <p> The Art of Spirits cocktails at QT Wellington . Photo / Supplied <p> It was our first stay at QT Wellington despite having lived in the city for some 15 years . Getting to our room on the hotel 's " iconic " Gallery 4 level took some time as we wandered around taking in the quirky and captivating art adorning the walls . <p> As a special treat for guests , Wellington artist Aidan Walb ? kken has decorated a new " graffiti room " where art lovers can stay to maximise their Banksy experience . <p> He 's described it as a room where people can be " totally immersed in art " and he 's not wrong . As soon as you walk in it is loud , bright , energising and fun . <p> A large balcony provides a sweeping view of Wellington 's waterfront , and the bathroom is the epitome of luxury with a rain shower , freestanding bath and Dyson hair dryer . <p> Situated on Tory St , the hotel sits right in the heart of Wellington 's entertainment district . We made the most of our night in the city with dinner out and more cocktail sampling , enjoying the best of the capital 's hospitality industry . <p> Luckily the room comes with breakfast , meaning sore heads from over-indulgence be damned . A long , lazy stint in the Hippopotamus restaurant had us refuelled and caffeinated , ready to hit the exhibition . <p> For any fan of Banksy , the exhibition delivers a wondrous walk through his career , enhanced by an energising soundtrack featuring the likes of Blur , Portishead , Massive Attack and The Chemical Brothers . It 's a full experience . <p> But even for those who are n't familiar with , or do n't particularly like his art , it 's topical and it 's relevant with pieces challenging perspectives on the likes of the war in Gaza , sexuality and consumerism . <p> Inspired and re-energised - as much by the music as the art - we headed back to QT for a special Graffi-Tea High Tea . <p> In a tribute to all that is beautiful , delicious and rebellious , Chef Antoine Collet has taken graffiti and street art and transformed them into three tiers of delectable bites . <p> There are five accompanying teas to sample , our favourite being the outrageously good lemon sorbet . <p> The Graffi-Tea High Tea is a feast for the senses . Photo / Supplied <p> QT Wellington 's General Manager Colin McClean says they 're trying to bring some of Banksy 's " rebellious energy " into the hotel with this package and create something unique for guests that encapsulates everything they stand for -- art , unexpected experiences and quirky luxury . <p> From our experience , they 've more than delivered . <p> Our short stay took us back to the edgy streets of London and Belfast where our relationship first started , to the bars and restaurants we used to frequent before parenthood settled us down , to the hedonism and activism of our youth . 
@@118900588 <h> 2024 -- The Year we Collectively Failed ( with one tiny silver lining ) <p> In Gaza and the West Bank , Israel 's immoral genocide continued with gruesome efficiency . The moment IDF soldiers pack raped a teenage Palestinian prisoner in front of other teenage Palestinian prisoners to psychologically torture them AND THEN have the Israeli electorate back those tactics is a true marker of how evil the Israelis themselves have mutated into because of the Occupation . <p> When you commit terrible evil to cement into place your legitimacy , then you become terrible evil . <p> That we allow the IDF to holiday in NZ to help them chill out from committing war crimes is deeply insulting to everything we as Kiwis stand for . <p> The woke identity politics clique suddenly realised they had cancelled all the voters with their pure temple politics and had made the Left as appealing to working class males as a cup of cold sick while the Trans activists went very quiet after the Cass Review painted the movement out as little more than a middle class cult . <p> It was the year of adult diagnosis of ADHD . <p> A Venn diagram of woke activists screaming that you are transphobic alongside adults who suddenly declare they have ADHD would be a perfect circle . <p> Despite the belief of the woke , not one family in poverty was sitting around the kitchen table cancelling each other for misusing pronouns , they were trying to work out how to pay the bills and when they turned to the Left for solutions to their pain , they found flakey word salad feelings instead of actual policy . <p> The woke are great at organising free the nipple protests with militant kink friendly mommy blogger vegans on bikes , not so good at challenging the neoliberal hegemonic structure . <p> China 's economy continued to fall while the West locked into importing inflation from just-in-case supply chains replacing just-in-time supply chains . <p> This never ending inflation burns the working classes in the West and that pain leads them to elect authoritarian figures . <p> Trump 's landslide win played to this global dynamic of economic anxiety . <p> Those who claim Trump has a mandate and the ' majority ' misunderstand what that means . <p> Just because you have the majority , does n't mean you are right , it just means you have power . <p> Look at what Trump is doing with that power . <p> He is appointing the most Ghoulish Cavalcade of Political Circus Freaks , this is a Rogues Gallery of Supervillains , people , who are acolytes and loyalists before they are intelligent people . <p> They are cogs in his machine . <p> A terrible , terrible , terrible machine . <p> America was always a Military Industrial Complex death machine but now Trump 's United States of Wounded Masculinity has elected a naked Plutocracy . <p> Trump 's brand of Orange Fascism has used the UNDERmensch to empower the UBERmensch . <p> That 's a very clever joke . <p> The ' majority ' are n't right just because they are the majority and we are seeing that in NZ . <p> Majoritarianism is not Democracy ! <p> The NZ Political Right have mistaken anger at Labour as a mandate for culture war vengeance ! <p> 2023 was n't an election , it was a grudge fuck against Labour by an embittered post Covid electorate who were economically insecure , alienated by woke dogma and heart broken that all Labour could do with a once in a generation MMP majority was ' good first steps ' rather than transformational leaps . <p> It has resulted in a Hard Right Racist Government bound together only by a shared glee in bashing beneficiaries , workers , renters , prisoners , the environment , gang members , drug addicts and the disabled . <p> They all have a particular dislike for Maori and have used attempts at co-governance to fulfil the promise of the Treaty ( which is our collective obligation ) as a weapon with which to cement into place 19th Century White Settler Privilege and call that ' democracy ' . <p> They are doing this fundamentally for their donor 's interests who want to be able to rape the environment without consulting with da Maaaris . <p> In a modern liberal democracy , you acknowledge the power imbalance created in society and you resource to ensure those power imbalances are compensated for ! <p> In a liberal progressive democracy , it does n't matter what role you play in the complex super structure of our society and economy . <p> It does n't matter of you are a garbage collector , a dr , a nurse , a drain layer , teacher or tradie -- if you all stopped doing your jobs the system ca n't work . <p> Everyone deserves to share the collective harvest of civil society with public services and policies focused on the public good enshrined in the intrinsic civil liberties each individual has . <p> Wealthy individuals who become mega rich thanks to the landscape generated by those values are required to pay more back into the system they have benefited from beyond the bare necessity of ruthless accountancy practices . <p> The Political Right are screaming that imposing Qanon talking points as social policy , destroying workers rights , Tobacco deaths for tax cuts and taking $555million from the poorest families are all acceptable because they have the Majority so fuck everyone else ! <p> That 's why on the first day of the Government there were nationwide protests . That 's why in the first week of the new Government global headlines were attacking our u-turn on gas and oil exploration and smoking policy . <p> That 's why 84 000 protested in Wellington last month <p> That 's why their resistance is the silver lining to a year of collective failure ! <p> More Kiwis see the Treaty as a source of hope than a means for division , that alone saved 2024 ! <p> Dismantling the values of a liberal progressive democracy to cement into place 19th Century White Settler privilege using culture war vengeance as social policy IS NOT Democratic , it 's majoritarianism without any of the values of a true Democracy . <p> You ca n't shit on Renters , Maori , the Environment , Workers , Beneficiaries and Prisoners while pretending to be democratic . <p> That 's the zeal of the Lynch mob , that 's not Democracy ! <p> Look at how this hard right Government have traded the common good for their donor mates interests FFS ! <p> Majoritarianism is the whip of the autocrat masquerading as legitimacy . It has none of the soul or wisdom that a Democracy requires to be meaningful . <p> 2024 was the Year we Collectively Failed . <p> A gathering of Trumps is called a ' Sociopath of Trumps ' <p> Increasingly having independent opinion in a mainstream media environment which mostly echo one another has become more important than ever , so if you value having an independent voice -- please donate here . <p> Yeah well ; how do we get up tomorrow morning and resolve to fight another day ? Because that 's what we , born of the working class , and yes the left " woke " have had to do forever . And will have to do tomorrow , and the next day , and the next year . Or else , we might as well just give up and ask Mister Luxon " Can I have some more Sir " to quote a famous Charles Dickens story . <p> Still have n't grasped it yet have you Darien ? The Labour ' woke ' are needed to be kicked out of Labour . You and your woke type cost Labour the election , in saying that though , I 'm pleased you are all still around to ruin the next election for them too ! ' Labour woke ' , the gift that keeps on giving to the right votes . Good on ya sister . <p> " A gathering of Trumps is called a ' Sociopath of Trumps ' " Let 's wait and see ? I know , I know . Trump is orange and is evil etc but let 's wait and see . A German film director once said to me as we sat in a rental car watching a cluster fuck evolve into a catastrophic cluster fuck . " Azzumptions are zi mozer off all fock ops . " Look to home here ? What a fucking mess . Unless you 're the PM who , by his own words , is rich and comfortable . Who would n't be on 484,200.00 PA plus perks ? Ol Luxon aye . Mr Rich N Comfortable . Naked Mole Rat man.https : **33;886;TOOLONG RNZ Auckland foodbanks face closure , reducing services as funding to stophttps : **35;921;TOOLONG ... 
@@118900589 <h> The Infamous TDB Media Awards 2024 <p> They were always the voice of corporate interest and neoliberal mythology and when everyone was making money from selling each other houses it was fine , but then covid ripped the security blanket from many who fell down rabbit holes and that collective anger turned on NZ media and we 've been screaming abuse at them ever since . <p> Newshub gone , the entire news service from Maori TV gone , TVNZ News gone , Fair Go gone , 14 regional newspapers gone , Spinoff sinking and Trump 's landslide pointing to Podcasts being the new media , which is funny because The Working Group won best Current Affairs Podcast 2024 . <p> When a Marxist and Libertarian attacking each other is the dystopian future of tomorrow 's current affairs , today -- then the system has collapsed ! <p> The one silver lining was Waatea Digital who managed the jump to nonlinear broadcasting better than anyone else this year and was the only media network that grew . <p> - Sponsor Promotion - <p> The truth is the Fourth Estate in this country is a defanged lap dog rather than guard dog . <p> We now have social media platforms that are suppressing news in favour of conspiracy theory algorithms which are generating an electorate of brainwashed , incel , racist , climate denying , anti science , feral vaccine cooker cultists who have turned New Zealand into Q Zealand ! <p> We have a Prime Minister more focused on pulling duck faces for tictok than actually governing in any meaningful way . <p> Winston 's claim last year that the entire mainstream media were bribed by the Public Journalism Fund is a Conspiracy Swamp Kingdom myth that claims the mainstream media carried pro-vaccination propaganda so Jacinda could take over everyones immunity systems for a shadowy One World Government child molesting satanic cult . <p> No issues there with the Deputy Prime Minister spouting full blown conspiracies as if they are the fucking proclamations from Christ himself ? <p> No issues at all ? <p> None ? <p> No one ? <p> We are so fucked for the next 2 years ! <p> Here are the winners and losers of TDBs infamous annual Media Awards . Time to crack out those grudges and ensure another year of personal animosity before all the mainstream media outlets collectively fail . <p> Seasons greetings ! <h> WORST TV ADVERT- Why is TVNZ getting into Mobile Phones ? <p> Why the fuck is TVNZ getting into the mobil phone market ? <p> They are the Public Broadcaster , this bullshit advert about some Maori fella teenager searching for his Mum amongst the Scottish Highlands is not what their core business should be ! <p> TVNZ should be focused on public broadcasting not broadcasting to the public ! <p> TVNZ can barely do the pittance they are currently doing , why move into mobile phones ? <p> Their Board should all be sacked for allowing the News and Current Affairs departments to wither and die while allowing Seven Sharp to remain ! <p> A curse on everyone at TVVNZ , what a stupid idea to branch into Mobile Phones ! <p> Wait a moment Sportsfans , my phone is ringing . <p> Hold on , I 'll get back to this attack on how stupid it is for TVNZ to get into the mobile phone market right after I take this phone call : <p> " Hello " ? <p> " What " ? <p> " It 's not an advert for TVNZ ? What ? " <p> " It 's called One NZ , that 's the TV1 channel name " . <p> " What " ? <p> " One NZ is Vodaphone " ? ? ? <p> " But why would you change your name to one that is immediately confused as the TVOne News network " ? <p> " What sort of cocksucker fuckwit would damage their own brand by naming it something totally eclipsed by an existing brand " ? <p> " Wow " . <p> Comrades I 've just been informed that ONE NZ is actually Vodaphone who have decided for reasons beyond comprehension to rename themselves that is automatically confused for TVNZ , so all that hilarious shitting on TVNZ and Vodaphone was wrong of me . <p> Hilarious though . <p> The decision by Vodaphone to rename themselves something that immediately confuses them with another brand is as clever as Uber Eats bizarre decision to remind people who are ordering food of menstrual blood . <p> I 'm not sure many people want to think about menstrual blood when they are ordering food . <p> Who is this for ? <p> Vampires ? <p> While we are talking adverts , has anyone noticed that the Big Save advert and that yoghurt advert are the exact same advert ? <p> It 's about two Maori blokes who have a dream sequence for something ' real ' , it 's almost an identical advert , I hope someone got a discount because it feels like a shared creative moment there . <p> Consumerism has walked away from adverts and is pushing money towards influencers and social media bribed algorithms . <p> I think I 'm the only person left watching TV as these empty adverts beg me to become emotionally available to them . <p> Hilariously the TVNZ mobile phone adverts attracted the most complaints for the sex scene in it . <p> We are a nation of prudes . <h> WORST TV SHOW -- 7 Sharp <p> With the collapse of Fourth Estate Journalism confronting NZ at the same time social media Tech Bros strangle off advertising revenue while circumventing democracy with hate algorithms , we need a clear eyes assessment of TVNZs crucial role as the public broadcaster in our democracy . <p> Dump Seven Sharp . <p> Dump the whole thing . <p> Seven Sharp is a sad indictment of making citizens into consumers and its dumbing down of the once crucial 7pm current affairs pulpit reflects all that is wrong with the media eco system . <p> Dump 7 Sharp and replace it with the most important public broadcasting journalist we have , John Campbell . <p> Cut costs by making it a studio based live interview show with a few side journalists and camera teams to do background pieces on the topics selected . <p> Make it talking head TV where John is given the scope to do the Fourth Estate Journalism our Democracy desperately needs . <p> Save money by making it studio based talking head TV while empowering TVNZs obligations to real Fourth Estate Journalism , not whatever Sunday had become . <p> Now is the time for something dynamic and cheaper than infotainment current affairs . <p> It would generate ratings , lower costs and give TVNZ the mana of being a public broadcaster worth tuning in for . <p> NZ Democracy needs John Campbell holding the powerful to account at 7pm weeknights , it does n't need Hilary giggling at a face that Jeremy pulls . <p> To date the TVNZ Board have shown a level of cowardice in not standing up for the fourth estate obligations TVNZ has , cutting Seven Sharp and bringing back a studio based John Campbell would bring back mana to our public broadcaster . <p> Fuck Seven Sharp is terrible . <h> BEST CRIME STORY -- Steve Braunias coverage of the Polky Trial <p> Hand on heart I was going to cancel my subscription to the NZ Herald because fuck them taking money for that hateful Hobson 's pledge advert ! <p> Pretending some Pom who was in the country for 5 days and warbled ' we are all one people " at the signing of the Treaty in Maori somehow means Maori ceded sovereignty is one thing , but pretending that ' da Maaaaris is stealing da beaches ' as their advert insinuated is a total fabrication and malicious lie ! <p> I just ca n't cancel until the end ! Braunias has a way with language , a way with words where crucial moments in this terrible torrid awful murder trial are painted by him as painfully human and gloriously divine in equal measure . <p> The tender contempt Braunias has for the oafish Law students , the parasitically ghoulish mainstream journalists , the great unwashed who congregate to gawk . <p> It 's all so awful in a beautifully awkward kiwi way . <p> A loquacious gaucheness that stumbles and gapes at a murder trial that manages to boil down the facade of the Professional Middle Class Boomers into a puddle of drug fuelled orgies on a burning planet at the end of Late Stage Capitalism . <p> Murder or suicide . <p> What a bleak Claytons choice . <p> I was genuinely surprised by the lack of solid scientific evidence that connected Polky to strangling her in a meth rage , moving her body , staging the suicide and then calling the Police . <p> Most killers in a meth rage go troppo with violence to the body , none of that remotely happened here . <p> It is far more likely that this caring 60 year old woman , who had done all she could for this lewd leprechaun privileged Boomer , simply took her own life out of the empty hollow sadness her life had become because of his addictions . <p> I do n't think he murdered her , but I certainly think he killed her . <p> I think the police were so taken aback by his double life they immediately assumed he could have murdered his wife . <p> The Officer who finally made the decision to arrest and charge Polkinghorne was either : <p> a ) An easily shocked pearl clutching Christian . <p> b ) Shocked by how much it had cost to date and demanded a prosecution to justify the cost . <p> c ) Bored True Crime Podcast enthusiast . <p> I think Polkinghorne was the voyeuristic trial we needed as the planet burns during late stage capitalism . <p> Bloated with privilege Boomers , pumped full of money and power , denigrating the personal lives of their loved ones for vice and orgiastic greed ending in a murder or suicide . <p> Is there a more fitting tawdry crassness for a country with all the active culture of yoghurt ? <p> This is a sad grim story of addiction , privilege and terminal sadness that I do n't believe we ever needed to know or hear about because the idea that he murdered her and dragged her into a faked suicide scene simply has n't been proved anywhere near beyond reasonable doubt . <p> I think there are going to be some real question marks over why this case needlessly exposed Pauline Hanna 's lonely and intimate pain . <p> Congratulations to Bernard Hickey for winning Silver for The Hoon , he is NZ 's most important political economic commentator and his voice is more important than ever and the Bronze for the BHN Crew who have revolutionised late night online podcasts . <p> Damien Grant would like to thank Free Market Capitalism . <p> I would like to thank Jacinda Ardern , Marx , Lenin , Black Jesus and Medicinal Cannabis . <p> The Revolution wo n't be televised , but it will be on a podcast . <h> BEST INVESTIGATIVE JOURNALIST -- Aaron Smale <p> Hi , I 'm Chris Luxon and I have let everyone in this photo down.Welcome to New Zealand <p> Aaron Smale has been at the forefront of exposing how the Wellington Bureaucracy first enabled the abuse of 250 000 kids and then hid that abuse using appalling legal tactics to silence them and minimise that abuse . <p> His investigative series on Newsroom highlights the terrible means with which the Wellington Bureaucracy went to hide the abuse of children and then adopted despicable tactics to derail that knowledge getting out and to avoid legal precedence . <p> He was banned from attending the official apology by Speaker Gerry Brownlee because the Prime Minister 's department asked him to be banned because he had apparently been aggressively asking Chris Luxon hard questions about the tactics the state used to destroy victims . <h> BIGGEST STORY 2024 -- Aaron Smale 's investigation into the State abusing those abused in State Care <p> Aaron 's exposure of what the State really did to the victims of its abuse is devastating ... <p> The adolescent unit at Lake Alice psychiatric hospital was the first case where the Crown faced civil litigation . The hospital was set up for criminally insane adults , not vulnerable children . But in the early 1970s the Department of Social Welfare starting sending wards of the state to Lake Alice , where they would be tortured by Dr Selwyn Leeks and his staff with electric shocks and other cruel and degrading treatment . They were also raped and sexually abused by adult patients and staff . <p> There were a number of people who gave evidence at the Royal Commission 's redress hearing and the hearing on Lake Alice itself . But speaking on behalf of the Crown was the Solicitor-General Una Jagose . Jagose had been deeply involved in the Crown 's response to state abuse both as a Crown lawyer in the 2000s and more recently as the Solicitor-General , a role she took up in 2016 . If anyone was aware of the Crown 's response to allegations of abuse , it was her . <p> Central to the commission 's inquiries into Lake Alice was the question of whether Leeks ' use of an electro-convulsive therapy machine was legitimate medical treatment or a heinous form of torture inflicted on children . There were many expert witnesses who came down unequivocally on the latter . One compared it to tactics used by the Gestapo . Jagose could only concur . <p> In her evidence Jagose said : " The record itself showed that Dr Leeks and other staff were using ECT and other forms of things that are treatment as behavioural modification and/or punishment for those purposes and not for treatment . " <p> But she was pushed to say more about what the Crown knew . Speaking of the litigation that started in the 1990s -- which included Leoni McInroe , who was the first to file a civil case -- Jagose acknowledged that the Crown knew from its own files that Leeks ' methods were unacceptable as medical treatment . <p> " Dr Leeks , was using treatment methods to punish and attempt to modify behaviour in a way that the Crown then , and still , thought was unacceptable , an unacceptable way to treat those children , and did n't put any of them to proof over that because the proof was right there in the file , in the very systems that the hospital and Dr Leeks ran , " she said . <p> So the Crown had always known that what Leeks was doing was not acceptable treatment . It knew this because it had documentary evidence in its own files . Despite this knowledge , the Crown responded to victims in ways that put them through more trauma by denying their allegations or expecting them to prove them in a court ; the Crown held overwhelming documentary evidence these allegations were true but withheld this evidence on numerous occasions . <p> The coup de grace arrived when Jagose was asked point-blank whether what was inflicted on children at Lake Alice met the UN 's definition of torture . <p> Jagose had to admit that it did , although she wound her way to an answer through a long series of legalistic qualifiers . <p> " Torture has three elements . Infliction of pain and suffering , mental , physical ; no doubt that has been met . By an arm of the state or a person acting on a part of the state ; also no question that has been met . <p> " The key question is the purpose for which that pain and suffering was inflicted . The allegations are that it was done for a punishment and where those allegations are made out by a fact-finder , might be the Inquiry , it might be the court , then that is three elements met -- torture . <p> " As alleged , that conduct meets the three criteria for torture . " <p> It was this answer , given under oath on behalf of the Crown , that became the cornerstone of the Royal Commission 's finding that what happened at Lake Alice was torture , although there were plenty of other bricks of evidence to build that conclusion . <p> Jagose 's admission and the Royal Commission 's finding of torture compounded a previous finding from another institution -- the United Nations . The UN 's Committee against Torture had made a finding in 2020 that New Zealand was in breach of the Convention Against Torture . This finding was in response to a complaint filed by the Citizens Commission of Human Rights on behalf of Lake Alice survivor Paul Zentveld , alleging that New Zealand had failed to investigate the Lake Alice allegations properly , as it was required to do under the Convention which New Zealand ratified in 1988 . This ratification was then embedded in domestic legislation in the Crimes of Torture Act ( more on this later ) . <p> One of the outcomes of the UN 's finding was that the police had to then open up another investigation into Lake Alice -- the fourth -- after telling victims for decades that there was not enough evidence to prosecute . This position became untenable with the UN 's decision and under the scrutiny of the Royal Commission . The police gave a formal statement at the commission 's Lake Alice hearing , apologising to victims for its failure to properly investigate . That included a failure to even speak to more than a dozen victims who had made formal complaints that they 'd been sexually assaulted and raped . <p> The police investigation in response to the UN finding found there was more than sufficient evidence to prosecute Leeks and other Lake Alice staff , but it was too late because Leeks was unfit to stand trial and died shortly after . <p> Despite this , when police made formal requests for specific categories of documents to Crown Law in early 2020 , some crucially relevant documents were not given to police . This included the file of Leoni McInroe that included a medical report stating unequivocally that what happened to her at Lake Alice was not medical treatment , it was medical misadventure . This report was written in the 1990s and had it been acted on in the legally appropriate way , the outcomes would have been very different . For one , it 's likely that Leeks would have been convicted of crimes . But that alternative history did n't happen . What did happen is this report and other evidence was not given to a number of agencies , including the police , sending the whole trajectory in a different direction . It was not given to police during the investigation that concluded in 2010 when Judith Collins was Minister of Police . <p> ... they knew it was torture and they went on to cover it all up ... <p> But Una Jagose 's involvement in the Crown 's response to the abuse of children in state custody long predates her evidence at the Royal Commission . She has been involved over the past 20 years , with a number of others , including Collins . <p> " Political and public service leaders spent time , energy and taxpayer resources to hide , cover up and then legally fight survivors ... " <p> So who else was aware of these crimes and what was their response ? <p> The Royal Commission 's report makes clear there was a repeated failure to disclose " relevant information damaging to the Crown case " . <p> The UN 's finding that New Zealand was in breach for failing to investigate Lake Alice can principally be laid at the feet of Helen Clark 's government , but it had its genesis even earlier and continued on into the John Key government . There was a failure to look for information and a failure to provide it to the relevant authorities to do their job to investigate criminal offending against children and breaches of international law . <p> There had been failures to investigate in the 1970s when racial justice advocate Dr Oliver Sutherland and his colleagues at ACORD ( Auckland Committee Opposed to Racial Discrimination ) exposed abuse occurring at institutions like Owairaka and later at Lake Alice . An inquiry into Lake Alice at this time was essentially a whitewash and crucial evidence was withheld . <p> But when victims became adults they began filing civil litigation against the Crown in the 1990s regarding Lake Alice . The first victim to file a case was Leoni McInroe , represented by Rob Chambers QC . Another group of nearly 100 victims were later represented by lawyer Grant Cameron . <p> Bill English was the minister of health in the National government of the 1990s before the role was handed off to Wyatt Creech . During internal discussions regarding the claims made in civil cases about Lake Alice , officials and ministers from other government departments were also alerted to allegations of sexual and physical abuse in social welfare homes . Many of the Lake Alice victims had been through these institutions before they got to Lake Alice . Agencies including Social Welfare , Treasury and the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet were looped in to these discussions . Dame Margaret Bazley was chief executive of the Department of Social Welfare at the time . <p> In 1998 a paper was presented to Cabinet by English and countersigned by Dr Janice Wilson , director of mental health and chief advisor . <p> Collins ' denial at the United Nations that New Zealand committed torture was not only not true . It was also an insult to the victims and continued the 50-year injustice they 'd experienced since their childhoods . <p> The central claims and the facts underlying the civil claims around Lake Alice were clearly known to the government by this stage . The Cabinet paper outlined them , stating : <p> " Their principal allegation is that they received paraldehyde and/or unmodified electroconvulsive therapy ( ECT ) for the purpose of punishment . Unmodified ECT is ECT without anaesthetic or muscle relaxant to counter the side effects of this form of treatment . Paraldehyde is an anti-convulsive drug . It can cause extreme pain when used extramuscally . <p> " This treatment is alleged to have been administered by nursing staff at the hospital and by the unit 's head Dr Selwyn Leeks . The former patients also allege that they were sexually and physically abused by adult patients at the hospital and by staff . <p> " The claims relate to the period 1972 and 1978 . At that time the majority of the former patients ranged in age from 10 to 14 . <p> ... look at the legal tricky that was used to force the abused into being further traumatised ! <p> The Royal Commission of Inquiry into abuse in state care looked into the Crown 's litigation strategy against survivors who filed legal claims about their abuse . It said the the conduct of the Crown went beyond mere neutral defence of claims . <p> It included " causing long , avoidable delays and failing to keep claimants adequately informed of the progress of their cases " as well as : <p> failing to disclose relevant information damaging to the Crown case <p> opposing reasonable adjournment requests , despite a lack of prejudice to the Crown , when a claimant 's lawyer was without funding <p> cross-examining witnesses to suggest survivors should have , as children , disclosed abuse at the time the abuse happened , or avoided the abuse <p> cross-examining witnesses to suggest survivors were lying and colluding even when the evidence showed they were more than likely to be telling the truth <p> making applications for costs against survivors personally , and making applications for orders that would have required the plaintiff to pay costs if they had not been funded by legal aid . <p> I appreciate people are busy and life is hard , but the State abused quarter of a million kids and then did everything to avoid accountability . <p> 80% of those in gangs were abused in State care . <p> The trauma of the original damage plus the trauma of the legal process were all caused by the State and when the Investigative Journalist who has unearthed most of this terrible story is banned from attending the Apology because they have asked hard questions of the Prime Minister -- well , what can you say but spit contempt and bile ? <p> Ummmmmmmm . I 'm not sure how to tell you all this , but ZB Troll Heather Du Plessis Allan , fresh from denigrating the Hikoi and trying to downplay the 80 000 who marched , has lashed out at Willie Jackson and concluded that his recent attacks on her radioactive toxic venom means that Willie Jacson is sexually attracted to her . <p> I kid you not <p> Ummmmmmmmmm . <p> Ok . <p> Interesting she thinks any attention towards her is actually desire from that person rather than legitimate criticism at her radioactive toxic anti-Maori perspective . <p> Firstly , Willie had time to appear on The Working Group and not your show because our podcast beats you every week in the podcast charts . <p> Secondly I love how the ZB Troll farm bleat their independence when of course ZB was State funded , State set up and when it privatised changed into the right wing hate pus pit it has become , so sure Heather is n't on a state funded media channel , but she sure as Christ benefited from it once being a State asset now did n't she ? <p> Heather du Plessis-Allan is claiming that the NZ Left have misread the room and that middle New Zealand are horrified by the anger Maori have expressed over a piece of legislation that 40 Kings council , the Crowns own lawyers and almost every single credible voice has been devastatingly critical of ... <p> Treaty Principles Bill : National and Labour have failed to read the room on hikoi and Middle NZ reaction -- Heather du Plessis-Allan <p> ... no , no , no ! <p> That Haka has been watched 700 million times ! <p> An unprecedented 80 000 turned to protest at Wellington ! <p> It 's you Heather who has misread the room ! <p> Blaming Maori for reacting to an appalling piece of legislation is nothing short of victim blaming . <p> The Political Right have tossed a hand grenade into our Race Relations and are now running around complaining that everyone is angry at them for throwing . hand grenade into our race relations ! <p> That Heather believes Willie Jackson is sexually attracted to her as his reason to denounce her radioactive far right slop is just so Mike Hosking level narcissism is n't it ? <p> Oh and in case Heather thinks me being critical of her means I have a ' crush ' on her as well , allow me to be as clear as possible Heather . <p> I think your race relations hatred is all that is wrong in NZ media and your right wing hot takes are shallow , stupid and deeply hollow . <p> Heather , you are as attractive to me as dogs vomit . <p> I hope that has cleared up any confusions . <p> WORST POLITICAL INTERVIEW -- Luxon 's infamous " I 'm entitled " shocker <p> If NZ was Air NZ , Luxon only cares about First Class , Business Class and considers joking with the Pilots as working class . <p> Those in cattle class are the middle classes &amp; those who work outside the plane are the Bottom Feeders who never get to fly . <p> They exist to maintain the privilege of those who are flying . <p> This is the new class system of NuZilind . <p> The shock by almost the entire Press Gallery at how poorly Luxon handled this Accomodation subsidy at the start of the year where he said , " Im Entitled ' 30 times in the space of 5 minutes alongside his , " I 'm Rich , I 'm sorted ' comment highlights Luxon 's tone deaf entitled evangelical prosperity theology privilege . <p> I love how easy it is to read Luxon . <p> He is a gut politician , his first response to any social issue is a really weird and tone deaf statement that always exposes how genuinely Old Testament conservative Christian he really is with all the fake sincerity of an Air NZ safety advert masquerading as a corporate diversity virtue signal . <p> Before he was PM , he would walk these statements back in 24 hours , now he is PM , they 've sent him to an expensive CEO weekend retreat on learning to be dominant to butch him up because Seymour , Winston and the Corporate Interests are having a field day playing him like chump . <p> That 's why we 've seen him stick to robotic CEO KPI language and when challenged , simply repeating the same talking points but louder and with a stern look on his face . <p> What 's interesting about his refusal to immediately admit mistake and change is that he did it with the EV subsidy as well . While he was damning Labour for the EV Subsidy , he was intending to use it himself and apparently the rumour is they really had to argue internally against him taking it because it was such a bad look . <p> He clearly used it for his wife 's car , but his intent to get it for himself and the amount of time it took to convince him was astonishing . <p> The reason Luxon refused to back down on gaining stuff is because of his evangelical prosperity theology privilege . In Luxon 's branch dividend , Prosperity Theology preaches that the ordained and blessed by God are afforded huge wealth and prosperity . <p> It 's like Abraham 's blessings but on meth . <p> It 's what Bishop Brian Tamaki believes in . <p> The Bish has a huge gold watch , beautiful houses and expensive motorcycles because God loves Brian ever so much he is publicly blessing him with prosperity to bring more souls to Christ . <p> Hiding your prosperity when Jesus has given you the wifi password to heaven is considered a terrible shame . <p> For Luxon , him having 7 properties ( 3 of which he has sold right after tax changes he implemented ) is proof positive that Jesus loves him , and hiding any of the prosperity and privilege that comes with being loved ever so much by Jesus is sinful . <p> Chris dug his heels in over his EV subsidy and paying himself $1000 per week to hire his own apartment while demanding brutal austerity for everyone else because Jesus loves him dammit ! <h> BEST DOCUMENTARY -- WITNESS -- PRAYING FOR ARMAGEDDON -- Al Jazeera <p> As difficult as this is to believe , Evangelical Republican Christians believe in a literal interpretation of the Bible , and as such , believe that if they whip up Israel/Palestinian conflict , they themselves can trigger the Armageddon . <p> This documentary follows Evangelical Republican Christians raising funds for Zionist organisation to go into the West Bank and illegally seize Palestinian land IN THE HOPE of causing violence and the end of days . <p> Trump making Jerusalem Israel 's capital sparked the violence that helped elect the Zionist fanatics that started the conflict we are seeing erupt in Gaza now . <p> That 's why the Evangelicals love Trump so much , they think he will start the prophecy for the end of the world . <h> BEST NETFLIX -- The Octopus Conspiracy <p> The Death of Danny Casolaro has always been steeped in mystery and this powerful 4 part series gives us an insight into the pure evil of CIA domestic operations . <p> The 9 part series on the Bomb highlights the blowback CIA actions cause externally during the Cold War , but what American Conspiracy does is look at the impacts of CIA domestic operations that caused enormous damage inside America . <p> Danny Casolaro was a journalist working on an explosive book that detailed a domestic Rogue CIA campaign that was part Organised Crime and part corporate greed wedded to a far right Republican agenda . <p> I first heard of Casolaro in the late 1990s , he was ' found dead ' in 1991 just as he was finishing this book and the case never stacked up and only added to the very deep suspicion that Casolaro was murdered before the book could be published . <p> The story starts like any great story does , after picking apart a weird Department of Justice ruling against . small tech firm who had provided them with a new software program so advanced that the Department t of Justice just decided to steal the tech . From that moment on a bewildering carousel of spooks and rogue spies amalgamate around this story and opens up vast new story lines as Casolaro attempts to trace a crazy cavalcade of conspiracies all emanating out of the CIA and NSA . <p> The level of corruption from the possible holding up of Iranian hostages so that Reagan could win to using Indian Reserves as sovereign territory to build biological weapon factories on so that the CIA could fund dirty wars using drug money is just so extraordinary . <p> The manner in which The Wackenhut Corporation ( which looks like a private mercenary side hustle for CIA and NSA directors ) has been used to enrich these rogue mafia like spooks is extraordinary and gives a real sense of how dystopian things have become in America . <p> The Military Industrial Complex murders at will and there is no force inside America that can reign them in . <h> BEST PRIME -- The Rings of Power <p> TBH I was very late to The Rings of Power , because I thought after Peter Jackson , who on earth could ever match that , but I have been so surprised by how good it is I have become a staunch fan . <p> It 's really good , not Game of Thrones Good , but really close . It 's like Wicked but with more dragons . <p> The backlash from people who do n't think mythical beings can be anything other than white seems to say more about them than the artistic direction . <h> BEST DEBATE -- The Iwi/Peewee Treaty Debate <p> The Working Group hosted the greatest Treaty Debate ever and it became the most watched podcast of 2024 ! <h> TRAINWRECK INTERVIEW 2024 -- The Infamous Todd Stephenson Interview <p> Comrades , Brothers and Sisters . <p> I do n't use the term ' Skull Fuck ' often . <p> It 's a strong phrase , the literal definition of which requires the insertion of ones penis through a hole in the head to simulate sexual intercourse into warm spongy brain matter . <p> It 's a terrible term and a yucky mind image . <p> None of us are better for it as a people , as a species nor as a culture . <p> However . <p> Unfortunately for ACT it 's the only way to describe the extraordinary interview between Steve Braunias and ACT 's Arts spokesperson , Todd Stephenson . <p> And when I say , ' Skull Fuck ' I mean it as in , ' Steve Braunias Skull Fucked Todd Stephenson ' , I do n't want any misunderstandings ... <p> It took Act 's arts spokesman Todd Stephenson 20 minutes to think of a single New Zealand author and a single New Zealand book . The only artistic experience he could think of is that he went to see Hamiltonin New York . His only press release on the arts has been to issue an empty threat about funding cuts to Creative New Zealand because he was upset Tusiata Avia was awarded the Prime Minister 's Award for Poetry . His central philosophy about government arts funding is the less , the better ; he doubted that the majority of New Zealanders want their tax dollar spent on the arts . And yet Stephenson likely earns the basic MP salary , paid for by the taxpayer , of $163,000 , in return for a paltry 2807 votes in the Southland electorate . <p> ... it 's the most brutal , most funny take down ever in NZ politics . <p> It 's so good you deserve to respect it by going to the host site and giving them your clicks . <p> But you do n't have individual tastes yourself , do you ? You 're kind of an arts ignoramus , really , by your own reckoning . <p> No , I certainly have individual things that I like to go to . We talked about that earlier . <p> You 've been to see Hamilton . <p> Well , I was just giving you an example of the things I like to do . <p> What are your tastes , other than musicals ? <p> That 's the main one in the creative sector . <p> Musicals . <p> And I watch movies . I watch TV . <p> " I watch TV , " says the Act spokesman for the arts . <p> Creative things are on TV , are they not , Steve ? <p> Any New Zealand authors come to mind yet ? Any ? While the interview has progressed , I thought maybe one might have occurred to you . <p> Well , Alan Duff is probably the last one I would have read . <p> What book of his did you read ? <p> Everyone has read Once Were Warriors . <p> Did you read it ? Or did you just see the movie ? <p> No , I read it a while ago . <p> So that 's it . The only New Zealand book you can think of is Once Were Warriors , published in 1985 . <p> I mean , I 'm being honest with you , Steve , it 's a portfolio I 'm wanting to learn more about . But what are you hoping I will learn from this portfolio ? As the literary editor of Newsroom , what are you hoping I will learn from understanding more about this portfolio in the sector ? <p> I do n't know if I 'm hoping for anything from you . But a little bit of knowledge and expertise , and enthusiasm for the arts , would n't have gone amiss . <p> Yeah , and as I said , I 'm starting out learning more about the sector . I have n't got deeply into it . <p> You 've spoken to an actor and a couple of other people . <p> ... that 's a taste , it actually gets better and funnier . <p> It 's not a train wreck , it 's a train full of special needs children smashing into another train full of puppies exploding next to a Kitten pet shop . <p> Sweet Zombie Jesus it is such an extraordinary exchange that manages to utterly destroy the reputation of a politician with all the nuance of a misfiring suicide vest . <p> It 's a self mutilation you ca n't stop watching because you are laughing so hard . <p> It 's like Stephenson got his tongue stuck to a icy lamp post and manages to ' free ' himself by cutting down the lamp post , causing it to land on him and ripping his tongue off . <p> If you thought Prince Andrew did a bad interview , it ai n't nothing on Todd Stephenson 's . <p> I actually had to check with someone to make sure this was n't satire . <p> It 's real . <p> ACT 's agenda is really this awful and Todd is this thick . <p> Our Arts and Creative sector deserve more than someone who thinks they are an expert because they watched Hamilton FFS . <h> Best News Story 2024 -- Willie Jackson at Oxford -- Maori TV <p> The amazing piece on Willie 's Oxford Speech is the best thing you will see on TV this year ... <p> ... watch this and tell me Willie does n't deserve our respect ! <h> Final word : <p> I 've been in the NZ media now for 30 years , and over that time I 've noticed the things you can and ca n't say in the NZ media landscape . Here are the list of topics that you simply are NOT allowed to discuss on NZ mainstream media . <p> Palestine : You can not talk about the brutal occupation of Palestine by Israel in NZ media . It 's just not allowed , any discussion has to be framed as ' Poor Israeli 's being terrorised by evil angry Muslims ' , there is never focus on the brutal occupation and when it ever does emerge in the media it 's always insinuated that any criticism is anti-Semitism . Watching Israeli apologists bleat this phrase or that phrase is antisemitic when 20 000 Palestinian dead blot out the sun from war crimes and ethnic cleansing is gasp inducing at its audacity and sophistry . <p> Child Poverty NEVER adult poverty : We only talk about child poverty because they deserve our pity . Adults in poverty can go fuck themselves . Despite numbering around 800 000 , adults in poverty are there because they ' choose ' to be there . The most important myth of neoliberalism is that your success is all your own , as is your failure . If an adult is in poverty , neoliberal cultural mythology states that is all on them and we have no obligation to help . That 's why we only ever talk endlessly about children in poverty because the vast majority of hard hearted NZers want to blame adults in poverty on them so we can pretend to be egalitarian without actually having to implement any policy . <p> The Neoliberal NZ experiment : You are never allowed to question the de-unionised work force that amputated wages , you can never question selling off our assets , you can never criticise the growth uber allas mentality , you are never allowed to attack the free market outcomes and you ca n't step back and evaluate the 35 year neoliberal experiment in NZ because you remind the wage slaves of the horror of it all . <p> Class : You can not point out that the demarcation line in a capitalist democracy like NZ is the 1% richest plus their 9% enablers vs the 90% rest of us . Oh you can wank on and on about your identity and your feelings about your identity in a never ending intersectionist diversity pronoun word salad , but you ca n't point out that it 's really the 90% us vs the 10% them class break down because that would be effective and we ca n't have effective on mainstream media when feelings are the currency to audience solidarity in an ever diminishing pie of attention . <p> Immigration : It must always be framed as positive . It can never be argued that it is a cheap and lazy growth model that pushes down wages and places domestic poor in competition with International student language school scams and exploited migrant workers . Any criticism of Immigration makes you a Xenophobe and because the Middle Classes like travelling and have global skills for sale , they see any criticism of migrants as an attack on their economic privileges . <p> Hyper Tourism : We are never allowed to ask ' how many is too many you greedy fucks ' . The tourism industry that does n't give a shit about us locals , live for the 4million tourists who visit annually . We are not allowed to ask why that amount of air travel is sustainable , we are not allowed to ask why selling Red Bull and V at tourist stops is somehow an economic miracle and we are certainly not allowed to question why these tourists are n't directly being taxed meaningfully for the infrastructure they clog . <p> Dairy as a Sunset Industry : We are never allowed to point out that the millisecond the manufactured food industry can make synthetic milk powder , they will dump us as a base ingredient and the entire Dairy Industry overnight will collapse . With synthetic milks and meats here within a decade , it is time to radically cull herds , focus on only organic and free range sustainable herds and move away from mass production dairy forever . No one is allowed to mention the iceberg that is looming up in front of the Fonteera Titanic . <p> The Trans debate : This debate is so toxic and anyone asking any question gets immediately decried as transphobic . I 've seen nuclear reactor meltdowns that are less radioactive than this debate . I 'm so terrified I 'm not going to say anything other than ' please do n't hurt my family ' for even mentioning it . <p> It 's never climate change for this catastrophic weather event : Catastrophic weather event after catastrophic weather event but it 's never connected to global warming ! It 's like the weather is changing cataclysmically around us but because it 's not 100% sure that cigarette you are smoking right now is the one that causes that lump inside you to become cancer , so we ca n't connect this catastrophic weather event with a climate warming model that states clearly that we will see more and more catastrophic weather events . <p> Scoops : No NZ media will ever acknowledge another medias scoop despite a united front being able to generate more exposure and better journalism . <p> Te Reo fanaticism : You are not allowed to point out that barely 5% of the population speak Te Reo and that everyone who militantly fires up about it being an ' official language ' never seem that antagonistic about the lack of sign language use . Look , my daughter goes to a Maori immersion class and when she speaks Te Reo it makes me cry joyfully and I feel more connected to NZ than any other single moment , but endlessly ramming it down people 's throats seems woke language policing rather than a shared cultural treasure . You can still be an ok human being and not speak Te Reo . <p> The Disabled : Almost 25% of NZ is disabled , yet for such a staggeringly huge number of people , theire interests get sweet fuck all mention in the mainstream media . <p> Corporate Iwi : You ca n't bring up that the corporate model used for Iwi to negotiate settlements is outrageous and has created a Maori capitalist elite who are as venal as pakeha capitalists . <p> Police worship : One of the most embarrassing parts about living in NZ is the disgusting manner in which so many acquiesce to the fucking cops . It 's never the cops fault when they shoot someone , it 's never the cops fault when they chase people to their death , it 's never the cops fault for planting evidence , it 's never the cops fault for using interrogation methods that bully false confessions out of vulnerable people . I think there is a settler cultural chip on our shoulders that always asks the mounted constabulary to bash those scary Maori at the edge of town because we are frightened of what goes bump in the night . We willingly give Police total desecration to kill and maim with very little in terms of check and balance . It 's sickening . <p> House prices must increase FOREVER ! Too many middle class folk are now property speculators and they must see their values climb to afford the extra credit cards the bank sends them . We can never talk about house prices coming down . They must never fall . Fuck the homeless , fuck the generations locked out of home ownership and fuck the working poor . Buying a house is only for the children of the middle classes now . Fuck everyone else . Boomer cradle to the grave subsidisations that did n't extend to any other generation uber allas baby ! Free Ben and Jerry Ice Cream for every Boomer forever ! ME ! ME ! MEEEEEEEEEEEE ! You 'll also note that because so many media are dependent on real estate advertising , there 's never been a better time to buy ! <p> That was the year in media 2024 where all the predicted meltdowns of the media actually took place . <p> The media industry faces more challenges as the new hard right Government turn off the funding taps and the social media platforms strangle off their appearance in newsfeeds . <p> Podcasts look like the only vehicle left to be able to actually debate the issues without cancellation or censorship . <p> We are privileged to be able to enjoy free speech in this country and we hope that The Daily Blog adds to the zeitgeist of our collective debate . <p> Increasingly having independent opinion in a mainstream media environment which mostly echo one another has become more important than ever , so if you value having an independent voice -- please donate here . <h> 3 COMMENTS <p> The rings of power turned the orcs -- an artificially created race of pure evil -- in to poor misunderstood repressed folk just wanting emancipation . Kind of the exact opposite of Tolkiens tale of actual good maintaining hope and fighting the overwhelming odds of actual evil . Sure good and evil are subjective in the modern world without the old religions but it 's why the original story resonates . <p> Rings of power is very very woke , a very stupid " remake " of Tolkien 's premise . 
@@118900604 <p> Attacks:There are no safe places for the militarily-dominated population in Gaza , who find themselves subjected to airstrikes and other missile attackson buildings , homes and many essentialfacilities , as well as constant gunfire and invasions by Israeli forces.The Israeli Navy continues to fire missiles , targeting facilities and buildings along the entire Gaza shoreline . <p> Victims:55more people have been killedwithin the past 48 hours , bringing the total number killed in Gaza since 7 Octoberto at least44,930 . Another 170have been wounded , bringing that total to 106,624 . The daily average number of men , women and children killed in Gaza is at least 103 ; that of those injured is now more than 246 . <p> Study Finds 96% of Gaza Children Fear Imminent Death -- <p> And Half Want to Die <p> " The world 's failure to protect Gaza 's children is a moral failing on a monumental scale , " said one advocate . <p> Amid a relentless Israeli onslaught that has wrought monumental physical and psychological destruction in Gaza , a report published this week revealed that nearly all children in the embattled Palestinian enclave believe their death is imminent -- and nearly half of them want to die . <p> The Gaza-based Community Training Centre for Crisis Management , supported by War Child Alliance , surveyed more than 500 Palestinian children in Gaza last June and found that 96% of them fear imminent death , 92% are not accepting of reality , 79% suffer from nightmares , 77% avoid discussing traumatic events , 73% display signs of aggression , 49% wish to die because of the war , and many more " show signs of withdrawal and severe anxiety , alongside a pervasive sense of hopelessness . " <p> " This report lays bare that Gaza is one of the most horrifying places in the world to be a child , " War Child U.K. CEO Helen Pattinson said in a statement . " Alongside the levelling of hospitals , schools , and homes , a trail of psychological destruction has caused wounds unseen but no less destructive on children who hold no responsibility for this war . " <p> " The harm caused to Gaza 's children goes beyond statistics . Behind every number is a name , a life , and a future that is being extinguished before it can even begin , " Iain Overton , executive director of the U.K.-based group Action on Armed Violence , said in response to the new report . <p> " The world 's failure to protect Gaza 's children is a moral failing on a monumental scale , " he added . " We must act decisively and compassionately to ensure that these children 's voices are heard and their futures protected . " <p> In October , the UK-based charity , Oxfam International , said that Israel 's year -- long assault on Gaza has been the deadliest year of conflict for women and children anywhere in the world over the past two decades . A year ago , the United Nations Children 's Fund called Gaza " the world 's most dangerous place to be a child . " Earlier this year , UN Secretary-General Ant ? nio Guterres , for the first time , added Israel to his so-called " List of Shame " of countries that kill and injure children during wars and other armed conflicts . <p> " The international community must act now before the child mental health catastrophe we are witnessing embeds itself into multi-generational trauma , the consequences of which the region will be dealing with for decades to come , " Pattinson stressed . " A cease-fire must be the immediate first step to allow War Child and other agencies to effectively respond to the intense psychological damage children are experiencing . " <p> Addressing the complicity of allies like the United States , Germany and Britain , who provide weapons and diplomatic cover for Israel , progressive UK parliamentarian Jeremy Corbyn wrote on social media in response to the new report , " Every single supplier of arms to Israel has blood on its hands -- and the world will never forgive them . " <p> Israeli Army population -- control : Hebron -- 01:00 -- 07:40 , the Israeli military raided both the Hebron University and Polytechnic University campuses during a raid on the city , **26;776;TOOLONG flyers on buildings . <p> Occupation settler armed violence and population -- control:Nablus -- 14:05 -- 15:00 , an armed guard , from the Yitzhar Occupation settlement , set -- up a checkpoint on the road and held up vehicles travelling between the villages of Asira al-Qibliya and Urif . <p> Leslie Bravery is a Londoner with vivid World War Two memories of the Nazi blitz on his home town . In 1947/1948 His father explained to him what was happening to the Palestinians thus : " Any ideology or political movement that creates refugees in the process of realising its ambitions must be inhuman and should be opposed and condemned as unacceptable . " What followed confirmed this assessment of the Zionist entity a hundredfold . Now a retired flamenco guitarist , with a lifelong interest in the tragedy of what happened to the Palestinian people , he tries to publicise their plight . Because the daily injustices they suffer barely get a mention in the mainstream news media , Leslie edits/compiles a daily newsletter , In Occupied Palestine , for the Palestine Human Rights Campaign . These days , to preserve his sanity , he enjoys taking part in a drama group whenever possible ! 
@@118906328 <h> Australia denies some Israeli soldiers visas over war crimes -- PSNA urges NZ to do same <p> Australia has tightened scrutiny of Israeli soldiers making visa applications over their possible involvement in genocidal acts in the war on Gaza . Image : Middle East Eye screenshot APR <p> Asia Pacific Report <p> Israeli soldiers have been denied visas to enter Australia over war crime concerns -- and the New Zealand government is now being called on by Palestine solidarity activists to act immediately to stop Israeli soldiers visiting . <p> Some Israeli soldiers have been denied visas to enter Australia after being required to fill in a 13-page form designed to determine if they had been involved in war crimes against Palestinians in Gaza . <p> This follows last month 's ruling from the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) , which issued arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defence Minister Yoav Gallant for war crimes and crimes against humanity over atrocities committed since October 7 last year . <p> However , Israelis coming to New Zealand face no such requirements , says the Palestine Solidarity Network ( PSNA ) <p> Since 2019 , Israelis have been able to enter New Zealand for three months without needing a visa . This visa-waiver is used by Israeli soldiers today for " rest and recreation " from the genocide in Gaza . <p> " We face having Israeli soldiers rejected by Australia over war crime concerns jumping on a plane to New Zealand , " said PSNA national chair John Minto in a statement . <p> ' Suspend all IDF visas ' call " We can not depend on Israeli soldiers to give accurate reports of their involvement in war crimes so we have asked the government to suspend all visas for Israelis who are serving or who have served in the Israeli Defence Force IDF . " <p> United Nations officials , the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) and now Amnesty International have all used the term genocide to describe the actions of the Israeli military in Gaza where more than 45,000 People -- mostly women and children -- have been slaughtered by the IDF . <p> " All the red flags for genocide have been visible for months but our National-led coalition government is giving the green light to those responsible for war crimes to enter New Zealand . <p> " New Zealand 's response to genocide in Gaza has been a cowardly refusal to stand up for the Genocide Convention which requires us to ' prevent and punish ' the crime of genocide . <p> " This needs to change today . " <p> Former Israeli justice minister barred Australia 's recent denial of visas to two Israeli soldiers -- siblings in one family -- follows a similar case involving the former Israeli Justice Minister Ayelet Shaked , who was denied a visa last month over fears of " incitement " , reports the Middle East Eye . <p> The Australian Department of Home Affairs told the former Israeli justice minister she had been denied a visa to travel to the country under the Migration Act . <p> The act allows the government to deny entry to individuals likely to " vilify Australians " or " incite discord " within the local community . 
@@118936546 <p> Donald Trump , the president-elect , remains in Mar-a-Lago for now , but even without a presidential seal behind him has taken to holding discussions with world leaders beyond the typical congratulatory calls which occur in the post-election period . <p> And it 's increasingly becoming clear that US-Iran policy will be an arena where one of the biggest shifts in the US 's posture will occur . A Wall Street Journal report in November unveiled the discussions underway about " maximum pressure 2.0 " -- a return to an updated version of the hardline policy platform the first Trump administration deployed against Iran with the expressed intention of cutting off the country 's nuclear program and weakening its government and state economy . <p> The plan was also aimed at countering Iran 's support for armed militant groups around the Middle East , an effort which continued into the final days of the controversy-laden first Trump presidency . In January of 2021 , just days before Trump left office , his administration designated the Yemen-based Houthi rebel group a Foreign Terrorist Organization ( FTO ) . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> That decision was short-lived , however , as incoming president Joe Biden reversed the designation almost immediately upon taking office . <p> Biden 's own Iran policy was muddled for the entirety of his four years in office . The most clarity the US president himself gave on the matter came on a ropeline comment to a supporter in November of 2022 , when he admitted that the 2015 Iran deal signed under the last Democratic administration was " dead " and not coming back . US-Iran relations had few developments until October 7 , 2023 , when it largely shifted to public and private warnings against direct Iranian aggression against Israel . <p> A return to a " maximum pressure " policy will mean confronting Iran both directly and indirectly , through the marginalization of groups like the Houthis that allegedly receive support from the Iranian Revolutionary Guard ( IRGC ) and other organizations . The Houthis face an inevitable FTO redesignation and a renewed focus by the Trump administration , with Hezbollah in a severely weakened state due to the US-backed Israeli assault on Lebanon . Hamas , meanwhile , is due to face an Israel soon to be wholly unrestrained by its US backers . <p> Senator Ted Cruz , an ally of the incoming president whose own foreign policy views trend slightly more traditionally conservative , said last week that the first priority of US 's Middle East policy must be to " not simply reach an end to the conflict . It is Hamas being utterly and completely defeated . And that is exactly what I believe will happen under Trump , and that is an enormous blow to Iran as well . " <p> Senator Ted Cruz called the total destruction of Iranian-backed militant groups including Hamas a regional priority for the incoming Trump administration . ( The Independent ) <p> Cruz spoke to The Independent briefly as he departed a briefing sponsored by the Organization of Iranian American Communities ( OIAC ) , a group aligned with an international network of Iranian dissidents and exiles . Maryam Rajavi , the president-elect of the network known as the NCRI , spoke to the gathering of lawmakers and Senate staffers on Wednesday ( Dec 11 ) . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> That briefing was attended by a spectrum of senators ranging from right-wing to center-left , including two Democrats : Jeanne Shaheen and Cory Booker . With just a handful of senators , the grouping revealed how the full ideological range of the traditional Washington foreign policy consensus ( which has never included progressives ) seems eager to return to the aggressive posture against Iran emblemized by Trump 's first term . Many of the speakers touched on the presumed strategic blows suffered by Tehran with the fall of Syria 's government and the Israeli killing of Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah . <p> Trump may satisfy that consensus -- and go beyond it -- when he comes to power in January . The Wall Street Journal separately reported this week that the Trump team is weighing the possibility of direct military action to strike Iranian nuclear and weapon production facilities , something that has long been seen as the last-ditch option for preventing Iran 's theocratic autocracy from obtaining a nuclear missile . <p> At least part of that shift in policy comes from the president-elect 's own anger resulting from news that the federal government thwarted an Iranian plot to assassinate him this year , Trumpworld insiders suggested to the Journal . <p> Whether direct military action is on the table remains to be seen , but what is certain is that the incoming administration will put the squeeze back on Tehran . Despite the State Department 's denials , many international Iran experts agree that the Iranian government has found ways around US sanctions on its oil sales under the Biden administration , causing Republicans to accuse the White House directly of ignoring enforcement of US law as a matter of policy . Trump 's team will likely search for ways to ramp up enforcement of existing sanctions while slapping new ones into place . <p> Rajavi , the NCRI 's president-elect , spoke to the gathering via video conference from Paris . Her remarks were nonpartisan but predicted that IRGC forces in Iran would , like Assad 's forces , " melt like snow under the summer sun " and declared that the Iranian government was " the strategic loser of the war it started " with its backing of Hamas in Gaza . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Sam Brownback , the former Trump administration ambassador at-large for religious freedom , also spoke at the briefing . In an interview with The Independent , he confirmed that he believed resuming sanctions pressure and political isolation of Tehran would provide the catalyst needed for such a civilian uprising in Iran to occur . <p> " It has to have a political component to it , " said Brownback . " I mean , we backed solidarity quietly , but we backed it . We need to back the people , the groups , that opposed the regime in Iran publicly , we need to say : These are freedom fighters . We support you . " <p> " What Iran has lost right now is their influence with an oppressive leader , and to use Syria as a land bridge to supply some of the most awful terrorists with resources and funding , " Booker , who had described Iranian-American dissidents in the briefing as his " family " , said to a handful of reporters as he headed to votes . <p> Senator Cory Booker was one of two Democratic senators who spoke at a bipartisan gathering of Iran hawks on Capitol Hill last week , a sign that the Trump administration could find much political support in DC on issues of Iran policy . ( The Independent ) <p> Shaheen , another Democrat , added in her prepared remarks : " Iran has been dealt a significant blow . Their leadership ... is on their back feet . The events in Syria demonstrate the fundamental weakness at the core of Iran 's regional strategic policies . " <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> She added to reporters afterwards that she and other Democrats would likely be able to work with the incoming administration on policies aimed at countering the regional influence of Tehran . <p> The Biden administration made little progress on the issue of reaching a diplomatic resolution to the ongoing question of Iran 's nuclear weapons program , which the US maintains it will stop at all costs . <p> That fact , combined with the accelerated pace at which the Trump team is engaging with US partners abroad , makes it increasingly clear that Washington is moving on from an administration whose stewardship of the Middle East receives mixed reviews even on the left . 
@@118963488 <p> Attacks:There are no safe places for the militarily-dominated population in Gaza , who find themselves subjected to airstrikes and other missile attackson buildings , homes and many essentialfacilities , as well as constant gunfire and invasions by Israeli forces.The Israeli Navy continues to fire missiles , targeting facilities and buildings along the entire Gaza shoreline . <p> Victims:52more people have been killedwithin the past 48 hours , bringing the total number killed in Gaza since 7 Octoberto at least45,028 . Another 203have been wounded , bringing that total to 106,962 . The daily average number of men , women and children killed in Gaza is at least 103 ; that of those injured is now more than 245 . <p> Ghazal , a 15-year-old girl with cerebral palsy , has lost her home , memories and essential medical equipment in the ongoing conflict in Gaza . Her story is a window into the larger tragedy of how war has devastated children , especially those with disabilities . From the day the war began , Ghazal 's life was irreversibly changed . " They destroyed what was inside us , " she said , describing how the bombing not only demolished her house but also took away her wheelchair and prosthetic devices -- items essential for her survival and dignity . The Human Rights Watch report , They Destroyed What Was Inside Us , documents the staggering toll on Gaza 's children . Recent figures paint an alarming picture : <p> Over 17,000 children have been killed in Gaza since October 2023 , according to Gaza 's Ministry of Health . <p> Humanitarian groups report that at least ten children lose a limb every day , often due to explosive weapons . <p> More than 100,000 children have been displaced , with many separated from their families or caregivers . <p> For children with disabilities , the situation is even more dire . Mobility aids like prosthetics and wheelchairs have been destroyed en masse . Hospitals , already under siege , lack the resources to replace them or provide urgent care . Under international law , including the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities , children and people with disabilities are entitled to protection during armed conflicts . Yet the realities in Gaza demonstrate how these principles are being openly ignored . <p> The Committee to Protect Journalists ( CPJ ) has denounced Israel 's killing of four Palestinian journalists in Gaza over the past week as the Israeli military intensifies its bombardment of the besieged territory . The United States-based watchdog said in a statement on Monday that the international community has failed to hold Israel accountable for its actions amid the growing death toll of journalists and civilians in Gaza . <p> With no foreign reporters allowed to work in Gaza , Palestinian journalists have been the only witnesses describing the atrocities to the outside world . And that , rights advocates argue , has put them in the crosshairs of an Israeli military operating without regard to legal and ethical norms . According to the Gaza Government Media Office , Israeli forces have killed 196 Palestinian media workers in Gaza since the start of the war last year . CPJ , which has not included some media workers in its tally , puts the death toll at 133 . <p> The President of the Norwegian Football Federation , Lise Klaveness , said on Saturday that the organisation she leads " stands with the Norwegian government 's call for an immediate halt to the disproportionate attacks on innocent civilians in Gaza , " a day after Norway and Israel were drawn in the same group in the 2026 World Cup qualifiers . " It 's complicated for us , beyond the sporting aspect , " Klaveness added . " We can not remain indifferent to Israel 's disproportionate attacks on the civilian population in Gaza . Israel is still participating in UEFA competitions , and we must contend with that , " Klaveness said , adding that they " are closely monitoring the situation with FIFA , UEFA , and the authorities in Norway . " <p> Survivors of Israeli incursion in northern Gaza describe drone attacks on schools , lack of food and medicine and dodging bullets . Jacqueline Almasri was feeding her two young children in a **25;867;TOOLONG in Beit Lahia earlier this month when Israeli quadcopter drones buzzed overhead . Over the past 14 months , Almasri has lived in several shelters after her family home in Beit Hanoun was bombed in the early weeks of October 2023 . <p> Her husband , Mohammed , and her father-in-law were trying to retrieve food and belongings from the remnants of their home when it was bombed again . Mohammed was killed , and his father was severely injured . " My son Amir was just 25 days old when his father was killed . His sister , Mira , was only one-and-a-half years old , " Almasri told Middle East Eye . " It 's unbearable to look after the two children without their father . " <p> This was only the latest attack in a weeks-old Israel military offensive on northern Gaza , which had left Palestinian civilians with three bitter choices : to be killed by bombardment ; starve to death or be forcibly displaced . Only a few days after the Israeli army entered Beit Lahia in October , Almasri had run out of food and water for her family . " I would give most of my food to my children , but they were still hungry , always crying , " she told MEE . " We were drinking salty water . My daughter , Mira , suffered from dehydration , but I could n't do anything to help her . " Despite their lack of food , water and medicine and the relentless bombardment and siege , Almasri had refused to leave Beit Lahia , saying she had no other safe place to go . <p> Israeli occupation forces yesterday blew up houses in the southern Lebanese city of Tyre , bringing the number of their violations of the ceasefire agreement to 227 . Since 27 November , a precarious ceasefire agreement has been in effect between Israel and Hezbollah , ending the increase in tensions which began on 8 October 2023 and turned into a large-scale war on 23 September when Israel intensified its bombing campaign including of Beirut . The official Lebanese News Agency said : " The Israeli enemy blew up a number of houses in the villages of West Bekaa on the outskirts of Naqoura , Chihine and Al-Jabeen in the Tyre district . " <p> The Israeli occupation army committed six violations on Saturday , including killing one person . With Sunday 's bombings , the number of Israeli violations of the ceasefire since it came into effect 19 days ago has risen to 227 , resulting in a total of 30 deaths and 31 injuries , according to the figures reported by Anadolu news agency , based on announcements from the Ministry of Health and the Lebanese News Agency as of 19:10 GMT yesterday . The Israeli aggression on Lebanon resulted in 4,061 deaths and 16,656 injuries , including many children and women . It also displaced about 1,400,000 people . <p> The prime minister since October 7 seems to be angling for a legacy as the leader who expanded Israel 's borders from Gaza in the south to Syria and the Golan Heights in the north . Israel has portrayed its takeover of the demilitarised zone without resistance as a defensive measure , the creation of a security perimeter after the Syrian army abandoned its posts on the border . <p> The IDF celebrated the operation with photos of the Israeli flag atop Mount Hermon , and tanks in the town of Quneitra , but it obscured the fact that this was on Syrian land . Israel has told the international community that the operation was limited ; the army took over just a few positions that overlook the Syrians . But Netanyahu is n't satisfied with erasing the borderlines and the security agreement for the Golan . <p> In his testimony at his corruption trial Tuesday , he went further , saying that " something tectonic has happened here , an earthquake that has n't happened in the 100 years since the Sykes-Picot Agreement . " The mention of the 1916 agreement between colonial powers Britain and France , which divided up the Ottoman Empire and created the states that exist to this day , was n't intended to teach a history lesson to the judges at the Tel Aviv District Court . Netanyahu is implying that the border agreements based on Sykes-Picot are dead and buried . Netanyahu wants to be remembered as the one who created Greater Israel , not just as a political schemer accused of corruption who abandoned 100 hostages in Gaza . That 's why he 'll try to cement Israeli control in northern Gaza . That 's why he wo n't rush to withdraw from the newly occupied territory in the Golan . Under certain circumstances , he might even expand it . <p> Israel is already " changing " the Middle East , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said yesterday , noting that he spoke with US President-elect Donald Trump about the need to " complete the victory . " This comes as the Israeli occupation government approved a plan to boost " population growth " in the illegal settlements located in the occupied Syrian Golan Heights , with a budget of more than 40 million shekels ( about $11.2 million ) . The decision coincides with the escalation in Israel 's attacks on Syria following the fall of the Bashar Al-Assad regime . Netanyahu said : " A year ago , I said something simple : We would change the face of the Middle East , and we are indeed doing so . Syria is not the same Syria . Lebanon is not the same Lebanon . Gaza is not the same Gaza . And the head of the axis , Iran , is not the same Iran ; it has also felt the might of our arm . " <p> Israeli Army population -- control and pastoral sabotage:Nablus -- 08:45 , Israeli Occupation forces took prisoner a working shepherd , Zaher Yousef Ayesh Hamza , as he was tending his flock . <p> Israeli Army agricultural sabotage , population -- control and extortion:Jericho -- Occupation forces , in the village of al-Nuweimah , bulldozed crops of tomatoes , zucchini and eggplants , as well ascompletely destroying the irrigation network . They then forced the farmers to pay them for the bulldozing and agricultural sabotage . <p> Israeli Army population -- control:Bethlehem -- evening , the Israeli Army blocked entrance to the village of al-Manshiya . <p> Israeli Army population -- control:Bethlehem -- evening , Israeli troops closed the western entrance to the city of Beit Jallah , as well as the entrance to the Ash Ghurab area , east of Beit Sahour . <p> Israeli Army armed robbery and population -- control:Bethlehem -- evening , the Israeli military seized two road-building machines being used to construct a new village road . <p> Israeli Army population -- control:Bethlehem -- Occupation forces issued stop-work orders against land reclamation in two Battir village areas as well as the removal of what had so-far been completed . <p> Israeli Army population -- control : Hebron -- evening , Israeli soldiers closed the entrance to the Ein al-Hamra area -- the only road for residents of the Salaymeh and al-Ja'bari neighbourhoods . They also fenced -- off , with barbed wire , the Ibrahimi Mosque . <p> Occupation settlement development and vandalism : Hebron -- evening , Israeli Occupation forces began bulldozing land near the entrance to the village of Deir Razeh , in order to build a new settlement road . <p> Leslie Bravery is a Londoner with vivid World War Two memories of the Nazi blitz on his home town . In 1947/1948 His father explained to him what was happening to the Palestinians thus : " Any ideology or political movement that creates refugees in the process of realising its ambitions must be inhuman and should be opposed and condemned as unacceptable . " What followed confirmed this assessment of the Zionist entity a hundredfold . Now a retired flamenco guitarist , with a lifelong interest in the tragedy of what happened to the Palestinian people , he tries to publicise their plight . Because the daily injustices they suffer barely get a mention in the mainstream news media , Leslie edits/compiles a daily newsletter , In Occupied Palestine , for the Palestine Human Rights Campaign . These days , to preserve his sanity , he enjoys taking part in a drama group whenever possible ! 
@@119010246 <p> Khaled Khiari , Assistant Secretary-General in the UN Department of Political and Peacebuilding Affairs ( DPPA ) , presented the latest quarterly report on the implementation of Council resolution 2334 ( 2016 ) . <p> It calls for Israel to immediately and completely cease all settlement activities in the OPT , including East Jerusalem , and for immediate steps to prevent all acts of violence against civilians . <h> Ongoing hostilities in Gaza <p> Mr. Khiari said that hostilities and violence have continued throughout the OPT since the report 's submission . <p> Among the incidents was the reported killing of at least 69 Palestinians from 14 to 15 December in four Israeli airstrikes on schools in Gaza sheltering displaced persons . This includes 20 people killed at a school run by UN Palestine refugee agency UNRWA in Al-Mawasi , Khan Younis . <p> More than 250 Palestinians have been killed in such strikes over the past week , according to the Gaza Ministry of Health . The authorities said that the death toll from the war has surpassed 45,000 , while Israeli sources report that over 1,700 Israelis and foreign nationals have been killed . <h> West Bank unrest <p> Meanwhile , an Israeli boy was killed in a shooting attack in the occupied West Bank on 12 December . Israeli forces reportedly killed a Palestinian man in an exchange of fire in a refugee camp that same day . <p> Advertisement - scroll to continue reading <p> " Serious clashes have also taken place between Palestinian armed groups in the occupied West Bank and Palestinian security forces since the written report , particularly in Jenin campfollowing a Palestinian arrest operation and the seizure of Palestinian Authority vehicles by militants , " he said . <p> He added that over several days , Palestinian security forces have killed an unarmed 19-year-old and detained numerous Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad militants , while the clashes have caused significant damage to the camp . <h> Hamas attacks condemned <p> Mr. Khiari highlighted some of the observations in the report . <p> He again strongly condemned the horrific 7 October 2023 attacks by Hamas and other Palestinian armed groups on Israel and the continued holding of more than 100 hostages in Gaza . <p> Nothing can justify these acts of terror , he said , reiterating that all remaining hostages must be released immediately and unconditionally , while a ceasefire in Gaza is long overdue . <h> Devastation , death and humanitarian restrictions <p> He also drew attention to the widespread devastation and deprivation resulting from Israel 's military operations in the north , and condemned its use of explosive weapons with wide area affects in densely populated areas across the Gaza Strip , which has caused massive casualties and damage , including to UN premises . <p> He mourned the UN personnel killed in Gaza and strongly condemned the killing of health workers , humanitarians and journalists , as well as the looting of aid in the context of a breakdown of law and order . <p> He further noted that continued restrictions imposed by Israel , looting and overall insecurity mean that aid entering Gaza is insufficient to meet the overwhelming needs . <h> Against settlement expansion <p> " I remain deeply alarmed by the relentless Israeli settlement expansion in the occupied West Bank , including East Jerusalem , that is fueling tensions , impeding access by Palestinians to their land and threatening the viability of a future independent , democratic , contiguous and sovereign Palestinian State , " he said . <p> He expressed deep concern that Israel has continued to systematically promote policies that have strengthened involvement of civilian officials in control over the occupied West Bank , which includes transferring of some security functions . Some Israeli Government officials also have called for annexing areas of the territory . <p> In this regard , he noted the recent findings by the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) in its Advisory Opinion on 19 July , which declared that Israel 's continued presence in the Occupied Palestinian Territory is unlawful and must end as rapidly as possible . <h> Support Palestinian government <p> Mr. Khiari said it is vital that the international community provide immediate support to the Palestinian Government so that it can address fiscal challenges , strengthen governance capacity , and prepare to reassume responsibilities in Gaza . <p> " We must establish political and security frameworks that can address the humanitarian catastrophe , start early recovery , rebuild Gaza , and lay the groundwork for a political process to end the occupation and establish a viable two-State solution as soon as possible , " he said . <p> He stressed that these frameworks must facilitate a legitimate Palestinian Government that can re-unify Gaza and the occupied West Bank , including East Jerusalem - politically , economically and administratively , while also reversing the steadily deteriorating dynamics throughout the OPT . <p> " Any attempt to establish settlements in Gaza must be firmly rejected . There must be no attempt to reduce or annex the territory of Gaza in whole or in part , " he said . <h> Lay the foundation <p> Amid the conflict in Gaza and tensions in the West Bank , the UN continues to call for a two-State solution between Palestinians and Israelis . <p> " The devastation and misery of the past year have reinforced once again a simple truth : Palestinians and Israelis can no longer wait to establish a viable political horizon , " he said . <p> " Now is the time to lay the foundations for a better future for Palestinians , Israelis and the broader region , " . <p> Mr. Khiari upheld the UN 's commitment to support Palestinians and Israelis in ending the occupation and resolving the conflict in line with international law , relevant UN resolutions and bilateral agreements in pursuit of achieving the two-State solution . <h> Using Scoop for work ? <p> Scoop is free for personal use , but you 'll need a licence for work use . This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop . Join today with plans starting from less than $3 per week , plus gain access to exclusive Pro features . 
@@119010348 <h> A weary Biden heads for the exit <h> Share this article <p> Reminder , this is a Premium article and requires a subscription to read . <p> Still stinging from the election , President Biden is pushing for his final priorities but has absented himself from the national conversation about Donald Trump after warning repeatedly that he was a threat to American democracy . <p> It was a long day in Angola . President Joe Biden had already visited a port facility bracketed with cranes and toured a factory filled with conveyor belts . So by the time he sat down at a large wooden circular table in a warm , stuffyroom with African leaders , he put his head in his hand and briefly closed his eyes as the speeches droned on . <p> Flying across the world would have tired even a President younger than 82 . But the point , as he saw it , was that he came . He travelled thousands of miles to highlight a new US-backed railway that could transform the economies of Africa and supply resources for America . He came . He did not have to . He insisted on it and was proud to be the first President to come . <p> This is the twilight of Biden 's presidency , the final days of the final chapter of an epic half-century political journey that has had more than its share of twists and turns . Time is catching up with Biden . He looks a little older and a little slower with each passing day . Aides say he remains plenty sharp in the Situation Room , calling world leaders to broker a ceasefire in Lebanon or deal with the chaos of Syria 's rebellion . But it is hard to imagine that he seriously thought he could do the world 's most stressful job for another four years . <p> That does not make it any easier as Biden heads towards the exit . Nothing that has happened since he was forced to drop out of the race in July has made that decision look wrong , yet Donald Trump 's victory over Vice-President Kamala Harris has been interpreted as a repudiation of Biden . It stung . It still stings . But unlike Trump four years ago , this President accepts the outcome . <p> Biden is determined to finish on a high note and shape his legacy as a consequential president . Photo / Anna Rose Layden , The New York Times <p> " Yes , this is hard , " said Ted Kaufman , his longtime friend , aide and successor in the Senate . " But he has been through tougher things than this . He has a long list of things he wants to do , and he is focused on getting them accomplished . " <p> Determined to finish on a high note and shape his legacy as a consequential President , Biden wants to " sprint to the finish line " in these final weeks , as his chief of staff , Jeffrey D. Zients , put it . He is checking a few last boxes on his presidential bucket list . Angola ? Check . A visit to the Amazon rainforest , another presidential first ? Check . <p> The biggest box left is a ceasefire in the Gaza Strip and if he manages that , it would be a validating triumph for a departing President . Otherwise , he is wrapping up his time in office by claiming credit for the healthy economy that he is turning over to his ungrateful successor and by getting money previously approved by Congress out the door for roads and bridges at home and arms for Ukraine abroad . <p> Tying a bow of forgiveness around his pending departure , Biden has extended a record number of commutations to prisoners who were already on home confinement -- and more defiantly pardoned his son Hunter after convictions on firearms and tax charges , only to be surprised at the blowback from his fellow Democrats . <p> Like other lame-duck presidents , he is fading from the political scene , all but leaving the stage before the final curtain . While Trump already dominates the conversation more than incoming presidents typically do , making policy pronouncements and huddling with world leaders without waiting to take office , the President actually occupying the White House has become a national afterthought . " President -- Still ? " a host on Saturday Night Live referred to him . <p> Biden has absented himself from the debate convulsing the country . After warning again and again that Trump posed an existential threat to American democracy , he has now gone silent on the matter and even aides decline to answer questions on whether the incoming President is still a danger . A traditionalist to his bones , Biden has opted for the grace and reticence he believes are befitting the departing President of a defeated party , even as the incoming President threatens to imprison opponents and tries to install conspiracy-minded acolytes in positions of power . <p> During Biden 's visit to the Amazon rainforest last month , the president 's fragility appeared clear to those travelling with him . Photo / Eric Lee , The New York Times <p> Some of Biden 's allies and fellow Democrats wish he would use his position more assertively in the time he has left . <p> " He ought to be dramatically pushing until the last day on the things that he represented to seal his legacy and the memory of it in the American public because it is so diametrically opposite to what Trump is bringing into the White House , " said the Reverend Al Sharpton , a civil rights leader and Biden ally . <p> Even when pushing for his priorities , Biden has found it hard to break through . During his visit to the Amazon rainforest last month , his fragility appeared painfully clear to those travelling with him . <p> After speaking for seven minutes on a day of draining humidity , a blue shirt hanging loosely over his frame , he turned to slowly shuffle away down a dirt path as several people in the audience not used to seeing him up close said they held their breath , worried that he would trip . ( Aides said his gait was no more unsteady than usual . ) <p> During an arrival ceremony on his trip to Angola this month , on the day after a long , tiring transoceanic flight that would have taxed any octogenarian , President Jo ? o Louren ? o suddenly clutched Biden 's arm to help guide him up a step . <p> When Biden visited the National Museum of Slavery that afternoon , he did not actually enter the main building to view the exhibitions ; instead , artefacts were brought outside to show him , which two people familiar with the planning attributed to fear that the steep stairs would be too much of a challenge . ( The White House denied that the stairs were a concern and said he was not brought inside for scheduling and logistical reasons . ) <p> Biden , with President Jo ? o Louren ? o of Angola , has continued to visit far-off destinations . Photo / Eric Lee , The New York Times <p> Yet Biden is still making those arduous journeys to far-off destinations like the Amazon and Angola when others might not have bothered . His meetings in Brazil forged international climate change commitments and his trip to Angola was meant to highlight a US-backed railway being built across the African continent , competing for influence with China , both major challenges of this era . <p> " It was a very important moment for me , for our institution , " said Vladimiro Fortuna , the director of the Angolan slavery museum . " That was a very important moment in the museum 's history . " He added that he was impressed by Biden and did not understand why there was so much concern about the stairs . " I did n't see someone that was not ready to go up and to go in the museum . " <p> Several of those who travelled with Biden on those two trips took note that he maintained a light schedule at times and sometimes mumbled , making him hard to understand . With the end of his career in sight , he seemed ruminative . At one point , during a private meeting , he drifted into a reminiscence about the famous 1960 debate between John F. Kennedy and Richard Nixon . <p> At the same time , those accompanying him said , he was focused on the issues at hand and demonstrated command of the details . Before meeting with President Xi Jinping of China on the sidelines of a summit in Rio de Janeiro , he insisted on a prolonged briefing that stretched on for about 90 minutes . <p> In meetings at the White House , aides said , he is likewise still astute , still dictating specific actions and still editing speeches to suit his preferences . He made calls to other world leaders as part of a successful effort to broker a ceasefire to stop the war in Lebanon and again to consult on the aftermath of the fall of President Bashar Assad in Syria . <p> At a ceremony honouring the Special Olympics last week , he struck some guests as fully engaged . " He seemed fine , " said Elaine Kamarck , a longtime Democratic National Committee member who attended . " To my amazement , he stayed through the whole dinner . We all thought maybe he would disappear , but no , he sat down , he ate with everybody , he stayed through all of dinner . And he seemed just fine . " <p> Still , he grew emotional at one point during the ceremony . At this time of year , friends say , Biden can become a little seasonally depressed , remembering the 1972 car accident that killed his first wife and daughter shortly before Christmas . During his brief speech at the Special Olympics event , he brought up the tragedy and choked up for a few moments . On Wednesday , he will be in Wilmington , Delaware , for the anniversary , when he typically visits the family graves . <p> In his final days in office , Biden and his staff are busy making sure money approved as part of his major legislation is spent as intended . Photo / Eric Lee , The New York Times <p> While some close to Biden said he had made peace with the coming end of his presidency , others said he had been moody . He is currently angry at Democratic members of Congress who have publicly denounced his decision to pardon Hunter Biden despite promises not to , according to one person who has spent time with him recently . <p> White House officials said that while Trump attracts the headlines , Biden and his staff are busy making sure money approved as part of his major legislation is spent as intended for clean energy , manufacturing and infrastructure projects before the next team can try to block it . <p> In a memo to the White House staff last week , Zients reported that the administration has announced awards for about 98% of the money made available through the end of the fiscal year from four major laws passed by Biden : the American Rescue Plan , the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law , the CHIPS and Science Act , and the Inflation Reduction Act . <p> " The President has been very focused on how we implement these bills , " Natalie Quillian , the White House deputy chief of staff overseeing the process , said in an interview . " He 's impressed upon all of us that we need to run through the tape , we need to get the money out the door , we need to sign the contracts , and we need to get these impacts delivered to communities , red and blue , across the country as quickly as possible . " <p> Biden gave a " legacy speech " last week at the Brookings Institution outlining what he sees as the successes of his economic programme -- and warning about the dangers of Trump 's . The roughly 40-minute speech , in the works for weeks , was meant to outline what Biden thinks worked in terms of the economy during his tenure and what will not work in the future , although he coughed throughout and was hoarse by the end . <p> " He 's not looking for a statue , " Jared Bernstein , the chair of the President 's Council of Economic Advisers , said over the weekend . " He 's looking for a better policy that uplifts the middle class and steers us away from trickle down . " <p> Biden is fading from the political scene , opting for the grace and reticence he believes are befitting the departing president of a defeated party . Photo / Eric Lee , The New York Times <p> At this stage of Biden 's presidency , though , his public messaging is targeted and restrained . Once Washington 's most loquacious chatterbox , Biden these days barely engages with the reporters who follow him everywhere . He has held no news conferences and conducted no interviews with the traditional news media since the election , though he has done some podcasts . His only reply to shouted questions from journalists during his entire Africa trip added up to 14 words . In South America , it was just a single word . <p> As a result , Biden has not once publicly addressed his much-criticised decision to pardon his son since the written statement he released , nor has he discussed his consideration of blanket pardons for adversaries of Trump to protect them from the President-elect 's promised campaign of " retribution " once he takes office . <p> At times , Biden bristles at the constraints . Before the election , when he had been relegated to the sidelines of the campaign , the President told an ally that he was bored and asked if there were any events for him to attend , a comment that seemed only partly facetious , according to a person informed about the conversation . <p> But his aides said there is plenty still left to do . In his memo , Zients pointed to the Gaza ceasefire talks , efforts to confirm more judges and plans to cancel more student debt for public service workers and other borrowers . <p> " During a time when most would expect us to slow down , you are accelerating , " Zients wrote , adding , " I know you and your teams are pushing forward on every issue , yard by yard . " 
@@119019137 <p> Serving an " eviction notice " on the Israeli Embassy in Aotearoa New Zealand in November 2023 . . . one of several " shut it down " protests against the mission . Image : Justice for Palestine <p> Asia Pacific Report <p> A broad coalition of civil society organisations in Aotearoa New Zealand have signed an open letter to Foreign Affairs Minister Winston Peters urging the coalition government to refuse to accept the credentials of a new Israeli ambassador while the state continues to disregard international law and to commit war crimes . <p> The ICJ has made it clear that all states parties -- including New Zealand -- have obligations not to recognise , and not to render aid or assistance in maintaining the situation created by measures that are illegal under international law . <p> The international community has failed to hold Israel to account for its actions . <p> Kate Stone from Justice for Palestine , one of the signatory organisations , said in a statement : " As we say in the letter , while ambassadors usually provide an important avenue for dialogue , it is clear that the Israeli regime is not prepared to respond to the concerns of the New Zealand government , or the international community more broadly , and intends to continue to disregard international law . <p> " This is about demonstrating that there are consequences for Israel 's actions in breach of international law , and at the expense of Palestinian human rights . " <p> Clearly , Israel is not prepared to maintain diplomatic relations with states that seek to uphold international law . <p> Those who have signed the letter are urging the New Zealand government to not maintain diplomatic relations with Israel until it is prepared to comply with international law . <p> " New Zealand should stand with those seeking to uphold international law and human rights , not with those seeking to avoid accountability for their actions which have resulted in the deaths of over 40,000 Palestinians . " said Kate Stone . <p> We are aware that the term of the current Israeli ambassador is coming to an end . We , the undersigned organisations , urge you , on behalf of the New Zealand government , to refuse to accept the credentials of a replacement ambassador while Israel continues to disregard international law . <p> The Israeli regime is currently committing a genocide in Gaza and the International Criminal Court has issued warrants for the arrest of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defence Minister Yoav Gallant for crimes against humanity and war crimes . The International Court of Justice 's advisory opinion from July 2024 declared Israel 's occupation of Palestine illegal and identi ? ed numerous international law obligations that Israel is violating , manifesting in systematic breaches of Palestinians ' fundamental human rights . <p> The current Israeli regime , and any representative of that regime , is ? agrantly ? outing international law and has ignored all calls for it to cease its illegal activities in Gaza and the wider Occupied Palestinian Territories . It is quite clear that Israel intends to continue expanding its illegal settlements in the West Bank and East Jerusalem , and to re-settle Gaza -- changing the facts on the ground to such an extent that a two-state solution , or any just solution , becomes an impossibility . <p> The ICJ makes it clear that all states parties -- including New Zealand -- have obligations not to recognize , and not to render aid or assistance in maintaining the situation created by measures that are illegal under international law . The failure of the international community to hold Israel to account for its actions is undermining the integrity of the rules-based international order that New Zealand relies upon . <p> While ordinarily a diplomatic mission provides an avenue for dialogue , it is clear that the Israeli regime is not prepared to respond to the concerns of the New Zealand government . <p> Therefore , we urge you to announce that New Zealand will not maintain diplomatic relations with Israel until it demonstrates that it is prepared to comply with its international obligations . Please do not accept diplomatic credentials from a regime carrying out war crimes . <p> Na matou noa , na <p> Justice for Palestine <p> ActionStation <p> Alternative Jewish Voices ( NZ ) <p> Aotearoa Christians for Peace in Palestine <p> Aotearoa Healthcare Workers for Palestine <p> Asians Supporting Tino Rangatiratanga <p> Auckland Action Against Poverty <p> Auckland Peace Action <p> The Basket Hauraki -- Social and Environmental Justice <p> Cease ? re Now Hawkes Bay <p> Dayenu : New Zealand Jews Against Occupation <p> DECOL Collective Whanganui <p> Falastin Tea Collective <p> First Union -- Dennis Maga , General Secretary , on behalf of First Union Kaiawhina Tamaki <p> Matika mo Paretinia <p> Mauri o te Moana <p> NZCTU -- Te Kauae Kaimahi <p> Otago Sta ? for Palestine <p> Otago Students for Justice in Palestine <p> Palestine Solidarity Network Aotearoa <p> Palestine Solidarity Network Aotearoa Whanganui <p> Palestine Solidarity Network Whangarei <p> Palestine Solidarity Taranaki <p> Palestine Human Rights Campaign Waikato <p> Peace Action Wellington <p> Peace Movement Aotearoa <p> People Against Prisons Aotearoa <p> Professor Richard Jackson , Co-Director Te Ao O Rongomaraeroa -- The National Centre for Peace and Con ? ict Studies , University of Otago 
@@119053631 <p> Of late , a spate of incidents has taken place in Australia giving sheer delight to the simian-resembling Opposition Leader , Peter Dutton . On a visit to South Australia , he showed himself to be merrily divisive in attacking protestors who had shown solidarity for Palestinians in Gaza in the wake of their catastrophic suffering since October last year : " If you allow these lunatics to continue their protests at university campuses and you allow them to spew their hatred and affiliate with a listed terrorist organisation , and there is no consequence , of course we 'll see the sort of outcomes we have seen -- which most recently has culminated in the firebombing of a synagogue in Melbourne " . <p> The December 6 attack on the Adass Israel Synagogue in Melbourne , while horrid , was immediately elevated to a level of concern warranting an emergency -- that , at least , was the view of Dutton and his charges . The attacks on mosques and their worshippers , a feature of Australian public life for some years now , hardly warranted a mention . ( A 2021 joint study by three Australian universities surveying 75 mosques found that 58.2% had experienced violence between 2014 and 2019 . ) <p> Advertisement - scroll to continue reading <p> Dutton also had inspiration from another source . " The burning of the Adass Israel synagogue in Melbourne is an abhorrent act of antisemitism , " stated Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on platform X. " I expect the state authorities to use their full weight to prevent such antisemitic acts in future . " <p> Ever the opportunist , Netanyahu saw a chance to see unsubstantiated links between the bombing in Melbourne , Australian foreign policy and antisemitism . " Unfortunately , it is impossible to separate this reprehensible act from the extreme anti-Israeli position of the Labor government in Australia , including the scandalous decision to support the UN resolution calling on Israel ' to bring an end to its unlawful presence in the Occupied Palestinian Territory , as rapidly as possible ' , and preventing a former Israeli minister from entering the country . " The conclusion was childishly simple : " Anti-Israel sentiment is antisemitism . " <p> This unbridled nonsense had its effect . In the aftermath of the synagogue attack , Australia 's antisemitism envoy , Jillian Segal , got busy . On the Australian public broadcaster SBS , she took the rather authoritarian view that Australian cities were no place for protests against Israeli policies towards the Palestinians . " There should be places designated away from where the Jewish community might venture , where people can demonstrate . " Presumably , pro-Palestinian protestors needed to be given , like smokers , caged areas to engage in their activities , leaving the pure and docile safe to go about their everyday business . <p> In Segal 's view , the weekly protests held in solidarity for Palestinians in Gaza and the West Bank had become " something more sinister " . Not only were they " intimidatory " , they had " morphed into attacking the Jewish community . " Not exactly furnished with much by way of evidence , she pointed to the display of " flags from a terrorist organisation " and " anti-Jewish sentiments " seen and heard at rallies . Demagogy always resists context . <p> Amnesty International Australia , in a December 13 statement , expressed its strong opposition to Segal 's call " to ban pro-Palestinian protests from city centres . Protests advocating for a ceasefire , the protection of human rights , and an end to Israel 's genocide of Palestinians in Gaza are an essential and protected outlet for Australians to freely express their views . " It was vital to distinguish instances of " hateful acts and calls for justice , freedom , and human dignity . " <p> These views are correct -- to a point . As Australia lacks a human rights charter protecting the right to lawful assembly and free speech , parliaments at both the federal and state level can show sneering contempt for protests when they wish to do so . Wishing to jump to the aid of Segal and the unspecified fearful in the Jewish community , Victoria 's Premier Jacinta Allan has done just that , proposing legislation that targets pro-Palestinian protests . " Antisemitism , " she solemnly stated , " thrives in extreme and radical environments , and we are giving police more powers to control protest and making it harder for agents of violence and hate to hide . " <p> Allan gives the impression that the proposed laws are universal in nature . " Does n't matter if you 're Christian , Jewish Muslim , Sikh , Hindu -- you all deserve the right to simply be who we are " . However , things become very clear with the explicit mention " that Jewish people increasingly feel the promise of a modern and multicultural Victoria is being denied them . " <p> The ludicrously named Anti-Vilification and Social Cohesion Bill 2024 will not only , as the premier noted in a public announcement , ban the flags and symbols of designated terrorist organisations ( Hamas and Hezbollah included ) , undefined " white nationalists " ( presumably those of other colours slip under the radar ) , " and more " : the statute will also focus on the decorative and dramatic nature of protest . Masks , " used by agitators to shield identities and hide from personal accountability " , are to be banned , along with glue , rope , chains , locks and other devices " used to cause maximum disruption and endanger Victorians . " This shows that protestors of all stripes , including those concerned with climate change and environment , will also be targeted . <p> Showing a conventional loathing for Victoria 's own Charter of Human Rights , which has a paper tiger protection for freedom of assembly , Allan condescendingly shreds it : " the right to protest is balanced against the right of people to live safely -- free of danger , discrimination and harassment . " <p> The beneficiaries in all of this are the noisy , bellicose members of the pro-Israel lobby , a divisive federal opposition keen to capitalise on hatreds it claims not to have , and the State of Israel itself . However murderous , annihilating and cruel its policies might be to the Palestinians , the belief shared by many of its defenders is that the Jewish state is faultless , beyond the moral and soiling reach of any protest . To think otherwise would instance , as Netanyahu barkingly insists , antisemitism . <p> Dr. Binoy Kampmark was a Commonwealth Scholar at Selwyn College , Cambridge . He currently lectures at RMIT University . Email : bkampmark@gmail.com <h> Using Scoop for work ? <p> Scoop is free for personal use , but you 'll need a licence for work use . This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop . Join today with plans starting from less than $3 per week , plus gain access to exclusive Pro features . 
@@119053635 <h> The Democratic Party Faces Its Day Of Reckoning <p> Following its crushing defeat in the 2024 election , the Democratic Party might finally face its day of reckoning . The party markets itself as the champion of the working class and a bulwark against the party of the plutocrats . But this has been a lie for at least three decades . <p> The Democratic Party has partnered with Wall Street donors since at least the 1990s . Under President Bill Clinton , the party overturned Glass Steagall and other New Deal programs that had effectively restrained Wall Street greed for 60 years . It also sold out American workers with so-called trade deals that freed their bosses to ship American jobs overseas . It ended welfare " as we know it " and passed draconian crime bills that destroyed mostly black and brown communities , sending mothers and fathers to prison for decades in the name of a cruel and senseless war on drugs . <p> Into the 21st century , the Democrats continued pushing the lie that they were fighting for working people . After September 11 , 2001 , the party put up a token resistance to the Bush/Cheney regime of illegal regime-change wars , black sites , indefinite detention and torture . All the while , it continued soliciting campaign contributions from the arms dealers profiting from Bush 's wars . <p> In 2008 , the party found a Black face to carry on its Wall Street-friendly agenda . Gullible Americans , myself included , were taken in by Barack Obama 's promises to end " dumb wars " and to institute a single payer healthcare system . We ignored the red flags , like the fact that Obama 's campaign broke records in pocketing Wall Street donations . It was later revealed by Wikileaks that nearly every member of Obama 's cabinet had been selected by the giant Wall Street bank Citigroup . <p> Advertisement - scroll to continue reading <p> It did n't take long for President Obama to crush our hopes that he was a different kind of Democrat . One of his first acts as president was to funnel trillions of dollars to the big banks that , newly freed by Clinton from FDR-era regulations , had embarked on an orgy of unbridled greed , swindling millions of Americans out of their homes and retirement savings with a scheme to sell worthless mortgage-backed securities . <p> Adding insult to injury , Obama saw to it that the bailed-out bank executives faced no criminal prosecutions and received their year-end bonuses . In their place , the Obama Justice Department brought federal mortgage fraud charges against thousands of poor people -- I represented a half dozen of these folks -- who had signed their names to the phony mortgage loans that the Wall Street bankers encouraged , packaged and sold to pension funds and other unwitting investors . <p> The pipe dream that Obama would be an anti-war president was also quickly dispatched . During his two terms , Obama ushered in a new era of continuous war , envisioned by George Orwell and favored by Wall Street . Obama expanded Bush 's bombing campaigns into Libya , Pakistan , Yemen , Syria and Somalia . Today 's Democratic Party is indistinguishable from the Republicans in its ties to war profiteers and trillion-dollar Pentagon budgets . <p> Obama also effectively ended the Democrats ' promise to fight for a true national health care system in which all Americans would be able to go to the doctor when sick without fear of bankrupting their families . In its place , Obama pushed through a health care plan developed in right-wing think tanks , that guaranteed profits ( and taxpayer subsidies ) for the private insurance industry and did little to contain costs . <p> By 2012 , Glen Ford of the Black Agenda Report was describing the Democratic Party as the " more effective evil " for using its reputation as protector of the working class to neutralize effective opposition and push through right-wing policies that the Republicans could not get passed . <p> In 2016 , the Democrats received a wake-up call when their chosen successor to Obama lost the White House to a crude-talking New York City real estate developer and game show host with no prior political experience . But with the help of its partners in corporate media , the party managed to limp along for another eight years , first by telling the American people that President Trump was an agent of Russia , and then by claiming that Trump was Hitler who was planning concentration camps and firing squads for his political enemies . <p> Now after the November 2024 elections in which Trump won every swing state and the popular vote , the Democratic party is finally being forced to face some uncomfortable truths . The party 's partners in the corporate media initially tried blaming the election result on the voters for being too misogynist , too racist , or too dumb to vote correctly . But there is little trust that remains in corporate media . <p> The party 's corporate consultants have put the blame on the party 's excessive focus on identity politics . But the issues for the Democrats run much deeper than bad messaging . The real problem is that the party takes direction from plutocrats whose interests are antagonistic to the needs of the working people it pretends to represent . Both Democrats and Republicans are financed by the same corporate interests . Thus , there is general agreement and support for policies that guarantee high rates of return on investment capital , policies like continuous war , for-profit health care , and outsourcing jobs . This leaves few issues for the parties to fight about other than abortion and identity politics . <p> Fifty years ago , American capitalists still relied on American workers to build everything from cars and televisions to sneakers and light bulbs . These titans of industry had to care about things such as functioning schools , decent wages , cities and public transportation . But the times have changed . Today 's plutocrats support outsourcing jobs to low-wage countries and have little concern for the condition of American workers . And while ordinary Americans want the country 's resources to be spent at home , plutocrats are heavily invested in foreign wars , and they shun diplomacy . <p> These contradictions could only be covered up for so long . Even with reliable partners in the corporate press , the internet has given Americans alternative sources for their news . During the last few years , in a desperate effort to keep its scheme afloat , the Democrats embraced censorship and a regime of corporate " fact checkers " to police social media and remove or punish unsanctioned speech . In so doing , the party abandoned the last of its core principles : standing up for free speech and the right to dissent . <p> Many Democrats argue that they had to go after Wall Street money to compete with the Republicans . In 2016 , Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer explained the strategy : " For every blue-collar Democrat we lose in western Pennsylvania we will pick up two moderate Republicans in the suburbs in Philadelphia , and you can repeat that in Ohio and Illinois and Wisconsin . " But for this plan to work , the party still needed an actual message to take to the voters . <p> Forbes Magazine reports that during the 2024 presidential race , Kamala Harris 's campaign raised a billion dollars while Trump 's campaign raised $388 million . Harris 's substantial edge in fundraising allowed her to flood the airwaves with commercials . But she had nothing of substance to say to voters . <p> The Atlantic Magazine reports that early in her campaign , Harris gained ground by attacking Trump as a stooge of corporate interests -- and touted herself as a relentless scourge of Big Business . But then , suddenly , Harris abandoned her attacks on big business at the urging of her brother-in-law , Tony West , Uber 's chief legal officer . <p> Many Democrats , especially in swing states , opposed the Biden Administration 's unfailing support for Israel 's genocidal campaign in Gaza , which has killed more than 43,000 Palestinians and displaced nearly all of its 2.3 million residents . Harris could have gained the support of many of these voters by promising to stop arming Israel during the genocide . But her Party 's donors would n't allow her to even hint at such a change in policy . Two days before the election , while campaigning in the swing state of Michigan , Harris stated , " I will do everything in my power to end the war in Gaza . " But as Ali Abunimah of the Electronic Intifada pointed out on election night , this promise carried no weight because Harris had also promised that she would never do the one thing within her power to stop the slaughter : cut off the flow of bombs to Israel . <p> After decades of malfeasance and deception , it has become evident that the corporate Democratic Party can not serve as the lone opposition party to the corporate Republicans . The American people need a viable political party that represents the interests of ordinary working people . <p> A true workers party will not raise as much money as the corporate Democrats . But it will have an honest message with the potential to appeal to large numbers of Americans . Further , a political party that actually represents workers will press for reforms that begin to even the playing field between the haves and the have nots . <p> For example , one the most effective ways plutocrats game the political system is by flooding campaign contributions to the lawmakers who sit on the key committees that oversee their businesses . Members of Congress covet these committee chairs because they guarantee high fundraising numbers . Lawmakers who sit on the House Financial Services Committee have jurisdiction over banks and insurance companies and are targeted by those firms with campaign contributions . Lawmakers who sit on the Armed Services and Appropriations Committees provide funding for lucrative government contracts and are flooded with war industry cash . <p> These practices are corrupt and deprive American citizens of their right to be governed by representatives free from conflicts of interest . A judge who has received political contributions from a litigant must be removed from the case . Similarly , the most important functions of government , such as determining tax and how our tax revenue will be spent , should be performed by lawmakers who have not been bribed . <p> In 2017 , the Center for American Progress , a think tank aligned with the Democratic Party , proposed a " Committee Contribution Ban " for Congress . It asserted : " Congress should enact a law to make it unlawful for members of Congress to accept campaign contributions from entities that fall within the jurisdiction of their committees . " Unsurprisingly , this proposal never reached the floor of Congress , that I could find . <p> Some states have enacted similar conflict of interest rules . And Congress could certainly pass such a law , if it chose . Of course , this will never happen as long as we are ruled by two corporate parties that benefit from the corruption . But if we had a political party that represented ordinary people , countless opportunities for positive change would soon emerge . <p> Author Bio:Leonard C. Goodman is a Chicago criminal defense lawyer and an adjunct professor of law at DePaul University . <p> This article originally appeared on ScheerPost and is distributed in partnership with Economy for All , a project of the Independent Media Institute . <h> Using Scoop for work ? <p> Scoop is free for personal use , but you 'll need a licence for work use . This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop . Join today with plans starting from less than $3 per week , plus gain access to exclusive Pro features . 
@@119053641 <p> **34;961;TOOLONG , December 18 , 2024 -- Repeated Israeli military attacks on Palestinian civilians over the last 14 months , the dismantling of the health care system and other essential infrastructure , the suffocating siege , and the systematic denial of humanitarian assistance are destroying the conditions of life in Gaza , according to a new M ? decins Sans Fronti ? res/Doctors Without Borders/ ( MSF ) report , " Gaza : Life in a death trap . " The international medical humanitarian organization is urgently calling on all parties , once again , for an immediate ceasefire to save lives and enable the flow of humanitarian aid . Israel must stop its targeted and indiscriminate attacks against civilians , and its allies must act without delay to protect the lives of Palestinians and uphold the rules of war . <p> " People in Gaza are struggling to survive apocalyptic conditions , but nowhere is safe , no one is spared , and there is no exit from this shattered enclave , " said Christopher Lockyear , MSF secretary general , who visited Gaza earlier this year . <p> " The recent military offensive in the north is a stark illustration of the brutal war the Israeli forces are waging on Gaza , and we are seeing clear signs of ethnic cleansing as Palestinians are forcibly displaced , trapped , and bombed , " Lockyear said . " What our medical teams have witnessed on the ground throughout this conflict is consistent with the descriptions provided by an increasing number of legal experts and organizations concluding that genocide is taking place in Gaza . While we do n't have legal authority to establish intentionality , the signs of ethnic cleansing and the ongoing devastation -- including mass killings , severe physical and mental health injuries , forced displacement , and impossible conditions of life for Palestinians under siege and bombardment -- are undeniable . " <p> Advertisement - scroll to continue reading <p> In response to the horrific attacks carried out by Hamas and other armed groups in Israel on October 7 , 2023 -- in which 1,200 people were killed and 251 people were taken hostage -- Israeli forces are crushing the entire population of Gaza . Israel 's all-out war on Gaza has reportedly killed more than 45,000 people , according to the Ministry of Health , including eight MSF colleagues . The number of excess deaths related to the war is likely much higher due to the impacts of a collapsed health care system , disease outbreaks , and severely limited access to food , water , and shelter . The United Nations estimated earlier this year that more than 10,000 bodies remained buried under the rubble . Israeli forces have prevented essential items such as food , water , and medical supplies from entering the Strip , as well as blocked , denied , and delayed humanitarian assistance , as documented in the report . Some 1.9 million people -- 90 percent of the entire population of the Strip -- have been forcibly displaced , many forced to move multiple times . <p> Fewer than half of Gaza 's 36 hospitals are even partially functional and the health care system lies in ruins . During the one-year period covered by the report -- from October 2023 to October 2024 -- MSF staff alone have endured 41 attacks and violent incidents , including airstrikes , shelling , and violent incursions in health facilities ; direct fire on the organization 's shelters and convoys ; and arbitrary detention of colleagues by Israeli forces . MSF medical personnel and patients have been forced to evacuate hospitals and health facilities on 17 separate occasions , often literally running for their lives . Warring parties have conducted hostilities near medical facilities , endangering patients , caretakers , and medical staff . <p> Meanwhile , Palestinians ' physical and mental health injuries are overwhelming , and the needs continue to grow . MSF-supported facilities have carried out at least 27,500 consultations for violence and 7,500 surgical interventions . People are suffering from war wounds as well as chronic diseases , made worse when they can not get access to essential health care services and medicines . Israel 's forced displacement has pushed people into unbearable and unhygienic living conditions where diseases can spread rapidly . As a result , MSF teams are treating high numbers of people for illnesses like skin diseases , respiratory infections , and diarrhea -- all of which are expected to increase as winter temperatures drop . Children are missing out on crucial immunizations , leaving them vulnerable to diseases like measles and polio . MSF has observed an increase in the number of malnutrition cases , however it is impossible to carry out a full malnutrition screening in Gaza due to widespread insecurity and the lack of proper deconfliction measures . <p> As medical care options dwindle in Gaza , Israel has made it even more difficult for people to be medically evacuated . Between the closure of the Rafah crossing in early May 2024 and September 2024 , Israeli authorities have only authorized the evacuations of 229 patients -- which amounts to 1.6 percent of those who needed it at that time . This is a drop in the ocean of needs . <p> The situation in northern Gaza is especially dire following Israel 's recent scorched earth military offensive that has depopulated large areas and reportedly killed almost 2,000 people . The northern part of the Strip , particularly Jabalia camp , has been besieged again by Israeli forces since October 6 , 2024 . Israeli authorities have dramatically reduced the quantity of essential aid authorized to enter the north . In October 2024 , the amount of supplies reaching the whole Gaza Strip hit its lowest point since the war escalated in October 2023 : a daily average of 37 humanitarian trucks entered in October 2024 , well below the 500 humanitarian trucks entering before October 7 , 2023 . <p> " For more than a year , our medical staff in Gaza have witnessed a relentless campaign by the Israeli forces marked by massive destruction , devastation , and dehumanization , " said Lockyear . " Palestinians have been killed in their homes and in hospital beds . They have been forcibly displaced time and time again to areas that are not safe or healthy . People can not find even the most basic necessities like food , clean water , medicines , and soap amid a punishing siege and blockade . " <p> MSF calls on states , particularly Israel 's closest allies , to end their unconditional support for Israel and fulfill their obligation to prevent genocide in Gaza . Nearly a year ago , on January 26 , the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) ordered Israel to take " immediate and effective measures to enable the provision of urgently needed basic services and humanitarian assistance to address the adverse conditions of life faced by Palestinians in the Gaza Strip . " Israel has taken no meaningful action to comply with the court order . Instead , Israeli authorities continue to actively block MSF and other humanitarian organizations from providing lifesaving assistance to people trapped under siege and bombardment . <p> States must leverage their influence to alleviate the suffering of the population and enable a massive scale-up of humanitarian assistance across the Gaza Strip . As the occupying power , Israeli authorities are responsible for ensuring the rapid , unimpeded , and safe delivery of humanitarian aid at the level sufficient to address people 's needs . Instead , Israel 's blockade and continued obstruction of aid have made it close to impossible for people in Gaza to access essential goods , including fuel , food , water , and medicines . At the same time , Israel has decided to effectively ban the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East ( UNRWA ) , which is the largest provider of aid , health care , and other vital services for Palestinians . <p> MSF repeats its call for an immediate and sustained ceasefire . The total destruction of Palestinian life in Gaza must stop . MSF is also calling for immediate and safe access to northern Gaza to allow the delivery of humanitarian aid and medical supplies to hospitals . While MSF continues to provide lifesaving care in central and southern Gaza , we call on Israel to end its siege on the territory and open vital land borders , including the Rafah crossing , to enable a massive scale-up of humanitarian and medical aid . <p> The MSF report notes that even if the Israeli military offensive on Gaza ended today , its long-term impacts would be unprecedented , given the scale of the destruction and the extraordinary challenges of providing health care across the Strip . A staggering number of war-wounded people are at risk of infection , amputation , and permanent disability , and many will require years of rehabilitative care . The cumulative physical toll and mental trauma caused by the extreme violence , loss of family members and homes , repeated forced displacement , and inhumane living conditions will scar generations . <h> Using Scoop for work ? <p> Scoop is free for personal use , but you 'll need a licence for work use . This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop . Join today with plans starting from less than $3 per week , plus gain access to exclusive Pro features . 
@@119053736 <h> Ms Rachel : The rise of the Taylor Swift for toddlers <h> Share this article <p> Reminder , this is a Premium article and requires a subscription to read . <p> Rachel Accurso might be this era 's Mister Rogers , if he had been on YouTube , TikTok and Instagram . Toy companies and publishers all want a piece of the action . <p> About a year and a half ago , Laura Henderson , a toy company executive and 38-year-old mother in Toronto , was at the tail end of maternity leave with her second child . She was bleary-eyed and overwhelmed , as mothers juggling an infant and toddler tend to be , when she started scrolling TikTok and stumbledupon the children 's personality known as Ms Rachel . <p> That name probably means nothing to you -- unless you regularly spend time with a child under the age of 3 , in which case you 're likely aware that she is essentially Taylor Swift for toddlers . Ms Rachel is the star of a mega-viral YouTube channel created with her husband ( known to viewers as " Mr Aron " ) who makes educational musical videos for the baby and toddler set , complete with bursts of animation and Broadway-worthy show tunes . <p> In the videos , dozens of which each top 100 million views , Ms Rachel , whose real name is Rachel Accurso , cheerfully speaks to young viewers while wearing a signature outfit of denim overalls , a pink T-shirt and a knotted pink headband . Little ones go wild for her version of Hop Little Bunnies and for characters like a fluffy orange puppet named Herbie , voiced by her husband , Aron Accurso . She does a lot of peekaboo and dramatic wondering of " what 's in " boxes : " What 's in the box ? What could it be ? Will you take a look inside the box with me ? " <p> Henderson quickly fell into a rabbit hole as she read enthusiastic online reviews of Ms Rachel from parents and child development experts , many of whom cited the research that underpinned her teaching techniques , and decided she had to find the woman behind the character . Her goal : to work with her and her husband on a toy line for her company , Spin Master . <p> That idea has paid off in spectacular fashion . This holiday season , Spin Master marketed a series of Ms Rachel toys , including a plush version of Rachel herself , which have been programmed to sing and coo phrases just like she does on YouTube . Amazon and Target report that the toy has been flying off their virtual and physical shelves , and Walmart says it was the most successful presale for any toy line in company history . By the time the holidays are over , Ms Rachel is expected to be the top new toy licence this year , according to the data analytics company Circana , with a collection that includes a " surprise learning box " and wooden blocks . <p> Rachel Accurso and her husband , Aron Accurso , have combined their education and backgrounds to create their YouTube series . She has degrees in education , and he is a musician and former Broadway musical director . Photo / Amy Lombard , The New York Times <p> The supercharged journey of toys from YouTube screens to retail sensation illustrates the seismic changes afoot in children 's media and how modern parents are navigating that world . Accurso joins a long line of entertainers who have been uniquely magnetic to young children over the decades , like Fred Rogers , Shari Lewis of Lamb Chop 's Play-Along and Steve from Blue 's Clues . But her rise has been fuelled by YouTube , rather than PBS or Nickelodeon , and enhanced by her presence on TikTok and Instagram , where her handle is @MsRachelForLittles , and where nearly eight million millennial and Generation Z parents connect to her . <p> The new line of toys , as well as a separate book deal with Random House ( Ms Rachel and the Special Surprise debuted as a No 1 children 's picture book this fall ) , is the couple 's first real expansion beyond the digital world , where they have mainly made money from YouTube ads . It 's the start of what could be a sizable children 's media empire worth millions -- a development that almost seems to have caught the couple by surprise . <p> " It was n't , as the young people say , on our bingo card to be creators together on a children 's show , " Rachel Accurso said in an interview with her husband at their New York City apartment . ( It was a bit jarring to see her in a navy patterned sweater and jeans , no pink headband or overalls in sight . ) " We just did it to try and help little ones in the beginning , and we actually did n't quite know YouTube had the reach it has . " <h> A billion views on YouTube <p> Rachel and Aron met at a church in New York -- she 's from Maine , he 's from Colorado -- and after getting married and becoming parents , she came up with the idea for their YouTube series soon after their son turned 1 and they learned that he had a speech delay . <p> Rachel Accurso searched unsuccessfully for slow-paced videos that were focused on language development to supplement their son 's speech pathology services . So she decided to fill the void with videos of her own . She sang and acted along with songs like Open , Shut Them and Barney 's I Love You , offering a virtual version of music classes . ( Accurso said Thomas , who said his first word at 2 years , 8 months , is now a 6-year-old chatterbox . ) <p> The couple 's first YouTube video , Bubble , Bubble Pop ! Fun circle time song for kids ! , posted February 13 , 2019 , got hundreds of views -- it has now been streamed 9.5 million times -- and started a following for Rachel that has since grown exponentially . This year , their YouTube channel nearly tripled to more than 12 million subscribers . It 's not the biggest kid-oriented account -- Blippi has 22 million , and CoComelon has 186 million -- but YouTube says the channel had one of the platform 's highest watch times on televisions in the past year . <p> The videos , usually 60 to 90 minutes , are made up of small segments of dialogue and songs . Rachel often talks to viewers from a bedroom or a playground , waving , pointing and playing peekaboo . She praises viewers , as though they were responding to her -- clapping with a big smile and saying , " Yay ! " Pop-ups on the screen offer tips to parents , like " narrate your day like a sportscaster , " and share the expected ages for common milestones : waving hands at 11 months , blowing kisses at 13 months . <p> She and Aron perform their own surprisingly catchy original songs and classics , often appearing with illustrations of animals or buses , bringing to mind Julie Andrews and Dick Van Dyke in Mary Poppins . They also intersperse real footage of children and animals in the videos , especially with songs like Old MacDonald Had a Farm . <p> One of those baby learning videos ( First Words , Songs and Nursery Rhymes for Babies ) has reached 1 billion views . Mary Ellen Coe , YouTube 's chief business officer , said that figure was typically reached only by music videos -- first achieved by the 2012 K-pop classic Gangnam Style -- putting her in what Coe called " rarefied company " . <p> And the show has travelled well beyond the couple 's home . They recently posted videos with Sesame Street star puppets Elmo and Abby Cadabby as part of a collaboration pitched by Sesame Workshop , and Rachel Accurso has performed with pop star John Legend , who posted their video to Instagram , saying her work " meant so much " to his children . The Make-A-Wish Foundation said six critically ill children had met Accurso through their programme since early 2023 , the first year the organisation began to field any requests for her participation . <p> Rachel has managed to break through a seemingly endless pool of shows and characters vying for children 's attention in an era of great anxiety around youth screen time . Guidance from the American Academy of Paediatricians says that children under 18 months should be exposed to screens only through video-chatting and that 18- to 24-month-olds should be limited to educational programming viewed with a caregiver . The academy recommends that 2- to 5-year-olds be limited to an hour of non-educational programming daily . <p> Those restrictions collide with the realities of a generation of working parents who are under increased pressure to be hands-on when they 're with their children . For frazzled parents who might feel guilty about offering screens to their children , Ms Rachel 's focus on speech and education makes it feel like a safe option , and one that offers them ideas on how to talk and play with their little ones . It 's also something of an oasis on YouTube , which is replete with the television equivalent of junk food for toddlers , but which has also become one of the most popular streaming services on US televisions , as Americans increasingly watch the platform in their living rooms , rather than on phones and laptops . <p> Jennifer Nader , a 31-year-old mother from outside Boston , said that when her 19-month-old daughter , Cici , was born , she and her husband wanted her to avoid screens until she was 2 . " But you know how it is -- life ends up happening , " she said . " I was working from home , my husband was working from home , and we looked into YouTube . " <p> Nader was hesitant about much of what she saw until she came upon Ms Rachel . " It 's her singing voice , the fact she 's a teacher and she 's a natural talent , " Nader said when asked about her appeal . She said she also liked the diversity on the show , as the couple 's videos include actors from a range of backgrounds , including some who are Black or non-binary . <p> It 's now the only show that Cici watches . Nader and her husband speak Portuguese at home , and they credit the show for the dozens of English words that Cici has learned . Cici has also embraced the doll of Ms Rachel , which Nader was able to snag after signing up for a presale waiting list . ( The couple have , she added , come across two Brazilian imitations of Ms Rachel , but Cici , who dressed as Ms Rachel for Halloween , has ignored them . ) <p> Nader also follows Rachel Accurso on TikTok , where she talks about paid family leave , jokes about the Netflix show Bridgerton , and shares prayers for children in the Gaza Strip and Ukraine . ( The mere mention of Gaza prompted some bullying this year of Ms Rachel , who posted about it in tears , prompting comments from parents like : " We ride at dawn for Ms Rachel . " ) <p> " I always joke to my husband that YouTube Ms. Rachel is for kids but TikTok Ms. Rachel is for moms , " Nader said . <h> That voice is no accident <p> I 've seen the allure of Ms Rachel firsthand . I started putting the show on for my toddler daughter this year so she would n't wriggle while I cut her nails on Saturday mornings . She was enraptured , giggling and talking to the screen upon hearing questions like , " Can you say Dada ? " Quickly , she started begging for " manicures " every weekend . Ms Rachel has a similar effect on other tots -- TikTok and Instagram are rife with footage of children chatting with Ms Rachel on their televisions and , more recently , receiving the plush version of her with glee . <p> The Accursos may not have anticipated their success , but they were practically built in a lab for it . Rachel Accurso , 41 , holds master 's degrees in music education and early childhood development from New York University , and for several years taught music to students in preschool through second grade . Aron Accurso , 45 , is a pianist and musical director who worked on Broadway shows like Sister Act and Aladdin for more than 15 years before leaving last year to work on the Ms Rachel show full time . ( Several of the couple 's Broadway friends regularly appear on the show , which has grown increasingly professional over the years as the Accursos added a half-dozen employees and several regular freelancers to their production staff . ) <p> Peekaboo and asking kids " what 's in " boxes ( " What 's in the box ? What could it be ? Will you take a look inside the box with me ? " ) are staples of Ms Rachel 's repertoire . Photo / Amy Lombard , The New York Times <p> The doll of Accurso contains one of her signature attributes -- an exaggerated singsongy baby voice . That lilting cadence , which might startle first-time viewers , does not come by accident . It is known as " parentese , " and it 's effective in helping children imitate sounds and words because their own voices are high-pitched from small vocal cords , said Erika Cardamone , a speech language pathologist who practices near Philadelphia . Accurso often deploys it with repetition , gestures and the camera zooming in on her mouth . <p> " She uses a lot of fantastic strategies that we use as speech therapists at that really early stage of zero to 2 years , " Cardamone said . ( Comedians have , on occasion , parodied the distinct voice and gestures on TikTok and Instagram , deploying Accurso 's mannerisms to offer , say , margarita-making instructions . ) <p> The couple say they 're still getting used to frequent recognition by young children and their parents . <p> " It 's a great experience because really sweet people come up and say thanks for the show and it almost feels like we 're in a TV neighbourhood because they 'll say : ' Hi , Ms Rachel . Hi , Mr Aron , ' " Rachel Accurso said . Though she said that she once tried to say hello to a couple of children who were streaming her on their devices and that they did n't even look up . <h> From YouTube to toy shelves <p> The aisles of big-box stores reflect how YouTube has changed the face of children 's media ; they are filled with toys inspired by characters that can be found on that streaming service . There 's a line of Ryan 's World products inspired by Ryan Kaji , the child toy reviewer , and others featuring YouTube phenomena like Baby Shark , Blippi and even Skibidi Toilet , the curious and recently viral short-form series that 's popular with Gen Alpha , the generation born in the 2010s to mid-2020s . <p> " It 's a huge coup to go from YouTube to the toy shelf , " said Juli Lennett , a toy industry adviser at Circana . Shows for the youngest Americans were once the purview of television networks and often staffed by educational consultants and researchers . Platforms like YouTube , where anyone can make a video and beam it to the masses , have shaken up that model -- sometimes to the peril of youngsters , as some entertainers vie for their attention and corresponding ad money using lowbrow tactics like loud noises and flashing lights , knockoffs of beloved children 's characters or toy unboxing videos . <p> Jenny Radesky , a co-author of the American Academy of Paediatricians ' screen-time guidelines and a developmental behavioural paediatrician , said YouTube could be something of a Wild West for children 's media . She leads a lab at the University of Michigan Medical School that evaluates children 's media and scores it in areas like educational content , using a scale of zero to two , with two representing the highest quality . <p> " We are getting more and more questions from parents about what good content looks like on YouTube because I think it 's pretty hard to tell , " Radesky said . " It all looks cute -- primary letters and numbers and colours -- but there 's decades of research from child development and learning sciences on how digital media needs to be designed in order for younger kids to learn from it . " <p> Walmart says the Ms Rachel doll is the most successful presale for any toy line in company history . Photo / Amy Lombard , The New York Times <p> Examples of zeros on her lab 's rating scale include gimmicky YouTube videos about toys or movie trailers , while cartoons like CoComelon and the show Blippi tend to score ones because they are often simplistic and " could go deeper , " she said . <p> Ms Rachel videos typically score twos , with episodes of Sesame Street and Daniel Tiger , which deploy tactics like repetition and pauses so that kids can fill in the blanks from home . They also communicate concepts , like the sound of the letter A , to children in multiple ways , she said . <p> Aron and Rachel Accurso said they believed strongly in the accessibility of YouTube , though they acknowledge that there are parents who are uncertain about using the platform , especially with young children . <p> Rachel Accurso pointed to the groundbreaking work that Fred Rogers did with children 's television , saying , " We 're so inspired by Mister Rogers and ' Sesame Street ' and thinking about how committed he was toward making something beneficial for children with the medium " . <p> But the move into toys was a decision they weighed carefully . <p> " We wanted them to be really thoughtful and really high quality and affordable , " Rachel Accurso said . " We have the parents ' trust and we never want to take that lightly . " <h> The hunt for Ms Rachel <p> When Henderson decided to track Rachel Accurso down , she was n't sure where to begin -- so she got crafty about it . <p> She knew the show was filmed in New York , so she joined every Facebook mum group she could find in the city . She posted a screenshot of Ms Rachel on Instagram to see if anyone in her network might know her . She reached out to friends with Broadway connections after learning about Aron Accurso 's work . When Henderson finally scored a coffee date with Rachel Accurso -- ultimately arranged through the couple 's agents at Creative Artists Agency -- she scrambled to get a last-minute flight to make the meeting happen . <p> " I pictured having coffee with her mum to mum , one on one , and I just thought if I could get to her in person , we could really connect , " said Henderson , who previously led marketing for BuzzFeed . <p> Once the two began working together , the Ms Rachel line helped establish a new group for early learning toys at Spin Master , led by Henderson , which involves more than 30 employees . The company declined to share the details of its agreement with the Accursos , but typically , a licensing agreement like this one would require it to make the couple an upfront payment and offer a minimum guarantee on royalties from product sales . <p> Spin Master , which also sells Paw Patrol toys and Hatchimals , a line of furry stuffed creatures that hatch from eggs , told investors in October that the demand for Ms Rachel toys was " absolutely crazy " and that more merchandise was to come in 2025 . <p> All of the toys cost less than US$40 ( $70 ) , which was essential to Rachel Accurso , who said she grew up modestly and was once teased in junior high for wearing Walmart sneakers to gym class . She and Aron Accurso recently made a " play-along " episode featuring one of their toys . But they also provided free , printable paper cutouts on the Ms Rachel website , for viewers to play along for free . <p> And if you 're wondering whether it 's strange for the couple to know that a doll of Rachel Accurso is one of the hottest tickets of the holiday season , it is . " It was surreal giving notes on the doll , " Aron Accurso said . " I made sure that the doll had dimples and that they represented Rachel 's beautiful smile . " <p> Rachel Accurso added , " I joke that if it was a literal doll of me , it would be a mum with a bun and a cup of coffee " . 
@@119053814 <h> Global Insight : NZ reputation has ' dipped ' on world stage <p> New Zealand has failed to impress on the world stage in the face of important and surprising global events this year , Prof Robert Patman says . <p> The international relations specialist , speaking on Global Insight , says the way New Zealand has addressed some problems has left international observers ' ' not totally convinced ' ' . <p> This has occurred in a year that has held a number of unexpected and significant developments , he says . <p> ' ' I think it 's been a tumultuous and even barbaric year in many respects . " <p> The University of Otago academic points to the re-election of Donald Trump as president of the United States , the collapse of the Assad dictatorship in Syria , the weakness of US politics in the Middle East and swarms of Unidentified Aerial Phenomenon ( UAPs ) above sensitive military sites worldwide as key events of the past 12 months . <p> Against that backdrop , New Zealand has wrestled with related problems , particularly the possibility of joining the Aukus military alliance , the war in Gaza and climate change . <p> ' ' I think it 's been very much a work in progress for New Zealand in foreign policy , ' ' Prof Patman says . <p> ' ' I think our role has n't changed dramatically in substantive terms , but I think our reputation has dipped , particularly with our apparent backpedalling on climate change , which has not impressed some international observers . ' ' <p> Speaking on Global Insight , Prof Patman also spoke about how events of the past 12 months had undermined humanitarian law and had put the international rules-based system in a precarious position . <p> ' ' I would characterise the international order of 2024 ... as one characterised by alarm and hope . ' ' 
@@119054006 <p> Attacks:There are no safe places for the militarily-dominated population in Gaza , who find themselves subjected to airstrikes and other missile attackson buildings , homes and many essential facilities , as well as constant gunfire and invasions by Israeli forces.The Israeli Navycontinues to fire missiles , targeting facilities and buildings along the entire Gaza shoreline . <p> The Israeli military has spent the past year committing nearly every war crime imaginable against the people of Gaza . Now , as these ongoing atrocities fall from the headlines , Israel 's ultra-right-wing government is only expanding its radius of destruction . <p> In the first few months of the genocide , mainstream media outlets worked overtime to manufacture consent for the Israeli government 's mass slaughter of Palestinians . Now , these same outlets have seemingly wiped their hands of the responsibility to report on the US-funded horrors being carried out across Gaza . As international attention fades , the Israeli military is taking the opportunity to expand its campaign of terror and destruction to the wider region . <p> Zionism has always used the same blueprint . First , decimate the land and ethnically cleanse the people who live there . Then , colonise it . The goal remains the same : To gain as much territory for the Israeli state , with as few Palestinians or Arabs on it , as possible . <p> Now , we 're watching as this blueprint is brought to bear throughout the region . The ambitions of the ultra-right-wing extremists who control the Israeli government extend even beyond genocide and land theft in Palestine . Leaving the south of Lebanon decimated , Israeli forces are now looking to solidify their illegal claim to the Syrian Golan Heights through , of course , yet another massive bombing campaign . <p> If Trump 's first term in office is any indication , he 's likely to hand the extremist Israeli government a blank cheque to accelerate its policy of destruction and colonisation at any cost . This comes as no surprise : The right-wing in the US and Israel see their interests as intertwined , and the lives of Palestinians and other peoples throughout the region as entirely expendable . <p> With all this in mind , it 's crucial that we keep our eyes on Palestine -- and on Syria , Lebanon , and the entire region . At a glance , here 's the latest news on the ground : <p> Gaza <p> In Gaza , Israel 's genocide continues , despite the lack of US media coverage . This weekend , the Israeli military once again bombed hundreds of Palestinians living in so-called " safe zones " in Gaza , destroying two schools and a post belonging to rescue workers . Survivors described seeing " decapitated and shredded bodies " in the aftermath of the Israeli strike . <p> The official death toll in Gaza has now topped 45,000 , but realistic estimates of how many Palestinians have been killed by Israel are orders of magnitude greater , including both bombings and gunfire as well as injuries , lack of medical care , preventable diseases , and starvation . <p> Meanwhile , the Israeli military targeted and killed another beloved community member in Gaza , leading to an outpouring of grief and fears that , in the absence of international pressure , Israel will only escalate such targeted killings . Khaled Nabhan was the subject of a CNN report last year as he mourned his 3-year-old granddaughter , Neem , whom he called " the soul of his soul . " Neem was killed in an Israeli airstrike , and in the year since , Israeli forces bombed the homes of Khaled 's other family members , before murdering Khaled in a strike on Monday . <p> This is ethnic cleansing in action : Devastating images shared this week on social media showed Rafah -- once President Biden 's " red line " for supporting Israel 's operations -- before and after Israel 's genocide flattened the city . <p> West Bank <p> In the Occupied West Bank , Israeli ethnic cleansing continues as armed settlers and the Israeli military collude to steal Palestinian land at gunpoint . Last week , Israeli settlers attacked the home of Palestinian elder Abu Ashraf , occupying his home while he was detained by Israeli police . This is exactly how settlers and the Israeli state work hand-in-glove to brutalise Palestinians and steal their homes and land . <p> Earlier this month , Israeli forces bombed and killed four Palestinians in the village of Sir . The Israeli military and settlers have killed at least 790 Palestinians since October 2023 : an enormous spike in Israeli violence in the West Bank that the US media has barely acknowledged . <p> Syria <p> Following the collapse of the Assad regime in Syria , the Israeli Government has jumped at the opportunity to further exploit its neighbours ' instability , carrying out more than 800 strikes in the last week alone . On Sunday night , Israeli forces dropped an " earthquake bomb " in the Syrian Tartous coastal region , a weapon so destructive it registered on the Richter scale . <p> Israel 's bombardment " has rendered Syria completely defenceless . " It 's through this illegal invasion that Israel hopes to solidify its control over the occupied Syrian Golan Heights -- and ensure a future Syria too weak to resist its settler-colonial plans for the entire region . <p> Lebanon <p> The Israeli military is touting its decimation of villages in Lebanon 's south in an attempt to convince Israelis who have fled from the northern border of Israel to return home . Meanwhile , the Israeli military is still in Lebanon , and refuses to allow Lebanese from the south to return to rebuild their destroyed villages . <p> Since midnight on 07 October 2023 , Occupation forces have been imposing a complete closure around the whole of the West Bank , preventingpeople , including even permit -- holders , from entering both the city of Jerusalem as well as Israel otherwise than for specially negotiated exceptions . Permanent military checkpoints impose severe travel restrictions within the Occupied West Bank . <p> Leslie Bravery is a Londoner with vivid World War Two memories of the Nazi blitz on his home town . In 1947/1948 His father explained to him what was happening to the Palestinians thus : " Any ideology or political movement that creates refugees in the process of realising its ambitions must be inhuman and should be opposed and condemned as unacceptable . " What followed confirmed this assessment of the Zionist entity a hundredfold . Now a retired flamenco guitarist , with a lifelong interest in the tragedy of what happened to the Palestinian people , he tries to publicise their plight . Because the daily injustices they suffer barely get a mention in the mainstream news media , Leslie edits/compiles a daily newsletter , In Occupied Palestine , for the Palestine Human Rights Campaign . These days , to preserve his sanity , he enjoys taking part in a drama group whenever possible ! 
@@119054009 <p> The Government 's planned changes to the freedom of speech obligations of universities is little more than a front for stoking the political fires of disinformation and fear , placing teachers and students in the crosshairs . <p> " This has nothing to do with free speech , this is about polluting our public discourse for political gain , " says the Green Party 's spokesperson for Tertiary Education , Francisco Hernadez . <p> " Universities play a critical role in our society , providing a platform for informed and reasoned debate , the kind of debate that allows us to grow . <p> " Our universities should be able to decide who is given a platform on their campuses , not David Seymour . These changes risk turning our universities into hostile environments unsafe for marginalised communities . <p> " Misinformation , disinformation , and rhetoric that inflames hatred towards certain groups has no place in our society , let alone our universities . Freedom of speech is fundamental , but it is not a licence to harm . It is imperative universities are trusted to ensure the balance is struck between academic freedom and a duty of care . <p> - Sponsor Promotion - <p> " Today 's announcement has also come with a high dose of unintended irony . David Seymour is speaking out of both sides of his mouth by on the one hand claiming to support freedom of speech , but on the other looking to limit the ability universities have to take stances on issues , like the war in Gaza for example . <p> " This is an Orwellian attempt to limit discourse to the confines of the Government 's agenda . This is about stoking fear and division for political gain . <p> " Universities are already navigating significant challenges under this Government , including chronic underfunding , and stretched resources . Rather than legislative mandates which will divert attention from the essential work of education , we must support universities to help us isolate misinformation from information and absolutism from nuance , " says Francisco Hernandez. 
@@119062752 <h> West and media are ' erasing ' Palestinian history , say critics <p> This image " will haunt history " - how did humanity allow this ? Palestinian history is is being " erased " as part of Western news media narratives , according to leading academics . Image : X/@RyanRozbiani <p> Asia Pacific Report <p> Palestinian history is " deliberately ignored " and is being effectively " erased " as part of Western news media narratives , while establishment forces work to shut down anyone speaking out against Israel 's slaughter in Gaza , academics have told a university conference of legal and Middle East experts . <p> Although the conference took place over one and-a-half days in July and brought together Arab , Muslim , Jewish and Indigenous speakers from Palestine , Australia , Germany , Japan , the United States and the United Kingdom , details have only just been released . <p> The release of the conference proceedings comes more than one year on from the start of the Israeli War on Gaza , now extended into Lebanon , Syria and Yemen , with arrest warrants issued by the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) for Israel 's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defence Minister Yoav Gallant , and an Amnesty International investigation concluding Israel is committing genocide against Palestinians in Gaza . <p> The western media has ranged from selective reporting of facts ... and publishing outright lies that justify the murder of Palestinians . <p> By comparison 63 journalists were killed in 20 years of the Vietnam War . <p> Posed war crime questions The conference posed major questions regarding the erasing of Palestinian history , how it enables present-day war crimes and how defiance has resonated and inspired ongoing resistance by : <p> Palestinians fighting to defend their lives and their land , or as seen around the world , in civic protests ; <p> the BDS ( Boycott , Divestment and Sanctions ) movement ; <p> human rights advocacy ; <p> alternative social media production ; and <p> legal challenges in the highest of our international institutions , the ICC and the International Court of Justice . <p> The conference was officially opened with the Welcome to Country , from Uncle Greg Simms , Gadigal elder of the Dharug Nation . <p> Uncle Greg spoke about the importance of land and country to the survival of Australia 's Indigenous people , the role of ancestral ties and connections , the importance of history and allies in the face of genocide , and the need to empathise with the people of Palestine at this time . <p> Dr Janine Hourani 's address . Video : UTS <p> Janine Hourani from the University of Exeter and Palestinian Youth Movement , in her keynote speech detailed the history of Palestinian resistance to Zionist occupation , addressing how the recording of history , privileged by a select few , served to stifle narratives , as well as erase key figures and moments in time , " reproducing a particular version of Palestinian history that focuses on defeat and loss , rather than resistance and rebellion " . <p> " The Western media has ranged from selective reporting of facts , reporting Palestinians as ' died ' and Israeli settlers as ' murdered ' and publishing outright lies that justify the murder of Palestinians , " said Hourani . <p> " Since October we 've heard multiple political interventions being made about the Western media 's complicity in the current genocide in Palestine . " <p> Souheir Edalbi , a law lecturer at Western Sydney University , convened the session that followed , featuring four speakers . <p> Udi Raz , an academic and activist based in Germany , presented a case study of Mizrahi or Arab Jews in Germany , interrogating the definition of semitism and otherness in that context , the culturally pervasive racism towards Arabs , and German anxieties about what constitutes a non-European identity . <p> Annie Pfingst , an author and academic , listed 11 different types of " erasure " by Israel , from the confiscation , possession and renaming of Palestinian villages through to the holding of Palestinian bodies killed by the Israeli forces , not returned to their families , or buried in the " cemetery of numbers " . <p> She described a " necrological regime " that turns dead bodies into prisoners of the state , penalising and torturing the community , serving " to further evict the native in line with the structure of the settler colonial imperative of elimination " . <p> We have seen many instances of pro-Palestinian voices who have been sacked from their work places . <p> Jessica Holland , a researcher , curator and archivist , discussed how the history of archiving of Palestinian material is " deeply embedded within a legacy of coloniality " , and the importance of Palestinian social history and archiving projects , in redressing and countering hegemonic understandings and organisation of materials . <p> " We have seen in the past few days the treatment of Senator Fatima Payman and the intimidation , bullying and silencing she has endured . <p> " We have also seen many instances of pro-Palestinian voices who have been sacked from their work places . " <p> On day two of the conference Aunty Glendra Stubbs gave the Acknowledgement of Country , which was followed by the keynote speaker Jeff Halper , anthropologist , author , lecturer , political activist and director of the Israeli Committee Against House Demolitions . <p> Normalising violence Halper addressed how Israel as a Zionist settler colonial state normalises violence , erasure and apartheid against Palestinians , where physical and cultural genocide are built in , necessitating indigenous resistance . <p> A second panel , " Social Movements , in Defiance " , convened by Alison Harwood , a social change practitioner , included speakers Nasser Mashni from the Australia Palestine Advocacy Network ( APAN ) , Sarah Schwartz from the Jewish Council of Australia , and Latoya Rule from UTS Jumbunna Institute for Indigenous Education and Research . <p> Speakers shared insights on how social movements mobilise from within their diverse communities , to reach and potentially impact the Australian and international social and political stage . <p> Interdisciplinary storyteller and media producer Daz Chandler presented a series of pre-recorded interviews and a live discussion with participants involved in University campus encampments from around the world including activists from Birzeit University in the Occupied West Bank , Mexico , Trinity College in Dublin , UCLA , the University of Melbourne , University of Tokyo , University of Sydney and Monash University . <p> Each reflected on their work and the challenges they encountered in their respective professional fields . Obstructions they faced ranged from hindering and silencing the expression of ideas , through to the prevention of carrying out critical on-the-ground work to save lives . <p> Hometown of Nablus The final panel of the conference was moderated by Derek Halawa , a Palestinian living in the diaspora , who shared his experience of travelling to his hometown of Nablus . <p> He followed virtual footsteps from his cousin 's video , through the alley ways , to reach the home of his great grandfather , a journey which culminated in reaching the steps of Al Aqsa Mosque , with both spaces symbolising belonging and hope . <p> Cathy Peters , media worker and co-founder of BDS Australia described a diverse range of disruption movements calling for the end of ties with Israeli companies , since the war on Gaza . <p> This was followed by RIta Jabri Markwell , solicitor and adviser to the Australian Muslim Advocacy Network , addressing specific points of Australian law dealing with terrorism , freedom of speech , and racial discrimination . <p> The conference , which was was co-convened by Barbara Bloch , Wafa Chafic , James Goodman , Derek Halawa and Christina Ho , concluded with UTS Sociology Professor James Goodman giving an overview of the proceedings and potential actions post-conference . <p> One post-conference outcome is an additional series of interviews produced by Daz Chandler exploring the power of creative practices utilised within the Palestinian resistance movement . 
@@119097394 <p> Social media censorship is a global phenomenon , but the war on pro-Palestinian views on social media represents a different kind of censorship , with consequences that can only be described as dire . <p> Long before the current devastating war on Gaza and the escalation of Israeli violence and repression in the occupied West Bank , Palestinian and pro-Palestinian voices have been censored . <p> Some date the censorship to an agreement in 2016 that , according to the Israeli government , sought to " force social networks to remove content that Israel considers to be incitement . " <p> This was translated , almost immediately , to the shutting down of thousands of accounts and the barring of many social media influencers , with the hope of slowing down the vastly growing pro-Palestinian tendencies in all Meta-linked platforms . <p> The war on Gaza , however , has escalated the censorship . In a report submitted to the United Nations Special Rapporteur on Freedom of Opinion and Expression , Human Rights Watch noted that the documented restrictions on freedom of speech " undermine the fundamental human rights to freedom of expression and assembly . " <p> Advertisement - scroll to continue reading <p> The censorship became so sophisticated and increasingly involved a direct Israeli role . To ensure that ' offenders ' to Israeli sensibilities were eliminated in large numbers , Meta began censoring specific words , thus deeming entire contents offensive , racist , and antisemitic . <p> But Meta was not the only social media network involved in this practice . On November 17 , 2023 , the X platform ( previously known as Twitter ) declared that users who write terms like " decolonization " , " from the river to the sea " , or similar expressions would be suspended . <p> One year later , the social media platform Twitch followed suit by revising its ' Hateful Content Policy ' to include " Zionist " as a potential slur . <p> Not only do these decisions , and many others , directly impair the freedom of speech and press , but they also confuse rational conversations with anti-Jewish sentiments . <p> The word ' genocide ' , for example , is not a swear word , but a common term , embraced by numerous countries around the world , accusing Israel of carrying out acts of genocide , meaning the " systematic destruction of a group of people because of their ethnicity , nationality , religion , or race " . <p> Under pressure from many countries , and after presenting a powerful case at the Hague , South Africa managed to compel the International Court of Justice to investigate Israel 's acts of genocide in the Gaza Strip in violation of the 1948 Genocide Convention . <p> In other words , this is not a matter for Mark Zuckerberg or any other social media company to decide , based on direct consultations with those carrying out the mass killings in Gaza . <p> The same applies to Zionism , an ideologically situated political movement , that traces its history to 19th-century Europe , thus , neither to a specific race nor a religious text . <p> While many are , rightly , outraged by the fact that this kind of widespread , and growing , censorship directly challenges the main tenants of democracy , the actual harm for Palestinians is much bigger . <p> According to a November 2024 report by the Sada Social Center for Digital Rights , the surge in digital violations targeting Palestinian content could not come at a worse time . <p> According to the organization , " Meta platforms accounted for the largest share of violations at 57% , followed by TikTok at 23% . " YouTube and X follow at 13 and 7% respectively . <p> This censorship , according to Sada , includes the shutting down of WhatsApp accounts , another Meta-owned platform that is also tightly controlled . <p> Unlike most of us , Palestinians in Gaza use these platforms to communicate with one another , to know who is dead and who is alive , and to raise awareness of certain massacres , often taking place in isolation , especially in the northern Gaza Strip . <p> Regarding northern Gaza , Sada Social spoke of a ' digital blackout ' , which has compounded the horror of that region - famine , mass killing , destruction of all hospitals , etc . <p> In the specific case of social media censorship in Gaza , lives are literally being lost as a result of politically motivated decisions . <p> HRW was one of many rights groups that have routinely spoken about the ' systematic censorship ' by Meta . A December 2023 HRW report identified the following recurring patterns of censorship : removal of content , suspension of pro-Palestinian accounts , the reduction of visibility , known as ' shadow-banning ' , the restrictions on engagement , and the deliberate misuse of policies on hate speech and graphic content . <p> The danger of this kind of censorship is multilayered . It is a direct threat to one of the most basic freedoms guaranteed under the law in any democratic society . In the case of Gaza , the censorship takes a dark , deadly turn as it could make the difference between people dying under the rubble of their homes or receiving assistance . <p> Additionally , censorship of this magnitude often creates precedents and often leads to other forms of censorship that , in fact , are already taking place against other vulnerable communities , whether on a national stage or globally . <p> While the international community is yet to translate its verbal solidarity with Palestinians into any meaningful action , the least we could do is to give Palestinians their full rights to express their views , share their pain , and raise awareness of their collective plight . The world owes them that much , and no social media company should be permitted to hinder such a simple and reasonable demand . <p> - Dr. Ramzy Baroud is a journalist , author and the Editor of The Palestine Chronicle . He is the author of six books . His latest book , co-edited with Ilan Papp ? , is ' Our Vision for Liberation : Engaged Palestinian Leaders and Intellectuals Speak Out ' . His other books include ' My Father was a Freedom Fighter ' and ' The Last Earth ' . Baroud is a Non-resident Senior Research Fellow at the Center for Islam and Global Affairs ( CIGA ) . His website is www.ramzybaroud.net <h> Using Scoop for work ? <p> Scoop is free for personal use , but you 'll need a licence for work use . This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop . Join today with plans starting from less than $3 per week , plus gain access to exclusive Pro features . 
@@119097405 <h> ' Dying Hungry And In Pain ' : An Increasingly Likely Outcome In Gaza <p> Speaking to correspondents via video link on Thursday , the senior OCHA official underscored the grim reality facing over two million people trapped in Gaza , where basic necessities like food , shelter , and safety have become scarce . <p> " Dying hungry and in pain " is an increasingly likely outcome for children , mothers , aid workers , and teachers alike , he said . <p> " We 're there to support the people who for more than 14 months have struggled to stay alive , " Mr. Petropoulos explained . " But we 're not allowed to do our jobs , " he emphasised . <h> Humanitarian operations under siege <p> OCHA has been striving to deliver food , healthcare , and safe drinking water to Gaza 's besieged population , but fuel shortages and blocked access routes have exacerbated the crisis . <p> Moreover , these efforts have been opposed by what Mr. Petropoulos referred to as " blanket prohibitions " from Israeli authorities . <p> " When we raise these things with Israeli authorities , they reject virtually every single practical solution that we table , " Mr. Petropoulos said , adding that " the aid system has been weaponised . " <p> He further revealed that aid delivery often becomes a race against time , with insufficient supplies to meet the growing needs of the population . <p> " As an aid worker in Gaza , you 're forced to make horrible decisions , " he described . " Should I let people die of starvation or of the cold ? Do we bring in more food to ease hunger or more plastic sheets for some shelter from the rain at night ? " , he illustrated . <h> North Gaza : Mass displacement and destruction <p> Advertisement - scroll to continue reading <p> North Gaza , under near-total siege for 75 days , has become a site of intensified military operations . <p> Mr. Petropoulos described chilling reports of mass casualties , the destruction of entire communities , and forced displacements under bombardment . <p> " The Israeli corridor bisecting the strip , has been fortified to such a degree that it 's not really a corridor anymore , " he said , noting that 150 requests for humanitarian access have been denied since October . <p> Even when supplies manage to reach shelters or hospitals , they are often destroyed in subsequent attacks . <h> A call on Member States <p> Mr. Petropoulos called on Member States to uphold their obligations under international humanitarian law and to ensure the protection of civilians . <p> He emphasised the need for a ceasefire and immediate , complete humanitarian access . <p> " We need to get to people wherever they are , " he said . " We need to prove the impact of this response based on how people are doing and not the numbers of trucks , " he added . <p> The UN has consistently warned of the escalating humanitarian catastrophe in Gaza , with UN Secretary-General Ant ? nio Guterres urging all parties to respect the principles of international humanitarian law and facilitate aid delivery to those in need . <p> As the crisis intensifies , the UN 's humanitarian system in Gaza faces its greatest test yet , operating " hand to mouth " with little reserves left . <h> Using Scoop for work ? <p> Scoop is free for personal use , but you 'll need a licence for work use . This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop . Join today with plans starting from less than $3 per week , plus gain access to exclusive Pro features . 
@@119097522 <h> A world on fire : the World Bulletin year in review <p> Looking back at the events that made headlines around the globe in 2024 . <p> This is an excerpt from The World Bulletin , our weekly global current affairs newsletter exclusively for Spinoff Members . Sign up here . <p> If you 're anything like me , you 'll be hard pressed to think of a grimmer year than the one we 've just lived through . The odd happy headline aside , following world events in 2024 meant regularly steeling yourself to open your news app of choice , while trying your best to avoid becoming wholly numb to the barrage of death , destruction and threats to democracy . <p> A Palestinian woman in the Al-Maghazi refugee camp in the central Gaza Strip on January 16 , 2024 . ( Photo by AFP ) ( Photo by -/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> Across the Atlantic , Trump 's return to the White House has jolted the United States and the global order , igniting fierce debates about the future of democracy itself . Meanwhile , the climate crisis has battered the planet with unrelenting force , from catastrophic floods to searing heatwaves , painting a stark portrait of a world on the brink . <p> And yet , in the midst of this maelstrom , a glimmer of hope has emerged . In an astonishing turn of events , this month the long-oppressed Syrian people saw the fall of Bashar al-Assad 's iron-fisted regime . The toppling of Assad , once deemed unthinkable , has sparked joyous celebrations and some fragile optimism within a nation battered by a 13-year civil war . It 's a reminder that even in the darkest times , the possibility of liberation and transformation endures . <p> From attempted assassinations to heatwaves and hurricanes , here 's what the world was talking about in 2024 . <p> A bullet-riddled portrait of Syrian president Bashar al-Assad adorning Hama 's municipality building after it was defaced following the capture of the city by anti government fighters , on December 6 , 2024 . ( Photo by OMAR HAJ KADOUR/AFP via Getty Images ) <h> January <p> South Korean opposition leader Lee Jae-myung is stabbed in the neck by a 67-year-old man who wrote in his manifesto that he was " priming the pump for action and aspiration by free people to save the country " from left-wing forces . Lee survives the attack . In the US , the Federal Aviation Authority grounds all Boeing 737 Max 9 planes after an Alaska Airlines aircraft loses a door section of its fuselage mid-air and makes an emergency landing . The presidential primaries are in full swing , and already Donald Trump looks unstoppable . Florida governor Ron DeSantis , once seen as Trump 's likely successor , ends his campaign for the Republican nomination and endorses his rival . It 's not all good news for Trump , though . In New York , a jury orders him to pay writer E. Jean Carroll $83.3 million for defamation related to a 2023 sexual abuse case . <p> A portrait of late Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny at a makeshift memorial in front of the former Russian consulate in Frankfurt am Main , western Germany , on February 19 , 2024 , three days after Navalny died in a Russian Arctic prison ( Photo -/AFP via Getty Images ) <h> February <p> Alexei Navalny , the prominent Russian opposition figure and vocal critic of president Vladimir Putin , dies while serving a 19-year sentence at the Polar Wolf penal colony in Tyumen Oblast , Russia . He is 47 . At least 118 people are killed and 760 others are wounded in Gaza City after Israeli forces fire on civilians receiving humanitarian aid , in what comes to be known as the " flour massacre " . In the aftermath , Israel says it had carried out what it called " limited shootings " of people it claimed had been looting , maintaining that most victims had been killed in the crush . The death toll in Gaza stands at more than 30,000 , according to the Gazan health ministry . King Charles III announces he has been diagnosed with cancer following a medical examination . <h> March <p> Both Donald Trump and Joe Biden are confirmed as their parties ' nominees for the presidential election , having surpassed the delegate threshold in their respective primaries . Russian president Vladimir Putin is reelected to a fifth term in office with 87% of the vote -- albeit with no real opposition . At least 137 people are killed and more than 80 others are injured in a mass shooting at the Crocus City Hall music venue in Moscow , with the building subsequently catching on fire following an explosion . The terror group Islamic State claims responsibility , and four Tajik men are later charged with the attack . <p> The Francis Scott Key Bridge in Baltimore collapses after the container ship Dali strikes a bridge column , causing multiple vehicles to fall into the water below . And the British royal family is struck another blow with the Princess of Wales ' announcement that she has been diagnosed with cancer . <p> Gisele Pelicot arrives at the Avignon courthouse , to attend the trial of her former partner Dominique Pelicot accused of drugging her for nearly ten years and inviting strangers to rape her at their home . ( Photo by Christophe Simon/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> The Spinoff 's political coverage is powered by the generous support of our members . If you value what we do and believe in the importance of independent and freely accessible journalism -- tautoko mai , donate today . 
@@119097523 <p> With the cost of living sky high and streamers doing all they can to keep us cemented to our couches , the idea of going out for a night at the movies felt like quite the luxury experience in 2024 . This is reflected in declining cinema attendance around the world , with the local industry reportedly still 25% below what it was in 2019 , and some smalltown independent cinemas struggling to keep the lights on . Still , there are glimmers of hope . Here are the movie experiences we loved this year , from the big , bold blockbusters that had us all singing in the aisles , the festival darlings that challenged and changed us , and the spooky serial killer flicks that scared the crap out of us . <h> Wicked <p> Let 's get the bad out of the way : yes , the lighting is horrendous and somehow everyone is backlit from every angle . It did n't need to be nearly three hours long when it 's only the first part . And as much as I love her , Michelle Yeoh 's icon status is not enough to excuse the fact that her voice is three grades below her nearest co-star . There were enough mega famous names to justify casting an actual singer in every singing part . <p> But despite all of that , I went to see Wicked with virtually no knowledge of the material and it was the most fun I 've had at the movies in years . Ariana Grande is a true star with comedic timing that never ceased to amaze me . Cynthia Erivo is just a perfect voice . The weird press tour energy means their chemistry really , really works . And it 's all helped by being based on a musical that millions of people have adored already . If the lighting was even just decent , I 'd pick it for Best Picture for sheer movieness . Unfortunately the lighting was horrific and therefore it will just have to be the only movie I 've ever paid to see twice in its original run . / Madeleine Chapman <h> We Were Dangerous <p> Like any human with a beating heart , I 'm a sucker for a coming-of-age story , and there were many parts of We Were Dangerous that felt on par with some of the very best of the genre . Set in the 1950s on a scorched golden Banks Peninsula outpost , the film follows a trio of rebel pals at Te Motu , an island school for " incorrigible and delinquent girls " . <p> Directed by Josephine Stewart-Te Whiu and written by Maddie Dai , the film delves into complex issues like colonisation , patriarchy and abuse of power , but all with an remarkably deft lightness of touch that leaves it a soaring celebration of misfits and girlhood , rather than another maudlin addition to our cinema of unease . In fact , parts of it are extremely funny and there 's a joyful scene that rivals the likes of Girlhood and How to Have Sex in its depiction young girls dancing like nobody is watching . Also , Rima Te Wiata as The Matron is surely the local film performance of the year . / Alex Casey <h> Didi <p> Speaking of coming-of-age charmers , Didi was my favourite from the film festival this year . Set in 2008 , when your Myspace top eight was the defining social strata and YouTube was a place strictly for skate videos and lo-fi parody songs , Taiwanese-American kid Chris is flubbing his way through friendship and family drama . Although its a classic case of being caught between worlds -- the cute kid brother making videos with his grandma at home and the suave skater boy trying to woo his crush online -- Didi resists falling into cliche . <p> Instead , it manages to be surprising , deeply moving and hilarious while still feeling kinda downbeat and low-key . It is also a perfect rendering of the primitive social media age , and a treat to be a part of the firmly millennial audience who know the gravity of a &lt;3 instead of a : ) on your flip phone . / AC <h> La Chimera <p> My favourite film of 2024 was actually released in 2023 but I only discovered it via AroVision and the Italian Film festival this year . It is set in Tuscany in the 80s and stars Josh O'Connor ( young King Charles in The Crown ) as Arthur , a grieving archaeologist with a gift for divining Etruscan tombs for looting . O'Connor is sublime in the role : intense , sad , grubby and searching . The cast of fellow tomb raiders form a charming , surreal gaggle around him : they 're all shabby , grasping at a living by messing with the stuff of the dead . Isabella Rossellini is fantastic as a sharp , elderly voice coach ; and Carol Duarte is beguiling as her wayward , lively singing student/maid who is hiding two kids in Rossellini 's run-down mansion . <p> The deeper story of grief in the film is gorgeous , heart-breaking and magical . Director Alice Rohrwacher has crafted a timeless piece of cinema that is worlds away from all the hollywood meh and everything a movie should be . / Claire Mabey <h> Challengers <p> The year 's sweatiest and horniest film , without any sex -- just a whole lot of Luca Guadagnino-style erotic kissing and objects acting as symbolic genitals . It 's supposed to be a film about a woman whose promising career in tennis was shattered by an injury , and now she 's a mother and wife to a family she does n't care for , and would trade her tennis champion husband for her rookie lover in a heartbeat . <p> But mostly , it 's a film that feels like a tennis match -- the camerawork is sharp , cinematography crisp , atmosphere dripping and the soundtrack by Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross wraps it up in a nice , sweaty and adrenalin inducing film . It also unfortunately gave us the Hot Rodent Man trend , and the ability to now look at any trio with a vague sexual tension between them and say " I 'm telling my children this was Challengers " . / Lyric Waiwiri-Smith <h> Zone of Interest <p> Sometimes movies are n't meant to be at all enjoyable and Zone of Interest is one of those movies . Rudolph H ? ss was the Nazi commandant of the Auschwitz concentration camp . He and his wife Hedwig live next door to the camp , growing vegetables , raising their children and hosting parties as thousands of Jews are executed over the fence . Their home lives and concerns are as mundane as any one else 's , which is the whole point . <p> Early in the film there is a scene where Hedwig tries on a fur coat that was confiscated from a Jewish woman , posing in the mirror and frowning at her slightly protruding stomach . It 's a quiet and horrifying scene . After seeing the movie back in March , I opened up a social media app on my phone and watched an IDF soldier standing in a home in Gaza , holding up " gifts " for his wife that he 'd found among the Palestinian owners ' belongings . Zone of Interest is a must-see movie , if only to remind us of what is currently happening over our own fences . / MC <h> Longlegs <p> I want to be clear that this movie makes absolutely no sense , but boy did it provide one of the most fun cinema experiences I had this year . Nicolas Cage plays a terrifying satanic Mickey Rourke lookalike who goes by the name of Longlegs , a freaky fellah who has long evaded law enforcement in his decades-long staging of murder-suicides with huge occult vibes . While Maika Monroe is great as the detective trying to crack his code , Longlegs lives and dies on Nicolas Cage , whose rendition of ' Happy Birthday ' has to be the scariest thing I 've seen this year . <p> While Longlegs is essentially hollow horror homage all the way down from the director ( who is Anthony Perkins son ) , to the clear Silence of the Lambs setting , to the Zodiac flourishes , the sold out Terror-Fi session was still a bloody good time . I challenge anyone not to flinch in the opening sequence . / AC <h> All We Imagine As Light <p> All We Imagine As Light is an incredibly dreamy film set in monsoonal Mumbai , where central characters Prabha , Anu and Parvati work together in a big hospital . Prabha , played by Kani Kusruti , is a gentle and capable nurse , slightly bemused by her husband moving to Germany and stopping the calls back home . She 's a compassionate roommate to Anu ( Divya Prabha ) , a younger nurse who is controversially in love with a Muslim boy , and whose quick efficiency -- for example , prescribing birth control pills to a worried patient -- is offset by her love of sauntering around Mumbai , trying on sunglasses and kissing in the rain . Prabha and Anu work together to help their colleague Parvati , a cook , move after a lack of documentation means she is forced from her home by property developers . <p> As the characters shift between speaking Malayalam , from their home state of Kerala , Marathi and Hindi , the film investigates what women 's freedom looks like in extremely unequal contemporary India , and how there is space for playfulness and intrigue even within restrictive social codes . With lush shots of monsoon downpours , apartments at night and sprawling beaches , the movie has a total confidence in the beauty of the world . After a festival run , it 'll be back in cinemas from Boxing Day . I 'm planning to go and see it again with my sister . / Shanti Mathias <h> Twisters <p> The past few years have seen big tent pop culture become increasingly coded toward a Democrat worldview , whether through messaging ( the feminist awakening of Greta Gerwig 's Barbie ) or outright endorsement ( Taylor Swift ) . As the last election proved , that was on some level alienating to at least half of the US voting population . Hollywood remains a hits business , and after multiple years with multiplexes trading down double digits , Twisters suggests that Michael Jordan 's famous " Republicans buy sneakers too " truism is being reabsorbed at an institutional level . <p> The film is a reimagining of the 1996 original , and features an extremely on-the-nose pair of cyphers for each side of the political aisle . The Democrat-coded crew are all science and climate change and secretly working for a dastardly corporation . The Republicans are YouTubers who look unserious but deep down have a heart of gold . It 's so silly , but undeniably entertaining in its naked financially-motivated pandering . It also took in US$371m against a budget of US$155m -- so expect many more movies with country soundtracks venerating middle America in years to come . / DG <h> Letterboxd 's Four Favourites <p> Not strictly a movie , but in many ways a series of short films entirely regarding movies . Film review site Letterboxdis an incredible local success story , now with millions of users around the world nattering about what movies they have been loving and loathing . But perhaps even more importantly than that , Letterboxd has created a great interview format that endlessly delivers gorgeous insights into the rich and famous : four favourites . It 's a very simple question -- what are your four favourite films ? -- that provokes staggeringly different answers , interpretations , energies and pronunciations . How else would we know that Halsey has a huge tattoo from Portrait of a Lady on Fire , or that Anne Hathaway loves Dancer in the Dark , or that Nicholas Galatzine loooooves Shrek 2 ? Take four favourites to the family gathering this Christmas and let the good times roll . / AC <h> American Fiction <p> Justice for pop culture released right at the end of the year ! American Fiction technically came out in mid-December 2023 , but I watched it in January and have been thinking about it all year . Adapted from a 2001 Percival Everett novel , American Fiction concerns an academic who , frustrated by the white acclaim poured onto books with a very narrow vision of Black American experience , writes what he intends as a ludicrous parody of the genre , only to have it become a huge hit . <p> Director Cord Jefferson spent years writing for Gawker , and American Fiction has some deeply funny elements of the site 's unblinking eye for the phoniness of US cultural elites . But it has this thread of un-Gawkerish empathy for all participants in the system too , helped by a deeply felt performance from Jeffrey Wright . Few pieces of pop culture have even attempted such a sophisticated analysis of the intellectual banalities of this era -- to achieve a bullseye while also being so consistently entertaining is truly remarkable . / Duncan Greive <h> A Real Pain <p> If you want to see Kieran Culkin and Jesse Eisenberg playing thee most Kieran Culkin and Jesse Eisenberg characters that could ever be conjured upon a silver screen , I would run as fast as you can to see A Real Pain when it opens here on Boxing Day . The pair play cousins who were joined at the hip growing up , but have grown apart in adulthood . Eisenberg 's David is a straight-laced family man and Culkin 's Benji a loose unit in a tie dye hoodie , clearly now polar opposites when they reunite at the airport to embark on a trip to Poland to honour their late grandmother . <p> What begins as a truly hilarious misfit road movie slowly peels back the layers of family tension and intergenerational trauma , and ends up something else entirely . Written and directed by Eisenberg himself , the script sometimes explains a tad too much , but both the lead performances ( particularly Culkin 's , which has mega Oscar buzz already ) made this one of the more memorable movies of 2024 for me. / AC <p> Sign up to Rec Room , The Spinoff 's weekly guide to the very best in entertainment , delivered to your inbox every Friday . 
@@119097717 <h> John Macdonald : Free speech rules should n't stop at universities <p> Here 's how I would sum up the Government 's changes to the free speech rules for universities . <p> It wants more Posie Parkers and less posey political statements . <p> Which I 've got no problem with - but I do n't think it should stop at universities . I think the Government also needs to look at other public entities , such as local councils , which actually seem to be making more posey political statements than universities . <p> Because , if the Government does n't want universities taking positions on things like the war in Gaza because - whatever position they take - wo n't reflect the views of all staff and students , then the same could apply to local councils , could n't it ? <p> If a council boycotts Israel , for example , there 's no way everyone who works for these councils or who pays rates to these councils will agree , is there ? <p> Let me come back to that . But the gist of all this is that the Government wants two changes to the way universities deal with free speech . <p> For starters : It wants them to stop being so antsy about having guest speakers coming onto campus who might upset a few people with their views . <p> Which has seen some universities pull the plug on certain events . Massey University , for example , stopped Don Brash from giving a speech there once because of what one person described as his " separatist and supremacist rhetoric " . <p> A more recent example is Victoria University cancelling a freedom of speech debate this year because of concerns it would turn into a cesspit of hate speech . <p> So the Government wants no more of that . Because it thinks universities are places where all sorts of ideas and thoughts should be shared and debated . And I agree with that . <p> So that 's what I mean when I say it wants more Posie Parker . <p> The other change it 's making to the regulations that universities operate under , is to stop them taking positions on matters that don'tdirectly relate to their core business of research and teaching . <p> Now this is not something that is going to impact academics who enjoy what 's known as academic freedom - which pretty much means they can think and say what they want . Although some academics have questioned that in recent years , saying that they do n't feel as free to think and say what they want as they used to . <p> But , essentially , what the Government wants to stop is universities - as institutions - taking a view or a stance on international issues , for example . <p> Some of our universities have been under pressure to condemn Israel for what 's going on in Gaza and the Occupied Territories . But , as far as I 'm aware , none of them have given-in to that pressure . <p> The closest example I could find here in New Zealand is an announcement three months ago by Victoria University 's fundraising arm - the Victoria University Foundation - that it would be getting rid of its Israeli government bonds and its shares in companies listed in Israel . <p> So maybe this is a pre-emptive move by the Government , as much as anything . And it says the reason it 's doing this , is that if a university takes a stand on something - it does n't reflect the views of all staff and students , and that is unfair . <p> So , if that 's the motivation , then I reckon the Government needs to come down just as hard on other public entities . Public entities which , at the moment , seem to be going harder on this thing than any of our universities . <p> And I 'm thinking , specifically , about local councils around the country which have been more than happy to pile-in on Israel this year , with decisions to boycott companies which operate in Israeli settlements on Palestinian land . <p> But , if we apply the argument the Government 's using to stop universities taking positions on global issues - because they wo n't necessarily represent the views of all staff and students - then the same can be said of these local councils , ca n't it ? <p> In Nelson , for example , after the council there voted to go with a boycott - there were some pretty fired-up locals . The mayor Nick Smith , who voted against it , got a whole lot of abuse too . <p> And who says everyone working at these councils agrees with the position their employers have taken ? They wo n't . And who says everyone paying rates to these councils agrees with their anti-Israel positions ? They do n't . <p> Which is why I think the Government should be telling councils not to take political positions on issues outside their core business , just like it 's telling the universities . <p> Take your Radio , Podcasts and Music with you <h> Get the iHeart App <p> Get more of the radio , music and podcasts you love with the FREE iHeartRadio app . Scan the QR code to download now . <p> Download from the app stores <p> Stream unlimited music , thousands of radio stations and podcasts all in one app. iHeartRadio is easy to use and all FREE 
@@119097735 <p> Over 17,000 children have been confirmed killed in Israeli bombings and sniper fire with tens of thousands more injured or maimed . Another 17,000 children are " unaccompanied " having lost their families . <p> United Nations officials , international experts , the International Court of Justice and now Amnesty International have all used the term genocide to describe the actions of the Israeli Defence Forces in Gaza . <p> Last month the International Criminal Court issued arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Israeli Defence minister Yoav Gallant for war crimes and crimes against humanity . <p> All the red flags for genocide have been visible for over a year now but our coalition government is unmoved . <p> It 's not just Israeli leaders who are to blame for war crimes . New Zealand politicians stand in the dock alongside them for complicity through silence . Deafening silence . <h> 4 COMMENTS <p> The hostages will be returned by 20th January as Iran force Hamas to surrender and accept a peace deal , Iran are under pressure now to end their proxy wars against Israel . USA , Saudi , Israel itching to have a reason to attack Iran . Trump ending wars before he even takes office ! <p> I 'd bow to the man ( Trump ) if he 's able to end the Biden-era wars . He is the kingmaker though , the head of the true force behind all these wars , so he holds the power to end all this , but as all these wars are advancing US interests , then I ca n't see it happening . <p> Hamas , Hamas , Hamas . There Nathan , We do n't want people knowing it means " Islamist resistance movement " and was a creation of Israel . " One million Arabs are not worth one Jewish fingernail " Rabbi Yaccov Perin during the funeral of Baruch Goldstein who murdered 48 Palestinians in a Hebron Mosque in 1994 . You 're on the wrong side of history Son . 
@@119105875 <p> Fiji activists have recreated the nativity scene at a solidarity for Palestine gathering in Fiji 's capital Suva just days before Christmas . <p> The Fiji Women 's Crisis Centre and Fijians for Palestine Solidarity Network recreated the scene at the FWCC compound -- a baby Jesus figurine lies amidst the rubble wrapped in a piece of black and white checked fabric , a Palestinian keffiyeh , draped over his body . <p> The scene was created to symbolise the reality of the children living and being born in Palestine at this time . <p> " If Christ were to be born today , " said Pastor Munther Ishaq , " he would be born under the rubble and the Israeli shelling . " <p> Activists say the scenes witnessed over the past year in the besieged Gaza enclave support this imagery . <p> " Photos of children covered in dust , families bent over the bodies of loved ones , aid workers carrying the injured into hospitals that lack the elements needed to offer care , " said the FWCC in a social media post . <p> 45,000 Palestinians killed " Over the past year , Israeli attacks have killed more than 45,000 Palestinians living in Gaza , equal to 1 out of every 55 people living there . <p> " At least 17,000 children have been killed , the highest number of children recorded in a single year of conflict over the past two decades . <p> " More than 17,000 children have lost one or both parents . <p> " At least 97,303 people are injured in Gaza -- equal to one in 23 people . " <p> The Bethlehem nativity scene a year ago in December 2023 . Video : Al Jazeera 
@@119135673 <h> Share this article <p> Demonstrators gather with signs during an anti-government protest calling for action to secure the release of Israeli hostages held captive since the October 7 attacks by Palestinian militants in the Gaza Strip , outside the Israeli Defence Ministry headquarters in Tel Aviv on December 21 , 2024 , amid the ongoing war between Israel and Hamas . Photo / AFP <p> Demonstrators gather with signs during an anti-government protest calling for action to secure the release of Israeli hostages held captive since the October 7 attacks by Palestinian militants in the Gaza Strip , outside the Israeli Defence Ministry headquarters in Tel Aviv on December 21 , 2024 , amid the ongoing war between Israel and Hamas . Photo / AFP <p> Hamas and other groups say a Gaza ceasefire deal with Israel is " closer than ever " . <p> Talks mediated by Qatar , Egypt , and the US have made " significant and important progress " . <p> Last week , indirect negotiations between Israel and Hamas mediated by Qatar , Egypt , and the United States were held in Doha , rekindling hope of an agreement . <p> " The possibility of reaching an agreement for a ceasefire and prisoner exchange deal is closer than ever , provided the enemy stops imposing new conditions , " Hamas , Islamic Jihad and the leftist Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine said in a rare joint statement issued after talks in Cairo on Friday . <p> A Hamas leader told AFP on Saturday talks had made " significant and important progress " in recent days . <p> " Most points related to the ceasefire and prisoner exchange issues have been agreed upon , " he said on condition of anonymity as he was not authorised to speak publicly on the issue . <p> " Some unresolved points remain , but they do not hinder the process . The agreement could be finalised before the end of this year , provided it is not disrupted by Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's new conditions . " <p> He said if an agreement is reached , it will be implemented in phases , ending with " a serious prisoner exchange deal , a permanent ceasefire and a complete withdrawal of Israeli forces from Gaza " . <p> On Wednesday , US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said he was " hopeful " for a deal , but avoided making any predictions as to when it would actually materialise . 
@@119141944 <h> Israeli-American historian describes attacks on Gaza as ' war of annihilation ' <p> A scene of utter devastation in Gaza in the interview clip with Professor Omer Bartov . Image : MEE screenshot APR <p> Asia Pacific Report <p> " It looks like Hiroshima . It looks like Germany at the end of World War Two , " says an Israeli-American historian and professor of holocaust and genocide studies at Brown University about the horrifying reality of Gaza . <p> Professor Omer Bartov , has described Israel 's ongoing war on Gaza as an " act of annihilation " of the Palestinian people , reports Middle East Eye . <p> Dr Bartov said that not only had Israeli forces been moving displaced Palestinians around the Gaza Strip but they had also been strategically bombing mosques , museums , hospitals , and anything that served the health or culture of a people -- in an attempt to cleanse the entire area of Palestinians . <p> Al Jazeera reports that an Israeli drone attack on the Shati refugee camp in northern Gaza targeted a group of people gathered at a phone charging and internet distribution point , killing three people . <p> According to a witness , this was the only point in the refugee camp where people trapped in the area charge their phones and connect to the internet to be in touch with family members who are displaced in the central and southern parts of the Gaza Strip . <p> This was not the first time that the Israeli military has carried out deliberate attacks on such connectivity points . <p> Houthis ballistic missile wounds 14 Meanwhile , a ballistic missile launched by the Houthis from Yemen has broken through Israeli defences above and below the Earth 's atmosphere before slamming into Tel Aviv , reports Israel 's public broadcaster Kan . <p> It said interceptors from the Arrow missile defence system were launched into the upper atmosphere after detecting the missile , but missed the target and failed to stop it before it entered Israeli territory . <p> As captured in numerous videos , two more interceptors were then fired in the lower atmosphere , also failing to shoot down the missile . <p> At least 14 people were wounded after a failed interception of the ballistic missile . <p> This was the third incident of its kind just this week . The Israeli army says it was now investigating why it was not intercepted and why this was such a significant failure . <p> Since the start of the war , the Houthis have launched more than 200 missiles , and more than 170 drones in support of the Palestinians in Gaza . The Houthis have said they would continue the attacks until Israel ends its war in the besieged enclave . 
@@119141946 <p> Associate Education Minister David Seymour . . . there is a growing trend of universities deplatforming speakers and cancelling events where they might be perceived as controversial or offensive . Image : RNZ / Marika Khabazi <p> The changes will also prohibit tertiary institutions from adopting positions on issues that do not relate to their core functions . <p> Associate Education Minister David Seymour said fostering students ' ability to debate ideas is an essential part of universities ' educational mission . <p> " Despite being required by the Education Act and the Bill of Rights Act to uphold academic freedom and freedom of expression , there is a growing trend of universities deplatforming speakers and cancelling events where they might be perceived as controversial or offensive , " he said . <p> " That 's why the National/ACT coalition agreement committed to introduce protections for academic freedom and freedom of speech to ensure universities perform their role as the critic and conscience of society . " <p> Minister for Tertiary Education and Skills Penny Simmonds said freedom of speech was fundamental to the concept of academic freedom . <p> " Universities should promote diversity of opinion and encourage students to explore new ideas and perspectives . This includes enabling them to hear from invited speakers with a range of viewpoints . " <p> It is expected the changes will take effect by the end of next year , after which universities will have six months to develop a statement and get it approved . <p> Aside from the fact that the free speech legislation for universities is a waste of time ( and seemingly ideologically inconsistent with the anti-regulation stance of the government ) , this line from the RNZ article is both hilarious and worrying **26;1090;TOOLONG <p> Te Herenga Waka-Victoria University of Wellington said the important issue of free speech had been a dominant topic throughout the year . <p> It believed a policy it had come up with would align with the intent of the criteria laid out by the government today . <p> However , the Greens are among critics , saying the government 's changes will add fuel to the political fires of disinformation , and put teachers and students in the firing line . <p> Labour says universities should be left to make decisions on free speech themselves . <p> ' A heavy-handed approach'The Tertiary Education Union ( TEU ) said proposed rules could do more harm than good . <p> They have been been welcomed by the Free Speech Union , which said academic freedom was " under threat " , but the TEU said there was no problem to solve . <p> TEU president Sandra Grey said the move seemed to be aimed at ensuring people could spread disinformation on university campuses . <p> " I think one of the major concerns is that you might get universities opening up the space that is for academic and rigorous debate and saying it 's okay we can have climate deniers , we can have people who believe in creationism coming into our campuses and speaking about it as though it were scientific , as though it was rigorously defendable when in fact we know some of these questions . . . have been settled , " she said . <p> Grey said academics who expressed views on campus could expect them to be debated , but that was part and parcel of working at a university and not an attack on their freedom of speech . <p> " There is n't actually a problem . I do think universities , all the staff who work there , the students , understand that they 're covered by all of their requirements for freedom of speech that other citizens are . <p> " So it feels like we 've got a heavy-handed approach from a government that apparently is anti-regulation but is now going to put in place the whole lot of requirements on a community that just does n't need it . " <p> Some topics ' suppressed ' <p> Free Speech Union chief executive Jonathan Ayling . . . some academics are afraid to express their views and there is also a problem with " compelled speech " . Image : VNP/Phil Smith/RNZ News <p> Free Speech Union chief executive Jonathan Ayling said freedom of speech was under threat in universities . <p> " We 've supported academics . . . where they feel that they have been unfairly disadvantaged simply for holding a different opinion to some of their peers . Of course , that is also an addition to the explicit calls for people to be cancelled , to be unemployed , " he said . <p> Ayling said some academics were afraid to express their views and there was also a problem with " compelled speech " . <p> " Forcing certain references on particularly ideological issues . There 's questions around race , gender , international conflicts , covid-19 , these are all questions that we 've found have been suppressed and also there 's the aspect of self-censorship , " he said . <p> " As we have and alongside partners looked into this more and more , it seems that many people in the academy exist in a culture of fear . " <p> University committed to differing viewpointsTe Herenga Waka-Victoria University of Wellington is committed to hearing a range of different viewpoints on its campuses , vice-chancellor Professor Nic Smith says . <p> Free speech had been an important issue during 2024 , and the university had arrived at a policy that covered both freedom of speech and academic freedom . <p> By consulting widely , there was now a shared understanding of " foundational principles " , and its policy would be in place early in the new year . <p> " We believe this policy aligns with the intent of the criteria from the government as we understand them . It recognises the strength of our diverse university community and affirms that this diversity makes us stronger , " Professor Smith said . <p> " At the same time , it acknowledges that within any diverse community , individuals will inevitably encounter ideas they disagree with-sometimes strongly . <p> " Finding value in these disagreements is something universities are very good at : listening to different points of view in the spirit of advancing understanding and learning that can ultimately help us live and work better together . " <p> The university believed in hearing a range of views from staff , rather than adopting a single institutional position . <p> " The only exception to this principle is on matters that directly affect our core functions as a university . " <p> ' Stoking fear and division ' <p> The Green Party 's spokesperson for Tertiary Education , Francisco Hernadez . . . this new policy has nothing to do with free speech . Image : VNP/Phil Smith/RNZ News <p> Green Party 's spokesperson for Tertiary Education , Francisco Hernadez , said the new policy had nothing to do with free speech . <p> " This is about polluting our public discourse for political gain . " <p> Universities played a critical role , providing a platform for informed and reasoned debate . <p> " Our universities should be able to decide who is given a platform on their campuses , not David Seymour . These changes risk turning our universities into hostile environments unsafe for marginalised communities . <p> " Misinformation , disinformation , and rhetoric that inflames hatred towards certain groups has no place in our society , let alone our universities . Freedom of speech is fundamental , but it is not a licence to harm . " <p> Hernandez said universities should be trusted to ensure the balance was struck between academic freedom and a duty of care . <p> " Today 's announcement has also come with a high dose of unintended irony . <p> " David Seymour is speaking out of both sides of his mouth by on the one hand claiming to support freedom of speech , but on the other looking to limit the ability universities have to take stances on issues , like the war in Gaza for example . <p> " This is an Orwellian attempt to limit discourse to the confines of the government 's agenda . This is about stoking fear and division for political gain . " <p> Labour 's Associate Education ( Tertiary ) spokesperson Deborah Russell responded : " One of the core legislated functions of universities in this country is to be a critic and conscience of society . That means continuing to speak truth to power , even if those in power do n't like it . " <p> " Nowhere should be a platform for hate speech . I am certain universities can make these decisions themselves . " <p> ' Expectations clarified ' -- universityThe University of Auckland said in a statement the announcement of planned legislation changes would help " to clarify government expectations in this area " . <p> " The university has a longstanding commitment to maintaining freedom of expression and academic freedom on our campuses , and in recent years has worked closely with the university 's senate and council to review , revise and consult on an updated Freedom of Expression and Academic Freedom Policy . <p> " This is expected to return to senate and council for further discussion in early 2025 and will take into account the proposed new legislation . " <p> The university described the nature of the work as " complex " . <p> " While New Zealand universities have obligations under law to protect freedom of expression , academic freedom and their role as ' critic and conscience of society ' , as the proposed legislation appreciates , this is balanced against other important policies and codes . " <p> This article is republished under a community partnership agreement with RNZ. 
@@119167880 <p> Attacks:There are no safe places for the militarily-dominated population in Gaza , who find themselves subjected to airstrikes and other missile attackson buildings , homes and many essentialfacilities , as well as constant gunfire and invasions by Israeli forces.The Israeli Navy continues to fire missiles , targeting facilities and buildings along the entire Gaza shoreline . <p> Victims:77more people have been killedwithin the past 48 hours , bringing the total number killed in Gaza since 7 Octoberto at least45,206 . Another 174have been wounded , bringing that total to 107,512 . The daily average number of men , women and children killed in Gaza is at least 102and , thatof those injured , is nowmore than244 . <p> Since midnight on 07 October 2023 , Occupation forces have been imposing a complete closure around the whole of the West Bank , **26;644;TOOLONG even permit -- holders ) from entering both the city of Jerusalem as well as Israel , otherwise than for especially -- negotiated exceptions . Permanent military checkpoints impose severe travel restrictions within the Occupied West Bank . <p> Israeli Army attack -- 2 killed -- 5 wounded:Nablus -- during two attacks on the Balata Refugee Camp , one at 10:10 , the other at 01:50 , Occupation forces besieged a house in the city , killing two residents : Qusay Hamed Al-Sarouji and Halima Abu Al-Layl . The Israeli Army also wounded five other residents:Muhannad Tawfiq Abu Al-Aal , Bassam Muhammad Ahmad Saruji , Diaa Suleiman Ibrahim Hashash , Imran Adnan Mahmoud Abu Saada and Muhannad Nael Abu Al-Aal Qatawi . <p> Israeli Army attack:Bethlehem -- 19:10 , the Israeli Army opened fire on , and destroyed , the tyres on a cement pump , while setting up a checkpoint at the eastern entrance to the village of Marah Rabah . <p> Home invasions -- 3 taken prisoner:Nablus -- 23:55 -- 01:50 , Israeli Occupation forces stormed the villages of Rujeib and Kafr Qallil , searching a number of homes and taking prisoner three residents ( a man , his wife and their son ) , in the village of Rujeib . <p> Home invasion in refugee camp : Nablus -- 01:50 -- 05:40 , Israeli forces invaded a home in the Zaghloul neighbourhood of the Balata refugee camp , while damaging and barricading nearby streets . <p> Home invasion : Salfit -- 18:10 -- 22:55 , the Israeli Army raided Deir Istiya and invaded the home of the town 's mayor . <p> Home invasions -- rubber-coated bullets and stun grenades fired : Bethlehem -- evening , the Israeli military , firing rubber-coated bullets and stun grenades , raided the village of Husan and searched a number of homes . <p> Israeli police and settlers ' mosque violation:Nablus -- 15:30 , the Israeli Army took prisoner a man , Hamza Sameh Al-Deiri , when he reported , as ordered , for interrogation at Israeli Military Intelligence . <p> Israeli Army population -- control:Salfit -- Since the morning of 18 December until 18:00 today 19 December , Israeli troops kept closed the western entrance to the village of Marda . <p> Israeli Army population -- control:Salfit -- 21:30 , the Israeli military closed the western entrance to the village of Haris . <p> Occupation settlement development:Ramallah -- 10:20 , Israeli settlers built a new Occupation settlement road in the Wadi al-Shouk area , between the villages of Ras Karkar and Deir Ammar . <p> Occupation settler arson , insults to Islam and terror threats : Salfit -- 04:55 , Occupation settlers invaded the village of Marda and set fire to the Bar al-Walidin Mosque , causing damage . They also sprayed insults against the Islamic religion and terrorised villagers . <p> Attempted Occupation settlement development : Jericho -- 18:35 -- 01:05 , Israeli settlers attempted to establish a new settlement outpost in the al-Ma'arjat district , west of Jericho , but were eventually removed by Occupation forces . <p> Leslie Bravery is a Londoner with vivid World War Two memories of the Nazi blitz on his home town . In 1947/1948 His father explained to him what was happening to the Palestinians thus : " Any ideology or political movement that creates refugees in the process of realising its ambitions must be inhuman and should be opposed and condemned as unacceptable . " What followed confirmed this assessment of the Zionist entity a hundredfold . Now a retired flamenco guitarist , with a lifelong interest in the tragedy of what happened to the Palestinian people , he tries to publicise their plight . Because the daily injustices they suffer barely get a mention in the mainstream news media , Leslie edits/compiles a daily newsletter , In Occupied Palestine , for the Palestine Human Rights Campaign . These days , to preserve his sanity , he enjoys taking part in a drama group whenever possible ! 
@@119239921 <h> The West Bank 's Men Of The CIA - Why Is The PA Killing Palestinians In Jenin ? <p> Following a ten-day siege , the Palestinian Authority began , on December 14 , a violent raid on the Jenin refugee camp in the northern West Bank . <p> The PA security forces used similar tactics as used by the Israeli occupation forces in their routine attacks on the area . <p> The camp , which is a mere half a square kilometer in size , hosts an ever-growing population of 24 thousand refugees , mostly the descendants of Palestinians ethnically cleansed by Zionist militias during the great catastrophe , or Nakba , of 1948 . <p> The raid began with a tight siege , followed by an attack from multiple directions that resulted in the killing of an unarmed youth , Rebhi al-Shalabi , 19 , then a 13-year-old child , Muhammad al-Amer . <p> The PA forces also killed Yazid Ja'ayseh , the commander of the Jenin Brigades , who had evaded Israeli assassination attempts for his leadership role in unifying all Palestinian Resistance fighters under the umbrella of a single group . <p> Advertisement - scroll to continue reading <p> Expectedly , Israel is largely pleased with the PA 's action against the Palestinian Resistance , though it expects more . " The Palestinian Authority has been acting resolutely against the Hamas and Islamic Jihad fighters over the past several weeks , army and Shin Bet sources said , but the Israeli officials expressed the hope that their effectiveness could be enhanced , " Haaretz reported . <p> Indeed , Israel had attempted to subdue Jenin 80 times in the last year alone , killing more than 220 people , Al Jazeera reported , citing Palestinian Ministry of Health sources . <p> By attacking Jenin , the PA is helping the Israeli army in more than one way : it is killing and detaining anti-Israeli occupation Resistance fighters , consuming the energy and resources of the Resistance , allowing Israel to spare thousands of soldiers so that they may carry on with the genocide in Gaza , and more . <p> For many , especially supporters of Palestine around the world , the PA 's action is confusing , to say the least . Those surprised by the anti-Resistance policies of Mahmoud Abbas and his Authority , however , are driven by the erroneous assumption that the PA is a legitimate representative of the Palestinian people , and that it behaves in ways consistent with the collective aspirations of all Palestinians . <p> Nothing could be further from the truth . For many years , the PA has ceased playing any role that deviates from the interests of a small clique of pro-US and pro-Israeli wealthy elite who have enriched themselves , while millions of Palestinians continue to suffer an Israeli genocide in Gaza , and a violent system of apartheid and military occupation in the West Bank and East Jerusalem . <p> The most telling and recent example is that , a short distance away from Jenin , illegal and violent Israeli Jewish settlers have burned the Bir Al-Walidin Mosque in the town of Murda , near Salfit - less than 70 kilometers from Jenin . Neither in this case , nor in any of the hundreds of settlers ' pogroms carried out against Palestinians in the West Bank in the last year - or before - did the PA security carry out any action to confront the armed Jewish militias , nor , of course , the occupation army . <p> But how did the PA turn from a supposed national project - at least in theory - to another branch of the Israeli occupation ? <p> It could be argued that the PA was structured since its establishment in 1994 as a body whose existence catered to benefit the Israeli occupation . There is much evidence that substantiates this claim , including the arrests , torture and killing of dissenting Palestinians soon after the creation of the PA . <p> The CIA became directly involved in supporting the PA from the very start , expanding its role as early as 1996 following a series of Palestinian retaliatory attacks on Israeli targets in major cities . It was then that CIA director George Tenet became an important player in shaping the policies of the PA security forces , preparing it for massive crackdowns on Palestinian Resistance groups . <p> This involvement was a direct condition for US financial support under the Bill Clinton Administration - the kind of support that sowed the seeds of the Fatah-Hamas conflict , which reached its zenith in the summer of 2007 . <p> The involvement of the US - and other armed forces of US client regimes in the region - became even more apparent under the leadership of US Lt. Gen. Keith Dayton , who helped train , prepare and equip the Palestinian Authority Security Forces ( NSF ) , producing several battalions of young recruits ( between 20 and 22 years old ) to fight fellow Palestinians in the name of restoring law and order . <p> That supposed restoration of the law began in earnest as early as 2005 and continues until this day . Interestingly , this is the same language that the PA is currently using to justify its war on the Jenin refugee camp . <p> A spokesman for the PA security forces , Anwar Rajab recently told Al Jazeera that the objective of the raid on Jenin is to " pursue criminals " and lawbreakers , and to " prevent the camp from becoming a battleground like Gaza . " <p> Equating Resistance fighters with criminals and linking that supposed criminality to the Gaza Resistance is the typical PA discourse on resistance , a discourse that took the US and Israel years to craft and perfect - making the PA arguably the greatest achievement of Israel and the US in recent decades . <p> This behavior and language can be traced to a famous statement by General Dayton himself , who in a 2009 speech celebrated the US 's greatest creation in Palestine : <p> " And what we have created - and I say this in humility - what we have created are new men ... upon the return of these new men of Palestine , they have shown motivation , discipline and professionalism , and they have made such a difference . " <p> Indeed , the ' new men of Palestine ' are making all the difference required by the US and Israel : they are fighting the very Palestinian Resistance that is defending Jenin against the Israeli onslaught , Nablus against the pogroms of armed settlers and Gaza against genocide . <p> None of these ' new men ' - whose numbers are counted in the tens of thousands - have lifted a finger to help their brethren as they continue to starve to death in the Gaza Strip , tortured and raped en masse , burned alive in Jabaliya and Khan Yunis , and yet continue to fight and die in their thousands - alone . <p> To say that the PA has betrayed Palestinians , however , is an inaccurate statement . The PA was never set up , financed and armed by the US and Israel as a force of liberation , but as an obstacle to Palestinian freedom . We are witnessing the final proof of this claim . It is taking place in Jenin now ; in fact , throughout the West Bank . <p> Of course , the PA will not be able to crush the Palestinian Resistance , which the supposedly mighty Israeli army has failed to subdue over the course of years . But the question remains : how long will the PA be allowed to serve the role of the enforcers of the Israeli occupation and the protector of settlers , while still promoting itself as the guardian of Palestinian rights , freedom and statehood ? <p> - Dr. Ramzy Baroud is a journalist , author and the Editor of The Palestine Chronicle . He is the author of six books . His latest book , co-edited with Ilan Papp ? , is ' Our Vision for Liberation : Engaged Palestinian Leaders and Intellectuals Speak Out ' . His other books include ' My Father was a Freedom Fighter ' and ' The Last Earth ' . Baroud is a Non-resident Senior Research Fellow at the Center for Islam and Global Affairs ( CIGA ) . His website is www.ramzybaroud.net <h> Using Scoop for work ? <p> Scoop is free for personal use , but you 'll need a licence for work use . This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop . Join today with plans starting from less than $3 per week , plus gain access to exclusive Pro features . 
@@119240063 <h> Anglican Church leaders say they support Te Tiriti in Christmas message <p> The leaders of the Anglican Church in New Zealand have told their church they support Te Tiriti because it offers hope for the future , a Catholic bishop has reflected that 2024 was a hard year for many , and a Presbyterian reverend says Christmas is a time for thinking about ' home ' . <p> In a Christmas message , the three archbishops who lead the Anglicans in Aotearoa New Zealand and Polynesia say people find hope in standing up for justice and what is right . <p> Archbishops Don Tamihere , Justin Duckworth and Sione Ulu'ilakepa say there is a " lethal absence of hope " leading to war , genocide , famine and suffering around the world . <p> At Christmas , Christians celebrate the birth of Jesus , who they believe is the Son of God . <p> Around a third of New Zealanders said they were Christian in the latest census in 2023 , with Catholic , Anglican and Presbyterian the largest denominations . <p> The Archbishops say the birth of Jesus , like any child , reminds people to think of the future . <p> " We find hope when we love our neighbour , to stand up for justice and for what is right , and to remind each other that tomorrow is worth fighting for , " they said . <p> " We hikoi to Parliament because we hope . We stand up for Te Tiriti and all that it promises to be , because we hope . We give to our neighbours in their time of need because we hope . <p> " We speak out against war crimes in the Ukraine , in Gaza , and elsewhere in the world , because we hope . We hope for peace , and for a world where war will be waged no more . " <p> They say they hope for a world where culture and diversity are honoured , human lives are sacred and minorities are protected and uplifted . <p> Auckland Catholic bishop Stephen Lowe also said 2024 had been a hard year for people . <p> In a message posted to YouTube he said people here and overseas had seen war and conflict , growing problems with climate change , and increases in poverty . <p> " More and more people seem lost , not knowing where to turn , it almost seems as if hope has been destroyed . " <p> But he said people had hope through the message of God and Jesus . <p> Bishop Lowe said he had been given a cross by a young man in Bethlehem who had come to New Zealand as a Palestinian refugee aged eight or nine , and had returned to run the family 's olive wood factory . The two had prayed for peace in the " Holy Land " . <p> " Maybe that should be our prayer as well - for peace as well , for peace in the Holy Land , peace in our world , peace in our nation and peace in our hearts . " <p> The Moderator of the Presbyterian church , the Right Rev Rose Luxford , said Christmas felt like a time for people to " come home " and , for Christians , to reflect on God . In her message to the Church , she said it was a time of renewal and gratitude . <p> " At this time , we are also very aware that there are many who have no physical or spiritual home to go to . Those who are not welcome at home , where there is ' no room in the inn ' . <p> " We hold them in our prayers and also seek practical ways in which we can help . " 
@@119240195 <p> Remember- It 's not Christmas until you have a huge argument defending Fairytale of New York , Love Actually and eating anything that casts a shadow . <p> Today Joseph and Mary would have to pass through 15 checkpoints to get from Nazareth to Bethlehem , but seeing as most of Gaza has been flattened by a war crime level response by Israel , plus the ethnic cleansing , you could make it a round trip within 30 minutes now . <p> Offensive words in the Christmas song to be removed or altered for Radio 1 , but remain unchanged on Radio 2 <p> For many Christmas is a Season of Good Will , family , friends , whanau . A time to sit in each others company and celebrate the shared harvest of the year . It is joyful , it is welcoming , it is us at our best as a species . <p> For some however , it is a season of estrangement , a bitter cold loneliness whose each passing hour gnaws relentlessly into bone marrow that never heals . A 24 hour carnival of wounds made mockingly humiliating by the the cheer of the vast majority . <p> For those some , Christmas is a struggle of bruises with gift wrapped injury . For them , the bitter sweet working class lament ' Fairytale of New York ' sums up all the wasted hope of Christmas and allows pain to sit at the table in an exhausted detente with our more damaged angels . <p> Micro aggression policing Millennials decry this song for its hate speech language of ' Slut ' and ' Faggot ' and demand with all the nuance of Mao 's cultural revolution that this relic of pre-woke be burned at the virtual signalling stake . <p> When those some sing the insults with such ferocious gusto , it 's not aimed at homosexuals or women , those are insults being screamed at themselves once the distance between what was hoped and what was delivered is measured from heaven to the gutter . <p> Those some will not stop singing this pain , because this pain is the only guest at the table . <p> Finally , a NZ poem for Christmas . <p> A Christmas Wish <p> ' Not mistletoe and holly <p> To ward off melancholy <p> Carols in the chapel <p> Plum pudding and crabapple . <p> But to camp for a week <p> By a mountain creek <p> With fresh taken trout <p> And tinned pears to eat <p> With tea boiled in a billy <p> And the morepork in the gully . ' <p> James K Baxter <p> A sardonic and depressed festival of late stage capitalism consumerism on a burning planet to you all ! <p> A toast to your good health and peace on earth and good will to all . <p> Season 's Greetings Comrades ! <p> TDB 2024 <p> Increasingly having independent opinion in a mainstream media environment which mostly echo one another has become more important than ever , so if you value having an independent voice -- please donate here . <h> 6 COMMENTS <p> Hoping TDB readers have a great Christmas and appreciate that New Zealand is a great wee country and it 's now on the up and up . 2024 has been a good year and I have no doubt 2025 will be even better . CHEERS EVERYONE ..... 
@@119240198 <p> Attacks:There are no safe places for the militarily-dominated population in Gaza , who find themselves subjected to airstrikes and other missile attackson buildings , homes and many essentialfacilities , as well as constant gunfire and invasions by Israeli forces.The Israeli Navy continues to fire missiles , targeting facilities and buildings along the entire Gaza shoreline . <p> Victims:58more people have been killedwithin the past 48 hours , bringing the total number killed in Gaza since 7 Octoberto at least45,317 . Another 86have been wounded , bringing that total to 107,713 . The daily average number of men , women and children killed in Gaza is at least 102and , thatof those injured , is nowmore than243 . <h> UN relief chief calls on international community to " break the cycle of violence " in Gaza <p> I have spent the past week in the Middle East , meeting UN colleagues , partners , authorities and communities in Damascus , Homs , Aleppo , Idlib , Ankara , Beirut , Nabatieh and Amman . As I conclude this trip -- my first to the region as Humanitarian Chief -- I have also been meeting our humanitarian teams in the Occupied Palestinian Territory . <p> In January 2024 , the International Court of Justice issued the first set of provisional orders , in the case on the application of the Genocide Convention in the Gaza Strip . Less than a year later , the sustained intensity of violence means that there is nowhere that civilians in Gaza are safe . Schools , hospitals and civilian infrastructure have been reduced to rubble . <p> North Gaza has been under a near-total siege for more than two months , raising the spectre of famine . South Gaza is extremely overcrowded , creating horrific living conditions and even greater humanitarian needs as winter sets in . Across Gaza , Israeli airstrikes on densely populated areas continue , including on areas where Israeli forces have ordered people to move , causing destruction , displacement and death . <p> We deal with tough places to deliver humanitarian support . But Gaza is currently the most dangerous , in a year when more humanitarians have been killed than any on record . As a result , despite the massive humanitarian needs , it has become almost impossible to deliver even a fraction of the aid that is so urgently required . The Israeli authorities continue to deny us meaningful access -- over 100 requests to access North Gaza denied since 6 October . We are also now seeing the breakdown of law and order and the systematic armed looting of our supplies by local gangs . <p> Meanwhile , in the West Bank the situation continues to deteriorate , and the death toll is the highest we have recorded . In the past year , Israeli military operations resulted in the destruction of essential infrastructure such as roads and water networks , especially in refugee camps from which families have been displaced . Rising settler violence and home demolitions have resulted in displacement and growing needs . Movement restrictions are impeding people 's livelihoods and access to essential services -- especially healthcare . <p> In the face of these challenges , the UN and humanitarian community continue to try to stay and deliver , against mounting odds . We help survivors , and continue to seek practical humanitarian solutions . I call on the international community to defend international humanitarian law , demand protection of all civilians , insist that Hamas release all hostages , defend UNRWA 's vital work , and break the cycle of violence . <p> I pay tribute to the humanitarians working to save the lives of civilians in these conditions . <p> Since midnight on 07 October 2023 , Occupation forces have been imposing a complete closure around the whole of the West Bank , **26;1412;TOOLONG even permit -- holders ) from entering both the city of Jerusalem as well as Israel , otherwise than for especially -- negotiated exceptions . Permanent military checkpoints impose severe travel restrictions within the Occupied West Bank . <p> Israeli Army attack -- agricultural sabotage : Jerusalem -- 23:50 -- 02:00 , Israeli Occupation forces , firing live ammunition and stun grenades , stormed the Qalandiya refugee camp as well as the town of Kafr Aqab , invading homes and wounding three residents , one of whom is named Ahmed Muhammad Mahmoud Washah . <p> Home invasions and demolition : Jerusalem -- Israeli forces demolished two homes in the village of Beit Safafa , to make way for building a road . <p> Home invasion and forced personal demolition : Jerusalem -- the Israeli Occupation forced a resident , Jalal Al-Atrash , to destroy his home in Sur Baher -- or otherwise be forced to pay an extortionate sum to the Israeli Occupation demolition squads , who would be sent in to do it . <p> Home invasions:Nablus -- 17:30 -- 06:05 , Israeli forces raided the village of Jalloud and invaded two houses . <p> Home invasion and surveillance : Salfit -- 09:55 -- 12:15 , the Israeli Army raided Salfit , invading a home and checking its surveillance -- camera recordings . <p> Occupation settler land-grab:Tubas -- 17:40 , Israeli Occupation settlers began establishing a settlement outpostin the Qa'oun area , west of the North Jordan Valley Bardala village , bringing in a water tanker , fodder , bales of straw and around 30 -- head of cattle . <p> Leslie Bravery is a Londoner with vivid World War Two memories of the Nazi blitz on his home town . In 1947/1948 His father explained to him what was happening to the Palestinians thus : " Any ideology or political movement that creates refugees in the process of realising its ambitions must be inhuman and should be opposed and condemned as unacceptable . " What followed confirmed this assessment of the Zionist entity a hundredfold . Now a retired flamenco guitarist , with a lifelong interest in the tragedy of what happened to the Palestinian people , he tries to publicise their plight . Because the daily injustices they suffer barely get a mention in the mainstream news media , Leslie edits/compiles a daily newsletter , In Occupied Palestine , for the Palestine Human Rights Campaign . These days , to preserve his sanity , he enjoys taking part in a drama group whenever possible ! 
@@119240199 <p> Attacks:There are no safe places for the militarily-dominated population in Gaza , who find themselves subjected to airstrikes and other missile attackson buildings , homes and many essentialfacilities , as well as constant gunfire and invasions by Israeli forces.The Israeli Navy continues to fire missiles , targeting facilities and buildings along the entire Gaza shoreline . <p> Victims:32more people have been killedwithin the past 48 hours , bringing the total number killed in Gaza since 7 Octoberto at least45,259 . Another 54have been wounded , bringing that total to 107,627 . The daily average number of men , women and children killed in Gaza is at least 102and , thatof those injured , is nowmore than244 . <p> The Pope 's statement followed a report from Gaza 's Civil Defence rescue agency that an Israeli airstrike in the northern part of the territory on Friday killed ten members of a family , including seven children . " Yesterday they did not allow the Patriarch ( of Jerusalem ) into Gaza as promised . Yesterday children were bombed . This is cruelty , this is not war , " he told members of the Holy See 's government , adding , " I want to say it because it touches my heart . " Since the escalation of the Israeli war on Gaza on 7 October 2023 , the Pope has consistently called for " peace " . In recent weeks , however , he has adopted a firmer stance against the Israeli offensive . At the end of November , the Pope stated that " the invader 's arrogance . . . prevails over dialogue " in " Palestine , " The Holy See , which recognised the State of Palestine in 2013 , maintains diplomatic relations with it and continues to advocate for a two-state solution . <p> The director of Kamal Adwan Hospital , encircled by Israeli drones and tanks , has pleaded with the international community to intervene to protect the northern Gaza hospital as Israel ordered patients as well as hospital staff to evacuate . The hospital remains one of the few still operational in the area , where only a handful of doctors remain to treat patients amid a severe shortage or complete depletion of essential medical supplies . " We are now facing direct bombing of the Intensive Care Unit again , " Dr Hussam Abu Safia said in a video statement on Saturday night , calling on the international community to protect the hospital and its 66 remaining patients , as well as medical staff . " The nursery , maternity , and all departments of the hospital are being targeted by the occupation forces with all types of weapons , including sniper fire , tank shells , and quadcopters , " he added . <p> " For more than an hour now , shells are raining down on us from every corner , mile and direction . " Al Jazeera 's Hani Mahmoud , reporting from nearby Deir el-Balah , said : " What we are seeing now is a deliberate attack on the health facility . " " The Israeli military has ordered evacuations from the hospital , but they have also created an intimidating environment that makes people feel it 's unsafe to leave . " The relentless Israeli attacks on medical facilities , including Kamal Adwan , drew a response from World Health Organization ( WHO ) Chief , Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus , who called it " deeply worrisome " . He urged for an " immediate ceasefire " in the area that has been under siege for more than 70 days . <p> Electricity was completely cut off at Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza on Sunday after Israeli drone strikes onits power generators and fuel tanks , Anadolu reports . According to witnesses , Israeli drones struck power generators and fuel tanks at the hospital in the town of Beit Lahia , leaving it entirely without power . Marwan Al-Hams , the Director of Field Hospitals in Gaza 's Health Ministry , described the situation at the hospital as " dire " , saying that communication with medical staff has been cut off . On Saturday , the hospital 's director , Hussam Abu Safiya , said that the medical facility was facing " unprecedented " Israeli shelling , causing extensive damage . <p> Since midnight on 07 October 2023 , Occupation forces have been imposing a complete closure around the whole of the West Bank , **26;1440;TOOLONG even permit -- holders ) from entering both the city of Jerusalem as well as Israel , otherwise than for especially -- negotiated exceptions . Permanent military checkpoints impose severe travel restrictions within the Occupied West Bank . <p> Israeli settlers terrorism -- population -- control and agricultural sabotage:Ramallah -- 10:15-12:00 , Israeli settlers , opening indiscriminate fire , attacked a house in Burqa village and terrorised a number of Palestinian farmers in the south of the village to force them to leave the area . <p> Israeli settlers'terror attack : Jericho -- 14:30 -- 16:20 , Israeli Occupation settlers , opening random fire , stormed the Sateeh area as well as the village of Ein al-Dyouk al-Tahta . One of the settlers invaded an agricultural greenhouse in the village of al-Nu'ayma and terrorised a man there:Hussein Musa Malihat . <p> Child killed : Bethlehem -- seven-year -- oldMuhammad Yasser Ali Rashaida , accompanying his father as he was herding sheep in the Wadi al-Karas , was killedwhen an object left behind on pastoral land by the Israeli Armyexploded . <p> Home invasion and forced personal demolition:Jerusalem -- the Israeli Occupation forced a resident , Hani Shakirat , to destroy his home in the Jabal al-Mukabir neighbourhood -- or otherwise be forced to pay an extortionate sum to the Israeli Occupation demolition squads , who would be sent in to do it . <p> Home invasion and forced personal demolition:Jerusalem -- the Israeli Occupation forced a resident , Mahmoud Hashem Aqil , to destroy his home in the Silwan neighbourhood -- or otherwise be forced to pay an extortionate sum to the Israeli Occupation demolition squads , who would be sent in to do it . <p> Home invasions:Salfit -- 01:00 -- 03:45 , the Israeli Army raided Haris village and searched a number of houses . <p> Home invasions and vandalism by settlers:Hebron -- 10:10 , Occupation settlers invaded homes in the village of Susiya , damaging their contents . <p> Leslie Bravery is a Londoner with vivid World War Two memories of the Nazi blitz on his home town . In 1947/1948 His father explained to him what was happening to the Palestinians thus : " Any ideology or political movement that creates refugees in the process of realising its ambitions must be inhuman and should be opposed and condemned as unacceptable . " What followed confirmed this assessment of the Zionist entity a hundredfold . Now a retired flamenco guitarist , with a lifelong interest in the tragedy of what happened to the Palestinian people , he tries to publicise their plight . Because the daily injustices they suffer barely get a mention in the mainstream news media , Leslie edits/compiles a daily newsletter , In Occupied Palestine , for the Palestine Human Rights Campaign . These days , to preserve his sanity , he enjoys taking part in a drama group whenever possible ! 
@@119240209 <p> At the end of December , a joint UN convoy of nine trucks successfully reached people in Beit Hanoun , northern Gaza , who had been cut off from aid for over 75 days . <p> Images taken by UN staffers showed desperate residents rushing out from shelters to retrieve the bottled water , flour and canned food . <p> WFP has put in 101 requests to deliver food to areas in Gaza 's north governorate since the offensive began on 6 October : only three have been approved , including the 20 December convoy . <p> ' Raising the spectre of famine ' <p> In a statement released on Monday , UN Emergency Relief Coordinator Tom Fletcher warned that the " near-total siege " of the northern region is " raising the spectre of famine " , whilst conditions in extremely overcrowded South Gaza are creating " horrific living conditions and even greater humanitarian needs " as winter sets in . <p> - Sponsor Promotion - <p> Mr. Fletcher , who spent the last week visiting UN staff , partners and communities in several Middle Eastern countries , described Gaza as the most dangerous place in the world to deliver aid , in a year when more humanitarians have been killed than any on record . <p> An added concern is the breakdown of law and order , and the looting of UN supplies by armed gangs . <p> The military operation by Israeli forces in northern Gaza is ongoing . As well as severely limiting the delivery of food aid , the tightening siege has left up to 15,000 people without access to food , water , electricity or healthcare . <p> Mass casualty incidents continue to afflict the Strip . <p> According to media reports , at least 20 people were killed by Israeli airstrikes overnight , including in al-Mawasi , which is designated as a humanitarian zone , and the al-Nuseirat refugee camp in central Gaza . 
@@119273136 <p> Scientists from the US Geological Survey would later make some alarming comparisons - the tsunami released energy equivalent to 23,000 atomic bombs . <p> It was 7.59am when the quake hit . Residents in coastal communities witnessed waters recede -- an unusual sight that left fish stranded on reefs and led some to investigate the newly created shoreline . Soon after the water disappeared , huge waves returned inundating homes and businesses . In Banda Aceh , a 2600-tonne barge , the Apung 1 , was swept 5km inland . The vessel remains there today as a monument to what happened . <p> Snary was working for World Vision when he was deployed to the Andaman and Nicobar Islands , which are close to Banda Aceh and the quake 's epicentre . <p> Volunteers work alongside soldiers to clear bodies after the Boxing Day tsunami in Banda Aceh in 2004 . <p> He spent 20 years with the charity and travelled all over the world amid war , suffering and natural disasters . He was country director in Jerusalem , West Bank and Gaza when children were killed by Israeli airstrikes in 2014 ; he spent time in Mongolia amid a deadly flu outbreak in 2009 and worked in Afghanistan , South Sudan and all over the Pacific . <p> But his time on the ground in the aftermath of the Boxing Day tsunami was particularly hard to fathom . <p> For Snary , the way the water transformed the landscape , and how it suddenly upended the lives of so many was inconceivable . It was the worst tsunami disaster in history , killing at least a quarter of a million people . Although Snary reckons the true death toll will never be known . <p> " The tsunami was on a scale that was off the charts . I saw areas where bodies were stacked up like firewood . " <p> " We were in the centre square of the village , and it was just total devastation . There was nothing that survived . " <p> Debris , including wood , concrete and household appliances , was strewn across the land resembling a " village rubbish dump , " Snary said . Fishing boats were on rooftops . <p> Wreckage left behind in Banda Aceh following the devastating Boxing Day tsunami 20 years ago . <p> And in the ruins , he met people who had lost everything . <p> One man 's story -- a Nicobari local who 'd been evacuated to an emergency camp in the neighbouring Andaman Islands -- remains etched in his mind . <p> His parents , wife and one of his daughters were killed when the tsunami hit . The man , who previously owned a shop , had his surviving daughter and his lungi - a colourful skirt similar to a sarong . That was all . <p> " One day you 've got this complete family unit , and a successful business , and then the next day it 's all gone . I remember this guy said to me , ' Alex , I 've lost everything except for my one girl . And I ca n't afford to lose my faith . That 's the one thing I have remaining in my life . ' " <h> The power of the human spirit <p> Amid scenes of such impossible loss and misery , Snary learned a lot about the strength of humanity . <p> Normality did n't resume immediately . But over the weeks after the tsunami hit , he witnessed small shelters going up , rudimentary roadside stalls started selling sticks of chewing gum , and there was a renewed sense of camaraderie . <p> He puts this down in part to the generosity of those who donated to relief efforts and people 's religious beliefs but also to the sheer grit of humankind and what he thinks is our innate ability not to surrender . <p> " There is something within us that refuses to give up no matter how hard it gets . " <p> After days of mental health support from Snary and his team , children who were too scared to look at the water when he arrived , eventually started running , laughing and playing without inhibition . <p> Workers construct new buildings in Phang Nga District in Thailand 's south , after the region was hit hard in 2004 . Photo/ Brett Phibbs <p> " So we saw the beginnings of recovery , of course , that 's helped a lot by the kind of interventions that we can bring . " <p> In New Zealand alone , more than $26m was raised by various humanitarian groups to help communities in need , which Snary said was critical . <p> " This massive outpouring of generosity across nations like New Zealand enabled us to get in quickly and mitigate some of the worst impact and to literally rebuild when there was nothing left . It 's the only time I 've ever worked where money was not the restricting factor . " <p> Michael Morrah is a senior investigative reporter/team leader at the Herald . He won the best coverage of a major news event at the 2024 Voyager NZ Media Awards and has twice been named reporter of the year . He has been a broadcast journalist for 20 years and joined the Herald'svideo team in July 2024. 
@@119278282 <h> Gaza Christians pray for end of Israeli war 's ' death and destruction ' <p> Palestine 's Reverend Dr Munther Isaac . . . " sadly , ' never again ' has become yet again for the weaponisation of the Bible and the silence and complicity of the Western church . " Image : Munther Isaac screenshot APR <p> Asia Pacific Report <p> Silent Night is a well-known Christmas carol that tells of a peaceful and silent night in Bethlehem , referring to the first Christmas more than 2000 years ago . <p> Gone were the sparkling lights , the festive decorations and the towering Christmas tree that had graced Gaza City for decades . <p> The Square of the Unknown Soldier , once alive with the spirit of the season , now lies in ruins , reduced to rubble by relentless Israeli air strikes . <p> Amid the rubble , the faithful sought solace even as fighting continued to rage across the Strip . <p> " This Christmas carries the stench of death and destruction , " said George al-Sayegh , who for weeks has sought refuge in the 12th century Greek Orthodox Church of St Porphyrius . <p> " There is no joy , no festive spirit . We do n't even know who will survive until the next holiday . " <p> ' Christ still in the rubble ' On Friday , the Palestinian theologian and pastor Reverend Munther Isaac delivered a Christmas sermon at the Evangelical Lutheran Christmas Church in Bethlehem , in occupied West Bank -- the birthplace of Jesus -- called " Christ Is Still in the Rubble . " He said in this excerpt from Democracy Now ! : <p> ' " Never again " should mean never again to all peoples . " Never again " has become " yet again " -- yet again to supremacy , yet again to racism and yet again to genocide . <p> ' And sadly , " never again " has become yet again for the weaponisation of the Bible and the silence and complicity of the Western church , yet again for the church siding with power , the church siding with the empire . <p> ' And so , today , after all this , of total destruction , annihilation -- and Gaza is erased , unfortunately -- millions have become refugees and homeless , tens of thousands killed . <p> ' And why is anyone still debating whether this is a genocide or not ? I ca n't believe it . Yet , even when church leaders simply call for investigating whether this is a genocide , he is called out , and it becomes breaking news . <p> ' Friends , the evidence is clear . Truth stands plain for all to see . The question is not whether this is a genocide . This is not the debate . The real question is : Why is n't the world and the church calling it a genocide ? <p> ' It says a lot when you deny and ignore and refrain from using the language of genocide . This says a lot . It actually reveals hypocrisy , for you lectured us for years on international laws and human rights . It reveals your hypocrisy . <p> ' It says a lot on how you look at us Palestinians . It says a lot about your moral and ethical standards . It says everything about who you are when you turn away from the truth , when you refuse to name oppression for what it is . Or could it be that they 're not calling it a genocide ? <p> ' Could it be that if reality was acknowledged for what it is , that it is a genocide , then that it would be an acknowledgment of your guilt ? For this war was a war that so many defended as " just " and " self-defense . " And now you ca n't even bring yourself to apologise . . . <p> ' We said last year Christ is in the rubble . And this year we say Christ is still in the rubble . The rubble is his manger . Jesus finds his place with the marginalised , the tormented , the oppressed and the displaced . <p> ' We look at the holy family and see them in every displaced and homeless family living in despair . In the Christmas story , even God walks with them and calls them his own . ' <p> Story of Jesus one of oppression " Pastor Isaac joined journalist host Chris Hedges on a special episode of The Chris Hedges Report to revisit the story of Christmas and how it relates to Palestine then and now . <p> He wasted no time in reminding people that despite the usual jolly associations with Christmas , the story of Jesus Christ was one of oppression , one that involved the struggle of refugees , the rule of a tyrant , the witnessing of a massacre and the levying of taxation . <p> " To us here in Palestine , " Reverend Isaac said the terms linked to the struggle " actually make the story , as we read it in the Gospel , very much a Palestinian story , because we can identify with the characters . " <p> Journalist Hedges and Reverend Isaac invoked the story of the Good Samaritan to point out the deliberate blindness the world has bestowed upon the Palestinians , particularly in Gaza in the midst of the ongoing genocide . <p> The conclusion of the Good Samaritan story is that there is no us and them , Reverend Isaac told Hedges . <p> " Everybody is a neighbour . You do n't draw a circle and determine who 's in and who 's out . " <p> It was clear , Reverend Isaac pointed out , " the Palestinians are outside of the circle . We 've been saying it -- human rights do n't apply on us , not even compassion . " <p> Pope calls for ' silence of arms ' in GazaIn his Christmas " Urbi et Orbi " ( to the city and world ) address yesterday at the Vatican , Pope Francis denounced the " extremely grave " humanitarian situation in Gaza while appealing for the release of captives and a ceasefire in the war-torn coastal enclave . <p> He also appealed for peace in Ukraine and Sudan , reports Al Jazeera . <p> " I think of the Christian communities in Israel and Palestine , particularly in Gaza , where the humanitarian situation is extremely grave . May there be a ceasefire , may the hostages be released and aid be given to the people worn out by hunger and by war , " he said . <p> Israel has killed at least 45,361 Palestinians in its war on Gaza and wounded 107,803 since October 7 , 2023 , the day a Hamas-led operation was launched into Israel during which 1,139 people were killed and about 200 were taken captive . <p> The nativity scene on Christmas Eve in New Zealand 's St Patrick 's Cathedral in Auckland last night . . . no mention of Bethlehem 's oppression by Israel and muted celebrations , or the Gaza genocide in the sermon . Image : Asia Pacific Report 
@@119302841 <p> Attacks:There are no safe places for the militarily-dominated population in Gaza , who find themselves subjected to airstrikes and other missile attackson buildings , homes and many essentialfacilities , as well as constant gunfire and invasions by Israeli forces.The Israeli Navy continues to fire missiles , targeting facilities and buildings along the entire Gaza shoreline . <p> Victims:23more people have been killedwithin the past 48 hours , bringing the total number killed in Gaza since 7 October2023 to at least45,361 . Another 39have been wounded , bringing that total to 107,803 . The daily average number of men , women and children killed in Gaza is at least 102and , thatof those injured , is nowmore than242 . <p> Since midnight on 07 October 2023 , Occupation forces have been imposing a complete closure around the whole of the West Bank , **26;676;TOOLONG even permit -- holders ) from entering both the city of Jerusalem as well as Israel , otherwise than for especially -- negotiated exceptions . Permanent military checkpoints impose severe travel restrictions within the Occupied West Bank . <p> Of the nine residents taken prisoner , one was used as a human shield . Three homes were set on fire , using explosives , and a warehouse in the Tulkarem refugee camp was also set on fire . Threeroads were bulldozed . <p> Israeli Army attack -- youngster shot and wounded for refusing to undress : Hebron -- 19:30 , Israeli troops shot and wounded a 16-year-old youth , Naseem Ishaq Izzat Jaber , when he refused to take off his clothes at an Old City military checkpoint . The youngster was subsequently hospitalised. 
@@119309408 <p> The burnt out vehicle with the clearly visible " Press " label in which an Israeli strike killed the five sleeping journalists in Gaza . Image : @SuppressedNws screenshot APR <p> Pacific Media Watch <p> Five Palestinian journalists have been killed in a new Israeli strike near a hospital in central Gaza after four reporters were killed last week , reports Al Jazeera citing authorities and media in the besieged enclave . <p> The journalists from the Al-Quds Today channel were covering events near al-Awda Hospital , located in the Nuseirat refugee camp , when their broadcasting van was hit by an Israeli air strike . <p> Footage from the scene circulating on social media shows a vehicle engulfed in flames . <p> It claimed it had carried out a " targeted " attack against a vehicle carrying members of Islamic Jihad and that it would continue to take action against " terrorist organisations " in Gaza . <p> ? ? BREAKING : 5 journalists were just killed by Israel . <p> An Israeli strike targeted the PRESS vehicle belonging to " Al-Quds Today " channel while the journalists were sleeping inside the vehicle in front of Al-Awda Hospital in Al-Nuseirat , Central Gaza . Their bodies were charred .... **26;1230;TOOLONG <p> " Prior to the attack , many steps were taken to reduce the chance of harming civilians , including the use of precision weapons , aerial observations , and additional intelligence information , " the military said in a post on X. <p> The New York-based Committee to Protect Journalists ( CPJ ) earlier this month condemned Israel 's killing of four Palestinian journalists in the space of a week , calling on the international community to hold the country accountable for its attacks against the media . <p> " On December 14 and 15 , the Israeli army murdered three media professionals in northern Gaza and the central Gaza Strip , " RSF said in a statement . <p> " Some of the few remaining reporters in the northern region , subjected to a ground invasion by Israeli forces , were recently forced to evacuate their homes . " <p> RSF named three of the killed journalists as Al-Jazeera cameraman Ahmad al-Louh , a 39-year-old media worker who was was filming a report on the Palestinian Civil Defence in the Nuseirat camp when he was killed on December 15 by an air strike ; Mohammed Balousha , a reporter for the Emirati channel Al-Mashhad who was mortally wounded by a targeted drone strike while reporting in the Sheikh Radwan district in northern Gaza , and correspondent Mohammed Jaber al-Qarinawi , 30 , who was killed along with his wife and their three children by an isolated air strike -- " a sign that his home had probably been targeted " . <p> ' Stark reminder ' on media attacks , says RSF RSF 's director of campaigns Rebecca Vincent said : " These latest killings are a stark reminder of the ongoing assault by Israeli forces against media professionals in northern Gaza , where the handful of journalists remaining are now at risk of disappearing altogether . <p> " In parallel to ongoing attacks on media in central Gaza where displaced persons are now seeking refuge , this is a clear continuation of the Israeli authorities ' attempts to control the narrative on its war through any means possible . <p> " We repeat in the strongest possible terms that targeting journalists is a war crime , and these atrocious attacks must stop . It is time for concrete action by other states -- in particular Israel 's allies -- to urge the Israeli government to immediately comply with international law . " <p> Ninety-six percent of Gaza 's journalists have been forcibly evacuated from their homes , and 92 percent have lost essential reporting equipment , according to data from RSF 's local NGO partner , Arab Reporters for Investigative Journalism ( ARIJ ) . <p> At least 141 journalists have been killed in Israel 's war in Gaza since October 7 , 2023 , according to the CPJ. 
@@119336897 <h> Suing Antony Blinken : The US State Department , Israel And The Leahy Law <p> On December 17 , a number of Palestinians alleging human rights violations by Israel in Gaza and the West Bank filed a federal lawsuit pursuant to the Administrative Procedure Act ( APA ) against the US Secretary of State , Antony Blinken . Their contention : that the US State Department has failed to implement the strictures of the Leahy Law . The law , comprising one segment covering the State Department , and the other the Department of Defense , prohibits the use of US assistance to the units of foreign security forces suspected of committing gross violations of human rights ( GVHRs ) . The proviso for restoring that assistance can only take place if the offending entity in question takes adequate steps to address the violations . <p> Examples of such violations include torture , extrajudicial killing , prolonged detention without charges and trial , enforced disappearance , rape and , as broadly noted in the Leahy Law 's own definition " other flagrant denials of the right to life , liberty , or the security of the person . " <p> The action , supported by Democracy for the Arab World Now ( DAWN ) , seeks declaratory and injunctive relief based on Blinken 's " de facto refusal to implement the statute prohibiting US assistance to Israeli security force units about which there is credible information that they have committed gross violations of human rights " . <p> Advertisement - scroll to continue reading <p> Blinken 's record when applying the Leahy Law to Israeli units is disturbingly scrappy . In May , for instance , he explained to Congress that the punishments meted out to soldiers and officers in four cases prior to the Hamas attacks of October 7 , 2023 , were adequate . One example deserves attention , involving an officer in the Shahar Search and Rescue Battalion of the IDF . <p> The soldier in question shot and killed Ahmed Manasra , an unarmed Palestinian , in March 2019 . A plea deal reached between the military prosecutor and the soldier , subsequently approved by a panel of military judges , proved exceedingly generous to the soldier as it was degrading to Manasra : a three-month term of community service , and a three-month suspended sentence . Blinken accordingly found , as outlined in his memorandum of justification , that the Israeli government " is taking effective steps to bring to justice the responsible member of the Shahar Battalion . " It was a decision perplexing to Tim Rieser , a longtime aide to the chief author of the relevant statute , Sen. Patrick Leahy ( D-Vt ) . Blinken 's justification was inconsistent " with how the law is written and how it was intended to be applied . " <p> Former State Department officials linked to the original Leahy Law have been less than impressed by the lethargic actions of their former employer . Former Department member Stephen Rickard , who was also a former senior staff member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , confirms the favourable prejudice within the Department towards Israeli units , adopting what he calls a " ' see no evil , hear no evil ' policy " . " If the State Department will not comply with the law , then it is time for the courts to vindicate the rule of law and order it to do so . " <p> Former State Department Josh Paul , before a press conference discussing the lawsuit , was also candid . " I sat as part of the Israel Leahy Vetting Forum ILVF and saw repeatedly cases of gross violations of human rights being brought forward and senior officials being unwilling to act upon them because of fear of political consequences . " <p> The Forum has been more active of late , signalling , according to ProPublica , a marked departure " after years of deferential treatment of Israel " . That said , the lawsuit contends that the ILVF 's vetting operations are , for the most part , " unique , complex , lengthy , high-level " , not to mention " arbitrary and capricious , and is not rationally related to advancing the purpose of the Leahy Law . " This complexity is pure bureaucratic pantomime , intended to mask what is , at heart , a simple policy goal : exempting the conduct of Israeli forces from the level of scrutiny reserved for their international counterparts . <p> As the lawsuit contends , the State Department " annually vets hundreds of thousands of non-Israeli foreign security force units for compliance with the Leahy Law and ultimately suspends and deems thousands of them ineligible for US assistance . " Since the law 's enactment in 1997 , the department had failed to suspend or deem ineligible " a single Israeli unit despite overwhelming information of widespread GVHRs committed by Israel " . <p> In 2019 , Congress amended the Leahy Law to require the Secretary of State to provide foreign governments a list of ineligible units under the law and receive assurances that those governments would comply with the Leahy prohibition and block US assistance to such units before transferring assistance in cases of " untraceable assistance " . Despite this amendment , the IVLF failed to identify a single ineligible Israeli Unit responsible for gross human rights violations . <p> The failure to apply the law , the plaintiffs continue to argue , was " particularly shocking in the face of the unprecedented escalation of Israeli GVHRs since the Gaza War erupted on October 7 , 2023 . " The provisional orders of the International Court of Justice directing Israel to cease depriving Palestinians of essential items for their survival , and heeding the UN Genocide Convention , along with arrest warrants issued by the International Criminal Court for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defence Minister Yoav Gallant , underlined that point . <p> This legal action is taking place in the footsteps of previous efforts launched in US courts . In November 2023 , a lawsuit was filed in the US District Court for the Northern District of California by the Center for Constitutional Rights , acting for a number of Palestinian human rights organisations , along with Palestinians in Gaza and the United States . It sought an order from the Court " requiring that the President of the United States , the Secretary of State , and the Secretary of Defense adhere to their duty to prevent , and not further , the unfolding genocide of Palestinian people in Gaza . " <p> The relevant duty arose by virtue of the UN Genocide Convention , being " judicially enforceable as a peremptory norm of customary international law . " The complaint further argued that the genocidal conditions in Gaza had been " made possible because of unconditional support given to Israel by " President Joseph Biden , Secretary of State Blinken and Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin . <p> The applicants failed to convince the judge that they had jurisdictional grounds to sue the officials in question , despite the judge declaring that there had been plausible grounds that Israel was contributing to genocidal conditions . This was subsequently affirmed on appeal by a three-judge panel of the Ninth Circuit , primarily on the political question doctrine . The principle holds that courts are not to review instances where allegations of international law violations have taken place if there are substantial questions of foreign policy involved . An expansive reading of this is arguably unwarranted , given that US obligations at international law would presumably fall within the bounds of curial assessment . The litigants remain undeterred , and to challenge this further . <p> The litigation being steered by DAWN is likely to face similar arguments about jurisdiction : that assistance to foreign security units is a matter for the executive and therefore beyond a court 's assessment . But trite as it is , courts are there to guard the appropriate application of statutes . The Leahy Law , as evidence of Congressional instruction to the State Department , is unequivocal in its purpose and scope regarding gross human rights violations . The time , it would seem , has come for those instructions to be applied to Israel without deferential favour . <p> Dr. Binoy Kampmark was a Commonwealth Scholar at Selwyn College , Cambridge . He currently lectures at RMIT University . Email : bkampmark@gmail.com <h> Using Scoop for work ? <p> Scoop is free for personal use , but you 'll need a licence for work use . This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop . Join today with plans starting from less than $3 per week , plus gain access to exclusive Pro features . 
@@119336904 <h> Gaza : Ongoing Civilian Casualties Amid Aid Challenges <p> The relentless fighting in the Gaza Strip , which began last October , continues to cause widespread destruction and drive displacement , according to a note issued by the UN Spokesperson 's Office . <p> " The Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs ( OCHA ) stresses once again that civilians and civilian infrastructure , including hospitals , must be protected and spared from attacks , " the note stated . <p> The note also cited reports that Israeli authorities continue to deny and impede aid missions across the war-ravaged enclave . <p> " Out of 12 UN requests for coordinated humanitarian movements yesterday , six requests were denied outright , three were cancelled by the organizers due to security or logistical challenges , one was approved but faced impediments , and two others were facilitated and accomplished , " the note stated . <p> " One attempt to reach besieged parts of North Gaza governorate was denied yesterday and another one today , " it added . <p> Despite access restrictions and insecurity , aid organizations are working tirelessly to assist the most vulnerable as the humanitarian crisis in Gaza worsens . <p> With most families unable to afford basic food , prices have skyrocketed . Reports indicate that a 25-kilogram bag of wheat flour is now priced between $160 and $190 . <p> " Humanitarian partners working to address hunger in Gaza estimate that as of mid-December , 10,000 metric tonnes of wheat flour are needed to distribute one bag of flour to all families in Deir al Balah , Khan Younis and Rafah , " the note said . <p> Advertisement - scroll to continue reading <p> " Without this , food insecurity in central and southern areas of the Strip will only worsen . " <h> UN Mission urges protection of ceasefire in Lebanon <p> Meanwhile , the UN Interim Force in Lebanon ( UNIFIL ) stressed that any actions threatening the fragile cessation of hostilities , agreed last month between Israel and Lebanon , must cease . <p> " Israel and Lebanon have recommitted to full implementation of Security Council resolution 1701 , " UNIFIL in a statement , calling on both parties to use the newly established Mechanism as agreed to address outstanding issues . <p> UNIFIL also called for the timely withdrawal of the Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) and the deployment of the Lebanese Armed Forces ( LAF ) in southern Lebanon as part of the full implementation of the resolution as a comprehensive path toward peace . <p> It also noted concern over destruction caused by the IDF in residential areas , agricultural land and road networks in southern Lebanon , adding that such actions violate resolution 1701 . <p> " UNIFIL stands ready to play its role in supporting both countries meet their obligations and monitoring progress , " the Mission said . <p> " This includes ensuring the area south of the Litani River is free of any armed personnel , assets or weapons other than those of the Government of Lebanon and UNIFIL as well as respect for the Blue Line . " <p> It added that UN peacekeepers will continue their mandated tasks , including monitoring and reporting all violations of resolution 1701 to the Security Council . <h> Using Scoop for work ? <p> Scoop is free for personal use , but you 'll need a licence for work use . This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop . Join today with plans starting from less than $3 per week , plus gain access to exclusive Pro features . 
@@119337079 <h> Mohamed El-Erian offers his predictions for the new year while acknowledging that the range of possible outcomes is widening <p> Investing / opinion <p> Mohamed El-Erian offers his predictions for the new year while acknowledging that the range of possible outcomes is widening <p> 27th Dec 24 , 12:05pmbyMohamed El-Erian <p> By Mohamed El-Erian* <p> It is something of a tradition every December to take stock of the year that is ending and consider what might lie ahead . This is true on a personal level : in my family , we tend to do this around the dinner table . But it is also true more broadly , with the time of year inviting an examination of the intersection of economics , national politics , and global geopolitics . <p> You would be forgiven if , as a starting point , you expected these three areas to be in alignment . After all , they are deeply interconnected , which suggests self-reinforcing dynamics . But 2024 brought some unusual dispersion in this relationship that actually widened , rather than narrowed , over the course of the year . <p> Begin with geopolitics . In 2024 , Russia secured a greater advantage in the Ukraine war than the consensus forecasts of a year ago anticipated . Similarly , the human suffering and physical destruction resulting from the Israel-Hamas war in Gaza exceeded most observers ' already-grim expectations , and spread to other countries , such as Lebanon . The apparent impunity of the strong , together with the absence of effective means of preventing dire humanitarian crises , has deepened the sense for many that the global order is fundamentally imbalanced , and lacks any enforceable guardrails . <p> As for domestic politics , upheaval has been the order of the day in many countries . Governments have collapsed in both France and Germany -- Europe 's largest economies -- leaving the European Union without political leadership . And following Donald Trump 's victory in last month 's presidential election , the United States is preparing for a political transition that is likely to bring a significant increase in the political influence of a new " counter-elite . " <p> Meanwhile , an " axis of convenience " -- comprising China , Iran , North Korea , and Russia -- is seeking to challenge the Western-dominated international order . Other recent developments -- from the now-impeached South Korean president 's abrupt declaration of martial law ( which was quickly reversed ) to the collapse of Bashar al-Assad 's regime in Syria -- have reinforced the impression that we are living at a time of exceptional geopolitical and political volatility . <p> The last year also brought some worrisome macroeconomic developments . Europe 's malaise has deepened , as countries grapple with low growth and large budget deficits . And China has failed to respond credibly to the clear and present danger of " Japanification , " with unfavourable demographics , a debt overhang , and a prolonged property-market downturn undermining growth , economic efficiency , and consumer confidence . <p> And yet , stock markets have remained relatively stable and delivered high returns , including almost 60 record-high closes for the S&amp;P index . The US economy 's exceptional performance is a major reason why . Far from weakening , as most economists expected , the US pulled even further ahead . Given the amount of foreign capital the US is attracting , and the scale of its investment in the future drivers of productivity , competitiveness , and growth , it is likely to continue outperforming other major economies in 2025 . <p> One consequence of this success is that the US Federal Reserve did not deliver the soothing 1.75-2-percentage-point interest-rate cuts that markets were pricing in a year ago . This trend , too , is set to continue : at December 's policy meeting , the Fed signaled fewer cuts in 2025 , and a higher terminal ( long-run ) rate . <p> But political and geopolitical upheaval -- and the limited prospects for significant improvements -- does pose a risk to the endurance of US economic exceptionalism . Even if the US continues outperforming its peers , as expected , the range of possible outcomes , in terms of both growth and inflation , has widened . In fact , global economic and policy outcomes as a whole are now subject to a larger possibility set , both because the downside risks have grown and because upside innovations -- such as in artificial intelligence , life sciences , food security , health care , and defense -- could transform sectors and accelerate productivity gains . <p> Absent a major policy reset , my baseline scenario for the US includes a somewhat lower immediate growth rate , even as the economy outperforms its peers , and sticky inflation . This will present the Fed with a choice : accept above-target inflation or attempt to bring it down and risk tipping the economy into recession . <p> Globally , economic fragmentation will continue , pushing some countries to diversify their reserves further away from the US dollar and explore alternatives to Western payment systems . Yields on US ten-year government bonds -- a global benchmark -- will edge higher , trading mostly in the 4.75-5% range . As for financial markets , they might find it more challenging to maintain their status as the " good house " in a challenging geo-economic neighbourhood . <p> This is how things appear now . But , beyond recognising the wider dispersion of possible economic outcomes in 2025 , it will be crucial regularly to test whichever baseline one embraces against actual developments . <p> Remember we welcome robust , respectful and insightful debate . We do n't welcome abusive or defamatory comments and will de-register those repeatedly making such comments . Our current comment policy is here . <h> 3 Comments <p> I really thought we 'd see a US market correction last year based on valuations , CAPE , Buffet indicator etc . We 've had such an amazing run over the last 15 years and now most analysts seem to be saying they think this thing has the legs to go further . <p> USA companies will boom for the next decade , the businesses that offshored to Asia in search of cheap labour will begin on shoring , robotics replaces workers . This will be deflationary too . We may have reached peak iPhone however consumers will want robots and whoever leads the advancement in that tech will be the next Apple . 
@@119337189 <p> Attacks:There are no safe places for the militarily-dominated population in Gaza , who find themselves subjected to airstrikes and other missile attackson buildings , homes and many essentialfacilities , as well as constant gunfire and invasions by Israeli forces.The Israeli Navy continues to fire missiles , targeting facilities and buildings along the entire Gaza shoreline . <p> Victims:38more people have been killedwithin the past 48 hours , bringing the total number killed in Gaza since 7 October2023 to at least45,399 . Another 137have been wounded , bringing that total to 107,940 . The daily average number of men , women and children killed in Gaza is at least 102and , thatof those injured , is nowmore than242 . <h> OCHA : <h> West Bank <p> Since midnight on 07 October 2023 , Occupation forces have been imposing a complete closure around the whole of the West Bank , **26;1831;TOOLONG even permit -- holders ) from entering both the city of Jerusalem as well as Israel , otherwise than for especially -- negotiated exceptions . Permanent military checkpoints impose severe travel restrictions within the Occupied West Bank . <p> Israeli Army attacks -- 5 wounded in refugee camps -- homes and other property destroyed with explosives : Tulkarem -- Since 01:00 on 24 December , Israeli forces , storming the city as well as the Nur Shams and Tulkarem refugee camps , have been invading homes , wounding five residents , so far including one woman , one elderly person and a paramedic named Ahmed Hattab . Seven residents have also been taken prisoner . The Israeli Army used explosives to destroy a house in the Nur Shams refugee camp , as well as another in the Tulkarem refugee camp . Explosives were also used to demolish shops , in the Nur Shams refugee camp , as well as a warehouse in the city . <p> Israeli Army attack -- 1killed -- home damaged by anti-tank grenades : Tulkarem -- 16:30 , the Israeli Army , firing live ammunition , stormed the town of Quffin and fired anti-tank rifle grenades at a house , killing a resident : Ahmed Mahmoud Khaled Amarneh . <p> Israeli Army attack -- explosives used to destroy property : Tulkarem -- Israeli troopsused explosives to destroy shops as well as a warehouse in the city . <p> Home invasion -- 8 taken prisoner : Tulkarem -- 10:00 , Israeli forces raided the town of Bal'a , besieging a house and takingprisoner eight residents . <p> Home invasion and population -- control : Qalqiliya -- 02:00 , Israeli troops raided the village of Izbit Salman , invaded a home and ordered a resident to report for interrogation at Israeli Military Intelligence . <p> Home invasions -- 2 taken prisoner : Qalqiliya -- 02:20 , the IsraeliArmyraided the town of Azzun and invaded seven homes , taking prisoner two residents . <p> Home invasion -- 2 taken prisoner:Salfit -- 10:20 , Israeli troops raided the town of Burqinand searched a house , taking prisoner two people . <p> Israeli Occupation population -- control:Jerusalem -- 11:00 , in the Old City , the Israeli Occupation set up alargeMenorah ( candelabra ) in Al-Buraq Square , as well as on the Arab Heritage Centrebuilding , clearly visible from the Al-Aqsa Mosque . <p> Israeli Army economic sabotage and population -- control:Jerusalem -- 16:50 , the Israeli Army , in the village of al-Jib , forced a resident , Muhammad Mahmoud Abu Diya , to demolish his ownpoultry farm -- or otherwise be faced with an extortionate bill from Occupation forces for its destruction . <p> Occupation settlement land-grab and population -- control : Tubas -- 11:50 , Israeli Occupation settlers forcedoff farmers from their land , near the North Jordan Valley village of Bardala , and established a new settlement outpost on it . <p> Occupation settler arrogance : Jericho -- 10:00 , Occupation settlers built a pergola , with the Star of David on it , in the al-Auja waterfall area . <p> Occupation settler arson : Jericho -- 23:50 , Israeli Occupation settlers raided the Herod 's Palace in the city and set fire to a nearby archaeological area . <p> Occupation settler population -- control : Hebron -- 12:00 , Israeli settlers attacked residents , in the Mafqara area east of Yatta , and closed the entrance to it . They also headed to the Khallet al-Daba ' area and terrorised residents . <p> Leslie Bravery is a Londoner with vivid World War Two memories of the Nazi blitz on his home town . In 1947/1948 His father explained to him what was happening to the Palestinians thus : " Any ideology or political movement that creates refugees in the process of realising its ambitions must be inhuman and should be opposed and condemned as unacceptable . " What followed confirmed this assessment of the Zionist entity a hundredfold . Now a retired flamenco guitarist , with a lifelong interest in the tragedy of what happened to the Palestinian people , he tries to publicise their plight . Because the daily injustices they suffer barely get a mention in the mainstream news media , Leslie edits/compiles a daily newsletter , In Occupied Palestine , for the Palestine Human Rights Campaign . These days , to preserve his sanity , he enjoys taking part in a drama group whenever possible ! <h> 6 COMMENTS <p> It 's been the Plan since 1948 . The elimination or exclusion of the Palestinian people to form the U$$ Zionist backed Jewish Israehell . Backed by billions of U$$ dollars to buy weapons , bombs and aircraft . This atrocity is now naked with the Gaza Genocide. 
@@119371496 <p> Attacks:There are no safe places for the militarily-dominated population in Gaza , who find themselves subjected to airstrikes and other missile attackson buildings , homes and many essentialfacilities , as well as constant gunfire and invasions by Israeli forces.The Israeli Navy continues to fire missiles , targeting facilities and buildings along the entire Gaza shoreline . <p> Victims:37more people have been killedwithin the past 48 hours , bringing the total number killed in Gaza since 7 October2023 to at least45,436 . Another 98have been wounded , bringing that total to 108,038 . The daily average number of men , women and children killed in Gaza is at least 101and , thatof those injured , is nowmore than242 . <p> Israeli forces burn Gaza 's Kamal Adwan Hospital , <p> contact with staff lost <p> The Gaza Health Ministry says it has lost contact with staff inside the Kamal Adwan Hospital as Israel sets fire to it . <p> Israeli forces on Friday raided the Kamal Adwan Hospital , one of three medical facilities on the northern edge of the Gaza Strip , torching large sections and ordering dozens of patients and hundreds of others to leave , officials said.In separate incidents across Gaza , Israeli strikes killed at least 25 people , medics said . One of those strikes on a house in Gaza City killed 15 people , medics and the civil emergency service said . <p> The Palestinian Health Ministry said contact with staff inside the facility , which has been under heavy pressure from Israeli forces for weeks , had been lost . " The occupation forces are inside the hospital now and they are burning it , " Munir Al-Bursh , Director of the Health Ministry in Hamas-run Gaza , said in a statement . Youssef Abu El-Rish , the deputy health minister in Gaza , said troops set fires in several parts of Kamal Adwan , including the hospital 's lab and surgery department . <p> An Israeli airstrike on Thursday killed 50 people near the hospital , including five medical workers . The ministry said 25 patients and 60 health workers remained in the hospital out of 75 patients and 180 staff . However , attempts to reach hospital staff were unsuccessful . <p> " Fire is ablaze everywhere in the hospital , " an unidentified member of the staff said in an audio message from the hospital posted on the social media accounts of its director , Hossam Abu Safiya.The staffer said some evacuated patients had been unhooked from oxygen . " There are currently patients who could die at any moment , " she said.Like the Indonesian and Al-Awda hospitals , Kamal Adwan has been repeatedly attacked by Israeli forces who have been attacking the northern edge of the Gaza Strip for weeks , Palestinian medical staff say . <p> Hundreds ordered to leave hospital <p> Bursh said the army had ordered 350 people to leave Kamal Adwan for a nearby school sheltering displaced families . They included 75 patients , their companions , and 185 medical staff . Abu El-Rish said soldiers were transferring patients and medical staff to the Indonesian Hospital , which had already been put out of action by heavy damage and had been evacuated by Israeli forces a day earlier . Footage circulating on Palestinian and Arab media showed smoke rising from the area of Kamal Adwan . <p> Much of the area around the northern towns of Jabalia , Beit Hanoun and Beit Lahia has been cleared of people and systematically razed , fuelling speculation that Israel intends to ethnically cleanse the area and permanently occupy it . <p> In a statement , Hamas blamed Israel and the United States for the fate of Kamal Adwan Hospital 's occupants.Israel 's war on Gaza has killed over 45,436 Palestinians , according to health officials in the enclave . Most of the population of 2.3 million has been displaced , and much of Gaza is in ruins . <p> Since midnight on 07 October 2023 , Occupation forces have been imposing a complete closure around the whole of the West Bank , **26;493;TOOLONG even permit -- holders ) from entering both the city of Jerusalem as well as Israel , otherwise than for especially -- negotiated exceptions . Permanent military checkpoints impose severe travel restrictions within the Occupied West Bank . <p> Israeli Army attack -- 1 wounded in refugee camp -- 3 taken prisoner : Nablus -- 00:30 -- 04:40 , Israeli forces , firinglive ammunition , stormed the city as well asthe Askar refugee camp , wounding one resident , Qais Muhammad Farouk Al-Ajouri , and setting fireto a vehicle , driven into by a military bulldozer . Three other residents were taken prisoner . <p> Home invasions : Ramallah -- 12:00 , Israeli Occupation forces raided the town of Kobarand searched a number of homes . <p> Raid -- 1 taken prisoner:Jenin -- 03:15 -- 05:30 , the Israeli Army raided the town of al-Silah al-Harithiya , taking prisoner one person . <p> Raid -- 1 beaten-up and hospitalised:Tulkarem -- 18:45 , Israeli troops raided the town of Bal'a and delivered an order for the demolition of a house . They also beat-up and hospitalised a resident:Muhammad Talal Farid Abu Yassin . <p> Raid -- abduction:Tulkarem -- 23:45 -- 01:15 , the Israeli Army raided the village of Far'un and abducted a child . <p> Leslie Bravery is a Londoner with vivid World War Two memories of the Nazi blitz on his home town . In 1947/1948 His father explained to him what was happening to the Palestinians thus : " Any ideology or political movement that creates refugees in the process of realising its ambitions must be inhuman and should be opposed and condemned as unacceptable . " What followed confirmed this assessment of the Zionist entity a hundredfold . Now a retired flamenco guitarist , with a lifelong interest in the tragedy of what happened to the Palestinian people , he tries to publicise their plight . Because the daily injustices they suffer barely get a mention in the mainstream news media , Leslie edits/compiles a daily newsletter , In Occupied Palestine , for the Palestine Human Rights Campaign . These days , to preserve his sanity , he enjoys taking part in a drama group whenever possible ! 
@@119371553 <p> Israeli forces have detained more than 240 Palestinians , including dozens of medical staff and the director of a north Gaza hospital they raided on Friday , according to the Health Ministry in the enclave and Israel 's military . <p> The Health Ministry said it was concerned about the well-being of Hussam Abu Safiya , director of the Kamal Adwan Hospital , as some staff freed by the Israeli military late on Friday said he was beaten up by soldiers . <p> The Israeli military said the hospital was being used as a command centre for Hamas military operations and those arrested were suspected militants . It said Abu Safiya was taken for questioning as he was suspected of being a Hamas operative . <p> On Friday , Hamas dismissed as lies Israel 's assertion that its fighters had operated from the hospital throughout the 15-month-old Gaza war , saying no fighters were in the hospital . The group had not yet commented on the 240 arrests . <p> The raid on the hospital , one of three medical facilities on the northern edge of Gaza , put the last major health facility in north Gaza out of service , the World Health Organization ( WHO ) said in a post on X. <p> The " WHO is appalled by yesterday 's raid . The systematic dismantling of the health system and a siege for over 80 days on North Gaza puts the lives of the 75,000 Palestinians remaining in the area at risk , " the WHO said . <p> Some patients were evacuated from Kamal Adwan to the Indonesian Hospital , which is not in service , and medics were prevented from joining them there , the Gaza Health Ministry said . Other patients and staff were taken to other medical facilities . <p> The Israeli military said 350 patients and medical personnel were evacuated prior to the Kamal Adwan operation , while another 95 were evacuated to the Indonesian Hospital during the operation , in co-ordination with local health authorities . <p> Separately , the Gaza Health Ministry said Israeli strikes across the enclave killed 18 Palestinians on Saturday , at least nine of them in a house in Maghazi camp in central Gaza Strip . <p> The Israeli military had no immediate comment on the strikes and fatalities . <h> Targets in northern Gaza <p> In the past few months Israeli forces have pushed people out and razed much of the area around the northern Gaza towns of Jabalia , Beit Hanoun and Beit Lahiya . <p> Palestinians have accused Israel of carrying out ethnic cleansing by depopulating those areas to create a buffer zone . Israel denies it is doing this , saying it aims to prevent Hamas fighters from regrouping in these areas . <p> The Israeli military said on Saturday it had begun operating overnight against targets in the Beit Hanoun area , adding that " troops are enabling civilians still in the area to move away for their own safety " . <p> The military also posted new evacuation orders to residents of Beit Hanoun , ordering them to leave and head towards the southern areas of the Gaza Strip , citing rockets fired from the area . <p> In a statement , it said two rockets fired from north Gaza towards Jerusalem and other Israeli territory were intercepted . <p> Israel 's campaign against Hamas , which previously controlled Gaza , has killed more than 45,400 Palestinians , according to health officials in the enclave . Most of the population of 2.3 million has been displaced and much of Gaza is in ruins . <p> The war was triggered by Hamas ' attack on southern Israel on 7 October 2023 , in which 1200 people were killed and 251 taken to Gaza as hostages , according to Israeli tallies. 
@@119376897 <p> 201 Palestinian journalists killed in Israel 's war on Gaza . . . an Anadolu Agency compilation of the media workers wiped out by the Israel military , many of them targeted and some with their families also becoming victims . Image : Anadolu Ajensi <p> Al Jazeera reports that Israel , which has not allowed foreign journalists to enter Gaza except on military embeds with the Israeli " Defence " Forces ( IDF ) , which is increasingly being dubbed by critics as the Israeli " Offence " Forces ( " IOF " ) , has been condemned by many media freedom organisations . <p> New Zealand journalist and author Dr David Robie . . . critical of New Zealand media 's role over the Gaza genocide . Image : Del Abcede/APR <p> Al Jazeera itself was banned by Israel in May from reporting within the country , and was subsequently barred from reporting within the occupied West Bank and the closure of the Ramallah bureau in mid-September . <p> Israel has tried to silence Al Jazeera previously in by threatening it in 2017 , bombing its broadcast office in Gaza in 2021 , and assassinating celebrated journalist Shireen Abu Akleh in 2022 and other reporters with impunity . <p> Al Jazeera , TRT News and many independent news outlets as Democracy Now ! , The Intercept , Middle East Eye and The Palestine Chronicle stand in contrast to mainstream media such as BBC , CNN , The New York Times , and The Washington Post that have frequently been called out in investigative reports for systemic bias against Palestine . <p> Among the poignant messages from Palestinian journalists documenting this war are Bisan Owda , who signs on her video reports every day with " I 'm still alive " . <p> But I would like to share this reflection from another journalist , videographer Osama Abu Rabee who says on his X news feed that he is " capturing the untold stories of resilience and hope " . He said in one post this week : <p> Kia Ora Gaza facilitator Roger Fowler ( in hat ) . . . a tribute for his many years of support for the Palestine freedom cause . Image : APR <p> ' Moments away from death ' " One of my most vivid memories is when three journalists and I were in Eastern Jabalia and we needed to connect our e-sims to edit and upload content of a massacre . <p> " We went to a room but the connection was n't good so I suggested we go into another room . Less than 5 minutes later , the room we had been in got bombed . <p> " People came over running thinking that we were killed but luckily there were only injuries . <p> " This was one of the many times that I was moments away from death . I know that I 'm targeted as a Palestinian but also as a journalist . <p> " Every single day I step out of my house and put on my ' press ' vest and I look behind at my family , I 'm not sure if I 'll see them again . <p> " I hope you understand the risks we are taking to show you the truth . <p> " Even 15 month later , we continue to go out every single day and document the horrors that people in Gaza experience . <p> " We do this so that when God asks what you do , we respond with ' we did what we could ' . " <p> NZ media 's role shameful Can journalists and the media in Aotearoa New Zealand say with hand on heart that " we did what we could " in the face of this genocide ? <p> Palestinian advocate Katrina Mitchell-Kouttab . . . powerful address in how people in New Zealand can help in the face of Israel 's genocide . Image : APR <p> Of course not , the role of New Zealand media has been shameful , apart from notable exceptions such as Gordon Campbell . <p> It has failed to hold the Christopher Luxon coalition government to account over its pathetic inaction over the genocide . <p> It has failed to press the government into taking a stronger and more principled stance at the United Nations to call for sanctions against the apartheid and genocidal regime , or to even expel Israel from the global chamber -- or the ambassador from Wellington . <p> Take Ireland , a smallish country like New Zealand , as an inspirational example . Earlier this month , Ireland responded immediately to the closure of Israel 's embassy in Dublin by opening a Palestinian museum on the premises . <p> Prime Minister Simon Harris condemned Israel 's genocidal actions , particularly against children and reaffirmed his country 's commitment to human rights and international law . <p> " You know what I think is reprehensible ? Killing children , I think that 's reprehensible . <p> " You know what I think is reprehensible ? Seeing the scale of civilian deaths that we 've seen in Gaza . <p> " You know what I think is reprehensible ? People being left to starve and humanitarian aid not flowing , " <p> Silence of the news media Have we ever had such a courageous statement like this from our Prime Minister . Absolutely not . <p> It is shameful that our government has not taken a stand . <p> And it is shameful that the New Zealand media has been so silent over this most horrendous episode of our times -- genocide , ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity in front of our very eyes for 15 months . <p> To my knowledge , journalists in Aotearoa have not made even made statements of solidarity with the journalists of Gaza and their horrific sacrifice to bear witness to the truth . <p> New Zealand journalists have already " normalised " the genocide . Shameful . <p> Dr David Robie is convenor of Pacific Media Watch and editor of Asia Pacific Report . This was first presented as an address to a Palestinian solidarity rally in Aotearoa New Zealand 's Te Komititanga Square in Auckland Tamaki Makaurau on 28 December 2024 . <p> A banner condemning New Zealand media for being " silent and complicit " over Israel 's genocide in Gaza . Image : APR 
@@119401942 <h> Last Hospital In Northern Gaza Out Of Service Following Raid <p> The raid , reportedly by Israeli forces , saw some areas of the hospital burnt and severely damaged , including the laboratory , surgical unit and medical store . The director of the hospital , Dr. Abu Safiya , is thought to have been detained during the raid.WHO has lost contact with him . <p> A number of people were reportedly stripped and forced to walk toward southern Gaza , whilst critically ill patients were forced to relocate to the Indonesian Hospital , which lacks the necessary equipment and supplies to provide adequate care . WHO says that the movement and treatment of patients under such conditions pose grave risks to their survival . An urgent WHO mission to Indonesian Hospital is being planned for Sunday to safely move them to southern Gaza for continued care . <h> Escalating attacks <p> The WHO described the raid as part of the " systematic dismantling of the health system " , noting that , over a two-month period , attacks on health workers and the hospitals in the area have taken place almost daily : this week alone , bombardments in its vicinity reportedly killed 50 people , including five health workers from Kamal Adwan Hospital . <p> The deployment of international emergency medical teams has been repeatedly denied and , despite the increasingly dire needs for emergency and trauma services and supplies , only 10 out of 21 WHO missions to Kamal Adwan have been partially facilitated between early October and December . <p> Despite the restrictions , the WHO missions succeeded in delivering 45,000 litres of fuel , medical supplies , blood , and food were delivered , and 114 patients along with 123 of their companions were transferred to Al-Shifa Hospital in Gaza City . <h> Using Scoop for work ? <p> Scoop is free for personal use , but you 'll need a licence for work use . This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop . Join today with plans starting from less than $3 per week , plus gain access to exclusive Pro features . 
@@119402108 <p> I think lights and decorations by the city are important harbingers of Christmas and inspire the magical spirit . <p> It does n't have to be massively expensive , we have unused Christmas banners and decorations ; use what we have and add a bit each year . <p> Follow South Dunedin 's lead and have a competition between shops , an Octagon gingerbread house competition or have pop-up music and elves or . . . there are lots of people who spread the " good cheer " . <p> Maybe more ugly T-shirts and wearing of reindeer antlers or lighting up cars and houses would reverse the trend of violence toward each other . <p> I applaud South Dunedin and ask the city council to lead from the front and make Dunedin the fun capital at Christmas time . <p> Thanks to all who help give us a very Meri Kirihimete . <p> Moira and Poly cat Watson <p> Dunedin <h> Walk a mile <p> I wonder whether Joyce Yee-Murdoch ( Letters , 23.12.24 ) has heard the saying , " You ca n't really understand another person 's experience until you 've walked a mile in their shoes . " If she has , I do n't think she has comprehended it , not just with her mind but at the heart level . <p> The comparison she makes with successful immigrants is not valid . How would we , white New Zealanders , feel if our country were invaded by a foreign power and we lost our language , culture , and sense of identity ? <p> James Irwin <p> Normanby <h> Bring back train <p> Once more , there are tourists wandering around Port Chalmers , wanting to get into town , but buses all full , and no train . What a welcome . Not . <p> A while back , a Dunedin Railways train would roll right out on to the wharf , mere metres from the ship , and whisk hundreds of them away to the delights of Dunedin city , or the hinterland of the Taieri , to the satisfaction of all . <p> Can someone knock a few heads together , and get the train back ? A win-win , surely . Do the right thing for the city , chaps . <p> Mac Gardner <p> Dunedin <h> Beware using meningococcal <p> I was alarmed by the suggestion today ( ODT , 24.12.24 ) that students should be encouraged to deliberately infect themselves with meningococcus . <p> We see over and over in the media the misuse of the word " meningococcal " as a noun . It is not . The error is repeated in the second paragraph where " meningococcal " is again used as a noun . <p> Your headline therefore seems to encourage a dangerous practice of applying a " meningococcal jab " which can only mean a jab of meningococcus . The meningitis vaccine does not contain meningococcus itself , but only proteins and other subunits of the bacterium . <p> Terry Maguire <p> Corstorphine <h> No room <p> A Christmas extension : for Jesus and his parents , there was no room at the inn ; for Palestinian families in Gaza , there is no room in the whole land . 
@@119402248 <p> Attacks:There are no safe places for the militarily-dominated population in Gaza , who find themselves subjected to airstrikes and other missile attackson buildings , homes and many essentialfacilities , as well as constant gunfire and invasions by Israeli forces.The Israeli Navy continues to fire missiles , targeting facilities and buildings along the entire Gaza shoreline . <p> Victims:48more people have been killedwithin the past 48 hours , bringing the total number killed in Gaza since 7 October2023 to at least45,484 . Another 52have been wounded , bringing that total to 108,090 . The daily average number of men , women and children killed in Gaza is at least 101and , thatof those injured , is nowmore than241 . <p> Freezing temperatures have killed three Palestinian babies in the Gaza Strip amid a deadly Israeli onslaught on the enclave , officials and local media said on Thursday . A three-week-old baby girl lost her life in a tent encampment in al-Mawasi in the southern city of Khan Yunis on Wednesday , Dr Munir Al-Bursh , the Director General of Gaza 's Health Ministry , said on his X account . Sela Mahmoud Al-Fasih " froze to death from the extreme cold " , he added . <p> The official Palestinian news agency , Wafa , said two other infants , ages three days and one month , have also died from cold temperatures and a lack of access to warm shelter . The Israeli Army has continued a brutal offensive on the Gaza Strip that has killed nearly 45,400 people , mostly women and children , since a Hamas attack on 7 October last year , despite a UN Security Council resolution calling for an immediate ceasefire . Tel Aviv has imposed a stifling blockade on Gaza , leaving the territory 's 2.3 million population on the verge of famine . <p> One doctor , a lab technician and two maintenance workers were among those killed as a fourth baby in three days dies of cold during Israel 's genocide . Israel 's genocide has killed five staff members at one of northern Gaza 's last functioning hospitals , the facility 's director says , as yet another baby freezes to death in the besieged and bombed Palestinian enclave . Hussam Abu Safia , Head of Kamal Adwan Hospital in Beit Lahiya , on Thursday said the " martyrs included a doctor . " Al Jazeera 's Hind Khoudary , reporting from Central Gaza , said a laboratory technician and two maintenance workers were among those killed in the attack . " We know that the hospital is one of the only medical facilities still operating , and it is working with the bare minimum human resources and a lack of medical supplies , " she said . <p> " Israeli forces have been attacking the surroundings of Kamal Adwan Hospital , sending quadcopters inside the hospital and shooting Palestinians . " The hospital has been rendered non -- operational after weeks of near-daily attacks . Israeli forces previously killed the Director of the hospital 's ICU , Dr Ahmed al-Kahlout , and wounded dozens of medical staff in attacks on and near the facility . Khoudary said Palestinian rescue workers have been unable to reach the bodies of those killed at the hospital . " People are unable to bury those Palestinians who are being killed every single day by the Israeli forces in northern Gaza , " she added . <p> Israel has targeted a broadcast van close to a hospital in Central Gaza , killing at least five journalists , according to Palestinian authorities and media reports . The journalists , from the al-Quds Today channel , were covering events near al-Awda Hospital , located in the Nuseirat refugee camp , when their broadcasting van was hit by an Israeli air strike , Al Jazeera 's Anas al-Sharif reported early on Thursday morning . Footage from the scene circulating on social media shows a vehicle engulfed in flames . A screen -- shot taken from a video of the white-coloured van shows the word " Press " in large red lettering across the back of the vehicle . The deceased journalists have been named as Fadi Hassouna , Ibrahim al-Sheikh Ali , Mohammed al-Ladah , Faisal Abu al-Qumsan and Ayman al-Jadi . Al Jazeera 's al-Sharif said that Ayman al-Jadi had been waiting for his wife in front of the hospital while she was in labour to give birth to their first child . <p> Since midnight on 07 October 2023 , Occupation forces have been imposing a complete closure around the whole of the West Bank , **26;700;TOOLONG even permit -- holders ) from entering both the city of Jerusalem as well as Israel , otherwise than for especially -- negotiated exceptions . Permanent military checkpoints impose severe travel restrictions within the Occupied West Bank . <p> Home invasion and forced personal demolition : Jerusalem -- the Israeli Occupation forced a resident , Abu Zaid Awadallah , to destroy his home in Sur Baher -- or otherwise be forced to pay an extortionate sum to the Israeli Occupation demolition squads , who would be sent in to do it . <p> Home invasions and armed robbery : place -- Jerusalem -- morning , Israeli forces raided Azzun and invaded a number of houses , plundering one of them of cash to the value of approximately$US1280 . <p> Home invasion:Nablus -- morning , Israeli troops raided the village of Beit Dajan and invaded a house . <p> Home invasions:Hebron -- 17:45 , the Israeli Army raided the town of Idhna and invaded a number of homes . <p> Israeli Army population -- control -- land-grab and agricultural sabotage:Tubas -- Occupation troopsforced farmers to stopworking their land in the North Jordan Valley Umm al-Quba area and forced them off it . <p> Israeli Army agricultural sabotage:Nablus -- the Israeli Army uprooted a number of olive trees , as well as trees in a forest near the village of Madama . <p> Israeli Army population -- control -- armed robbery:Nablus -- 15:15 , Israeli troops seized a bulldozer owned by a villager in Madama , as he was attempting to clear huge barriers of soil piled up between Madama and Asira al-Qibliya villages . <p> Occupation settler stoning:Nablus -- 12:10 , Israelis , from the Yitzhar Occupation settlement , stoned passing vehicles near a roundabout , north of Huwara . <p> Leslie Bravery is a Londoner with vivid World War Two memories of the Nazi blitz on his home town . In 1947/1948 His father explained to him what was happening to the Palestinians thus : " Any ideology or political movement that creates refugees in the process of realising its ambitions must be inhuman and should be opposed and condemned as unacceptable . " What followed confirmed this assessment of the Zionist entity a hundredfold . Now a retired flamenco guitarist , with a lifelong interest in the tragedy of what happened to the Palestinian people , he tries to publicise their plight . Because the daily injustices they suffer barely get a mention in the mainstream news media , Leslie edits/compiles a daily newsletter , In Occupied Palestine , for the Palestine Human Rights Campaign . These days , to preserve his sanity , he enjoys taking part in a drama group whenever possible ! 
@@119435533 <h> Protest Against Israeli Tennis Player At The ASB Tennis Classic Today <p> PSNA is supporting the protest at the ASB Tennis Classic this afternoon to express outrage at the participation of Israeli tennis player Lina Glushko . <p> In Glushko 's own words : <p> " In these tough days , what my country is going through I ca n't be more proud and happy to play with the Israeli flag next to my name and win matches " <p> Photo/Supplied <p> Glushko has served in the Israeli military and is an Israeli army reservist . She is representing the rogue , apartheid state of Israel at the tournament . <p> " It is utterly unacceptable that the ASB Tennis Classic would include a reservist soldier from an army committing genocide in Gaza " says PSNA National Chair John Minto . <p> " Amnesty International , Human Rights Watch and Medecins Sans Frontieres ( Doctors without Borders ) and United Nations officials have all condemned Israel for crimes of genocide and extermination in Gaza " <p> Advertisement - scroll to continue reading <p> Within the last few days Israel has renewed attacks on Gaza 's hospitals as it tries to drive the entire Palestinian population from northern Gaza in a massive ethnic cleansing operation called the General 's plan . <p> Palestinians have faced 76 years of brutal Israeli occupation , ethnic cleansing , apartheid and genocide and have repeatedly called for BDS ( Boycott , Divestment and Sanctions ) against Israel to bring international pressure for change . This means ending sporting , cultural , economic and diplomatic relations with Israel . <p> " Apartheid is a crime against humanity wherever it is practiced . Just as we protested apartheid South African players at sports tournaments in the past we are protesting an Israel player today " <p> 14 years ago Palestine solidarity supporters protested Israeli player Shahar Peer at the same tournament . <p> " Politics and sport are always strongly linked and Glushko 's presence is part of Israel 's strategy to normalise its racism and apartheid against Palestinians . New Zealanders will have none of it " <p> ASB itself is already morally crippled with its investments in companies such as Motorola which are complicit in building and maintaining illegal Israeli settlements in the occupied Palestinian territories . Now it is helping to normalise Israeli genocide by having Lina Glushko compete . <p> PSNA has previously written to the government asking it to suspend all visas for Israelis who have served in the Israeli military from coming to New Zealand . We have not yet had a response . <h> Using Scoop for work ? <p> Scoop is free for personal use , but you 'll need a licence for work use . This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop . Join today with plans starting from less than $3 per week , plus gain access to exclusive Pro features . 
@@119435534 <p> " Nelson City Council is taking action while our government is looking the other way " , says PSNA National Chair John Minto . " It is Christopher Luxon who should be ending all New Zealand dealings with companies involved in the illegal Israeli ... More &gt;&gt; <p> " Israel is an out-of-control rogue state which is pushing hard for an all-out war with Iran " says PSNA National Chair John Minto . " Our government must condemn the killings and demand accountability for Israel 's reckless provocations " More &gt;&gt; <p> However , this vote will only have practical meaning if New Zealand follows through on the resolution 's requirement that we ban imports from companies operating in the Occupied Palestinian Territories . More &gt;&gt; <p> " With this latest attack our government must condemn Israel " says PSNA National Chair John Minto . " Israel is an out-of-control rogue state which is an imminent danger to peace and security the world over " More &gt;&gt; <p> PSNA welcomes the Labour Party announcement today calling on the government to announce a ban on procurement of goods and services from illegal Israeli settlements in the occupied Palestinian territories . More &gt;&gt; <p> PSNA has written to the government asking it to suspend military-capable exports from Auckland-based company Rakon pending an independent investigation into their use in Israel 's genocidal attacks on Gaza . More &gt;&gt; <p> Winston Peters ' bluff and bluster in his General Assembly speech at the United Nations yesterday are a classic case of doing one thing at home and saying another for overseas audiences . Peters ' described the war on Gaza as an " utter ... More &gt;&gt; <p> Palestine Solidarity Network Aotearoa has written to the New Zealand Olympic Committee urging it to join the international campaign for apartheid Israel to be banned from the 2024 Paris Olympics ( 26 July to 11 August ) Horrendous Israeli war crimes against ... More &gt;&gt; <p> Today 's announcement by the government to designate Hamas a " terrorist " organisation is cowardly and wrong . The United Nations and most of the rest of world does not give Hamas this designation and neither should New Zealand . PSNA does not support ... More &gt;&gt; 
@@119435551 <p> At least 18.2 million children were born into hunger in 2024 , or about 35 children a minute , with conflict and climate crises combining to drive at least 800,000 more children into hunger over the year , according to a Save the Children analysis . <p> Analysis of U.N . Food and Agriculture Organization ( FAO ) data showed the number of children born into hunger rose by around 5% in 2024 compared to a year earlier and 19% more than the 15.3 million recorded in 2019 when progress on tackling childhood hunger began to stall . 1 <p> Conflict , displacement , extreme weather events , and the increasing relative cost of food have all contributed towards a decline in children 's nutrition globally . <p> Children born into hunger this year include babies born in countries facing a risk of famine or catastrophic conditions of acute food insecurity including South Sudan , Haiti , Mali and Sudan , where famine-levels of malnutrition have spread across half of the country 's 18 states . 2 <p> Advertisement - scroll to continue reading <p> In addition , there was a warning in early November of a strong likelihood that famine was imminent or already underway in the northern Gaza Strip and 345,000 people across Gaza could face catastrophic hunger in the coming months. 3 The occupied Palestinian territory is not included in the annual FAO data on undernourishment , 4 but the warning came from the leading global authority on hunger , the Integrated Food Security Phase Classification . <h> Hannah Stephenson , Global Head of Hunger and Nutrition at Save the Children , said : <p> " Over 18 million newborns this year - 35 children a minute - were born into a world where hunger is their reality from their first moments of life . Hunger knows no boundaries . It erodes childhoods , drains children 's energy and risks robbing them of their futures . Children should be free to play or expand their minds in class . No child should be worrying about when their next meal will be . <p> " We need immediate funding and safe access for humanitarian lifesaving services for children and families in desperate need of food , nutrition , healthcare , safe water , sanitation and hygiene , social protection and livelihoods support . We have the tools to significantly reduce the number of malnourished children right now , like we have in the past . <p> " However , if we do not tackle the root causes of hunger and malnutrition , we will continue to see the reversal of progress made for children . " <p> Children are always the most vulnerable in food crises and without enough to eat and the right nutritional balance , children are at high risk of becoming acutely malnourished . Malnutrition can cause stunting , impede mental and physical development , increase the risk of contracting deadly diseases , and ultimately cause death . <p> In countries where at least 20% of the population is facing hunger , the Democratic Repubilc of Congo ( DRC ) was expected to have the highest number of babies born undernourished this year at around 1.6 million with conflict remaining a key driver of hunger in the DRC and globally . <p> Climate shocks such as floods and droughts meanwhile increasingly threaten children 's access to food . More than 1.4 million babies were born into hunger in Pakistan , one of the world 's most climate vulnerable countries. 5 Pakistan saw the second highest number of babies born into hunger among countries with over 20% undernourishment . <p> Uzma- , 28 , lives in the Baluchistan province of Pakistan and is struggling to feed her five children , including 17-month-old Inaaya- , who is malnourished , and twin girls who were born in November . Her husband runs a small shop but does not earn enough to support the family . Save the Children supports Uzma's- family with nutrition and with information on how to improve their hygiene practices . <p> " With my husband 's limited income and the need to focus on Inaaya's- recovery from malnutrition , it is very hard to ensure that all our children have enough to eat . Sometimes , our older boys do n't get as much food as they need or the most nutritious meals . It worries me that they might not be eating enough to grow strong and healthy . <p> " Our newborn twin daughters also have special needs , and meeting those adds to the pressure . The overall food situation for our family is very challenging , and it feels like an ongoing struggle to make sure all five children have enough to eat . As a mother , it hurts deeply to see my children go without food . " <p> Despite its relatively small population , Madagascar also had one of the highest numbers of babies born into hunger in 2024 . <p> Aina- , aged 6 months , was one of around 400,000 babies born into hunger in the island nation . Her mother , Genie- , faced difficulties caring for and feeding her daughter because of the high cost of food and lack of money . She fed Aina- , who is exclusively breastfed , only twice a day , before and after returning from work in the field . <p> " My habits had had an impact on her diet and Aina's- weight . She got progressively thinner and often felt hot and irritable , " said Genie- . <p> Save the Children taught Genie- how to feed her daughter healthily using lower-priced , locally available food as well as the importance of frequent breastfeeding . <p> Save the Children is calling on world leaders to address the root causes of acute food and nutrition insecurity including working harder to reduce conflicts , tackling the climate crisis and global inequality , and by building more resilient health , nutrition and social protection systems . <p> The child rights organisation is also calling for greater collaboration , dialogue and investment across sectors to bolster response planning and implementation , as well as our abilities to act early and prevent predictable shocks from turning into crises . <p> Notes <p> 1 For the analysis , Save the Children used data from the UN Population Prospects for 2024 and the latest country data on hunger from the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations ( FAO ) , measured by undernourishment . The most recent published FAO country data used here is up until 2021-2023 as country data up to 2022-2024 has not yet been made publicly available . Data on prevalence of undernourishment is only available for the total population . In this analysis we estimate that the share of children affected by hunger is equivalent to the average of the total population , applying undernourishment rates to the number of births in each country . This likely underestimates the true effect as we would expect that poorer communities - in most countries home to proportionally more children - are more likely to be affected by hunger . According to the analysis , more than 21.5 million children were born into hunger in 2001 . In 2018 , the number dropped to about 14.5 million but then jumped up to 15.3 million in 2019 . In 2024 , there were an estimated 18.2 million undernourished births at a minimum . <h> Using Scoop for work ? <p> Scoop is free for personal use , but you 'll need a licence for work use . This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop . Join today with plans starting from less than $3 per week , plus gain access to exclusive Pro features . 
@@119435552 <p> GENEVA ( 30 December 2024 ) -- Israel must face the consequences of its campaign to undermine the legal framework for the protection of civilians in armed conflicts , a group of independent human rights experts* said today , as the full-scale armed assault on Gaza and forced displacement of its population continues unabated . <p> " As we have repeatedly reminded Israel , international humanitarian law comprises a set of universal and binding rules to protect civilian objects and persons who are not , or are no longer , directly participating in hostilities and limits permissible means and methods of warfare , " the experts said . <p> " Rather than abide by these rules , Israel has openly defied international law time and again , inflicting maximum suffering on civilians in the occupied Palestinian territory and beyond . " <p> Citing Israel 's most egregious violations , the experts highlighted crimes against humanity including murder , torture , sexual violence , and repeated forced displacementamounting to forcible transfer , war crimes encompassing indiscriminate attacks on civilians and civilian objects , including objects indispensable to the survival of the civilian population and educational institutions and cultural heritage , the use of starvation as a weapon of war , the targeting of healthcare workers and health facilities , attacks on humanitarian workers , arbitrary restrictions on access to humanitarian aid , and attacks on journalists , collective punishment and perfidy . <p> Advertisement - scroll to continue reading <p> " Political and judicial actors must consider the totality of such acts against the entire civilian population under Israeli occupation , who are protected persons and do not constitute military objectives under international law , " the experts said . " Acts aimed at their destruction in whole or in part are genocidal . " <p> The experts were particularly alarmed over events in northern Gaza , where they said Israel had grievously violated its obligations as an Occupying Power . <p> " Indiscriminate attacks , including on shelters for displaced persons and the Kamal Adwan Hospital and its vicinity , and the intensification of siege conditions on northern Gaza for the last three months run contrary to Israel 's legal duty to ensure the protection of the civilian population , " the experts said . " We are disturbed that this siege , coupled with expanding evacuation orders , appears intended to permanently displace the local population as a precursor to Gaza 's annexation in further violation of international law . " <p> " The International Court of Justice has recognised the unlawfulness of and made clear that Israel must unconditionally end its ongoing presence in the occupied Palestinian territory and imposed binding provisional measures on Israel to prevent the commission of genocide in Gaza , while Israel 's Prime Minister and former Minister of Defence arewanted by the International Criminal Court , " the experts said . " Nonetheless , Israel continues to face no real consequences , largely due to protection offered by its allies , who have gone so far as to join Israel in delegitimising international institutions and besmirching Special Procedures mandate-holders . " <p> The experts reiterated the urgency of allowing independent and thorough investigations of serious violations of international law . <p> " Israel 's continued impunity sends a dangerous message suggesting that parties to other conflicts around the world need not comply with their obligations under international humanitarian law , " they said . " We can not afford to lose the force of the multilateral system . Israel and its leaders must be held accountable . " <h> Using Scoop for work ? <p> Scoop is free for personal use , but you 'll need a licence for work use . This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop . Join today with plans starting from less than $3 per week , plus gain access to exclusive Pro features . 
@@119435625 <p> " Repeated hostilities in and around hospitals have obliterated the healthcare system in northern Gaza , putting civilians at an unacceptably grave risk of going without lifesaving care , " the ICRC said in a statement . <p> It called for the respect and protection of medical facilities in line with international humanitarian law . <p> " This protection is a legal obligation and a moral imperative to preserve human life , " it added , saying hospitals were a lifeline for those sick or wounded in conflict . <p> The Al-Awda Hospital , previously supported by the ICRC with supplies , was now absorbing more pressure as one of the few functioning medical facilities in northern Gaza , the Geneva-based organisation said . <p> " The Kamal Adwan and Indonesian hospitals are now completely inoperable . For months , these medical facilities have struggled to provide care for patients as ongoing hostilities have damaged hospitals and endangered or harmed staff , patients and civilians . " <p> Israel 's military said on Sunday that its forces had killed about 20 Palestinian militants and apprehended " 240 terrorists " in the raid , calling it one of its " largest operations " conducted in the territory . <p> " The increasingly dangerous situation comes in addition to more than a year of insufficient provision of medical equipment and supplies , fuel , food and specialised healthcare capacities . " <p> The ICRC said it remained committed to supporting healthcare services wherever possible , including doing what it could to ensure the protection of medical responders and civilian access to healthcare , as well as facilitating movements of medical personnel and equipment . 
@@119435844 <p> Within the last few days Israel has renewed attacks on Gaza 's hospitals as it tries to drive the entire Palestinian population from northern Gaza in a massive ethnic cleansing operation called the General 's plan . <p> Palestinians have faced 76 years of brutal Israeli occupation , ethnic cleansing , apartheid and genocide and have repeatedly called for BDS ( Boycott , Divestment and Sanctions ) against Israel to bring international pressure for change . This means ending sporting , cultural , economic and diplomatic relations with Israel . <p> " Apartheid is a crime against humanity wherever it is practiced . Just as we protested apartheid South African players at sports tournaments in the past we are protesting an Israel player today " <p> " Politics and sport are always strongly linked and Glushko 's presence is part of Israel 's strategy to normalise its racism and apartheid against Palestinians . New Zealanders will have none of it " <p> ASB itself is already morally crippled with its investments in companies such as Motorola which are complicit in building and maintaining illegal Israeli settlements in the occupied Palestinian territories . Now it is helping to normalise Israeli genocide by having Lina Glushko compete . <p> PSNA has previously written to the government asking it to suspend all visas for Israelis who have served in the Israeli military from coming to New Zealand . We have not yet had a response . 
@@119435855 <p> Attacks:There are no safe places for the militarily-dominated population in Gaza , who find themselves subjected to airstrikes and other missile attackson buildings , homes and many essentialfacilities , as well as constant gunfire and invasions by Israeli forces.The Israeli Navy continues to fire missiles , targeting facilities and buildings along the entire Gaza shoreline . <p> Victims:30more people have been killedwithin the past 48 hours , bringing the total number killed in Gaza since 7 October2023 to at least45,514 . Another 99have been wounded , bringing that total to 108,189 . The daily average number of men , women and children killed in Gaza is at least 101and , thatof those injured , is nowmore than240 . <p> ' No Civilians . Everyone 's a Terrorist ' <p> IDF Soldiers Expose Arbitrary Killings and <p> Rampant Lawlessness in Gaza 's Netzarim Corridor <p> ' Of 200 bodies , only 10 were confirmed as Hamas members ' : IDF soldiers who served in Gaza tell Haaretz that anyone who crosses an imaginary line in the contested Netzarim corridor is shot to death , with every Palestinian casualty counting as a terrorist -- even if they were just a child.The line appears on no map and exists in no official military order . While senior Israel Defence Forces officials might deny its existence , in the heart of the Gaza Strip , north of the Netzarim corridor , nothing is more real . " The forces in the field call it ' the line of dead bodies ' " a commander in Division 252 tells Haaretz . " After shootings , bodies are not collected , attracting packs of dogs who come to eat them . In Gaza , people know that wherever you see these dogs , that 's where you must not go . " <p> The Netzarim corridor , a seven-kilometre-wide strip of land , stretches from near Kibbutz Be'eri to the Mediterranean coast . The IDF has emptied this area of Palestinian residents and demolished their homes to construct military roads and military positions.While Palestinians are officially prohibited from entering , the reality is more severe than a simple exclusion zone . " It 's military whitewashing , " explains a senior officer in Division 252 , who has served three reserve rotations in Gaza . " The division commander designated this area as a ' kill zone . ' Anyone who enters is shot . " Read more : <p> Since midnight on 07 October 2023 , Occupation forces have been imposing a complete closure around the whole of the West Bank , **26;2019;TOOLONG even permit -- holders ) from entering both the city of Jerusalem as well as Israel , otherwise than for especially -- negotiated exceptions . Permanent military checkpoints impose severe travel restrictions within the Occupied West Bank . <p> Home invasions : Jerusalem -- dawn , Israeli Occupation forces raided the town of Kafr Aqab and searched a number of homes . <p> Home invasion and forced personal demolition : Jerusalem -- the Israeli Occupation forced a resident , Ibrahim Mashahra , to destroy his home in the Jabal al-Mukabir neighbourhood -- or otherwise be forced to pay an extortionate sum to the Israeli Occupation demolition squads , who would be sent in to do it . <p> Israeli Army armed robbery and agricultural sabotage : Tubas -- Israeli Occupation forces seized a tractor belonging to a farmer , Mufdi Sawafta , in the al-Farisiya area of the North Jordan Valley , in order to prevent him from working his land . <p> Leslie Bravery is a Londoner with vivid World War Two memories of the Nazi blitz on his home town . In 1947/1948 His father explained to him what was happening to the Palestinians thus : " Any ideology or political movement that creates refugees in the process of realising its ambitions must be inhuman and should be opposed and condemned as unacceptable . " What followed confirmed this assessment of the Zionist entity a hundredfold . Now a retired flamenco guitarist , with a lifelong interest in the tragedy of what happened to the Palestinian people , he tries to publicise their plight . Because the daily injustices they suffer barely get a mention in the mainstream news media , Leslie edits/compiles a daily newsletter , In Occupied Palestine , for the Palestine Human Rights Campaign . These days , to preserve his sanity , he enjoys taking part in a drama group whenever possible ! 
@@119435890 <h> Indian Newslink <h> Changing global interests in an unstable Middle East <p> Limits of the unpopular interventions of Russia and the United States are becoming apparent in the Middle East ( US President-Elect Donald Trump with Russia 's Vladimir Putin ( Photo www.kremlin.ru Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 ) <p> Omair Anas Ankara , Turkey , December 31 , 2024 <p> The fall of the Bashar Al-Assad regime in Syria shows that no country in the Middle East has a predictable future . <p> Almost all of them lack sustainable models of governance which could lend them political stability without resorting to excessive force . <p> The contours of the emerging Middle East in 2025 do not look very bright . Whether or not there is a domino effect of the fall of Assad , the ground exists in most Arab countries for disruptive crises . <p> The Gaza war has temporarily allowed Israel to grab more Palestinian land . However , it has also strengthened anti-regime sentiments in the region , for being mute spectators to the taking down of Syria , one of the most important countries in the region . <p> The external powers , the United States and Russia have already seen the limits of their unpopular interventions . <p> The Islamist political forces expelled from Egypt and the Gulf now have a ' homeland ' in Syria . This is no less than a political earthquake in the region , which was relentlessly purging the Muslim Brotherhood and its allies . <p> The Arab governments are left with fewer choices and limited time to speed up political and economic reforms to calm down their unemployed , excluded and angry youth . <p> Collateral damage of Assad 's fall <p> The events that took place in 2024 in the Middle East would have normally taken decades to come about . With iron-clad Western support , Israel 's occupation of Palestine has effectively neutralised any possibility of a two-state solution . <p> The Israeli occupation was a work in progress , but the abrupt departure of the Assad regime came as a bombshell to the region 's ongoing model of stability and continuity . <p> The region makes for the most complex geopolitics in the world , thanks to its being the battleground of three of the world 's major civilizations and their modern avatars , i.e. Islamism , Zionism and the Crusade ( meaning the West ) . <p> The term ' Middle East ' was needed once the British and French colonial order was installed in the region , replacing the moribund Ottoman provincial system after the First World War . New boundaries were drawn , new identities imagined and new states propped up to form a unique regional order called the Middle East . <p> While many post-colonial states in Asia and Africa gradually joined what the West says is a democratic , secular , globalised international order , the Middle East had to perform a bigger duty : ensuring an uninterrupted energy supply to the world . <p> The interruptions , however , never came from outside ; it was always internal forces that challenged the local dictators . <p> From the East to the West , the industrialised and newly industrialised countries sacrificed democracy in the Middle East for stability and energy supply . <p> Despite wars , rebellions , economic crises , and waves of terrorism , the region resisted the change and transformation towards democratic and inclusive governance . It continues to be governed by an unelected tribal , military or sectarian minority . <p> Stability trumps change <p> Experts call it Middle Eastern exceptionalism , which supposes that the region has effectively resisted every wave of change and democratic transformation . The resilience and stability of the authoritarian regimes in the region have always surprised scholars . <p> Policymakers in the West define the Middle East primarily in the context of the security of energy supply and maritime routes , keeping the stability of the regimes there as their top priority . This leads to defining all anti-regime voices as terrorism and reducing regional politics to a battle between radicalism and stability . <p> The real successor(s) to the Ottoman Empire should have established a state system where state-society relations were based on a sustainable social contract . <p> Instead , the successor states relied heavily on rents and the use of the big stick to buy legitimacy and loyalty . In this endeavour , they received military support from their major energy buyers , the US and Europe . <p> The region faces the challenge of a widening gap between social aspirations and political systems . As of now , the region is unprepared and unequipped for the changes and opportunities that the global economy and the fourth industrial revolution have brought to many developing countries . <p> For example , the post-Arab Spring nations , Egypt , Tunisia , and Syria have the lowest numbers of STEM ( Science , Technology , Engineering , and Mathematics ) graduates , according to a World Economic Forum report . <p> The winds of global change , however , will not leave the Middle East unaffected . <p> Changing global interests <p> As the US is no longer dependent on Persian Gulf oil , the Asian economies are the new customers , it has little incentive left in ensuring regional security except for Israel . <p> The US and the Gulf nations have been in discussions to find a new mechanism , preferably through the Abraham Accords , which will ensure Arab recognition of Israel without allowing a Palestinian state . <p> The regional economy is in search of non-oil sectors as oil revenues have stagnated . <p> The efforts to diversify the region 's economy require rationalising its governance by welcoming market logic and youth participation in a competitive market . The older model of securing legitimacy and loyalty by distributing rents and promoting sectarian religiosity is no longer tenable . <p> The Gulf nations are trying to reduce the number of immigrant workers by imposing new taxes and localising the workforce . As a result , remittances from Arab immigrants working in the Gulf nations are eitherdeclining or have been stagnant for some time . <p> According to the World Bank , " remittances to the Middle East and North Africa fell by 3.8% to US$ 64 billion in 2022 after posting strong growth of 12.2% in 2021 . " The decline of remittances , for example , can deepen the economic crisis in Sudan , Egypt and Jordan . <p> The changing political economy of the Gulf countries , the declining American dependency on Gulf energy , and consequently , America 's declining interests in the Gulf 's security require the region to look beyond its traditional security mechanism and find alternatives . <p> This is where China , India , and Russia and their economic groups -- the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation and BRICS -- have found a new interest in the region . <p> In a rapidly changing political economy , with popular social media as the only available political space , violence and radicalism may become new and dangerous expressions of the deepening mistrust between the state and society . <p> Omair Anas teaches International Relations at Ankara Yildirim Beyazit University , Turkey . The above article and picture , which appeared on the website 360info has been published under Creative Commons . <p> To provide the best experiences , we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information . Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site . Not consenting or withdrawing consent , may adversely affect certain features and functions . <p> FunctionalFunctional Always active <p> The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user , or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network . <p> PreferencesPreferences <p> The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user . <p> StatisticsStatistics <p> The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes . Without a subpoena , voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider , or additional records from a third party , information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone can not usually be used to identify you . <p> MarketingMarketing <p> The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising , or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes . 
@@119442867 <p> A Palestine solidarity group has protested over the participation of Israeli tennis player Lina Glushko in New Zealand 's ASB Tennis Classic in Auckland this week , saying such competition raises serious concerns about the normalisation of systemic oppression and apartheid . <p> The Palestine Forum of New Zealand said in a statement that by taking part in the event Glushko , a former Israeli Defence Forces ( IDF ) soldier , was sending a " troubling message that undermines the values of justice , equality , and human rights " . <p> Since the court ruling in July , Israel has intensified attacks on the civilian population in Gaza and their natural resources and infrastructure , including hospitals and health clinics . <p> " Welcoming Israeli athletes to Aotearoa is not a neutral act . It normalises the systemic injustices perpetrated by the Israeli state against Palestinians , " said Maher Nazzal of the Palestine Forum . <p> " Just as the international sports community united to oppose South Africa 's apartheid in the 20th century , we must now stand firm against Israel 's ongoing violations of international law and human rights . " <p> Implements apartheid policies He said former soldier Glushko symbolised a regime that : <p> Implements apartheid policies : As documented by leading organisations such as Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch ; <p> Operates under leadership accused of war crimes : With an International Criminal Court ( ICC ) warrant issued against Israeli officials ; and <p> Continues its illegal occupation of Palestine : In direct violation of international law and countless United Nations resolutions . <p> The statement said : " While sports often aim to transcend politics , they can not be isolated from the realities of injustice and oppression . <p> " By welcoming athletes representing an apartheid regime , we risk ignoring the voices of the oppressed and allowing sports to be used as a tool for whitewashing human rights abuses . <p> " We urge the international and local sports community to remain consistent in their principles by refusing to host representatives of regimes that perpetuate apartheid . <p> " The global boycott of South African athletes during apartheid proved that sports can be a powerful force for change . The same principle must apply today . " 
@@119471779 <p> The international community must respond to the escalating human rights violations targeting healthcare workers and patients at Kamal Adwan Hospital in the besieged Gaza Strip . Reports of attacks on this vital medical facility highlight grave breaches of international humanitarian law and the rights of civilians in conflict zones . <p> Kamal Adwan Hospital , a lifeline for tens of thousands of people , has been subjected to direct assaults , obstructing critical medical services . Healthcare workers , striving to save lives under relentless pressure , face life-threatening dangers daily . Patients , including vulnerable children and the elderly , are being denied their fundamental right to safe and accessible medical care . <p> In recent weeks , eyewitness accounts and verified reports have revealed : <p> The deliberate targeting of ambulances and medical personnel en route to assist the injured . <p> Psychological trauma inflicted on patients and healthcare providers due to repeated threats and attacks . <p> These actions contravene the Geneva Conventions , which unequivocally protect medical facilities and personnel in times of war and conflict . The targeting of healthcare facilities is a war crime and an aUront to human dignity . <p> We call on the international community to take immediate and decisive action by : <p> 2 . Demanding accountability : Pressure must be exerted on those responsible for these violations to face justice . <p> 3 . Supporting the healthcare system : Immediate humanitarian aid , including medical supplies and equipment , must be delivered to Kamal Adwan Hospital and other aUected facilities . <p> 4 . Ensuring protection : The international community must push for mechanisms to guarantee the safety of healthcare workers and patients in conflict zones . <p> This crisis is a test of our collective humanity . The lives of the innocent should never be collateral damage . We urge all stakeholders to stand in solidarity with the healthcare workers and patients of Kamal Adwan Hospital and to demand an end to these unconscionable violations . <h> Using Scoop for work ? <p> Scoop is free for personal use , but you 'll need a licence for work use . This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop . Join today with plans starting from less than $3 per week , plus gain access to exclusive Pro features . 
@@119471780 <h> Gaza : Hospitals Closed , Aid Denied , Civilians Trapped <p> A stark example of this escalation was highlighted by the Director-General of the World Health Organization ( WHO ) , Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus , who confirmed that the Kamal Adwan hospital in North Gaza is now out of service . <p> On 27 December , the facility was raided , its patients and staff were forcibly evacuated , and its director detained . <p> The humanitarian fallout has been severe . Ten patients were transferred to the Indonesian Hospital , which itself has since ceased functioning due to a lack of water , electricity , and sanitation . <p> Of these patients , four were arrested by Israeli forces at a checkpoint , leaving the remaining seven patients , 15 caregivers , and health workers stranded in deplorable conditions . <p> Obstacles to humanitarian aid <p> The delivery of aid to affected areas has faced relentless obstacles . <p> UN Associate Spokesperson Florencia Soto Ni ? o-Martinez noted that over 150 attempts to access North Gaza since October had been denied by Israeli authorities . <p> Even missions initially approved have encountered severe delays . Between 27 and 29 December , three out of four aid missions to the area were blocked . <p> Advertisement - scroll to continue reading <p> One mission succeeded on Sunday , delivering basic medical supplies , food , and water to survivors evacuated from Kamal Adwan . <p> However , the situation remains dire . OCHAemphasised that it should not require breaking a siege to help survivors in critical need . <p> " Aid workers must be granted safe and unhindered access to assist people wherever they are , " she said . <p> Looting and supply shortages <p> Armed looting has further exacerbated the crisis , with two incidents over the past three days in southern Gaza targeting dozens of truckloads of supplies . <p> These incidents not only reduce the availability of desperately needed aid but also expose aid workers to grave risks . <h> Using Scoop for work ? <p> Scoop is free for personal use , but you 'll need a licence for work use . This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop . Join today with plans starting from less than $3 per week , plus gain access to exclusive Pro features . 
@@119471784 <p> Stats claimed GDP fell 1.1% in the June quarterfollowed by 1% in the September quarter . But based on data from Massey University 's GDPlive forecast tracking tool the real fall in GDP for the whole of 2024 was O.721% . <p> According to GDPlive data , the GDP for the September quarter was -0.539% and inflation is 2.03% . If Wellington used that data , then the Reserve Bank 's Official Cash Rate could be 3.6% instead of an economy-damaging 4.25% . <p> Professor Christoph Schumacher and his team at Massey University have developed a world-leading AI tool to determine today 's GDP and inflation , not three months out of date . The data is accurate and posted on their website https : //gdplive.net . <p> We can tell there was no " deep recession " . In September unemployment was 4.8% . In the Global Financial Crisis unemployment reached 6.9% . <p> It is GDP per capita that has fallen . That was down 1.2% during the September 2024 quarter . <p> I predicted that Finance Minister Nicola Willis ' managerialism would fail . The coalition is spending and borrowing more than Labour . <p> Willis will not end corporate welfare and middle-class transfers . Her claim that in the future the Budget will balance has no credibility . It is not if , but when , New Zealand 's credit rating is downgraded . <p> I forecasted that Labour would not hold a review as to why it failed in government . Instead , the party would swallow the myth that if Labour had advocated a wealth tax Labour would have been re-elected . <p> Instead of developing policy to solve real problems , the opposition will spend its efforts protesting a bill that it knows will not pass . <p> Our political parties in 2025 will pretend that the tax and spending model is not broken . Ageing demographics are blowing out tax-based health and superannuation budgets . <p> Labour will not take the opportunity to advance instead of tax-based , savings-based , health and super . <p> Last year I predicted that the Labour/ Green/ Te Pati Maori coalition with no practical solutions just a promise to " tax the rich " is even odds to win the next election . There is no reason to change this prediction . <p> When looking at the world in 2025 remember no one predicted that the Syrian regime would collapse in a week . <p> Authoritarian regimes always look stable until suddenly they are not . Any one of the world 's dictatorships could collapse into anarchy . <p> China is our biggest trading partner . The Chinese economy is in trouble . There is a purge of senior generals in the People 's Liberation Army . I do not know what it means but what happens in China will affect us . <p> Germany will elect a new government . The new UK Labour government is clueless but democratic countries do not collapse into anarchy . <p> America 's checks and balances will restrain President Trump . He is a lame-duck president . The Republican Congress will not be a rubber stamp . Ironically Trump 's handpicked conservative Supreme Court may deliver the biggest check on Trump governing by presidential degree . <p> There will be external shocks in 2025 from places we can not predict . I said that neither Gaza nor Ukraine would be solved in 2024 . I think exhaustion will end both conflicts . <p> Climate change will accelerate . <p> AI is the most radical change in human history . <p> Whole industries and occupations are obsolete . Linear television is a zombie business . <p> A Kiwi firm has developed GPS-controlled collars so cows need no fences . The AI monitors the cows ' health to track how much the cow is eating . <p> AI can solve the GP shortage by us all having our own AI doctor . <p> Technology exists for every pupil to have individual tutoring from their own avatar tutor . <p> Only our imagination limits the use of AI . <p> In 2024 Wellington ignored AI-generated GDP and inflation data . <p> In 2025 our centralised bureaucracy will again be unable or unwilling to utilise the full potential of AI. 
@@119471835 <h> Share this article <p> After the brutal October 7 , 2023 , attack by Hamas , the Israel Defence Forces deluged Gaza with bombs , drawing on a database painstakingly compiled through the years that detailed home addresses , tunnels , and other infrastructure critical to the militant group . <p> But then the target bank ran low . To maintain the war 's breakneck pace , the IDF turned to an elaborate artificial intelligence tool called Habsora - or " the Gospel " - which could quickly generate hundreds of additional targets . <p> The use of AI to rapidly refill the IDF 's target bank allowed the military to continue its campaign uninterrupted , according to two people familiar with the operation . <p> It is an example of how the decade-long effort to place advanced AI tools at the centre of the IDF 's intelligence operations has contributed to the violence of Israel 's 14-month war in Gaza . <p> The IDF has broadcast the existence of these programmes , which constitute what some experts consider the most advanced military AI initiative ever to be deployed . <p> But a Washington Post investigation reveals previously unreported details of the inner workings of the machine-learning programme , and the secretive , decade-long history of its development . <p> The investigation also reveals a fierce debate within the highest echelons of the military , starting years before October 7 , about the quality of intelligence gathered by AI , whetherthe technologies ' recommendations garnered sufficient scrutiny , and if the focus on AI weakened the IDF 's intelligence capabilities . <p> Some internal critics argue that AI has been a behind-the-scenes force accelerating the death toll in Gaza , which has claimed 45,000 lives , more than half of whom were women and children , according to the Gaza health officials . <p> The Gaza Health Ministry does not differentiate between civilians and combatants.In a statement , the IDF said the ministry is controlled by Hamas and its data " is replete with inconsistencies and false determinations " . <p> People familiar with the IDF 's practices , including soldiers who have served in the war , say Israel 's military has significantly expanded the number of acceptable civilian casualties from historic norms . <p> Some argue this shift is enabled by automation , which has made it easier to speedily generate large quantities of targets , including of low-level militants who participated in the October 7 attacks . <p> This report draws on interviews with more than a dozen people familiar with the systems , many of whom spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss the details of top-secret national security topics , as well as documents obtained by the Post . <p> " What 's happening in Gaza is a forerunner of a broader shift in how war is being fought , " said Steven Feldstein , senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment , who researches the use of AI in war . <p> He noted that the IDF appeared to have lowered its threshold for the acceptable civilian casualty rate during the Gaza war . <p> " Combine that with the acceleration these systems offer - as well as the questions of accuracy - and the end result is a higher death count than was previously imagined in war . " <p> The IDF said claims that its use of AI endangers lives are " off the mark " . <p> " The more ability you have to compile pieces of information effectively , the more accurate the process is , " the IDF said in a statement to the Post . " If anything , these tools have minimised collateral damage and raised the accuracy of the human-led process . " <p> The IDF requiresan officer to sign off on any recommendations from its " big data processing " systems , according to an intelligence official . The Gospel and other AI tools do not make decisions autonomously , the person added . <p> The overhaul of the IDF 's vaunted signals intelligence division , known as Unit 8200 , has intensified since 2020 under current leader Yossi Sariel , transforming the division 's work and intelligence-gathering practices . <p> Sariel championed development of the Gospel , a machine-learning software built atop hundreds of predictive algorithms , which allows soldiers to briskly query a vast trove of data known within the military as " the pool " . <p> Reviewing reams of data from intercepted communications , satellite footage , and social networks , the algorithms spit out the co-ordinates of tunnels , rockets , and other military targets . Recommendations that survive vetting by an intelligence analyst are placed in the target bank by a senior officer . <p> Using the software 's image recognition , soldiers could unearth subtle patterns , including minuscule changes in years of satellite footage of Gaza suggesting that Hamas had buried a rocket launcher or dug a new tunnel on agricultural land , compressing aweek 's worth of work into 30 minutes , a former military leader who worked on the systems said . <p> Another machine-learningtool , called Lavender , uses a percentage score to predict how likely a Palestinian is to be a member of a militant group , allowing the IDF to quickly generate a large volume of potential human targets . <p> Other algorithmic programs have names like Alchemist , Depth of Wisdom , Hunter and Flow , the latter of which allows soldiers to query various datasets and is previously unreported . <p> Several of the division 's officers have long held concerns that the machine- learning technology , which speeds decision-making , concealed underlying flaws . <p> Reports delivered to senior leadership did not indicate how intelligence was derived - whether from human analysts or AI systems - making it difficult for officials to evaluate a finding , according to one former senior military official . <p> An internal audit found some AI systems for processing the Arabic language had inaccuracies , failing to understand key slang words and phrases , according tothe two former senior military leaders . <p> The IDF 's machine-learning technology also predicts how many civilians might be affected by attacks , helping Israel comply with a key tenet of international law . <p> Inthe Gaza war , estimates of how many civilians might be harmed in a bombing raid are derived through data-mining software , using image recognition tools to analyse drone footage alongside smartphones pinging cell towers to tally the number of civilians in an area , two of the people said . <p> In 2014 , the IDF 's acceptable civilian casualty ratio was one civilian for a high-level terrorist , said Tal Mimran , a former legal adviser to the IDF . <p> In the Gaza war , the number has grown to about 15 civilians for one low-level Hamas member and " exponentially higher " for mid- and high-level members , according to the Israeli human rights organisation Breaking the Silence , citing numerous testimonies from IDF soldiers . The New York Times reported the number as 20 earlier this week . <p> The IDF says its assessments of collateral damage adhere to the Law of Armed Conflict , which mandates that nations differentiate between civilians and combatants and take precautions to protect lives . <p> Some proponents of Israel 's use of the technology argue that aggressively deploying innovations such as AI is essential for the survival of a small country facing determined and powerful enemies . <p> " Technological superiority is what keeps Israel safe , " said Blaise Misztal , vice-president for policy at the Jewish Institute for National Security of America , who was briefed by the IDF 's intelligence division on its AI capabilities in 2021 . <p> " The faster Israel is able to identify enemy capabilities and take them off the battlefield , the shorter a war is going to be , and it will have fewer casualties . " <p> In addition to concerns over the quality of AI-derived intelligence , the use of the technology has triggered a divisive paradigm shift within the IDF . <p> It has usurped an intelligence culturethat has historically prized individual reasoning for one that prioritised technological prowess , according to three of the people . Low-level analysts had previously been empowered to bypass their immediate bosses and issue direct warnings to senior commanders . <p> Under the command of Sariel and other intelligence leaders , 8200 has restructured to emphasise engineers , cutting Arabic language specialists , removing several leaders considered resistant to AI , and disbanding some groups not focused on data-mining technology , according to three of the people . <p> By October 7,60% of the unit 's employees were working in engineering and tech roles , twice as many as a decade earlier , according to one of the people . <p> The IDF 's intelligence practices are under scrutiny . <p> Genocide charges against Israel brought to The Hague by South Africa question whether crucial decisions about bombing targets in Gaza were made by software , an investigation that could hasten a global debate about the role of AI technology in warfare . <p> And in Israel , Sarielsaid in September that he plans to step down from the IDF under increased questioning of the intelligence failures that led to the October 7 attack . <p> Two former senior commanders said they believe the intense focus on AI was a significant reason why Israel was caught off-guard that day . <p> The department overemphasised technological findings and made it difficult for analysts to raise warnings to senior commanders . <p> " This was an AI factory , " said one former military leader . " The man was replaced by the machine . " <h> The ' human bottleneck ' <p> Sariel , through the IDF , declined requests for comment . He did not respond to requests for comment sent to his personal email . <p> In 2019 , two yearsbefore taking over as intelligence commander , Sariel spent asabbatical year at the United States National Defence University , a Pentagon-funded institution in Washington that trains national security leaders from all over the world . <p> A professor at NDU , who spoke to the Post on the condition of anonymity , said he and Sariel shared a radical vision of AI in the battlefield , arguing that Israel should blaze ahead of more cautious US allies . <p> " Yossi was in this world of , ' this thing is moving fast , faster than anybody realises , and we better get everybody on board ' , " the professor said . <p> A book Sariel wrote during the sabbatical and published under a pen name lays out a vision for infusing national security establishments with automation . <p> In " The Human-Machine Team : How to Create Synergy Between Human and Artificial Intelligence , " Sariel describes how the actions of lone-wolf terrorists could be predicted in advance by unleashing algorithms to analyse phone locations , social media posts , drone footage , and intercepted private communications . <p> In Sariel 's expansive vision , AI would touch all aspects of defence , in both peacetime and war . By using AI surveillance technologies , Israel 's borders would become " smart borders " . <p> By collecting digital trails , armies could build advanced " target banks " with names , locations and behaviour patterns of thousands of suspects . These technologies could replace 80% of intelligence analysts that specialise in foreign languages in just five years , he concluded . <p> Sariel returned to Israel brimming with plans to bring his ideas to fruition . In the summer of 2020 , he was appointed by Aviv Kohavi , then the Army 's chief of staff and a huge proponent of AI tools , to take over the 8200 unit , the IDF 's largest and most prestigious division . <p> Former commanders huddled to share their worries about the " religious attitude toward AI " developing in the unit under Sariel 's tenure , two people said . <p> Kohavi declined to comment . <p> When Sariel officially became commander , in February 2021 , 8200 had been experimenting with data science for more than seven years , five former military leaders said , contending with an explosion of digital communications that provided a gold mine for national security agencies . <p> The elite unit had developed a reputation for collecting an array of DMs , private messages , emails , call logs , and other online breadcrumbs using in-house cyber technologies considered the best in the world . <p> At the time , intelligence units typically did n't share information with soldiers on the battlefield , said Ben Caspit , an Israeli columnist for Al-Monitor , who is writing a book about the 8200 unit . <p> To prevent such silos , the Mossad , Israel 's spy agency , and 8200 developed a database - " the pool " - to house all military intelligence in one repository . <p> As a " big data " boom got under way in Silicon Valley , Israeli engineers had begun to experiment with off-the-shelf data mining tools that could translate and analyse Arabic and Farsi . The unit 's leaders debated whether to contract experts , such as the Silicon Valley data-mining firm Palantir , or build their own software . <p> Thelatter approach won out . But the technologies , while widely recognised as promising , had limitations . <p> Sometimes the sheer volume of intercepts overwhelmed8200 's analysts . For example , Hamas operatives often used the word " batikh , " or watermelon , as code for a bomb , one of the people familiar with the efforts said . <p> But the system was n't smart enough to understand the difference between a conversation about an actual watermelon and a coded conversation among terrorists . <p> " If you pick up a thousand conversations a day , do I really want to hear about every watermelon in Gaza ? " the person said . <p> As he moved into senior leadership , Sariel sped upthe data-mining efforts . He championed a broad reorganisation that divided intelligence efforts into what the commanders referred to as " AI factories " located in a newly created " targets centre Al-Monitor " at the Nevatim Airbase in the south of Israel . <p> Each division designed hundreds of purpose-built algorithms and machine- learning technologies , sharing software predictions across the intelligence chain of command . <p> Residents of the southern Lebanese village of Derdghaya , stand among the rubble of a Melkite Greek Catholic church that was hit by an Israeli air strike . Photo / Getty Images <p> The military invested in new cloud technologiesthat processed algorithms quickly , in preparation for an anticipated conflict with Hezbollah on Israel 's northern border . <p> An app called Hunter allowed soldiers on the battlefield to directly access information . It built another mobile app called Z-Tube where IDF soldiers in battle could review live video of areas that they were about to enter , and another called Map It , which provided real-time estimates of potential civilian casualties in a specific areathat had been evacuated . <p> The 8200 had long maintained a target bank : a list of precise GPS co-ordinates of Hamas and Hezbollah infrastructure and humantargets , geolocated to a specific tunnel or apartment building floor . <p> Maintaining the target bank was **25;521;TOOLONG were required to confirm their findingswith at least two independent sources and to refresh the information continuously , according to three peoplefamiliar with the programme . <p> Before officially entering the bank , a proposed target had to be " validated " by a senior officer and a military lawyer to ensure it would comply with international law , five people said . <p> Intelligence leaders , led by Sariel , believed machine-learning could dramatically speed up that painstaking process , said two of the people . <p> " It took the IDI intelligence directorate years to achieve a bank of those kinds of targets , but what happens if you trained AI to imitate the work of the targeting officer ? " said another former military official familiar with the new target formation process . <p> The effort involved collecting billions of signals from sensors placed on drones , F-35 aircraft , and subterranean seismic monitors , as well as from intercepted communications . <p> These were paired with databases that housed phone numbers , social media profiles , known contacts , chat groups and internal documents . The information was fed into software that could read patterns and make predictions about who and what could be targeted . <p> An image recognition algorithm was trained to search thousands of satellite photographs to identify a specific type of fabric that Hamas militants used to conceal digging for a buried rocket . The tools compressed a week of work into 30 minutes , the former military officer said . <p> " They really did believe with all the sensors they had all around and above Gaza , I wo n't say total informational awareness , but that they had a very good picture of what was happening inside , " said Misztal , who leads an organisation focused on security co-operation between the US and Israel . He noted that the military emphasised its rigorous systems for checking targeting recommendations during his 2021 briefing . <p> Lavender , an algorithmic program developed in 2020 , pored over data to produce lists of potential Hamas and Islamic Jihad militants , giving each person a score estimating their likelihood to be a member , three people familiar with the systems told the Post . <p> Factors that could raise a person 's score included being in a WhatsApp group with a known militant , switching addresses and phone numbers frequently or being named in Hamas files , the people said . <p> Lavender 's existence and details about its scoring system were first reported by +972 , an Israeli-Palestinian news site . <p> Estimates from the various algorithms fed into the umbrella system , Gospel , which could be queried by intelligence analysts . <p> Some of the department 's leaders were worried about the accuracy of these algorithms . One audit of a language-processing technology revealed that the software prediction was not as accurate as a human officer would have been , according to two of the people . <p> Others were worried that predictions from the software were being given too much weight . <p> Typically , the research division would produce daily intelligence reports for senior commanders to review potential targets . But though an individual analyst could double-click to see the information that led to the prediction , senior commanders were not informed whether a recommendation was derived through an algorithm or through human sourcing . <p> " Everything was treated as the same , " another former senior official said . " I 'm not even sure the person preparing the report knew the difference between the pieces of information . " <p> Two former senior military leaders told the Post the emphasis on technology eroded 8200 's " culture of warning " , where even low-level analysts could easily brief top commanders about concerns . <p> This shift , they added , is a significant reason Israel was surprised by the October 7 attack : an experienced female analyst who had surfaced Hamas ' battlefield plans for breaking into Israel 's borders was unable to get a meeting with the unit 's top commanders in time . <p> " The bottom line is , you ca n't replace the guy who screams , ' Listen , this is dangerous ' , " with all the advanced AI technologies in the world , " said Caspit , the Israeli journalist who has interviewed every living 8200 commander for his book . " This was the hubris that infected the entire unit . " <p> In 2023 , the Army 's just-retired chief of staff , Kohavi , bragged to a media outlet that the new AI systems gave the IDF a sophisticated real-time intelligence apparatus " akin to the movie The Matrix " . <p> Before the Gospel , analysts could produce 50 new targets in Gaza per year to put into the target bank . " Once the machine was activated , " he said , it generated 100 targets per day . <p> In his book , Sariel argued that AI would be especially useful in wartime , when it could speed up target formation and " blast open " the " human bottleneck " that slowed everything down . <p> In June 2021 , Israel had its first chance to unleash the new algorithm-powered target bank . As an 11-day war broke out between Israel and Hamas , the IDF used data science to hit 450 targets , including a Hamas squad missile commander and one of the group 's anti-tank missile units , according to a talk an 8200 commander gave at Tel Aviv University . <p> Senior leaders seized the moment as a promotional opportunity to discuss the AI revolution taking place at Nevatim , and inside 8200 headquarters just north of Tel Aviv . All the senior commanders " wanted to talk about was ' the world 's first AI war ' , " Misztal said . <h> A target factory on overdrive <p> International Humanitarian Law requires warring nations to balance the anticipated military advantage of an attack with the expected collateral damage to civilians , known as proportionality or the " reasonable military commander " standard . <p> The treaties , which Israel has only partially ratified , are silent on artificial intelligence . The military 's intelligence data processing " meets the international law definition for a lawful target , " the IDF said in a statement this northern summer . <p> By Israel 's own admission , AI has played a big part in the targeting process in Gaza . Within days of the October 7 attacks , US-manufactured 900kg Mark 80 munitions soon rained onto the territory . <p> In a November 2 , 2023 , press release , the IDF announced that Gospel had helped it bomb 12,000 targets in Gaza . <p> Set to dramatic music and a video of buildings exploding , the release touted " a first-of-its-kind collaboration " in which intelligence from the AI target factory was being fed in real time to forces on the ground , in the air and at sea - enabling hundreds of attacks to be " carried out in an instant " . <p> Adam Raz , an Israeli historian who has interviewed soldiers and commanders about 8200 's use of AI , said he calculated that the IDF was hitting roughly two targets per minute at the height of the bombing - what he called an " astonishing " rate . <p> One intelligence officer told the Post that he witnessed the IDF using AI to cut corners to make targeting decisions . The soldier spoke on the condition of anonymity because it is a crime to describe military technology without government approval in Israel . <p> In the early days of the war the target factory was working on overdrive , staffed with about 300 soldiers operating around-the-clock . Many of the analysts were required to vet recommended targets from the Gospel and Lavender , a process that could take anywhere from three minutes to five hours . <p> The rule mandating two pieces of human-derived intelligence to validate a prediction from Lavender was dropped to one at the outset of the war , according to two people familiar with the efforts . <p> In some cases , in the Gaza division , soldiers who were poorly trained in using the technology attacked human targets without corroborating Lavender 's predictions at all , the soldier said . <p> At certain times the only corroboration required was that the target was a male , according to another person familiar with the efforts . <p> " You start with Lavender , and then you do the intelligence work , " the person said . " In the beginning of the war , they cut the work in half - which is okay , because it 's war . The problem was that then they sometimes cut all the work . " <p> To quickly trace the people Lavender had flagged as likely Hamas members , the IDF obtained real-time photos of people in their homes using a method the soldier declined to describe.Custom-built facial recognition tools enabled them to cross-reference the photos with existing imagesof Hamas members in the Lavender database . <p> While the matches appeared to be accurate , the person said , some soldiers grew concerned that the military was relying solely on the technology without corroboration that the people were still active members of the terrorist organisation . <p> Concerns about proportionality also took a back seat : Some people captured in the photographs might have been family members , and IDF commanders accepted that those people also would be killed in an attack , the soldier said . <p> At one point , the soldier 's unit was ordered to use a software program to estimate civilian casualties for a bombing campaign targeting about 50 buildings in northern Gaza.The unit 's analysts were given a simple formula : dividethe number of people in a district by the number of people estimated to live there - deriving the former figureby counting the cellphones connecting to a nearby cell tower . <p> Using a red-yellow-green traffic light , the system would flash green if a building had an occupancy rate of 25% or less - a threshold considered sufficient to pass to a commander to make the call about whether to bomb . <p> The soldier said he was stunned by what he considered an overly simplified analysis . <p> It took no account of whether a cellphone might be turned off or had run out of poweror of children who would n't have a cellphone . <p> Without AI , the military may have called people to see if they were home , the soldier said , a manual effort that would have been more accurate but taken far longer . <p> AI systems have built-in inaccuracies that make them inappropriate for a life-and-death context such as war , said Heidy Khlaaf , a vocal critic of Israel and chief AI scientist at the AI Institute , a New York-based non-profit that produces policy recommendations . <p> Khlaaf noted that the autonomous vehicles industry has spent the past decade trying to get its machine-learning algorithms to 100% accuracy , with little success . <p> Mimran , the former IDF lawyer , said he still believes militaries in the West must embrace AI tools to combat rivals such as China , but he worries about the accuracy of AI-enabled decision-making in the high-pressure fog of war . <p> " For pace , it 's a game-changer . But is it a game-changer in terms of quality ? " Mimran said . " I do n't think so . " 
@@119472021 <h> Challenges may be daunting but hopes also abound <p> As we enter the New Year , the global landscape is marked by significant challenges and uncertainties . From ongoing conflicts in the Middle East and Ukraine to the recent change in administration in the USA , the world is navigating a complex web of geopolitical tensions , economic fluctuations , and social upheavals . <p> We explore the prospects for the coming year , considering these critical factors and their potential impact on international trade and the global economy . <p> Middle East Conflicts <p> The Middle East remains a focal point of global instability . The past year has seen an escalation of conflicts , particularly in Gaza , Lebanon , and Syria . Israel 's military operations in Gaza have intensified , leading to significant humanitarian crises . The conflict has also spilt over into Lebanon , with Israel targeting Hezbollah , further destabilising the region . The fall of Bashar Al Assad 's regime in Syria has created a power vacuum , leading to increased violence and displacement . <p> These conflicts have far-reaching implications . The humanitarian toll is immense , with thousands of lives lost and millions displaced . Economically , the instability disrupts trade routes and energy supplies , contributing to global market volatility . <p> The international community 's response , including potential sanctions and diplomatic interventions , will be crucial in shaping the region 's future . <p> The Ukraine Crisis <p> In Ukraine , the conflict with Russia continues to escalate . The recent months have seen intensified battles in the Donbas region , with Russian forces attempting to expand their territorial control . The humanitarian situation is dire , with widespread displacement and infrastructure damage . The conflict has also strained Ukraine 's economy , which is heavily reliant on international aid and support . <p> The geopolitical ramifications of the Ukraine crisis are significant . The conflict has strained relations between Russia and Western nations , leading to increased military spending and a renewed focus on NATO 's role in European security . The potential for a negotiated settlement remains uncertain , with both sides preparing for prolonged conflict . <p> Change in US Administration <p> The recent change in administration in the United States , with Donald Trump returning to the presidency , has introduced new dynamics in global politics . <p> Mr Trump 's administration is expected to pursue a more isolationist foreign policy , focusing on ' America First ' principles . This shift could impact international alliances and trade agreements , as the US reassesses its commitments to global institutions and partnerships . <p> Domestically , the Administration 's policies on Immigration , Healthcare and Economic Reform will shape the US 's internal landscape . Internationally , Mr Trump 's approach to China , Russia , and the Middle East will be closely watched , as these relationships are pivotal to global stability . <p> International Trade <p> International trade is poised for a rebound after a challenging year . <p> The first quarter of 2024 saw a recovery in G20 merchandise exports , driven by strong performance in China and the United States . However , trade tensions remain high , particularly between the US and China , as both nations navigate complex economic and political landscapes . <p> The global supply chain , still recovering from pandemic-related disruptions , faces new challenges from geopolitical conflicts and protectionist policies . The rise in trade in services , particularly in travel and financial services , offers a glimmer of hope for economic recovery . However , the sustainability of this growth depends on resolving underlying tensions and fostering international cooperation . <p> The Global Economy <p> The global economy enters the New Year with cautious optimism . <p> The International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) projects global growth to be around 3.2% in 2024 , with a slight increase to 3.3% in 2025 . However , persistent inflation , particularly in the services sector , poses a significant challenge . Central banks worldwide are grappling with the delicate balance of curbing inflation without stifling growth . <p> Trade tensions , particularly between major economies , add to the uncertainty . The potential for higher interest rates and policy shifts in response to inflationary pressures could impact global investment and consumption patterns . Additionally , the ongoing conflicts in the Middle East and Ukraine , coupled with the US 's changing foreign policy , create a volatile environment for economic planning . <p> As we look ahead to the New Year , the world faces a complex array of challenges . The conflicts in the Middle East and Ukraine , the change in the US administration and the dynamics of international trade and the global economy all contribute to an uncertain future . However , with concerted efforts towards diplomacy , economic cooperation , and humanitarian support , there is hope for navigating these turbulent times . <p> The international community 's ability to address these issues collectively will be crucial in shaping a more stable and prosperous future . As individuals , staying informed and engaged with global events can help us understand the broader context and contribute to positive change in our own ways . Here is to a New Year filled with resilience , hope , and the pursuit of peace and prosperity for all . <p> We believe 2025 will be a year of recovery , reconciliation , reconsolidation and rehabilitation . The world economy would get on to the path of recovery , contrary to the theories of sceptics and those who believe we are in for a long spell of disaster . <p> Our World in New Zealand <p> In our own little world , we would do better as manufacturers , importers , exporters , wholesalers , retailers , education providers and so on . We will continue to attract foreign investors , students , migrants and tourists . We will also continue to lose our people going across the Tasman and across the world for better economic and social prospects . <p> We will retain political stability and sanity but continue to debate and disagree on the Treaty , Budget deficits , and a thousand other issues . <p> We will continue to speak about celebrating our cultural plurality , social partnership and community engagement . <p> We will do all of the above because talking is better than not saying anything . <p> Most important of all , we will remain as good New Zealanders as we have always been -- with passion , compassion , respect , self-respect , the will to work and the will to succeed . <p> Just as every raindrop holds a flower , every moment of the New Year should spell peace , harmony and happiness . <p> To provide the best experiences , we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information . Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site . Not consenting or withdrawing consent , may adversely affect certain features and functions . <p> FunctionalFunctional Always active <p> The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user , or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network . <p> PreferencesPreferences <p> The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user . <p> StatisticsStatistics <p> The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes . Without a subpoena , voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider , or additional records from a third party , information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone can not usually be used to identify you . <p> MarketingMarketing <p> The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising , or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes . 
@@119478137 <h> A ' genocidal project ' -- Dr Abu-Sittah on Israel 's destruction of Gaza 's health system <p> The last photograph of the director of Kamal Adwan Hospital in Gaza , Dr Hussam Abu Safiya , before he was arrested and abducted by Israeli forces . . . he is reportedly being held in the Sde Teiman base in Israel 's Negev desert , a place notorious for the torture and deaths of detainees . Image : @jeremycorbyn screenshot APR <p> Gaza 's Health Ministry has confirmed that close to 46,000 Palestinians have been killed by Israel 's ongoing assault , but Dr Ghassan Abu-Sittah estimates the true number is closer to 300,000 . <p> " This is literally and mathematically a genocidal project , " says Dr Abu-Sittah , a British Palestinian reconstructive surgeon who worked in Gaza for more than a month treating patients at both Al-Shifa and Al-Ahli Baptist hospitals . <p> Israel continues to attack what remains of the besieged territory 's medical infrastructure . <p> Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya , director of Kamal Adwan Hospital , and Faris Odeh , a 15-year-old boy from Gaza , are iconic figures of Palestine , both photographed standing unarmed before Israeli tanks with nothing but their resolve . <p> On Sunday , an Israeli attack on the upper floor of al-Wafa Hospital in Gaza City killed at least seven people and wounded several others . On Friday , Israeli troops stormed Kamal Adwan Hospital , northern Gaza 's last major functioning hospital , and set the facility on fire . <p> Many staff and patients were reportedly forced to go outside and strip in winter weather . <p> The director of Kamal Adwan , Dr Hussam Abu Safiya , was arrested , and his whereabouts remain unknown . Editor : He is reportedly being held in the Sde Teiman base in Israel 's Negev desert , a place notorious for the torture and deaths of detainees . <p> " It 's been obvious from the beginning that Israel has been wiping out a whole generation of health professionals in Gaza as a way of increasing the genocidal death toll but also of permanently making Gaza uninhabitable , " says Abu-Sittah . <p> " On October 7 , the Israelis crossed that genocidal Rubicon that settler-colonial projects cross . " <p> ' A genocidal project ' . Video : Democracy Now ! <p> NERMEEN SHAIKH : We begin today 's show in Gaza , where a sixth baby has died from severe cold as the death toll tops 45,500 and Israel 's assault on medical infrastructure continues in the besieged territory . <p> On Sunday , an Israeli attack on the upper floor of al-Wafa Hospital in Gaza City killed at least seven people and wounded several others . <p> WALEED AL-BOUDI : translated Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya was arrested from Al-Fakhoura School after he had stayed with us and refused to leave . Even though they told him to and that he was free to go , he told them that he wo n't leave his medical staff . <p> He took all of us and wanted to get us out at night . But they yelled at him and arrested him , a man of great humanity . <p> We appeal to the entire world , all of the world , all the human rights organiSations to stand by Dr Hussam Abu Safiya , the great man , the man who planted , within us and within our hearts , patience so we can persevere in our steadfast north . <p> I swear we would n't have left , but by force . We cried blood on the doors of Kamal Adwan Hospital when we were forced out by the occupation army . <p> NERMEEN SHAIKH : A person who was with Dr Hussam Abu Safiya shared testimony that , quote , " The Israeli forces whipped Dr Hussam using an electrical wire found in the street after forcing him and others from the medical staff to remove their clothes " . <p> This is Dr Hussam Abu Safiya in one of his final interviews before being detained , produced by Sotouries . <p> DR HUSSAM ABU SAFIYA : translated I always say the situation requires one to stand by our people 's side and not run away from it . <p> Gaza is our homeland , our mother , our beloved and everything to us . Gaza deserves all of this steadfastness and deserves all of the sacrifices . <p> It is not just about Gaza , but we deserve to be a people that deserves freedom just like every other people on Earth . <p> I think the occupation wants us to get out and for us to ask them to get us out , so they can publicly say that the healthcare system is the one asking to leave and that it was n't them who asked us to , but we are aware of that . <p> But we will not leave , God willing , from this place , as I said , for as long as there are humanitarian services to be provided to our people in the northern Gaza Strip . <p> NERMEEN SHAIKH : That was Dr Hussam Abu Safiya in one of his last interviews before Israeli forces arrested him on Friday in a raid on Kamal Adwan Hospital along with at least 240 others in a raid which left the hospital nonoperational . <p> Israel 's military alleged that Hamas militants were using Kamal Adwan Hospital But have never provided evidence for their claims . <p> The World Health Organisation is calling on Israel to end its attacks on Gaza hospitals . Earlier today , the World Health Organization 's chief , Dr. Tedros Ghebreyesus , said : " People in Gaza need access to health care . Humanitarians need access to provide health aid . Ceasefire ! " <p> Last week , World Health Organisation spokesperson Dr Margaret Harris was asked on Channel 4 News whether there was any evidence of the Israeli claim that the hospital is a Hamas stronghold . <p> DR MARGARET HARRIS : So , whenever we send a mission , we go and we look at the health situation . <p> Now , I 've not had at any point our healthcare teams come back and say that they 've got any concerns beyond the healthcare , but I should say that what we do is look at what the health situation is and what needs to be done . <p> But all we 've ever seen going on in that hospital is healthcare . <p> NERMEEN SHAIKH : Well , for more , we go to Cairo , Egypt . <p> AMY GOODMAN : Nermeen , thanks so much . I am here with a man who knew Dr Abu Safiya well and is in constant contact with people on the ground in Gaza , particularly the medical professionals . <p> Dr Ghassan Abu-Sittah is with us here , British Palestinian reconstructive surgeon . He worked last year in Gaza for almost -- for over a month with M ? decins Sans Fronti ? res -- that 's Doctors Without Borders ( MSF ) -- in two hospitals . He worked at Al-Shifa , the main hospital in Gaza , as well as Al-Ahli Baptist Hospital . <p> Welcome to Democracy Now ! You 've been in touch with family of Dr Abu Safiya . If you can talk about where he is right now , believed to have been arrested by the Israeli military , and then the crisis just right now on the ground with the closing of Kamal Adwan and more ? <p> DR GHASSAN ABU-SITTAH : So , unfortunately , the family is afraid that he has been moved to the infamous Sde Teiman torture camp , an internment camp where , before him , Dr Adnan al-Bursh was tortured , and tortured to death , Dr Iyad Rantisi was tortured to death , where there is documented evidence of not just Israeli guards taking part in torture , but even Israeli doctors taking part in the torture of Palestinians . <p> And so , that is the fear that not just the family has , but all of us have . <p> And what we 've seen in this process , in this destruction , systematic destruction of the health system , with the total destruction of all of the hospitals in the north , so not just Kamal Adwan , before that , the Indonesian Hospital and Al-Awda Hospital , and , immediately after , the targeting of al-Wafa Hospital and then the targeting again of Al-Ahli Baptist Hospital , which was the first hospital the Israelis targeted on the October 17 . <p> The targeting of al-Wafa Hospital was intended to kill medical students from Gaza 's Islamic University who were sitting in exam in that hospital . And luckily for them , the Israelis got the wrong floor . And then the targeting of Al-Ahli Hospital , which is now the last hospital functioning in that whole arbitrarily created northern part of Gaza , is a sign that the Israelis will now move towards the Ahli Hospital for destruction . <p> I just want to highlight there is research that is about to be published that shows that the chances of being killed as a nurse or a doctor in Gaza during this genocidal war is three-and-a-half times that of the general population . <p> So it 's been obvious from the beginning that Israel has been wiping out a whole generation of health professionals in Gaza as a way of increasing the genocidal death toll but also of permanently making Gaza uninhabitable . <p> NERMEEN SHAIKH : Well , Dr Ghassan Abu-Sittah , you , of course , as we mentioned , as Amy mentioned in the introduction , you have worked in two Gaza hospitals . You 've just talked a little bit about what 's recently -- the recent Israeli attacks on medical infrastructure in Gaza , but if you could explain , just to give a sense of what 's happened overall since October 7 , 2023 . <p> If you could say the scale of the destruction of medical infrastructure , as well as the systematic attacks on medical personnel , as you said , this new research that 's coming out that shows that they 're three to four times more likely to be killed than the general population ? <p> So , if you could just say , begin from October 2023 to now ? <p> DR GHASSAN ABU-SITTAH : So , what happened on October 12th is that the Israeli army started to call by phone medical directors of all of the hospitals , telling them that unless they evacuated the hospitals , the blood of the patients would be on their hands . <p> And I remember that day I was with Dr Ahmed Muhanna from Al-Awda Hospital , who 's still been arrested now for over a year , an anesthetist and a medical director , and he received a phone call from the Israeli army to tell him to evacuate Al-Awda Hospital . <p> Of course , we realised at that point that the destruction of the health system was going to be a prerequisite for the kind of ethnic cleansing that the Israelis wanted in Gaza . <p> I was in Al-Ahli Baptist Hospital on the day of the October 17 , when the Israelis bombed that hospital , killing over 480 patients . And then we had the whole narrative about Shifa Hospital , the siege of Shifa Hospital , the destruction of three pediatric hospitals in the north , and then the first attack on Shifa Hospital . <p> And then , after that , 36 hospitals in Gaza have now been reduced to the three partially working hospitals in the south and only a remnant of Al-Ahli Hospital in the north . We have had over a thousand health workers -- doctors , nurses , health professionals -- killed , over 400 imprisoned , and then the destruction of the health infrastructure , the destruction of water and sewage , the use of water as a tool of collective punishment in order to create the public health catastrophe that exists in Gaza in terms of infectious diseases , and the intentional famine . <p> And so , at the moment , we have in Gaza what the doctors are referring to as the triad of death : hypothermia because of the winter , wounding because of the injuries , and malnutrition . <p> And with the three , what happens is that people die of at higher temperatures , people die of lesser injuries , because the coexistence of these three conditions means that the body is depleted of any physiological reserve . <p> And so , that 's why we 're watching over seven kids in the last week die of hypothermia , an adult nurse die of hypothermia , not because the temperatures are subzero -- the temperatures are just hovering above zero -- but because they 're so malnourished and they 're injured and a lot of them have infectious diseases , and so they 're dying at the same time . <p> Israel has created a genocidal machine that takes Palestinian lives beyond the injury , beyond the bombs , beyond the shrapnel . <p> And so people are dying of infectious diseases . People are dying because of the health system has collapsed , and so their chronic diseases become medical emergencies . And people are dying from the famine and the malnutrition . <p> NERMEEN SHAIKH : So , in light of that , Dr Ghassan Abu-Sittah , if you could comment on the fact that so many people now , an increasing number of people , are questioning this death toll of 45,500 , over that number who have been killed in Gaza since or who have died in Gaza since October 2023 ? <p> People are saying that is a vast undercount . From what you 're saying , that seems almost certain . If you could comment as a medical professional ? You know , what do you think might be a more accurate figure ? <p> DR GHASSAN ABU-SITTAH : So , 45,000 are people whose bodies were taken to a Ministry of Health hospital , and they were taken by people who witnessed or who recognised them , and a death certificate was issued . <p> This 45,000 excludes the tens of thousands who are still under the rubble , more so in the north , where the emergency services were targeted by the Israelis and so are now completely unable to function . <p> And so , we see pictures of dogs eating bodies of those killed in the streets . Not only people under the rubble , people who have been killed and not reported , or their bodies have not been retrieved . <p> When you drop 2000-pound bombs , there 's very little of the human body that is left . And so there are people who literally pulverized by these bombs . <p> Then you have those whose chronic illnesses , once untreated , became deadly , so the kidney dialysis patients , the heart disease patients , the diabetics , who were no longer able to get treatment . <p> It does n't take into account the women who are dying from maternal care , from obstetric injuries during delivery , because they 're delivering in makeshift hospitals , they 're delivering in the tents , and they 're malnourished when they give birth , and so them and their babies have a higher rate of maternal mortality , of infant mortality . <p> And then you have those who are dying of infectious diseases , of the thousands who have hepatitis at the moment , of the polio , and those who are dying not immediately from their injuries but from the wounds that do not have access to healthcare to stop the infection setting in , and then , eventually , the infection becoming sepsis and killing them . <p> The number is closer to 300,000 . This is around 10 to 12 percent of Gaza 's population . <p> France , at the end of the Second World War , 4 percent of its population were killed . This is literally and mathematically a genocidal project . <p> This is not a political term . This is a literal and mathematical term , where you want to eliminate the population and to ensure that whoever is left is incapable of becoming part of a society , because they 're tending to their wounds or they 've been so severely debilitated by the injuries and the neglected injuries . <p> We at @amnesty are extremely concerned over the fate &amp; wellbeing of Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya , director of Kamal Adwan hospital who was detained by Israeli forces along with others during a raid on the hospital on 27 December . He must be released immediately and unconditionally . <p> AMY GOODMAN : Dr Abu-Sittah , you have asked , " How can a live-streamed genocide continue unhindered ? " What is your response to that question right now ? <p> DR GHASSAN ABU-SITTAH : Right now with the arrest of Dr Hussam Abu Safiya , where is the British Medical Association ? Where is the American Medical Association ? Where are the royal colleges ? Where is the French Medical Association ? <p> Western medical institutions , their moral bankruptcy has become so astounding during this genocide . For them to become part of a genocidal enablement apparatus , for their silence and , in a lot of times , their collusion to silence those who speak out against the genocide . <p> For me , as a health professional , you 're shocked at how completely empty of any moral value these medical associations have become , when they have become complicit in a televised genocide which targets doctors . <p> AMY GOODMAN : You know , I 'm speaking to you here in Cairo . In May , Germany did not allow you in to speak . You are a British Palestinian doctor . <p> Since you were in Gaza last year , you 've been speaking out about what 's happening . Explain exactly what happened . I mean , Human Rights Watch and other groups were demanding that this ban be lifted . They banned you from where ? <p> DR GHASSAN ABU-SITTAH : So , I was invited to speak at a conference in Germany . I was stopped at Berlin Airport and was told that I 'm banned from going into Germany for a month , and I was deported at the end of that day back to the UK . <p> A few months later , I had an invitation from the French Senate . When I arrived at Charles de Gaulle Airport , I discovered that the Germans , a few days after they deported me , had put in a ban for the whole of the Schengen -- and Schengen is the EU plus Norway , plus Sweden , plus Switzerland -- using an administrative law so that they would n't have to put it in front of the judge . We then were able to challenge that and have it overturned . <p> But at the same time , pro-Israel groups , like UK Lawyers for Israel , submitted multiple complaints against me with the General Medical Council to have my medical licence removed , submitted complaints against me with the Charity Commission in the UK to have me banned for life from ever holding office in a UK registered charity . <p> This is what -- this is why this genocide has continued unhindered and unchallenged for over 14 months . There are apparatus of genocide enablement that exists in the West , either through collusion or by actively targeting . <p> Over 60 doctors in the UK have had complaints against them with the General Medical Council to have their medical licences removed as a result of their support of the Palestinians during the genocide . <p> AMY GOODMAN : Finally , Dr Abu-Sittah , Jimmy Carter died yesterday at the age of 100 . He wrote the book in the 2000s , which is quite amazing , but after he was president , Palestine : Peace Not Apartheid . I 'm going to rejoin Nermeen for the end of the show , an interview I did with him on that issue . But your thoughts on President Carter ? <p> DR GHASSAN ABU-SITTAH : The logic of the relationship between the Zionist colonialist movement and the Palestinian indigenous population has always been that of elimination . <p> At a certain point -- and that 's unfortunately now behind us since the 7th of October -- apartheid separation was the chosen method of elimination of the Palestinians . On the 7th of October , the Israelis crossed that genocidal Rubicon that settler-colonial projects cross . <p> And once the genocidal Rubicon is crossed , the elimination of the indigenous population by the settler-colonial project then purely becomes genocidal . <p> Israel , even at the end of this genocidal war in Gaza , will not be able to deal with the Palestinians in a nongenocidal way . Once the settler-colonial project becomes genocidal , it can not undo itself . <p> We 've seen that in North America with the killing of the children in Canada . We 've seen that in Australia . We 've seen that everywhere . <p> AMY GOODMAN : And Carter , again , as we just have 30 seconds , writing the book Palestine : Peace Not Apartheid ? <p> DR GHASSAN ABU-SITTAH : Well , Carter had a historic opportunity to change the course of this struggle , had he insisted that part of the Camp David Accords was the creation of a Palestinian state . And no amount of recantation will ever change that missed opportunity . <p> He could have forced on the Israeli government , and the first right-wing Israeli government at that point , under Begin -- he could have forced the creation of a Palestinian state , but he failed to do that . <p> NERMEEN SHAIKH : And finally , Dr Ghassan Abu-Sittah , we just have 30 seconds . You just said that a genocidal settler-colonial project can not undo itself . How do you see this ending , then ? <p> DR GHASSAN ABU-SITTAH : You see , the world has a choice , because surplus populations like the Palestinians , like refugees crossing the Mediterranean , like the poor people in the favelas and in the inner-city slums , these will either be dealt with through a genocidal project , as Israel has dealt with the Palestinians in Gaza -- and this kind of response or this kind of template will become part of the military doctrine that is taught to armies across the world in dealing with these surplus populations . <p> NERMEEN SHAIKH : Dr Ghassan Abu-Sittah , thank you so much for joining us , a British Palestinian reconstructive surgeon who worked in Gaza as a volunteer with Doctors without Borders treating patients at both Al-Shifa and Al-Ahli Baptist Hospital . <p> Amy will rejoin us for our last segment talking about her interview with former President Jimmy Carter , who died Sunday at age 100. 
