@@118329151 <p> National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan said Sunday that President Joe Biden is looking to make as much progress as possible on foreign policy before he leaves office next month . <p> In an interview with " This Week " co-anchor Jonathan Karl , Sullivan said that Biden is hoping to surge aid to Ukraine and move forward with ceasefire talks between Israel and Hamas with his time left in office . Both conflicts have dogged the administration , with Ukraine struggling to retake territory it lost to Russia and little progress in Gaza despite a ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah in Lebanon . <p> " We are going to do everything in our power for these 50 days to get Ukraine all the tools we possibly can to strengthen their position on the battlefield so that they 'll be stronger at the negotiating table . And President Biden directed me to oversee a massive surge in the military equipment that we are delivering to Ukraine so that we have spent every dollar that Congress has appropriated to us by the time that President Biden leaves office , " Sullivan said . <p> When pressed on clinching a deal in Gaza and possibly broader diplomatic breakthroughs between Israel and Arab countries like Saudi Arabia , Sullivan said , " The first step is getting the ceasefire and hostage deal . If we can get that into effect , then the possibilities for a broader diplomatic initiative in the region along the lines that you just described really open up , and we will use every day we have in office to try to generate as much progress towards that end as possible . " <p> Making progress on both fronts remains a tall order for multiple reasons . The U.S. has vowed to not make any decisions about Ukraine without Kyiv 's input and the Israeli government has appeared reluctant to wind down fighting in Gaza . <p> And with President-elect Donald Trump entering office , foreign policy priorities will undoubtedly be shaken up . Trump is believed to be unlikely to pressure Israel to scale back its military operations in Gaza , and he has appeared skeptical of sending aid to Ukraine at the same pace the Biden administration has . <p> " I 've encouraged the Ukrainian team to engage the incoming team as well as to engage all of our allies and partners , because , again , on Jan. 21 , the war in Ukraine does n't just go away . Obviously , the new team will have its own policy , its own approach , and I ca n't speak to that , but what I can do is make sure that we put Ukraine in the best possible position when we hand off the baton , " Sullivan said , referencing the day after Trump takes office . <p> Still , Sullivan debunked a report suggesting that the administration is open to returning nuclear weapons to Ukraine . <p> " That is not under consideration . No . What we are doing is surging various conventional capacities to Ukraine so that they can effectively defend themselves and take the fight to the Russians , not nuclear capability , " he told Karl . <p> " We got a lot of work to do , and frankly , we 're going to try to do that also in a way where we have a smooth transition with the incoming Trump team . And I have to say that I 've been gratified so far by the coordination I 've been able to have with the incoming Trump team . They seem focused also on a smooth transition , because they want to be able to hit the ground running , " he told Karl . <p> After Trump takes office , however , things become less clear . <p> Trump on Saturday tapped Kash Patel , a loyalist and vocal critic of the Justice Department , as his pick to lead the FBI . Patel has railed against the so-called " Deep State , " naming Sullivan as a member . <p> When pressed on if that pick concerns him , Sullivan dodged . <p> " I 'm not going to speak to President-elect Trump 's nominees . I 'll let him and his transition team speak to that , " Sullivan said . <p> " We inherited an FBI director who actually had been appointed by President Trump , Director Chris Wray , who has continued to serve in that role through the four years of the Biden administration , and served with distinction , served entirely insulated from politics where the partisan preferences of the current sitting president of the United States . This is a good , deep , bipartisan tradition that President Biden adhered to . " 
@@118330641 <p> President-elect Donald Trump 's stunning announcement that he will nominate Kash Patel as FBI director sets the stage for a fresh round of turbulence at a law enforcement agency tasked with protecting the homeland and investigating federal crimes . Patel , a steadfast Trump ally with plans to shake up the institution he 's been tapped to lead , is a study in contrasts from the current tight-lipped director who preaches a " keep calm and tackle hard " mantra . The announcement means that current FBI Director Christopher Wray can either resign from the job , consistent with Trump 's apparent wishes , or wait to be fired once Trump takes office in January . Meanwhile , Patel is likely to face deep skepticism during his confirmation hearings even in a Republican-led Senate . <p> Trump threatens 100% tariff on the BRIC bloc of nations if they act to undermine US dollar <p> WEST PALM BEACH , Fla . ( AP ) -- President-elect Donald Trump is threatening 100% tariffs against a bloc of nine nations if they act to undermine the U.S. dollar . His threat was directed at countries in the so-called BRIC alliance , which consists of Brazil , Russia , India , China , South Africa , Egypt , Ethiopia , Iran and the United Arab Emirates .. Trump says he wants a commitment from the bloc that it will not create a new currency or otherwise try to undermine the U.S. dollar . <p> Young men swung to the right for Trump after a campaign dominated by masculine appeals <p> WASHINGTON ( AP ) -- Young men shifted toward Donald Trump in the 2024 presidential election in a change from recent years , when most young male voters backed the Democratic candidate . Young white men already supported him in 2020 and shifted slightly farther right this time . Young Latino men were about evenly split between the two candidates . Most young Black men backed Democrat Kamala Harris , though about a third supported Trump . Trump 's campaign for the Oval Office was dominated by appeals to traditional masculinity , conveyed in appearances in nontraditional media . His campaign believed that tactic would boost his support among men who otherwise do not pay attention to political media . <p> BEIRUT ( AP ) -- Thousands of Syrian insurgents have taken over most of Aleppo , establishing positions in the country 's largest city and controlling its airport before expanding their shock offensive to a nearby province . They faced little to no resistance from government troops Saturday , according to fighters and activists . Thousands of fighters also moved on , facing almost no defense from government forces . They seized towns and villages in northern Hama , a province where they had a presence before being expelled by government troops in 2016 . They claimed to have entered the city of Hama . In his first public comments since the offensive began , President Bashar Assad said Syria will continue to " defend its stability and territorial integrity against terrorists and their supporters . " <p> DEIR AL-BALAH , Gaza Strip ( AP ) -- An Israeli airstrike on a car in the Gaza Strip killed five people including employees of World Central Kitchen . The charity says it is " urgently seeking more details " Saturday after Israel 's military said it targeted a World Central Kitchen worker who had been part of the Hamas attack that sparked the war . The charity says it is " heartbroken " and adds that it had no knowledge anyone in the car had alleged ties to the Oct. 7 , 2023 attack . It says it is pausing operations in Gaza . It paused them earlier this year after an Israeli strike killed seven of its workers . Also on Saturday , Hamas released a new hostage video of Israeli-American Edan Alexander . <p> Storm blankets parts of the US during busy holiday travel weekend with more snow and cold forecast <p> BUFFALO , N.Y . ( AP ) -- The first big snowfall of the season has blanketed parts of New York , Pennsylvania and Michigan during the hectic U.S. holiday travel and shopping weekend . Numbing cold and heavy snow could persist through the early part of the week and cause hazards in the Great Lakes , Plains and Midwest regions . The National Weather Service says the heaviest snow totals are expected downwind of lakes Erie and Ontario , affecting areas from northeast Ohio , far northwest Pennsylvania , western New York State and portions of northwest New York state . Cold air is expected to move over the eastern third of the U.S. by Monday with temperatures about 10 degrees below average . <p> A landmark climate change case will open at the top UN court as island nations fear rising seas <p> THE HAGUE ( AP ) -- The top United Nations court will take up the largest case in its history on Monday . It opens two weeks of hearings into what countries worldwide are legally required to do to combat climate change and help vulnerable nations fight its devastating impact . Island nations who fear they could simply disappear under rising sea waters have lobbied for years for such a court case . The U.N . General Assembly asked the International Court of Justice last year for an opinion on " the obligations of States in respect of climate change . " <p> A twice-yearly shot could help end AIDS . But will it get to everyone who needs it ? <p> MEXICO CITY ( AP ) -- A twice-yearly shot that prevents HIV infections will be available at low cost in 120 poor countries . But nearly all of Latin America was exluded from the deal with drugmaker Gilead , sparking concern the world is missing a critical opportunity to stop AIDS . The shot was 100% effective in preventing HIV infections in a study of women , and results published Wednesday show it worked nearly as well in men . The drug is already sold to treat HIV infections and Gilead plans to seek approval soon to use it to guard against infections . <p> Southwest Airlines says it is ending cabin service earlier to reduce chance of injury <p> Southwest Airlines is ending its cabin service earlier starting next month . Beginning on Dec. 4 , a company spokesperson says flight attendants will begin preparing the cabin for landing at an altitude of 18,000 feet instead of 10,000 feet . The company says it 's making the changes to reduce the risk of in-flight turbulence injuries . For passengers , that means they will need to return their seats to an upright position or do other pre-landing procedures earlier than before . While turbulence-related fatalities are quite rare , injuries have piled up over the years . <p> Lou Carnesecca , Hall of Fame coach who led St. John 's for 24 seasons , has died at 99 <p> NEW YORK ( AP ) -- Lou Carnesecca , the excitable St. John 's coach whose outlandish sweaters became an emblem of his team 's rousing Final Four run in 1985 , has died at 99 , just a few weeks shy of what would have been his 100th birthday . The university announced Carnesecca 's death Saturday night , saying in a statement the Hall of Fame coach died surrounded by his family and had " endeared himself to generations of New Yorkers with his wit and warmth . " Carnesecca was a treasured figure in New York sports in his day , affection for " Looie " never wavering in a city with little patience for its players , coaches , executives and owners . He went 526-200 in 24 seasons over two stints at St. John 's before retiring in 1992 . <p> Copyright 2024 The Associated Press . All rights reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten or redistributed . <h> Watch this discussion.Stop watching this discussion . <h> ( 0 ) comments <h> Welcome to the discussion . <p> Keep it Clean . Please avoid obscene , vulgar , lewd , racist or sexually-oriented language.PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.Do n't Threaten . Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.Be Truthful . Do n't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.Be Nice . No racism , sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.Be Proactive . Use the ' Report ' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us . We 'd love to hear eyewitness accounts , the history behind an article . 
@@118333954 <p> President-elect Donald Trump announced Sunday that he intends to nominate Massad Boulos , a billionaire businessman from Lebanon who is also father-in-law to Tiffany Trump , to serve as senior adviser on Arab and Middle Eastern affairs . <p> Trump announced Boulos as his pick for the advisory position in a post shared to his social media platform Truth Social on Sunday . <p> " Massad is an accomplished lawyer and a highly respected leader in the business world , with extensive experience on the International scene , " Trump wrote . " He has been a longtime proponent of Republican and Conservative values , an asset to my Campaign , and was instrumental in building tremendous new coalitions with the Arab American Community . " <p> His post went on to describe Boulos as " a dealmaker , and an unwavering supporter of PEACE in the Middle East , " who " will be a strong advocate for the United States , and its interests . " <p> The selection comes as Trump and Vice President-elect JD Vance continue their transition into the White House ahead of January 's inauguration . Boulos will likely play a role in how Trump approaches Israel 's ongoing war with Hamas in Gaza , which has triggered conflicts with Lebanon and Iran while threatening to spread more widely throughout the region . The Biden White House announced last week that it had helped broker a ceasefire deal between Israel and the Iran-backed group Hezbollah in Lebanon , although both Israel and Hezbollah have accused the other of violating the agreement . Negotiations for a similar deal with Hamas have long been stalled . <p> Boulos already helped spearhead the Trump campaign 's outreach efforts in Arab American communities in the U.S. this year , organizing meetings in Michigan and other states . He is also the second Trump in-law picked to serve in a leadership role in his next administration . <p> In another Truth Social post shared on Saturday , the president-elect announced Charles Kushner , whose son Jared Kushner is married to Trump 's daughter Ivanka Trump , was his choice for ambassador to France . Jared Kushner served as a senior adviser to Trump during his first term . <p> On Truth Social , Trump called Charles Kushner " a tremendous business leader , philanthropist , &amp; dealmaker , who will be a strong advocate representing our Country &amp; interests . " Trump pardoned Kushner in 2020 after he pleaded guilty years earlier to tax evasion and making illegal campaign donations . <p> Emily Mae Czachor is a reporter and news editor at CBSNews.com . She covers breaking news , often focusing on crime and extreme weather . Emily Mae has previously written for outlets including the Los Angeles Times , BuzzFeed and Newsweek. 
@@118364653 <h> Topline <p> President-elect Donald Trump threatened " hell to pay in the Middle East " if remaining hostages are not released by the time he takes office next month -- a statement echoing his previous support for Israel and past calls for the Oct. 7 hostages to be released . <p> President-elect Donald Trump said while people are " talking about the hostages who are being held so ... + violently and inhumanely " in the Middle East , there has been no action on the matter . <p> Getty Images <h> Key Facts <p> Trump said in the Truth Social post that while " everybody is talking about the hostages who are being held so violently , inhumanely , and against the will of the entire World , in the Middle East " it has only been talk and " and no action ! " <p> He added that if the hostages are not released by Jan. 20 , 2025 -- the day he is set to take office -- " those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America . " <p> Around 100 people who were taken hostage from Israel by militant-group Hamas on Oct. 7 are believed to still be held in Gaza , though only about two-thirds are believed to still be alive , according to the Associated Press . <p> Israel 's president Isaac Herzog thanked and blessed Trump for the sentiment in a post on X , formerly known as Twitter , saying , " We all pray for the moment we see our sisters and brothers back home ! " <h> Key Background <p> Gaza-based militant group Hamas took about 240 people hostage when it attacked Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 . More than 100 hostages were released through a previous ceasefire deal between Israel and Hamas , but the two have been unable to agree on terms of another ceasefire since last year . The Washington Post reported that while most hostages are believed to be held by Hamas still , some may be held by other militant groups like Palestinian Islamic Jihad . The Palestinian Health Ministry , which is operated by Hamas , has estimated more than 45,000 people have died since Oct. 7 , according to Al Jazeera , and Israel has been facing increased international pressure to resolve the war as the death toll increases . Last week , Israel agreed to a ceasefire to end its fighting with Lebanon-based Hezbollah , and at the time U.S. President Joe Biden said the U.S. would be making another push soon for a ceasefire between Israel and Hamas and he was hopeful the Hezbollah ceasefire would lay the groundwork . <h> Tangent <p> Trump 's statement came after the Israeli Defense Forces confirmed that Omer Neutra , an American-Israeli citizen who was believed to be held hostage in Gaza , was dead . The IDF said in a post on X that Neutra , who was a 21-year-old platoon commander in the Armored Corps for the IDF , " was killed in battle on Oct. 7 and his body has been held hostage in Gaza since . " Neutra was one of seven American hostages still believed to be held by Gaza , CNN reported , four of whom are dead . 
@@118365150 <h> ShareAll sharing options for:Who Is Steve McQueen Trying to Be ? <p> At a recent preview screening in Toronto of Steve McQueen 's new movie , Blitz -- a historical drama about a mother and son ( played by Saoirse Ronan and Elliott Heffernan , respectively ) who become separated during the German shelling of London in 1940 -- an audience member asked the filmmaker why he 'd opted to provide a film so steeped in bleakness with a ( relatively ) happy ending . After a quizzical pause , McQueen -- who tends to be hyper-ruminative when it comes to explaining his work -- replied by saying that he did n't think Blitz had a happy ending at all . <p> " It 's a wish , " said McQueen of his film 's finale , a poetic phrase that speaks to the tone of plangent and universal yearning threaded through Blitz'svarious CGI-assisted action set pieces . It 's a phrase that also speaks , perhaps unconsciously , to the anxieties of an avant-garde artist perennially edging his way toward wider acceptance and wrestling with what it means to get there . For filmmakers of McQueen 's stature , it 's sometimes important to be careful what they wish for -- lest they get it . <p> Citing a desire to " obliterate the frame , " McQueen emerged from the London art scene -- and New York 's Tisch School -- in the early 1990s with a series of striking short films that split the difference between tactility and abstraction . Bear depicts a wrestling match between two naked , well-muscled men , one of whom is played by the director himself ; their tussle suggests an allegorical link between alpha-male aggression and tender homoeroticism , as well as a wary dance between artist and muse . McQueen continued the idea of the filmmaker as a sort of symbolic stuntman in 1997 's Deadpan , which restaged a famously death-defying sight gag from Buster Keaton 's silent-era masterpiece Steamboat Bill , Jr . Standing stock-still and sullen in homage to the Great Stone Face , McQueen occupies the center of the frame while the facade of a house comes crashing down around him . It 's a slapstick money shot that deconstructs multiple layers of meaning about film history and directorial craftsmanship ; by nodding to Keaton -- a pioneering genius of the medium who occasionally appeared in blackface -- McQueen slyly alluded to questions about race and authorship while ( literally and figuratively ) putting himself in harm 's way . <p> In 1999 , McQueen won Britain 's prestigious Turner Prize , a citation reserved for innovative and vanguard artists ; a decade later , he made his feature-film debut with Hunger , starring Michael Fassbender as Bobby Sands , the IRA freedom fighte who starved himself to death in the HM Prison Maze in Northern Ireland in 1981 . Shot in a glancing , lyrical style that eschews narrative exposition in favor of visceral synecdoches -- bloodied hands being washed in a sink , insects scrambling across a windowsill , excrement being smeared concentrically on cellblock walls -- Hunger is a tone poem about the physical and psychic wreckage of incarceration , with Fassbender contributing a gestural tour de force . Everything you need to know about his character 's commitment to his cause is conveyed through body language . The more that Bobby Sands 's torso recedes and collapses in front of McQueen 's static , unblinking camera , the more potent he becomes ; if anything , the mid-film dialogue between Bobby and a visiting priest , shot ostentatiously and effectively in a 17-minute take , is redundant within the film 's impressionistic conception . <p> The formal brilliance of Hunger is undeniable , but a case can be made that McQueen was aestheticizing his material to an extreme -- and maybe to a fault . That goes double for his follow-up , Shame , which once again used Fassbender as an avatar of mortification , this time as a fictional character in thrall to a very different cause . Our antihero , Brandon , is a Manhattan master-of-the-universe type , ? la Patrick Bateman , whose all-American psychosis manifests as compulsive satyriasis ; he 's addicted to sex and takes no pleasure as he hunts down anonymous partners and ejaculates all over the sleek signifiers of conspicuous consumption strewn across his bachelor pad . Where Hunger'sshow-off technique was carefully -- and effectively -- placed in historical context , Shame attempts to diagnose millennial malaise : The masochism is laid on so thick that it could almost be a parody of a certain kind of sterile art cinema . The film feels like the work of a virtuoso trying to live up to his own pedigree ; between the methodically achieved sterility of the compositions and the brutalism of the production design , it 's clear that Brandon is n't the only guy trying to jerk himself off . <p> For many critics -- and a majority of the Academy , who voted it as 2014 's Best Picture -- 12 Years a Slave represented a significant improvement , yet it 's also a fitting complement to Hunger , with its focus on an American narrative of imprisonment and resistance . I 've gone on the record elsewhere about my reservations for a film whose most powerful moments exemplify its maker 's peculiar and paradoxical form of showmanship , with its mix of atrocity and austerity ; McQueen 's exaggerated stylization of Michael Fassbender 's petty tyrant plantation owner , Edwin Epps , who takes center stage after purchasing Chiwetel Ejiofor 's Solomon Northup , is telling . Here , Fassbender 's acting becomes a liability , especially in contrast to Ejiofor 's thoughtful understatement : He makes Epps into a cringeworthy caricature whose presence says less about long-standing systems of violence and oppression than McQueen 's berserk sense of dramaturgy . <p> I 've also already written about Widows , the twisty , Gillian Flynn -- written heist thriller that rerouted McQueen 's trajectory definitively toward multiplex entertainment . At its best , the film is primo prestige pulp adorned with a series of gorgeous visual flourishes , like a wonderfully choreographed shot that traces the economic topography and racial hierarchy of an entire Chicago neighborhood while staying glued to the windshield of a moving car . Rather than turning social consciousness or subversion into escapism , McQueen tries -- with mixed but real success -- to integrate them on a molecular level . Widows is the rare contemporary caper movie where it feels like something is at stake beyond the vanities of its A-list cast members . <p> McQueen 's best directorial work to date is probably the 2020 BBC anthology Small Axe , which includes five discrete features centered on West Indian immigrants in late-20th-century London . The standout , Mangrove , about the 1971 trial of the so-called Mangrove Nine , who bravely protested a series of police raids on a well-loved Caribbean restaurant in Notting Hill , plays like a spiritual sequel to Hunger , except that it explicitly zooms out to analyze larger currents of prejudice . The equally superlative Lovers Rock , meanwhile , rebuts Shame'sequation of guilt and pleasure by immersing the viewer in a raucous , pay-at-the-door house party whose participants are boosted by pheromones , booze , and an intoxicating notion of community . McQueen 's gift for claustrophobia is reworked to convey an exquisite intimacy ; the movie is beautifully constructed , directed , and edited yet comes off as an effortless , giddy , galvanizing rush of good vibes . <p> If the overwhelming sense one gets from Lovers Rock is of an artist in his sweet spot , Blitz feels like he 's pushing against his limits . In broad outline , the film is a story of separation that transposes a series of picaresque , Dickensian tropes onto a World War II narrative . In bleeding together the 19th and 20th centuries , McQueen is clearly trying to say something about the representation of British history and also about his responsibilities as a filmmaker in the present tense . In an interview with The Globe and Mail , the director affirmed that the film 's nightmarish images of a civilian population under fire are not supposed to be self-contained ; while he did n't cite Gaza himself , he deferred graciously to his interlocutor 's opinion on the matter . " The film is about the normal , ordinary people who are on the ground , similar to what we 're seeing right now , " said McQueen . " The leaders are the ones who made the decisions . Us normal people are the ones who have to deal with the consequences of that . " <p> " The pain of parting is nothing compared to the joy of meeting again , " wrote Dickens in Nicholas Nickleby.Blitz'splotline is energized by that same crystalline yearning . The all-consuming guilt felt by munitions worker Rita ( Ronan ) after sending 9-year-old Georgie ( Heffernan ) to the countryside -- along with half a million other children as part of a citywide child evacuation plan -- is matched by the boy 's white-hot determination to make his way back to her . Impulsively , Georgie flees his new guardians and hops on a train back to the city ; his journey gives McQueen a chance to revise the era 's social narratives and iconography -- and the way most movies about the Blitz barely pay even stiff upper lip service to the role of non-white characters . Wandering through London on the lam from the authorities , Georgie is doubly vulnerable as a multiracial child . In McQueen 's skeptical vision , the process of keeping calm and carrying on means propping up a status quo stratified by racism . <p> Telling a familiar story from an unfamiliar perspective is a viable idea , and there are moments in Blitz when McQueen uses a child 's point of view smartly , like a nighttime interlude in the Islington Empire arcade in which Georgie encounters dioramas of Black people being subjugated and exploited , avatars that feed into his sense of alienation . Ever the dialectician , McQueen counters these retrograde images with the arrival of a saintly Nigerian air raid warden who takes on a protective role for Georgie and , ideally , illuminates Georgie 's understanding of his own Blackness . As played by the musician Benjamin Clementine , Ife -- whose name , we are told , is Nigerian for " love " -- is a welcome presence ; he 's based on a real-life figure , which makes his mechanical treatment at the hands of the filmmakers that much more frustrating . Despite Clementine 's lovely performance , the character comes off as a simple prop to occupy the movie 's time and to score a rhetorical point . <p> There 's a way to successfully dramatize the ambient anxieties and survival instincts of wartime and even turn them into rollicking entertainment , as in Paul Verhoeven 's brilliant Black Book . Unfortunately , the movie that Blitz recalls most is Sam Mendes 's 1917 , which is not a compliment . McQueen is a considerably better filmmaker than Sam Mendes , but their weaknesses are strangely simpatico , including a need to amp the intensity of every episode in a way that kills the actual tone . Blitz 's screenplay has been scrupulously researched so that nearly everything we see has a factual basis , including the scenes featuring the short-statured socialist firebrand Mickey " The Midget " Davies ( finely played Leigh Gill ) and a grotesque showstopper in which a club full of dead aristocrats -- killed instantly from shock in a bomb blast -- are stripped of their belongings and puppeteered postmortem by a group of pickpockets straight out of Oliver Twist ( or Les Miz ) . Unfortunately , McQueen 's approach transforms lively , stranger-than-fiction anecdotes into a string of clich ? s . The director 's epic 2023 documentary Occupied City , which juxtaposes modern-day footage of Amsterdam with a voice-over describing what happened in those same spaces during Nazi occupation , does considerably more to bring the audience inside the horror of life during wartime . McQueen is better off using spectacle as a structuring absence instead of trying to outdo Spielberg at his own game . <p> To return to the question of Blitz'sending : McQueen prefigures his coda with black-and-white images of a field of daisies sourced from the work of the great surrealist artist Man Ray , specifically his 1926 experimental short Emak Bakia . Their inclusion complicates the conventionality of the film 's language , but only to a point ; it 's just as easy to see McQueen 's nod to Man Ray as a kind of artistic get-out-of-jail-free card , dealt to keep his film from being pigeonholed as the luxuriously subsidized awards season contender it frequently plays like . The emotions that flow forth at the close of Blitz are real . " We need never be ashamed of our tears , " wrote Dickens in Great Expectations . Still , McQueen 's shameless campaign on our collective nasolacrimal ducts bears scrutiny . Blitz knows what it 's doing and why , but its compromises may be more self-deceiving than subversive . Cloaking himself more heavily than ever in populist hand-me-downs , McQueen gets swallowed up by his own brilliant disguise . 
@@118365451 <h> Trump warns there will be ' ALL HELL TO PAY ' if Hamas hostages are n't released before his inauguration <p> President-elect Donald Trump warned Monday there will be " all hell to pay " in the Middle East if Hamas does not release every one of the remaining hostages in Gaza before his inauguration next month . <p> Trump , who has previously demanded Israel find a way to end the war in Gaza before the start of his term , issued his strongest threat yet against the Palestinian terrorists , warning that America would get directly involved in the war if his demands are not met . <p> " Everybody is talking about the hostages who are being held so violently , inhumanely , and against the will of the entire World , in the Middle East -- But it 's all talk , and no action ! " Trump wrote on Truth Social . <p> The hostages have been in Gaza for 423 days , prompting near-daily demonstrations in Tel Aviv in Israel . AFP via Getty Images <p> " Please let this TRUTH serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " he said . <p> " Those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America . RELEASE THE HOSTAGES NOW ! " <p> Trump 's warning came hours after the Israel Defense Forces confirmed that New Yorker Omer Neutra , 21 , was killed by Hamas during the Oct. 7 , 2023 , terrorist attack on Israel . <p> Neutra , an Israeli-American citizen from Plainview on Long Island , was believed to be alive until the IDF revealed he was among the 35 people whose bodies are still being held in Gaza along with the 62 living hostages . <p> Hamas is still holding the bodies of three other Israeli-Americans , as well as three Israeli-Americans believed to be alive . <p> The Biden administration , which has tried for a year to broker a cease-fire agreement to free the hostages , will likely be unable to secure the captives ' freedmon by the end of his term next month . <p> The war has also taken its toll on thousands of Palestinian civilians caught in the middle of the deadly conflict . Majdi **27;655;TOOLONG <p> During Trump 's recent conversation with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , the president-elect allegedly gave Israel the hard deadline to end the war by Jan. 20 , 2025 , according to the Times of Israel . <p> Trump suggested Israel could maintain troops in the area past January -- a condition Hamas has described as a nonstarter -- so long as Israeli leaders officially declared an end to the conflict , according to the outlet . 
@@118365458 <p> President-elect Donald Trump greets Elon Musk as he arrives to attend a viewing of the launch of the sixth test flight of the SpaceX Starship rocket on November 19 , 2024 , in Brownsville , Texas . Getty Images <h> Thanks for signing up ! <p> But I can say this : In the 18 years I 've known him , he 's never sounded happier , more relaxed , or so laser-focused on the incredible opportunity he now has , to become what he 'd really like to be -- and that 's one of America 's historically great presidents . <p> His chaotic first term , which delivered many good things , was marred by enraged mass protests at his shocking win , a prolonged war with mainstream media intent on nailing him for bogus " Russia collusion " bulls -- t that never actually happened , and the horrendous scenes at the Capitol on January 6 , 2021 , <p> President Biden accompanied by his son Hunter Biden and his grandson Beau leave a bookstore as they walk in downtown Nantucket , Mass. , Friday , Nov. 29 , 2024 . AP <p> For four years , Trump was forced to fight a relentless war of attrition on multiple fronts that often brought out the worst in him . <p> Then he lost the 2020 election -- although he 'll never admit it -- and by early 2022 , he seemed a completely busted flush with nobody other than him believing he had any chance of becoming president again . <h> See Also <p> But that turned out to be a massive underestimation of the collective power of Trump 's other character traits : resilience , determination , the skin of a rhino and a ferocious , never-give-up worth ethic . <p> Yet ultimately , I believe it was Trump himself who won the 2024 election through the sheer force of his personality . <p> From the way he turned his court appearances into raging mini-rallies , to the way he stood back up and shouted , " Fight ! Fight ! Fight ! " seconds after he was struck by an assassin 's bullet , Trump showed an extraordinary mental strength and high level of personal courage that resonated powerfully with the electorate . <p> Donald Trump is seen with blood on his face and surrounded by Secret Service agents as he is taken off the stage at a campaign event at Butler Farm Show Inc. , in Butler , Pa. , on July 13 , 2024 . AFP via Getty Images <h> See Also <p> And I think Trump 's four years OUT of office was the best thing that could have happened to him , as it made him think long and hard about what worked -- and did n't work -- in his first term . <p> Even his haters have been nullified . <p> The only protest there 's been this time is a bunch of 20 liberal lunatics huddling by Lake Michigan to literally howl into the wind . <p> Of course , Trump must now deliver on his promises to get America 's economy roaring again , to fix the illegal immigration crisis , to reduce violent crime and to resolve the wars in Ukraine and Gaza . <p> But what 's clear from his cabinet nominations is that he 's learned his lesson from 2016 and is going to trust his gut , shun establishment types with their own agendas , and surround himself with intensely loyal people who 've been successful in many different fields . <p> At the end of our chat , Trump chuckled : " Piers , you 're a good guy , and you have n't changed , though you do have your bad moments too ... " <p> It was my turn to chuckle : " Do n't we all , Mr. President ... " <p> He laughed . " True , very true ! " <p> If he curbs the frequency of those bad moments and sticks to the big picture that he was elected on , Donald J. Trump has every chance of becoming one of America 's most transformative and greatest presidents . <h> Video <p> President-elect Donald Trump greets Elon Musk as he arrives to attend a viewing of the launch of the sixth test flight of the SpaceX Starship rocket on November 19 , 2024 , in Brownsville , Texas . Getty Images <p> Republican presidential candidate former President Donald Trump is surrounded by Secret Service agents after an assassination attempt at a campaign rally in Butler , Pa. , July 13 , 2024 . AP <p> President Biden accompanied by his son Hunter Biden and his grandson Beau leave a bookstore as they walk in downtown Nantucket , Mass. , Friday , Nov. 29 , 2024 . AP <p> Donald Trump is seen with blood on his face and surrounded by Secret Service agents as he is taken off the stage at a campaign event at Butler Farm Show Inc. , in Butler , Pa. , on July 13 , 2024 . AFP via Getty Images 
@@118365858 <p> The Israeli military said Plainview native Omer Neutra , a soldier who was believed to have been captured alive by Hamas in its Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack , was killed that day , with his body taken into the Gaza Strip . <p> In a statement on X , the Israel Defense Forces said it confirmed his death " based on intelligence . " The 21-year-old Israeli-American was a platoon commander in the IDF , according to the statement , which included an undated photograph and the traditional Jewish phrase used to express condolences after a death : " May his memory be a blessing . " <p> The IDF press office did not respond to emailed questions about the nature of the intelligence or the location of Neutra 's remains , but Sen. Chuck Schumer 's office said that Hamas had Neutra 's body . <p> Neutra was one of seven American Israelis believed to have been still held in Gaza , four of whom are now said to be dead . Hamas released a video of one , Edan Alexander , over the weekend , indicating he was still alive . <p> Neutra , a 2019 graduate of the Schechter School of Long Island and the grandson of Holocaust survivors , had deferred college to enlist in the IDF , his family has said . He was serving near the Gaza border , where he was in charge of a small base , when Hamas attacked Israel . <p> Sign up for the Nassau news this week newsletter <p> The biggest news , politics and crime stories in Nassau County , in your inbox every Friday at noon . <p> For more than a year since then , his parents , Ronen and Orna , led a public campaign for their son 's freedom . They spoke at protests in the U.S. and Israel , addressed the Republican National Convention this year and kept up ties with the Biden administration in their crusade to secure their son 's release . <p> In a statement Monday , President Joe Biden said he and first lady Jill Biden were " devastated and outraged " to learn of Neutra 's death . <p> " A Long Island native , Omer planned to return to the United States for college . He dreamed of dedicating himself to building peace , " the statement said . " To all the families of those still held hostage : We see you . We are with you . And I will not stop working to bring your loved ones back home where they belong . " <p> Gov . Kathy Hochul , who had issued a statement on Thanksgiving calling for the safe return of Neutra and others taken by Hamas , followed it up with a post on X : " We just learned that this prayer could n't be answered for the family of Omer Neutra . Omer was barbarically murdered by Hamas in the Oct. 7 attacks . We pray that his body can be returned to his family , who have been speaking out for him &amp; all hostages since that horrific day . " <p> State facilities will lower flags to half-staff on the day of Neutra 's funeral , according to Hochul 's office . That date will be selected by the Neutra family and publicly announced in coming days . <p> Schumer , in a statement , said he was " devastated and heartbroken " and that he was " fighting to bring Omer 's remains " and the 100 remaining Hamas hostages home . Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand , in a statement , said Neutra 's " heroism and sacrifice will never be forgotten . " <p> Reaction to Neutra 's death was swift on Long Island . <p> " The news brought me to tears , " said Rick Lewis , chief executive of the Mid-Island Y JCC , who knows the Neutra family and met Monday with Jewish leaders from the region . " We 're all dumbfounded . " <p> For many locals , Lewis said , the Neutra family " has become the Long Island representation of everything that 's going on in Israel . We want to avoid any more families ever going through the pain and suffering that they 're going through . " <p> Lewis and others had pushed for months for the safe return of the hostages . " We ca n't lose hope , as Omer 's parents did n't lose hope until today , " he said . <p> Orna and Ronen Neutra , the parents of Omer Neutra , meet with Rep. Tom Suozzi in Chicago in August , hoping to secure the release of their son . Credit : Newsday/William Perlman <p> Rep. Tom Suozzi ( D-Glen Cove ) said Neutra 's family had lived with " alternating deep sorrow and hopefulness , crushing anxiety and steely determination ... now they must face the deep grief of the loss of their son and brother . " <p> Nassau County Executive Bruce Blakeman , in an email from a representative , hailed Neutra as a " cherished Nassau County resident , a fellow American , and a dedicated IDF soldier , whose life was tragically cut short by acts of unimaginable terror . " <p> Oyster Bay Town Supervisor Joseph Saladino ordered flags on town property to be flown at half-staff in honor of the Plainview resident . <p> Weeks before the announcement of Neutra 's death , his father , Ronen Neutra , said the last year of uncertainty about his safety and whereabouts had been " filled with agony -- an agony no parent should have to go through . " <p> The war in Gaza began when Hamas-led militants stormed into southern Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , killing some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and taking around 250 hostage . About 100 are still held inside Gaza , around two-thirds believed to be alive . <p> Israel 's ongoing retaliatory offensive has killed at least 44,429 Palestinians , more than half of them women and children , according to Gaza 's Health Ministry , which does not say how many of the dead were combatants . Israel says it has killed over 17,000 militants , without providing evidence . <p> The war has destroyed vast areas of the coastal enclave and displaced 90% of the population of 2.3 million , often multiple times . <p> Neutra joined the IDF after graduating from the Schechter School of Long Island in Williston Park in 2019 , his family told Newsday after the Oct. 7 attack . " He 's an American ; a good Jewish boy who loves both the American country and the Israeli country , " Ronen Neutra told Newsday at the time . " Everybody loves him , a smart , cool kid that was taken by Hamas . And , we need to bring him home . " <p> Omer was raised on Long Island , the oldest of two sons . His parents have dual American-Israeli citizenship . <p> Neutra was an honors student , the captain of his basketball , soccer and volleyball teams and highly active in several Jewish community organizations , according to his parents . He served as regional president of the Metropolitan New York Region of United Synagogue Youth . <p> Late last summer , Hamas killed another Israeli-American hostage , Hersh Goldberg-Polin , along with five other captives , whose bodies the Israeli military said it recovered . <p> The Biden administration said it is making another push for a ceasefire and the release of the remaining hostages , after nearly a year of indirect negotiations between Israel and Hamas repeatedly stalled . 
@@118367445 <h> Israel and the ICC : A legal scholar 's response to The Washington Post <p> FILE PHOTO : The International Criminal Court building is seen in The Hague , Netherlands , January 16 , 2019 . REUTERS/Piroschka van de Wouw/File Photo ( Reuters ) <p> On November 24 , The Washington Post 's editorial board published a piece in which it laid out its views on the arrest warrants for Israeli officials recently issued by the Pre-Trial Chamber of the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) . <p> Reading it as a legal scholar , I found it full of misinformation and misrepresentation of facts . It is unclear whether the editorial was an attempt to mislead the readers or reflected the board 's significant lack of knowledge and research abilities on ICC-related matters -- or both . <p> In any case , the article merits a response that lays out the facts and points out the misrepresentation . <h> Did the ICC ignore other grave situations ? <p> At the outset , the article suggests that the ICC has failed to address international crimes in Syria , Myanmar and Sudan . This is manifestly nonfactual . <p> The default grounds for the ICC to exercise jurisdiction is the commission of international crimes on the territory or by the nationals of either a state party to the ICC or a non-state party that has accepted the jurisdiction of the court . The three states referred to neither joined the ICC nor accepted its jurisdiction . <p> Advertisement <p> The court exercises jurisdiction in Sudan based on a United Nations Security Council resolution that referred the case to the court in 2005 -- as is its right under the Rome Statute , the treaty that established the ICC . Since then , the ICC has actively engaged with the situation in Sudan , issuing seven arrest warrants and pursuing six cases . <p> The Post is concerned with the conduct of the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces but mentions nowhere in its editorial that Ali Muhammed Ali Abd-Al-Rahman , one of the leaders of its constituent militia , the Janjaweed , is already in ICC custody and standing trial . It also omits ICC Prosecutor Karim Khan 's assertion that his office is still investigating ongoing crimes . <p> On Myanmar , the Office of the Prosecutor opened preliminary examinations in 2018 . After only one year , the Pre-Trial Chamber authorised it to open an investigation . On November 27 , the Office of the Prosecutor applied for an arrest warrant against the head of Myanmar 's military government , Min Aung Hlaing . <p> To do this , both Khan 's office and the Pre-Trial Chamber pushed the limits of the legal text to adopt unorthodox , precedent-setting interpretations of the law with a view to overcoming the jurisdictional challenge in the absence of a UN Security Council referral . <p> Both ICC organs concurred that although the crimes of " deportation " and " persecution " were perpetrated by nationals of a non-state party and on the territory of a non-state party ( Myanmar ) , the " conduct " constituting the crimes forced the victims into the territory of a state party ( Bangladesh ) ; consequently , the ICC should have jurisdiction because the crimes have been committed ' " in part " on a territory of a state party . <p> Advertisement <p> Despite the lack of grounds to exercise jurisdiction in Syria , former Prosecutor Fatou Bensouda indeed strived to address these crimes . Her office came up with a creative approach to examine acts committed by nationals of states parties but ended up with a very narrow scope of perpetrators and crimes . <p> There is no ICC " failure " to address crimes committed in Syria ; rather , there is a Security Council failure to refer the Syria case to the ICC , as it did with Libya and Sudan . It is appropriate then to criticise the Security Council system , including the United States 's decades-long abuse of its veto powers , for instance , to shield Israel . <h> Should the Israeli system be entrusted with prosecution ? <p> The Post uncritically reproduces a regular Israeli and US talking point : that Israel as " a democratic country that is committed to human rights " is capable of investigating its own security forces . The ICC should not put " elected leaders of a democratic country with its own independent judiciary in the same category as dictators and authoritarians who kill with impunity " , it argues . <p> This argument misrepresents the law of the ICC and conceals substantive facts . <p> Even if Israel and its institutions could be deemed " democratic " and " independent " , international law requires a lot more than that . The principle of complementarity means that the ICC complements , rather than replaces , national jurisdictions . Thus , the ICC prosecutor may intervene only when the state that has jurisdiction is " inactive " in investigating the crimes . <p> Advertisement <p> Complementarity in no way means that the elected officials and independent judiciary of a democratic state shall enjoy immunity from ICC prosecution . Instead , it means that Israel needs to show it has active investigations . The fact of Israel 's inactivity in relation to war crimes and crimes against humanity by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defence Minister Yoav Gallant in and of itself already means that the complementarity assessment has been exhausted and the court may proceed . <p> And even if it were active , Israel would need to demonstrate the willingness and ability to genuinely prosecute the perpetrator and conduct . The law of the ICC allows it to intervene if the " investigative activities undertaken by the domestic authorities are not tangible , concrete and progressive " , as laid out in a decision in the case of Ivory Coast first lady Simone Gbagbo , accused of crimes against humanity . <p> Proceedings designated to shield the perpetrators or crimes in question warrant an ICC intervention . This , for instance , requires Israel to investigate the same person for substantially the same conduct . <p> The Post conceals that for decades , Israel has failed to hold to account its officials and members of its armed forces for crimes . These failures have been repeatedly documented by the UN and human rights organisations . <p> The 2014 UN Commission of Inquiry , for example , addressed the " procedural , structural and substantive shortcomings , which continue to compromise Israel 's ability to adequately fulfil its duty to investigate " . Palestinian and Israeli NGOs have repeatedly scrutinised Israel 's tendency to whitewash its own crimes , and Amnesty International considered " an ICC investigation to be the only way " to uphold international law . <p> Advertisement <p> These reports are in no way unknown or recent . Human Rights Watch , for example , has documented Israel 's failure to prosecute war crimes as far back as the 2014 war on Gaza , the second Intifada , the first Intifada and even the Israeli invasion of Lebanon in 1982 , after which the Israeli government created the Kahan Commission to cover up then-Defence Minister Ariel Sharon 's responsibility for the Sabra and Shatila massacre . <p> The Post 's omission of these facts does not seem to be mere negligence . <h> Do the arrest warrants give credence to accusations against the ICC ? <p> The editorial also claims that the arrest warrants " undermine the ICC 's credibility and give credence to accusations of hypocrisy and selective prosecution " . This maliciously misrepresents the facts to intentionally deceive the readers . <p> There are indeed longstanding , well substantiated and almost undisputed accusations but not of a bias against countries like Israel . During the first 20 years of its operation , the court sought to prosecute people solely from the African continent . As a result , it was criticised for having an " Africa problem " and channelling the " assertion of neocolonial domination " . <p> The ICC 's negligence regarding Western armies ' atrocities was consistently brought up , especially in relation to Palestine , Iraq and Afghanistan . As Valentina Azarova and Triestino Mariniello and I have previously argued in two articles , the court 's action on crimes committed against Palestinians could help it redress its problems with effectiveness and legitimacy . <p> Advertisement <p> As a legal scholar , I have not come across any rigorously justified accusation against the court that it is biased against " elected leaders " of " democratic states " , as the Post suggests . US attacks on the ICC -- starting with the 2002 Hague Invasion Act , which threatens US invasion of any state complying with an ICC arrest warrant for US citizens -- have been crude expressions of US hegemony and unpolished thuggery . <p> Israel itself has engaged in similar activities , as an investigation by +972 Magazine , the Local Call and The Guardian revealed in May . According to these publications , Israel ran a nine-year , state-orchestrated espionage and intimidation campaign against the ICC to shield its nationals from prosecution . <p> In the end , even in its decision to proceed with prosecution in the Palestine file , the ICC is doing the bare minimum of what it should be . And it is not its " bias " -- as The Washington Post argues -- that compels it to act , but rather the Israeli conduct -- its magnitude , degree of cruelty and unprecedented availability of conclusive evidence . <p> The views expressed in this article are the author 's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera 's editorial stance . 
@@118367446 <h> There are no ' humanitarian zones ' or ' evacuation orders ' in Gaza <p> Displaced Palestinians leave an area in eastern Khan Younis in the southern &lt;span&gt;Gaza Strip&lt;/span&gt; after the Israeli army forced them out on August 8 , 2024 Bashar Taleb/AFP <p> As you read this , many families in Gaza are weighing whether they should flee their current shelter and risk having to endure the harsh winter out on the streets or risk being bombed and killed where they are . There is no guarantee that they will be safe from Israel 's bombs and bullets if they choose either option . <p> These are dilemmas no human should ever have to endure , yet recent research by Action For Humanity found that 98 percent of the 200,000 people in the " humanitarian zones " in central Gaza have had to wrestle with them . In fact , according to our findings , more than a quarter of these people have had to move 10 or more times in the past 13 months . <p> Yes , you read that right -- the people in these " humanitarian zones " received " evacuation orders " and had to flee to save their lives , often with just the clothes on their backs 10 or more times in just over a year . <p> The research , based on the testimonies of displaced Palestinians on the ground , revealed that Israel 's " evacuation orders " often give people just an hour , and sometimes even less , to pack up what remains of their lives and run for their lives . And when they agree to " evacuate " , they are often still chased by a hail of bullets as they try to find new shelter in another " humanitarian zone " . <p> Advertisement <p> The devastating details in the report , titled Erasure by Design , make it clear that there are no real humanitarian zones in Gaza and that the " evacuation orders " Israel issues are not aimed at getting Palestinians out of harm 's way . The use of these terms by Israel , its allies and international media serve only to whitewash what is happening before our eyes in Gaza : land grabs under the threat of extermination . <p> The Israeli military is not acting humanely or doing Palestinians a favour when it threatens them with death by bombing if they do not leave their homes and makeshift shelters . It is not driving exhausted , starving people constantly from one place to another under threat of death and maiming , using difficult to decipher guidance , out of humanitarian concern . It is doing so to ensure nowhere in Gaza is safe for Palestinians . It is trying to kill two birds with one stone : creating the illusion of adherence to humanitarian law while laying the groundwork for illegally expanding Israeli territory . <p> This is why we should stop using the language of " humanitarian zones " and " evacuation orders " . <p> According to our findings , a third of Israel 's " evacuation orders " were handed down in the night while families slept . About 85 percent of Palestinians we talked to who are currently sheltering in the " humanitarian zones " in Deir el-Balah and al-Mawasi said they experienced difficulty in understanding the evacuation orders they received at some point in the past year . A further 15 percent said they were unable to evacuate due to disability or caregiving responsibilities after receiving an " evacuation order " . Because Israel rarely if ever provides people with a means of transport or alternative shelter after ordering them to move , its " evacuation orders " are especially meaningless for disabled , pregnant , injured , chronically ill or elderly Palestinians and their caregivers . <p> Advertisement <p> The conditions for those who are able to repeatedly evacuate and move into new " humanitarian zones " are not any better either . They too live under constant threat of extermination and have limited or no access to most basic resources . <p> The food that can be found in these ever-shrinking humanitarian islands in the strip has almost no nutritional value and is rancid to the point of inedible . As Israel turned off the taps and poisoned most wells with its bombs , there is not sufficient water either . <p> Sixty-eight percent of those who took part in our research said they are struggling to access clean drinking water . They say they are going without water for as long as they can and risking illness by drinking any water they can find when they absolutely have to . For nearly 20 percent of the population , this is n't even an option : There 's no water -- clean or otherwise -- for them to choke down . Getting ill from contaminated water can be a death sentence in itself in Gaza with more than 80 percent of the population having no access to healthcare even in " humanitarian zones " . <p> So the reality on the ground is clear : There are no " humanitarian zones " or " evacuation orders " but only threats of extermination and islands of mediaeval suffering not fit for basic survival , let alone dignified living . <p> Israel is treating all Palestinians as subhuman and forcing them to endure conditions fit for the Dark Ages to push them permanently off their land and claim it as its own . It is blocking aid access to North Gaza , allowing in the absolute minimum in other areas and has banned the United Nations aid agency for Palestinian refugees , UNRWA -- the main lifeline for Palestinians -- from operating in the area . <p> Advertisement <p> And it is doing all this while pretending to meet its humanitarian duties under international law . This is happening now . As you read this article . And the world is letting it happen . <p> Action For Humanity 's findings are not anecdotal . It is supported by research by many other humanitarian organisations , the UN itself and most importantly , the firsthand accounts of Palestinians enduring the genocidal actions of Israel . <p> The world can not continue to turn a blind eye to what is happening in Gaza . We have endless quantitative , empirical evidence : Israel 's actions in Gaza have nothing to do with defence or humanitarian concerns . Every action by Israel in Gaza is a tool for territorial expansion , mass displacement and extermination . <p> This is why the world must stop using Israel 's preferred language when talking about Gaza . <p> There are no " humanitarian zones " or " evacuation orders " in the strip . There are land grabs , extermination and atrocities at industrial scale . There is no " humanitarian crisis " in the region either . It is time we drop all the euphemisms that help Israel shield itself from accountability and start calling what 's happening in Gaza what it is : a genocide . <p> The views expressed in this article are the author 's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera 's editorial stance . 
@@118367546 <h> Huckabee As Envoy to Israel Spells End of Two-State Solution <p> Donald Trump 's nomination of former Arkansas governor and two-time presidential candidate Mike Huckabee as U.S. ambassador to Israel during a particularly fraught moment in Middle Eastern politics is a clear signal that Trump bamboozled voters who believed he 'd be less sympathetic to the current Israeli government than Joe Biden or Kamala Harris . Right off the bat , observers noted that Huckabee 's nomination broke the recent pattern of U.S. envoys to Israel being either career diplomats or Jewish . Huck 's background as a conservative Evangelical minister and culture-war enthusiast indicated that Trump understood the largest constituency ( particularly within his voting coalition ) for a hard-line position on Israel 's war in Gaza and its continued occupation of Palestinian land is Christian , not Jewish . But it 's more slowly emerging that Huckabee 's views on Israel and its neighbors are truly radical and unbending . <p> Huckabee has been quoted as denying there is any such people as " Palestinians , " whom he regards simply as Arabs living on land that properly belongs to Israel . Unsurprisingly , Huckabee also has refused to use the word occupation . In his many years in public life , he has stridently and repeatedly opposed the idea of a " two-state solution " if it involves any Arab-governed state within the biblical " Judea and Samaria " ( a term used by the current Israeli governing coalition and also by settler activists ) , which includes the entire West Bank ( he 's fine with a Palestinian state carved out of the land of Israel 's other Arab neighbors ) . <p> Yes , it 's true that Trump , not Huckabee , will set the policies his ambassador will be charged with advancing . But it 's hard to imagine Trump choosing so unambiguous a partisan of Israeli extremism as his envoy if he planned anything short of total support for Bibi Netanyahu and his settler clientele going forward . Huckabee is not some novice whose only views on the Middle East are based on scriptural texts . He has actually made a living leading dozens of Christian-themed tours of the " Holy Land , " and has for years been a recognized leader of the Christian Zionist movement , which proclaims a religion-based solidarity with Israeli expansionist aspirations . <p> Many Christian Zionists believe a definitive Israeli-Arab conflict is a condition precedent to the Second Coming of Jesus Christ , giving them an intense rooting interest in Israeli aggressiveness as representing God 's team in the end-times events that will bring human history as we have known it to a close . Some observers assume Huckabee shares that point of view , though the Arkansan is actually from a background that de-emphasizes Israel 's role in the " end times . " In conjunction with John Hagee , who does believe Israel is part of the Second Coming plan , Huckabee has worked to unite Christian Zionists across such contested theological ground , as Liam Adams recently explained : <p> Huckabee 's nomination also points to a solidarity within the Christian Zionist movement between Christians who support Israel because they believe it helps usher End Times prophecy and those who see Israel as a fulfillment of God 's promises in the past . Huckabee falls into the latter and Hagee within the former , a belief known as dispensationalism . <p> Huckabee 's strong belief in Israel 's claim to all of Palestine as central to an irrevocable covenant with God came through clearly in an interview he recently granted to an Israeli news outlet : <p> According to the Book of Genesis in the Bible , he said , the Jewish people have been the rightful owners of Israel " for the past 3,500 years , when Abraham was handed this deed by God himself , " he said . <p> " So , there are some things that for me as a person of the Book -- who believes the Bible to be authoritative -- that I do n't have an option " to discuss in different ways , he said . <p> " I have to stick to the Biblical language because that 's the language that has survived history , and it really is the language that ought to be the framework for our understanding of this unique little piece of real estate . " <p> So while Huckabee may not be excited about Israel 's immediate future as opening the door to Jesus 's return , he is adamant about Israel 's ancient past as giving Jews an exclusive " deed " ( a term he regularly uses in this context ) to all the disputed land . In his mind , it 's God almighty who rejected the " two state solution " about 4,000 years ago , and because this decision was recorded in Hebrew scriptures that Southern Baptists like Huck consider infallible , it can not be challenged . As a popular conservative evangelical bumper sticker reads , " The Bible says it , I believe it , and that settles it ! " <p> Too bad if you are an Arab , an Israeli who wants peace with the country 's neighbors , or an American whose views will be ignored by Ambassador Huckabee . To be sure , Huckabee has this image as a charming " populist " left over from his first presidential campaign , in 2008 . But his nomination should be viewed as alarming as any of those Trump has made . 
@@118370647 <h> Teenager Injured in Gaza Bombing to Arrive in Orlando for Life-Changing Medical Care <p> Teenager Injured in Gaza Bombing to Arrive in Orlando for Life-Changing Medical Care 17-year-old Hala , who tragically was burned in a recent Israeli bombing in Gaza , has arrived in Orlando to begin her journey of medical care and rehabilitation . <p> Hala and her mother will land at Orlando International Airport . Upon her arrival , a large community of HEAL Palestine supporters and volunteers were at the gate . <p> Hala 's story of resilience has undoubtedly touched hearts worldwide . In the wake of unimaginable trauma , her determination to rebuild her life is a testament to the strength and spirit of Gaza 's youth . <p> HEAL Palestine , a nonprofit organization that provides healthcare access to Palestinian children and youth has facilitated her transfer and treatment into the U.S. , working closely with Orlando medical professionals and volunteers . <p> HEAL currently has 25 injured children from Gaza all over the country being treated , and Hala is part of a delegation of four injured children arriving in CA , FL , and Ohio . HEAL Palestine extends its gratitude to the Orlando community for welcoming Hala and her family with compassion and support . 
@@118388141 <h> American-Israeli soldier believed to be hostage died during Oct. 7 attack , Israel says <p> Omer Maxim Neutra , an American-Israeli soldier , was among those killed on Oct. 7 , 2023 , as Hamas terrorists poured into southern Israel , officials said on Monday . <p> Neutra , 21 , had been believed to have been taken alive to Gaza as a hostage , but the Israel Defense Forces on Monday said he was instead one of the about 1,200 killed during the surprise attack . <p> The soldier , who was from New York , had been a tank platoon commander in Israel 's 7th Armored Brigade 's 77th Battalion . <p> " Omer was a man of values , blessed with talents and a Zionist in every aspect of his being , " Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said in a statement , which he released with his wife , Sara . " He immigrated to Israel to enlist in the IDF , chose a combat path and was chosen to command and lead . " <p> Netanyahu said Neutra , who was a captain , had " fought fiercely " as he led Israeli forces " to defend the settlements surrounding Gaza , until he fell . " <p> In a statement , the Neutra family said it 's " deeply grieving . " <p> " Our hearts are shattered with this devastating news . The Neutra family is deeply grieving and are requesting the public , who has shown great support throughout this journey , to please respect their privacy until they are formally ready to announce the next steps , " the statement read . <p> Israel said it had confirmed via intelligence that Neutra had died during the attack and that his body was still being held in Gaza . <p> Prior to his military service , Neutra had completed a preparatory year with the Tzabar Garin program , where he " loved sports , playing soccer , basketball , and volleyball , and served as the captain of his school 's sports teams , " according to the Hostages and Missing Families Forum . <p> " Family and friends described him as a warm , optimistic , and caring individual who ' lights up the room the moment he enters , ' " the forum said in a statement posted on social media on Monday . <p> Neutra 's parents , Orna and Ronen , spoke in July at the Republican National Convention . They told the crowd of their grief , not knowing for more than nine months , whether " your son is alive . " <p> " We need our beautiful son back , " Ronen Neutra said . " And we need your support -- your support to end this crisis , and bring all the hostages back home . " <p> Netanyahu on Monday said he and his wife shared the family 's " heavy " grief . <p> " We will not rest or be silent until we return him home to the grave of Israel , " he said , " and we will continue to act resolutely and tirelessly until we return all our captives -- the living and the dead . " <p> Rep. Tom Suozzi , a Democrat who represents the New York Congressional district where Neutra was from , wrote on social media on Monday that he was sending condolences to Neutra 's family . <p> " I have prayed for Omer and his family , and I ask all of you to join me in holding the Neutra family close as they seek to find peace and meaning in this tragedy , " Suozzi wrote . <p> Three Americans are still presumed to be alive among the dozens of hostages Hamas is still holding . <p> " We must fulfill the ultimate imperative : to return Omer , and all our abducted men and women -- the living to their families , and the fallen and murdered to be laid to rest , " President Isaac Herzog of Israel said in a statement announcing Neutra 's death . <p> Stay connected with the most up-to-date coverage of the stories that matter . Tune in to WBAL NewsRadio for real-time updates and in-depth analysis . Listen at 1090AM , FM 101.5 , wbal.com , or through the WBAL NewsRadio app . Stay informed , stay ahead . <p> WBAL NewsRadio 1090 , FM 101.5 and the WBAL mobile app . All day , every day : News , weather and traffic . Also , insight and analysis , and the flagship stations for the Baltimore Ravens , the Baltimore Orioles and Navy Football . 
@@118408943 <p> ' Gutfeld ! ' panelists weigh in on President Biden 's visit to Israel and the ' stark ' differences in U.S. foreign policy in the Middle East under Biden and former President Trump . <p> In the waning days of the Biden administration , President-elect Trump is bucking his predecessor 's " do n't " doctrine as a deterrent to foreign adversaries , instead issuing tough warnings before even taking office . <p> " If the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " Trump warned Hamas on his Truth Social account Monday . <p> " Everybody is talking about the hostages who are being held so violently , inhumanely , and against the will of the entire World , in the Middle East -- But it 's all talk , and no action ! " Trump added . <p> War broke out in the Middle East on Oct. 7 , 2023 , when Hamas launched a surprise attack on Israel . Terrorists killed more than 1,100 people and kidnapped more than 200 , with Hamas still holding 101 hostages , including seven Americans , in Gaza more than a year after the war began . <p> The White House and Israeli government have worked for months to secure a hostage release deal , but have been unsuccessful . <p> Trump 's tough language against Hamas , which included warning those responsible for holding the hostages that they " will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America , " stands in stark contrast to President Biden 's " do n't " doctrine regarding the war in Israel . <p> Biden 's common response to deter foreign adversaries from attacking Israel is viewed as a failed policy , with conservative security experts and others slamming the message as weak . <p> " The Administration keeps saying ' do n't ' to Iran -- but then does nothing to impose costs . This weakness means the risk from Iran continues to grow , " former Secretary of State Mike Pompeo tweeted in August . <p> " Well , he said , ' Do n't ' multiple times , and ' Do n't ' is n't a national security policy , " Pompeo added later in a comment to Fox News . " It 's not even a deterrent . <p> " So much for President Biden telling bad guys ' Do n't ' actually being an effective deterrent . Every time he says ' Do n't , ' they do , " Sen. Lindsey Graham , R-S.C. , wrote in a post in April , after Iran launched more than 300 missiles and drones at Israel . <p> " Biden 's approach with Iran and the Middle East is backwards , " Rep. Nancy Mace , R-S.C. , wrote on X. " Now as we risk entering WWIII , the US must stand by Israel 's commitment to democracy . The president must stand firm , and stop coddling Iran immediately . " <p> " I guess Biden 's speechwriters have him down to one word now . At least he can remember it . Worse when referring to the hospital carnage he calls Hamas the other team , " Fox News ' Greg Gutfeld quipped after the war in Israel broke out last year , mocking Biden 's use of the word " do n't . " <p> The nation 's finance minister , Bezalel Smotrich , added , " How refreshing it is to hear clear and morally sound statements that do not create a false equivalence or call for addressing ' both sides . ' This is the way to bring back the hostages : by increasing the pressure and the costs for Hamas and its supporters , and defeating them , rather than giving in to their absurd demands . " <p> " President Trump is working towards international peace . In anticipation of the incoming Trump administration , Iran has called off its reprisal attack on Israel and negotiations to end the war in Gaza and Russia 's war in Ukraine have accelerated . One former NATO Supreme Allied Commander says America 's enemies are ' concerned , they 're nervous -- and they ought to be , ' " the Trump War Room said in an email this week titled " Promises Kept -- And President Trump Has n't Even Been Inaugurated Yet . " <h> Fox News Politics <p> By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button , you agree to the Fox News Privacy Policy and Terms of Use , and agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News . You understand that you can opt-out at any time . 
@@118408945 <p> Hudson Institute senior fellow Rebeccah Heinrichs assesses the state of the Israeli-Hezbollah cease-fire , discusses Syrian rebels seizing parts of Aleppo , and how the U.S. can aid in negotiations to end the Russia-Ukraine war . <p> " President Trump put the emphasis in the right place , on Hamas , and not on the Israeli government , as is customary elsewhere , " Netanyahu said Tuesday at the beginning of a cabinet meeting , according to Reuters . <p> Trump on Monday called on Hamas to release all hostages prior to when he takes office on Jan. 20 . <p> In a Truth Social post , Trump said nothing was being done to free those being held by the Iran-backed terror group since Oct. 7 , 2023 , after Hamas attacked Israel and killed more than 1,100 people and kidnapped at least 250 others . Of the 101 hostages that remain in Gaza , seven are Americans . <p> " Everybody is talking about the hostages who are being held so violently , inhumanely , and against the will of the entire World , in the Middle East -- But it 's all talk , and no action ! " Trump wrote . <p> " Please let this TRUTH serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " Trump added . <p> " This is the way to bring back the hostages : by increasing the pressure and the costs for Hamas and its supporters , and defeating them , rather than giving in to their absurd demands , " Reuters quoted him as saying . <p> Fox News ' Louis Casiano contributed to this report . <p> Greg Norman is a reporter at Fox News Digital . <h> Antisemitism Exposed <p> Fox News ' Antisemitism Exposed " newsletter brings you stories on the rising anti-Jewish prejudice across the U.S. and the world . " <p> Arrives Weekly <p> By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button , you agree to the Fox News Privacy Policy and Terms of Use , and agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News . You understand that you can opt-out at any time . 
@@118411354 <p> SYOSSET , N.Y . -- For more than a year , Ronen and Orna Neutra have held out hope that their son , Omer , was alive , captured by Hamas following its attack on Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 . <p> But Monday , the Israeli military acknowledged the painful truth : The 21-year-old had not been taken hostage , but was killed during the militant group 's surprise attack on the Nova Music Festival that sparked the latest war between Hamas and Israel in the Gaza Strip . <p> Speaking at a memorial service Tuesday at the Long Island synagogue where his son celebrated his bar mitzvah years earlier , Ronen Neutra said he was at a loss for words . <p> Advertisement <p> After spending months telling his son 's story and pleading for his release at numerous rallies in the U.S. and abroad , news of his death " left us breathless and empty , " he said . <p> " For over a year now , we 've been breathing life into your being , my beautiful boy , " Orna Neutra , Omer 's mother , said through tears . " With the hope and love of so many , we kept going and going and going , keeping you alive , speaking your name from every outlet , pushing any hint of despair , not stopping to breathe or to take in the deep pain of your absence . " <p> " Now things are clear , " she told the packed service at the Midway Jewish Center in Syosset . " But not as we 'd hoped . " <p> Nearly everyone in Gaza is going hungry these days . In the north , experts say a full-blown famine may be underway amid aid issues for Palestinians in the Israel-Hamas war . <p> Nov. 22 , 2024 <p> The parents have been a regular presence at protests in the U.S. and Israel . They also addressed the Republican National Convention this year and maintained contact with the Biden administration in their effort to secure their son 's release . <p> Daniel Neutra , Omer 's younger brother , vowed the family would continue to honor his life 's work by continuing to call for the release of the remaining hostages and an end to the war . " It is too late for him , but it was not in vain , " he said . <p> Omer Neutra was born in Manhattan just weeks after the Sept. 11 , 2001 , attacks , his parents recounted during the service , which was also attended by Gov . Kathy Hochul and other local politicians . <p> Trump : ' Those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America . RELEASE THE HOSTAGES NOW ! ' <p> Dec. 2 , 2024 <p> The grandson of Holocaust survivors , he attended a Jewish school on Long Island where he was captain of the basketball , soccer and volleyball teams , they said . He was offered admission to the State University of New York at Binghamton , but deferred for a year and moved to Israel to enlist in the army . <p> Ronen Neutra called Israel his son 's " true love " and said he had insisted on serving on the frontline . His unit was among the first to respond to Hamas ' Oct. 7 attack . <p> The Israel Defense Forces have not said how they determined that Neutra died in the attack and was not taken hostage , as initially thought . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his wife , Sara Netanyahu , said in a joint statement that he " fought fiercely at the head of his soldiers " to defend Israeli settlements " until he fell . " They added that they " will not rest or be silent " until his body is recovered from Gaza . <p> Biden and First Lady Jill Biden said in a statement Monday they were " devastated and outraged " to learn of Neutra 's death . " To all the families of those still held hostage : We see you . We are with you . And I will not stop working to bring your loved ones back home where they belong , " the statement read . <p> Hamas-led militants took around 250 hostages when they stormed into southern Israel , killing some 1,200 people , mostly civilians . Israel 's retaliatory offensive has killed more than 44,000 Palestinians , mostly women and children , according to local health authorities , whose numbers do not differentiate between civilians and combatants . The bombardment and ground attacks have leveled much of the coastal territory and displaced the vast majority of its 2.3 million residents . <p> Advertisement <p> Some 100 captives are still held inside Gaza , with around two-thirds believed to be alive . <p> Neutra was one of seven American Israelis still held in Gaza , four of whom are now said to be dead . Hamas released a video of one , Edan Alexander , over the weekend , indicating he was still alive . 
@@118411940 <h> 8 children wounded in Gaza 's ongoing war arrive in Chicago to cheers <h> The children , between 2 and 14 years old , were evacuated from Gaza to Jordan after suffering extensive injuries caused by airstrikes in the ongoing war . Two will remain in Chicago for medical care , and six will go elsewhere in the country . <p> Ibrahim , 14 , arrived Monday at O'Hare Airport . He lost an arm in a bombing in Gaza and will undergo medical treatment at Shriners Children 's Hospital Chicago . He was one of eight children who arrived in Chicago on a flight from Jordan . Six will go on to other U.S. cities for medical care . <p> After a more than 12-hour journey , eight children who were wounded in the war in Gaza were welcomed to Chicago on Monday afternoon . <p> " It 's a bittersweet feeling , " said Sarah Alrayyes , director of chapter operations for the Palestinian Children 's Relief Fund . " As excited and happy as we are to welcome them here , I know they are coming here with a lot of trauma . They are carrying a heavy load on their shoulders . " <p> The children , who were between 2 and 14 years old , were evacuated from Gaza to Jordan after suffering extensive injuries caused by airstrikes in the ongoing war . With help from the relief fund , the children were approved for medical evacuation that would allow them to receive treatment in the U.S. <p> A large crowd of doctors , volunteers and families welcomed the children at the arrival gate at O'Hare Airport . <p> Six of the children will be stopping over in Chicago on their way to hospitals elsewhere . For two teenagers , Chicago will be home for the next few months . <p> Eight children from Gaza , ranging in age from 2 to 14 , were evacuated from Gaza to Jordan after suffering extensive injuries caused by airstrikes in the ongoing war . <p> Tyler Pasciak LaRiviere/Sun-Times <p> Ibrahim and Jana , both 14 , each lost an arm in explosions from Israeli airstrikes . They , along with their guardians , will be staying with a host family while they receive ongoing treatment at Shriners Children 's Hospital . The last names of the patients and their parents and guardians were not disclosed for their safety . <p> " We 're excited to meet them , " said Badel Almoshelli , who will be hosting Ibrahim and his mother , Amani . " We are glad to be able to help in any way we can given all the tragic events that are going on . " <p> In November 2023 , Ibrahim and his family were sheltering at a school that was bombed . Ibrahim lost his hand in the explosion , but after making it to a nearby hospital , doctors had to amputate most of his arm . The blast also left him with internal injuries that caused the loss of his left kidney . <p> Since then , Ibrahim and his mother have not been able to reunite with the rest of their family . Ibrahim 's father and six siblings remain in Gaza . <p> " I left my other kids behind , but I 'm glad to be here , and I hope that my son gets the treatment that he needs , " Amani said through a translator <p> Jana had gone with her mother to visit her grandparents when an airstrike leveled a nearby home . She suffered injuries to both legs and had to have an arm amputated . <p> A crowd greets a group of young Palestinian children and teens from Gaza as they arrived Monday at O'Hare Airport . <p> Tyler Pasciak LaRiviere/Sun-Times <p> Jana was accompanied to Chicago by her aunt , Islam , after her mother 's request to travel was denied by the Israeli military . <p> Both Ibrahim and Jana hope to receive prosthetic limbs to help them function independently . <p> All the patients will remain in the U.S. until their treatments are fully completed and hope to be reunited with their families . <p> " These children do n't want to leave Gaza , but they have to leave to receive this medical treatment , " said Tareq Hailat , director of global patient affairs with the Palestinian Children 's Relief Fund . " They 're glad to be getting help , but their minds are constantly back home with their families . " 
@@118414153 <p> A woman lights candles at the site where former Hezbollah leader Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah was killed by Israeli airstrikes late September during a memorial ceremony in Dahiyeh , in the southern suburb of Beirut , Lebanon , Saturday , Nov. 30 , 2024 . <p> People gather at the site where former Hezbollah leader Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah was killed by Israeli airstrikes late September during a memorial ceremony in Dahiyeh , in the southern suburb of Beirut , Lebanon , Saturday , Nov. 30 , 2024 . <p> People gather at the site where former Hezbollah leader Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah was killed by Israeli airstrikes late September during a memorial ceremony in Dahiyeh , in the southern suburb of Beirut , Lebanon , Saturday , Nov. 30 , 2024 . <p> Rafi Shitrit speaks with soldiers patrolling the area as he cleans in front of his house during a visit for the day in the agricultural settlement of Avivim , next to the Lebanese border in upper Galilee , Israel , Monday Dec. 2 , 2024 . Israelis are still wary of returning to the north despite the ceasefire with Hezbollah . <p> Israeli troops detain the director of the Turkish hospital doctor Mohammad Samara for interrogation before releasing him , while searching for the bodies of militants in a Palestinian hospital in the West Bank city of Tubas , Tuesday Dec. 3 , 2024 . <p> Mourners carry Hamas flags and the bodies , wrapped with the Palestinian flag , of Akram Abu Arrah and Mohammad Ghannam , both killed in an airstrike Israel said targeted a militant cell , during their funeral in the West Bank village of Al-Aqaba , Tuesday Dec. 3 , 2024 . <p> Mourners carry the bodies wrapped with the Palestinian flag , of Akram Abu Arrah and Mohammad Ghannam , both killed in an airstrike Israel said targeted a militant cell , during their funeral in the West Bank village of Al-Aqaba , Tuesday Dec. 3 , 2024 . <h> A medical director in northern Gaza said Israeli drone strikes on have wounded three medical workers <p> Barbed wires set in an area in front of a house of the Kibbutz Manara , which is located near to the border with Lebanon , in northern Israel , Monday Dec. 2 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Ohad Zwigenberg ) <p> Ohad Zwigenberg - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Barbed wires set in an area in front of a house of the Kibbutz Manara , which is located near to the border with Lebanon , in northern Israel , Monday Dec. 2 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Ohad Zwigenberg ) <p> Hussein Malla - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> A woman lights candles at the site where former Hezbollah leader Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah was killed by Israeli airstrikes late September during a memorial ceremony in Dahiyeh , in the southern suburb of Beirut , Lebanon , Saturday , Nov. 30 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Hussein Malla ) <p> Hussein Malla - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> People gather at the site where former Hezbollah leader Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah was killed by Israeli airstrikes late September during a memorial ceremony in Dahiyeh , in the southern suburb of Beirut , Lebanon , Saturday , Nov. 30 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Hussein Malla ) <p> Hussein Malla - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> People gather at the site where former Hezbollah leader Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah was killed by Israeli airstrikes late September during a memorial ceremony in Dahiyeh , in the southern suburb of Beirut , Lebanon , Saturday , Nov. 30 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Hussein Malla ) <p> Ohad Zwigenberg - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> A damaged room of a house in the Kibbutz Manara , which is located near to the border with Lebanon , in northern Israel , Monday Dec. 2 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Ohad Zwigenberg ) <p> Ohad Zwigenberg - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> A house is blocked with protective sandbags in the community of Kibbutz Manara , located along the border with Lebanon , in northern Israel , Monday , Dec. 2 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Ohad Zwigenberg ) <p> Ohad Zwigenberg - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Rafi Shitrit speaks with soldiers patrolling the area as he cleans in front of his house during a visit for the day in the agricultural settlement of Avivim , next to the Lebanese border in upper Galilee , Israel , Monday Dec. 2 , 2024 . Israelis are still wary of returning to the north despite the ceasefire with Hezbollah . ( AP Photo/Ohad Zwigenberg ) <p> Israeli troops enter the complex of the Turkish hospital , where they searched for the bodies of those killed in an airstrike , in the West Bank city of Tubas , Tuesday Dec. 3 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Majdi Muhammad ) <p> Maya Alleruzzo - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Destroyed buildings in the village of Kfar Kila , southern Lebanon , are seen from northern Israel , Tuesday , Dec. 3 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Maya Alleruzzo ) <p> Majdi Mohammed - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Israeli troops detain the director of the Turkish hospital doctor Mohammad Samara for interrogation before releasing him , while searching for the bodies of militants in a Palestinian hospital in the West Bank city of Tubas , Tuesday Dec. 3 , 2024 ( AP Photo/Majdi Muhammad ) . <p> Tsafrir Abayov - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Israeli armoured vehicles move on in an area at the Israeli-Gaza border , seen from southern Israel , Tuesday , Dec. 3 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Tsafrir Abayov ) <p> Majdi Mohammed - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Mourners carry Hamas flags and the bodies , wrapped with the Palestinian flag , of Akram Abu Arrah and Mohammad Ghannam , both killed in an airstrike Israel said targeted a militant cell , during their funeral in the West Bank village of Al-Aqaba , Tuesday Dec. 3 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Majdi Muhammad ) <p> Majdi Mohammed - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Mourners follow the funeral of Akram Abu Arrah and Mohammad Ghannam , both killed in an airstrike Israel said targeted a militant cell , in the West Bank village of Al-Aqaba , Tuesday Dec. 3 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Majdi Muhammad ) <p> Maya Alleruzzo - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> An Israeli soldier gestures from his vehicle in northern Israel , near the border with Lebanon , during a ceasefire , Tuesday , Dec. 3 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Maya Alleruzzo ) <p> Majdi Mohammed - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Mourners carry the bodies wrapped with the Palestinian flag , of Akram Abu Arrah and Mohammad Ghannam , both killed in an airstrike Israel said targeted a militant cell , during their funeral in the West Bank village of Al-Aqaba , Tuesday Dec. 3 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Majdi Muhammad ) <p> Maya Alleruzzo - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Destroyed buildings in the village of Kfar Kila , southern Lebanon , beside the separation barrier between Israel and Lebanon , are seen from northern Israel , Tuesday , Dec. 3 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Maya Alleruzzo ) <p> Israeli drone strikes hit Kamal Adwan Hospital on Tuesday , wounding three medical staff at one of the few hospitals still partially operating in the northernmost part of Gaza , the facility 's director said . Dr. Hossam Abu Safiya said the drones were dropping bombs , spraying shrapnel at the hospital . There was no immediate comment from the Israeli military . <p> In Lebanon , a tenuous ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah has held despite Israeli forces carrying out several new drone and artillery strikes on Tuesday , killing a shepherd in the country 's south . Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu vowed keep striking " with an iron fist " against perceived Hezbollah violations of the ceasefire . <p> Hezbollah began launching rockets , drones and missiles into Israel last year in solidarity with Hamas militants who are fighting in the Gaza Strip . The war in Gaza began when Hamas-led militants stormed into southern Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , killing some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and taking around 250 people hostage . <p> Israel 's blistering retaliatory offensive has killed at least 44,500 Palestinians , more than half of them women and children , according to Gaza 's Health Ministry , which does not say how many of the dead were combatants . Israel says it has killed over 17,000 militants , without providing evidence . <p> WASHINGTON -- U.S. forces conducted a self-defense strike Tuesday in the vicinity of Mission Support Site Euphrates , a U.S. base in eastern Syria , against three truck-mounted multiple rocket launchers , a T-64 tank and mortars that Pentagon press secretary Maj. Gen. Pat Ryder said presented " a clear and imminent threat " to U.S. troops . <p> The self-defense strike occurred after rockets and mortars were fired that landed in the vicinity of the base , Ryder said . The Pentagon is still assessing who was responsible for the attacks -- that there are both Iranian-backed militias and Syrian military forces that operate in the area . <p> Ryder said the attack was not connected to the offensive that is ongoing in Aleppo , where Syrian jihadi-led rebels taken over the country 's largest city . The U.S. has about 900 troops in Syria to conduct missions to counter the Islamic Stage group . <p> Dr. Hossam Abu Safiya said the drones were dropping bombs , spraying shrapnel at the hospital , located in the town of Beit Lahiya . There was no immediate comment from the Israeli military . <p> In comments released by Gaza 's Health Ministry , Abu Safiya said one of the injured was in critical condition and was undergoing a complex surgery . <p> " The situation has become extremely dangerous , " he said . " We are exhausted by the ongoing violence and atrocities . " <p> Kamal Adwan Hospital has been struck multiple times over the past two months as Israeli forces have waged a fierce offensive in the area , saying they are rooting out Hamas militants who regrouped there . In October , Israeli forces raided the hospital , saying that militants were sheltering inside and arrested a number of people , including some staff . Hospital officials denied the claim . <p> Abu Safiya was wounded in his thigh and back by an Israeli drone strike on the hospital last month . <h> Israeli court orders Netanyahu to take the stand in his long-running corruption trial <p> TEL AVIV , Israel -- An Israeli court has ordered Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to take the stand next week in his long-running corruption trial , ending a long series of delays . <p> Netanyahu 's lawyers had filed multiple requests to put off the testimony , arguing first that the war in Gaza prevented him from properly preparing for his testimony , and later that his security could not be guaranteed in the court chamber . <p> In Tuesday 's decision , judges in the Jerusalem district court said that following a security assessment , his testimony will be moved to the Tel Aviv district court . Israeli media said the session would take place in an underground chamber . <p> His testimony in the trial , which began in 2020 , is expected to begin on Dec. 10 and to last at least several weeks . <h> Lebanese civilians who came back to war-damaged towns are skeptical that Israel will abide by the ceasefire <p> NABATIYEH , Lebanon -- In destroyed areas of southern Lebanon , residents clearing away rubble on Tuesday said they did n't trust Israel to abide by the week-old ceasefire with Hezbollah . <p> " The Israelis are breaching the ceasefire whenever they can because they are not committed , " said Hussein Badreddin , a vegetable seller in the southern city of Nabatiyeh , which was pummeled by Israeli airstrikes over several weeks . " This means that they ( can ) breach any resolution at any time . " <p> Since it began last Wednesday , the U.S.- and French-brokered 60-day ceasefire has been rattled by near daily Israeli strikes , although Israel has been vague about the purported Hezbollah violations that prompted them . <p> Imad Yassin , a trader who owns a clothing shop in Nabatiyeh , said Israel was constantly breaching the ceasefire because Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu wants to continue the displacement of residents of southern Lebanon . <p> " The Israeli enemy was defeated and the truth is that he is trying to get revenge . Netanyahu is trying to displace us as citizens of southern Lebanon , " Yassin said . <p> They spoke as bulldozers cleared streets strewn with rubble and debris from destroyed buildings . Electricians worked to fix power lines in an effort to restore electricity to the city . <p> Both men were displaced by the war and returned to Nabatiyeh on Wednesday , the day the ceasefire went into effect . <p> Yassin found his clothing shop had been destroyed . He said he would wait to see if the state will dispense compensation funds so that he can repair and reopen his business . <h> Israeli strikes kill at least 9 people in Gaza City <p> Six people , including two children , who were killed when an Israeli strike hit a school sheltering displaced people Tuesday afternoon in the Zaytoun neighborhood , according to the Health Ministry 's emergency services . <p> A second strike hit a residential building in the Sabra neighborhood , killing at least three people , the services said . <p> Israeli forces have almost completely isolated northernmost Gaza since early October , saying they 're fighting regrouped Hamas militants there . That has pushed some families south to Gaza City , while hundreds of thousands more live in the territory 's center and south in squalid tent camps , where they rely on international aid . <h> Israel says it killed a Hezbollah representative to the Syrian military <p> JERUSALEM -- Israel 's military confirmed it killed a senior member of Hezbollah responsible for coordinating with Syria 's army on rearming and resupplying the Lebanese militant group . <p> Syrian state media said a drone strike on Tuesday hit a car in a suburb of the capital Damascus , killing one person , without saying who was killed . <p> Israel 's military said he was Salman Nemer Jomaa , describing him as " Hezbollah 's representative to the Syrian military , " and that killing him " degrades both Hezbollah 's presence in Syria and Hezbollah 's ongoing force-building efforts . " <p> Israel has carried out hundreds of strikes on targets inside government-controlled parts of war-torn Syria in recent years . Israel rarely acknowledges its actions in Syria , but it has said that it targets bases of Iran-allied militant groups . <h> Israeli soldiers open fire inside a West Bank hospital while searching for militants ' bodies , doctor says <p> TUBAS , West Bank -- Israeli soldiers opened fire inside a hospital in the occupied West Bank on Tuesday during a raid to seize the bodies of alleged militants targeted in earlier airstrikes , a Palestinian doctor working at the hospital told The Associated Press . <p> Soldiers entered the Turkish Hospital complex in Tubas after the bodies of two Palestinians killed and one wounded in airstrikes in the northern West Bank on Tuesday were brought there , said Dr. Mahmoud Ghanam , who works in the hospital 's emergency department . The troops briefly handcuffed and arrested Ghanam and another doctor . <p> " The army entered in a brutal way , and they were shooting inside the emergency department , " said Ghanam . " They handcuffed us and took me and my colleague . " <p> The military confirmed that its troops were operating around the hospital searching for those targeted in the airstrikes , which they said had hit a militant cell near the Palestinian town of Al-Aqaba in the Jordan Valley . It denied that troops had entered the hospital building or fired gunshots inside . <p> The soldiers left after learning that the wounded man had been transferred to another hospital , Ghanam said . The soldiers wanted to take the bodies of the two men killed in the strike , but the hospital 's manager refused to hand over the bodies , Ghanam said . <p> About 800 Palestinians have been killed by Israeli fire in the West Bank since Hamas ' Oct. 7 , 2023 attack out of Gaza ignited the war there . Israel has carried out near-daily military raids in the West Bank that it says are aimed at preventing attacks on Israelis -- attacks which have also been on the rise . <p> Israel captured the West Bank , the Gaza Strip and east Jerusalem in the 1967 Mideast war . The Palestinians seek all three territories for an independent state . <h> Hamas and Fatah are near an agreement on who will oversee postwar Gaza <p> CAIRO -- Palestinian officials say Fatah and Hamas are closing in on an agreement to appoint a committee of politically independent technocrats to administer the Gaza Strip after the war . It would effectively end Hamas ' rule and could help advance ceasefire talks with Israel . <p> The rival factions have made several failed attempts to reconcile since Hamas seized power in Gaza in 2007 . Israel has meanwhile ruled out any postwar role in Gaza for either Hamas or Fatah , which dominates the Western-backed Palestinian Authority . <p> A Palestinian Authority official on Tuesday confirmed that a preliminary agreement had been reached following weeks of negotiations in Cairo . The official said the committee would have 12-15 members , most of them from Gaza . <p> It would report to the Palestinian Authority , which is headquartered in the Israeli-occupied West Bank , and work with local and international parties to facilitate humanitarian assistance and reconstruction . <p> A Hamas official said that Hamas and Fatah had agreed on the general terms but were still negotiating over some details and the individuals who would serve on the committee . The official said an agreement would be announced after a meeting of all Palestinian factions in Cairo , without providing a timeline . <p> Both officials spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to brief media on the talks . There was no immediate comment from Israel . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has vowed to continue the war until Hamas is dismantled and scores of hostages are returned . He says Israel will maintain open-ended security control over Gaza , with civilian affairs administered by local Palestinians unaffiliated with the Palestinian Authority or Hamas . <p> No Palestinians have publicly volunteered for such a role , and Hamas has threatened anyone who cooperates with the Israeli military . <p> The United States has called for a revitalized Palestinian Authority to govern both the West Bank and Gaza ahead of eventual statehood . The Israeli government is opposed to Palestinian statehood . <h> Palestinians get food aid in central Gaza , some for the first time in months <p> NUSEIRAT REFUGEE CAMP , Gaza Strip -- Palestinians lined up for bags of flour distributed by the U.N . in central Gaza on Tuesday morning , some of them for the first time in months amid a drop in food aid entering the territory . <p> The U.N . agency for Palestinian refugees , known as UNRWA , gave out one 25-kilogram flour bag ( 55 pounds ) to each family of 10 at a warehouse in the Nuseirat refugee camp , as well as further south in the city of Khan Younis . <p> Jalal al-Shaer , among the dozens receiving flour at the Nuseirat warehouse , said the bag would last his family of 12 for only two or three days . <p> " The situation for us is very difficult , " said another man in line , Hammad Moawad . " There is no flour , there is no food , prices are high ... We eat bread crumbs . " He said his family had n't received a flour allotment in five or six months . <p> COGAT , the Israeli army body in charge of humanitarian affairs , said it facilitated entry of a shipment of 600 tons of flour on Sunday for the World Food Program . Still , the amount of aid Israel has allowed into Gaza since the beginning of October has been at nearly the lowest levels of the 15-month-old war . <p> UNRWA 's senior emergency officer Louise Wateridge told The Associated Press that the flour bags being distributed Tuesday were not enough . <p> " People are getting one bag of flour between an entire family and there is no certainty when they 'll receive the next food , " she said . <p> Wateridge added that UNRWA has been struggling like other humanitarian agencies to provide much needed supplies across the Gaza Strip . The agency this week announced it was stopping delivering aid entering through the main crossing from Israel , Kerem Shalom , because its convoys were being robbed by gangs . UNRWA has blamed Israel in large part for the spread of lawlessness in Gaza . <p> The International Criminal Court is seeking to arrest Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his former defense minister over accusations of using " starvation as a method of warfare " by restricting humanitarian aid into Gaza . Israel rejects the allegations and says it has been working hard to improve entry of aid . <h> Netanyahu vows an ' iron fist ' against Hezbollah if they break the ceasefire , and thanks Trump for tough talk on Gaza hostages <p> JERUSALEM -- Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says the war is n't over against Hezbollah and vowed to use " an iron fist " against the Lebanese militant group for any perceived violations of a week-old ceasefire . <p> " At the moment we are in a ceasefire , I note -- a ceasefire , not the end of the war , " Netanyahu said at the start of the government meeting Tuesday . He said the military would retaliate for " any violation -- minor or major . " <p> Netanyahu also thanked U.S. President-elect Donald Trump for his recent demands for Hamas to release the remaining Israeli hostages in Gaza . Trump posted on social media Monday that if the hostages are not freed before he takes office in January there would be " HELL TO PAY . " <p> Netanyahu convened Tuesday 's meeting in northern Israel , where around 45,000 Israelis had been displaced by the war as of last week , according to the prime minister 's office . Netanyahu said the government was focused on getting them back in their homes and rehabilitating the area . <h> Germany arrests a Lebanese man accused of being a member of Hezbollah <p> BERLIN -- German authorities have arrested a Lebanese man accused of being a member of Hezbollah and working for groups controlled by the militant organization in Germany . <p> Federal prosecutors said the suspect , identified only as Fadel R. in line with German privacy rules , was arrested in the Hannover region on Tuesday . The man is suspected of membership in a foreign terrorist organization and is not accused of direct involvement in any violence . <p> Prosecutors said he joined Hezbollah in the summer of 2008 or earlier and took part in leadership training courses in Lebanon . From 2009 , he allegedly had leadership duties in two groups controlled by Hezbollah in the Hannover area , organizing appearances by preachers close to the militants . <p> According to prosecutors , he was briefly a correspondent for a Hezbollah media outlet in 2017 and was tasked with coordinating building work at a mosque . <p> Germany is a staunch ally of Israel . It is also home to a Lebanese immigrant community of more than 100,000 . <h> Lebanese army launches recruitment drive to bolster presence in the south <p> BEIRUT -- The Lebanese army is looking for more recruits as it beefs up its presence in southern Lebanon after the Israel-Hezbollah ceasefire . <p> Lebanon 's army is a respected national institution that kept to the sidelines during the nearly 14-month conflict . <p> During an initial 60-day truce , thousands of Lebanese troops are supposed to deploy in southern Lebanon , where U.N . peacekeepers also have a presence . Hezbollah militants are to pull back from areas near the border as Israel withdraws its ground forces . <p> The army said those interested in joining up have a one-month period to apply , starting Tuesday . <p> The Lebanese army has about 80,000 troops , with around 5,000 of them deployed in the south . <h> Drone strike hits car in Damascus , Syrian news agency says <p> DAMASCUS , Syria -- Syria 's state news agency says a drone strike hit a car in a suburb of the capital , Damascus , killing one person . <p> The agency did not give further details or say who was killed . <p> It said the attack occurred Tuesday on the road leading to the Damascus International Airport south of the city . <p> The area is known to be home to members of Iran-backed militant groups . Israel is believed to have carried out a number of strikes in the area in recent months as it has battled Iran-backed Hezbollah in neighboring Lebanon . Israeli officials rarely acknowledge such strikes . <h> Israel warns the Lebanese state over ceasefire <p> JERUSALEM -- Israel 's defense minister warned that if the shaky ceasefire with Hezbollah collapses , Israel will widen its strikes and target the Lebanese state itself . <p> He spoke the day after Israel carried out a wave of airstrikes that killed nearly a dozen people . Those strikes came after the Lebanese militant group fired a volley of projectiles as a warning over what it said were previous Israeli violations . <p> Speaking to troops on the northern border Tuesday , Defense Minister Israel Katz said any violations of the agreement would be met with " a maximum response and zero tolerance . " <p> He said if the war resumes , Israel will widen its strikes beyond the areas where Hezbollah 's activities are concentrated , and " there will no longer be an exemption for the state of Lebanon . " <p> During the 14-month conflict between Israel and Hezbollah , which came to an end last week with a ceasefire brokered by the United States and France , Israel largely refrained from striking critical infrastructure or the Lebanese armed forces , who kept to the sidelines . <p> The ceasefire agreement that took effect last week gives 60 days for Israel to withdraw its forces from Lebanon and for Hezbollah militants to relocate north of the Litani River . The buffer zone is to be patrolled by Lebanese armed forces and U.N . peacekeepers . <p> Israel has carried out multiple strikes in recent days in response to what it says are violations by Hezbollah . <p> Lebanon 's parliament speaker , Nabih Berri , accused Israel of violating the truce more than 50 times in recent days by launching airstrikes , demolishing homes near the border and violating Lebanon 's airspace . Berri , a Hezbollah ally , had helped mediate the ceasefire . <h> Israeli airstrike in northern West Bank kills two Palestinians <p> JERUSALEM -- Palestinian officials say an Israeli airstrike in the northern West Bank has killed two Palestinians . <p> Israel 's military said it struck a militant cell near the town of Al-Aqaba , in the Jordan Valley . It did not immediately give more details . <p> The Palestinian Health Ministry confirmed the two deaths and said a third person was moderately wounded . <p> About 800 Palestinians have been killed by Israeli fire in the West Bank since Hamas ' Oct. 7 , 2023 attack out of Gaza ignited the war there . Israel has carried out near-daily military raids in the West Bank that it says are aimed at preventing attacks on Israelis , which have also been on the rise . <p> Israel captured the West Bank , the Gaza Strip and east Jerusalem in the 1967 Mideast war . The Palestinians want all three territories for an independent state . <h> Iran 's ambassador to Lebanon reappears after pager attack <p> Mojtaba Amani , who returned to Lebanon over the weekend after undergoing treatment in Iran , visited on Tuesday the scene south of Beirut where Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah was killed in an Israeli airstrike on Sept. 27 . <p> Speaking about the airstrike that destroyed six buildings and killed Nasrallah and others , Amani said Israel should get for its act " the highest medal for sabotage , terrorism , blood and killing civilians . " <p> Amani suffered serious injuries in his face and hands when a pager he was holding exploded in mid-September . The device was one of about 3,000 pagers that exploded simultaneously , killing and wounding many Hezbollah members . <p> A day after the pager attack , a similar attack struck walkie-talkies . In total , the explosions killed at least 37 people and wounded more than 3,000 , many of them civilians . <p> Last month , a spokesperson for the office of Israel 's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said the pager attack was approved by Netanyahu . <p> Copyright 2024 The Associated Press . All rights reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten or redistributed without permission . <h> Watch this discussion.Stop watching this discussion . <h> ( 0 ) comments <h> Welcome to the discussion . <p> Keep it Clean . Please avoid obscene , vulgar , lewd , racist or sexually-oriented language.PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.Do n't Threaten . Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.Be Truthful . Do n't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.Be Nice . No racism , sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.Be Proactive . Use the ' Report ' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us . We 'd love to hear eyewitness accounts , the history behind an article . 
@@118414154 <h> UN watchdog to conduct probe into sexual misconduct allegations against top international prosecutor <h> The Associated Press has learned that a United Nations watchdog has been selected to lead an external probe into allegations of sexual misconduct against the top prosecutor of the International Criminal Court <p> THE HAGUE , Netherlands ( AP ) -- A United Nations watchdog has been selected to lead an external probe into allegations of sexual misconduct against the top prosecutor of the International Criminal Court , The Associated Press learned Tuesday . The move will likely generate conflict of interest concerns owing to the prosecutor 's wife 's past work for the oversight body . <p> Chief prosecutor Karim Khan provided updates on the court 's politically sensitive investigations into war crimes and atrocities in Ukraine , Gaza and Venezuela among other conflict areas during the institution 's annual meeting this week in The Hague , Netherlands . <p> But hanging over the gathering of the ICC 's 124 member states are allegations against Khan himself . <p> An AP investigation in October found that at the same time the ICC was readying a warrant for the arrest of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , Khan was facing internal accusations that he tried to coerce a female aide into a sexual relationship and groped her against her will over a period of several months . <p> The Assembly of States Parties to the Rome Statute , which oversees the ICC , previously announced an external probe into the allegations but had n't said who it would select to conduct the probe . <p> At this week 's meeting , P ? ivi Kaukoranta , a Finnish diplomat currently heading the ICC 's oversight body , told delegates that she has settled on the U.N . ' s Office of Internal Oversight Services , two diplomats told the AP on the condition of anonymity to discuss the closed-door talks . <p> Two respected human rights group last month already expressed concern about the possible selection of the U.N . because Khan 's wife , a prominent human rights attorney , worked at the agency in Kenya in 2019 and 2020 investigating sexual harassment . <p> The International Federation for Human Rights and Women 's Initiatives for Gender Justice , in a joint statement , said Khan should be suspended while the probe is being carried out and called for " thoroughly vetting the chosen investigative body , firm , or institution to ensure it is free from conflicts of interest and possesses demonstrated expertise . " <p> What they described as Khan 's " close relationship " with the U.N . agency deserved added scrutiny , the two groups said . <p> " We strongly recommend ensuring that these concerns are openly and transparently addressed before assigning the mandate to the OIOS , " the two organizations said . <p> Kaukoranta declined to comment when asked about the investigation by the AP on Tuesday on the sidelines of the annual meeting . The U.N . and Khan 's attorney did n't immediately respond to a request for comment . <p> The accusations against Khan surfaced when two court employees in whom the alleged victim confided came forward with the accusation in May , a few weeks before Khan sought arrest warrants against Netanyahu , his defense minister and three Hamas leaders on war crimes charges . A three-judge panel last month signed off on those charges for the Israelis and the sole remaining Hamas leader whose death from Israel 's bombing campaign has n't been confirmed . <p> AP reported that Khan traveled frequently with the woman after transferring her to his office from another department at the ICC 's headquarters . During one foreign trip , Khan allegedly asked the woman to rest with him on a hotel bed and then " sexually touched her , " according to whistleblower documents shared with the court 's watchdog and seen by the AP . Later , he came to her room at 3 a.m. and knocked on the door for 10 minutes . <p> Other allegedly nonconsensual behavior cited in the documents included locking the door of his office and sticking his hand in her pocket . He also allegedly asked her on several occasions to go on a vacation together . <p> After the two co-workers reported the alleged behavior , the court 's internal watchdog interviewed the woman but she opted against filing a complaint due to her distrust of the watchdog , according to the AP investigation . Khan was never questioned and the watchdog 's inquiry was closed within five days . <p> Although the 900-employee ICC has long had a " zero-tolerance " policy on sexual harassment , an outside review of the court 's inner-workings in 2020 found an unacceptable level of predatory behavior by male bosses , a lack of women in senior positions and inadequate mechanisms for dealing with complaints and protecting whistleblowers . <p> " There is a general reluctance , if not extreme fear , among many staff to report any alleged act of misconduct or misbehavior " by a senior official , the experts concluded in their 348-page report . " The perception is that they are all immune . " <p> Although the ICC 's policies have been updated since the report , a 2024 internal reported obtained by AP showed that 30% of respondents to a staff survey reported they had experienced discrimination , abuse or harassment in the previous 12 months . <p> While the court 's watchdog could not determine wrongdoing , it nonetheless urged Khan in a memo to minimize contact with the woman to protect the rights of all involved and safeguard the court 's integrity . <p> Complicating any truth-seeking investigation have been attempts by Israel and others to undermine the court 's credibility . <p> Under Khan , the ICC has become more assertive in combating crimes against humanity and along the way it has added to a growing list of enemies . <p> Last September , following the opening of a probe into Russian atrocities in Ukraine , the court suffered a debilitating cyberattack that left staff unable to work for weeks . It also hired an intern who was later criminally charged in the U.S. with being a Russian spy . <p> Israel has also been waging its own influence campaign ever since the ICC recognized Palestine as a member and in 2015 opened a preliminary investigation into what the court referred to as " the situation in the State of Palestine . " <p> London 's The Guardian newspaper and several Israeli news outlets reported this summer that Israel 's intelligence agencies for the past decade have allegedly targeted senior ICC staff , including putting Khan 's predecessor under surveillance and showing up at her house with envelopes stuffed with cash to discredit her . <p> Netanyahu himself , in the days leading up to Khan 's announcement of war crimes charges , called on the world 's democracies " to use all the means at their disposal " to block the court from what he called an " outrage of historic proportions . " <p> Goodman reported from Miami . <p> Copyright 2024 The Associated Press . All rights reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten or redistributed without permission . <h> Watch this discussion.Stop watching this discussion . <h> ( 0 ) comments <h> Welcome to the discussion . <p> Keep it Clean . Please avoid obscene , vulgar , lewd , racist or sexually-oriented language.PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.Do n't Threaten . Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.Be Truthful . Do n't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.Be Nice . No racism , sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.Be Proactive . Use the ' Report ' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us . We 'd love to hear eyewitness accounts , the history behind an article . 
@@118416053 <p> Pro-Palestinian students hold white t-shirts stating the message , " DIVEST , " as they protest during the UC Berkeley graduation at California Memorial Stadium in Berkeley , Calif. , on Saturday , May 11 , 2024 . Credit : Yalonda M. James / San Francisco Chronicle via AP <p> The BDN Opinion section operates independently and does not set news policies or contribute to reporting or editing articles elsewhere in the newspaper or on bangordailynews.com <p> Sara A. Colb is the deputy director of ADL New England . <p> Last month , the Belfast City Council stepped well out of its local government lane to weigh in on matters of foreign policy , which it is ill equipped to do . ? The council voted , as reported by the Bangor Daily News , " to divest from companies that activists say have contributed to the disproportionate killing of tens of thousands of Gaza 's residents " and " prohibit future investments in such firms for as long as the occupation and attacks on Gaza continue . " ? <p> While the desire to see an end to this war is one most of us share , Belfast 's action to divest , and the Boycott Divestment , and Sanctions " BDS " movement that gave rise to it , do little to promote peace in the Middle East . ? They can , however , cause real harm here at home . <p> For context , it 's important to understand the history of the BDS movement . BDS is an international movement that began in the 2000s , roughly two decades before the current conflict . Under the guise of protesting certain actions of the Israeli government , it is a movement that opposes Jewish self determination on any portion of contested land and aims to dismantle Israel as a Jewish state . At its core , the goal of the BDS movement is to replace much of Israel with a Palestinian state . By delegitimizing and pressuring Israel through the diplomatic , financial , professional , academic and cultural isolation of Israel , Israeli individuals and Israeli institutions , it has increasingly targeted Jews and others who support Israel 's right to exist . ? By insisting upon isolation , and rejecting Israel 's very right to exist as a Jewish state , the Anti-Defamation League warns , BDS 's efforts actually undermine rather than advance the only option for achieving sustainable peace -- a two-state solution . ? ? <p> The Belfast City Council took up the divestment measure after local supporters of BDS " reached out to Mayor Eric Sanders urging the City Council to consider municipal divestment from companies that are described by BDS as ' part of Israel 's prolonged military occupation , apartheid , and genocide , ' " according to the town manager 's report on the Nov. 19 meeting . <p> Such incendiary and inaccurate language can promote a deeply biased and false view of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and current war between Israel and Hamas in Gaza . It ignores the atrocities perpetrated by Hamas on Oct. 7 , 2023 -- the largest slaughter of Jewssince the Holocaust -- as well as the estimated 100 hostages from Israel still being held in Gaza , and holds Israel singularly responsible for all violence in the region . ? Indeed , proponents of BDS were claiming Israel was committing genocide for several years , well before Israel 's post Oct. 7 military operation against Hamas in Gaza . <p> While I can not speculate about the motivations of individual council members in voting for divestment , I can speak to the impact . Delegitimizing the world 's one Jewish nation has consequences for Jews . The vast majority of American Jews and Americans in general believe in Israel 's right to exist . Furthermore , since for the vast majority of Jews in the U.S. and around the world , Israel is an integral part of their Jewish identity , actions that demonize Israel and single it out for unique treatment directly harm the Jewish community . <p> In the year that followed the Oct. 7 Hamas attack , ADL tracked over 10,000 antisemitic incidents in the United States , the highest number ever recorded in a year since ADL began tracking , representing a 200 percent increase over the number recorded in the same period the prior year . <p> At a time of skyrocketing antisemitism , divestment measures risk further exacerbating the hate and isolation that so many Jews are already experiencing . ? Where such action will also have no impact on this war , it simply can not be justified . ? 
@@118422943 <h> Two Iraqi security sources and a senior Syrian military source told Reuters on Monday that hundreds of Iraqi Shi'ite militia fighters had crossed the border late to help Assad 's army fight rebels . <p> By REUTERS DECEMBER 3 , 2024 17:55 <p> People inspect a damaged site in Aleppo , after the Syrian army said that dozens of its soldiers had been killed in a major attack by rebels who swept into the city , in Syria November 30 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/MAHMOUD HASSANO ) <p> Iraq will not act as a mere spectator in Syria , where it believes groups and sects are victims of ethnic cleansing , Iraq 's prime minister said on Tuesday , according to a readout from his office of a phone call to Turkey 's president . <p> Prime Minister Mohammed Shia al-Sudani , who discussed the situation in Syria with Turkey 's Tayyip Erdogan , said Iraq would exert all efforts to preserve the security of Iraq and Syria , according to the official readout of the call . <p> " What is happening in Syria today is in the interest of the Zionist entity Israel , which deliberately bombed Syrian army sites in a way that paved the way for terrorist groups to control additional areas in Syria , " the Iraqi prime minister 's office quoted Sudani as saying . <p> Mainly Sunni Muslim rebels opposed to Syrian President Bashar Assad seized the city of Aleppo last week in their biggest advance in years . Iraq 's Shi'ite-led government has close relations with Iran , which is an ally of Assad , and Iraqi militia fighters have fought on Assad 's side in the war . Syrian opposition fighters stand in front of University of Aleppo , after rebels opposed to Syria 's President Bashar al-Assad said they had reached the heart of Aleppo , Syria November 30 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/Mahmoud Hasano ) <p> Two Iraqi security sources and a senior Syrian military source told Reuters on Monday that hundreds of Iraqi Shi'ite militia fighters had crossed the border late on Sunday to help Assad 's army fight the rebel advance . <h> Iraq 's Popular Mobilisation Forces deny involvement in Syria <p> The head of Iraq 's Popular Mobilisation Forces , which includes the major Shi'ite militia groups aligned with Iran , said no group under its umbrella had entered Syria . <p> The Syrian rebels have said their advance over the past week met little resistance , in part because the most powerful of Iran 's allies , Lebanon 's Hezbollah terrorist group , had pulled its forces out of Syria to battle Israel in Lebanon . <p> Israel , which has long struck what it says are Iran-aligned military targets in Syria , has stepped up such strikes over the past 14 months as it battled the terror organizations Hezbollah in Lebanon and Hamas in Gaza . 
@@118422945 <h> As parishioners of Armagh 's Saint Patrick 's Cathedral were receiving communion , dozens of pro-Palestinian activists silently marched down the aisle . <p> Flags of Palestine and Ireland flutter next to each other over the International Wall in support of Gaza , amid the ongoing conflict between Israel and the Palestinian terror group Hamas , in Belfast , Northern Ireland , March 29 , 2024. ( photo credit : CLODAGH KILCOYNE/REUTERS ) <p> Anti-Israel activists disrupted the Sunday Mass at a Northern Irish cathedral to demand that Christian leaders condemn Israel for " genocide " during its military operations against Hamas in Gaza . <p> As parishioners of Armagh 's Saint Patrick 's Cathedral were receiving Communion , dozens of activists silently marched down the aisle and along the pews with signs that displayed the faces and names of Palestinian civilian casualties of the ongoing war . According to a video published by activists , several protesters stood in front of the altar with signs that proclaimed that " silence is violence " and " Jesus was a Palestinian . " <p> The anti-Israel activists , who shared their messages on an " anti-imperialist , anti-fascist , anti-capitalist " Instagram account , contended that their protest had been well received because they had gathered a sum of charity in their " Palestinian collection . " <h> Sympathy for Gazans <p> An Armagh Archdiocese spokesperson said Monday that while they were sympathetic to the plight of Gazans and all victims of war and violence , it was disappointing that the protesters disrupted the celebration of Mass . <p> " Disrupting the sacred liturgy in any way is upsetting and an inappropriate form of protest , " said the spokesperson.An anti-Israel activist identified as Deidra Linda Murphy challenged those who claimed that it was not appropriate to protest at the religious site during services.Jerusalem Church ( Illustrative ) ( credit : I. H. MINTZ ) <p> " We are a group of cross-community Christians who came here today with our placards , we had a silent and dignified procession at the end of communion , and the placards displayed our failings and what is happening in Gaza , the genocide that has unfolded for 14 months , " said Murphy . " We 're here to know why the Christian churches are silent . " <p> Murphy said that while Christian churches had made strong statements about the Russian invasion of Ukraine , their failures to address the Gaza war similarly was " betraying the faith of billions of people around the world . " <p> The Archdiocese noted that the Roman Catholic Church of Ireland Archbishop Eamon Martin and other Irish bishops had spoken frequently and strongly about the loss of life in the Gaza war , as can be found through " a simple Internet search . " <p> " In his 2024 New Year Peace message , Archbishop Martin highlighted this issue urging the international community to consider if war crimes are being committed with the merciless bombardment of civilians and the effective blocking of humanitarian aid to the defenseless people of Gaza , " said the Archdiocese . <p> " The appalling situation in Gaza needs prayers and concrete action at all levels to end this inhumane conflict . " 
@@118422954 <h> " It 's in the government 's interest to keep the number of suicides quiet , they do n't want it to spread , " said Daniel Sharabi , a Nova survivor who saved dozens of lives . <p> THE SITE of the Nova music festival massacre . The writer asks ' How can we be comforted this year ? ' ( photo credit : Arie Leib Abrams/Flash90 ) <p> Eyal Golan sat at a table flanked by two citrus trees in his parents ' garden in the pastoral community of Porat -- a makeshift office that has become , reluctantly , his command center . Here , he has conducted dozens of media interviews about his sister Shirel , who died by suicide at the family home on her 22nd birthday . <p> Shirel and her boyfriend , Adi Gilad , were among the thousands of festival goers who fled the Nova music festival as Hamas terrorists began massacring revelers on October 7 , 2023 . Of around 4,000 attendees , 364 were killed and several dozen taken hostage to Gaza . <p> Those who survived witnessed extreme violence , including rape and mutilation , and experienced intense trauma after waiting hours , in many cases , for rescue . The Golan family blames the government for not doing enough to prevent his sister 's death , which came after a battle with post-traumatic stress disorder . <p> Initially , Golan wrestled with keeping up the media blitz during shiva , the traditional Jewish mourning period , but his psychologist reassured him that by speaking out , he was channeling his grief into purpose . <p> " I will do everything to be her voice and the voice of her friends who are still living , " he said.Friends and family members of October 7 victims grieve over loved ones ' deaths at the site of the Nova music festival a year after the Hamas massacre . ( credit : CHEN SCHIMMEL ) <p> Those friends , by all accounts , are still struggling more than a year after Israel 's deadliest day . While viral reports of dozens of suicides among Nova survivors are unsubstantiated , survivors , their families and mental health advocates all say that Israel is facing a crisis when it comes to the mental health of those who made it out of Nova 's killing fields . <p> A Nova survivor who asked to be referred only by his initials G.N. said he was aware of " at least another three who are very likely going to commit suicide soon . " <p> " There are so many who are technically still alive but who basically died on Oct 7 , " he said . <p> The government initially offered 12 therapy sessions for Nova survivors , later increasing it to 48 after SafeHeart -- a group formed by volunteer therapists after the October 7 attack that has treated more than 3,000 survivors -- lobbied , and said that even 48 sessions " falls short of what is truly needed . " <p> In a statement issued after Shirel Golan 's death , SafeHeart called for Israeli authorities to do more . " Shirel 's family is right -- the government must step up and do more , " it said . <p> Shirel Golan was hospitalized twice because of her PTSD symptoms . But two months before her death , she stopped leaving the house , refused to seek treatment and , in the days before , " clammed up completely , " her brother said . <p> Golan warned that without additional and timely mental health support , those affected by the October 7 attack risk becoming another " lost generation " -- a generation scarred by war and plagued by widespread disillusionment and a sense of existential loss . <p> " We saw what happened because of Germany 's lost generation after World War I. It resulted in the worst calamity to befall the Jewish people , " he said . <p> Golan said many family members of Nova survivors have expressed a fear of leaving their children unattended , worried they may attempt suicide . " I have heard countless parents tell me that they ca n't leave their child alone for one second , because the treatment they 're getting is just not enough . " <p> Golan claimed that there had been several suicides among the Nova community , citing one estimate that his sister 's had been the 53rd . In Knesset hearing in April , Nova survivor Guy Ben Shimon made similar allegations , saying that as of February , there were " almost 50 suicides among the Nova survivors " and adding that the number had likely since increased . <h> Health ministry statistics <p> But the number was fiercely contested by health ministry officials at the same hearing , with Gilad Bodenheimer , director of the ministry 's mental health division , saying they knew of " only a few cases of suicide . " The ministry also told the Haaretz newspaper that based on its records , Shirel 's death is the only confirmed case of suicide among Nova survivors to date . <p> Neither Bodenheimer nor the health ministry responded to requests for comment on the discrepancies between Bodenheimer 's estimate of several suicides , the health ministry 's claim of only one , and the second-hand accounts from some members of the Nova community . <p> " It 's in the government 's interest to keep the number of suicides quiet , they do n't want it to spread , " said Daniel Sharabi , a Nova survivor who saved dozens of lives at the rave by administering first aid and firing at terrorists from an abandoned tank and since has launched a nonprofit to support his fellow survivors . Sharabi said a member of a parents ' group for Nova survivors had told him there had been " tens of cases " of suicide but said he was not personally aware of any . <p> Efrat Atun , CEO of SafeHeart , said she did not know of more suicides apart from Shirel 's . At a hearing at the Knesset earlier this month , she censured one lawmaker for saying that there were more than 10 suicides in the Nova community , calling it " irresponsible . " <p> At the same hearing , the health ministry and the social welfare ministry warned that there were at least 30 Nova survivors deemed as very high risk for suicide . More than a hundred were currently hospitalized in mental health institutions , the ministries said , but Atun said the number was closer to 150 . <p> Mark Weiser , director of the psychiatric division at Sheba Medical Center , who has researched Nova survivors , cautions against oversimplifying suicide -- which he describes as " rare and multifactorial " -- by attributing it to a single traumatic event . <p> He explained that with around 4,000 people who attended the Nova party , it 's reasonable to expect that several hundred will be significantly affected by trauma . Of those , about 5% -- or roughly 200 individuals -- may struggle the most , a figure that aligns with what is typically seen in trauma survivors . <p> " If several of that 5% are suicidal and are doing too much alcohol and drugs because they 're having difficulty dealing with these issues , those are numbers that make sense , " he said . <p> Defining PTSD numbers in the general population is challenging , with findings varying widely . One study estimated that over half a million Israelis are at risk of developing PTSD , while another put the number at 30,000 . Data from the immediate aftermath of traumatic events offer insights about what can be expected over time . <p> For example , following 9/11 , high percentages of New Yorkers exhibited post-traumatic symptoms . Similarly , a study published in The Lancet 's EClinicalMedicine found that the prevalence of PTSD and depression among all Israelis in the weeks following October 7 nearly doubled compared to figures recorded two months before the attack . <p> According to Weiser , psychiatry allows for different interpretations of trauma : for instance , while one perspective can hold that while a single traumatic event is harmful , repeated exposure may lead to desensitization , another may argue that repeated stress is actually more damaging than a single traumatic experience . <p> " I can interpret everything one way and then flip it the exact other way . But if you 're asking my opinion , the first is true , " he said . " The first time there was an air raid siren , it was really quite frightening . But after the 12th time , you move on . " <p> While he did not downplay the tremendous strain on the healthcare system , citing soaring numbers of Israelis seeking psychological treatment and prescriptions for anti-anxiety medications , Weiser stressed that most Israelis , including survivors themselves , overcome the trauma . <p> Atun rejected comparisons to 9/11 , because the events in Israel were ongoing . " This is n't an event that happened and ended , it 's not like a terror attack where a bus explodes and then it 's over , " she said . " It 's very difficult to measure how many are traumatized , because people are still in October 7 . There are still hostages , there are missiles , there is war . " <p> But she said she disagreed with the idea that PTSD was decreasing over time , noting that in recent months , SafeHeart had experienced a " huge surge " in referrals , starting with the execution of six hostages -- five of whom were Nova survivors -- and continuing through a two-month period of October 7-related anniversaries , yahrzeits , and memorial days . <p> " The cases are getting increasingly worse , " Atun said . <p> A video of Shirel 's friend , Yael Tobol , went viral on social media after she claimed that she " might be the next case " of suicide . Tobol told the Kan public broadcaster that she had tried to be hospitalized but was rejected . <p> G.N. , meanwhile , has been volunteering with the group founded by Daniel Sharabi and his brother Neria , also a Nova survivor . <p> Sharabi , whose best friend Yosef Haim Ohana was kidnapped at the festival and is still a hostage in Gaza , said he was inspired to set up the nonprofit , called A Future for the Survivors and the Wounded , after another close friend attempted suicide . <p> The nonprofit , which is staffed by 70 volunteers , has supported the mental recovery of more than 700 Nova survivors with a range of mental health , economic , and social services , including trauma counseling , financial aid , community-building activities and aiding reentry into the workforce . <p> Sharabi described how many survivors ' lives had unraveled , leaving them without structure , hope , or the ability to cope with constant triggers and uncertainty about the future -- a struggle which in many cases is compounded by drug use , intensifying the feelings of dissociation and despair . " Drugs -- especially psychedelics -- can create a huge mess in the recovery process , " he said . " You need to be a stable and healthy person to do them . Healing like this should be done while clean of drugs , because they just amplify everything . " <p> The exception , Sharabi noted , is in a controlled clinical setting , where psychedelics have been shown to have a potentially palliative effect on trauma . Sharabi hopes to partner with trauma specialists to offer ketamine-assisted therapy to add to the other trauma therapies -- including EMDR -- his group already offers . <p> Hundreds of survivors of the October 7 attacks , including Nova survivors , are also slated to participate in a clinical trial using MDMA-assisted psychotherapy in Weiser 's division at Sheba Medical Center . <p> Sharabi said he and his brother had " found our life 's mission " with the nonprofit . But while he left his job at Israel 's defense ministry to dedicate himself to it full-time , he recently made the decision to begin his undergraduate studies at an Israeli university . <p> " I felt I needed something else , to break away from the constant focus on trauma . Because if you get too wrapped up in it , you risk losing yourself entirely , " he said . <p> The Tribe of Nova Foundation , founded by organizers of the Nova festival , likewise supports survivors and their families , offering mental health services , therapeutic workshops and other weekly community events that provide a space for healing through shared experiences . <p> Co-founder Raz Malka explained that the nonprofit arose from two core realizations : that only survivors could fully understand one another 's trauma , and that the authorities were simply unprepared for the scale of new victims needing care . <p> " I do n't blame the state . There are just too many people who need help , and even if there was no lack of budget , there just are n't enough professionals , " he said . " We 're working around the clock and it 's still not enough . You help one person and another three appear . " <p> Malka said he did not personally know of anyone who had committed suicide . <h> Nonconventional treatment <p> Some survivors have chosen to shun conventional psychological treatments . Tribe of Nova , for example , has a dedicated sports department offering everything from horseback riding to basketball and ping pong . <p> " Before we started the sports department , there were survivors who had n't left their homes for months , " Malka said . " With such a large and diverse group , we need as many solutions as possible . " <p> Earlier this month , the foundation 's soccer team competed in a tournament against teams from other struggling groups , including the devastated kibbutzim , wounded soldiers , and displaced northerners . <p> Others prefer to seek support and grounding through spiritual avenues . At a recent retreat organized by the haredi Orthodox outreach group Kesher Yehudi , held over Simchat Torah -- the date also marking the one-year Hebrew anniversary of October 7 -- Osher Daniel said she gathered the most strength from her connection to God . <p> " More than faith in God , it 's having the faith that he exists in each of us and acting on that , " she said . <p> Kesher Yehudi 's founder and CEO , Tzili Schneider , emphasizes , however , that the group 's mission is not therapeutic . " We are not therapists or social workers , and we do n't profess to have expertise in PTSD or to treat it . " she said . " We empathize -- the whole country is traumatized on some level -- we offer compassion , love and togetherness . The Nova survivors tell us often that this helps them , that it helps with their healing process , which is wonderful . " <p> Osher Daniel , too , has started her own project pairing Nova survivors with one another to commit to weekly phone calls for mutual support . " Who knows if just by simply checking in , we might prevent someone from , God forbid , taking their own life ? " <p> Her mission echoes that of Eyal Golan , who , from his garden office , pledged to honor his sister 's memory by raising awareness to prevent more loss among the Nova community . " If I manage to save just one of them , I 've done enough , " he said . 
@@118422957 <p> One box survived the Holocaust . The other comes from the ashes of the October 7 massacre in the Gaza envelope . Together , they tell a story of resilience and enduring hope . <p> The first Blue Box , completely charred , was unearthed in the ruins of the Warsaw Ghetto following World War II . Found alongside a pistol , it serves as a haunting reminder of the Jewish community 's relentless efforts to contribute to the establishment of the State of Israel , even amid unimaginable horrors . During the Holocaust , the Blue Boxes symbolized a lifeline -- a way for Jews to invest in the future of their homeland while enduring persecution . <p> The second Blue Box , originating from Kibbutz Nir Oz , carries a more recent story of loss and resilience . Manufactured in the 1980s , it was recovered from the ruins of a home destroyed by fire during the October 7 massacre , when Hamas terrorists unleashed an unprecedented attack on communities near the Gaza border . Scarred by the flames , this Blue Box stands as a testament to the suffering and survival of those who endured the atrocities . <p> " These are not just historical artifacts -- they are enduring symbols of the resilience and hope of the Jewish people , " said Efrat Sinai , Director of Archives at KKL-JNF . " Each Blue Box , in its own way , tells the collective story of our people . " A second Blue Box , originating from Kibbutz Nir Oz. ( credit : Avi Hayun/KKL Archive ) <h> A symbol of Jewish unity <p> The Blue Box has long been an iconic symbol of Jewish unity , used for over a century to collect donations for the development of Israel . These two boxes , now on display side by side , bridge the past and present , connecting the horrors of the Holocaust with the ongoing struggles and perseverance of Jewish communities today . <p> The exhibition , hosted at the National Institutions Building in Jerusalem , weaves together historical artifacts with contemporary narratives . It offers visitors a poignant reminder of the endurance of Jewish identity across time . Open to the public free of charge , it invites everyone to reflect on the shared history and unyielding spirit of the Jewish people . 
@@118422958 <h> Maccabi Tel Aviv regains confidence in Euroleague <h> Full team effort in Berlin victory offers hope for upcoming clashes with Paris and Barcelona <p> MACCABI TEL AVIV Israeli-American forward Will Rayman was one of several players to step up for the yellow-and-blue in its Euroleague win at ALBA Berlin . ( photo credit : YEHUDA HALICKMAN ) <p> Maccabi Tel Aviv is gearing up for a pivotal week with two major European games against Paris and Barcelona . <p> These matchups are critical for the team 's standing in the Euroleague , and Maccabi enters with renewed confidence following a morale-boosting victory over ALBA Berlin , 103 -- 85 . <p> First off , Rokas Jokubaitis led the charge early , scoring eight consecutive points and finishing the game with a personal-best 24 points . Next , John DiBartolomeo set the Euroleague free-throw streak record with 70 consecutive makes , eclipsing Kevin Punter 's mark . <p> Wenyen Gabriel contributed across the board with eight points , seven rebounds , three assists , and three blocks , while Will Rayman brought high-energy defense and added 12 points off the bench . Jaylen Hoard shone with 18 points and four steals , while David DeJulius added a solid 14 points . <p> It was a remarkable evening , but one that should be taken in proportion due to the opponent on the opposite side of the floor.MACCABI TEL AVIV guard Rokas Jokubaitis drives against Fenerbahce during the yellow-and-blue 's Euroleague loss this week . ( credit : Rokas Snarskis ) <p> However , a win is a win , and Maccabi needed one desperately in continental action after having dropped four straight contests and seeing its record plummet to 3 -- 8 . Prior to the ALBA game , Tel Aviv 's last European victory had been at the end of October against Real Madrid . <p> " This was a really good team win , " Rayman said following the victory . " And it 's really important for us because we lost some in a row . So it 's good to get some confidence from this win as we look towards next week 's double week . Hopefully , we can build on the momentum from this one . " <p> DiBartolomeo was all smiles after the game as well , " We got off to a good start , which I was happy with , and then we were able to maintain it . ALBA plays very fast -- there are a lot of possessions . They could make a lot of runs , especially in their home gym , and they did exactly that . But we were able to weather it , which I think was a big step for us in our growth as a team . " <p> Both Rayman and DiBartolomeo made their marks in this game -- the former putting in plenty of points while the latter put his name in the history books as Mr. Consistent from the charity stripe . However , the always modest Rayman ( and the same can be said of DiBartolomeo ) wanted to give credit where it was due for his performance . <p> " I just try to help the team in any way I can , " Rayman exclaimed . " Today my teammates were finding me , and I was able to make some shots and play some defense . But honestly , I 'm just really happy with the win . " <p> As for DiBartolomeo , he did n't want to dwell too long on the record-setting night and was more focused on the team taking home the victory . <p> " I was told at halftime , and I do n't like being told in the middle of the game -- I think it 's a little distracting . I was a little worried I was going to miss one in the second half . But honestly , it 's cool to make history . The storyline here is that we were able to get back on the winning side in the Euroleague . " <p> The yellow-and-blue will try to build off this win with a pair of clashes next week at its home away from home in Belgrade . But it wo n't be easy by any stretch of the imagination , with games against the upstart Paris team and the always-dangerous Barcelona , which is coming off a derby defeat to Real Madrid . <p> Maccabi did get to see its fans on Saturday night back at Yad Eliyahu as it defeated Maccabi Ramat Gan . Ultimately , with the ceasefire now in effect in the north and the war against Hamas in the Gaza Strip wrapping up , the club and players would love to get back to playing their Euroleague home games in Tel Aviv . <h> Maccabi fans show support in Berlin <p> However , the Maccabi fans from far and wide showed up in Berlin despite the threats of large anti-Israel protests . This did bring in a significant police presence . Whether they were from Israel , Germany , or elsewhere , the yellow-and-blue supporters showed their love for the team when it was needed most . <p> DiBartolomeo explained : " From the start of the game , when they introduced the club and the players , the support was amazing , and it made me miss our Euroleague home crowd . " <p> Rayman , who has yet to experience a packed Yad Eliyahu on a Euroleague Thursday night , is awaiting that opportunity . <p> " It makes me want to play back in Menora . The fans are awesome , and they all showed up here , which was really fun and gave us a lot of energy . I could n't imagine a full Menora . I 've seen it as a fan at a game , but I 've never actually played in front of a sold-out crowd , so I 'm excited . Hopefully , we can get back there at some point . But I 'm just happy for all the fans that showed up here . It just shows how much they love Maccabi . It was great seeing Israeli flags out there , so it was good . " 
@@118429249 <h> Opinion : I 'm one of the last doctors in this hospital in Gaza . I 'm begging the world for help . <h> Most of the medical staff at Kamal Adwan Hospital is gone . One of the last doctors working there shares his story . <p> By Hussam Abu Safyia For The New York Times <p> Dec. 3 , 2024 , 1:00 p.m . <p> Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza is one of the few remaining hubs for medical services in the area . Since Israel 's war in Gaza began , it has also been a site of conflict itself . The Israeli military has accused Hamas of using the hospital as a base , which Gaza officials have denied , and has raided it repeatedly since Oct. 7 , 2023 . Parts of the facility have been damaged and destroyed from both direct attacks and bombardments occurring nearby . In late October , most of the staff members were detained or expelled by Israel 's military . Few doctors and nurses remain , and they care for sometimes upward of 100 patients . <p> One of those doctors is the hospital 's current director , Hussam Abu Safyia , a pediatrician who is also the lead physician in Gaza for the humanitarian organization MedGlobal . In October 2023 , he wrote a guest essay for Opinion describing the dire situation he was witnessing as casualties mounted during the first month of Israel 's offensive . Since then , the situation at the hospital has become much worse . Dr. Abu Safyia , who is n't a surgeon , has had to operate on patients because of the lack of trained surgeons . He has had to decide who gets treatment and who does n't , given the dwindling resources available . And he has had to navigate a tense situation with the surrounding Israeli forces . He has had to do all this while grieving his son , who was killed in late Octoberof this year and is buried on the hospital 's grounds . Last month , MedGlobal reported , Dr. Abu Safyia was wounded by shrapnel resulting from an Israeli airstrike and required surgery . <p> For a week in October and November , Dr. Abu Safyia sent Times Opinion audio and video messages describing the day-to-day situation at the hospital and the difficulties he and his remaining staff face . Here are edited excerpts , most of them translated from the Arabic . <p> Oct. 30 <p> Yesterday , for the first time in my life , I walked into the operating room to perform surgery , on the stomach of a 4-year-old child whose house was destroyed by bombing . He was bleeding a lot from his stomach , but I somehow managed to perform the operation and thank God I was able to save that child 's life . <p> We are working beyond our areas of specialization because we no longer have a qualified surgical team . We have called upon the world for protection for over 50 days but unfortunately there has been no response . I 'm confounded by this world that claims to believe in humanity and democracy but does not respond . Not even the World Health Organization has any protection here . <p> The human mind can not imagine all the death and body parts and blood that surround us around the clock . But it remains our responsibility to keep on providing humanitarian services . <p> Oct. 31 <p> The situation is very , very catastrophic . Today the hospital was struck . This attack caused damage to the third floor and a storeroom for goods and medical supplies . It destroyed water tanks and oxygen containers designated for the dialysis unit . The engineering and maintenance section was also damaged , which has led to a paralysis of our health services . Four members of the medical staff were wounded as they tried to put out the fire , unprotected and without adequate materials to extinguish the flames . Sadly , they suffered burns of varying degrees . <p> I still have approximately 85 patients , 19 of whom are children , including two newborns . We are now in a phase of simply trying to save as many lives as possible . We watch the wounded die one after another because of the lack of adequately trained medical staff . <p> Nov. 1 <p> These are very difficult days we 're going through right now . The siege is still total over the entirety of the northern Gaza Strip . Barely any medical supplies or medical relief teams are allowed to enter . There are dozens of patients here still awaiting operations , including bone surgery , general adult and children 's surgery and burn reconstruction surgery . <p> We are no longer able to prioritize incoming cases that might require immediate medical attention over others that are arriving around the clock because of the Israeli assaults and bombings in the area . Most of the wounded who actually make it here come on foot . Some , by the time they arrive , have nearly bled out and are in extremely serious condition . <p> Once again , we are asking the whole world and the international community to provide real protection for this health care system . There must be a safe humanitarian corridor that is appropriate for the health care system and that would allow in medical relief teams and medical necessities . <p> Nov. 3 <p> Throughout the night , there have been continuous bombardments and bombings of buildings around the hospital . The explosions have caused significant damage , even affecting the hospital itself . Most of the doors have been blown out , and many of the windows are shattered . This has instilled a sense of terror and fear among the patients . <p> We have not received any medical personnel , and upon following up on this matter , we learned that specialized medical staff were n't allowed to enter northern Gaza . <p> We currently have 120 patients . Today we received six boxes of medical supplies that we did not request . And the food we just received is seven boxes of canned food that will last the hospital one day . <p> This is the scene inside Kamal Adwan Hospital , where patients and children are running in the midst of bombardment of the hospital and the water tanks . Can we imagine seeing this scene at Boston Children 's Hospital or Great Ormond Street Hospital in London or Children 's National Hospital in Washington ? <p> Nov. 4 <p> It is the 29th day of the siege on the northern Gaza Strip . The hospital was attacked yesterday at the same time that the World Health Organization was here to evacuate some patients who would not have been able to leave otherwise . People sought shelter by hiding wherever they could . We still have not received any explanation regarding what happened or why it happened . This deplorable attack resulted in a number of injuries to patients , including women . <p> Just a little while ago we were in the operating room . There was a 13-year-old girl who was already wounded with shrapnel in the abdomen . During this latest attack , she was injured again -- a very serious injury to the stomach . She just had an operation and God willing her condition will stabilize in the coming hours . <p> Droves of people continue to show up at the emergency room . Those who are able to get here might receive medical care , but those who are not able to get here find their fate elsewhere . There are still people buried under the rubble . There are no tools to remove the rubble in order to find whoever is underneath . One finds it difficult to describe what we 're living through , to be honest . <p> Nov. 6 <p> We are still besieged inside the hospital . The hospital was struck for three straight days . The attacks were frightening . The storage rooms and the pharmacy were destroyed . <p> Sadly , this was a ferocious attack that resulted in many injured , including children who were under sedation because they were undergoing surgery at the time . A number of medical workers who had been providing care in the emergency room were wounded . <p> We feel as if the rest of the world is wrapped up in a different world than the one we are in . We are suffering and paying the price of the genocide that is happening to our people here in the northern Gaza Strip . <p> Hussam Abu Safyia is MedGlobal 's lead physician in Gaza . He is a pediatrician and the director of Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza . This essay was transcribed and translated from Arabic by Max Weiss . This article originally appeared in The New York Times . 
@@118430355 <h> A pitched battle to lead Broward Democrats Letters to the editor <h> Share this : <p> Rick Hoye , chairman of the Broward Democratic Party , and Alfredo Olvera , the president of the Dolphin Democrats and state Democratic committeeman . After the bad election results this year , Olvera is challenging Hoye for the chairmanship . ( Sun Sentinel File &amp; Courtesy ) <p> The Democratic Party in Florida is experiencing a perilous decline in voter participation , membership and political victories . Having participated in Democratic organizations in New York , Los Angeles , San Francisco and Washington , I am well acquainted with successful political strategies . <p> In the four years I have lived in Broward , I have seen a visible lack of leadership at the local level , with one or two exceptions . <p> One is Alfredo Olvera , who has demonstrated fundraising and get-out-the-vote acumen as president of the Dolphin Democrats , of which I am a member . In recent election cycles , he implemented strategies that had measurable goals , succeeded in large-scale fund-raising and engaged voters . <p> The time is now for bold new thinking and strategies . Broward Democrats have a decision to make if they wish to increase their victories at the ballot box , and the person to accomplish this is Alfredo Olvera . <p> John Lazar , Wilton Manors <h> It 's Nikki Fried 's fault <p> The article about a Democratic leader moving to oust Broward Democratic Party chair Rick Hoye should have focused on the failures of state Chair Nikki Fried , who promised messaging , merchandising and fundraising and did absolutely nothing -- except send Democratic voters five emails a day asking for money . <p> To add insult to injury , her post-election speech featured the same tired promises . Broward received zero dollars from the state , while local party chairman Rick Hoye raised over $300,000 to fund Everybody Votes events , which started in 2022 . Hoye recruited 1,987 volunteers , hosted 567 events that focused on vote-by-mail , voter registration and connecting with over 2,000 new supporters , 80% of them first-timers . <h> Netanyahu 's leadership <p> The Sun Sentinel editorial hit piece on Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu was inaccurate and not reflective of the reality on the ground . <p> Israel has been fighting wars on many fronts after the brutal atrocities by Hamas on Oct. 7 , 2023 . It has been bombarded daily by rockets . Tens of thousands of northern Israelis have fled their homes and many more have gone to bomb shelters with literally seconds of warning . If the U.S. faced the same pressures , I am sure the response would be as strong . <p> Israel has used 2,000-pound bombs in attempts to destroy Hamas hiding places deep underground . Israel has supplied food , water and electricity to Gaza -- in what other war has a victim state done that ? Thankfully , during this time of war , Israel has a strong leader in Netanyahu . <h> Sloppy on the sidelines <p> The way he dresses for games , he looks like he should be under a bridge holding a cardboard sign that reads , " Anything helps . God bless you . " <p> Peter Eckert , Plantation <p> Submit a letter to the editor by email to **34;1782;TOOLONG or fill out the form below . Letters can be up to 200 words and must be signed . You must include your email address , city of residence and daytime phone number for verification . Letters are subject to editing for clarity and length . 
@@118432753 <p> Palestinian officials said Tuesday that Fatah and the militant group Hamas were close to an agreement on a plan for administering postwar Gaza . <p> The plan would see Fatah , which governs part of the Israeli-occupied West Bank , and Hamas , which has controlled Gaza since 2007 , jointly appointing a committee of up to 15 politically independent technocrats to administer the Gaza Strip . <p> The officials said the plan would follow a ceasefire agreement with Israel . <p> But months of talks brokered by the United States , Egypt and Qatar aimed at halting the fighting in Gaza have yet to yield an agreement between Israel and Hamas . Israel has said it is intent on erasing any vestige of Hamas control in Gaza in the postwar period . <p> U.S. and other officials expressed hope in recent days that a ceasefire deal between Israel and the Lebanon-based Hezbollah militant group could help to push along the Gaza ceasefire efforts . <p> Palestinians walk in a devastated neighborhood due to Israeli strikes in the southern Gaza Strip city of Khan Yunis on Dec. 2 , 2024 . <p> However , new fighting erupted in Lebanon on Tuesday , with Israel carrying out several drone and artillery attacks , including a deadly strike that Lebanon 's Health Ministry and state media said killed a shepherd . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu vowed to keep striking " with an iron fist " against perceived Hezbollah violations of the truce . Defense Minister Israel Katz warned that if the ceasefire collapses , Israel will target not just Hezbollah but the Lebanese state -- an expansion of Israel 's campaign . <p> " If until now we have differentiated between Lebanon and Hezbollah , that will no longer be the case , " Katz said during a visit to Israel 's northern border . <p> The ceasefire deal calls for Israel to withdraw its forces from Lebanon and for Hezbollah to move its fighters away from the border . Lebanon 's military and U.N . peacekeepers are set to patrol a buffer zone between the two sides . <p> Elsewhere , Israel 's military said Tuesday that it targeted vehicles in the Aqabah area of the Jordan Valley in the occupied West Bank , killing three Hamas members it said were planning an imminent attack . <p> Israel also carried out an airstrike in Syria on Tuesday , saying it killed a senior member of Hezbollah responsible for coordinating with Syria 's army on rearming and resupplying the Lebanese militant group . <p> Renewed rocket launches from Hezbollah militants in Lebanon and a wave of retaliatory strikes by Israel are intensifying pressure on the ceasefire agreement . <p> Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) late Monday carried out a series of strikes across Lebanon , accusing the Iranian-backed Hezbollah of defying the deal by targeting Israel with rockets . <p> " Hezbollah 's launches tonight constitute a violation of the ceasefire agreement between Israel and Lebanon , " the IDF said in a statement on its Telegram channel . " The State of Israel demands that the relevant parties in Lebanon fulfill their responsibilities and prevent Hezbollah 's hostile activity from within Lebanese territory . " <p> Israel said its targets included dozens of Hezbollah rocket launchers , terrorist fighters and other Hezbollah infrastructure . <p> Thick smoke rises from explosions as Israeli forces reportedly demolish dwellings in the border town of Khiam in southern Lebanon , on Dec. 1 , 2024 , days into a fragile ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah . <p> Lebanon 's Health Ministry late Monday said Israeli strikes in the towns of Haris and Talousa killed nine people and injured three others . <p> The ministry said earlier that Israeli strikes in southern Lebanon killed two more . <p> The flurry of strikes followed a Hezbollah rocket attack on an Israeli military position in the disputed Shebaa Farms area , which Hezbollah described as a " defensive warning strike . " <p> But despite the revived hostilities and tough talk from both Israeli and Hezbollah officials , U.S. officials expressed hope Monday that a temporary peace will prevail . <p> " Broadly speaking , it 's our assessment that despite some of these incidents that we 're seeing , the ceasefire is holding , " Pentagon press secretary Major General Pat Ryder said Monday during a briefing with reporters . <p> " We will continue to work with partners in the region to ensure that the ceasefire has the best potential for succeeding , " he added . <p> U.S. State Department officials Monday , likewise , said they have not seen indications that the ceasefire is in danger of collapsing , despite accusations by both sides of violations . <p> " This is work that 's ongoing , " said State Department spokesperson Matthew Miller . " We take all of them very seriously , and we work through the ceasefire mechanism that we set up to adjudicate them . " <p> Negotiators from the United States and France have touted the ceasefire deal as a chance to forge a more permanent cessation of hostilities between Israel and Lebanon , and end fighting that erupted following the October 7 , 2023 , attack by Hezbollah ally Hamas on Israel . <p> During its attack , Hamas killed about 1,200 people and took another 250 hostage . There are still about 100 hostages held in Gaza , with about one-third believed to be dead . <p> U.S. President-elect Donald Trump warned Monday on his social media platform that " there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East " if the hostages are not released by the time he takes office on January 20 . <p> " Those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America , " he added . " RELEASE THE HOSTAGES NOW ! " <p> In its counteroffensive in Gaza , Israel has killed more than 44,400 Palestinians , more than half of them women and children , according to the Gaza Health Ministry , which does not distinguish in its death toll between civilians and combatants . Israel , without providing evidence , says it has killed more than 17,000 militants . <p> Hamas and Hezbollah have been designated as terror groups by the United States , the United Kingdom and other Western countries . <p> VOA 's Nike Ching contributed to this report . Some material came from The Associated Press , Agence France-Presse and Reuters . 
@@118460942 <p> WASHINGTON D.C. ? When Tom Durkin was alerted in November 2012 that James Foley , a friend of more than two decades , had been kidnapped by ISIS while working as a freelance war correspondent in northwest Syria , he went to work with a group of friends to try and bring Foley home . <p> On Aug.19 , 2014 , Durkin received a text . It read , " I 'm so sorry about what just happened . " <p> " I just knew what I was going to find out . " <p> Durkin flipped on his television and saw an image of his longtime friend kneeling in the sand moments before he was beheaded . <p> Now details for a new memorial in the nation 's capital honoring people like Foley who lost their lives while working in journalism are being shared with the public . The Fallen Journalists Memorial , planned to be completed in 2028 , will be located on the National Mall near the U.S. Capitol . <p> At least 3,100 journalists have been killed around the world since 1837 according to a Capital News Service analysis of databases of fallen journalists maintained by the Committee to Protect Journalists ( CPJ ) , a nonprofit that promotes press freedom and defends the rights of journalists , and the Freedom Forum , the nonprofit organization that operated the Newseum in Washington , D.C. , prior to its closure at the end of 2019 . Nearly 90% of those recorded deaths have occurred over the last 50 years . <p> The databases created by both organizations are a result of extensive research into each reported death and require verification before names can be added to their lists , though their parameters are different . The Freedom Forum 's database extends as far back as 1837 ( and concludes in 2019 ) , and includes names of individuals tied to newsrooms who died while in the field or otherwise as a result of their work , while CPJ 's efforts began in 1992 and includes only journalists confirmed murdered in direct reprisal for their work ; in combat or crossfire ; or while carrying out a dangerous assignment . <p> When the Newseum closed , the country lost its only memorial commemorating journalists who lost their lives as a result of their work . Journalist fatalities reached a high in 2017 with 126 recorded fatalities before falling below 50 deaths per year from 2019 through 2022 , according to the CNS analysis . <p> " I commend people , especially young people , that still are determined to be journalists and talk truths to power and expose things , because it 's becoming riskier , " said Durkin , who is now the director of safety education for the James Foley foundation , an organization that promotes journalist safety and helps Americans who have a family member taken hostage overseas . <p> The Fallen Journalists Memorial Foundation formed in the wake of the Capital Gazette massacre . In June 2018 , a gunman stormed into the publication 's newsroom in Annapolis , and killed four journalists and one staff member , the deadliest attack on journalists in American history . In 2021 , Jarrod Ramos was given multiple life sentences for the shooting . <p> Congress approved legislation for the memorial in 2020 . In September , six years after the shooting , the first public images of the planned Fallen Journalist Memorial in Washington were unveiled . The memorial 's construction will be funded by a nonprofit organization created by former Republican U.S. Rep. David Dreier , who served as the chairman of the Tribune Publishing Company ( the former owners of the Capital Gazette ) from January 2019 through February 2020 . <p> The memorial will be between the National Museum of the American Indian and the Voice of America at Independence Avenue , Maryland Avenue and 3rd Street Southwest , putting it close to the three branches of government . Each of the memorial 's entry points lead to a circular Remembrance Hall that has the First Amendment inscribed in a glass lens . <p> If the foundation meets its fundraising goals on schedule , the memorial will be completed and dedicated in June 2028 , the 10th anniversary of the Capital Gazette shooting . <p> " The memorial is dedicated not only to the journalists who lost their lives , but also in the words of the legislation ' to commemorate America 's commitment to freedom of the press , ' " Barbara Cochran , the president of the Fallen Journalists Memorial Foundation , told CNS . <p> Iraq leads the world in journalist fatalities by nearly double the next country on the list , with 288 incidents compared to the Philippines ' 165 . Ten countries -- including Syria , Mexico and Russia -- make up 49% of all media-related deaths since 1975 . War and civil unrest are prevalent issues among the top 10 countries . <p> When Durkin sees reports of journalists dying in combat zones like Gaza or Ukraine , he said it reminds him of the friend he lost . <p> " Instances like this makes me think of Jim , and like , the risks that he was willing to endure to cover things in Syria , to cover things in Libya , and now you 're seeing it in Gaza , " Durkin said . " It 's this really difficult catch 22 because we need journalists to tell us what 's going on , but those journalists are increasingly putting their life at risk to tell us this . " <p> The risk journalists face while working in a war zone is evident in the current conflict between Israel and Hamas in the Gaza Strip . Prior to October 2023 , just 25 journalists lost their lives in the area . As of November , that figure has risen to 156 -- a more than 500% increase over a roughly 12-month period . The jump has landed Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territory in third for media fatalities among all countries with at least one fatality reported since 1974 . <p> " At times , it feels like there 's indiscriminate bombing that journalists are just caught in the crossfire , " Durkin said . <p> When the Fallen Journalists Memorial is fully erected , it will have the U.S. Capitol as a backdrop . At night , up-lit glass elements will release a glow with the dome of the Capitol visible , a choice the designers of the memorial made to pay homage to the role of journalism in democracy , the foundation said on its website . <p> While a list of names will exist digitally , unlike many D.C. tributes , there will not be any on Fallen Journalists Memorial . <p> " Because sadly , " Cochran said , " This is an unfinished story . " <p> Capital News Service is a student-powered news organization run by the University of Maryland Philip Merrill College of Journalism . 
@@118464143 <p> More Americans are leaning into their Christian faith in what some religious leaders and scholars are calling a " fourth Great Awakening . " <p> Bible sales in the United States have skyrocketed in 2024 , religious colleges are seeing enrollment boosts despite overall declines in higher education attendance and several states are pushing for Bible-based curriculum in public schools . Some Bible scholars believe this may mark a significant cultural shift . <p> " While it has been apparent to a few of us for some time , millions are now realizing that ' woke ' ideologies are , in fact , destructive attempts to re-found the nation according to a new civic religion which both parodies and persecutes Christianity , " Chad Pecknold , theologian and professor at The Catholic University of America , told the Daily Caller News Foundation . <p> Despite overall book sales increasing by only 1% compared to 2023 , Bible sales in the U.S. have reached an impressive 22% increase as of October 2024 , according to the Wall Street Journal . <p> The Cardinal Newman Society in October reported that enrollment at Catholic colleges has risen in 2024 despite an overall enrollment decrease at other institutions , with several schools such as Ave Maria University in Florida and Benedictine College in Kansas seeing record growth , increasing attendance by more than 20% over the last 10 years . <p> " There is a resurgence of Christianity among young people , " Wade Burleson , retired pastor and president of Istoria Ministries , told the DCNF . " I see what is happening as more of an Awakening . An Awakening occurs when the irreligious come to faith in Christ . " <p> Burleson pointed to several instances of young people coming into faith in doves in recent years , with hundreds of students being baptized on campuses across the nation , including several members of the four-time national champion Oklahoma University women 's softball team . <p> " There have been three Great Awakenings in America , and a few smaller ones , " Burleson continued . " I believe we are in the beginning of a fourth Great Awakening and it is a response to inflation ( financial panic ) , pandemics ( Covid ) , wars ( global ) , and the sudden death of stability in America . There is no anchor in life better than the Anchor of Hope , and when the ship of life is tossed to and fro , faith awakens . " <p> " Democrats , and the corporations and institutions they controlled , embraced this pseudo-civic religion in their attempt to take total control over the American republic , " Pecknold said . " The American people saw their totalitarian appetites on display in everything from forced vaccinations to extreme racialism to the redefinition of marriage and the denial of sexual difference , all under the ever-evolving banner of ' the Progress Flag . ' " <p> " This is when the Democrats were defeated so thoroughly on November 5th , it was not only seen as a political victory , but also as a religious victory : it was a repudiation of the ersatz civic religion that Democrats had used to re-found the country . " <p> Catholic voters played a pivotal role in the 2024 presidential election , making up approximately 25% of the vote and overwhelmingly siding with President-elect Donald Trump , with other Christian voters following suit . <p> A view of the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in the Morningside Heights neighborhood of northern Manhattan on October 06 , 2024 in New York City . ( Photo by Roy Rochlin/Getty Images ) <p> Greg Boyd , theologian and Pastor at Woodland Hills Church in St. Paul , Minnesota is less convinced of this religious revival . <p> " My concern is that a lot of it seems to be wrapped up with nationalism , " Boyd told the DCNF . " And it concerns me because whenever the Christian faith has gotten too close to political power , it 's been transformed by the political power , and we have Christians trying to control others and conquer others , the same as we 've had throughout history . And in my opinion , that does n't look anything like what we find in the Gospel . " <p> Boyd pointed to examples of states like Texas , Louisiana and Oklahoma approving the implementation of Bible lessons into public school lessons . Texas ' law is meant to help " students to better understand the connection of history , art , community , literature , and religion on pivotal events " in history and Oklahoma 's is similarly meant " as an instructional support into the curriculum . " <p> " Where did Jesus ever impose himself on others ? " the pastor asked . <p> " I mean , I would love to see a revival in the country , " Boyd said . " The evidence of that would be , I would think , people become more Christ-like , they become more loving . They would be trying to turn the other cheek , trying to reach out across the aisle and build bridges instead of walls . And I do n't see any of that happening with the church as a whole . Seems like it 's kind of gone deeply into political polarization . " <p> Boyd agreed that many issues in politics have driven people to view current affairs through a religious lens . <p> Cultural issues such as abortion , gender ideology and diversity , equity and inclusion ( DEI ) have been hot topics dividing Americans ' opinions , especially religious Americans . The ongoing war in Gaza , as well as the hundreds of protests that spanned the U.S. in response , also impacted Christians ' perspective , with many viewing the apparent prosecution of Jews on college campuses as an infringement on religious freedom as a whole . <p> Church attendance among Christians remains relatively low in the United States , with only 30% of Protestants and 23% of Catholics attending church every week , according to a March Gallup poll . However , more Americans than ever are consuming religious content , with the Hallow prayer app becoming the first religious app to top Apple 's App Store in 2024 and Fr . Mike Schmitz 's Bible In A Year podcast consistently topping charts in recent years , according to National Review . <p> Young men in particular are maintaining their devotion to faith , with more Gen Z men identifying as Christian than women for the first time , according to the New York Times . <p> " We are currently seeing a kind of clarity about the civilizational conflict that ' woke ' ideologies provoked , " Pecknold told the DCNF . " In brief , the people are fed up with this fake religion , and even if they are n't Christian themselves , they 're realizing that Christianity provides a far better ' unwritten constitution ' for the nation than anti-Christian wokism can supply . There 's a simple realization at work here . " <p> " Christianity is an ordering principle which elevates and ennobles souls , families , and societies -- it 's inherently public , and can not be ' privatized , ' relegated to the margins , or separated from questions of education , heritage , public morality , family policy , law , or the aspirations of nations , " Pecknold said . " We still date time by the Incarnation because , deep down , everyone knows that Christianity is objectively true and good for all people -- it roots us in reality , it helps us to promote the truly good , and avoid those evils which cause so much suffering -- it elevates us by the Light of Christ . Public Christianity is literally what makes civilizational renewal possible . The fact that Americans are remembering this , and having the courage to state it , is a sign of great hope for the nation . " <p> All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation , an independent and nonpartisan newswire service , is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience . All republished articles must include our logo , our reporter 's byline and their DCNF affiliation . For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us , please contact **39;2107;TOOLONG . <h> What does Founders Club include ? <p> Readers , <p> Instead of sucking up to the political and corporate powers that dominate America , The Daily Caller is fighting for you -- our readers . We humbly ask you to consider joining us in this fight . <p> Now that millions of readers are rejecting the increasingly biased and even corrupt corporate media and joining us daily , there are powerful forces lined up to stop us : the old guard of the news media hopes to marginalize us ; the big corporate ad agencies want to deprive us of revenue and put us out of business ; senators threaten to have our reporters arrested for asking simple questions ; the big tech platforms want to limit our ability to communicate with you ; and the political party establishments feel threatened by our independence . <p> We do n't complain -- we ca n't stand complainers -- but we do call it how we see it . We have a fight on our hands , and it 's intense . We need your help to smash through the big tech , big media and big government blockade . <p> We 're the insurgent outsiders for a reason : our deep-dive investigations hold the powerful to account . Our original videos undermine their narratives on a daily basis . Even our insistence on having fun infuriates them -- because we wo n't bend the knee to political correctness . <p> One reason we stand apart is because we are not afraid to say we love America . We love her with every fiber of our being , and we think she 's worth saving from today 's craziness . <p> Help us save her . <p> A second reason we stand out is the sheer number of honest responsible reporters we have helped train . We have trained so many solid reporters that they now hold prominent positions at publications across the political spectrum . Hear a rare reasonable voice at a place like CNN ? There 's a good chance they were trained at Daily Caller . Same goes for the numerous Daily Caller alumni dominating the news coverage at outlets such as Fox News , Newsmax , Daily Wire and many others . <p> Simply put , America needs solid reporters fighting to tell the truth or we will never have honest elections or a fair system . We are working tirelessly to make that happen and we are making a difference . <p> Since 2010 , The Daily Caller has grown immensely . We 're in the halls of Congress . We 're in the Oval Office . And we 're in up to 20 million homes every single month . That 's 20 million Americans like you who are impossible to ignore . <p> We can overcome the forces lined up against all of us . This is an important mission but we ca n't do it unless you -- the everyday Americans forgotten by the establishment -- have our back . <p> Please consider becoming a Daily Caller Patriot today , and help us keep doing work that holds politicians , corporations and other leaders accountable . Help us thumb our noses at political correctness . Help us train a new generation of news reporters who will actually tell the truth . And help us remind Americans everywhere that there are millions of us who remain clear-eyed about our country 's greatness . <p> In return for membership , Daily Caller Patriots will be able to read The Daily Caller without any of the ads that we have long used to support our mission . We know the ads drive you crazy . They drive us crazy too . But we need revenue to keep the fight going . If you join us , we will cut out the ads for you and put every Lincoln-headed cent we earn into amplifying our voice , training even more solid reporters , and giving you the ad-free experience and lightning fast website you deserve . <p> Patriots will also be eligible for Patriots Only content , newsletters , chats and live events with our reporters and editors . It 's simple : welcome us into your lives , and we 'll welcome you into ours . 
@@118478046 <p> Israel launched more attacks on targets in Gaza Wednesday , with Palestinian officials reporting dozens of deaths and injuries . <p> One Israeli strike that hit a tent camp housing displaced people killed at least 21 and wounded 28 in southern Gaza , according to the director of Nasser Hospital , Atif al-Hout , in the nearby city of Khan Younis . The Israeli military said its aircraft struck senior Hamas militants " involved in terrorist activities " in the area . <p> At least 15 bodies were brought to the hospital , but reaching a precise number of dead was difficult because many were dismembered , some without heads or badly burned . The strike hit the Mawasi area , a sprawling coastal camp housing hundreds of thousands of displaced people . <p> A wounded Palestinian child is carried on a stretcher at the Al-Aqsa Martyrs hospital in Deir al-Balah , following an Israeli bombardment in Nuseirat , central Gaza , Dec. 4 , 2024 . <p> Residents in the Khan Younis area said Israeli tanks advanced a day after the Israeli military issued new evacuation orders , saying there had been rocket launches by Palestinian militants in the region . <p> With shells crashing near residential areas , families headed westward toward the nearby humanitarian-designated area of Al-Mawasi . Palestinian and United Nations officials say there are no safe areas left in Gaza and that most of its 2.3 million people have been displaced multiple times . <p> Displaced Palestinians make their way as they flee the northern part of Gaza , amid an Israeli military operation , in Jabalia in the northern Gaza Strip , Dec. 4 , 2024 . <p> Further north , another Israeli airstrike hit three houses in Gaza City , killing at least 10 people and wounding many others , the territory 's emergency service said . Many victims were still trapped under the rubble with rescue operations under way . <p> Medics said 11 people were killed in three airstrikes on areas in central Gaza , including six children and a medic . Five of the dead had been lining up outside a bakery , they said . <p> A further nine Palestinians were killed by tank fire in Rafah , near the border with Egypt , medics said . <p> Israel 's military did not immediately comment on the information given by Palestinian medics . <p> Meanwhile , Israel 's Shin Bet domestic security agency said Wednesday that Israeli forces have recovered the body of a hostage held in Gaza . <p> Itay Svirsky was captured alive from southern Israel during Hamas ' Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack . Israel believes that he was killed while in captivity . <p> The Shin Bet did not disclose details of the mission to recover Svirsky 's body . <p> FILE - People look at pictures of Hamas hostages , including Itay Svirsky , second from right , in Jerusalem , May 25 , 2024 . <p> The Israeli military said Wednesday it made several arrests after Israeli settlers attacked towns in the occupied West Bank . <p> The Israel Defense Forces said the violence included settler attacks on the village of Beit Furik , where settlers hurled stones and wounded two border police . <p> Settler violence has surged in the West Bank since Hamas launched its October 2023 attack on Israel , and Israeli forces have carried out numerous raids on West Bank villages as part of a campaign the military says is aimed at disrupting militant activities . <p> U.S. and other officials expressed hope in recent days that last week 's ceasefire deal between Israel and Hezbollah could help to push along efforts to secure a ceasefire in Gaza . <p> But months of talks brokered by the United States , Egypt and Qatar aimed at halting the fighting in Gaza have yet to yield an agreement between Israel and Hamas . <p> Israel-Hezbollah ceasefire <p> U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Wednesday that while fighting rages in Gaza , the fragile Israel-Hezbollah ceasefire in Lebanon is " holding , " even as the warring parties have continued to periodically target each other with new strikes in recent days , and Israel launching new strikes in Lebanon Wednesday . <p> Blinken told journalists on the sidelines of a NATO meeting in Brussels , " The ceasefire is holding , and we 're using the mechanism that was established when any concerns have arisen about any alleged or purported violations . " <p> United States Secretary of State Antony Blinken speaks during a media conference at the conclusion of a meeting of NATO foreign ministers at NATO headquarters in Brussels , Dec. 4 , 2024 . <p> Both Israel and Hezbollah have accused each other of violating the week-old truce to end 14 months of fighting that has killed thousands of people in Lebanon and sparked mass displacement of residents on both sides of the Israeli-Lebanon border . <p> " I think fundamentally , both parties , that is to say Israel and Hezbollah , through the Lebanese government , wanted and continue to want the ceasefire , " Blinken said . " But we have to make sure that it 's upheld . And we 're determined to do that . " <p> A committee including France , United Nations peacekeepers , Israel , Lebanon and chaired by the United States is tasked with maintaining communication among the various parties and ensuring violations are identified and dealt with to avoid any escalation . <p> " The mechanism that we established with France to make sure that the ceasefire is effectively monitored and implemented is working , and we want to make sure it continues to work , " Blinken said . " If there are concerns that one party or the other is violating the ceasefire , it comes to us , and one way or another , we engage the parties . That 's exactly what 's happened . " <p> Under terms of the ceasefire , the two sides are supposed to pull back from the border area , with Lebanese troops and U.N . peacekeepers maintaining a buffer zone . <p> Lebanese Health Minister Firass Abiad said Wednesday that the Israel-Hezbollah war has killed at least 4,047 and wounded more than 16,600 others . <p> Abiad said most of the casualties have occurred since September 15 , and that the actual number of dead is believed to be higher . <p> Israel stepped up its campaign against Hezbollah in southern Lebanon in late September after nearly a year of cross-border exchanges by Hezbollah in support of its ally Hamas , following the Palestinian group 's October 2023 attack on Israel . The attack killed 1,200 people and led to the capture of 250 hostages . <p> There are still about 100 hostages held in Gaza , with about one-third believed to be dead . <p> Israel 's counteroffensive in Gaza has killed more than 44,500 Palestinians , more than half of the verified deaths women and children , according to the Gaza health ministry . Israel says that the death toll includes thousands of militants it has killed . <p> Hamas and Hezbollah have been designated as terror groups by the United States , United Kingdom and other Western countries . <p> Some material in this report came from The Associated Press , Agence France-Presse and Reuters . <p> The Voice of America provides news and information in more than 40 languages to an estimated weekly audience of over 326 million people . Stories with the VOA News byline are the work of multiple VOA journalists and may contain information from wire service reports . 
@@118502057 <h> Social Media Has Little Sympathy for Murdered Health Insurance Exec <p> The fatal shooting of UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson outside a midtown Manhattan hotel on Wednesday morning was a shock to the city and the nation . But as police hunted for the missing gunman in what they called a " premeditated , preplanned , targeted attack , " social media erupted with contempt for the health insurance industry he represented -- and his company in particular . <p> " Saw mainstream news coverage about the killing of the CEO of United Healthcare on TikTok and I think political and industry leaders might want to read the comments and think hard about them , " wrote political activist Tobita Chow in a post on X , formerly Twitter . In screenshots he shared , TikTok users reacted to the story with blistering references to the costly and often unnavigable for-profit U.S. health insurance system . " Sending prior authorization , denied claims , collections &amp; prayers to his family , " wrote one . <p> " As someone covered under UnitedHealthCare I can completely understand the actions taken , " wrote an X user replying to a news link about Thompson 's murder " being investigated as a possible hit , " according to a statement from law enforcement . " Did he have a pre-existing condition ? " asked another . And under an ABC News TikTok on police officers ' efforts to find the killer , a user asked , " Why are they investigating this ? " <p> " Got a push notification to exercise caution because the United Healthcare shooter is still at large , " noted standup comic Samantha Ruddy in her own X post . " I personally do not feel like I am on the shooter 's radar because I am not the CEO of a highly divisive multi billion dollar insurance company . " <p> Thompson 's violent death outside a hotel where UnitedHealthcare was hosting an investor conference did n't just prompt scathing jokes but heated criticism of the insurer he had helmed since 2021 . One image that made the rounds online was a chart from the personal finance website ValuePenguin , which found that UnitedHealthcare denies 32 percent of all in-network claims relating to individual health insurance plans -- twice the industry average . Some pointed to headlines describing how UnitedHealthcare has used an allegedly faulty AI algorithm to assess claims and deny care for seriously ill patients on private Medicare Advantage plans , as described in an ongoing class-action lawsuit brought by the estates of two deceased people who were denied coverage for their care at an extended-care facility . <p> Among those who amplified that story was right-wing podcaster Tim Pool , suggesting that Americans across the political spectrum can find rare consensus when it comes to disdain for their free-market health care system . " It 's actually kind of touching that the one thing that can bring together our fractious and disunited country is celebrating the assassination of a health insurance CEO , " wrote University of Virginia historian David Austin Walsh on X. <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Still , a few dissenters tried to shame anyone making light of the slaying . Rep. Dean Phillips of Minnesota , who unsuccessfully challenged President Joe Biden for the 2024 Democratic Party presidential nomination , drew an odd comparison to Israel 's ongoing bombardment of Gaza and Lebanon . " Seems like leftists opposed to killing terrorists in the Middle East support killing CEOs in Midtown Manhattan , " he fumed on X , adding , " Sick . " Both Sen. Amy Klobuchar and Gov . Tim Walz of Minnesota , where UnitedHealthcare is based , shared statements of condolence . <p> While the shooter 's identity and motive are presently unknown , Thompson 's wife , Paulette Thompson , told NBC News that he had received threats and that they may have involved issues with a customer 's " lack of coverage . " The NYPD has released surveillance images of the suspect , who was masked and wearing a black jacket with a gray backpack , and have offered a $10,000 reward for information regarding the homicide . <p> Another ongoing lawsuit against UnitedHealthcare 's parent company , UnitedHealth Group , named Thompson along with two other top executives . A pension for firefighters in the city of Hollywood , Florida , filed the securities fraud class action earlier this year , accusing Thompson and his colleagues of selling $120 million of their UnitedHealth shares after learning of a U.S. Justice Department antitrust investigation of the company -- but before the probe became public . <p> Between coverage of such alleged profiteering , UnitedHealthcare 's grim reputation , and disclosures of the millions the company spends on lobbying and Thompson 's $10 million salary , there was hardly a shortage of material for vicious riffs . " It 's no surprise that gallows humor is responding to the assassination of a gallows business model CEO , " observed Dr. Steven Thrasher in a post on X. A professor at Northwestern University 's Medill School , Thrasher is the author of The Viral Underclass , a book about inequalities in health care that determine who has privileged access to medical resources . " Health insurances lets ghouls decide whether live or die based upon how much your life or death will affect shareholder value . " <p> For once , too , it seemed that no extremist factions were quick to blame the murder on ideological opponents , as they typically have in the wake of high-profile shootings throughout the U.S. in recent years ( save one Fox News commentator who suggested the NYPD had n't yet located the shooter because they were too busy dealing with immigrant crime ) . Online influencers known to shape a narrative before the facts emerge instead proved willing to wait and see where the case would lead . Within the feverish climate of social media , this made for an unfamiliar sort of restraint -- almost as unusual as the street homicide of an American businessman . 
@@118513440 <h> Supporters of resettlement said that the main reason would be " to correct the mistake of the unilateral disengagement from Gaza in 2005 . " <p> The overwhelming majority ( 88.5% ) of Israeli Arabs oppose establishing Jewish settlements in Gaza , while a small majority ( 52% ) of Jewish Israelis oppose this , according to an Israel Democracy Institute poll published this week . <p> This is divided along political lines , with a large majority of Jews on the Left ( 85.5% ) and in the center ( 77% ) opposing settlement and a majority of Jews on the right ( 59.5% ) supporting it , the IDI reported . <p> Examining the reasoning of those who support the establishment of Jewish settlement in Gaza , the poll found that 31% of supporters said that the main reason they support Gaza settlement is " to correct the mistake of the unilateral disengagement from Gaza in 2005 . " <p> Some 23.5% said the main reason they support Gaza settlement was to " provide better protection for residents of the Gaza border region " ; 25.5% said it is that " Gaza is part of the Land of Israel " ; and 17% said the main reason was " punishment for the events of October 7 . " <h> US elections <p> The poll also examined Israelis ' opinions about " The importance of Israel 's security in the eyes of the incoming US administration . " REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL nominee and former US president Donald Trump speaks at an event commemorating the first anniversary of the October 7 Hamas attacks on Israel on Monday in Doral , Florida . ( credit : MARCO BELLO/REUTERS ) <p> Some 63% of Jews and 59% of Arabs said that Israel 's security will be a " central consideration for President-Elect Trump when formulating American foreign policy . " <p> " There are large differences within the Jewish sample between the various political camps : On the Left , only 38% think that the Trump administration will attach great importance to Israel 's security , compared with 46.5% in the Center and a large majority of 77% on the Right , " the IDI said . <p> Some 52% of Israelis said they think that Trump 's inauguration will accelerate the end of the war in Gaza and Lebanon , 12% said it would accelerate the end of the war only in Lebanon , and 17% said they do not think it would accelerate the end of the war on either front . <p> When examining Israeli attitudes on ICC arrest warrants against Netanyahu and former defense minister Yoav Gallant , the poll found that 61% of Jewish respondents think that the main driver behind issuing the warrants was " the court 's longstanding anti-Israel bias , " the IDI said . <p> In the total sample ( including Jewish and Arab Israelis ) , 16% said they think that the main reason for the warrants was the " way in which Israel and the IDF have conducted the war in Gaza " ; 23% chalked it up to ineffective war efforts , and 53% blamed anti-Israel bias . 
@@118513444 <h> If Israel is destined to live on guard for the long run , let it move from defense to offense in areas where it is challenged and not limit its struggle to the military alone . <p> Milan Fakih , 40 , father of Hashim Fakih , 10 , and Fatima Fakih , 11 , take a selfie together in front of their destroyed house , after a ceasefire between Israel and Iran-backed group Hezbollah took effect on Wednesday after US President Joe Biden said both sides accepted an agreement. ( photo credit : REUTERS/ADNAN ABIDI/FILE PHOTO ) <p> " The state is a human community that ( successfully ) claims the monopoly of the legitimate use of physical force within a given territory , " as Weber said in 1918 . <p> But what happens when the state does not boast a monopoly on the legitimate use of violence ? <p> What happens when , for instance , there are two monopolies on violence in one state -- one regular army and another paramilitary organization that functions as an army in every respect and even bullies and threatens the regular army forces , as is the case in Lebanon ? <p> Or , for example , a state whose government is controlled by a rebel organization loyal to another country but speaks in the name of the state it has taken over , as is the case in Yemen ? <p> Or , for example , a political entity split in two , where some countries recognize it as a state despite its unclear borders , and two different parties with five different armies manage different parts of it , each claiming to speak for the entire state , as is the case with the Palestinians ? Illustrative image of IDF soldiers and Hamas terrorists ( credit : Canva , IDF SPOKESPERSON 'S UNIT , REUTERS/IBRAHEEM ABU MUSTAFA ) <p> Are these states ? Does international law apply to them ? <p> One of the favorite claims of the UN rapporteur for human rights in the Palestinian territories , Francesca Albanese , is that , according to her reading of international law , Israel has no right to self-defense against Hamas since Hamas is a non-state actor and international law permits " orderly " states the right to self-defense only when attacked by other " orderly " states . <p> The same envoy who just two years ago implored Hamas leaders , " You have the right to resist , " is now spreading the doctrine that Israel has no right to self-defense against Hamas . In other words , Hamas should attack , and Israel should never have the right to retaliate . <p> Even if we do not follow Albanese 's distorted approach , which calls on the aggressor to kill and decrees that the attacked must remain silent , it is clear that the so-called " international law " falls short of providing legal tools to deal with a situation like Israel 's , and more broadly , of all law-abiding states in the West ( since most non-democratic countries do not follow international law anyway ) . <p> They call this " asymmetric warfare " . The same warfare that was able to bring down the Twin Towers with a small array of weapons has now reached the stage of legal warfare : terrorist organizations are " allowed " to massacre partygoers , burn entire families alive , kidnap infants and elderly , and rain thousands of rockets on populated areas -- but the law-abiding state is not allowed to respond . <p> Even when the law-abiding state allows hundreds of trucks loaded with humanitarian aid during wartime , even when the law-abiding state allows passage of civilians from an enemy entity through its territory , even when the law-abiding state issues advance warnings about bombings thereby losing its critical element of surprise ; even when the law-abiding state declares to the world that the enemy is not the people living in Gaza but the terrorist organization that carried out the worst massacre of the Jewish people since the Holocaust -- even then , this state is vilified as supposedly committing genocide , its leaders face arrest warrants , and its allies turn their backs on its war against terrorism , which is their problem too , not just ours . <p> Indeed , terrorist organizations , the non-state actors of our region , expertly exploit these loopholes in the law , and , led by their patrons in Tehran and Doha , play a game that makes it difficult for Israel as a proper law-abiding state to respond in any way , especially as it is under a much larger magnifying glass than any other country in the world , in a way that can only be explained as an irrational obsession with the actions of the Jews . <h> Israel 's new needed approach <p> Iran and Qatar have learned from the mistakes of past Arab states . In the past , when Israel fought state against state , jet against jet , tank against tank , and soldier against soldier -- it was easier to make the case , the laws of war were clear , and even the Red Cross , which has failed horrendously for over a year with the issue of Israeli hostages , proved somewhat effective . <p> This is why Tehran and Doha , which in the name of political Islam are leading a new crusade to destroy the state of Israel , have turned to proxy wars and partial takeover of state fragments instead of fighting a direct war . This way , they evade international law and impose on Israel a war against armed militias fighting against civilians and among civilians -- instead of against states and regular armies as was the case in the past . <p> These terrorist organizations and Tehran and Doha , who pull their strings , will not easily give up . If there is one thing we learned from the October 7 massacre , it is that when the enemy says it intends to slaughter you , you must take its words seriously and not wave them off dismissively . Therefore , as long as the threat exists and Iran and Qatar continue to fund the enemies -- there will be no choice , and Israel will have to stand guard and take initiative at all times . <p> However , military initiative and cunning are not sufficient on their own . Military initiative , even when leading to enormous achievements , is ultimately tactical and affects the battlefield but not the international arena . Even if we are destined to live on guard , there is no escape not only from brilliant military actions but also from deep and complementary diplomatic initiatives , similar to the 1949 ceasefire agreements that arose from the defeat of Arab armies or the Potsdam Agreement at the end of World War II . As then , so now , the diplomatic initiative is complementary to the military one . <p> The current foreign minister must lead a true revolution in Israel 's foreign service and diplomatic initiative . Until now , the prime minister and his emissaries have given the impression that the foreign ministry is more of a burden than an asset for them , a source of potential trouble whose loyalty is questionable at best . The prime minister , a person for whom centralized micromanagement of matters close to his heart is a central hallmark , preferred private envoys over building a professional and excellent foreign service . <p> Dore Gold , Meir Ben-Shabbat , Yitzhak Molcho , and now Ron Dermer -- all outstanding individuals , loyal public servants , and first-class diplomats , were forced to carry out the work of Israel 's foreign service . Even outside the bureaucratic level , foreign ministers were not always chosen from a diplomatic background , as could well be seen from the previous foreign minister 's tweet rampages , some of which were embarrassing at best . <p> Now , with the arrival of a new foreign minister who is said to have a good strategic vision , it is time to make Israel 's foreign service great again . Just as in the military apparatus , many are awakening from the conception of passivity and defense and understand that Israel must transition to initiative and offense -- so to , go against the political-legal campaign , a row of professional diplomats and legal professionals must be positioned to lead renewed political and diplomatic initiatives and think outside the box , strengthen existing alliances and create new ones . <p> There is no shortage of ideas . Central Asia and the Balkans are dealing with the rise of Islamist radicalism . Let 's collaborate and learn from each other . In the Middle East , are there minorities heavily affected by the Islamic Republic and the Muslim Brotherhood , like the Kurds or the Arameans ? Let 's weave alliances over and under the table and fight legally and diplomatically against the ills of Qatar , Turkey , and Iran . <p> Let 's establish Israeli cultural centers similar to the German Goethe Institute or the Spanish Cervantes Institute to help reduce alienation from Israel and the Jewish people . For those who dare to dream -- perhaps Israel should even lead an initiative , through its allies in the Western world , to expand international law and anchor rational war laws that provide protection in the case of warfare against fragmented states with multiple armies and militias , not just in orderly states , which almost do not exist in this region . <p> Let 's channel the frustration from UNRWA and its terrorist-infested cadres and curricula -- to productive work on de-radicalizing the Palestinian educational system and enhancing chances for peaceful coexistence . <p> We are in a critical time . Israel 's ultimate goal was always to just exist and be a free people in the land of Zion and Jerusalem , as the anthem goes , while the enemy 's end game has always been expansionism and the fight to collapse the Jewish state . <p> If we are destined to live on guard , we must do so in all areas where we are attacked and not limit the struggle to the military domain alone . Let 's break out of the conception and move from defense to offense , not letting them have a moment of rest , just as they have not let us rest for long decades . 
@@118513447 <h> " My goal is to ensure the arrest and prosecution of my assailant and hold the Fontainebleau Hotel accountable for its failure to protect me and Jewish visitors , " Shmuley said . <p> I was viciously attacked at the Fontainebleau Hotel in Miami Beach while simply working on my laptop , wearing a yarmulke . The attack was extremely dangerous , devastatingly unsettling , terrifying , and entirely unprovoked . It happened solely because I am proudly and unmistakably Jewish . <p> One staff member actually and sickeningly fist-bumped and hugged the man who was calling me a baby killer and threatening me with his savagery . The video , posted to social media , has now gone viral around the world and has been watched by millions of people , with hundreds of thousands posting comments of disbelief that something like this can happen , not just in the United States , but especially in South Florida where Jews felt so much more safe and at one of the world 's premier hotels . <p> The incident has been reported both to local law enforcement and the FBI . My goal is to ensure the arrest and prosecution of my assailant and , given their shocking behavior since the attack , hold the Fontainebleau Hotel accountable for its failure to protect me and Jewish visitors . <h> Trend of rising antisemitism <p> This attack is part of a disturbing trend of rising antisemitism that I 've personally experienced . As a public Jewish figure , I am often targeted , but I want to be clear : I will never hide my Jewish identity . I am proud to be Jewish and will continue to stand up against hate , even in the face of violent or near-lethal incidents . A woman wrapped in an Israel flag stands outside the place where mayor of Amsterdam Femke Halsema attends a press conference following the violence targeting fans of an Israeli soccer team , in Amsterdam , Netherlands , November 8 , 2024. ( credit : PIROSCHKA VAN DE WOUW/REUTERS ) <p> I grew up in Miami Beach , a city I love deeply . My mother lived and died here . I attended the Hebrew Academy of Greater Miami . One class below me was Ron Dermer who would later become my student president at Oxford University and is today Israel 's Minister of Strategic Affairs and Prime Minister Netanyahu 's closest aid . <p> Antisemitism was something almost unknown to us as part of daily experience . Indeed , since the COVID epidemic , a dramatic surge of Jews in general and orthodox Jews in particular have made South Florida their home , seeking safer havens than New York , New Jersey , and Pennsylvania have proven to be . <p> But such safety is an illusion , as anyone who watches the horrific attack against me will conclude . Indeed , this week , my friends Sara and Yair Netanyahu ( I have known Prime Minister Netanyahu since I was 22 years old and hosted him for lectures at Oxford University when he was Israel 's Deputy Foreign Minister ) visited Mar-a-Lago as guests of President Donald Trump and the Israeli media was commenting on how South Florida has become the ultimate safe haven for American Jewry , amid a national spike of murder , intimidation , harassment , and violent attack . Well , watch this and other videos -- remember the Nazis outside the Chabad House in Orlando ? - of what 's happening in Florida and think again . <p> This is not the first time I was accosted in the lobby of the Fontainebleau . It happened about a year and a half ago when a well-dressed Arab man screamed " Free Palestine " right in my face as I was working and threatened violence . The response of hotel security was pathetic . <p> They came over to me and threatened me as an instigator for simply being a Jewish victim of hate . That video too was watched by millions of people . I contacted the President of the Fontainebleau , Philip Goldfarb , whose daughter , ironically , I had led on a Birthright Trip to Israel about a decade earlier . <p> Birthright is uniquely capable of instilling a deep and proud Jewish identity and attachment to Israel in American youth and for that reason I volunteer to lead groups . Philip pleaded with me not to name the Fontainebleau in any of my posts . He promised me that the hotel would take the incident seriously , retrain all their security personnel , provide sensitivity training as to the unique challenges faced by yarmulke and Magen David-wearing Jews , and protect their Jewish guests . <p> I believed him . I left the matter alone . I never mentioned the Fontainebleau . <p> Big mistake . I will not repeat this mistake again . <p> In trying to be the bigger man and forgiving such a famous hotel for their cavalier response to a vicious antisemitic assault , all they learned is that antisemitism rarely has consequences . <p> Since then I have pledged never to allow any attack against innocent people to proceed with a defense . <p> I am grateful to @jewhatedb and @stopantisemitism on Instagram , both of whom identified the Islamist assailant who assaulted me as Faiz Akbar of Lorton , Virginia , who describes himself as a self-made millionaire , decked out in Gucci . I am in regular contact with the FBI about threats against me and my family and we have provided them with all the evidence , as well as to the Miami Beach Police Department , who reached out the very next day . <p> We seek the assailant 's arrest and prosecution . The Fontainebleau has thusfar refused to cooperate with the MBPD and release the surveillance tapes . No matter . They will be subpoenaed . Antisemitism will be granted no quarter , no matter how prestigious , mighty , and wealthy the institution is in trying to cover it up . <p> As this venomous , brutal , and sadistic maniac attacked me as a baby killer , as someone who loves to put bullets in the heads of children , and screamed how lucky I am to be in America or he would destroy me , security , not to mention all the people watching , did nothing to help . All were innocent bystanders . <p> I felt like I was in Berlin in 1936 , a feeling reinforced when security finally came over and treated me , the victim , as if I were equally responsible for the situation and ended up actually hugging the " Free Palestine MotherF -- ker " screaming Islamist attacker , even as he continued to openly threaten me with violence . <p> We must always distinguish between Muslims , who are our brothers and sisters , and Islamists , who are political radicals who seek a second holocaust . As a Jew and as the father of three IDF soldiers , I could not be more proud that Israel has approximately 1.5 million Arab Muslim citizens , whom the Jewish IDF soldiers fight and even God forbid die for every single day . <p> Just over the past two weeks alone , I worked closely with my friend Robert Kennedy , Jr. , President Trump 's nominee for American Health Czar , to help rescue 100 Palestinian children from Gaza who are afflicted with cancer . Every Arab and Palestinian child who has died in Gaza , due to the Hamas monsters using them as bullet-proof vests and human shields , is mourned by the Jewish people and God . <p> Each and every one of these children , treated as cannon fodder by Hamas in their genocidal war against Israel , is the equal of every Jewish child . The Torah , in its very first chapter is clear . God created every human being -- Arab , Jew , Christian , Hindu , atheist , agnostic -- alike and equal in his image . <p> It is for this reason that Hamas , who are alleged to have stolen approximately half of the 820 metric tons , or 1.2 million pounds , of humanitarian aid that the United States military alone provided as of last May , and half of the more than 1000 trucks of aid that Israel also sent in as of the same date , must be destroyed and replaced with proper , democratic governance . <p> The Fontainebleau has scores of Jewish guests , many with yarmulkes , staying there constantly . From this video , it does not appear that they are safe . Will the hotel , which I grew up just a few blocks from , finally take action to protect Jewish guests ? These attacks are becoming more frequent and from the rage of the man who assaulted me , you can see the degree of the danger . <p> It has to stop . That will not happen if the hotel does not cooperate with the police investigation and if its attorneys continue , as they have are alleged to have done , blaming me as an inciter for sitting quietly with a yarmulke and working on a laptop . Being Jewish is not a provocation . <h> Attacked on different occasions <p> So here we are . I grew up in Miami Beach , now live in New Jersey , and I 've been attacked in the Fontainebleau on at least three occasions and each time I have complained to their management . I have been gracious and forgiving of the previous incidents , even as people pleaded with me before to hold them accountable and go public . <p> I stupidly accepted their apparently fraudulent promise that they would retrain their security and protect the Jewish community . The lesson : we have no choice but to fight antisemitism . Whether the establishment is Jewish-owned or not makes no difference , and some might even argue that Jewish-owned and managed properties that condone , or cease to protect , against antisemitism are even more culpable . <p> Already , Jewish tourists from all over the world are writing to me , and all over social media they are canceling their reservations at the Fontainebleau and rethinking Miami as a safe vacation destination . I do n't blame them . But then , all of America , indeed all of the world , is becoming infected with the Jew-hating disease . <p> Will Governor Ron DeSantis , whom I honored at our 2018 gala at New York 's Plaza Hotel and helped to elevate nationally when he was an unknown Congressman , take action ? He has proved to be one of Israel 's greatest champions and , as of this writing , is being spoken of as a possible replacement for Pete Hegseth as Secretary of Defense . But the Governor can not watch the video of the Fontainebleau and turn a blind eye . <p> The same is true of Miami Beach Mayor Steven Meiner , an Orthodox Jew whom I have met . He has yet to even reach out after this despicable incident in his city where an unhinged antisemite publicity threatened the life of a Rabbi known to him in his city 's most famous hotel . If these incidents , which are on the rise , do n't stop , Miami Beach , like Paris , Amsterdam , and London before it , will face a growing call for a boycott for a city that can not protect its Jewish residents or tourists . <p> The Islamist terrorists first and foremost want to harass , intimidate , assault , and murder " the public Jew , " those of us who are on the front lines visibly defending Israel and fighting antisemitism every day on television , social media , public platforms , and public rallies ( our next giant Times Square rally for Israel , which we hold every eight weeks , is this Tuesday , December 11th ) . <p> We are the ones who are particularly at risk because the terrorists want to shut us up and kill us . But of course , every Jew in America , including of course those who own and manage the Fontainebleau , are also at risk . But public Jews are the first targets , and we need law-enforcement to protect us or we will meet an early death , God forbid . It is a message I plan to bring God willing in a face-to-face meeting with Kash Patel , President Trump 's nominee to lead the FBI . <p> Law enforcement must arrest and prosecute alleged unhinged antisemite Faiz Akbar who attacked me and threatened my life simply for being a Jew . <p> This Sunday on the Jewish calendar , 7 Kislev , I will turn 58 . In addition , we had a new grandson born to us the day after I was attacked , a beautiful occasion which was ruined utterly by having my life endangered at the Fontainebleau . My children ask me , Tatty , as you advance in years , what 's going through your mind ? What 's your life 's work ? What will your legacy be ? <p> It is simply this . I have devoted my life to ensuring that the sacred holocaust declaration of " Never Again " is not just an empty slogan but a sacred promise . Jewish life must finally have value . I will fight every day to ensure that it does . Enough is enough . 
@@118513451 <h> " Terrorists in the North were on full alert , ready to act " against Israel after October 7 , the official senior explained . <p> A surprise attack was planned on Israel 's northern border in the days following the October 7 Hamas attacks , a senior military official involved in commanding the IDF 's operations in southern Lebanon revealed in a Wednesday Maariv interview . <p> The official emphasized that a repeat or imitation of the October 7 attack is unlikely to occur along Israel 's northern border at this stage of the war . He attributed this to the IDF 's efforts in neutralizing terror tunnels , clearing dense brushlands , and dismantling nature reserves that had been converted into terror strongholds.Before the IDF 's efforts in combatting Hezbollah and dismantling its infrastructure and weaponry , the senior official revealed that early in the operation , some 3,000 terrorists were stationed across southern Lebanon within a three-kilometer strip north of the Israeli border , ready to invade upon receiving orders . <p> " On October 6 , Israel faced an existential threat without realizing it . The terrorists in the North were on full alert , ready to act , " the official explained . <p> He added that what prevented a coordinated invasion was the IDF 's rapid deployment of four brigades to Israel 's northern border on October 7 . Israeli soldiers seen in Kibbutz Be'eri , near the Israeli-Gaza border , in southern Israel , October 11 , 2023. ( credit : Chaim Goldberg/Flash90 ) <h> Destroying Hezbollah 's element of surprise <p> " The IDF 's deployment neutralized the surprise element in Hezbollah 's plan , and the terrorists realized their plan was no longer feasible since surprise was central to their strategy , just as it was in Gaza , " the official added . <p> During the IDF 's operations in the North at the start of the war , it entered Shiite and Sunni villages in Lebanon and discovered a massive stockpile of weapons , including anti-tank missiles , firing positions , and observation posts . <p> " We destroyed every weapon we encountered , dismantled underground living quarters , and neutralized Hezbollah 's capabilities to conduct its planned raid , " the official said . <p> The IDF also uncovered numerous local tunnels in southern Lebanon used by Hezbollah for storage and living quarters , according to the official . <p> He noted that many of these tunnels were built within particularly dense brushlands -- areas of thick vegetation up to ten meters high -- which provided terrorists with almost complete cover . <p> The thickets , located mainly near the Israel-Lebanon border , were uniquely dense , hiding all activity within them , including terrorist movements , weapons , and underground infrastructure . <p> These covers also allowed Hezbollah to establish firing positions and observation posts and prepare for targeted raids on border communities . <p> " The thickets served as Hezbollah 's nature shield , " the official explained . " Within the dense vegetation , they created hidden pathways for terrorists , concealed heavy weaponry like anti-tank missiles , and even built underground living quarters for long-term storage . " <p> During the operation , the IDF destroyed all weapons found in the tunnels and living quarters . <p> In addition to eliminating tunnels and weapons , the IDF 's primary goal was to remove the concealment advantage provided by the thickets . <p> " Hezbollah managed to operate under the radar using the thickets , " the official noted . <p> He added that this exploitation posed a significant challenge for the IDF . <p> The official also addressed how the military has been working to prevent the area from becoming a haven for hostile activity again . <p> " These areas have been turned into open fields , " the official explained . " So , any future attempts by Hezbollah to re-establish themselves will be immediately and effectively monitored . " <p> Even after the IDF demolished these buildings and the weapons within , this was not a long-term solution , as rearming has not been a complex task for the organization in the past . <h> Finishing the job <p> " We understood that what we had done so far neutralized Hezbollah 's immediate ability to operate , but it was n't enough to guarantee long-term quiet , " the official explained . " To prevent a scenario like October 7 from recurring , we needed to finish the job . " <p> As part of the effort , houses near the border that Hezbollah had used for storing and manufacturing weapons were completely destroyed , the official said . The IDF reportedly held a firm stance that homes in southern Lebanese villages , from the border up to three kilometers into Lebanon , would not be allowed to be rebuilt , even after an agreement . <p> During the operation , tunnels up to 70 meters long were discovered . These tunnels were equipped for extended stays with supplies sufficient for six months . <p> " Opposite every Israeli community , a Hezbollah company was waiting to infiltrate upon receiving orders . Today , they no longer have the tunnels , underground rooms , or brushlands that concealed them , " the official noted . <p> Only after the area was completely cleared could northern residents begin to consider returning to their homes . <p> " Residents we met expressed their emotions , saying they felt safe for the first time , " said the official . <p> According to him , the IDF has established new military outposts at the forefront of border communities . <p> " We will not rely on Hezbollah respecting agreements or solely on intelligence warnings . The security of northern residents is based on the presence of IDF soldiers on the ground , " he said . <p> " The fighting in the North underscored the importance of coordinated and comprehensive actions , along with the determination and resilience of the reservists and their families . This was a historic campaign to restore the security of Israel 's northern border residents , " the official concluded . 
@@118513457 <p> Cyprus has taken delivery of an Israeli air defense system , local media reported on Thursday , as the east Mediterranean island taps new markets to upgrade its defense capabilities after the loss of key supplier Russia . <p> TV station Sigma said the first deliveries were made on Tuesday . Cypriot officials declined to comment on the specifics of the report . <p> " The only thing I can say is we will and are doing everything necessary to bolster the deterrence force of Cyprus , not only because we are a country under occupation , but an EU member state in a region of particular geo-strategic importance , " Cypriot President Nikos Christodoulides told reporters on Thursday . <p> Cyprus was split in a Turkish invasion in 1974 , with the internationally recognized government controlling the south and a breakaway heavily militarised Turkish Cypriot state in the north . <p> The Barak MX anti-aircraft system will complement and eventually replace the older Russian-made Tor M1 . Russia has been a leading supplier of military hardware to Cyprus for decades , but deals tapered off even before a blanket ban on exports in the wake of Russia 's 2022 invasion of Ukraine . Iron dome anti-missile system fires interception missiles as rockets fired from the Gaza Strip to Israel , on August 6 , 2022. ( credit : YONATAN SINDEL/FLASH90 ) <p> Those sanctions have left Cyprus 's existing defense systems short of spare parts , and they can not be upgraded , a senior Cypriot source told Reuters . <p> " That is why Cyprus is turning to other countries of the European Union , as well as Israel . As part of that , efforts are underway to upgrade our anti-aircraft umbrella , " the source said . <h> Cyprus 's attempts to upgrade <p> Cypriot officials never openly disclose procurement programs because of ongoing tensions with Turkey . <p> An attempt by Cyprus to upgrade its anti-aircraft umbrella in 1998 with surface-to-air S-300 missiles from Russia culminated in a military standoff with Turkey , and Nicosia hurriedly diverted the system to Crete . <p> That acquisition was not supported by either Britain or the US at the time , though relations with Washington have improved markedly in recent years as Cyprus has anchored its policy firmly to the West . 
@@118516657 <p> Gaza baby with no name or family is taken in by hospital nurseThe newborn , found by rescuers after an Israeli attack , was rushed to a hospital . Nurse Amal Abu Khatleh gave her the name Malak , meaning angel . She is raising the baby until relatives can be found . <p> Amal Abu Khatleh , a nurse at a Gaza hospital that admitted an unidentified infant last November , took the baby in and gave her the name Malak , meaning angel . Abu Khatleh holds Malak on her first birthday in October , in Deir al-Balah , Gaza Strip . Amal Abu Khatleh hide caption <p> toggle caption <p> Amal Abu Khatleh <p> In late October 2023 , Israeli strikes killed dozens of Palestinians in the Sabra neighborhood of Gaza City . Among those wounded was a newborn baby girl -- whom rescuers found in a tree . <p> Paramedics rushed the infant to Shifa Hospital in Gaza City , the Gaza Strip 's biggest hospital at the time , and handed her over to Dr. Nasser Bolbol , who placed her in an incubator . <p> " I was told she was the only survivor of a massacre , " says Bolbol , the head of the hospital 's premature babies department . The stump of the baby girl 's umbilical cord was still soft . There were traces of milk reflux on her , a sign that she 'd been breastfed during or immediately before the attack . <p> Sponsor Message <p> Bolbol recorded her arrival in the hospital 's newborns registry , along with the date and location where she was found . <p> But nobody knew if her family had survived -- and no one knew the baby 's name . <p> " I myself wrote the word ' unknown ' on her file , " Bolbol says . <h> A nurse gives her a name <p> Thousands of Palestinian children are believed to have been orphaned in Israel 's ongoing offensive in Gaza . <p> To date , more than 44,000 Palestinians have been killed and more than 100,000 injured by Israeli forces , according to Gaza health officials . Humanitarian groups estimate thousands of young children and infants are among the dead . The war was sparked on Oct. 7 , 2023 , when Hamas launched one of the deadliest attacks on Israel in recent history , killing nearly 1,200 people , according to Israeli officials . <p> Later that same month , when the infant girl was brought to Shifa , hopes were high that the war would end quickly and the newborn 's parents or relatives would show up looking for her . <p> Instead , Israeli soldiers , pursuing Hamas operatives , invaded the hospital in November , and the baby 's records were lost after intense shooting and fighting took place inside the facility . <p> " Her file is gone , " Bolbol says . <p> Baby Malak , then about a month old and identified only as " unknown baby , " lies in an incubator at Al Helal Emirati hospital in Rafah in November , after being evacuated with other newborns from Gaza City . " Her day was all about staring at the roof of the room , " says Abu Khatleh , the nurse who took her in . Amal Abu Khatleh hide caption <p> toggle caption <p> Amal Abu Khatleh <p> The baby and 30 other premature infants were evacuated in a high-stakes international operation to the Al-Helal Al-Emirati Hospital in the southern Gaza city of Rafah . <p> The babies were transferred with only a list of their mothers ' names -- something the unknown newborn girl did not have . <p> In the neonatal intensive care unit , she shared the same incubator with others , as the war continued and more infants were brought to Rafah from Gaza hospitals . Doctors opened a new file for her , indicating she was an " unknown baby -- unidentified . " <p> " Her file only read , ' a survivor from a massacre in Al-Sabra neighborhood , ' " recalls Amal Abu Khatleh , a 33-year-old nurse who was working in the Emirati hospital when the babies were brought in . <p> Sponsor Message <p> Abu Khatleh could n't tolerate the term " unknown " for a baby girl . So she decided to give her a real name : Malak . In Arabic , it means angel . <p> " I have fallen in love with her , " Abu Khatleh says . <h> The nurse became the baby 's foster mother <p> Baby Malak shared the same incubator with other infants for two months , but Abu Khatleh worried that she would be exposed to infections and could suffer developmental problems if she were left in the hospital without enough human contact . <p> " Her day was all about staring at the roof of the room , " the nurse says . <p> So Abu Khatleh , who is single with no children of her own , asked the hospital to allow her to take Malak home with her . After weeks of discussions , the hospital agreed -- on the condition that she bring Malak back when the war is over . <p> A series of photos of Malak taken at home in Deir al-Balah in July . Amal Abu Khatleh hide caption <p> toggle caption <p> Amal Abu Khatleh <p> Abu Khatleh brought Malak home and took care of her in Rafah until May , when Israeli soldiers invaded the city . Abu Khatleh and the baby , then about 6 months old , fled along with much of the rest of Rafah 's population . Amid shooting , Abu Khatleh carried Malak on foot until they reached the nearest city , Khan Younis , about seven miles away . <p> " I was extremely afraid with every single step , " Abu Khatleh recalls . " I was carrying Malak all the way . I took her toys , clothes , diapers and milk . I had to choose between my things and hers . I took hers . " <p> After they reached Khan Younis , she and the baby went by taxi to Deir al-Balah in central Gaza , where the two have been sheltering since . <h> A search for surviving family <p> Abu Khatleh opened an Instagram account , posting videos of Malak and desperately searching for any living relatives . All the comments she has received are of support and blessings , but no leads . <p> There are no surviving records of new births from the first days of the war , says Zaher Al Wahaidi , head of the Gaza Health Ministry data entry department . <p> In August , Malak is taken to a park in Deir al-Balah for the first time in weeks . Abu Khatleh had feared taking her out the previous month due to ongoing fighting . Amal Abu Khatleh hide caption <p> toggle caption <p> Amal Abu Khatleh <p> There is also little chance that Malak 's parents had registered her birth during intense Israeli airstrikes in northern Gaza at the beginning of the war , Al Wahaidi says . <p> Sponsor Message <p> " I will keep her if I never manage to find her real parents , " Abu Khatleh says . <h> A mother-child relationship <p> In addition to a name , Abu Khatleh decided to give Malak a date of birth . Given her experience with premature babies and their development , she says Malak was likely born around Oct. 23 , 2023 . And , she says , the double 23 sounded special enough . <p> Her love for Malak has only grown over time . The baby stays with her sister while Abu Khatleh works during the day . <p> Malak , who was found without family in Gaza City as a newborn last year after an Israeli attack , celebrated her first birthday in October in Deir al-Balah . Amal Abu Khatleh hide caption <p> toggle caption <p> Amal Abu Khatleh <p> " When I am back from work , that is party time for her , " the nurse says of Malak . " She gives me a hug and many kisses . She even looks like me now . " <p> And Malak recently celebrated her first birthday in the two-bedroom apartment in central Gaza where she lives now with Abu Khatleh , Abu Khatleh 's sister and nine other children . She wore a white , frilly dress . There was a cake , popcorn and sweets . 
@@118519847 <h> The Utah senator 's co-sponsorship of the No Bailouts for Campus Criminals Act comes after 20 individuals -- including five students -- have been arrested while protesting at the University of Utah in support of Palestine . <p> The thousands of people who have been arrested in a wave of pro-Palestinian protest encampments on college campuses would not have access to student loan forgiveness under a bill introduced on Tuesday by Sen. Mitt Romney and 18 of his Republican colleagues . <p> A news release from the Utah senator 's office labeled the protests calling on institutions to sever ties with Israel " antisemitic . " The death toll in Gaza has risen to a point that authorities are no longer able to keep track , but believe it is somewhere over 34,000 . Around 1,200 Israelis were killed in attacks on southern Israel in October . <p> Students at the University of Utah first established an encampment on the west side of campus Monday , and police wearing riot gear forcibly cleared the encampment later that night . As protests have continued , the number arrested has risen to 20 -- five of whom are students . <p> If passed and signed into law , Senate Republicans ' No Bailouts for Campus Criminals Act would punish student protesters convicted of a crime . <p> " The Biden Administration 's student loan relief schemes are unfair and irresponsible -- forcing hardworking Americans to pay off debts they never agreed to take on -- and I introduced the Student Loan Accountability Act in 2022 to block these schemes , " Romney said in a statement . <p> He continued , " But no one should especially support a taxpayer bailout for students who engage in the criminal behavior we 're seeing on college campuses across the nation right now.Our legislation ensures that students convicted of a crime while protesting at our institutions of higher education are ineligible for federal student debt relief . " <p> Democrats in Congress have been split on how to respond to the encampments -- some have supported arrests , while others have said such measures violate the First Amendment . <p> " Some of us have been out of school for a while and may have forgotten our American history , " Vermont independent Sen. Bernie Sanders , who caucuses with Democrats , posted on X Wednesday night . " Protesting injustice and expressing our opinions is part of our American tradition and what makes this , in fact , a free country . That 's what the Constitution is all about . " <p> Utah 's four congressional representatives all voted " yea " Wednesday on the Antisemitism Awareness Act , which would empower the federal government to crack down on protests by widening what is legally considered antisemitism to go beyond threats against Jews and include some criticisms of Israel . 
@@118519848 <h> Hundreds of U. students had joined nationwide campus rallies in support of Palestine , setting up an encampment outside the university 's administration building . <p> Editor 's note : This story has been updated to reflect a new tally provided by the University of Utah of the number of protesters arrested . <p> What had been a peaceful pro-Palestine rally at the University of Utah ended violently when officers in riot gear charged at students -- knocking them down with shields , dragging some off by their arms or feet , and ripping their tents from the ground . <p> The demonstrators who had come together Monday continued to chant as police moved into their encampment : " We will not stop . We will not rest . " <p> As they were detained or dispersed , the shouts grew quieter . Just before midnight , eight hours after the rally started and one hour into the clash with law enforcement , it was over . <p> More than 100 officers from agencies across Salt Lake County stood at the edge of the cleared campus , forming a line of black helmets and vests in front of the welcome sign for the state 's flagship university . <p> It was an unprecedented show of force in recent memory for any campus rally in Utah . <p> The school 's police department said in a statement that 19 protesters were arrested . One student lay face down on the asphalt of University Street , his wrists zip-tied tight behind his back . An officer told him , " Do n't resist . " The police told students several times that it was an " unlawful assembly " and instructed them to leave -- or face " reasonable force " and " criminal consequences . " <p> ( Bethany Baker The Salt Lake Tribune ) A protester is arrested by law enforcement during the pro-Palestine rally at the University of Utah in Salt Lake City on Monday , April 29 , 2024 . <p> ( Chris Samuels The Salt Lake Tribune ) A protester is arrested during a demonstration in support of Palestine at the University of Utah , Monday , April 29 , 2024 . <p> By 11 p.m. , the officers formed a line , and they forcefully pushed into rallying students , who held up wood pallets and plastic tables as guards . Some screamed . Protesters threw water bottles , garbage and their crumpled rally posters at the officers . Flipping them off , the students shouted profanities and repeated , " Where are your morals ? " and " There is no violence here . Why are you in riot gear ? " <p> One protester had a hatchet tucked under her scarf . A group of officers piled on top of her and pried it from her hands . She was among those arrested . <p> Keith Squires , U. chief safety officer , responded in a statement : " Utah college campuses around the state are not exempt from the significant unrest that currently exists in our country and world . ... We honor all voices , but the right to speech on our campus must occur within the confines of state law and campus policies . " <p> The response from U. police falls in line with the growing pushback against students speaking out about the ongoing Israel-Hamas war . University of Utah students were the latest to join in with those at campuses nationwide , echoing the same chants heard at Columbia University and Yale , in California and Texas and Wisconsin . Hundreds of students across the country have been arrested . Some have also been suspended ; the U. said that was among the forthcoming consequences for students who participated Monday . <p> Like others , the Utah students called on their school to divest its endowment from any ties to Israeli companies and weapons manufacturers benefiting from the war . The U. has $1.47 billion total in its holdings . <p> The students specifically called on the U. to eliminate holdings from Lockheed Martin , which has a Utah location , and 47G ; both are involved in aerospace and defense . The U. also has a research partnership with 47G that was announced in 2023 and which it pays memberships due to be a part of . <p> " Trustees , you know , there 's blood on your portfolio , " the protesters yelled . Megaphones were spread out through the crowd that started out with at least 800 students and faculty . A handful of professors in the crowd wore their graduation robes . <p> ( Bethany Baker The Salt Lake Tribune ) A protester carries a Palestinian flag during the pro-Palestine rally at the University of Utah in Salt Lake City on Monday , April 29 , 2024 . <p> After rallying on the steps of the school 's administration building in Presidents ' Circle , the students set up more than 20 tents and tarps on the lawn in front of it , vowing they would n't leave until the university 's leadership answered their demands . <p> Inside is U. President Taylor Randall 's office . The students called on him to come out and negotiate . They wrote " Free Palestine " in chalk , in the hope that Randall would see it from his window . <p> " Our demands are firm and unwavering , " said U. student Alondra . The Salt Lake Tribune agreed not to include her last name as she fears repercussions from the school for speaking out . <p> It was the same student group -- Mecha , which is largely led by and for students of color -- that planned what they called the " emergency " rally and encampment Monday for Palestine . <p> ( Chris Samuels The Salt Lake Tribune ) People form an encampment during a demonstration in support of Palestine at the University of Utah , Monday , April 29 , 2024 . <p> ( Chris Samuels The Salt Lake Tribune ) People form an encampment during a demonstration in support of Palestine during a rally at the University of Utah , Monday , April 29 , 2024 . <p> They held hands and posters . They played hacky sack on the grass . Inside the circle , before it was interrupted , they had first-aid kits , granola bars and megaphones . Backpacks were scattered on the surrounding sidewalks , next to signs made out of pizza boxes that said , " Bombs made in Utah are killing kids in Gaza " and " Cut ties to Israel . " <p> Students waved small and large Palestinian flags as they sang : " Gaza , Gaza you will rise . Students are by your side . " Their voices cracked from hours of chanting . <p> Since the Israel-Hamas war started in October -- when the militant group Hamas attacked -- more than 32,000 Palestinians have been killed and 1,200 Israelis . <p> More tents were pitched as the hours passed in what the students called their " Solidarity Camp . " They wheeled in wagons full of sleeping bags . " This is the people 's university now , " they said . Most wore scarves and masks covering their faces . <p> Campus police had initially paced around the perimeter , holding bunches of zip ties . More law enforcement arrived , lining up across the street from students in a tense showdown . Some of the officers could be seen instructing others how best to use their plastic shields before the dispersal started . <p> ( Bethany Baker The Salt Lake Tribune ) People attend a rally in support of Palestine on the University of Utah campus in Salt Lake City , Monday , April 29 , 2024 . <p> The school did not issue a statement Monday about divesting from Israel and weapons companies . A spokesperson referred to a previous 2021 divestment report prepared by faculty that examined what it would take for the school to eliminate holdings in oil and gas companies -- which the U. has set goals for . <p> Additionally , the students asked for campus police to be permanently disbanded . They passed around papers listing what rights students have and advising them to stay quiet if detained , and they said there should be amnesty for all protesters participating in the event . <p> That 's unlikely to happen as several state leaders condemned the protest on social media . <p> Utah Gov . Spencer Cox posted on X , formerly known as Twitter , about the First Amendment not protecting " violence , threats to public safety , property damage , camping or disruptions to our learning institutions . We will protect protestors and arrest those who violate the law . " <p> We hold dear our First Amendment rights to protest and peaceably assemble . The First Amendment does not protect violence , threats to public safety , property damage , camping or disruptions to our learning institutions . We will protect protestors and arrest those who violate the ... <p> The Utah Department of Public Safety said any criminal activity during a protest would be " swiftly addressed . " <p> Salt Lake City Police Chief Mike Brown also joined in . His officers were part of the response . He said the situation was " prolonged , difficult and dangerous . " <p> The U. has in past decades seen large rallies on campus -- with calls to divest from Apartheid in South Africa in the 1980s and against the war in Vietnam in the 1960s . Both of those also came as students at colleges nationwide were speaking out . <p> " Do not let go of this moment , " said student Julio Irungaray at the rally Monday . " Make it bigger . ... You are part of something massive . You are on the right side of history . " <p> The protest ended on 200 South , near the Pie Pizzeria , where students typically gather in celebration after football games . Abandoned posters and pieces of neon nylon from ripped tents littered the ground . <p> Officers walked back over the area with flashlights . One said : " If we did n't have our gear on , it would 've been a disaster . " Some reenacted where they took students down . 
@@118519849 <h> Opinion : As university faculty and administrators , we should be mentoring -- not vilifying -- student protestors <h> Students are holding up a mirror to reveal our brokenness and flaws . I urge our local and national leaders to not lose sight of our mission to shepherd and mentor them , especially when they make mistakes . If we get back to that guiding moral principle , we can all hold our heads a little higher . <p> By Michael Christopher Low For The Salt Lake Tribune <p> May 3 , 2024 , 4:57 p.m . <p> For many months , students and faculty in Utah and across the country have been horrified by the unending violence and humanitarian crisis still unfolding in Gaza . While we do not all share the same perspectives on the conflict , the harrowing images emerging from Israel and Gaza have shocked our collective conscience . <p> All year , the Middle East Center at the University of Utah has sought to facilitate difficult , but sober conversations . We 've striven to create a culture of moderation and sensible dialogue , studiously avoiding provocation and extreme rhetoric . We offered roundtables to educate our faculty and staff to approach these issues with sensitivity . We 've worked hard to build a curriculum deeply grounded in the history and languages of the region . We 've also been frank in our presentation of the roots of the region 's conflicts , traumas and injustices . We 've brought world-class experts to Utah . We 've given a platform to rigorous , hard-hitting scholars who 've been able to navigate these complexities and nuances with integrity . We 've given our students the space and guidance to wrestle with the big questions that define this seemingly intractable conflict . Instead of accelerating into confrontation and protest , we 've done the slow , methodical , incremental work of education . And we 've operated from a foundational belief that peace is not a slogan ; that it takes hard work , sensitivity and intense self-reflection ; that it can only be attained by asking ourselves what rights and freedoms we must accord each other in order to safeguard our own . <p> While it might not be glamorous , the slow work of education should be the way forward for our institution and others like it . This approach , grounded in real expertise , stands in stark contrast to the leadership vacuum on display across the country . In recent days , I have been shocked by television and print media outlets vilifying student protestors . Instead of blaming 20-year-old students , it is , perhaps , more appropriate for the so-called adults , politicians , university officials , faculty and society at large to do some soul searching . To see the honorable calling and vocation of higher education blamed as the source of our current societal ills has been deeply upsetting . It has left me asking : How did we get here and what could we have done to have averted this crisis ? <p> From the outset of this conflict , President Joe Biden has failed to restrain Benjamin Netanyahu and Israeli leadership from pursuing a bloody campaign of revenge . Biden has always possessed the leverage to stop the conflict , but he has chosen not to exercise it . The result has been the slaughter of some 35,000 Gazans , including an appalling proportion of children , and the displacement of 1.7 million Gazans , leaving some 75% of the population as refugees . By placing virtually no limits on American military support for Israel , the United States has aided and abetted this humanitarian catastrophe , tipping the Middle East to the brink of a larger regional war with Iran and its proxies . Regardless of one 's feelings toward either side of the conflict , Israel 's campaign against Hamas has exacted a toll on Palestinian civilians that has pushed beyond the international legal boundaries of proportional response and into the realm of ethnic cleansing and even consideration of genocide by the International Criminal Court . These are the events stoking student protests across the country . <p> Do I always agree with protestors ? No . I frequently feel that their actions merely give ammunition to their opponents . Do I sometimes cringe at the crudeness of their slogans and chants ? Yes . On the other hand , the very real violence in the region and the United States ' role in it is hardly a figment of their imaginations . <p> As the carnage in Gaza unfolded over the past seven months , university presidents from Harvard , MIT , University of Pennsylvania , and Columbia were dragged before Congress to give testimony about antisemitism on college campuses . In each case , these presidents of the world 's most elite institutions displayed varying degrees of incompetence , but all showed cowardice and a craven instinct to genuflect before Congresswoman Elise Stefanik 's " gotcha " questions . By refusing to address the underlying crisis in Gaza and accepting the premise that antisemitism is rampant on college campuses , our leaders let us down . They should have vociferously challenged the premise of the questions and defended their faculty and the noble work that is done by professors all over the country . Is there antisemitism and other forms of racism in our society ? Yes , of course , there is . This is a shameful feature of American society , present on and off campus . At the same time , however , each of these university leaders could have refused to accept the dangerous premise that criticism of Israel 's war conduct equals antisemitism . They also should have directly addressed the implicit Islamophobia and anti-Palestinian racism inherent in this narrative . Instead of showing intellectual and moral clarity , they cowered and allowed these issues to be weaponized for political gain . <p> As universities across the country prepare to hold graduation ceremonies , I hope that the " adults " of America , including faculty and staff , university presidents and administrators , and parents , might be able to take a step back from their social media accounts and television screens . <p> I would ask the grown-ups to reflect on what college means to you . For me , it was a ticket to a better , richer life . These are the hopes that I carry for my own children . I want that for my students , too . As I watched police laying siege to college campuses from Columbia to UCLA at the behest of university presidents and trustees , outfitted in military-grade vehicles with weapons more suitable for war and counterterrorism operations , I would ask our leaders to reflect on how we arrived here . <p> This crisis is not the work of some insidious force of outside agitators . These are our children . They are not terrorists . They are ours . We made them . They have learned from us . Now , they are holding up a mirror to reveal our brokenness and flaws . I urge our local and national leaders to not lose sight of our mission to shepherd and mentor them , especially when they make mistakes . If we get back to that guiding moral principle , we can all hold our heads a little higher . <p> ( Photo courtesy of Michael Christopher Low ) Michael Christopher Low <p> Michael Christopher Low , assistant professor of history , directs the Middle East Center at the University of Utah . He is the author of " Imperial Mecca : Ottoman Arabia and the Indian Ocean Hajj " ( Columbia University Press , 2020 ) . He is currently working on a new book , " Saltwater Kingdoms : Fossil-Fueled Water and Climate Change in Arabia , " under contract with University of California Press . <p> The Salt Lake Tribune is committed to creating a space where Utahns can share ideas , perspectives and solutions that move our state forward . We rely on your insight to do this . Find out how to share your opinion here , and email us at voices@sltrib.com. 
@@118544353 <h> Loading .... <p> Before leaving office in January , President Joe Biden can still do much to bolster Ukraine 's security , and our own . The need for greater U.S. aid is obvious from reports from the war zone . <p> Last month , Russia 's all-out war against Ukraine crossed the 1,000-day mark . And just as it has since the first day of its invasion , the Russian military this past week relentlessly bombed not only Ukrainian army positions along the 600-mile front , but also houses , clinics , schools , power plants and factories all across Ukraine . <h> ABOUT THE AUTHOR <p> Mikhail Alexseev , a professor of international relations at San Diego State University , is the author of " Without Warning : Threat Assessment , Intelligence , and Global Struggle " and principal investigator of the War , Democracy and Society project funded by the National Science Foundation . <p> You 've seen footage of the utter destruction in Gaza from bombing campaigns : Imagine that on a scale of Texas , and you 'll have a sense of Ukrainians ' daily life . The attacks keep coming . In just one night last week , Russia launched a barrage of 188 missiles and drones aimed at 17 regions of Ukraine . <p> The Kremlin also keeps waging disinformation . It has grossly misrepresented that overnight blitz as a " response " to new Western aid and made overblown claims about Russia 's experimental ballistic missile , the Oreshnik , that hit Ukraine 's major industrial city of Dnipro a few days earlier . <p> And Ukraine is reporting a spike in the number of prisoners of war being murdered by Russians -- dozens of cases alleged in recent months , including 16 said to have been shot immediately after they surrendered . <p> Despite being often outmanned and outgunned , Ukrainian forces , with support from the U.S. and Europe , repelled most of the infantry assaults this past week -- 150 to 220 skirmishes each day . While ceding some territory here and there , they inflicted punishing losses on Russia . <p> Advertisement <p> The Ukrainian people are unbowed . Defying destruction and trauma , they continue to cherish and defend what Russia threatens to take away : About 85% of 418 respondents in my tracking poll in October with Ukraine 's Academy of Sciences Institute of Sociology said democracy and free speech are important to them . More than 80% said Ukraine will win the war . Around 90% said they will not compromise on Ukraine 's independence . <p> But change and uncertainty are in the air . In November , Russia gained territory in Ukraine faster than at any time since the early months of its full-scale invasion . Ukraine failed to get enough support from its allies to counter Russia 's devastating guided glide bombs . <p> In contrast , Russia got unprecedented assistance from North Korea , with an estimated 5 million artillery shells , 100 ballistic missiles and 11,000 troops sent into battle to counter Ukraine 's diversionary advance into Russia 's Kursk province . And the Kremlin is reaching out for more elsewhere , including to Houthis in Yemen and to the Taliban , with Moscow now set to remove that group from its list of terrorists . Russia 's economy is on a war footing and has grown more than twice as fast as the euro area over the last year despite Western sanctions . <p> In other words , Ukraine needs much more help to protect its sovereignty and hold the line against Russian expansionism . <p> Biden 's recent authorization for U.S.-supplied missiles to be used against targets in Russia has already enabled Ukraine to seriously damage an air base , an army base , a command hub , a powerful anti-aircraft complex and a major refinery and fuel depot that were sustaining Russia 's offensive . The first approved deliveries of U.S. antipersonnel land mines will help the beleaguered Ukrainian forces retain control of vital strongholds . <p> The next priority for the U.S. in the remainder of Biden 's term is to get the biggest bang possible out of the $6 billion that 's congressionally authorized to support Ukraine . <p> Advertisement <p> If the U.S. would supply Ukraine with about half of the 500 newly manufactured missiles in the American arsenal , Kyiv could deliver deadly blows to most of 200 military facilities within range that directly uphold the Russian offensive . ( So far , the U.S. has given Ukraine just 50 of these long-range missiles , known as the Army Tactical Missile Systems . ) <p> With three additional air defense systems , known as Patriot batteries , Ukraine can close vulnerabilities in its air defenses and even resume effectively targeting Russia 's glide-bomb-carrying aircraft . <p> If the U.S. would supply Ukraine with just one of the Terminal High-Altitude Air Defense batteries that we keep in reserve for contingency operations -- the same technology being sent to Israel to counter Iranian missiles -- Kyiv could take the sting out of Moscow 's longer-range ballistic missile threats . <p> Such strong actions taken in the next two months would also help the incoming Trump administration safeguard America 's strategic interests for years to come . Already , the president-elect has appointed Keith Kellogg , a retired Army general , to bring the Russia-Ukraine war to an end . <p> Kellogg 's plan is to use threats and inducements to get both sides to agree to a ceasefire along the current front lines . A hardened soldier and clear-eyed realist with a lifetime experience of great-power conflicts , the general is likely to learn quickly that Russian President Vladimir Putin will not settle for controlling one-fifth of Ukraine ; the Kremlin wants to get Ukraine and the West to capitulate . That would make Donald Trump look weak . After a new administration has been so publicly defeated , any deal with any nation on any issue will become much costlier and harder to achieve in the remainder of Trump 's four years . <p> To avoid this fiasco , Trump and his team will have to work out bolder and more effective ways to support Ukraine until Moscow has no choice but to accept a negotiated settlement with Ukraine 's security guarantees . Even if Trump 's priority is to end the war quickly , it would be dangerous to do that by pressuring Ukraine through diminished aid ; the only hope for a lasting peace that preserves U.S. standing would come through pressuring Russia . <p> Biden has a key role to play at this crucial juncture . The more boldly he can back Kyiv while still in office , the greater Ukraine 's chances of surviving as a free nation and the greater America 's chances of remaining the reigning superpower . <p> Comments are managed by our staff during regular business hours Monday through Friday as well as limited hours on Saturday and Sunday . Comments held for moderation outside of those hours may take longer to approve . 
@@118546753 <h> Ailing kids wait months for Israeli permission to leave Gaza for treatment . Some die in the meantime <p> By WAFAA SHURAFA and FATMA KHALED , Associated Press <p> Published : December 6 , 2024 , 1:41pm <p> Share : <p> 2 Photos <p> Qusay al-Askari , 4 , sits in a bed in Deir al-Ballah , Gaza Strip , on Nov. 16 , 2024 . His mother Nima al-Askari said she was told by doctors that her son could become paralyzed if he does n't get surgery in the next two or three months for a heart defect that constricts his aorta . ( AP Photo/Abdel Kareem Hana ) Photo Gallery <p> DEIR AL-BALAH , Gaza Strip ( AP ) -- The 12-year-old Palestinian boy was lying in a hospital bed in central Gaza , wracked with leukemia , malnourished and whimpering in pain despite the morphine doctors were giving him , when Rosalia Bollen , a UNICEF official , said she saw him in late October . <p> Islam al-Rayahen 's family had asked Israeli authorities six times over the past months for permission to evacuate him from Gaza for a desperately needed stem cell transplant , Bollen said . Six times , the request was refused for unexplained security reasons , she said . <p> Islam died three days after she saw him , Bollen said . <p> Thousands of patients in Gaza are waiting for Israeli permission for urgently needed medical evacuation from Gaza for treatment of war wounds or chronic diseases they ca n't get after the destruction of much of the territory 's health care system by Israel 's 15-month military campaign . <p> Among them are at least 2,500 children who UNICEF says must be transported immediately . <p> " They can not afford to wait . These children will die . They 're dying in waiting and I find it striking that the world is letting that happen , " Bollen said . <p> The Israeli military often takes months to respond to medical evacuation requests , and the number of evacuations has plunged in recent months . In some cases , the military rejects either the patient or , in the case of children , the caregivers accompanying them on vague security grounds or with no explanation . <p> The Israeli decisions appear to be " arbitrary and are not made on a criteria nor logic , " said Moeen Mahmood , the Jordan country director for Doctors Without Borders . <p> COGAT , the Israeli military agency in charge of humanitarian affairs for Palestinians , said in a statement to The Associated Press that it " makes every effort to approve the departure of children and their families for medical treatments , subject to a security check . " It did not respond when asked for details about Islam 's case . <p> A military official said Israel 's internal intelligence service reviews whether the patient or their escort have what he called " a connection to terrorism , " and if one is found they are refused . The official spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss confidential procedures . <p> Osaid Shaheen , who is nearly 2 , now faces having his eyes removed after Israel rejected his evacuation for treatment of cancer in his retinas . <p> The toddler was diagnosed with the cancer in April , after his mother , Sondos Abu Libda , noticed his left eyelid was droopy . The World Health Organization requested his evacuation through the Rafah border crossing in southern Gaza , but the crossing was shut down in May when Israeli troops took it over in an offensive , Abu Libda said . <p> WHO applied again , this time for Osaid to leave through the Kerem Shalom crossing into Israel , now the only route for evacuees to travel . During the long wait , the cancer spread to the child 's other eye and reached stage 4 . <p> In November , Abu Libda was told Osaid was rejected on security grounds with no further explanation . <p> She was stunned , she said . " I did n't expect that a child could get a security rejection . " <p> Doctors have given the boy three doses of chemotherapy . But with supplies short in Gaza , they 're struggling to get more . If they ca n't , they will have to remove Osaid 's eyes or the cancer will spread to other parts of his body , Abu Libda said . <p> " He 's just a child . How will he live his life without seeing ? How will he play ? How will he see his future and how will his life turn out ? " Abu Libda asked , standing outside the house where her family is sheltering in the Beni Suheil district of southern Gaza . <p> Nearby , little Osaid -- who so far still has his sight -- toddled around in the rubble of a building destroyed by Israeli forces , smiling as he played with chunks of rubble . When asked about his case , COGAT did not reply . <p> WHO says 14,000 patients of all ages need medical evacuation from Gaza . The territory 's Health Ministry puts the number higher , at 22,000 , including 7,000 patients in extreme need who could die soon without treatment , according to Mohamed Abu Salmeya , a ministry official in charge of evacuation referrals . <p> Since the war began on Oct. 7 , 2023 , 5,230 patients have been evacuated , said Margaret Harris , a WHO spokesperson . <p> Since May , when the Rafah crossing shut down , the rate has slowed down , with only 342 patients evacuated , she said , an average of less than two a day . Before the war , when Israeli permission was also necessary , around 100 patients a day were transferred out of Gaza , according to WHO . <p> More than 44,500 Palestinians have been killed and more than 105,000 wounded by Israel 's bombardment and ground offensives , launched in retaliation for Hamas ' Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack on southern Israel . The casualty toll , by Gaza 's Health Ministry , does not distinguish combatants from civilians -- but more than half are women and children . <p> Stay informed on what is happening in Clark County , WA and beyond for only <p> Gaza 's health system has been decimated , with only 17 of the territory 's original 36 hospitals functioning -- and those only partially . They struggle with the waves of war wounded on top of patients with other conditions . <p> Carrying out specialized surgeries or treatments in Gaza is difficult or impossible , with equipment destroyed , some specialist doctors killed or arrested and medical supplies limited . Gaza 's only dedicated cancer hospital was seized by Israeli troops early in the war , heavily damaged and has been shut down . <p> Doctors without Borders said in August , it sought to evacuate 32 children along with their caregivers , but only six were allowed to leave . In November , it applied for eight others , including a 2-year-old with leg amputations , but Israeli authorities blocked evacuation , it said <p> The military official said five of the eight requests in November were approved but the caregivers trying to travel with the children were rejected on security grounds . The official said Doctors Without Borders would have to resubmit the requests with alternate escorts . The official did n't say why the other three children were n't approved . <p> The rejected caregivers were the children 's mothers and grandmothers , said Mahmood , the Doctor 's Without Borders official , who said no explanation was given for the security concern . <p> Children long waiting for permission face dire consequences if they do n't get treatment . <p> Nima al-Askari said doctors told her that 4-year-old Qusay could become paralyzed if her son does n't get surgery in the next two or three months for a heart defect that constricts his aorta . <p> " Should I wait until my son becomes paralyzed ? " al-Askari said . " Everyone is telling me to wait until he gets evacuated . ... This is my only son . I ca n't see him in a wheelchair . " <p> Asma Saed said she has been waiting for three months to hear whether her 2-year-old son , Al-Hassan , can travel for treatment for kidney failure . In the meantime , they are living in a squalid tent camp in Khan Younis , with little clean water or food . <p> She said her son does n't sleep , screaming all night . <p> " I wish I could see him like any child in the world who can move , walk , and play , " she said . " He 's a child , he ca n't express his pain . " <p> Morning Briefing Newsletter <p> Get a rundown of the latest local and regional news every Mon-Fri morning . <h> Support local journalism <p> Your tax-deductible donation to The Columbian 's Community Funded Journalism program will contribute to better local reporting on key issues , including homelessness , housing , transportation and the environment . Reporters will focus on narrative , investigative and data-driven storytelling . <p> Local journalism needs your help . It 's an essential part of a healthy community and a healthy democracy . 
@@118565954 <h> Share on Social Media <p> " No Other Land , " a documentary shot over five years in Gaza by a collective of Israeli and Palestinian filmmakers , was named the best documentary of 2024 at the International Documentary Association 's 40th annual IDA Documentary Awards . <p> The film also won awards at the Berlin International Film Festival , where it premiered , and at the Gotham Awards , the New York Film Critics Circle Awards and the National Board of Review Awards . <p> At the IDA Awards , it came out on top in a category that also included " Black Box Diaries , " " Dahomey , " " Soundtrack to a Coup d'Etat , " " Sugarcane " and " The Remarkable Life of Ibelin . " <p> Its four directors -- Basel Adra , Hamdan Ballal , Rachel Szor &amp; Yuval Abraham -- won in the IDA 's directing category as well . At the beginning of the program , the film was also given the Pare Lorentz Award and the Courage Under Fire Award . <p> Documentary writing and editing awards went to " Soundtrack to a Coup d'Etat , " cinematography to " Queendom " and music to " Frida . " <p> In the television categories , awards went to the limited series " A Town Called Victoria , " the episodic series " We 're Here , " the curated series " Independent Lens " and the TV feature documentary " Two American Families : 1991-2024 . " <p> The short doc award went to " Instruments of a Beating Heart . " <p> The show took place at the Orpheum Theater in downtown Los Angeles and was hosted by comedian and writer Adam Conover . <p> Earlier in the week , the IDA came under fire for canceling ads taken out by an Israeli film , " We Will Dance Again . " The filmmakers charged the organization with anti-Israeli bias , a charge IDA lawyers dismissed as " fictional " in a letter to TheWrap . At the ceremony , in addition to the four awards for " No Other Land , " an Israeli student director won the award for student documentary and the limited series prize went to a series about antisemitic violence in Texas . <h> Subscribe to Breaking News . <p> Steve Pond has been writing about film , music , pop culture and the entertainment industry for more than 40 years . He has served as TheWrap 's awards editor and executive editor , awards since joining the company in 2009 . Steve began his career writing about music for the Los Angeles Times , where he remained a contributor for more ... <h> Steve Pond <p> Steve Pond 's inside look at the artistry and insanity of the awards race , drawn from more than three decades of obsessively chronicling the Oscars and the entertainment industry . 
@@118584643 <h> Services to share this page . <p> Welcome to Deadline 's roundup of the submissions for this year 's Best International Feature Film Oscar category . Below you will find details on each movie that has been officially put forward so far . The official deadline for submission was 5pm PT October 2 . We 've rounded up 86 submissions so far , against 88 last year , but announcements continue to trickle in . Keeping checking in for updates . <p> This is a hotly contested race that often results in clear front-runners but also surprising gems . Click on titles for links to reviews , first looks , news and more . <p> **30;734;TOOLONG : Robert BudinaProd : ErafilmNotes:Waterdrop , which will have its festival premiere in Warsaw next month , is set on the shores of Lake Ohrid where City Planner Aida , a tough and successful businesswoman , manages the allocation of lucrative EU subsidies , navigating a corrupt system . Her carefully constructed life crumbles when her teenage son is accused of sexual assault by a classmate . Aida launches her own investigation , defying both her husband 's wishes and the police . As she delves deeper , Aida encounters a suffocating wall of silence , envy and deep-seated prejudice , and must decide how far she 's willing to go and what she 's prepared to sacrifice in her quest for justice . Budina is repping Albania for the second time ; an advancement to the shortlist would be a first for the country . <h> Watch on Deadline <p> **28;766;TOOLONG : Chakib Taleb-BendiabSales : MAD SolutionsNotes : The kidnapping of a little girl creates tension and suspicion in Algiers . Only Dounia , a brilliant psychiatrist , and Sami , a police inspector , can unearth the demons of the past . Taleb-Bendiab 's debut feature world premiered at the Flickers ' Rhode Island Film Festival where it won the Grand Prize for Best Feature . Algeria has won the Oscar in the category once , on its first try with Costa-Gavras ' 1969 political thriller Z. Since then , it 's garnered four nominations , including three for Rachid Bouchareb . <p> ARGENTINATitle:Kill the JockeyDirector : Luis OrtegaSales : ProtagonistNotes : This absurdist comedy centers on a legendary jockey whose self-destructive behavior is beginning to outshine his talent and threaten his relationship with his girlfriend . On the day of the most important race of his career that will clear him of his debts to mobster boss Sirena , he has a severe accident , disappears from the hospital and wanders the streets of Buenos Aires . Free from his identity , he starts to discover who he is truly meant to be . But Sirena wants him found , dead or alive . Kill the Jockey premiered in Venice before playing TIFF . This is Ortega 's second time repping Argentina which has previously scored two wins and another six nominations . <p> ARMENIATitle : Yasha and Leonid BrezhnevDirector : Edgar BaghdasaryanProd : Edgar Baghdasaryan Film Production Notes : Yasha struggles to accept the new realities of post-Soviet Union life . With the help of historical leaders like Brezhnev and Ceausescu , he clings to the past with humorous and tragic consequences . This is Baghdasaryan 's first time repping Armenia which has made the shortlist only once , for last year 's Amerikatsi . <p> AUSTRIATitle : The Devil 's BathDirectors : Veronika Franz &amp; Severin FialaSales : ShudderNotes : This period horror movie set against the backdrop of 18th century Austria stars Anja Plaschg as a woman trapped in a marriage with a disinterested husband and controlling mother-in-law who makes her life hell . Struggling with the isolation and despair of her unfulfilling existence , she descends down a dark and disturbing path . Franz and Fiala 's Goodnight Mommy repped Austria in 2015 , but did not make the shortlist . The country has previously been nominated four times , converting two of those to wins for Michael Haneke 's Amour and Stefan Ruzowitzky 's The Counterfeiters . <p> BANGLADESHTitle:The Wrestler ( Boli ) Director : Iqbal Hossain ChowdhuryProd : Applebox Films LimitedNotes : Taking its local language title Boli from a traditional form of wrestling called Boli Khela , the film follows a middle-aged man from a fishing village who challenges a local champion , creating a stir in the community . The film world premiered at in the Busan International Film Festival 's New Currents sidebar in 2023 , winning best film . Bangladesh has yet to make to the short list or nomination stage . <p> BELGIUMTitle : Julie Keeps QuietDirector : Leonardo Van DijlSales : New Europe Film SalesNotes : As the star player at an elite tennis academy , Julie 's life revolves around the game she loves . When her coach falls under investigation and is suddenly suspended , all of the club 's players are encouraged to speak up . But Julie decides to keep mum . The film premiered in Cannes ' Critics ' Week , taking the Gan Foundation Award for Distribution . This is Van Dijl 's first time out repping Belgium ; the country itself has eight nominations under its belt , but no wins so far . <p> BOLIVIATitle:Own HandDirector : Gory Pati ? oProd : Macondo ArtNotes : A prosecutor , a father and his son fight to survive and seek justice in the midst of a mob-driven lynching in a Bolivian town , exposing the dangerous consequences of vigilante justice . No Bolivian feature has ever been nominated for an International Oscar , nor advanced to the shortlist . <p> BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINATitle : My Late SummerProd/Sales : Propeler FilmDirector : Danis TanovicNotes : One of Bosnia and Herzegovina 's most acclaimed directors , Tanovic returns to the awards season fray for a third time having won the Oscar and Golden Globe in the International Film category for No Man 's Land in 2002 , when it was still bannered best foreign language film , and reached the short list with An Episode in the Life of an Iron Picker in 2013 . His new film , which opened the 30th Sarajevo Film Festival over the summer , is a comedy drama about a young woman who travels to a remote island to solve an issue of family inheritance , and is forced to face questions from her past . The search for inheritance becomes a search for her own identity , but also forgiveness . Bosnia and Herzegovina also previously reached the nomination stage with Jasmila ? banic 's powerful Srebrenica massacre drama Quo Vadis , Aida in 2020 . <p> BRAZILTitle:I 'm Still HereDirector : Walter SallesU.S . Distributor : Sony Pictures ClassicsNotes : Veteran Salles returns for the fourth time to rep Brazil with his comeback feature that stars Fernanda Torres as the real-life figure Eunice Paiva , whose husband Rubens Paiva disappeared in the early years of the Brazilian military dictatorship . Torres ' mother , Fernanda Montenegro , who is considered one of the greatest Brazilian actresses of all time , also briefly shares the Eunice Paiva role . Salles has been nominated before in this category while Brazil has never won the trophy . <p> BULGARIATitle : TriumphDirector : Kristina Grozeva &amp; Peter ValchanovSales : BanksideNotes : Triumph is the final part of a trilogy by Grozeva and Valchanov that also includes the 2014 The Lesson and 2016 's Glory . The military satire is inspired by well-known real-life events from the 1990s when , in the chaotic aftermath of the fall of communism , a task force comprised of high-ranking Bulgarian army officers and psychics embarked on a top-secret military operation in the small village of Tsarichina to dig up an elusive alien artifact that would change the course of history and make Bulgaria great again . Borat 2 Oscar nominee Maria Bakalova stars and produces . Grozeva and Valchanov have repped their country twice before in this category ( with Glory and 2020 's The Father ) . Bulgaria has made the shortlist once , for 2009 's The World is Big and Salvation Lurks Around the Corner . <p> CAMBODIATitle : Meeting with Pol PotDirector : Rithy PanhSales : PlaytimeNotes : Panh 's narrative follows three French journalists who fly to Democratic Kampuchea , as the Khmer Rouge regime called Cambodia in 1978 , in the hopes of an exclusive interview with Pol Pot . By this time , the country has been under the rule of Pol Pot and his Khmer Rouge for three years . The journalists embark on a tightly stage-managed tour of the regime 's policies in action ; as they find a different reality behind the propaganda , their convictions are gradually turned upside down . Panh is perhaps Cambodia 's most internationally known filmmaker and has repped the nation four times . His 2013 The Missing Picture was nominated . <p> CAMEROONTitle : KismetDirector : Ngang RomanusProd : Chopfaya StudiosNotes : Against a backdrop of religious tensions over land disputes , Wambo , a 25-year-old Christian woman falls in love with Ibrahim , a Muslim man . Their relationship blossoms , but it also thrusts Wambo into the role of a reluctant mediator between the conflicting factions . Driven by her desire to bridge the divide and preserve their fragile love , she navigates treacherous waters . Romanus previously represented Cameroon with his first film Hidden Dreams in 2021 . This is the seventh Oscar entry by Cameroon which has yet to make it into the short list . <p> CANADATitle : Universal LanguageDirector : Matthew RankinU.S . Distributor : Oscilloscope Laboratories Notes : Universal Language is set in winter , somewhere between Tehran and Winnipeg , watching as Negin and Nazgol find a large sum of money frozen deep within the sidewalk ice and try to find a way to get it out . Massoud leads a group of befuddled tourists upon an increasingly absurd walking tour of Winnipeg monuments and historic sites . Matthew leaves his job at the Qu ? bec government and embarks upon a mysterious journey to visit his estranged mother . Time , geography and identities crossfade , interweave and collide into a surreal comedy of misdirection . The film premiered in Cannes earlier this year , and this is Rankin 's first time repping his country . It has received seven nominations , with one turning into a win -- for Denys Arcand 's 2003 The Barbarian Invasions . <p> CHILETitle : In Her PlaceDirector : Maite AlbertiU.S.Distributor : NetflixNotes : Produced by Pablo Larrain 's Fabula , which was behind Chile 's only Oscar win in this category -- 2017 's A Fantastic Woman -- Alberti 's film is set in 1955 Chile . When the popular writer Mar ? a Carolina Geel kills her lover , the case captivates Mercedes , the shy secretary of the presiding judge . After visiting the writer 's apartment , Mercedes begins to question her life , identity , and the role of women in society as she finds an oasis of freedom in that home . The world premiere was held in San Sebastian . <p> CHINA ( Note : Ruled ineligible by Academy ) Title:The Sinking Of The Lisbon MaruDirector : Fang Li , Ming FanProds : Emei Film GroupNotes : Fang Li and Ming Fan delve into a little known World War Two tragedy which occurred in 1942 when a Japanese ship ( the Lisbon Maru ) transporting British prisoners-of-war was torpedoed by the U.S. Navy . More than 800 British troops perished in the incident , while around 380 men were saved by nearby Chinese fishermen . This is the first time China has submitted a doc to the Oscar . The film world premiered as the opening title of the Shanghai International Film Festival in June , ahead of its domestic theatrical release on September 6 . China has nominated twice for Zhang Yimou 's Ju Dou and Hero , in 1990 and 2002 respectively . <p> COLOMBIATitle:La SupremaDirector : Felipe Holgu ? nProd : Cumbia FilmsNotes : In a remote Colombian village without electricity , a strong-willed teenager convinces her whole town to find a way of watching her estranged uncle compete in a world championship boxing match . The film premiered at TIFF in 2023 . Colombia scored its first and only nomination with 2015 's Embrace of the Serpent ; it advanced to the shortlist with 2018 's Birds of Passage . <p> COSTA RICATitle:Memories of a Burning BodyDirector : Anotonella Sudasassi FurnissSales : Bendita Film SalesNotes : Sudasassi Furniss returns to rep Costa Rica after 2019 's The Awakening of Ants . With this latest , which debuted in the Panorama section of Berlin , the story centers on three women who grew up during a repressive era when sexuality was a taboo subject . Sexa- and septugenarians Ana , Patricia and Mayela developed their understanding of what it means to be a woman based on unspoken rules and implicit expectations . Now they dare to talk about it openly . The memories , secrets and longings of the three are interwoven while the women tell their stories off screen , as they fill the body of another woman of their generation who incarnates their lives . Costa Rica has never advanced to the shortlist . <p> CROATIATitle : Beautiful Evening , Beautiful DayDirector : Ivona JukaProd : 4 FilmNotes : This is Juka 's first time repping Croatia , which has never advanced to the shortlist . The drama follows four friends who rebelled against the Nazi regime and joined the NOB ( People 's Liberation Movement ) . Sixteen years later , they are renowned artists who feel entitled to criticize the society they fought for . Although they are veterans worthy of the NOB , the party does n't like the films they create , and when their sexuality becomes suspicious , they hire Agent Emir to sabotage their work . <p> CZECH REPUBLICTitle : WavesDirector : Jir ? M ? dlSales : Urban SalesNotes : M ? dl 's historical thriller revolves around the international news office at Czechoslovak Radio , a place full of talented individuals possessing broad insight , linguistic skills and , above all , a commitment to honest work with a focus on the truth . Winner of the Karlovy Vary Audience Award , the film embraces heroism in the face of an oppressive regime , the strength of fraternal ties and the themes of love , betrayal , morality and hope . The Czech Republic has had three nominations since 1994 , with the first converting to a win for Jan Sverak 's Koyla . Most recently , Agnieszka Holland 's Charlatan made the shortlist in 2022 . <p> DENMARKTitle:The Girl with the NeedleDirector : Magnus von HornU.S . Distributor : MubiNotes : Karoline , a young factory worker , is struggling to survive in post-WWI Copenhagen . When she finds herself unemployed , abandoned and pregnant , she meets Dagmar , a charismatic woman running an underground adoption agency , helping mothers to find foster homes for their unwanted children . With nowhere else to turn , Karoline takes on the role of a wet-nurse and a strong connection is formed between the two women , but Karoline 's world shatters when she stumbles upon the shocking truth behind her work . The Girl with the Needle premiered in the Cannes competition . Four Danish films have previously won an Oscar in the International Feature Film category , most recently Thomas Vinterberg 's Another Round . <p> DOMINICAN REPUBLICTitle : Aire , Just BreatheDirector : Leticia TonosSales : LatidoNotes : Aire , Just Breathe landed the Fantastic Pavilion Award at Cannes 2023 before going on to screen at Rotterdam and South Korea 's Bucheon International Fantastic Film Festival . Described as a dystopian sci-fi drama , the pic is set in the year 2147 where men are sterile due to a virus leaving humankind almost extinct . Tania , a biologist , draws up a plan to inseminate herself to prevent this from happening with the help of an AI system called VIDA . Things take a turn when Azarias , one of the last men and a traveler with a dark past , suddenly appears . Starring are Sophie Ga ? lle , Jalsen Santana , and Paz Vega . <p> ECUADORTitle:Behind the MistDirector : Sebasti ? n CorderoProd : Jir ? fica F ? brica de CuentosNotes : More than 20 years after Iv ? n Vallejo became the first Ecuadorian to reach the top of Mount Everest in 1999 , he embarks on another climb , this time with filmmaker Cordero . In the midst of their odyssey , they realize they share many life coincidences but have opposing views on how to envision the documentary . Conversations about mountains and cinema will lead to an exchange of philosophical reflections . As the days pass , the increase in altitude and decrease in oxygen will elevate the debate , challenging both their trajectories and personal significance in the face of the mountain 's ancient magnitude and depth . This is Cordero 's third time repping Ecuador which has never advanced to the shortlist . <p> EGYPTTitle:Flight 404Director : Hani KhalifaU.S . Distributor : Ceema FilmsNotes : A box office hit in the MENA region , this female-empowerment thriller centers on Ghada , who attempts to obtain money for her mother 's sudden emergency surgery while preparing to depart Egypt to perform the Hajj . In doing so , she is forced to return to people from a tainted past . The film won the Special Jury Award and the Best Actress Award at the 13th Luxor African Film Festival . One of the world 's most prolific filmmaking countries , Egypt has never advanced to the shortlist . <p> ESTONIATitle:8 Views of Lake BiwaDirector : Marko RaatSales : Film RepublicNotes : A mysterious chain of tragedies and adventures follows a disaster in an Estonian village in what is billed as a free flowing , meditative journey through borders and cultural differences . 8 Views of Lake Biwa premiered at Rotterdam this year . This is Raat 's first time repping his country which previously scored its only nomination with 2014 's Tangerines . <p> FINLANDTitle:Family TimeDirector : Tia KouvoSales : The Match FactoryNotes : This tragicomic study on family dynamics , loneliness and being together is Kouvo 's feature debut and premiered in Berlin in 2023 . It begins during a Christmas family gathering where everything goes as usual ; grandfather drinks too much and grandmother is trying to keep up everyone 's mood . After Christmas , the family members go back to their own private lives , until it 's time for yet another family occasion . Finland has made the shortlist three times in the last decade , though it has advanced to only one nomination , for 2002 's The Man Without a Past . <p> FRANCETitle:Emilia P ? rezDirector : Jacques AudiardU.S . Distributor : NetflixNotes : A major title at this year 's Cannes -- scooping a collective Best Actress prize for its quartet of leads -- Emilia Per ? z implements song , dance and visuals to chronicle the journeys of four remarkable women in Mexico , each pursuing their own happiness . Among them is Rita , an unappreciated lawyer stuck in a dead-end job , who agrees to help the fearsome cartel leader Emilia fake her death so that she can finally live authentically as her true self . France is one of the most nominated countries in Oscar history , but has had a recently checkered past in terms of its selections ( the committee has was overhauled this summer ) . It has not had a win since 1992 's Indochine , but has made the shortlist or been nominated five times in the last decade . Audiard 's last nomination in this category was for 2009 's A Prophet . <p> GEORGIATitle:The AntiqueDirector : Rusudan GlurjidzeSales : MPM PremiumNotes : Glurjidze 's drama takes inspiration from the real-life illegal expulsion of thousands of Georgian nationals from Russia in 2006 , a group that included the director . The film revisits the period through the story of the friendship between an elderly Russian man and a young Georgian woman in Saint Petersburg . Its selection as the country 's rep came just two weeks after the feature was caught up in an unexpected legal battle at the Venice Film Festival when an emergency decree issued on behalf of Russian and Croatian producers led to the temporary suspension of its screening in the Giornate degli Autori section . Georgia received its first and only nomination on its first try , with 1996 's A Chef in Love . Since then , it has made the shortlist once , for 2014 's Corn Island . <p> GERMANYTitle:The Seed of the Sacred FigDirector : Mohammad RasoulofU.S . Distributor : NeonNotes : Iranian filmmaker Rasoulof 's political thriller centers on Iman , a devout man who is promoted to the position of investigating judge at the Revolutionary Court in Tehran just as a huge protest movement sweeps the country following the death of a young woman . As the state cracks down with tougher measures , he sides with the regime , upsetting the balance of his family , while his daughters are swept up in the events and his wife desperately tries to keep everyone together . When Iman discovers that his service weapon has disappeared , he comes to suspect a family member is responsible . Rasoulof has been living in Germany ever since his dramatic flight from his native Iran in May this year . He attended the world premiere screening in Cannes that same month where the film went on to win the Special Jury Prize among other accolades . Germany has a strong track record at the Oscars , with three wins and another 10 nominations since unification . <p> GREECETitle:The MurderessDirector : Eva NathenaSales : TanweerNotes : Based on Alexandros Papadiamantis ' novel , The Murderess takes place on a remote island in Greece , circa 1900 . There , Hadoula , trapped in her own mother 's rejection , struggles to survive the dictates of a patriarchal society . The film has taken several prizes including the Audience Award in Thessaloniki last year . The submission of Murderess in early September followed a turbulent selection process after a series of chaotic government-mandated U-turns that paralyzed the proceedings . Overall , the country has had five nominations , but never converted to a win . <p> HONG KONGTitle : Twilight Of The Warriors : Walled InDirector : Soi CheangSales : Media Asia Film DistributionNotes : Cheang 's martial arts neo-noir is the International Feature entry with the biggest box office , having grossed close to $100M worldwide since its release in Hong Kong and China on May 1 , 2024 , ahead of an international premiere in Cannes ' Midnight section . Set in 1980s Hong Kong , the picture follows the adventures of a young man from mainland China , who accidentally strays into the territory 's Kowloon Walled City . There , a lawless district which has since been demolished . Hong Kong , which has never won an Oscar , saw its entry A Light Never Goes Out disqualified last year due to a conflict of interests . <p> **31;796;TOOLONG : Lajos KoltaiSales : NFI World SalesNotes : Koltai was previously in the Oscar race as a cinematographer clinching a nomination for his work on Giuseppe Tornatore 's Malena at the 2001 awards . Some two decades later he is in the International Feature race with this period biopic celebrating 19th century pioneering Hungarian doctor Ignac Semmelweis . Known as the " Savior of Mothers , ' Semmelweis is heralded for his championing of better hygiene procedures to combat postpartum deaths . Released at home in November 2023 , the picture has drawn 350,000 spectators to become the highest grossing Hungarian movie in five years . Hungary has been nominated eight times , shortlisted twice and won two Oscars in the category , lastly for L ? szl ? Nemes ' Son of Saul . <p> ICELANDTitle : TouchDirector : Baltasar Korm ? kurSales : Focus FeaturesNotes : Korm ? kur 's fifth Icelandic Oscar entry is adapted from ? lafur J ? hann ? lafsson 's best-selling novel , with the director writing the screenplay in collaboration with the author . Egil ? lafsson stars as a widower who is spurred by an early-stage dementia diagnosis to track down a long-lost Japanese love who disappeared from his life many decades earlier . As the world shuts down in the early days of the Covid-19 pandemic , he sets off on a bittersweet odyssey . The territory , which has only been nominated once , made it to the short list stage of the 2024 Oscars with Hlynur P ? lmason 's Godland . <p> INDIATitle:Laapataa LadiesDirector : Kiran RaoProd &amp; Sales : Jio StudiosNotes : The Hindi film , which recently played TIFF , is a lighthearted satire on patriarchy , following two brides , whose identities are hidden by an elaborate head covering . On the eve of their wedding days , they get mixed up , setting them on the paths of very different destinies from those they had envisaged . This is Rao 's first time repping India whose prolific industry has notched three nominations , but never a win . <p> INDONESIATitle:Woman From Rote IslandDirector : Jeremias NyangoenSales &amp; Producer : Bintang Cahaya SinemaNotes:Woman From Rote Island marks Nyangoen 's feature directorial debut . The film screened at Busan and the New York Asian Film Festival before picking up five awards at Festival Film Indonesia , including Best Director and Original Screenplay . Set in Indonesia 's remote , rural south , the film follows recently widowed Orpa , living with her two daughters , Martha and Bertha , who confront discrimination and tradition after both of her daughters experience sexual violence . <p> IRANTitle:In the Arms of the TreeDirector : Babak Lotfi KhajepashaProd : Mohammad Reza MesbahNotes : A married couple destroys the beautiful life they created for their children when their relationship disintegrates in this family drama . Controversy surrounds Iran 's latest Oscar entry . Dissident Iranian cinema professionals are calling on AMPAS to reconsider its relationship with their country 's official state film body Farabi at a time when filmmakers who disagree with Iran 's authoritarian Islamist regime are being politically persecuted . The country has enjoyed Oscar success in the past thanks to Asghar Farhadi , who won in the category for A Separation and The Salesman and was shortlisted for A Hero . The director is now living outside of the country . <p> IRAQTitle:Baghdad MessiDirector : Sahim Omar KalifaSales : GoodfellasNotes : Belgium-based Kurdish director Kalifa explores the impact on ordinary lives of the sectarian violence in Iraq through this tale of a young boy whose dreams of becoming a soccer player are dashed when he loses a leg in a terror attack . Kalifa has past Oscar form with a short film based on the same premise making it onto the shortlist in 2014 in the Live-Action Short category of the 87th Academy Awards . <p> IRELANDTitle : KneecapDirectors : Rich PeppiattU.S . Distributor : Sony Pictures ClassicsNotes : This drama takes inspiration from real-life West Belfast rap trio Kneecap . Its members -- M ? glai Bap , Mo Chara and DJ Prova ? -- broke fresh ground in the late 2010s for their tracks mixing Irish and English lyrics , tapping into the zeitgeist of the streets they grew up on in the wake of The Troubles . The ensemble cast also features Michael Fassbender in an Irish-speaking supporting role . A resurgence in Irish-language filmmaking has seen Ireland become a regular and consequential participant in the international feature film category in recent years with Colm Bair ? ad 's The Quiet Girl making it to the nomination stage in 2022 . <p> ISRAELTitle : Come CloserDirector : Tom NesherSales : Fandango Notes : Lia Elalouf stars as a young woman who becomes obsessed with her recently deceased brother 's secret girlfriend . Nesher , who is the daughter of renowned Israeli director Avi Nesher , took inspiration from the real-life death of her brother in a hit-and-run accident in 2018 . Having world premiered at Tribeca , the picture won Best Film at the Israel Film Academy 's Ophir Awards in September making it Israel 's automatic Oscar entry . Israel , which has been nominated 10 times since 1964 , last made it into the short list in 2017 with Samuel Maoz 's Foxtrot . <p> **28;829;TOOLONG : Maura DelperoU.S . Distributor : Sideshow and Janus FilmsNotes : A Sicilian deserter arrives in a remote village in the Italian Alps in 1944 , changing the lives of the local teacher and his family forever in this studied period drama . When director Delpero won Venice 's Silver Lion Grand Jury Prize for the film in September , she expressed hope it would put her in the frame to represent Italy at the Oscars . The picture takes its title from the mountain village in the Italian Alps , which was home to Delpero 's family for generations and where the director immersed herself to write the screenplay . Italy , which has won the Best International Oscar 11 times , enjoyed a buzzy 2023-24 awards season with Matteo Garrone 's Io Capitano which made it to the nomination stage . <p> JAPANTitle : CloudDirector : Kurosawa KiyoshiSales : NikkatsuNotes : A-list festival regular Kurosawa takes his first shot at Oscar glory with this psychological thriller about a factory worker whose side hustle reselling goods online lands him in hot water . The film premiered Out of Competition in Venice , where Kurosawa previously won the Silver Lion for best director with Wife of a Spy in 2020 . Japan has recently been on a streak with a nomination for Wim Wenders ' Perfect Days in 2023 , and a win in 2022 with Ryusuke Hamaguchi 's Drive My Car . <p> JORDAN ( Note : Withdrawn by country after deadline ) Title:My Sweet LandDirector : Sareen HairabedianProd : SisterNotes : A documentary following 11-year-old Vrej , who dreams of becoming a dentist in his village in Artsakh in the region Nagorno-Karabakh , which has been at the heart of a violent dispute between Azerbaijan and Armenia since the 1980s . When conflict erupts again , Vrej and his family flee , only to return to a devastated homeland after their people lost the war . As Vrej faces the new harsh realities and prepares for future battles , he wrestles with the weight of his hopes and trauma . Film premiered at the Sheffield DocFest ahead of playing a number of festivals including the Amman International Film Festival , where it won the Jury Award for Best Feature Documentary and the FIPRESCI Award for Best Feature Length Arab Documentary . Hairabedian reps Jordan for the first time ; across six submissions , the country has been nominated once . <p> KAZAKHSTANTitle:Bauryna SaluDirector : Askhat KuchinchirekovSales : Wide ManagementNotes : This coming-of-age tale revolves around a young boy who was raised by his grandmother , having been separated at birth from his parents under a nomadic tradition , called Bauryna Salu . When his grandmother dies , he goes to live with his parents for the first time . It 's a difficult reunion as he also deals with the challenges of puberty . Kuchinchirekov draws on his own childhood for this first feature . He is a prot ? g ? of award-winning director Sergey Dvortsevoy , also appearing in his film Ayka ( 2018 ) , which made it onto the 2019 short list . <p> KENYATitle:NawiDirectors : Vallentine Chelluget , Apuu Mourine , Kevin Schmutzler , Toby SchmutzlerProd : FilmCrew MediaNotes : Set in the rural Turkana region of northwestern Kenya , the titular heroine is a gifted high school student who challenges her father 's decision to a marry her off to an older stranger . The educational feature tackling the issue of illegal child marriage was initiated by the Kenya and German-based Learning Lions NGO , which brought in Munich-based FilmCrew Media to oversee the production directed by Kenyan directors Chelluget and Mourine alongside the Schmutzler from Germany . <p> KYRGYZSTANTitle:Heaven is Beneath Mother 's FeetDirector : Ruslan AkunNotes : Adil is a 35-year-old man whose mental development remained at the level of an 8-year-old child . Adil lives in a small village with his mother who always tells Adil that the Almighty loves him in a special way , and therefore he will go straight to Heaven . But Adil does n't want to go to Paradise without his mother . One day he hears from a boy that if he takes his mother on foot to Mecca , then his mother can go to Heaven . This was one of the highest-grossing films at the local box office , but has reportedly not seen festival play outside Russia . The country has never received a nomination . <p> LATVIATitle:FlowDirector : Gints ZilbalodisU.S . Distributor : Sideshow and Janus FilmsNotes : After Hungary 's Four Souls of Coyote and Poland 's The Peasants last year , Latvia is the latest country to submit a feature animation to the International Feature category . The drama follows the adventures of a cat whose home is devastated by floods , forcing him to team up with a capybara , a lemur , a bird and a dog to navigate a boat in search of dry land . The film world premiered to acclaim in Cannes , ahead of playing in competition in Annecy , where it won four prizes including the Jury and Audience awards . <p> LEBANONTitle:Arz ? Director : Mira ShaibProd : Ambient LightNotes : Lebanese actress Diamand Abou Abboud ( The Insult , Insyriated ) stars as the titular Arz ? , a single mother whose home-cooked pizza delivery business is jeopardized when her scooter is stolen . Determined to retrieve their main source of income , she takes her teenage son on a journey across sectarian Beirut . The film 's selection as Lebanon 's entry comes as Beirut and its population remain caught in the crosshairs of the Israel-Hezbollah conflict , which has resulted in several Israeli airstrikes on the city since the end of September . Shaib and her writers/producers Faissal Sam Shaib and Louay Khraish describe the feature -- filmed in more than 20 locations across Beirut -- as an ode and love letter to the city . This is 20th Oscar submission , with the country previously making it to the nomination stage with The Insult in 2017 and Capernaum in 2018 . <p> LITHUANIATitle:Drowning DryDirector : Laurynas Barei ? aSales : Alpha VioletNotes : Winner of the Best Director prize in Locarno , the film follows two sisters ' lives in the aftermath of tragedy . Ernesta , her husband Lukas and her son are spending the weekend at a country house with her sister 's family after Lukas ' victory in a mixed martial arts tournament . The families are swimming in a nearby lake , having dinner , discussing family finances . After a tragic accident , the sisters become single mothers . Barei ? a has previously repped Lithuania once ; the country has never made it to the shortlist . <p> MALAYSIATitle : Abang Adik Director : Jing OngSales : Applause EntertainmentNotes : Taiwanese actor Wu Kang-ren won best actor in his country 's Golden Horse Awards last year for his performance role as a deaf-mute man in social drama Abang Adik about two brothers living in poverty in Malaysia . Malaysian actor Jack Tan co-stars as the younger brother who is enraged by their predicament . The film has played a raft of festivals including the Far East Film Festival in the Italian town of Udine , where it won the Golden Mulberry audience award , the Black Dragon Critics ' prize , and award for best first feature . Malaysia has never punched through at the Oscars but enjoyed a buzzy awards season last year with Amanda Nell Eu 's Tiger Stripes . <p> **27;859;TOOLONG : Abigail MalliaProd : Take TwoNotes : Delving into Malta 's political turmoil of the 1980s , this detective tale revolves around a woman who is trying to piece together the truth of her mother 's abandonment of her as a child shortly after her aunt 's suspicious death . The feature has been adapted from Clare Azzopardi 's 2018 novel by Maltese duo , director Abigail Mallia and screenwriter Carlos Debattista , who work under the banner of Take Two . It 's the fourth title to be submitted by Malta since it started participating in the category in 2014 . <p> **25;888;TOOLONG : Astrid Rondero &amp; Fernanda ValadezU.S . Distributor : The ForgeNotes : The winner of Sundance 's Grand Jury Prize for World Cinema centers on the titular beloved son of a small-town cartel gunman who narrowly escapes death when his father is murdered . His aunt takes him in and raises him in the isolated countryside amidst hardship , poverty and the constant peril associated with his identity . When Sujo enters his teens a rebelliousness awakens in him and he joins the local cartel . As a young man , he attempts to make his life anew , away from the violence of his hometown . But when his father 's legacy catches up with him , he will come face-to-face with what seems to be his destiny . The filmmakers are repping Mexico for the first time . The has booked one win , for Alfonso Cuaron 's Roma , alongside another eight nominations . It has advanced to the shortlist each of the last four years . <p> MONGOLIATitle:If Only I Could HibernateDirector : Zoljargal PurevdashSales : Urban SalesNotes : World premiering in Cannes Un Certain Regard this year , Purevdash 's debut feature made history as the first Mongolian picture to play in the French festival 's hallowed Official Selection . The drama follows a teenager living in the yurt district of Mongolia 's capital , Ulaanbaatar , whose dreams of going to school are dashed after his mother takes a job in the countryside , leaving him and his siblings to fend for themselves . <p> **35;915;TOOLONG : Nemanja BecanovicProd : VHS ProductionNotes : Montenegro 's 11th entry to the International Film category since it started participating in 2013 , is described as a modern-day Robin Crusoe tale , in which the island is replaced by a supermarket . Prolific actor Bojan ? irovic stars as a man living a seemingly idyllic life under the radar in a supermarket , until he gets the sensation he is being watched . <p> MOROCCOTitle : Everybody Loves ToudaDirector : Nabil AyouchSales : mk2 FilmsNotes : Ayouch represents Morocco for the sixth time with this drama that explores the country 's tradition of Sheikhat , a type of sung poetry performed by women which has its roots in 19th century rural communities . A young woman with aspirations of reviving the once hallowed status of Sheikhat finds herself instead performing in provincial bars under the gaze of lustful men . This is Morocco 's 20th Oscar submission since it started participating in the category in 1977 . The country has never made it to nomination stage in the category , although recent submissions The Blue Caftan and The Mother of All Lies both made it onto the shortlist in 2022 and 2023 . <p> NEPALTitle : ShambhalaDirector : Min Bahadur BhamSales : Best Friend ForeverNotes : The Nepalese Himalayas is one of the few places in the world where the practice of polyandry , allowing women to have several husbands , is prevalent . Nepal 's latest Oscar entry is driven by this premise as it follows a woman who treks across the mountains in pursuit of the father of her unborn child , who is her main husband alongside his two brothers . The film made history as the first Nepalese title to play in competition at the Berlinale this year . This is Bham 's second shot at an Oscar after Black Hen represented Nepal in 2016 . The country has never won in the category but was nominated for French director Eric Valli 's Himalaya/Caravan in 1999 . <p> NETHERLANDSTitle : Memory LaneDirector : Jelle de JongeProd : Hazazah PicturesNotes : Together for almost 50 years , Jaap and Maartje are jolted out of their humdrum existence by a letter from an old friend , which leads to a road trip from Netherlands to Southern Europe they last undertook many years ago . This journey through a much-altered landscape stirs up old memories but also reveals Maartje 's dementia , as the couple rediscover what it is they love about each other . Netherlands has plumped for a local crowd pleaser rather than an international film festival hit to represent it this year , with the film drawing some 200,000 spectators to date for a rough gross of $2.1M at home . <p> **26;952;TOOLONG : Halfdan Ullmann T ? ndelU.S . Distributor : IFC FilmsNotes : Forty years after Ingmar Bergman last participated in the main Oscar categories with Fanny and Alexander , grandson Halfdan Ullmann T ? ndel joins the awards season fray with his first feature . The psychological drama unfolds within a heated elementary school mediation session between two mothers -- played by Renate Reinsve ( The Worst Person in the World ) and Ellen Dorrit Petersen -- after one of their young sons is accused of bullying the other . The film premiered in Cannes ' Un Certain Regard in May , becoming the first Norwegian film to win the Camera d'Or . <p> PALESTINETitle:From Ground ZeroDirector : Rashid MasharawiSales : Coorigines ProductionNotes : Amid the daily images of death and destruction out of Gaza as Israel continues its military campaign in response to Hamas 's October 7 terror attacks , this year 's Palestinian entry captures life in the territory from another angle . Instigated by Gaza-born filmmaker Masharawi , the omnibus work gathers 22 shorts by filmmakers and artists capturing their relationship with their art amid the devastation around them . World premiering in an unofficial protest screening on the fringes of the Cannes Film Festival , it has since played officially at Toronto , Taormina and Amman . Palestine began submitting to the category in 2003 and has been nominated twice for Paradise Now and Omar , both by Hany Abu-Assad . <p> PAKISTANTitle : The GlassworkerDirector : Usman RiazProduction Company : Mano Animation StudiosNotes : The first feature from Pakistani-born animator Usman Riaz , The Glassworker follows Vincent and his father Tomas . The duo runs the finest glass workshop in the country , but they find their lives upended by an approaching war . The arrival of an army colonel and his young , aspiring violinist daughter Alliz , puts the father-son relationship to the test . The Glassworker screened Annecy and the Shanghai Film Festival . <p> PANAMATitle:Wake Up MomDirector : Arianne BenedettiProd : Magma CineNotes : In a small town in the middle of the mountains , a girl disappears without leaving a trace . As the town 's darkest secrets begin to be revealed , the desperate mother of the little girl undertakes a tireless search trying to find her before it 's too late . A Guadalajara Film Festival selection , this is Benedetti 's second time repping Panama which has made the shortlist once , for the 94th Oscars . <p> PARAGUAYTitle : The LastDirector : Sebasti ? n Pe ? a EscobarProd : La Babosa CineNotes : Escobar follows German entomologist Ulf Drechsel and the Paraguayan ornithologist Jota Escobar on a journey into Paraguay 's vulnerable Gran Chaco natural region in Paraguay , which is under serious threat from large-scale deforestation and wildfires . Along the way , the pair reflect on the region , humanity and the earth in general . The work world premiered at the International Film Festival Amsterdam in 2023 . It is a first film for Escobar , who is better known in the international indie film world as a producer , with credits including Berlinale Silver Bear winner The Heiresses , which was Paraguay 's Oscar entry in 2018 . <p> **28;980;TOOLONG : ? scar Catacora &amp; Tito CatacoraProd : Cine Aymara StudiosNotes : The communal justice system accuses 80-year-old Don Evaristo for the murder of his 13-year-old granddaughter , Yana-Wara . During the trial , everyone learns the tragic story of this young girl , who , because of gender violence , begins to have terrifying visions after being touched by the evil spirits that inhabit the forbidden places of the Andes . The film is the posthumous work of ? scar Catacora , following his death in 2021 . It played the the Lima and Malaga Film Festivals in 2023 . Peru 's sole nomination was for 2009 's The Milk of Sorrow . <p> PHILIPPINESTitle:And So It BeginsDirector : Ramona S. DiazSales : CinephilNotes : Celebrated Filipino-American documentarian Diaz delves into her country 's thorny political scene through this portrait of inspirational lawyer and poverty-fighting politician Leni Robredo as she runs for president in the 2022 elections against Bongbong Marcos , son of kleptocrat and dictator Ferdinand Marcos . The documentary premiered at Sundance , where Diaz is a regular guest , having been previously invited been invited with Imelda and A Thousand Cuts , about pioneering journalist and Rappler CEO Maria Ressa . This is the first time the Philippines has submitted a documentary . The territory has never made it to the short list stage . <p> POLANDTitle:Under the VolcanoDirector : Damian KocurSales : Salaud MorissetNotes : World premiering as a special presentation at Toronto , this topical drama follows a Ukrainian family whose carefree vacation on the Spanish island of Tenerife is cut short by the Russian invasion of their country , transforming them from tourists into refugees . Director Kocur has said he was shaken by Russia 's invasion of neighboring Ukraine , which led him to explore questions around whether the world was becoming a more dangerous place . The film is also due to play London and Zurich . This year 's new look Polish Oscar selection committee was chaired by Pawel Pawlikowski , whose drama Ida won the Best Foreign Language Film Oscar ( as it was called then ) in 2015 . <p> PORTUGALTitle:Grand TourDirector : Miguel GomesU.S . Distributor : MubiNotes : Gomes won best director with for his black-and-white period odyssey at Cannes , playing in its main competition for the first time , having previously unveiled Arabian Nights in the Directors ' Fortnight parallel section . Opening in Rangoon , Burma in 1918 , the drama follows British civil servant Edward Abbot as he flees his impending marriage , with fianc ? e Molly Singleton in hot pursuit . If Grand Tour advances , it would break Portugal 's run of not a single nomination or shortlisted entry . <p> ROMANIATitle:Three Kilometers to the End of the WorldDirector : Emanuel P ? rvuSales : GoodfellasNotes : P ? rvu 's thriller revolves around a 17-year-old who is spending the summer in his home village in the Danube Delta wetlands region . One night , he is brutally attacked on the street and the next day his world is turned upside-down . His parents no longer look at him as they did , and the seeming tranquility of the village starts to crack . The film premiered in Cannes , winning the Queer Palm and later taking Best Film at the Sarajevo festival . While Romania has had only one nomination in this race , its influence is undeniable -- the category was overhauled when Cristian Mungiu 's lauded 2007 Palme d'Or winner 4 Months , 3 Weeks and 2 Days failed to advance to the shortlist . <p> **28;1010;TOOLONG : Mati DiopU.S . Distributor : MubiNotes : Diop 's Golden Bear-winning documentary borrows its name from the former West African kingdom of Dahomey , founded in the 17th century by King Houegbadja . Under his reign and that of his descendants , the kingdom was a considerable regional power , with a highly structured local economy , a centralized administration , a system of taxes , and a powerful army , including the famous Amazon women ( Agodji ? ) . The film opens in November 2021 as 26 royal treasures from the former Kingdom are about to leave Paris to return to their country of origin . Along with thousands of others , these artifacts were plundered by French colonial troops in 1892 . But what do these ancient treasures mean in a country that has had to forge a new existence in their absence ? Senegal has entered only six films in this category , making the shortlist twice , including with Diop 's 2019 debut , Atlantics . <p> SERBIATitle:Russian ConsulDirector : Miroslav LekicProd : Telekom SrbijaNotes : Set in 1973 , Lekic 's second entry for Serbia describes the beginning of the crisis in Kosovo . After the death of a patient , Serbian psychiatrist Ilija Jugovic goes to Kosovo , under the punishment of the Party , and gets a job as a general practitioner in a local hospital . There he meets history professor Ljubo Bo ? ovic , the self-proclaimed " Russian Consul , " a patient who claims that soon " Russia will become Russia again , and Kosovo will be Serbian again . " Powerful local Albanian separatists turn against Bozovic , but doctor Jugovic stands up for him . Only one Serbian film has ever advanced to the shortlist , 2007 's The Trap . <p> SINGAPORETitle:La LunaDirector : M. Raihan HalimSales : Clover FilmsNotes : The sophomore feature from the director is the first Malay-language film selected as Singapore 's entry in eight years . Co-produced by Singapore and Malaysia , La Luna is a comedy about a woman who opens a lingerie shop in a conservative Malaysian village . The film had its world premiere at the 2023 Tokyo International Film Festival and later played Rotterdam . Singapore has never advanced to the shortlist . <p> SLOVAKIATitle:The Hungarian DressmakerDirector : Iveta Gr ? fov ? Sales : Reason8 FilmsNotes : An adaptation of the novella by Peter Kri ? t ? fek , the film is set in the late 1940s as the Slovak state witnesses the rise of nationalism . The turbulent social mood impacts the widow Marika , who loses her job in an Aryanised dressmaker 's shop . Given the increasing anti-Hungarian sentiment , she shuts herself away , particularly since she is also harboring a little Jewish boy . Despite this , she still finds herself singled out by two men : a German Nazi officer and a captain of Slovakia 's Hlinka Guard . Gr ? fov ? ' s sophomore Oscar submission world premiered at Karlovy Vary over the summer ; Slovakia has never advanced to the shortlist . <p> SLOVENIATitle:Family TherapyDirector : Sonja ProsencSales : MonooNotes : In this black comedy , which world premiered in Tribeca this year , a nouveau riche family living in a literal glass house finds their life of detached superiority upended when the patriarch 's son from another relationship arrives at the family home , revealing cracks in their staid fa ? ade . Also playing the Sarajevo festival , the film won the Arthouse Cinema Award by the CICAE jury . Prosenc scores a hat trick here , representing Slovenia for the third time -- if she advances to the shortlist it would be a first for the country . <p> SOUTH AFRICATitle : Old Righteous BluesDirector : Muneera SalliesProd : Indigenous Film DistributionNotes : Taking inspiration from the Western Cape Province 's tradition of Christmas choir-bands , Muneera Sallies 's second feature follows a young man 's journey to revive the once-glorious Old Righteous Blues Christmas Choir Band after a feud split the musical ensemble and the local community for more than two decades . Alongside capturing life in the Western Cape , the drama also touches on universal themes of redemption , community and overcoming wrongs from the past . South Africa won the Oscar for Gavin Hood 's Tsotsi in 2005 , having been nominated the previous year for Darrell Roodt 's Yesterday . In more recent years it made the short list with Oliver Schmitz 's Life , Above All and John Trengove 's The Wound . <p> SOUTH KOREATitle:12.12 : The DayDirector : Kim Sung-suU.S . Distributor : 815 Pictures/NetflixNotes : This historical action film was the highest-grossing movie of 2023 in its home market , taking in over $86M . Set in December 1979 , after the assassination of President Park , martial law has been declared in Seoul . A coup d ' ? tat bursts out by Defense Security Commander Chun Doo-gwang and a private band of officers following him . Capital Defense Commander Lee Tae-shin , an obstinate soldier who believes the military should not take political actions , fights against Chun . In the midst of chaos , the spring of Seoul that everyone longed for heads in an unexpected direction . Bong Joon-ho 's 2019 Parasite broke the Oscars spell for Korea , securing not only the first International Feature nomination and win for the sophisticated market , but also the Best Picture prize . Since then , there has been one film shortlisted in the International race , 2022 's Decision to Leave by Park Chan-wook . <p> SPAINTitle:Saturn ReturnDirectors : Isaki Lacuesta &amp; Pol Rodr ? guezSales : Latido FilmsNotes : It 's the late 1990s , and Granada indie music group Los Planetas is about to record their third album . But with the band in turmoil , they find themselves on the brink of success ... or total destruction . Can they come together against all odds or collapse in a ball of fire ? Inspired by the story of one of the most popular Spanish bands of the ' 90s , the movie won Best Film , Director and Editing at the Malaga Film Festival . Spain is one of the most nominated and winning countries at the Oscars with four statues in this category . It was most recently nominated for JA Bayona 's Society of the Snow at the 96th Academy Awards . <p> SWEDENTitle:The Last JourneyDirectors : Filip Hammar &amp; Fredrik WikingssonProd : NexikoNotes : When Lars Hammar retires after 40 years as a French teacher , he looks forward to a wonderful time filled with travel , wine and experiences with his wife Tiina . However , Lars becomes passive and apathetic , to the great frustration of Tiina and her son Filip . Then Filip gets a brilliant idea -- to take his old father to France to relive the places that have meant the most to him . By recreating the family 's old car holidays , he hopes to reawaken his father 's spark of life . With the help of his best friend Fredrik , a large dose of optimism and creativity , as well as an old , orange Renault 4 , the adventure begins . A smash in its home country , The Last Journey went on to become the highest-grossing documentary ever in the market . Sweden counts more than a dozen nominations in the International race , but only three films have ever won a trophy -- each directed by the legendary Ingmar Bergman . <p> **31;1040;TOOLONG : Klaudia ReynickeU.S . Distribution : Outsider PicturesNotes : The family drama is set in 1992 Peru as the country undergoes social and political upheaval . Against this backdrop Luc ? a and Aurora 's single mother Elena is drawing up plans to leave the country with her daughters . The decision sees the girls grow closer to their previously absent father , as the impending farewell from home and family draws ever nearer . Reinas world premiered in Sundance then played the Berlinale , where it won theGrand Prix of the Generation Kplus section before scooping the Audience Award in Locarno . It heads to the Mill Valley Festival in October . <p> TAIWANTitle:Old FoxDirector : Hsiao Ya-chuanU.S . Distributor : 815 PicturesNotes : In 1989 , a time in which Taiwanese society is experiencing rapid change , Liao Tai-Lai is a single father who works in a restaurant . He and his 11-year-old son Liao Jie , live together in a rental house and work hard to save money in the hope of buying a home of their own . Although socially disadvantaged , his father is a considerate man who is dedicated to his duties and strives to earn an honest living . One day , the boy meets his landlord , known as the " Old Fox . " The shopping mall tycoon sees the reflection of his own past in the boy and teaches him how to leverage inequality to succeed . A ruthless realist , Boss Xie 's approach to life begins to influence the boy 's mindset . Winner of the Best Narrative Feature prize at the Taipei Film Festival , Old Fox also took four Golden Horse awards . Taiwan has one Oscar , and another two nominations in this category -- all for films made by Ang Lee . <p> TAJIKISTANTitle : MelodyDirector : Behrouz Sebt RasoulProd : Dreamlab FilmsNotes : Tajikistan has chosen Sebt Rasoul 's drama Melody for a second time after it missed the deadline for getting all the required material to the Academy last year . Offering a rare cinematic vision of rural life in the mountainous landlocked country , the movie revolves around a music teacher music at a centre for children with cancer , whose students ask her to compose a piece using the sound of 30 birds , leading her to travel back to her home village to capture their birdsong . The films is Tajikistan 's third Oscar submission after Bakhtyar Khudojnazarov 's comedy-drama Luna Papa in 1999 and Iranian Mohsen Makhmalbaf 's romantic drama Sex &amp; Philosophy in 2005 , which was also disqualified after the print failed to arrive in time at the Academy . <p> THAILANDTitle : How To Make Millions Before Grandma DiesDirector : Pat BoonnitipatSales : Mokster Films.Notes : This pan-Asian box office sensation stars popular singer and actor Billkin ( Putthipong Assaratanakul ) as a young man who in with his terminally ill grandmother as carer in a ploy to win her inheritance . The film has grossed $50M worldwide since its release in April , as it stormed the box office at home and across Asia . It the most successful Thai film of all time in Singapore and Malaysia . In Indonesia , the film received more than 3.5 million admissions , surpassing Korean horror film Exhuma to become the all-time most successful Asian film in the country . The film was produced by burgeoning Thai Studio GDH 559 , a subsidiary of Thailand 's largest entertainment conglomerate GMM Grammy . The film has sold to 110 territories , with Netflix later picked up the film 's streaming rights for Southeast Asia . <p> TUNISIATitle:Take My BreathDirector : Nada Mezni HfaiedhSales : MAD SolutionsNotes : In an eleventh-hour submission on the eve of a key election in Tunisia , Nada Mezni Hfaiedh 's locally ground-breaking drama stars Amina Ben Ismail as a 23-year-old seamstress whose life is overturned when their intersex identity is exposed . Last year 's Tunisian entry , documentary Four Daughters by Kaouther Ben Hania , made it onto the shortlist for in the International Feature category and went on to be nominated in the Best Documentary category . Ben Hania scored Tunisia 's only other Oscar nomination to date for The Man Who Sold His Skin in the 93rd awards . <p> **25;1073;TOOLONG : Zeki DemirkubuzSales : Basak Emre PundursNotes : Hicran runs away from home when she is forced into an engagement with Riza by her father . Riza , who thinks that Hicran does n't want to be with him , does n't care at first . But when it begins to bother him , he decides to confront the situation and embarks on a long search for Hicran in Istanbul . This epic odyssey played Thessaloniki last year as well as having a berth at the Sofia International Film Festival . This is auteur Demirkubuz 's first time repping Turkey , only one film from the market has ever advanced to the shortlist . <p> UKTitle:SantoshDirector : Sandhya SuriSales : mk2 filmsNotes : In rural Northern India , newly widowed Santosh inherits her late husband 's job as a police constable and becomes embroiled in the investigation of a young girl 's murder . Santosh debuted in Cannes ' Un Certain Regard this year and will play the London Film Festival in October ; it won the award for Best International Debut at the Jerusalem fest . The UK does n't submit a film every year , but is coming off of its first win for last year 's The Zone of Interest . <p> UKRAINETitle:La PalisiadaDirector : Philip SotnichenkoSales : Reason8 FilmsNotes : Set in 1996 Ukraine , five months before the moratorium on the death penalty , two old friends -- a police detective and a forensic psychiatrist -- investigate the murder of their colleague . This debut feature marks Sotnychenko 's first time repping Ukraine , although the film has had myriad festival play including Rotterdam , Goteborg , San Sebastian , Sarajevo and more . Ukraine has advanced to the shortlist just once , for last year 's 20 Days in Mariupol . <p> URUGUAYTitle:There is a Door ThereDirectors : Juan Ponce de Leon &amp; Facundo Ponce de LeonSales : Mueca FilmsNotes : A documentary portrait of the birth of a friendship between two men , while one helps the other to die . The acceptance of pain , the sense of humor and the commitment to family and friends , accompany the virtual chats between Fernando and Eric , who were unable to meet due to the pandemic . The doc world premiered last year at the Malaga Film Festival , and played San Sebastian among others . It was nominated for the Best Documentary prize by Spain 's Cinema Writers Circle . Uruguay scored an Oscar nomination its first time out , with 1992 's A Place in the World . However , as it was an Argentine film over which Uruguay exercised insufficient artistic control , it was removed from the ballot . There have been no advancements to the shortlist since . <p> VENEZUELATitle:Children of Las BrisasDirector : Marianela MaldonadoU.S . Distributor : PBSNotes : An observational documentary exploring the power of discipline and classical music as tools for survival , the film follows three Venezuelan children from the impoverished Las Brisas neighborhood , in their quest to become professional musicians within the ranks of the " El Sistema " music program . Throughout a decade , Edixon , Dissandra and Wuilly try to achieve a better future as they face the great challenges of the country 's dire situation . Maldonado 's film premiered at the Sheffield Doc Fest in 2022 , then screened at NYC DOC among many other doc fests . Venezuela has advanced to the shortlist once , for 2014 's The Liberator , but has never scored a nomination . <p> VIETNAMTitle:Peach Blossom , Pho and PianoDirector : Phi Tien SonProd : Film No. 1 Joint Stock CompanyNotes : Vietnam 's turbulent post-colonial period has been retold in a myriad of films by non-Vietnamese directors , from Francis Ford Coppola 's Apocalypse Now to R ? gis Wargnier 's Indochine , France 's last winner in the International Film category in 1992 . This state-backed wartime romantic drama revisits the period of young Viet Minh independence fighters who meet and fall in love in the final days of the Battle of Hanoi . Initially releasing in theatres over the spring , the film is due to be re-shown again in the coming days to mark the 70th anniversary of the Liberation of Hanoi from the French ( aka the fall of Hanoi ) on October 10 , 1954. 
@@118615644 <p> The fall of Syria 's President Bahsar al-Assad is a blow to Russia , terror-monger Iran , and their Hezbollah cronies in Lebanon . But Syria 's next chapter is starting with uncertainty . President-elect Trump 's goal is restoring peace to the Middle East -- and the road now runs through Damascus . <p> " Not our fight , " Trump stated . Quite canny of him , for in 2019 , he wisely left outposts of about 900 U.S. forces both at An Tanf , a junction near Iraq 's border , and along the oil fields at Deir Al Zour , blocking a return of the defeated ISIS caliphate . <p> Fingers crossed that the end of Assad wo n't be the beginning of ISIS 2.0 . <p> Assad was terrible . Remember his use of chemical weapons against his own people ? In 2013 , the Assad regime launched rockets carrying the deadly nerve agent sarin into the Ghouta district of Damascus , killing more than 1,400 people , according to the U.S. Department of State , and used them again in 2017 . Trump ordered airstrikes on Syrian chemical weapons sites with U.S. B-1 bombers , along with France and Britain , in 2018 . <p> Abu Mohammed al-Golani checks the damage following an earthquake in the village of Besnaya in Syria 's northwestern Idlib province at the border with Turkey , on Feb. 7 , 2023 . ( Omar Haj Kadour/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> " There is not a single household in Syria that the war has not touched . Praise be to God , today Syria is recovering , " said Hayat Tahrir al-Sham leader Abu Mohammed al-Golani in his speech at the Umyyad mosque yesterday . <p> What remains to be seen is if these rebels -- who took just 11 days to depose Assad -- want to launch a recovery in Syria , or return to their al Qaeda roots . Syria 's economy is weak , unemployment is high and Syria is still coping with the 2023 earthquake that killed 5500 and affected many more . This could go either way . <p> Uncertain as the situation is , for now , the geopolitics are quite satisfying . Russia 's Vladimir Putin takes a big loss . He could n't keep his client Assad in power , and with Aleppo , Damascus and Homs in rebel hands , Russia 's air base at the international airport near Latakia and naval base on the Mediterranean coast at Tartus are more or less on lockdown . Syria was a major investment for Putin and , in a way , his training ground for Ukraine . With Assad gone , it 's all blown up . <p> As for the Iranians , they 've lost a member of their so-called axis of resistance . Their supply corridor into Hezbollah in Lebanon is now choked off . Syria was " a playground for Iran 's ambitions , " Golani said , but no more . A senior Iranian running terror militias was killed by HTS forces in Aleppo on Nov. 28 . Decimated by Israel and pinned down by U.S. deterrent forces , there was not much Iran could do for Assad . <p> The bad news ? Syria is now in the hands of a UN-designated terrorist group . Golani , age 42 , has been a slick operative for years , admiring the 9/11 attacks but carving out his own base in northern Syria after opting not to ally with various al Qaeda leaders . You get the feeling that Golani calculated he 'd do better on his own in Syria , instead of paying allegiance to some big-name al Qaeda outsider . It 's a little worrying that he calls himself " Golani " in reference to Israel 's takeover of the Golan Heights in 1967 , when his grandfather fled before Israel 's armies . <p> For now , much depends on how Golani handles his victorious forces . If prudent , he will keep them behaving as liberators . And he will stay away from the Golan Heights , newly reoccupied by Israel Defense Force troops . <p> Opposition fighters remove a government flag from an official building in Salamiyah , east of Hama , Syria , Saturday Dec. 7 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Ghaith Alsayed ) <p> Of course , the big concern is keeping a lid on ISIS . In the west , the Syrian Defense Forces , allied with the U.S. , are " sitting on top of a prison system with approximately 10,000 ISIS fighters incarcerated in it , " retired Gen. Frank McKenzie told ABC News on Mar. 31 . U.S. commanders have warned for years that the camps seethe with resentment . If released , the ISIS detainees and their kin could filter out to strengthen other ISIS groups , potentially increasing the risks of terror attacks in the U.S. and Europe -- a " whole new chapter of ISIS violence , " in McKenzie 's words . <p> My mind is on the U.S. forces in Syria . Although small , they are very capable forces , and closely monitored by U.S. Central Command airpower as part of the enduring " defeat ISIS " mission . U.S. Air Force A-10 Warthogs carried out a low " show of force " flight in Syria on Dec. 3 , to shoo enemies away , while others -- probably Special Forces -- were destroying mortars and armored personnel carriers after a rocket and mortar attack near Military Support Site Euphrates . All year , U.S. air forces have consistently launched airstrikes against both Iran-backed militia teams and at ISIS clusters in Syria . <p> Hopefully , the departure of Assad is a new beginning . But Syria has a long way to go , and Trump 's team just got yet another crisis to resolve . <p> The passion of U.S. presidents across party lines is peace in the Middle East . There has n't been a single one since Nixon who did n't strive to his utmost , from Carter 's Camp David Accords through Biden 's frantic attempts at a ceasefire in Gaza . Trump wants peace in the Middle East , too , but the difference is that , given his first term success with the Abraham Accords , he can get it . But that road now runs through Damascus . <h> Best of Opinion <p> Get the recap of top opinion commentary and original content throughout the week . <p> Arrives Twice a week <p> By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button , you agree to the Fox News Privacy Policy and Terms of Use , and agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News . You understand that you can opt-out at any time . 
@@118616645 <h> With Assad 's fall , Iran 's ' axis of resistance ' unravels <p> Over the past four decades , Iran devoted its best military minds , billions of dollars and sophisticated weapons to a grand project -- countering U.S. and Israeli power in the Middle East through what it called the " Axis of Resistance . " <p> The alliance , made up of like-minded armed groups or governments in five Middle Eastern countries , allowed Iran to project power as far west as the Mediterranean and south to the Arabian Sea . <p> But in a breathtakingly short time , it has largely unraveled . <p> Syrian rebel groups ousted the country 's longtime dictator , Bashar Assad , in less than two weeks as the government 's military forces put up little resistance . The Lebanese militant and political group Hezbollah and the Palestinian faction Hamas in the Gaza Strip are both weakened by more than a year of warfare with Israel . <p> Advertisement <p> Still intact are the Iran-linked Iraqi militias and the Houthis in Yemen , but they are geographically more peripheral to the conflict with Israel . So if Iran were intent on rebuilding its regional alliance , it would likely take years to return to its former strength . <p> " The most significant regional development is this Iranian strategic loss , " Robert Ford , a former U.S. ambassador to Syria and a senior fellow at the Middle East Institute , a Washington-based think tank , said of the collective defeats suffered by Iran 's allies . <p> Syria under Assad was critical to the alliance because it provided a land corridor for Iran to supply weapons and materiel to Hezbollah in Lebanon . Israel sought to sever this pipeline . Defending it was just as important to Iran . <p> With the ouster of Assad this weekend and the future leadership of Syria now in question , as well as the continued threat of Israel bombing any weapons headed for Lebanon , it appears unlikely that Iran can retain this strategic route . <p> A fire burned after explosions at a security compound that houses the Syrian Military Intelligence Interrogation Division on in Damascus.Getty Images/Getty <p> " The Iranians suffer a major strategic defeat if the Assad government is replaced by some other kind of government that takes an uncooperative attitude toward Lebanese Hezbollah because their land bridge to Lebanon is cut and it 's a big blow to any hope Iran may have had for a slow , steady rebuilding of Hezbollah , " Ford said Saturday , just before the Syrian capital , Damascus , fell to the rebels . <p> Advertisement <p> Iran had long propped up Assad , giving him military support to hold back opponents during the country 's 13-year civil war . But advisers and commanders of Iran 's powerful Revolutionary Guard , many of whom had also worked closely with Hezbollah , started leaving Syria on Friday . <p> Analysts said Iran realized it could not offer a military solution to Assad any longer , especially given that his own forces seemed reluctant to fight for him . <p> The Syrian rebels picked an opportune moment to launch their offensive , when Assad 's allies -- Iran , Russia and Hezbollah -- were either depleted or distracted with other conflicts . The rebel assault began Nov. 27 , just days after a cease-fire in the Israel-Hezbollah war forced Hezbollah to retreat from Lebanon 's border with Israel . <p> In some corners of Lebanon , there was an expectation that Iran would come to Hezbollah 's aid more forcefully during the war with Israel . <p> When Israel and Iran traded strikes in April and again in October , Israel , backed by the United States , shot down most of Iran 's missiles . Those that reached Israel did little damage but in its own attacks Israel was able to penetrate Iran 's air defenses with little resistance . <p> All told , these events demonstrated that Iran had limited ability to defend itself and its allies , shattering any notion in the eyes of Iran 's supporters that it was invincible . <p> Now Iran appears to be striking a somewhat more conciliatory tone , at least on Syria . Its Foreign Ministry said Sunday that the country 's future was " solely the responsibility " of Syrians and called for a national dialogue to form an " inclusive government , " according to Tasnim , a semiofficial news agency associated with Iran 's Revolutionary Guard . <p> But also this past week , international monitors at the U.N . atomic energy agency said that Iran had dramatically accelerated its enrichment of uranium to close to the level needed for use in a weapon . <p> Advertisement <p> The unraveling of Iran 's alliance accelerated dramatically over the past few months . <p> Hamas , which long ruled Gaza , has been degraded by more than a year of war set off by its Oct. 7 , 2023 attack on Israel . There is growing evidence that it is losing its grip on at least parts of the territory and is increasingly unable to govern . <p> At the end of July , Israel assassinated Hamas ' political leader , Ismail Haniyeh , while he was staying in a guesthouse in Tehran , Iran , under the eye of the Revolutionary Guard . He was there to attend the inauguration of Iran 's new president . <p> In mid-September , Israel crippled communications between Hezbollah leaders and commanders in the field by exploding their pagers and walkie-talkies . <p> At the end of September , Israel killed Hezbollah 's longtime leader , Hassan Nasrallah , whose charisma and skills as a military and political strategist helped him play a significant role in developing the Iranian regional alliance . <p> In October , Israel 's conflict with Hezbollah escalated rapidly . Israeli forces blew up much of the group 's sophisticated tunnel and bunker system in south Lebanon in barely six weeks of intense fighting , according to analysts . <p> Israel 's defense minister estimated that about 80% of Hezbollah 's 150,000 missiles and rockets were destroyed . It probably had the largest arsenal in the world in the hands of a nonstate armed group , according to weapons analysts . <p> The weakening of Hezbollah would resonate far beyond Lebanon . <p> The group had sent fighters to help Assad during the Syrian civil war and helped train other Iran-backed groups , including Houthi fighters from Yemen . <p> Advertisement <p> " Hezbollah had been considered a success story for Iran because of 2000 and 2006 , " said Hanin Ghader , a Lebanese analyst now at the Washington Institute , referring to the group 's previous wars with Israel . Hezbollah came out far less damaged after that conflict . <p> " Hassan Nasrallah proved himself to be the guru of the resistance for the Iranians , and they invested so much in him , " she said , adding that Hezbollah got far more Iranian support than the Houthis or Iraqi militias . <p> The broader impact of Israel 's onslaught on Hezbollah , which apparently forced the group to call many of its fighters home from Syria , according to diplomats and analysts , was to hollow out Assad 's defenses . <p> Syria was Iran 's closest state ally in the Middle East . Assad had come to rely on Iranian commanders and units under the control of the Revolutionary Guard and Hezbollah fighters -- whose support helped him survive more than a decade of civil war , until this weekend . <p> But for the past several years , while the conflict in Syria was seemingly frozen , opposition forces were quietly preparing a new challenge to Assad . When they chose to strike again , Assad 's regime turned out to be a paper tiger . <p> In addition to Iranian and Hezbollah forces , his government had depended on Russian support , primarily its air force , but Moscow had moved much of its air assets to the fight in Ukraine . His own military forces turned out to have had little inclination to fight anymore . <p> Despite this accretion of losses , for many years the alliance has served its purpose in Iran 's view , said Hassan Ahmadian , a political science professor at Tehran University . Iranians believed it would be a deterrent to Israel , not an impregnable defense , he said . <p> Advertisement <p> Iran , he said , has always recognized that it was in an asymmetric fight with Israel , which has a nuclear arsenal and is backed by sophisticated U.S. arms and staunch American political support . <p> " The Iranians do n't have either one . But the strategy was to balance those capabilities -- nuclear weapons and U.S. backing -- with an alliance of like-minded armed groups and governments , " he said . <p> Although Israel is widely believed to have nuclear weapons , it has never officially confirmed it . <p> Longtime observers of Iran warn against counting it out just yet . <p> " Clearly , Hezbollah has been badly weakened and Iran clearly emerged as the weaker power in its direct confrontation with Israel , " said Ryan Crocker , a former U.S. ambassador to Lebanon , Syria and Iraq . " But you know , tactical and operational success do n't necessarily translate into strategic victory . " <p> Hezbollah has not been completely defeated , he cautioned . And Iran is not likely to retreat behind its own borders just yet . <p> " I do n't think either Iran or Hezbollah see themselves as defeated here , " he said . " And one thing that Iran has shown is that they have the capacity to play a long game . " 
@@118616940 <p> Iran claims to have completed a successful space launch , with the rocket carrying with it satellite equipment as well as a military payload . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Iran said on Friday that it has successfully conducted a space launch with its heaviest payload ever , the latest development in a programme the West alleges improves Tehran 's ballistic missile program . <p> Iran maintains its programme is peaceful , however government officials in the Islamic Republic have been threatening to potentially develop a nuclear bomb as well as an intercontinental ballistic missile . This would allow Itan to use the weapon against distant countries , for example in Europe and the United States . <p> Friday 's launch took place at Iran 's Imam Khomeini Spaceport in rural Semnan province , 220 km east of the capital Tehran . Iran 's civilian space programme is being developed in the area , where it has repeatedly failed to launch Simorgh launches in the past . <p> Iran claims the Simorgh rocket carried an " orbital propulsion system " , in addition to two research systems in a 400km orbit above the Earth . Tehran has long sought to develop a system that can change the orbit of a spacecraft , which would then allow it to geo-synchronise the orbits of its satellites . <h> Satellite named after assassinated scientist <p> The rocket also carried the Fakhr-1 satellite , which is named after top Iranian nuclear scientist Mohsen Fakhrizadeh who was assassinated inside Iran , reportedly by Israel . It is the first time Iran 's civilian programme is known to have carried a military payload , which at 300 kg was heavier than all previous successful launches in the country . <p> Nevetheless , it has not independently been confirmed whether the launch was successful . <p> The launch comes at the same time as severe instability reins in the Middle East , with an ongoing conflict in Syria and Israel 's lengthy war on Hamas in the Gaza Strip , in addition to the fragile ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah in Lebanon . <p> The US has in the past told Iran to refrain from any actions that involve ballistic missiles capable of delivering nuclear weapons , and has said its satellite launches defy a UN Security Council resolution . <p> Previous UN sanctions against Iran due to its missile programme expired in October 2023 . <h> Nuclear-capable ballistic weapons <p> Iran 's recently instated reformist president , Masoud Pezeshkian , has indicated he wants to negotiate the sanctions applied by the West , but has yet to offer a concrete idea of Iran 's ambitions in space . <p> The Simorgh launch was the first conducted by his administration for the country 's civil space programme , while its paramilitary Revolutionary Guard conducted a successful launch of its own in September . <p> Since the collapse in talks between Iran and western powers regarding its nuclear programme , Iran has come close to the production of uranium close to weapons-grade levels . Intercontinental ballistic missiles , meanwhile , can be used to transports nuclear weapons . <p> Tehran has enough enriched uranium for " several " nuclear weapons , if it chooses to produce them , the head of the International Atomic Energy Agency repeatedly has warned . <p> The country 's government , however , has always insisted that both its space programme and nuclear activities are entirely for civilian purposes . This is despite US intelligence agencies and the IAEA claiming that Iran had an organised military nuclear programme until 2023. 
@@118617248 <p> Her tenure began after Sen. Dianne Feinstein 's death last year and ended with the defeat of Vice President Kamala Harris , a longtime friend . <p> WASHINGTON -- Earlier this year , as Republicans sought to ban books with Black history and LGBTQ+ themes from schools across the country , the nation 's first openly gay Black senator stepped onto the Senate floor and read aloud from some of them . <p> " Perhaps for some of you here today , I am the face of one of your fears , " Democratic Sen. Laphonza Butler said in February , quoting 20th century poet Audre Lorde . " Because I am a Black woman , because I am a lesbian , because I am myself -- a Black woman warrior poet doing work -- who has come to ask you , are you doing yours ? " <p> At the time , Butler was just a few months into her tenure as California 's junior senator , a 14-month stretch that began when she was appointed shortly after Sen. Dianne Feinstein died in 2023 , and that ends Monday when Rep. Adam B. Schiff ( D-Burbank ) is sworn in to take her place . <p> After being appointed to fill the late Sen. Dianne Feinstein 's seat , Laphonza Butler served for 13 months . Her next goal is getting up to speed on her daughter 's new hobby : competitive cheerleading . <p> Nov. 17 , 2024 <p> The reading was part of Butler 's broader effort to put into the public record literature that 's becoming harder to access in conservative states . But it was also an expression of the identity that helped catapult her into the Senate after Gov . Gavin Newsom said in 2021 that he would appoint a Black woman to Feinstein 's seat should it ever become vacant . <p> As Butler -- the third Black woman to serve in the Senate -- leaves public office , the identity politics that were central to her rise are now under scrutiny by Democrats , who are working to understand their devastating losses in this year 's election . After a campaign in which Republicans ridiculed Vice President Kamala Harris as a " DEI hire " -- a reference to diversity , equity and inclusion that suggested she was on the Democratic ticket due to her race and gender , former President Trump won in part because he gained support among Black and Latino voters . <p> " That 's the one thing she ca n't choose , is that she is a Black woman , " Butler said , reflecting on Harris ' loss in an interview with The Times . She said chalking up the loss to only race and gender would be " intellectually dishonest , " but maintained that " those barriers , those challenges , those stereotypes and mindsets -- they still persist , as much as we hope they do n't . " <p> Advertisement <p> Butler 's wife , Neneki Lee , holds the Bible as Vice President Kamala Harris swears in California 's junior U.S. senator in October 2023 . <p> ( Stephanie Scarbrough / Associated Press ) <p> Butler began her time as a senator focused on youth development , voting rights and reproductive health , and spent the last few months trying to help Harris win the presidency . <p> The bond between the two dates back nearly 15 years , to when Harris was running for California attorney general and sought support from Butler , then the leader of Los Angeles ' service workers ' union . When Harris entered the 2020 Democratic presidential primary race , Butler became a top policy advisor to her campaign . <p> Advertisement <p> And when Harris stepped up as the Democratic presidential nominee this year , Butler again joined the team that was hoping to see her succeed . In numerous TV appearances , Butler defended Harris when pressed about her changing positions on issues such as unauthorized border crossings , when asked to comment on Trump 's personal attacks on Harris ' appearance , and when prompted for reasons to support the vice president 's bid for the White House . <p> " We both graduated from historically Black colleges . ... We were both raised by mothers who worked fiercely to provide for us , and we both believe that every single one of us has the power to change the world when we choose to do it together , " Butler said . <p> Sen. Laphonza Butler discusses America 's challenges and the next presidential election , the war in Gaza and what she hopes to accomplish in office . <p> Jan. 18 , 2024 <p> Before joining the Senate , Butler was a political operative known for her effective behind-the-scenes organizing . She served as president of EMILYs List , an organization that works to elect Democratic women who support abortion rights ; was a partner at the powerful political consulting firm that has represented Harris and Newsom ; and spent years as the head of Service Employees International Union Local 15 , which represents caregivers and others in the service industry in California . <p> Gov . Gavin Newsom , with Butler at an L.A. school event after her swearing-in , stirred controversy when he appointed her to the late Sen. Dianne Feinstein 's seat in 2023 . <p> ( Mel Melcon / Los Angeles Times ) <p> While historic , her appointment also drew some criticism . Republicans took issue with Newsom choosing someone who was n't living in California -- Butler is a longtime California homeowner but had moved with her wife and daughter to Maryland while running EMILYs List . <p> Advertisement <p> Some Democrats were dismayed that Newsom did not choose Rep. Barbara Lee ( D-Oakland ) , who was actively running for Senate at the time Feinstein died . Lee 's supporters saw her as the most-qualified candidate due to her decades of experience in Congress . In a letter urging Newsom to pick Lee , the Congressional Black Caucus said that " she is the only person with the courage , the vision , and the record to eradicate poverty , face down the fossil fuel industry , defend our democracy , and tirelessly advance the progressive agenda . " <p> Newsom said he did n't want to tip the scales in the competitive primary for Feinstein 's seat . But James Taylor , a professor of political science and African American studies at the University of San Francisco , said Newsom 's choice may have been driven by conflict among California Democrats over voters seeing them as too liberal . Lee has been outspoken in condemning Israel for the war in the Gaza Strip , for example . <p> " Butler allowed herself to be used , " Taylor said . " If Gavin Newsom wanted to honor Black California women , he should 've appointed Lee or Los Angeles Rep. Maxine Waters . He went out of his way to not give Lee that honor . " <p> Congress , and particularly the Senate , is known to move slowly . Partisanship can take over and compromise can require repeated conversations to reach . It 's especially hard for a short-timer with no seniority . <p> Sen. Alex Padilla , Butler 's closest colleague as California 's senior senator , said he expects that they will continue to collaborate no matter what she does next . While the two California senators mostly agreed , they split on at least one high-profile issue : a bipartisan border security bill that failed early this year at Trump 's urging . <p> Laphonza Butler , Gov . Gavin Newsom 's appointee to the U.S. Senate , says she wants to carry the baton of Sen. Dianne Feinstein . <p> Oct. 3 , 2023 <p> Most Democrats , including Butler , initially voted in favor of the bill , which included significant provisions to tighten border security but no pathway to citizenship for immigrants in the country illegally . Padilla urged his fellow senators to vote against it because it failed to provide solutions for undocumented immigrants . <p> One of their final acts as colleagues on the Senate Judiciary Committee was securing the confirmation of Judge Anne Hwang to the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California -- making her the first Korean American to serve as a federal judge in that district . <p> Padilla recalled calling or texting Butler daily when she first joined the Senate . <p> " She made me laugh a couple months in when I stopped checking in as frequently , " he said . " She asked me , ' What happened to my morning texts ? ' I said , ' You 're doing more than fine . The training wheels have come off . It 's time for you to ride . ' " <p> Butler said being a senator felt much like being an organizer -- it was about forming tactical and strategic relationships , and finding common ground . She took her activist roots , where her job was " to push and challenge and make something happen , " to a body that she said " does today exactly what it was designed to do 248 years ago -- nothing fast . " <p> She said she focused on working with colleagues across the aisle for legislative victories despite her personal opposition to their political perspectives . <p> Advertisement <p> Butler with state party Chair Rusty Hicks during a gathering of California 's delegation to the Democratic National Convention in Chicago this summer . <p> ( Myung J. Chun / Los Angeles Times ) <p> " I 'm not there to get married . We 're not even dating , " Butler said . " This is a transaction , and no one should think anything different than that . " <p> She said she secured the vote of Sen. Susan Collins ( R-Maine ) for one of the judges she wanted to see confirmed . She and Sen. Charles E. Grassley ( R-Iowa ) introduced legislation aimed at preventing youth opioid use and overdoses . And she introduced a bill with Sen. Katie Britt ( R-Ala. ) to fund maternal mortality research , money she hoped to secure this month through the National Defense Authorization Act . <p> " That kind of approach to problem-solving is something that we could all learn from , " Sen. Tina Smith ( D-Minn. ) said Thursday on the Senate floor . <p> " I 've watched you in the short time that you 've been in the Senate -- only 14 months -- which , in the life of many senators , is barely a blink of an eye , " Smith said in comments directed at Butler . " And I 've watched you figure out how to organize in this chamber for the good of the people that you represent . " <p> For her part , Butler has shot down any notion of further public office . She said she did n't fall in love with the process of being a legislator or the trappings of believing she was some kind of celebrity . <p> Advertisement <p> Even so , she she beamed with pride as she took to the Senate floor on Thursday , not to read a banned book but to bid farewell with a speech that invoked the first and second Black female senators who preceded her in office . <p> " It 's been a remarkable honor -- a completely unimagined adventure to follow in the footsteps of Dianne Feinstein , who so ably served in this chamber for more than 30 years , and to be blessed to walk the same hallways as Sen. Carol Moseley Braun and share the same office space as Vice President Kamala Harris , " Butler said in her final remarks from the floor . " I can only hope that for the people of California ... I was able to do half as well as those who came before me . " <p> Andrea Castillo covers immigration . Before joining the Los Angeles Times , she covered immigrant , ethnic and LGBTQ+ communities for the Fresno Bee . She got her start at the Oregonian in Portland . A native of Seattle , she 's been making her way down the West Coast since her graduation from Washington State University . <p> Seema Mehta is a veteran political writer who is covering the 2024 presidential race as well as other state and national contests . She started at the Los Angeles Times in 1998 , previously covered multiple presidential , state and local races , and completed a Knight-Wallace fellowship at the University of Michigan in 2019. 
@@118625040 <h> Grapevine December 8 , 2024 : A suitable match <h> Movers and shakers in Israeli society . <p> AGRICULTURE MINISTER Avi Dichter and Pannabha Chandraramya , the ambassador of Thailand to Israel , raise a toast to the leaders and people of their two countries . ( photo credit : Courtesy Royal Thai Embassy ) <h> No one better <p> ? NO MINISTER could have been more suitable to represent the Israel government at the reception hosted by Thailand 's Ambassador Pannabha Chandraramya in celebration of her country 's national day than Agriculture Minister Avi Dichter , given that the overwhelming majority of Thai workers in Israel work in agriculture . <p> Thai ambassadors usually serve in Israel for two or three years . Chandraramya is a rare exception , in that , when she concludes her term here in February 2024 , she will have served just over five years . Part of the reason is that Thai workers were among the victims and hostages of Hamas . Eight are still in Gaza , two of them unfortunately dead . One of the other reasons is her greatly appreciated work in strengthening relations in all spheres between Thailand and Israel where she has developed many friends as seen by the fond attention she received at the reception , held at the Israel Air Force Center in Herzliya . <p> Thai citizens are extremely patriotic and the ambassador and Embassy staff were all attired in colorful national costumes made from Thai silk -- mostly in lilac or bright yellow . In addition , they still revere their late king , Bhumibol Adulyadej , who was committed to the welfare of the Thai people and worked arduously to improve the quality of life of all his citizens . His son , King Maha Vajirlongkorn is following in his footsteps , said the ambassador . Large portraits of both monarchs were featured on stage , with yellow roses beneath each portrait . <p> Israel and Thailand have had official relations since 1954 , which makes 2024 a significant anniversary year . In addition , December 5 is both the national day of the Kingdom of Thailand and the anniversary of the birth of king Bhumibol , in front of whose portrait the ambassador bowed before delivering her speech . It 's also Father 's Day in Thailand , she said.Ms . Pannabha Chandraramya , Ambassador of Thailand to Israel ( credit : ASSAF LEV ) <p> Speaking of the strong bonds between Thailand and Israel , Chandraramya cited the visit to Thailand by a delegation of Israeli start-ups . Thailand has been the destination of choice for 450,000 Israelis during the past year . There are also ongoing people-to-people contacts through the 30,000 Thai workers in Israel who contribute to the country 's agricultural output and its economy . Chandraramya also underscored that Thailand and Israel have a strong and lasting partnership . <p> Dichter referred to the 70th anniversary of diplomatic ties in honor of which 70 trees had been planted in the Ben Shemen Forest as a symbol of lasting partnership . <p> Israel can not ignore the fact that Thais were among the victims in the Hamas massacre , he noted , emphasizing " We have a responsibility to the 41 Thai citizens brutally murdered . " The tragedy was not confined to Gaza , he said , but was continuing in the North . <p> To illustrate the strong link between Thailand and Israel , Dichter related that many of the Thai workers had wanted to go home and visit their families after surviving October 7 . He had gone to wish them well on the day before they left Israel , and one had asked him whether he could come back in a few months . Dichter had replied in the affirmative and then asked how many others wanted to come back , and all raised their hands . <h> Possible truce ? <p> ? IS A truce between Russia and Ukraine in the offing ? That would certainly be a reason for the good spirits of Russian Ambassador Anatoly Viktorov , warmly greeted by many of the guests attending the Thai National Day reception . For much of the period of the war between Russia and Ukraine , Viktorov has walked around with a stern expression on his face , and some people have taken care to avoid him , whereas previously they had basked in his company . However , it appears that relations are getting back to what they were . <p> Viktorov shared the information that at age 60 , he had decided to learn Hebrew . He said that he was not yet fluent , but when he trotted out a few words , his Hebrew was devoid of a Russian accent . <p> When Viktorov and his wife were chatting to Yitzhak Eldan , a former Chief of State Protocol , founding president of the Ambassadors ' Club of Israel , and who recently completed writing his memoirs . They discussed former Russian ambassadors , and Eldan -- who keeps track of the photos stored in his phone -- showed Viktorov a photograph of himself with former Russian ambassador Gennady Tarasov , for whom Viktorov has great admiration . <p> As for Alexandr Bovin the Russian Federation 's first ambassador to Israel following the resumption of diplomatic relations which had been severed following the Six Day War , Viktorov said that it was Bovin who had inspired him to become a diplomat . Bovin had arrived in Israel as the ambassador of the Soviet Union and the following day , he became the first ambassador of the Russian Federation . Even under the previous regime with which Bovin , a journalist and political scientist by profession , did not see eye-to-eye , he was not afraid to air his views , nor was he prevented from doing so , Viktorov recalled . <p> ? THE OFFICIAL opening last week at the National Library of the exhibition " Kafka . Metamorphosis of An Author " featured chocolates in the shape of Kafka 's unfortunate antihero , Gregor Samsa . <p> Guests included Swiss Ambassador Simon Geissb ? hler ; Swiss Cultural Attach ? Yael Wyler ; German Cultural Attach ? Christine Ringer , Czech Centre Tel Aviv director Lukas Pribyl ; and Lara Stock , director of the Austrian Cultural Forum Tel Aviv , which also supported the event . On hand were cartoonist-illustrator Michel Kichka , who created new images of Kafka for the exhibit , and Israel Prize laureate Hadas Ophrat , who designed the space . <p> The evening 's program began with a performance by the Ruth Kanner Theater Group with texts based on the notebooks of Kafka 's Hebrew studies , followed by remarks by the library 's head of Cultural Programming Tsila Hayun , CEO Oren Weinberg , and Dr. Stefan Litt , Humanities curator , Kafka expert , and exhibition co-curator . <p> The many donors who contributed to the success of the exhibition were publicly thanked . <p> More than 80 rare original items , many never before presented for public view , can now be seen . 
@@118632147 <h> Follow Us <h> Russian State media report Syria 's Assad fled to Moscow <p> A woman waves a Syrian opposition flag as she celebrates at Umayyad Square in Damascus , Dec. 8 , 2024 . <p> Share <p> Russian State media report Syria 's Assad fled to Moscow <p> share <p> Russian news reports say that ousted Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and his family arrived in Moscow Sunday , after a stunning rebel advance through Syria forced him flee . <p> The Russian media reports said the Assad family was granted asylum . Russia has been a close ally of Assad . <p> Earlier , joyful crowds jammed into the capital city 's squares , waving the three-starred Syrian revolutionary flag reminiscent of the earliest days of the Arab Spring uprising , before Assad 's brutal crackdown and the rise of an insurgency plunged the country into a nearly 14-year civil war . Some Syrians prayed in mosques . <p> Rebel forces opened the cell doors of the country 's prisons , freeing political prisoners and criminals Assad had jailed and tortured . Others rampaged through the presidential palace and the Assad family residence after the deposed strongman and other top officials fled the country . <p> The downfall of Assad was stunningly quick , with the rebels capturing the cities of Aleppo , Hama and Homs in a matter of days as the Syrian army ended any opposition . The rebels are led by the Hayat Tahrir al-Sham group ( HTS ) which has its origins in al-Qaida and is considered a terrorist organization by the United States and the United Nations . <p> Some celebrants tore down and ripped apart Assad portraits in the palace , while others walked out carrying dinnerware , chairs , furniture and any palatial belongings they were claiming as keepsakes of the overthrow of the government . <p> Some celebrants could be seen on video footage torching pictures of Assad plastered prominently on Damascus buildings while people in the streets nonchalantly walked across posters bearing his likeness . <p> In the streets , people chanted " God is great " and anti-Assad slogans . Some honked car horns . Teen boys picked up weapons that had apparently been discarded by security forces and fired them in the air . <p> Photo Gallery : <h> Syrians celebrate Bashar Assad 's fall <p> Syrians have poured into streets echoing with celebratory gunfire after a stunning rebel advance reached the capital . It put an end to the Assad family 's 50 years of iron rule . <p> The last Assad years , since 2011 , were marked by a bitter and bloody civil war in which more than half a million Syrians died and at least half the country 's pre-war population of 22 million was displaced . <p> Now , the immediate fate of Syria is uncertain . Assad 's overthrow is a major blow to Iran , a key supporter of his , and its allies in the Mideast , who have focused their attention on more than a year of conflict with Israel . Hezbollah militants only recently reaching a ceasefire with Israel in Lebanon while the war between Iran-funded Hamas and Israel rages on in Gaza . <p> Abu Mohammed al-Golani leads HTS and could chart the country 's immediate direction . He is a former al-Qaida commander who cut ties with the group years ago and says he embraces pluralism and religious tolerance . <p> But there are bitter divides in the country . Turkey-backed opposition fighters are battling U.S.-allied Kurdish forces in the north , and the Islamic State group is still active in some remote areas . <p> A group of rebels aired a video statement on Syrian state television saying the " criminal regime has fallen " and that all prisoners had been freed . They called on people to preserve the institutions of " the free Syrian state . " The rebels later announced a curfew in Damascus from 4 p.m. to 5 a.m . <p> One video circulating online purported to show rebels breaking open cell doors and freeing dozens of female prisoners , many of whom appeared shocked and confused . At least one small child could be seen among them . <p> Rebel commander Anas Salkhadi , who appeared on state TV later in the day , sought to reassure Syria 's religious and ethnic minorities , saying : " Syria is for everyone , no exceptions . Syria is for Druze , Sunnis , Alawites , and all sects . " <p> " We will not deal with people the way the Assad family did , " he added . <p> One Syrian , Mohammed Amer Al-Oulabi , 44 , who works in the electricity sector , said , " I did not sleep last night , and I refused to sleep until I heard the news of his fall . From Idlib to Damascus , it only took them the opposition forces a few days , thank God . May God bless them , the heroic lions who made us proud . " <p> Syria 's Al-Watan newspaper , which was historically pro-government , wrote : " We are facing a new page for Syria . We thank God for not shedding more blood . We believe and trust that Syria will be for all Syrians . " <p> The newspaper said that media workers should not be blamed for publishing government statements in the past , saying : " We only carried out the instructions and published the news they sent us . " <p> The Alawite sect -- to which Assad belongs , and which has formed the core of his base -- called on young Syrians to be " calm , rational and prudent and not to be dragged into what tears apart the unity of our country . " <p> The rebels mostly are part of the Sunni Muslim majority in Syria , which also has sizable Druze , Christian and Kurdish communities . <p> Assad was accused of war crimes and crimes against humanity during the country 's civil war , including a 2013 chemical weapons attack on the outskirts of Damascus . There was no immediate comment from Iran , which had been Assad 's staunchest supporter . The Iranian Embassy in Damascus was ransacked after apparently having been abandoned . <p> This aerial picture shows a bullet-riddled portrait of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad adorning Hama 's municipality building after it was defaced following the capture of the city by anti government fighters , Dec. 6 , 2024 . <p> The U.N . ' s special envoy for Syria , Geir Pedersen , called Saturday for urgent talks in Geneva to ensure an " orderly political transition . " <p> The Gulf nation of Qatar , a key regional mediator , hosted an emergency meeting of foreign ministers and top officials from eight countries with interests in Syria late Saturday . The participants included Iran , Saudi Arabia , Russia and Turkey . <p> Majed bin Mohammed al-Ansari , Qatar 's Foreign Ministry spokesperson , told reporters that they agreed on the need " to engage all parties on the ground , " including HTS , and that the main concern is " stability and safe transition . " <p> The Israeli military said Sunday it has deployed forces in a demilitarized buffer zone along its northern frontier with Syria following the rebel offensive there . <p> The military said the deployment was meant to provide security for residents of the Israeli-annexed Golan Heights . Israel captured the territory in the 1967 Mideast war and the international community , except for the United States , views it as Israeli-occupied . <p> VOA 's Edward Yeranian contributed to this report . Some information came from The Associated Press . <p> The Voice of America provides news and information in more than 40 languages to an estimated weekly audience of over 326 million people . Stories with the VOA News byline are the work of multiple VOA journalists and may contain information from wire service reports . 
@@118651758 <p> We hear of all the Texas women dying during pregnancy because it is illegal to give them the care they need . This issue is close to us because our granddaughter was pregnant with her first child and experienced a terrible natural abortion . She had to have a D&amp;C to remove the placenta to save her life . Fortunately , she lives in Minnesota where an excellent OB-GYN was there for her , and she had the courage to try again and she is now in her 24th week with our new great-granddaughter . <p> The Constitution was amended to allow citizens the right to bear arms , so why ca n't it also include the right of a physician to follow the Hippocratic oath they took to practice medicine ? It seems to me that that would be more palatable to anti-abortion zealots on the far right and slow down the exodus from states that make it illegal to practice medicine . It might be more bipartisan than making abortions legal . <p> Don Wenner , Bloomington <h> CARGILL LAYOFFS <h> Merry Christmas , I guess <p> Way to go , Cargill ! Let 's make the holidays merry and bright while upholding your core values of putting your employees first ( " Cargill to lay off 5% of global workforce , " Dec. 4 ) . You could n't have waited until the first of the year to announce layoffs ? <p> Mary Leizinger , Victoria <p> *** <p> Cargill 's decision to lay off 8,000 employees globally , or 5% of its workforce , should raise significant concerns about corporate priorities and the effects these spending cuts have on the working class . Although Cargill is facing challenges due to a decline in commodity prices and reduced profits , the company 's drastic decision to restructure reflects a deeper issue : corporations prioritizing profit margins over the well-being of their employees . <p> CEO Brian Sikes ' statement about realigning talent and resources to boost competitiveness is understandable from a business standpoint . However , Sikes stating " We will lean on our core value of putting people first as we support our colleagues during this transition , " feels hollow when thousands are being laid off with very minimal notice . It is especially troubling given the high profits Cargill reaped just two years ago during a financial boom from the pandemic . This year , Cargill 's profits dropped by 36% to $2.5 billion , which is still significant profit . This indicates that the company 's plan of immediate restructuring is not a result of an urgent crisis , but rather an inhumane response to shifting long-term projections in hopes of maximizing profitability . <p> Cargill 's decisions will have immediate consequences for employees , but they may also severely impact the company itself . A 2021 Jobvite survey found that 70% of job seekers prioritize company culture and values , which could make it harder for Cargill to attract top talent in the future . As companies pursue growth , they must remember that their workforce is their most valuable asset . <p> All this for a protest where no one was threatened and no one harmed . I believe the penalties are punitive in character , part of a broader effort by universities to clamp down on pro-Palestinian protests on campuses . The 7-5 vote in favor of the resolution was not surprising . What took me aback was the language used by Council Members Linea Palmisano and Andrea Jenkins . They claimed that the students who occupied Halimy/Morrill Hall had taken hostages or were holding people in the building hostage . <p> First off , it 's untrue -- the students had directed anyone in the building who wanted to leave to a door through which they could exit . There is video evidence supporting this . The bigger concern is the inflammatory nature of that language , because it implicitly but clearly draws a parallel to the actions of Hamas . They are essentially equating these students to Hamas . This is the language of demagoguery . <p> In this example it is being used to justify disproportionate consequences . But it is a very dangerous precedent because it also lays the groundwork for even harsher forms of repression in the days to come . <p> Bob Goonin , Minneapolis <p> *** <p> Where are the letters to the editor decrying the immoral ongoing killing of civilians in Gaza by Israel ( " Strikes on Gaza tent camp kill 21 , " Dec. 5 ) ? Yes , many civilians in Sudan are also being killed in their protracted civil war . The difference is we , American taxpayers , are not funding those killings ( as far as I know ) . Israel has the right to defend itself , but what we 're seeing is not defense but retribution on an Old Testament biblical scale . They 've already killed 40 people , mostly women and children , for each person killed in the Hamas attack on Israel more than a year ago . Their stated policy now is to eliminate every real and potential member of Hamas . There is no way for them to do that unless they intend to kill every single person in Gaza . They 've already reduced the entire area to rubble and are pursuing a policy of starvation of the remaining population . It 's profoundly sad , and likely another symptom of the degradation of American society , that most of us avert our eyes instead of demanding the cessation of military funding to Israel . <p> Valerie Nebel , St. Paul <h> PUBLIC HEALTH <h> Protect our children , seniors <p> Romans as early as the 2nd century BCE were aware of the toxic effects of lead . Fast forward a few thousand years and it 's being reported that Minnesota homeowners are discovering they have lead pipes and there may be health risks ( " Minnesota homeowners are discovering they have lead pipes . Here 's what they can do . " StarTribune.com , Dec. 4 ) . In fact , the CDC 's position is there is no safe level of lead exposure . While lead poisoning wreaks havoc on the neurodevelopment of children , its effects on seniors should not be overlooked . Lead stored in bones can resurface and pose health risks , especially in the elderly . Science shows us that lead exposure is linked to high blood pressure , cardiovascular problems and kidney damage resulting from its storage in bones being leached back into the bloodstream . <p> Kevin McDonald , Minneapolis <p> The writer is a supervisor with the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency . <p> *** <p> I appreciated the article " Low vaccine rates cause for alarm " ( front page , Nov. 29 ) because I do n't know that everyone understands the potential threat this is to community health . As the parent of children who had to stay home during the COVID-19 pandemic , I am concerned that if not enough children are vaccinated we could have another outbreak . This summer there was also a measles outbreak in the Twin Cities . <p> Some children have allergies or medical conditions that prevent them from getting shots . When others pass them over for nonmedical reasons they put their peers at risk . If you have questions about vaccines , do not trust random websites or social media . Reach out to a doctor . Ask them to explain the safety and effectiveness for your children and about the role that their vaccination can play in protecting the health of others . <p> Matt Flory , St. Louis Park <h> AIRLINE WOES <h> Up , up and away <p> The article on Sun Country Airlines and its success and profitability as a Minnesota company is admirable ( " Airline 's business model soaring , " Nov. 27 ) . I can see why they are profitable after booking a flight . The initial airfare was reasonable . But then come the add-ons : $17 to $30 for picking your seat , $50 to $60 per bag -- and those fees are doubled for round-trip fares . So a $200 round trip ticket , actually , can add up to a $360 round-trip ticket . Thanks for the hidden costs after buying the initial ticket . 
@@118651844 <h> From Trump and Turkey , to Russia and Iran -- Syria 's regime change has huge global consequences <p> The dramatic toppling of the Syrian regime at the hands of rebel forces this weekend could have deep ramifications not only for the Middle Eastern country , but on global geopolitics and markets too , according to analysts . <p> After a lightning-fast offensive over the past fortnight that saw opposition groups move across the country , seizing key cities along the war , rebels led by the Islamist militant group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham . <p> The group finally seized the capital Damascus at the weekend , prompting President Bashar al-Assad to flee the country and to reportedly to take refuge in Russia , where he has been granted asylum . <p> TOPSHOT - This aerial picture shows a bullet-riddled portrait of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad adorning Hama 's municipality building after it was defaced following the capture of the city by anti government fighters , on December 6 , 2024 . <p> Omar Haj Kadour Afp Getty Images <p> The dramatic toppling of Bashar al-Assad 's Syrian regime at the hands of rebel forces this weekend could have far-reaching consequences for the Middle Eastern country , global alliances and markets , according to analysts . <p> Over the past fortnight , rebel forces led by the Islamist militant group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham carried out a lightning-fast offensive across the country , seizing key cities along the way . The faction finally claimed the capital Damascus at the weekend , prompting President Bashar al-Assad to flee the country and seek refuge in Russia , according to Russian state media reports . <p> The overthrow of Assad was greeted cautiously by Western nations who are wary of the potential for further bloodshed and of a power vacuum in Syria , if a chaotic and contested transition of leadership takes place . <p> A country riven with 13 years of brutal civil war Syria has seen competing factions -- including the terrorist group that styles itself the Islamic State -- fight each other as well as Assad 's force in recent years , raising the potential for rival power grabs . <p> For now , however , the fall of the Assad dynasty after over 50 years in power has more immediate global ramifications , with Russia and Iran seen as " losers " from the ousting of the Syrian dictator , while the U.S. , Turkey and Israel are viewed among the main beneficiaries from regime change . <p> An anti-government fighter holds a weapon as he keeps position near a defaced portrait of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad , in the city of Hama after forces captured the central Syrian city , on December 6 , 2024 . <p> Omar Haj Kadour Afp Getty Images <p> " The rapid collapse of the Assad regime in Damascus will have repercussions well beyond Syria . The great losers are Iran and Russia , without whose support Assad would have lost the almost 14-year civil war long ago , " Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Berenberg Bank , said in analysis Monday . <p> " Iran has likely lost its major route to send weapons to the Hezbollah terror militia in Lebanon . Despite a potential power vacuum in parts of Syria for a while , the Middle East could eventually be a little less unstable as a result , " Schmieding said in emailed comments . <h> U.S. , Europe emboldened <p> Starting with the U.S. , economists point out that the fall of Assad , and the accompanying weakening of Russia and Iran after the loss of a key ally in the region , will give U.S. President-elect Donald Trump and Western powers a welcome boost . <p> " The new reality is when Donald Trump assumes office on January 20th 2025 he will be facing a threat board where the opposition looks massively weakened , and how the U.S. holds many of the cards , " market strategist Bill Blain said in emailed comments Monday . <p> " That does n't mean the world is much less dangerous -- it 's entirely unclear what kind of new Syria might emerge from Assad 's overthrow -- but it feels like power and the global initiative could be shifting back to the West , " he added . <p> France 's President Emmanuel Macron ( C ) walks with U.S. President-elect Donald Trump ( R ) and Ukraine 's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy ( L ) after a meeting at the Elysee Presidential Palace in Paris on Dec. 7 , 2024 . <p> Julien De Rosa Afp Getty Images <p> Assad 's downfall and the " de facto defeat " of Russia and Iran in the process , Blain said , has " massive implications for markets in terms of unwinding fears around the dollar 's pre-eminence , while increasing the momentum that could develop behind Trump 's global trade vision " -- both in terms of putting the U.S. and the U.S. dollar front and center , he noted . <p> " The effect on sentiment could be immense in terms of global confidence and redirected flows into U.S. assets and commodities on rising growth expectations , " Blain said . <p> Europe could also be a beneficiary of the regime change in Syria , if it means fewer displaced refugees entering the region -- a development that has fueled anti-immigrant sentiment and the rise of populist parties in recent years . <h> Israel and Turkey boosted <p> The major immediate geopolitical " winners " are Israel and Turkey , analysts also noted , with the former seeing its regional nemesis Iran weakened further , thanks to Assad 's downfall -- while Ankara emerges as " the most influential foreign actor in the country , " Wolfango Piccoli , co-president at risk consultancy Teneo , noted on Sunday . <p> " Turkey , which shares a 560 miles long frontier with Syria , has been a main backer of opposition groups aiming to topple Assad since the outbreak of the civil war in 2011 , " he said in emailed comments . <p> " Turkey is ( for now ) set to be the biggest external beneficiary of Assad 's fall , " Piccoli said , although he cautioned that Ankara will only feel the benefits of the regime change in Damascus " if no dangerous vacuum of power emerges and the power is transferred relatively peacefully from now on . " <p> Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan delivers a national statement at the World Climate Action Summit during the United Nations Climate Change Conference ( COP28 ) in Dubai , United Arab Emirates , December 1 , 2023 . <p> Thaier Al-sudani Reuters <p> " In other words , Turkey stands to benefit only if the Assad regime is replaced by a functioning government able to face the daunting task of delivering stability to a diverse country with competing factions that will need billions of dollars in aid and investments to rebuild , " Piccoli said . <p> " Unsurprisingly , Turkish authorities have urged Syrian opposition groups to unite following the fall of the regime in Damascus while avoiding any triumphalist claim , " he noted . <p> Israel is seen as a beneficiary of Assad 's fall because of its impact on Iran , which has used Syria as a supply route to its proxy in Lebanon , the militant group Hezbollah . Israel has looked to severely weaken this supply chain as part of its military campaign against Iranian proxies in Lebanon and the Gaza Strip . <p> In a Monday note , David Roche at Quantum Strategy described Assad 's fall as the first major geopolitical plate shift that weakens " the Axis of Autocracies " including Iran and Russia in a long time . <p> " It does not do away with the Israel -- Iran conflict . But it strengthens the hand of the Israel and U.S. to continue zapping Iran 's economic strength ( which Trump will do with hard sanctions to begin with ) . Ultimately Iran 's nuclear ambitions will still have to be dealt with militarily . But that comes later ( end 2025 2026 ? ) , " Roche said . <h> Russia weakened <p> The other most notable " loser " from Assad 's overthrow is his ally and backer Russia , which has helped prop up Assad 's regime since the start of the civil war . This time around , Moscow 's focus on the conflict in Ukraine has limited the amount of military aid it was willing and able to give to Assad 's forces . <p> There 's no doubt that Russia will be concerned over the amount of much influence -- and good will -- it can expect from a new leadership in Syria . Moscow has a vested interest in keeping the new government on side as it operates an air base in Hmeimim , along with a naval base in Tartus that gives it access to the Mediterranean Sea . <p> Rebel forces have given the Kremlin assurances that they would guarantee the safety of Russian military bases and diplomatic institutions in Syria , Reuters reported citing Russian news agencies , but Russia 's long-term military presence in the country is seen as far from certain . <p> A man sits in front of a poster depicting the since-ousted Syrian President Bashar al-Assad ( L ) and Russian President Vladimir Putin and reading in Arabic " Syria stands with the Russian Federation " , in Syria 's port city of Tartus on July 24 , 2022 . <p> Louai Beshara Afp Getty Images <p> Timothy Ash , emerging markets strategist at BlueBay Asset Management , described Assad 's ousting as a " huge humiliation for Putin who has made a lot of the fact that he never abandons his allies . " <p> " The limits of Russian military power have now been revealed -- unable to fight multiple wars , and still bogged down in Ukraine . Putin is struggling to hang on to the prized asset of the Tartus warm water port -- and if he keeps it , he might have had to give Turkey concessions elsewhere , " Ash said . <p> He further noted that Putin " now goes into Ukraine peace talks from a position of weakness , " adding that developments in Syria make " a better Ukrainian peace " more likely . <p> As for Iran , strategist Ash said Tehran 's misfortunes had just grown , after Israel already severely weakened its proxies , Hezbollah in Lebanon and Hamas in the Gaza Strip . <p> " Iran -- it just goes from bad to worse as another proxy domino drops , Hezbollah , now Assad . Could Tehran be next ? Could we see internal forces arise again ? " Ash said in emailed comments , questioning what Tehran can now do " to stop the rot " of its influence . 
@@118652755 <h> Loading .... <p> As I write this , Israel is forcibly emptying Palestinians from the last shelters in Beit Lahia , at gunpoint , in scenes reminiscent of those my family endured during Hitler 's Holocaust . Gaza now has the largest population of child amputees per capita in the world . Many are losing limbs and undergoing surgery without even anesthesia , much less pain medicine . As of today , Israel has killed 192 journalists and well over a thousand health care workers . Israel is systematically starving Gazans to death by denying humanitarian aid . <p> The U.N . Human Rights Office notes that children make up the single largest group of people killed by Israel . Euro-Med Human Rights Monitor found that Israel had killed at least 2,100 babies and toddlers age 0-2 years in just the first 10 months of the genocide . Doctors from medical aid organizations break down in tears describing constantly seeing kids shot in the head and chest by Israeli soldiers . The World Health Organization reports that 90% of Gaza 's population is living in tents . Over 1,400 Gaza families have been completely wiped out -- not a single person left in the registry . <h> ABOUT THE AUTHOR <p> Jamila Levasseur , a retired registered nurse , a member of Maine Coalition for Palestine and the granddaughter of Holocaust survivors . She lives in Waldo . <p> I cite these facts in response to every person who has written to this paper decrying the principled decisions of Portland and Belfast city councilors who voted for their cities to divest all funds from entities complicit in the ongoing genocide in Gaza , including all entities assisting Israel in the oppression of Palestinian people . <p> Using boilerplate arguments , these individuals cite age-old Zionist claims that attempt to justify the ethnic cleansing of non-Jews by hijacking Hitler 's Holocaust , which Israel 's founders clearly stated was a boon to the creation of their Jewish state . They prefer to forget that Jews were not Hitler 's only victims . Today , the Anti-Defamation League claims a 200% increase in " antisemitic incidents " while most of those " incidents " are protests calling for an end to Israel 's genocide on Gaza and calls for Palestinian liberation . Genuine antisemitic incidents are carried out by right-wing white supremacists , not by those of us carrying Palestinian flags . <p> When Israel 's founders accepted the U.N . partition plan in 1947 , they made no secret of their intention to expand beyond those borders , despite the plan giving the minority Jews a disproportionately large chunk of Palestine . Since 1967 , Israel has illegally occupied the West Bank , Gaza Strip , East Jerusalem and Golan Heights . Palestinians inside " ' 48 Israel " are barred from using 93% of the land under property laws , and they are treated as second-class citizens based on their not being Jews . <p> Advertisement <p> In occupied East Jerusalem and the West Bank , Israeli occupation forces terrorize Palestinians with night raids , home demolitions and sexual assault . Gaza has been under siege for nearly two decades . Israel controls access to all of life 's necessities . Children 's ages are often counted by how many wars they have lived through . Over 10,000 Palestinians are held in Israeli prisons , with over 3,400 held indefinitely without charge or trial in administrative detention . These numbers do not include those Gazans kidnapped , detained and tortured during the last 14 months . <p> This is not an " Israel-Hamas war . " This is genocide perpetrated by Israel , with our U.S. tax dollars , against people struggling for freedom , peace and liberation . A " two-state solution " is not possible and suggesting it is disingenuous , because Israel has carved up the West Bank with apartheid walls and illegal settlements , cutting Palestinian farmers off from their land , usurping water and isolating villages from each other , while Gaza , now in ruins , is completely separated . <p> Israel intends to take over the rest of the West Bank and northern Gaza . Neither Democrat nor Republican leaders have a problem with this . I resent Zionists claiming to speak for all Jews , using Hitler 's Holocaust to justify Israel 's crimes against humanity . <p> This is not complicated . Portland and Belfast city councilors looked at the facts and voted with their consciences . They deserve our support . 
@@118656850 <p> Israeli soldiers stand guard on a security fence gate near the so-called Alpha Line that separates the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights from Syria , in the town of Majdal Shams , Monday , Dec. 9 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Matias Delacroix ) <p> Matias Delacroix - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> An Israeli soldier stands guard at a security fence near the so-called Alpha Line that separates the Israeli-annexed Golan Heights from Syria , in the town of Majdal Shams , Monday , Dec. 9 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Matias Delacroix ) <p> Matias Delacroix - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Israeli army vehicles park near the so-called Alpha Line that separates the Israeli-annexed Golan Heights from Syria , Monday , Dec. 9 , 2024 , near the town of Majdal Shams . ( AP Photo/Matias Delacroix ) <p> Israeli soldiers sit on top of a tank along the so-called Alpha Line that separates the Israeli-annexed Golan Heights from Syria , in the town of Majdal Shams , Monday , Dec. 9 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Matias Delacroix ) <p> Matias Delacroix - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Israeli armored vehicles maneuver near the so-called Alpha Line that separates the Israeli-annexed Golan Heights from Syria , in the town of Majdal Shams , Monday , Dec. 9 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Matias Delacroix ) <p> Matias Delacroix - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Israeli soldiers stand guard on a security fence gate near the so-called Alpha Line that separates the Israeli-annexed Golan Heights from Syria , in the town of Majdal Shams , Monday , Dec. 9 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Matias Delacroix ) <p> Omar Sanadiki - stringer , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> A Syrian opposition fighter mans a checkpoint in the aftermath of Sunday 's opposition take over of the city in Damascus , Syria , Monday Dec. 9 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Omar Sanadiki ) <p> Metin Yoksu - stringer , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Syrians arrive to cross into Syria from Turkey at the Cilvegozu border gate , near the town of Antakya , southern Turkey , Monday , Dec. 9 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Metin Yoksu ) <p> Israeli strikes killed at least six people in the central Gaza Strip , Palestinian medical officials said Monday , while also hitting suspected chemical and long-range weapons sites in Syria to keep them from rebels who seized Damascus . <p> The U.N . Security Council is holding an emergency closed consultations on Syria Monday at the request of Russia , which said it granted asylum to its longtime ally Syrian leader Bashar Assad . <p> Russian President Vladimir Putin personally made the decision to offer asylum to Assad , Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters . Peskov would n't comment on Assad 's specific whereabouts and said that Putin was n't planning to meet with him . <p> Israel 's offensive has killed over 44,500 Palestinians in the Gaza since the start of the Israel-Hamas war , according to local health authorities . They say most of the dead are women and children but do not distinguish between fighters and civilians . <p> The war began when Hamas-led militants stormed into southern Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , killing some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and abducting around 250 , including older adults and children . Around 100 hostages are still inside Gaza , at least a third of whom are believed to be dead . <p> Here 's the Latest : <h> State Department says it is not actively reviewing HTS ' foreign terrorist organization ' designation <p> WASHINGTON -- The State Department says it is not actively reviewing the " foreign terrorist organization " designation of the main Syrian rebel group that overthrew of President Bashar Assad 's government this weekend . But , it says such designations are constantly under review and that even while it is in place , the designation does not bar U.S. officials speaking with members or leaders of the group . <p> " There is no specific review related to what happened " over the weekend , State Department spokesman Matthew Miller told reporters on Monday . " That said , we are always reviewing . Based on their actions there could be a change in our sanctions posture , but we have nothing today . " <p> He said a review could be initiated if HTS takes steps to reverse the reasons for its designation . That would be based entirely on their actions , he said . <p> The so-called FTO designation imposes numerous sanctions against those targeted , including a ban on the provision of " material support " to such groups , although Miller said that would not necessarily prevent discussions between its members and U.S. officials . <p> He cited the case of the Trump administration negotiating with the Taliban over the U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan but later conceded that the Taliban has never been designated an FTO . Instead , the Taliban was listed as a " specially designated terrorist organization " a label that comes with less stringent sanctions . <p> Nevertheless , Miller said that U.S. officials " do have the ability , when it is in our interest legally to communicate with a designated terrorist organization . " <p> In an unrelated move , Miller said the U.S. had arranged with local groups to secure the shuttered U.S. embassy compound in Damascus , which suspended operations in 2012 and had been until recently under the protection of the Czech embassy . The Czechs , however , closed their own embassy in Damascus as the situation in the capital grew more uncertain . Miller would not say with what groups the U.S. made the arrangements with . <h> U.S. President Joe Biden speaks to Jordan 's King Abdullah II about Syria <p> President Joe Biden and Jordan 's King Abdullah II spoke by phone on Monday about the rapidly evolving situation in Syria and joint efforts to keep the terror group ISIS from exploiting the situation , according to the White House . <p> The leaders also discussed the dozens of U.S airstrikes conducted on Sunday targeting IS leaders and fighters in the Syrian desert as well as ongoing efforts to reach a ceasefire and hostage deal in Gaza . <p> The call between the leaders comes with Undersecretary of state for Political Affairs John Bass and Assistant Secretary for Near Eastern Affairs Barbara Leaf in the region now holding consultations with key partners . They are in Amman , Jordan , on Monday and were in Doha , Qatar , over the weekend . <p> More than a million Syrian refugees have flooded into neighboring Jordan since the civil war ignited in 2011 , and officials in Amman are hoping to avoid another refugee crisis following the fall of Basher al-Assad 's regime . <p> " The President emphasized the support of the United States for the stability of Jordan and Jordan 's central role in maintaining stability and de-escalating tensions throughout the Middle East region , " the White House said in a statement . <p> DAMASCUS -- The Israeli air force launched more than 100 airstrikes targeting military sites in four Syrian cities , according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights and Associated Press reporters . The strikes killed two people and caused extensive damage to key military facilities . <p> The targeted military sites included research centers , weapons warehouses , airports and aircraft squadrons , the British-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said . The attacks also disabled air defense systems and rendered multiple sites inoperable . <p> Among the targets were research centers in Hama and Damascus , including the Barzeh Scientific Research Center . The facility has previously been targeted , most notably during a 2018 U.S.-led coalition strike in response to Syria 's alleged chemical weapons program . <p> In Damascus , an Associated Press reporter described plumes of smoke rising from the Barzeh research facility as weapon warehouses were also struck . Heavy explosions were heard across the capital . <p> In the port city of Latakia , airstrikes hit an air defense facility near the coastal port , damaging Syrian naval ships and warehouses previously controlled by the former Syrian regime , the Syrian Observatory said . <p> In Daraa , a city in southwestern Syria , strikes targeted military positions and warehouses in the western countryside and northern areas , killing two people , the observatory said . <p> The Israeli military declined to comment on the strikes in Syria . <p> Earlier on Monday , Israel 's Foreign Minister Gideon Saar said it had struck suspected chemical weapons sites and long-range rockets in Syria to prevent them from falling into the hands of hostile actors . <h> U.S. sends special envoy for hostage affairs to Beirut <p> The U.S. has sent its special envoy for hostage affairs to Beirut to seek information about the whereabouts of Austin Tice , a journalist who vanished in Syria 12 years ago , following the overthrow of Bashar Assad 's government . <p> Roger Carstens is talking to officials in the region to find out where Tice is and " get him home as soon as possible , " State Department spokesman Matthew Miller told reporters Monday . <p> President Joe Biden said Sunday that his administration believed Tice was alive and was committed to bringing him home . Tice , who has had his work published by The Washington Post , McClatchy newspapers and other outlets , disappeared in August 2012 at a checkpoint in a contested area west of Damascus . <p> A video released weeks after Tice went missing showed him blindfolded and held by armed men and saying , " Oh , Jesus . " He has not been heard from since . Syria has publicly denied that it was holding him . <p> Israel 's U.N . Ambassador Danny Danon sent an urgent letter to the U.N . Security Council Monday calling the recent developments in Syria " a security threat " and saying it has taken " limited and temporary measures to counter any further threat to its citizens . " He said Israel is committed to the framework of the 1974 disengagement agreement and " does not intervene in the ongoing conflict between Syrian armed groups . " <p> The Security Council is scheduled to meet shortly for closed consultations called by Russia which said it wanted the buffer zone issue discussed . <h> UN says Israeli forces are occupying a demilitarized buffer zone in violation of a ceasefire agreement <p> UNITED NATIONS -- The United Nations says Israeli forces are occupying a demilitarized buffer zone between Israel and Syria in violation of a 1974 ceasefire agreement following the 1973 Mideast war . <p> U.N . spokesman Stephane Dujarric said Monday U.N . peacekeepers confirmed that " Israeli Defense Forces have entered the area of separation and have been moving within that area where they remain in at least three locations . " <p> The Israeli military informed the peacekeeping force , known as UNDOF , that it would enter the area as " a temporary defensive measure " to prevent it from being occupied " by non-state armed groups " and reserved the right to take action against any threat against Israel , Dujarric said . <p> " For our part , the peacekeepers at UNDOF informed the Israeli counterparts that these actions would constitute a violation of the 1974 disengagement agreement , that there should be no military forces or activities in the area of separation , and Israel and Syria must continue to uphold the terms of that 1974 agreement , " the U.N . spokesman said . <p> Dujarric underscored that following the rebel overthrow of president Bashar Assad " the U.N . remains committed to helping Syrians build a country where reconciliation , where justice , and where freedom and prosperity are shared realities for all . " <h> Hundreds of Syrian refugees gather at border crossings in southern Turkey , eager to return to Syria <p> Many arrived at the Cilvegozu and Oncupinar border gates at daybreak , draped in blankets and coats . Some camped by the barriers of the border crossing , warming themselves with makeshift fires or resting on the cold ground . The crossings correspond to the Bab al-Hawa and Bab al-Salameh gates on the Syrian side of the border . <p> Hundreds of displaced Syrians are also returning from Lebanon , with dozens of cars lining up to enter . Turkish officials have not said how many Syrians have returned since Assad 's downfall . The country hosts 3 million refugees . <p> ANKARA , Turkey - Turkey 's president on Monday welcomed the capture of two Kurdish-held cities in northern Syria by a Turkey-backed opposition force and said Turkey would not allow militant groups to threaten its security from across its borders . <p> The Turkish proxy force , known as the Syrian National Army , took control of the city of Manbij on Monday days after it also took over the city of Tal Rifaat , expelling Syrian Kurdish militias . <p> In a televised address , Recep Tayyip Erdogan maintained that Kurdish groups in Syria were attempting to " turn the chaos into an opportunity . " <p> " We will not tolerate the emergence of new terrorist outbreaks beyond our borders , " Erdogan said . <p> The Turkish leader again hailed the fall of Syrian President Bashir Assad and vowed to stand by the Syrian people . <p> " As of yesterday , dark era has ended in Syria , bright days have begun , " Erdogan said . " While Aleppo , Hama , Homs and finally Damascus passed under the control of ( Syria 's ) real owners , the Baath dictatorship which had survived through blood , cruelty , oppression and tyranny for 61 years , has completely collapsed . " <p> Erdogan added that Turkey wanted all of Syria 's ethnic and religious groups to live in peace . <p> As hundreds of refugees began to return to Syria , Erdogan announced plans to reopen a third border crossing to prevent " congestions and ease the ( refugee ) flows . " <h> Syria 's opposition meets for the first time with the prime minister <p> BEIRUT -- The leader of Syria 's opposition met for the first time with the country 's prime minister to discuss Syria 's political transition following the fall of the Syrian regime . He emphasized that the new leadership can not entirely abandon the practices of the previous government . <p> In a video of the meeting shared on the rebels ' " Military Operations " Telegram channel , opposition leader Ahmad al-Sharaa , widely known as Abu Mohammad al-Golani , told Prime Minister Mohammad Ghazi Jalali , " The men have a high level of experience , " referring to the rebels . <p> " They started the work from nothing . Idlib is small and has few resources , but thank God , we were able to achieve something big through it , " he added . " You will see there are skills , and despite this , we can not dispense of the old practices . " <p> Earlier today , Jalali said most cabinet members who are in Damascus are performing their duties from their offices to guarantee security in the country . <h> Britain suspends decisions on accepting Syrian refugees <p> LONDON -- Britain has followed Germany and several other European countries by suspending decisions about whether to accept Syrian refugees in the wake of the Assad government 's fall . <p> The Home Office said in a statement on Monday that it " has paused decisions on Syrian asylum claims whilst we assess the current situation . " <h> British prime minister says the UK will not soon remove Syrian militant group HTS from its list of terror groups <p> LONDON -- British Prime Minister Keir Starmer says the U.K. will not soon remove Syrian militant group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham from its list of terror groups , after one of his Cabinet ministers said it would be considered " quite quickly . " <p> Speaking on a visit to Saudi Arabia , Starmer said " no decision is pending at all on this . " <p> Starmer said " it is far too early " to make that decision , and " at the moment the focus has to be on talking to our allies , making sure that this is an opportunity for Syria and therefore we have to work to make sure that this is a peaceful opportunity . " <p> Foreign Secretary David Lammy said HTS ' past links with al-Qaida " should rightly make us cautious " and " we will judge HTS by their actions . " <p> Cabinet Minister Pat McFadden said earlier that the group 's removal from the terrorist list " will have to be considered quite quickly . " <h> U.S. deputy ambassador to the UN outlines its priorities ahead of emergency Security Council meeting <p> UNITED NATIONS -- The United States has three primary interests in Syria : protecting U.S. soldiers and personnel , ensuring U.S. allies are safe , and preventing a humanitarian catastrophe , the U.S. deputy ambassador said ahead of an emergency U.N . Security Council meeting on the fast-evolving events in the country . <p> The United States will work to try and ensure that " all of those things happen , " Robert Wood told reporters ahead of Monday afternoon 's closed council meeting called by Russia . <p> He said another " high , high priority " for the U.S. is to locate and free missing American journalist Austin Tice , who disappeared 12 years ago near the Syrian capital . " We have reasons to believe that he still is ( alive ) , but we have to see , " he said . <p> Wood called the situation in Syria " dynamic " following the rebel overthrow of President Bashar Assad . The U.S. will judge the insurgent force now in control of Syria , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , or HTS on " what actions they take . " HTS is a U.S.-designated terrorist organization , which impacts U.S. efforts to communicate directly with the rebels . But he said there are various channels to talk to different factions " and we 're going to do that in order to try to best protect our interests in Syria right now . " <p> As for Iran 's so-called Axis of Resistance , Wood said Tehran and its allies Hezbollah and Hamas are clearly weakened while Israel has been strengthened . <p> " We just want to make sure that nefarious players are not going to be able to take advantage of the situation in Syria right now , because everything is fragile and fast-moving , " Wood said . <h> Rebel forces in Syria announce a general amnesty for all conscripted soldiers <p> BEIRUT -- Rebel forces in Syria announced Monday a general amnesty for all conscripted soldiers serving under mandatory service in the now-ousted Syrian regime . <p> " The Military Operations Directorate announces a general amnesty for all conscripted soldiers serving under mandatory service . Their safety is guaranteed , and any harm or assault against them is strictly prohibited , " the opposition said in a message on their Telegram channel . <p> The announcement followed the ousting of Bashar Assad and the fall of his regime , which had ruled Syria for over 50 years . The opposition faced little resistance from the Syrian army as it moved south , swiftly capturing one city after another . <h> Global chemical arms watchdog warns Syria about unaccounted weapons <p> THE HAGUE -- The global chemical weapons watchdog on Monday reminded Syria of its obligations to comply with rules to safeguard certain toxic chemicals , after rebels entered the capital Damascus over the weekend and overthrew President Bashar Assad . <p> The Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons said in a statement it has been " monitoring closely the recent developments in Syria , with special attention to the status of its chemical weapons related sites and other locations of interest . " <h> Ceasefire implementation committee holds its first meeting in Lebanon <p> BEIRUT -- Representatives from a five-member committee tasked with enforcing a ceasefire that stopped the war between Hezbollah and Israel on Monday held their first meeting in Naqoura , southern Lebanon . <p> The group , comprising the United States , France , the U.N . peacekeeping mission in Lebanon known as UNIFIL , the Lebanese army and the Israeli army met to coordinate efforts supporting the Nov. 27 ceasefire , the U.S. Embassy in Beirut said . <p> Hosted by UNIFIL and chaired by the U.S. with France assisting , the meeting focused on advancing the implementation of the U.S.-brokered ceasefire and U.N . Security Council Resolution 1701 , which aims to maintain stability along the Lebanon-Israel border , the embassy said . <p> " This mechanism will meet regularly and coordinate closely to advance implementation of the ceasefire agreement and UNSCR 1701 , " the U.S. Embassy said . <p> The U.S. military announced in late November that Maj. Gen. Jasper Jeffers and envoy Amos Hochstein would co-chair the committee temporarily , with Hochstein serving until a permanent civilian co-chair is appointed . <p> Copyright 2024 The Associated Press . All rights reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten or redistributed without permission . <h> Watch this discussion.Stop watching this discussion . <h> ( 0 ) comments <h> Welcome to the discussion . <p> Keep it Clean . Please avoid obscene , vulgar , lewd , racist or sexually-oriented language.PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.Do n't Threaten . Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.Be Truthful . Do n't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.Be Nice . No racism , sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.Be Proactive . Use the ' Report ' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us . We 'd love to hear eyewitness accounts , the history behind an article . 
@@118659242 <p> Caleb Gannon , 31 , will be arraigned Dec. 30 in Newton District Court -- more than three months after the shooting stoked local tensions over Israel 's war in Gaza . <p> Prosecutors previously said the violent Sept. 12 clash began when Gannon shouted at a small group of pro-Israel demonstrators who were rallying at the corner of Harvard and Washington streets . Part of the incident was captured in a viral video , in which Gannon can be heard accusing the demonstrators of defending genocide . <p> Advertisement : <p> According to prosecutors , Gannon sprinted across the street to tackle one of the demonstrators -- 47-year-old Scott Hayes -- who allegedly shot him during the ensuing struggle . Gannon was hospitalized with serious injuries , while Hayes was arrested and charged with assault and battery with a dangerous weapon . <p> Gannon 's attorney did not respond to a request for comment Monday . <p> Hayes , a Framingham resident , has pleaded not guilty and remains free on bail while his case is pending . According to WHDH , he plans to claim self-defense and his lawyers alleged in a recent court filing that Gannon reached for Hayes 's gun as they wrestled on the ground . <p> Advertisement : <p> Gannon used a cane as he walked into Newton District Court for an initial appearance last week , WHDH reported . His attorney told the news outlet Gannon suffered " life-changing injuries " in the shooting and spent more than a month in the hospital . 
@@118665447 <h> Yousef Abo Magadem is the first Bedouin director to make a feature film . <p> Directors whose films are about to be released often get interrupted during interviews to take phone calls about details of screenings , publicity , or posters . But until I met Yousef Abo Madegem , the director of Eid , a highly acclaimed movie playing throughout Israel now , no director had ever excused himself to sell a living room set . <p> There are many ways that Madegem is different from most Israeli directors , and one is that his day job is running a furniture store and workshop , Petra Home Design , in Rahat , his hometown . Rahat is the largest Bedouin city in Israel , and he is the first Bedouin director to make a feature film . <p> As he showed three young women wearing hijabs the options available on display at his store , I looked around the office and noticed something you wo n't see in any other furniture store in the world : A certificate from the Jerusalem Film Festival proclaiming that Eid had won the Haggiag Competition for Israeli Feature Films , the festival 's top prize . <p> Madegem , at the age of 54 , has broken barriers as a total outsider who got his movie made in the often cliquish world of the Israeli film industry , but he 's more than a curiosity . <p> Eid is a great film that tells a unique story of a young construction worker from Rahat who loves literature and wants to process the trauma of a sexual assault he suffered by writing a Jean Genet-influenced play . He is encouraged in his ambition by an Arab actress who lives in Paris with whom he communicates via Skype , while his parents pressure him to marry an uneducated woman , which is the last thing he wants . MAR'I AND Angham Khalil in ' Eid. ' ( credit : United King Films ) <p> No one has ever made a movie quite like this , and Eid skillfully blends all its themes , avoiding clich ? s and easy answers , to say something moving about a troubled young artist that will resonate with moviegoers around the world . <p> In addition to the prize at the Jerusalem Film Festival , the lead actor , Shadi Mar'i , best known for Fauda , won the Best Actor Award at that festival and also the Ophir Award for Best Actor this year . <p> MADEGEM SOON resumed our interview , having made a deal for some living room furniture , which will help support his three sons and seven daughters , a large family compared to most film-industry professionals . <p> The classic question to ask a filmmaker who has just made his debut film , especially one that seems to have personal elements , is whether it is , in fact , autobiographical . <p> " Eid is based on a true story , but it 's about a friend of mine , " said Madegem . " He was the victim of a sexual assault that he could n't talk about while he was growing up , and then he wanted to be a writer . <p> " We decided about 20 years ago to make a movie about his life experience , then he felt that , no , he could n't deal with it . So he wrote a play about it , which was performed and which won an award for the best play at the Akko Festival of Alternative Theatre . Afterward , we decided again that we would do a film about it . The screenplay changed as we worked on it , but the basic story remained the same . " <p> There have been feature films about Bedouin made previously , notably Sharqiya ( 2012 ) and Sand Storm ( 2016 ) , and while both were good , they were made by Jewish directors . <p> " Who other than you can tell your story ? " said Madegem . " Just you . Because you have power and you have knowledge that no one else has . You can add details and information effortlessly . You do n't have to think about whether , and how , to make the story emotional . The emotion is all built into the story , and you understand how to tell it . " <p> I wondered whether telling the story of a sexual assault victim in his community could cause problems for him . <p> Madegem said that was not a concern . " Cinema was born to create a conversation . It 's very important that there will be a discussion about this subject ... It 's true in many cultures that people stay quiet about this . " <p> He said he felt that the subject of sexual violence against boys was especially taboo . " Why is it that we warn girls not to take candy from strangers , but we do n't warn boys ? " <h> Bedouin society ready to open debate , beginning discussions <p> But Bedouin society is ready to have this debate now , he said . " We simply have to begin the discussion , " he said . " We need to get to another level in bringing this out in the open . " <p> While the vast majority of the reactions he got from the Bedouin community were positive when the film was screened in Jerusalem and the Cinema South Festival , " There was criticism ; I want there to be criticism about the content . If there is agreement across the board , for me , that 's not good . That means that the movie is too slick . " <p> He had great praise for Shadi Mar'i , who was important in bringing his complex vision to life . " He 's an amazing person . He came open-minded . Tabula rasa ... he lets you mold his performance as you go along . He does as you ask , but he comes with ideas ... He 'll ask for another take , he 'll say , ' I could give more . ' He really deserved the Ophir Award . He has been waiting to play a lead role , and he really stepped up . " <p> AS MADEGEM took a phone call , I reflected on how similar this industrial zone looked to other such neighborhoods around the country . Like many Israelis , I had never been to Rahat and thought of it as remote and inaccessible . But it turns out that it takes about the same time to reach it by train from Jerusalem as it takes to go to Haifa , a journey I have made countless times . <p> The Rahat-Lehavim station lets you off in Lehavim , a Jewish suburb , but a modern highway connects it to Rahat , which is just a few kilometers away . The only real hint that we were in a Bedouin town was that a bridal store near Madegem 's workshop showed posters of models in wedding gowns with matching white satin hijabs . <p> Madegem grew up here , the son of an agricultural worker . He wanted to go to university after high school , but there was no money , so he worked in construction , like Eid , and eventually enrolled in social work school , but dropped out after a year . <p> Always interested in taking photographs , he heard about a program at Sapir Academic College in Sderot that also taught filmmaking and got a BA there . His parents were mystified by his choice , not understanding how he would support himself and his family . <p> " It was n't just my parents who did n't understand , it was the whole society . " <p> As he went on to get a master 's degree and to study for a doctorate at the University of Haifa , he taught photography at high schools . When he got into financial trouble because a partner had mismanaged his store , his teachers at Sapir helped him by getting him scholarships and on-campus jobs . He also made television news features for Rafik Halabi . <p> All the while , he dreamed of making his first film . Eventually , he teamed up with Yuval Aharoni , who received screenwriter credit on Eid , and submitted it to Israeli film funds . They were given money from several film funds to develop Eid , including the Rabinovich Foundation , the Gesher Film Fund , Mifal Hapayis , and Keren Darom . <p> Some Arab filmmakers refuse to take money from Israeli film funds , but Madegem did n't hesitate . " I pay a lot of taxes , so I 'm entitled to this money . However , it does limit where the film can be shown in the Arab world . " It 's a little-known fact that Arab Israeli artists are boycotted by the BDS movement , as well as Jewish ones . <p> " It also hurts its chances to be accepted to international film festivals during the war . I hope eventually it will go to countries like Morocco , the UAE , maybe Tunisia . " The movie is set to be shown at a number of film festivals around the world soon , including in the US and Europe . <p> OPENING THE movie during the war has not been simple . " The movie was almost done when the war broke out . The war did n't interfere with it getting finished . But it was hard to feel completely happy about it because of the war , because of all the pain , all the destruction , the ruins , the victims , all of the loss . " <p> Like many Bedouin , the Hamas attack touched his life . Eighteen Bedouin were killed on October 7 and seven were taken hostage . " Two relatives of mine were killed in the war . Several were wounded . The hostages from the Ziyadne family , Yousef and Hamza , are cousins of my son-in-law . " Yousef and Hamza are still held hostage in Gaza . <p> He recently made a documentary about how the Bedouin in Israel are coping with the war , called Open Wound , which was shown at the Cinema South Festival and details how Bedouin have lost relatives both in Israel and in Gaza . <p> Even without the war breaking out , it was a long , hard road to get Eid to the screen , and Madegem earned very little from it , but it was a labor of love . <p> " It 's very little money , it 's a joke , but when you make a film that wins prizes , there is prestige and recognition . And there 's something more important . There 's the peace of mind , the satisfaction you get from making it . I 'm proud of myself , and my family is proud of me ... Every time I see it , I see it as if it 's new , I feel a different emotion . And it 's a great feeling . " <p> While the movie 's hero is Bedouin , he said , " It 's not a movie just for Bedouin or Israeli society . It 's a movie that crosses barriers , borders , societies , languages . That 's what 's great about making a movie and getting it out to the world . " 
@@118669759 <p> Syrians are dancing in the streets of Damascus and other cities , to celebrate the collapse of the hideous regime of Bashar al-Assad , the man responsible for an estimated 600,000 dead in a 13-year-long civil war -- including tens of thousands viciously tortured to death in his dungeons . <p> " This is the moment of celebration , " I was told by the University of Oklahoma 's Joshua Landis , a Syria specialist with family in the country . He told me the dispirited Syrian army had faded away and let rebels win because they had been receiving little or no pay and no further support from their Russian and Iranian backers . <p> That 's the good news . <p> The not so good news : No one is certain what kind of government will follow Assad in the weeks to come -- whether it will help stabilize the region , including Lebanon and possibly Gaza , or further tear it apart . <p> The critical news , which may save Syria from a relapse into violence : Assad 's flight to exile in Moscow is a body blow to Iran 's ayatollahs and Russian dictator Vladimir Putin , for whom Syria had critical importance . It displays their increasing weakness and paints them as losers . It makes them more vulnerable to anyone who seeks negotiations with either . <p> President-elect Trump , take note . <p> The immediate post-Assad threat is that Syria might collapse into separate militia fiefs or into another civil war . Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( known as HTS ) -- the main rebel group that toppled the government in a lightning advance from the north -- was once the Syrian branch of al-Qaeda . Its leader , Abu Mohammed al-Jolani , broke with the terrorist group several years ago and is trying to soften his image . But Syria 's many minorities will have doubts . <p> " Jolani 's going to have to reach out to all these different Syrian communities , " said Landis , hopefully . <p> I still recall my last visit inside Syria in 2012 , during the Arab Spring just before the heightened civil war and Islamist kidnappings made journalistic access almost impossible . <p> With a Syrian translator , I visited a headquarters of a group called Ahrar al-Sham , inside an abandoned school , and the aggressive hostility of the fighters was only contained when a Belgian volunteer intervened . I soon left . I also interviewed moderate , unbearded civilian fighters who had set up militias because they wanted a democracy to replace Assad 's vicious rule . <p> How to coalesce secular Syrians , moderate Muslims , Kurds , and Christians into a government with Islamists , and whether free elections will be possible is the huge challenge Syria will face . <p> After a popular uprising in 2011 , Assad was only able to retain power because of intervention by Tehran , and later by Moscow . Although Syria has a religiously and ethnically mixed population , including a plurality of Sunni Muslims along with Kurds , Christians and other minorities , Assad belongs to a minority Shiite sect , known as Alawites , who have controlled the country for decades . Thus he was close to the Shiite regime in Tehran . <p> The Iranians sent thousands of fighters to Syria , comprised of their own forces along with Iraqi Shiite militias and even Afghan refugees living in Iran . Led by Iranian Revolutionary Guards officers , they were much more effective combatants than the underpaid and corrupt Syrian army . <p> Iran 's quid pro quo was Assad 's permission to allow Iranian weapons and missiles to be trucked and flown from Tehran via Damascus to Hezbollah fighters in Lebanon to use against Israel . <p> Syria thus became a critical element of Tehran 's effort to encircle Israel with a " ring of fire " that included Lebanon 's Hezbollah militiamen ( along with Hamas in Gaza and Houthis in Yemen ) . <p> With Assad gone and Sunni Syrian rebel groups in charge , Iranians are fleeing the country . No more will they be able to transport weapons to Lebanon to be used against Israel . Nor will they be able to help the Alawite minority dominate the country . <p> Russia , for its part , sent planes in 2015 to bomb Syrian civilians and cities into rubble , just as they have done to Ukraine . Moscow was rewarded with a critical Mediterranean port in Tartus and a major airfield which helped support Putin 's expansionist ambitions . <p> Russia will most likely lose those bases , which gave them their only access to the Mediterranean and gave Putin an important Mideast role . His global access is thus shrinking . And Syria , hopefully , will be freed from his colonial games . <p> This means that the Islamists , and Jolani , will have to look to the moderate Sunni Arab world and to the West to help rebuild their country and resettle Syrian refugees who return . Which in turn gives those Arabs and Western leaders leverage to prevent any attempt to impose an ultraconservative religious state . <p> If this leverage is not used wisely , Jolani could become a threat , in a country where ISIS still has cells that are in touch with their counterparts in Iraq . If used wisely , Syria could revive and rebuild its shattered society . <p> Nothing less is owed to the thousands who died under torture during Assad 's rule . 
@@118696245 <h> 2024 in Photos : How the First Months Unfolded <p> As the end of the year approaches , here is a look back at some of the major news moments of 2024 . Events covered in this essay ( the first of a three-part photo summary of the year ) include a deadly earthquake in central Japan , the relocation of the Space Shuttle Endeavour , ongoing Israeli airstrikes in Gaza , a rat hole in Chicago , and much more . Check back later this week for Parts 2 and 3 , and be sure to see our earlier " Top 25 News Photos of 2024 . " <p> To receive an email notification every time new photo stories are published , sign up here . <p> A police officer in Kyiv , Ukraine , carries a pet from the scene of a missile attack by Russian forces in a residential area on January 2 , 2024 . The attack was part of a barrage of Russian air strikes that hit Kyiv and Kharkiv , which reportedly killed five people and injured at least 135. # <p> Utility workers fix electric power lines in the aftermath of an earthquake in Suzu , Japan , on January 4 , 2024 . A series of major earthquakes killed at least 470 people , injured hundreds more , and damaged thousands of structures . The earthquakes , the biggest measuring 7.5 magnitude , hit areas around Ishikawa , Toyama , and Niigata in central Japan on January 1. # <p> Al Jazeera journalist Wael Dahdouh holds the hand of his son Hamza , who also worked for Al Jazeera and who was killed in an Israeli airstrike in Rafah , Gaza , on January 7 , 2024 . Dahdouh lost his wife , two other children , and a grandson earlier in the war and was nearly killed himself. # <p> Men lead a cow over a burning haystack as part of a ritual to seek fortune and protection for the cattle owners , marking the Hindu festival of Makar Sankranti , in Bengaluru , India , on January 15 , 2024. # <p> A woman holds her dog as it reacts while being blessed by a priest at the Cathedral San Bernardino de Siena during the ceremony commemorating the Feast of San Antonio Abad , the patron saint of domestic animals , in Xochimilco , on the outskirts of Mexico City , on January 17 , 2024. # <p> People gather to protest against the far-right Alternative for Germany ( AfD ) political party on January 21 , 2024 , in Munich , Germany . Protests against the AfD and in defense of democracy had been taking place across Germany for the previous week , following the revelation that high-ranking AfD members met with far-right extremists at a villa in Potsdam . Participants at the meeting reportedly discussed how to possibly introduce legislative measures to enable the mass expulsion of immigrants from Germany , as well as German citizens with immigrant roots and German citizens who have helped refugees. # <p> Coins are left behind by visitors at an impression in a sidewalk known as the Chicago Rat Hole , in the Roscoe Village neighborhood of Chicago , Illinois , on January 24 , 2024 . The decades-old impression in the the shape of a rat ( or squirrel ) began attracting a regular stream of visitors after a post on X garnered more than 5 million views. # <p> Bienne Terita of Australia fends off Heather Cowell of Great Britain during the 2024 Perth SVNS women 's rugby match between Australia and Great Britain at HBF Park in Perth , Australia , on January 26 , 2024. # <p> NASA 's Space Shuttle Endeavour , wrapped in protective plastic , is transported to the site of the future Samuel Oschin Air and Space Center in Los Angeles , California , on January 26 , 2024 . For its exhibition at the space center , Endeavour was placed in a launch position with its booster rockets and external tank. # <p> Police detain a man as he tries to lay flowers to pay last respects to Alexei Navalny at the monument , a large boulder from the Solovetsky Islands , where the first camp of the Gulag political prison system was established , in St. Petersburg , Russia , on February 17 , 2024 . Russian authorities said that Navalny , Russian President Vladimir Putin 's fiercest foe , who crusaded against official corruption and staged massive anti-Kremlin protests , died in prison . He was 47. # <p> A melted street lamp stands in front of a burned home in Canadian , Texas , on February 28 , 2024 . The Smokehouse Creek Fire burned more than a million acres across parts of Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle. # <p> This picture taken on March 7 , 2024 , shows the cargo ship Rubymar partly submerged off the coast of Yemen . The bulk carrier went down after a Houthi missile attack . All 24 crew members were rescued by a passing container ship. # <p> Local residents ride past a damaged building following a violent earthquake in Hualien City , Taiwan , on April 4 , 2024 . At least 18 people were killed and more than 1,100 injured by the earthquake , which damaged dozens of buildings and prompted tsunami warnings as far as Japan and the Philippines. # <p> A couple sits on Tourkovounia hill as southerly winds carry waves of Saharan dust in Athens , Greece , on April 23 , 2024 . Clouds of dust blown in from the Sahara covered Athens and other Greek cities that day , one of the worst such episodes to hit the country since 2018 , officials said. # <p> A survivor eats a meal after receiving treatment at the Naivasha Sub-county Hospital for injuries he suffered after heavy flash floods wiped out several homes when a dam burst following heavy rains in Kamuchiri Village , in Naivasha , Nakuru County , Kenya , on April 29 , 2024. # 
@@118696546 <p> The memo from Biden 's chief of staff Jeff Zients , which was addressed to all White House staff , outlined the 46th president 's foreign and domestic priorities for his remaining 42-day " sprint " before President-elect Donald Trump assumes office , a copy of the memo obtained by The Post shows . <p> In addition to addressing foreign conflicts that erupted on his watch , the 82-year-old commander-in-chief is touting his $2,000 prescription drug cap for some Medicare beneficiaries as well as " more student debt cancellation for public service workers and other borrowers , " purportedly to lower costs for Americans . <p> President Biden at the Tribal Nations Summit at the Department of the Interior in Washington , DC , December 9 , 2024 . REUTERS <p> Biden has already wiped away more than $175 billion in loans for millions of student borrowers , as part of a 2020 campaign promise to eliminate their debt . <p> While some of it was blocked by federal courts , Jason Furman , the former chair of President Barack Obama 's Council of Economic Advisers , lambasted the mass debt cancellation for " pouring roughly half a trillion dollars of gasoline on the inflationary fire " that hit a 40-year high in 2022 . <p> The following year , the US Supreme Court struck down as unconstitutional a move by Biden 's Education Department to make use of a 2003 law meant for veterans of the Iraq war to eliminate $430 billion in student loans . <p> The president pivoted in late 2023 and into 2024 to using the Higher Education Act of 1965 and other federal rulemaking to have the department erase more than half a billion dollars in debt for other borrowers , including those who have been struggling to pay off their loans for more than 10 years and federal employees . <p> Nearly all of those have since been halted by lower-court rulings -- but the Biden administration could still forgive another $100 billion in loan repayments for individuals it believes have an 80% chance of defaulting by using a " predictive assessment using existing borrower data . " <p> In total , the nonpartisan Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget projected that the incoming Trump administration could save up to $550 billion by reversing Biden 's various student debt forgiveness schemes . <p> Relatives and supporters of Israelis held hostage in Gaza since the October 7 attacks lift placards calling on the US to intervene for their release . AFP via Getty Images <p> On foreign policy , Zients said Biden remains " engaged " in talks to release Israeli and American hostages held by Hamas in the Gaza Strip -- who have been held in captivity for more than a year since the Oct. 7 , 2023 , massacre . <p> " The President is currently engaged in another push with Turkey , Egypt , Qatar , Israel , and others to achieve a ceasefire in Gaza with the hostages released , " reads the memo -- despite reports showing Trump 's transition team has added " fresh momentum " in the negotiations and already sent envoys to Israel and Qatar . <p> Biden 's support for Israel in its war against Hamas alienated some left-wing members of the Democratic coalition , who voted against their party 's nominee during their primary earlier this year and smeared him as " Genocide Joe " for refusing to stop sending munitions or agreeing to divest from the Jewish state . <p> Airmen with the 436th Aerial Port Squadron use a forklift to move 155mm ( 6-inch ) shells ultimately bound for Ukraine , April 29 , 2022 , at Dover Air Force Base , Del . AP <p> On Ukraine , Zients added that Biden will " do more " to get the country " in the best position possible " -- and that he will deliver " additional artillery rounds , air defense , and other critical capabilities . " <p> But with the fall of Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad 's regime last weekend , Trump has indicated that Russia 's position is weakening and President Vladimir Putin may be prepared to negotiate a peace with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky . <p> Other parts of the memo spoke about plans to issue more " high-speed internet funds to states , " pushing Senate Democrats to ram through his judicial nominees , and working with Congress to avoid a government shutdown before the year 's end . <p> " And there 's so much more we 're working on , " the Zients memo concluded . " We have announcements to come on everything from climate to conservation to AI and more . " 
@@118696740 <h> An opportunity for peace after Assad collapse <p> The fall of former President Bashar Assad 's tyranny in Syria is a strategic victory for the United States and a defeat for the U.S. 's main enemies in the region , Iran and Russia . It was not a victory authored by President Joe Biden 's foreign policy but the direct result of Israel 's brave and legitimate response to Iran 's proxy war against the Middle East 's only democracy . Biden 's weak and clumsy policy in the region undermined Israel rather than supporting it as it should have . <p> Principal credit for Assad 's overthrow belongs to Syrians . In the end , it was an armed popular uprising of Syrian militias that captured cities and forced Assad to flee to his masters in Moscow . But the Syrian civil war has been raging for over a decade , and it was n't until Israel 's recent military actions that new conditions made it possible for the rebels to win . <p> After Hezbollah attacked Israel with rockets to support Hamas , with which Israel was locked in an existential war after the Oct. 7 massacres , Israel decapitated the Iranian-backed terrorist organization in Lebanon in a stunningly impressive and swift fashion . First , it destroyed the Iranian Consulate in Syria , then blew up pagers used by Hezbollah operatives , putting the users out of action , and then eliminated Hassan Nasrallah , leader of Hezbollah , before going on to dismantle the remaining upper tiers of the Hezbollah hierarchy . <p> Finally , Israel invaded Lebanon , engaging Hezbollah fighters with withering fire . Assad relied on the Iranian proxy 's infantry to maintain his grip on the country , and with Hezbollah 's fighting ranks beaten to a pulp , if not to submission , and their leaders gone up ( mostly in smoke ) , Assad 's forces were left alone and proved no match for the Syrian rebels . <p> Iran has lost its proxy foothold in Gaza and Lebanon and its puppet dictator in Syria , significantly weakening the mullah 's " Axis of Resistance " and its ability to project power in the region . All this demonstrates how misguided former President Barack Obama and Biden were in the Middle East , with both men basing their identical strategies on the fantasy that Iran could become a responsible security partner . <p> This was always dangerously naive , misconstruing both the nature and capabilities of the clerical tyranny in Tehran . The Islamic Republic of Iran has always been a source of violence and instability in the Middle East , additionally intent on damaging America . It was always an enemy and should have been treated as one , contained and neutered , not empowered and trusted . <p> President-elect Donald Trump understood this during his first term in office and pursued a policy of " maximum pressure " that included ending Obama 's foolish nuclear deal with Iran and enforcing sanctions against its oil industry and leaders . Biden undid these policies , providing resources to the mullah 's terrorist network , setting the stage for the Oct. 7 pogrom of Israeli civilians by Hamas . <p> Once Israel responded , Biden undermined its efforts , calling for restraint and ceasefires that would let Hamas and Hezbollah rest , regroup , and return to the battlefield to kill again . Thankfully , Israel ignored Biden and did what was needed to protect its security . <p> Trump would be wise to support Israel in its campaign to rid its neighborhood of Iranian influence , and there is much he could do to help . He could increase pressure on Tehran by revoking the sanctions waivers granted to Tehran by Biden 's administration . He could further weaken Iran 's economy by cracking down on smugglers who buy Iranian oil illicitly . Finally , Trump could make it clear that any attack on U.S. interests by Iran or its proxies would prompt military retaliation . <p> Trump knows Russia 's invasion of Ukraine played a role in Assad 's downfall as well , noting on social media that Moscow " lost all interest in Syria because of Ukraine , where close to 600,000 Russian soldiers lay wounded or dead , in a war that should never have started , and could go on forever . " <p> Now that Russia is feeling the sting of its strategic miscalculation , Trump can also help bring an end to that conflict . 
@@118697459 <h> Israel , seeing an opportunity , demolishes Syria 's military assets <p> The aftermath Tuesday of an overnight strike attributed to Israel on the Barzeh scientific research center affiliated with the Syrian Defense Ministry in northern Damascus.OMAR HAJ KADOUR/AFP via Getty Images <p> JERUSALEM -- As soon as it became clear Sunday that there would be regime change in neighboring Syria , Israel began a sweeping aerial campaign . <p> By Tuesday , hundreds of airstrikes had leveled military assets across Syria , taking out the navy , chemical weapons development sites , aircraft , weapons depots , air defense systems , missiles , and rockets , according to Israeli officials , analysts , and an independent war-monitoring group . <p> Israeli officials said they were destroying weapons and military facilities to keep them out of the hands of Islamist extremists . The rebel group that led the toppling of the president , Bashar Assad , was formerly linked to Al Qaeda and is still designated as a terrorist group by the United States and the United Nations . <p> " We have no intention to meddle in Syria 's internal affairs , but we certainly intend to do whatever is needed to guarantee our security , " Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel said Tuesday . <p> Advertisement <p> The Israeli campaign over the past two days has been exceptional in force and scope , trying to ensure that whoever ends up in power in Syria will be significantly disarmed . <p> It followed months of intensified Israeli airstrikes on Syria , including on weapons depots belonging to Iran and Hezbollah . But the large-scale bombings this week have been far more comprehensive and devastating to Syria 's military capabilities , analysts said . <p> The assault delivered a blow to the infrastructure in Syria that Iran used to transport weapons to Hezbollah in Lebanon . And Netanyahu warned the country 's future leaders to prevent Iran from using Syrian territory again for its own military purposes . <p> But the intense air assault on Syria at such a fragile moment raised alarm among some in the international community . <p> " This needs to stop , " the UN special envoy for Syria , Geir Pedersen , told reporters in Geneva on Tuesday . As Syrian factions attempt an orderly transition to a new government , it is " extremely important that we do n't see any action from any international actor that destroys the possibility for this transformation in Syria to take place , " he said . <p> The UN also expressed concern about Israel 's actions on the ground . <p> Advertisement <p> On Saturday , even before Assad fled the country , Israeli forces entered Syrian territory for the first time in 50 years . They have since taken control of a 155-square-mile demilitarized buffer zone in the Golan Heights that has been patrolled by UN troops since the 1973 Middle East war . The zone abuts Syrian-controlled territory . <p> Israel captured the Golan during the 1967 Middle East war and annexed most of it in 1981 . Most of the world views the area as Israeli-occupied Syrian territory , but over the past decades , Israel has firmly defended the land . <p> St ? phane Dujarric , spokesperson for the UN secretary general , told reporters that the presence of Israeli forces in the area violated the 1974 agreement that created the buffer zone . <p> " There should be no military forces or activities in the area , " he said . <p> Netanyahu said Monday that the 1974 agreement had collapsed because Syrian troops protecting some of the buffer zone had abandoned their posts . <p> Egyptian officials said Israel 's actions " violate international law , undermine the unity and integrity of Syrian territory and exploit the current instability to occupy more Syrian land . " Egypt called on the UN Security Council to " take a firm stance against Israeli attacks on Syria , ensuring its sovereignty over all its territories . " <p> The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights , an independent group based in Britain that has tracked the civil war in Syria for years , said Tuesday that it had documented about 310 Israeli strikes in Syria since Sunday . The attacks targeted warehouses , aircraft squadrons , radars , military signal stations , and numerous weapons and ammunition depots , it said . <p> Advertisement <p> Photographs from Syria on Tuesday showed sunken boats at a shipyard , crumbled buildings , and the charred remains of a science research center that had been linked to the country 's chemical weapons program , according to the news agencies that distributed the images . <p> " I 've just watched dots all over the place -- it 's been literally hundreds of attacks in the last 48 hours , " said Miri Eisin , a retired Israeli colonel who has been tracking the strikes for the International Institute for Counter-Terrorism . <p> " Thank Israel that Israel just destroyed the chemical weapons that nobody else was willing to touch , " she said . <p> Under Assad , the Syrian government used chemical weapons -- particularly sarin nerve agent -- against citizens numerous times during the 13-year civil war . <p> Netanyahu said Israel would like to forge relations with the new Syrian government -- on certain conditions . <p> " If this regime allows Iran to reestablish itself in Syria , or allow for the proliferation of Iranian weapons or any other weapons to Hezbollah or attack us , we will respond forcefully and exact a heavy price , " he said . <p> Katz said Israel 's move into the buffer zone on the Golan Heights aimed to prevent militants from amassing near Israel , as had happened in the Gaza Strip and Lebanon . <p> He said that Israeli forces would " establish a defensive area clean of weapons and terror threats in southern Syria . " <p> Nadav Shoshani , an Israeli military spokesperson , confirmed that Israeli forces had moved outside the buffer zone in several areas . But he said that was because of the landscape and " not an offensive . " 
@@118697857 <p> President Joe Biden is leaving office in a few weeks and -- as presidents tend to do -- is sharing some self-reflective thoughts in the twilight of his term . Not about the war in Gaza or about his decision to remain in the 2024 race long after it became clear he was incapable of serving a second term -- but about Covidstimulus checks . <p> During a Tuesday speech at the Brookings Institution , Biden said he regretted not signing his name on pandemic-era stimulus payments as President-elect Donald Trump had . <p> " Within the first two months of office I signed the American Rescue Plan , " Biden said . " And also learned something from Donald Trump -- he signed checks for people , $7,400 for people because we passed the plan . I did n't -- stupid . " <p> Biden 's statement was incorrect on several fronts . The maximum amount given to an individual with no children through the three combined pandemic-era stimulus payments was $3,200 . Two of those checks were authorized under Trump 's administration , and the third under Biden . <p> Trump did make a show of having his name printed on the first round of checks issued in mid-2020 , marking the first time a president 's name had appeared on an IRS disbursement . While the president-elect was criticized for treating economic relief born of an act of Congress as a personal payment to Americans , his signature 's presence on the checks had staying power . <p> " I 'm sure people will be very happy to get a big , fat , beautiful check and my name is on it , " Trump said at the time . <p> Earlier this year , while campaigning for Vice President Kamala Harris , former President Barack Obama said that he often hears " folks say , ' Donald Trump sent me a check during the pandemic , ' " as a reason for their support of the Republican . <p> " Let me make sure y'all understand this . Joe Biden sent you a check during the pandemic , just like I gave people relief during the Great Recession . The thing is , we did n't put our name on it because it was n't about feeding our egos , it was n't about advancing our politics , it was about helping people . That 's the difference , " Obama added . <h> Editor 's picks <p> When Biden issued the third round of stimulus payments in March 2021 , he removed the presidential signature from the payments . Former White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki told reporters at the time that " this is not about Biden . This is about the American people getting relief . " <p> Biden also used his speech at the Brookings Institution on Tuesday to warn of the devastating impact Trump 's economic plans could have for average Americans . <p> " The incoming administration is determined to return the country to another round of trickle-down economics and another tax cut for the wealthy that will not be paid for , " Biden said . " Once again causing massive deficits or significant cuts to basic programs like health care , education , and veterans benefits . " <p> " On top of that , he seems determined to impose steep universal tariffs on all imported goods , " he added . " I believe this approach is a major mistake . I believe we have proven that approach is a major mistake over the last four years . " <p> " But we 'll all know in time , we 'll all know in time , " the outgoing president lamented . 
@@118698043 <h> Israel steps up airstrikes , sends troops deeper into Syria <p> Dec. 10 , 2024Updated Tue. , Dec. 10 , 2024 at 12:54 p.m . Syrians look for metal pieces and unexploded ammunition at the site of the previous evening 's Israeli airstrike that targeted shipments of weapons that belonged to Syrian government forces in Qamishli , in mainly Kurdish northeastern Syria , on Dec. 10 , 2024 . The UN special envoy for Syria called on Israel on Dec. 10 to halt its military movements and bombardments in Syria , after a war monitor reported 300 air strikes since the fall of president Bashar al-Assad . ( Delil Souleiman/AFP/Getty Images North America/TNS ) <p> Israel stepped up its attacks on military sites in Syria , hitting hundreds of targets early Tuesday and sending troops deeper into the country . <p> The offensive targeted warehouses and weapons depots in several parts of Syria including the capital Damascus , bringing total Israeli airstrikes in the past two days to at least 310 , according to the U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights . <p> Israel 's Army Radio , citing an unnamed defense official , described Tuesday 's attack as one of the biggest in the airforce 's history . Syria television also reported Israeli airstrikes on Damascus and its suburbs on two separate occasions . <p> Israel seized a buffer zone along its border with Syria , an area the army says is about 155 square miles in size , a day after rebel groups toppled Bashar Assad 's government on Sunday . Israel said it struck Syrian chemical weapons and missile-storage sites to make sure they do n't fall into the hands of extremists , who may use them to harm the country 's citizens . <p> Israel is wary of the opposition groups that brought down Assad 's government after a rapid territorial advance . The rebels are led by Hayat Tahrir Al-Sham , an Islamist group originally affiliated with Al-Qaeda that 's designated a terrorist organization by the U.S. and many other countries . <p> Nevertheless , leaders of the Group of Seven , a collective of nations that includes the U.S. and U.K. , are willing to support a new Syrian government -- if the transition process respects the rule of law as well as religious and ethnic minorities in the country . <p> The G-7 " is hopeful that all the opposition groups seeking a role in governing Syria will demonstrate their commitment to the rights of all Syrians , " according to a draft statement the group plans to issue later this week . The G-7 is also set to call for the safe return of the millions of Syrians who fled the country under Assad , including to European countries . <p> Israel 's seizure of the buffer zone and its sustained attacks have drawn the ire of Arab nations including Egypt and Saudi Arabia . In a statement , the kingdom said Israel 's assault showed " determination to sabotage Syria 's chances of restoring its security , stability and territorial integrity . " <p> Egypt also went as far as accusing Israel of seeking to " occupy more Syrian territory . " <p> The Syrian Observatory , which has been monitoring the war via a network of people on the ground , said Israeli tanks were seen in the southwestern suburbs of Damascus , a dozen miles away from the capital . <p> The Israel Defense Forces are deployed in the buffer zone as well as points close to the border with Syria , spokesperson Avichay Adraee said in a post on X. He said reports circulating in some media outlets claiming Israeli troops were " advancing or approaching Damascus are completely incorrect . " <p> Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's government was formally in a state of war with Assad , whose government maintained relative calm on that border despite some violations in the past year . But the emergence of a new Islamist power base in its immediate vicinity adds an additional threat after more than a year fighting Iran-backed militant groups in Gaza and Lebanon . <p> Israel took the Golan Heights from Syria by the end of the 1967 Six Day War and a few years later annexed it . U.N . troops were deployed in a buffer zone to maintain the ceasefire back then . <p> The head of HTS , Ahmed Al-Sharaa , is trying to change the image of his group from a radical one to a unified opposition capable of inclusive governance in Syria . In an interview with CNN last week , he said " no one has the right to erase another group , " responding to a question about previous attacks on minority groups . <p> In a statement over the weekend , the quasi-government of the opposition sought to reassure the international community that they would not use chemical weapons stored in Syria . <p> Listen and follow The Big Take on Apple Podcasts , Spotify or wherever you get your podcasts <p> " We have no intention or desire to use chemical weapons or any weapons of mass destruction under any circumstance , " the opposition said . <p> The Spokesman-Review Newspaper <p> Local journalism is essential . <p> Give directly to The Spokesman-Review 's Northwest Passages community forums series -- which helps to offset the costs of several reporter and editor positions at the newspaper -- by using the easy options below . Gifts processed in this system are not tax deductible , but are predominately used to help meet the local financial requirements needed to receive national matching-grant funds . 
@@118740650 <p> A 92-year-old Japanese survivor of the U.S. atomic bombing of Nagasaki described the horrors he witnessed in 1945 as he accepted this year 's Nobel Peace Prize on Tuesday on behalf of his anti-nuclear weapons group . <p> The Nobel Peace Prize was awarded in October to Nihon Hidankyo , which is made up of survivors of the U.S. atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki , a group also known as hibakusha . The organization , founded in 1956 , has battled for nearly 70 years to eliminate nuclear weapons globally by aiming to maintain a taboo around their use . <p> The United States used the weapons for the first and only time in the two Japanese cities in 1945 , hastening Japan 's surrender to the Allies to end World War II . By the end of that year , the bombings had killed an estimated 140,000 people in Hiroshima and 70,000 in Nagasaki , though the death toll continued to rise for decades as people succumbed to the long-term effects of radiation exposure . <p> Since then , nuclear weapons have multiplied across the globe , with the ability to inflict damage hundreds or thousands of times greater than they did in Hiroshima and Nagasaki . As the hibakusha age , many fear that the stigma associated with the deployment of nuclear bombs will fade and their stories will be lost to history . <p> " The nuclear superpower Russia threatens to use nuclear weapons in its war against Ukraine , and a cabinet member of Israel , in the midst of its unrelenting attacks on Gaza in Palestine , even spoke of the possible use of nuclear arms , " the 92-year-old survivor , Terumi Tanaka , said in his acceptance speech in Oslo . <p> " I am infinitely saddened and angered that the ' nuclear taboo ' threatens to be broken , " said Tanaka , one of three chairpersons of Nihon Hidankyo . <p> Tanaka said there are 12,000 nuclear warheads around the world today , with 4,000 of them operationally deployed and ready to be launched immediately . <p> J ? rgen Watne Frydnes , chair of the Norwegian Nobel Committee , said in introductory remarks that the mission of the hibakusha was more urgent than ever . <p> " None of the nine countries that possess nuclear weapons -- the United States , Russia , China , France , the United Kingdom , India , Pakistan , Israel and North Korea -- appear interested in nuclear disarmament and arms control at present , " he said . " On the contrary , they are modernizing and building up their nuclear arsenals . " <p> Frydnes said the committee was calling on the five nuclear powers that have signed the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons -- the U.S. , Britain , China , France and Russia -- to take their obligations seriously and that more countries should ratify it . <p> " It is naive to believe our civilization can survive a world order in which global security depends on nuclear weapons , " he said . " The world is not meant to be a prison in which we await collective annihilation . " <p> Tanaka was 13 years old when the U.S. bombed Nagasaki on Aug. 9 , 1945 , three days after detonating the first atomic bomb over Hiroshima . <p> Tanaka , who was at home just a couple of miles from where the bomb hit , said he heard the buzzing sound of a bomber jet and was then " engulfed in a bright , white light . " An intense shock wave followed , crushing his house and others . <p> He saw the full devastation three days later when he and his mother went looking for the families of two of his aunts , who lived closer to ground zero . <p> He found the charred body of one aunt at what remained of her house , along with the body of her grandson , a university student . At his other aunt 's house , his aunt died just before they arrived , while his grandfather was on the verge of death , having been severely burned all over his body . <p> His uncle , who at first had seemed mostly unharmed , later died after leaving the area to seek help . <p> " The deaths I witnessed at that time could hardly be described as human deaths , " Tanaka said . " There were hundreds of people suffering in agony , unable to receive any kind of medical attention . " <p> " I strongly felt that even in war , such killing and maiming must never be allowed to happen . " <p> Tanaka said the average age of atomic bomb survivors is now 85 , and that he hoped the next generation would find ways to build on their advocacy efforts . <p> " I hope that the belief that nuclear weapons can not -- and must not -- co-exist with humanity will take firm hold among citizens of the nuclear weapon states and their allies , " he said , " and that this will become a force for change in the nuclear policies of their governments . " 
@@118741349 <h> Loading .... <p> Palestinians line up to receive free meals at Jabaliya refugee camp in the Gaza Strip on March 18 . Mahmoud Essa/Associated Press <p> UNITED NATIONS -- Humanitarian aid to North Gaza , where Israel launched a ground offensive on Oct. 6 , has largely been blocked for the past 66 days , the United Nations said Tuesday . That has left between 65,000 and 75,000 Palestinians without access to food , water , electricity or health care , according to the world body . <p> In the north , Israel has continued its siege on Beit Lahiya , Beit Hanoun and Jabaliya with Palestinians living there largely denied aid , the U.N . Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs , known as OCHA , said . Recently , it said , about 5,500 people were forcibly displaced from three schools in Beit Lahiya to Gaza City . <p> Adding to the food crisis , only four U.N.-supported bakeries are currently operating throughout the Gaza Strip , all of them in Gaza City , OCHA said . <p> She pointed to the breakdown in law and order and looting that has exacerbated a very dire situation and left the U.N . and many aid organizations unable to deliver food and other humanitarian essentials to hundreds of thousands of Palestinians in need . <p> Kaag said she and other U.N . officials keep repeatedly asking Israel for access for convoys to North Gaza and elsewhere , to allow in commercial goods , to reopen the Rafah crossing from Egypt in the south , and to approve dual-use items . <p> Israel 's U.N . Mission said it had no comment on Kaag 's remarks . <p> The U.N . has established the logistics for an operation across Gaza , she said , but there is no substitute for political will that humanitarians do n't possess . <p> " Member states possess it , " Kaag said . And this is what she urged Security Council members and keeps urging the broader international community to press for -- the political will to address Gaza 's worsening humanitarian crisis . 
@@118754747 <h> Following a vote in the national Senate , Switzerland 's House of Representatives accepted the proposed Hamas ban on Wednesday afternoon by 168 votes to six . <p> A Swiss flag is pictured during the sunrise on the Commercial and Financial District in Geneva , Switzerland , November 23 , 2017 ( photo credit : REUTERS/DENIS BALIBOUSE ) <p> Foreign Minister Gideon Sa'ar congratulated Switzerland for independently designating Hamas as a terrorist organization through primary legislation in a post on X/Twitter on Wednesday . <p> Switzerland has independently designated Hamas as a terrorist organization through primary legislation with overwhelming support . I commend Switzerland for this critical step and urge other nations to follow suit . Hamas is one of the most heinous terror organizations in ... <p> " Switzerland has independently designated Hamas as a terrorist organization through primary legislation with overwhelming support . I commend Switzerland for this critical step and urge other nations to follow suit . Hamas is one of the most heinous terror organizations in history -- it must be recognized as such worldwide , " Sa'ar posted . <p> Swiss media reported that movements to ban Hamas as a terror organization began in 2017 when the Swiss parliament initially called for their ban . The Federal Council halted this action by claiming that Switzerland was " using its contacts with Hamas in Gaza to urge them to comply with international humanitarian law . " <p> Parliament members pushed for a Hamas ban , Swiss media reported Wednesday , noting that they practiced neutrality and had only adopted existing UN bans for sanctioning terrorist organizations , as per local law . <p> Still , Hamas has not officially been designated on the UN 's terror list , leading the central European country to create new legislation to allow for this designation . Though Al Qaeda and the Islamic State were banned , Hamas would need alternative action . <p> Swiss diplomats raised concerns on how the ban could rely on political pressure from partner states . <p> Non-neutral countries banned the terror organization at a quicker speed , with the EU designating Hamas a terrorist organization in 2003 . Those sanctions expanded after the October 7 , 2023 attacks . Israel banned the group immediately after it was founded , and the US and United Kingdom followed in 1997 and 2001 , respectively . <p> Following a vote in the national Senate , Switzerland 's House of Representatives accepted the proposed Hamas ban on Wednesday afternoon by 168 votes to six . <p> Swiss Parliament approved the ban for an initial period of five years with the option to extend . <h> Policy of neutrality <p> Switzerland , which is known for remaining assertively impartial with diplomatic ties and policies , had given Hamas an opportunity to act as a legitimate governing body . After Switzerland committed to a contact policy with the terror organization , the Federal Council justified it as a " Swiss commitment is aimed at preventing violent extremism . " <p> This changed for Swiss parliamentarians following October 7 massacre in Israel . In the largest pogrom against the Jewish people since the Holocaust , Hamas led a deadly assault on Israeli communities , murdering more than 1,200 and taking 250 hostage . More than a year later , 100 captives remain in Gaza . <p> After Hamas made it clear that they had intentions of repeating the brutal assault , Switzerland decided to close the channel for dialogue . The actions were carried out with violent intent , not for peaceful purposes , Swiss officials ruled . 
@@118754755 <p> Former hostage Judith Raanan met with President-elect Donald Trump on Tuesday , calling on him to " do everything to return the 100 hostages home , " the Hostages and Missing Families Forum said . <p> Raanan was the first hostage to be released from Hamas captivity in October of last year . <p> During their meeting , Raanan told Trump about her experience in Gaza captivity . <p> Raanan expressed her trust in the President-elect , asking that he do everything in his power to bring every hostage home -- the living and deceased . <p> Judith and her daughter Natalie , both Israeli-American citizens , were kidnapped from Nahal Oz on October 7 and were released on October 20 . Judith Tai Raanan and her daughter Natalie Shoshana Raanan , US citizens who were taken as hostages by Palestinian Hamas militants , walk while holding hands with Brig. -Gen . ( Ret . ) Gal Hirsch , Israel 's Coordinator for the Captives and Missing , after they were released by the militants . ( credit : Government of Israel/Handout via REUTERS ) <h> ' Bring everyone home ' <p> Within minutes of their return to Israel , President Joe Biden called to congratulate them on their return . <p> " The work has only begun , " Raanan responded , " We must bring everyone home immediately . " 
@@118754757 <h> In his red carpet interview , Isaacs did not comment on the pin . <p> British Jewish actor Jason Isaacs , known for playing the character of Lucius Malfoy in the Harry Potter films , wore a yellow ribbon to the 27th British Independent Film Awards ( BIFA ) in London on Sunday , Kveller reported . <p> In his red carpet interview , Isaacs did not comment on the pin , and the Jewish parenting website noted it was possible the actor was showing support for those impacted by sarcoma or brain cancer , which is represented by a yellow ribbon . <p> Following the October 7 attacks and the kidnapping of more than 250 people from Israel , the yellow ribbon came to represent the campaign to bring the hostages home . Today , 100 hostages remain captive in Gaza , about half of which are believed to be alive . <p> Isaacs also donned a yellow ribbon while attending The National Lottery New Year 's Eve Big Bash event in London on December 4 . <p> When asked by an interviewer at the event to complete the sentence , " 2025 is the year that ... , " Isaacs said , " 2025 , I hope , is the year that peace breaks out . " Jason Isaacs . ( credit : Wikimedia Commons ) <p> The actor , who also narrated the Holocaust documentary " Out of the Darkness " and starred in the television show Dig created by Israeli filmmaker Gideon Raff , has family members who made aliyah from England in the 1980s . <p> Digwas filmed in Jerusalem until Operation Protective Edge broke out in 2014 , and Isaacs previously talked about how magical it was to be shooting in Jerusalem . <p> " The fact is the story 's about Jerusalem . Everyone knows that it 's the most controversial piece of real estate in the history of mankind , " he said . " And if you do n't know that before you go there , you know that as soon as you get there . And that 's what our story 's about . It not only affected how we shot , it defined what our story is . " <h> Filming in Israel <p> While filming in 2014 , Isaacs previously tweeted that if people do n't think he should be in Israel telling stories , they do n't know the story or why he 's telling it and that he does this work not for money or to oppress others , but always to connect . <p> Isaacs said residents would be curious about their filming , as the actors would shoot chase scenes running across peoples ' rooftops or courtyards . <p> " We 'd be shooting early in the morning , and a door would open , so you 'd be worried you 'd woken a resident , and people would come out with trays of mint tea and biscuits , " he said . " Anywhere we went , we were welcomed . " 
@@118764359 <p> In an interview with Vanity Fair , the Democratic National Committee chair contender calls for a " dramatic upgrade " to the party 's communications strategy , which he believes can be made if Democrats stop letting Republicans tell their story . <p> Ben Wikler speaks during the WisDems 2024 State Convention on June 08 , 2024 in Milwaukee , Wisconsin.by Daniel Boczarski/Getty Images for The Democratic Party of Wisconsin . <p> Over the past five years , Ben Wikler has helped pry Wisconsin from Republican dominance at the state level . Under his leadership as chair of the state party , Democrats have maintained the governorship , made gains in the state legislature , broken conservative control of the state Supreme Court , and undone the rigged maps that seemed -- at one time -- to practically guarantee a GOP stranglehold on the state 's politics . <p> Donald Trump won back the Dairy State this year after losing it in 2020 . But Wikler still counts his state as one of the silver linings for Democrats in a tough election cycle : Though the Republican won out , Kamala Harris won more votes there than Joe Biden did four years earlier . <p> Wikler , 43 , is now running to head the Democratic National Committee -- at a time of low morale , disillusionment with current leadership , and uncertainty as to where it goes from here . How would he lead the Democrats out of the political wilderness ? " We have to do a lot of building , " Wikler told me , in a conversation that has been edited for clarity and length . <p> " This is a time , " he said , " that calls on us to be really clear about what our values are . " <p> Vanity Fair : Trump 's victory , particularly in the popular vote , came as a shock to some who saw a lot of momentum on Harris 's side , including some really encouraging polling , and stumbles by Trump . But Democrats , especially within the Harris campaign , have indicated in some autopsies that the result was n't all that surprising and maybe even was inevitable , given the numbers they were seeing and the headwinds they were facing . What was your reaction on election night ? Were you caught off guard , or did you have a sense that this was where things might be headed ? <p> Ben Wikler : Before the election , reporters asked what kept me up at night . And my answer was always that there might be Trump voters out there who were not in our model and were not in our polling who nonetheless turned out . And that is what happened . Our sense -- in Wisconsin specifically -- was that there was enormous momentum on our side . And that was real . We actually turned out more voters for Harris than we did for Biden . And yet the surge on the GOP side overtopped Harris 's enormous showing . <p> One thing that was striking was that a lot of the more than 50,000 people who turned out for Trump did n't vote in the Senate race , and so we wound up with Tammy Baldwin winning reelection at the same time Trump won our state because of Republicans who did n't fill out the full ballot . And I think that speaks to the impact of having a coordinated campaign in Wisconsin , where we were working to elect Democrats up and down the ticket . <p> I felt , even when the polls closed , that we were gon na win . The first numbers that we saw coming in , where we were adding votes in county after county , felt pretty good . But there were enough additional Trump voters showing up in place after place that we lost by less than one percentage point in Wisconsin . <p> So what went wrong ? Obviously , you do n't lose an election for just one reason . But what do you see as some of the big factors that led to Trump winning -- again , not just the Electoral College , as he did in 2016 , but a narrow popular-vote victory ? <p> What was striking is that we lost even more in places where neither side campaigned than we did in the places where both sides campaigned . And the number that just jumps out and smacks me in the face is that Democrats lost the majority of voters who make less than $50,000 a year for the first time in my lifetime . I think the experience that people have of financial support that they got during the pandemic slipping away , and then prices going up , created -- especially for a lot of working-class voters around the country , across race and ethnicity and geography -- a sense that the economy was n't working for them . And Democrats kept saying the economy was great , so they voted for change . Where Harris did campaign the most , her message that we needed to bring prices down , and support working people , helped to blunt that erosion . But it 's clear that if you put some of the different data side by side , you see the people who felt like they were struggling economically , said they were hurt most by inflation , and were paying the least attention to the news and hearing the least from the campaigns , were the people we lost the most . And that tells us that it 's both the lived economic reality that a lot of these voters experienced and the fact that we were n't communicating in places that actually reach them . <p> So as Democrats , I think one really clear next step is going to the places where these voters actually are making sense of the world around them . That includes a lot of new media sources . That includes thinking more deeply about your friend-to-friend communication ; so much of our country 's attention has shifted from public social media platforms to group chats . It means the new world of YouTube and streaming video and vertical video . And it means digging across all the states for these next four years , because there 's gon na be critical races downballot , like the Wisconsin Supreme Court race this spring , and House seats that Trump has plucked people out of , and then New Jersey and Virginia this fall . We need a strategy in every state that includes both person-to-person organizing and also communicating in a way that shows voters -- working-class voters -- that we are fighting for them and we 're on their side . <p> Is it more of a communication problem , or is there a problem with what is being communicated ? Do you think that there are policies that voters are n't connecting with , or is it simply that voters are n't hearing the message or do n't know what the Democrats are doing ? <p> I mean , a lot of voters are only hearing about Democrats from Republicans , and when that 's the case , they 'll always get the most Republican caricature that Republicans can muster . So there 's a significant challenge to make sure Democrats are telling their own story . <p> We also know that there are a lot of folks who watch the wealth of the ultrawealthy skyrocket that feel like they 're taking it on the chin . And Trump 's about to try to pass a multitrillion-dollar tax cut for the richest people in the world , and Democrats can fight against that and fight for progressive taxation and an economy that works for everyone in a way that makes clear what their values are and whose side Trump is on . And that fight next year could be an analog to the fight against the repeal of the Affordable Care Act , which wound up being a really definitive fight before the 2018 midterms . <p> So when you think about what needs to be done to ensure the viability of the party going forward , do you see it as more of a tweak or more of a major overhaul ? <p> There are things that have worked that we should keep . But we need a dramatic upgrade to be able to communicate everywhere and not cede huge chunks of the country . The Democratic brand is broken , and is a drag to people in many parts of the country . And it 's broken because we have n't built the kind of infrastructure that allows us to communicate at the scale and intensity that can change the brand . So in order to change that , we have to do a lot of building , and that , to me , is the heart of the challenge . We have to be able to convincingly show voters that we 're here to make a difference in their lives , not to pursue some kind of extraneous agenda . <p> I want to ask about Biden 's legacy . This time a year ago , he was obviously struggling in polls and there was anger building over Gaza . But he also had this domestic record to brag about , the Republican opposition that was obstructing a lot of what he wanted to do seemed in utter chaos , and he was also the guy who made Trump a one-term president . But he 's about to hand the reins back to Trump . Republicans have this governing trifecta at the national level . And there 's elements of his record that are facing a lot more scrutiny , even among some Democrats . How do you think we will , and how do you think we should , remember the Biden presidency ? <p> It 's clear that President Biden at every step is fighting to make the biggest change to rebuild the middle class and fight for a better future for the country . This is the chapter of the story that , you know , opens a lot of questions that in some ways we 're going to need the benefit of history and hindsight to have clear answers . So my focus right now is , what do we do in this next chapter ? How do we organize ? How do we fight back and how do we make clear to folks who express their frustration through their votes that we see why they 're frustrated and are the ones fighting for those changes ? <p> On that note , Democrats are looking at two years until they can change the makeup of Congress , four years until they can win back the White House . Until then , how do they approach a second Trump presidency ? What does resistance -- to use a loaded term -- look like in 2024 compared with 2016 ? <p> Most Americans want an economy that works for working people , and they want the fundamental dignity and freedom of each person to be respected and honored by their government . And we know that Trump is about to lurch wildly into far-right , plutocratic attacks on the core values of the country . I think it 's critical to fight back on the basis of our values and fight for working people , and that will mean opposing often multitrillion-dollar tax cuts that Trump wants to push forward . I think that Trump is going to try to cow people into prematurely submitting because of his threats to weaponize the Department of Justice , and appointments like Kash Patel . And I think that this is a time that calls on us to be really clear about what our values are , and to fight for those values in a way that voters can see -- in a way that 's not about Trump , but actually about the voters themselves . Acting with that kind of integrity is both important in terms of the impact directly and also as good politics . <p> So more the case for their values , as opposed to making Trump the focus ? <p> The central focus should be on voters themselves and their lives . The key fights are not about Trump 's latest tweet . They 're about offices that could take away health care for veterans or destroy the security that kids have knowing they 'll be able to have lunch when they go to school . The Trump proposals that undermine the kind of country that most Americans want to live in are the ones that we should bring the most focus and energy to fighting back against . <h> Eric Lutz <h> Contributing Editor <p> Eric Lutz is a contributing editor at Vanity Fair , where he has been covering national affairs since 2018 . He chronicles the chaos of Trump era politics , reporting on the issues , ideas , and personalities driving the day . He has also written for publications like The Guardian and Rolling Stone , and serves ... Read more 
@@118764553 <p> The main commander of the Syrian fighters who deposed strongman Bashar al-Assad said Wednesday that anyone involved in the torture and killing of people Assad detained during his iron-fisted rule would be hunted down , with pardons out of the question . <p> " We will pursue them in Syria , and we ask countries to hand over those who fled so we can achieve justice , " Abu Mohammed al-Jolani said in a statement published on the Syrian state TV 's Telegram channel . <p> Jolani 's vow to extract revenge against Assad 's lieutenants of torture and death came as the world is watching to see if Syria 's new rulers can stabilize the country after civil war fought for nearly 14 years along sectarian and ethnic lines has left it in shambles . <p> Mohammed al-Bashir , the man installed by Jolani 's fighters to lead an interim administration through March 1 , pleaded with millions of refugees to return home , create unity and provide basic services . But rebuilding is a daunting proposition with little funding on hand . <p> " We have no foreign currency , and as for loans and bonds , we are still collecting data . So yes , financially we are very bad , " said Bashir , who previously ran a small rebel-led administration in a pocket of northwestern Syria . <p> FILE - Mohammed al-Bashir holds a press conference in the rebel-held northwestern Syrian city of Idlib on Nov. 28 , 2024 . <p> But Bashir said the Islamist-led alliance that ousted Assad will guarantee the rights of all religious groups . <p> " Precisely because we are Islamic , we will guarantee the rights of all people and all sects in Syria , " Bashir said . <p> More than 500,000 people were killed in the war , with more than half the population forced to flee their homes . About 6 million Syrians sought refuge abroad . <p> Bashir pleaded with those who fled the violence to return home . In his interview with Corriere della Sera , he said , " Syria is now a free country that has earned its pride and dignity . Come back . " <p> Foreign officials are warily engaging with the former rebels , part of the former al-Qaida affiliate Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , which remains designated as a terrorist organization by the United States , the United Nations , the European Union and others . <p> U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said the new government must " uphold clear commitments to fully respect the rights of minorities , facilitate the flow of humanitarian assistance to all in need , prevent Syria from being used as a base for terrorism or posing a threat to its neighbors . " <p> U.N . Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said , " It 's our duty to do everything to support different Syrian leaders in order to make sure that they come together , they are able to guarantee a smooth transition . " <p> But the U.N . ' s Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs said the security situation in Syria remains volatile . The agency said it has found more than 50 minefields over the past 10 days , which is curtailing the movement of civilians and impeding the delivery of goods and services . <p> Meanwhile , Russia , which had supported Assad 's fight against the rebels and now has granted him asylum , said Wednesday it is closely monitoring the situation in Syria and is in contact with " those who are currently controlling the situation . " <p> FILE - Russian President Vladimir Putin , right , listens to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad during their meeting at the Kremlin in Moscow , Russia , March 15 , 2023 . <p> Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov highlighted Russia 's need to ensure the security of its diplomatic facilities and its military bases in Syria , where Russian troops were based for years supporting the Syrian military in the country 's civil war . <p> Assad 's fall also dealt a blow to Iran 's interests in the region , cutting off a land delivery route for weapons to the Iran-backed Hezbollah militant group in Lebanon , as well as territory in which Iranian militias could operate . <p> Iran 's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei on Wednesday rejected the idea of a weakened Iranian network in the region , which includes its support of Hamas militants in the Gaza Strip , militias in Iraq and Houthi militants in Yemen . <p> Khamenei also said what happened in Syria was the result of a U.S.-Israeli plan , and that a " neighboring state " of Syria played a role in Assad 's ouster . He did not name the <p> neighboring country , but Turkey , which borders Syria , was a main supporter of groups that opposed Assad . <p> As Syrians work to establish the future of their country , Pope Francis said Wednesday he hoped for a political solution that promotes " the stability and unity of the country . " <p> " I pray ... that the Syrian people may live in peace and security in their beloved land and the different religions may walk together in friendship and mutual respect for the good of that nation afflicted by so many years of war , " he said . <p> Some information for this report was provided by The Associated Press , Agence France-Presse and Reuters . <p> The Voice of America provides news and information in more than 40 languages to an estimated weekly audience of over 326 million people . Stories with the VOA News byline are the work of multiple VOA journalists and may contain information from wire service reports . 
@@118764554 <h> Follow Us <h> Blinken travels to Mideast as Syria navigates post-Assad path <p> U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken looks on ahead of the start of the 31st Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe Ministerial summit , in Ta'Qali , Malta , Dec. 5 , 2024 . Blinken is heading to Jordan and Turkey on Dec. 11 , to discuss an aligned vision for Syria . <p> Share <p> Blinken travels to Mideast as Syria navigates post-Assad path <p> share <p> WASHINGTON -- <p> U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken departed Wednesday for Jordan and later Turkey , seeking to rally regional countries around a common vision for Syria 's future following the ousting of longtime authoritarian ruler Bashar al-Assad . <p> Blinken is scheduled to visit Aqaba , Jordan , and Ankara , Turkey , where he will meet with leaders from key Arab and Muslim countries to discuss developments in Syria , Israel , Gaza , Lebanon and the broader region , according to the U.S. State Department . <p> A spokesperson said Blinken aims to secure consensus among regional leaders on key principles for Syria 's post-Assad transition . He said these include full respect for minority rights , the facilitation of humanitarian aid , the prevention of Syria becoming a haven for terrorism or a threat to its neighbors and the securing and safe destruction of chemical or biological weapons stockpiles . <p> Blinken has said that the United States will recognize a Syrian government that upholds those principles . <p> Speaking before the House Foreign Affairs Committee on Wednesday , Blinken said he believes President-elect Donald Trump 's incoming administration will have an interest in preserving the gains made toward eliminating the " territorial caliphate " that the terror group known as Islamic State had established in Syria . <p> Trump and his team have said that the U.S. should not get involved in Syria . <p> " This is not our fight . Let it play out , " Trump wrote December 7 on Truth Social . <p> During a hearing earlier Wednesday that lasted more than four hours , Blinken told lawmakers , " If Syria goes the other way -- if it fragments -- we 're likely to see more mass migrations . We 're likely to see more places in Syria that become centers for terrorism and extremism , none of which is in our interest . " <p> In Aqaba , Blinken will meet with Jordan 's King Abdulla II and senior officials to discuss bilateral issues , highlight the U.S.-Jordan strategic partnership , and reaffirm U.S. support for regional stability . <p> In Ankara , Blinken will engage with senior Turkish officials to strengthen bilateral cooperation on shared priorities , including counterterrorism and regional stability , with NATO ally Turkey . <p> Some analysts argue that there is a strategic rationale , at least for now , in maintaining the current U.S. presence of about 900 U.S. troops in Syria to contain IS and prevent a resurgence of terrorist groups in the region . <p> " But getting involved in a major way is probably contrary to American interests . And of course , we really have n't been involved in a major way in Syria from the beginning of the civil war . You know , over a decade ago , " said Thomas Graham , a former U.S. diplomat and now a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations . <p> On Tuesday , Blinken held talks with counterparts from Jordan , the United Arab Emirates , Qatar and Egypt , where he reiterated the need for a Syrian-led transition . <p> Meanwhile , on Thursday , the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons , or OPCW , will hold an emergency session to address the situation in Syria . The OPCW -- the implementing body for the 1997 Chemical Weapons Convention -- said it is monitoring Syria with " special attention " to chemical weapons sites and has reminded the country of its duty to declare and destroy all banned weapons . <p> The U.S. State Department said it will await the session 's outcome to determine the next steps . <p> Syrian rebel leader Abu Mohammed al-Golani said on Wednesday that he would dissolve the security forces of the ousted Assad regime . He also said his group was working with international organizations to identify and secure possible sites where chemical weapons may be stored . <p> A boy holding a rifle borrowed from a Syrian opposition fighter poses on the top of a government forces tank that was left on a street , at the Umayyad Square in Damascus , Syria , Dec. 11 , 2024 . <p> Also , U.S. President Joe Biden will join leaders of the Group of Seven leading industrial nations in a virtual summit on Friday to discuss Syria and other pressing issues in the Middle East . <p> Last Sunday , Syrian rebel groups toppled the Assad regime after a swift offensive of under two weeks , ending a decades-long reign of brutal oppression . <p> While many Syrians celebrate Assad 's departure , uncertainty looms over the nation 's future . The Islamist group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , the dominant faction among opposition forces , is rapidly consolidating power . At the same time , foreign actors are vying for influence with the nascent government or seeking to limit its potential as a security threat . <p> Gerald Feierstein , director of the Arabian Peninsula Affairs Program at the Middle East Institute , told VOA , " The Turks are far more sympathetic to political Islam , and have longstanding ties to Hayat Tahrir al-Sham and to Golani -- not close , but they do have ties . ... For the Gulf states , they 're going to be far more suspicious about which direction Damascus is going to be going . " <p> Feierstein noted that while there is currently " not a big gap " between Turkish and Gulf perspectives , this difference could widen over time if the new government in Damascus adopts a more hardline Islamist stance than expected . <p> Syria 's nearly 14-year civil war claimed 500,000 lives and displaced half of its 23 million prewar population . Millions of Syrians fled to neighboring countries such as Jordan , Turkey , Iraq and Lebanon , with many continuing their journey to Europe in search of safety . 
@@118785959 <h> Microsoft 's Recall AI is creepy , clever , and compelling <h> Microsoft 's Recall AI is creepy , clever , and compelling <h> I 've been testing the controversial Recall feature and I 'm still not sure if I love it or hate it . <p> ByTom Warren , a senior editor and author of Notepad , who has been covering all things Microsoft , PC , and tech for over 20 years . <p> Dec 12 , 2024 , 6:00 PM UTC <h> Share this story <p> Image : Microsoft <p> I honestly thought I 'd hate Microsoft 's controversial Recall feature and immediately disable it , but after using it for the past couple of weeks , I 've been both creeped out and impressed with what it 's capable of . <p> Recall , a Windows 11 feature that takes snapshots of mostly everything you see on your screen , quickly became a controversy earlier this year after Microsoft announced it . Privacy advocates immediately started warning about potential issues with Recall without even using it , and security researchers found big holes in a prerelease version of the feature . Microsoft delayed Recall multiple times to give the company more time to address the security issues , and it 's now in testing for Windows Insiders ahead of a broader rollout next year . <p> The first thing I noticed about Recall is that the initial setup experience is very clunky and feels unfinished . You launch the app , and it redirects you to Windows Update , where AI models will start downloading and installing . Once you 've installed a trio of these , it looks like the install process is complete -- but then Windows Update will find another component of Recall to install . After fiddling around for 10 minutes , Recall will finally offer up a setup experience that allows you to enable or disable snapshots . <p> Snapshots are the key part of how Recall works , and they form the foundation of a scrollable timeline that lets you jump back through everything you 've seen . They 're essentially screenshots of what you were working on , much like how your browser history is stored in a web browser . But critically , a screenshot of your entire screen has a lot more information . <p> When I first started scrolling through the Recall timeline , it freaked me out . My emails were recorded , my Slack messages with colleagues were snapshotted , and photos from a recent vacation all went into Recall 's database . Even drafts of dumb tweets I did n't send were captured by Recall . It honestly felt a little creepy to scroll through my digital life like this . <p> I immediately removed Slack from being added to Recall and deleted its relevant snapshots . Microsoft makes it easy to exclude an app from Recall in settings but also just to remove snapshots for specific apps at a later date . You can select a snapshot from the search interface of Recall and remove the associated app or even websites . <p> Once I 'd gotten over the creepy aspect of Recall and changed some settings , I mostly forgot about the feature for a few days and let it do its thing of snapshotting my laptop until two things happened that really surprised me . <p> Over the past couple of weeks , I 've been doing some Christmas shopping , and I found the perfect gift for my partner and then immediately started searching around different stores for availability and pricing . I eventually got distracted and forgot to order the gift . A few days later , after I 'd closed the tabs that I was using to search for the gift , I was trying to find it again . I headed into Chrome 's browsing history to find the website I 'd seen with the best price , but I had searched through multiple retailers , so it was impossible to find the exact site without opening nearly 20 tabs and searching through manually again . <p> I pulled up Recall instead and searched just for " ? 85 " on a whim , the best price I remember seeing for the item . Before I could blink , there it was , immediately in the Recall search interface . It did n't take Recall minutes or even seconds ; it was as instant as a Google search result . It was honestly surprising to see how fast this Recall search works , especially given Windows search features have only gotten worse over the years . <p> Recall also helped me review the social media accounts of the suspect in the killing of UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson . After the suspect was named , social media companies started removing profiles , but because I was browsing them with Recall , it stored them all on my PC before they vanished . I was able to scroll through the snapshots without having to rely on an online archiving service . As a journalist , I often have to screenshot tweets just in case someone deletes them , and Recall is just sitting there doing the work for me in case I forget . <p> Recall also lets you copy text or images from these snapshots it creates or , if it 's a website , you can just revisit the website again . Most of the time , this works well , but I have plenty of snapshots where Recall simply does n't recognize the text or let me copy it fully . There have also been times when I 've searched for something I remember seeing and Recall did n't store it , so it 's not recording literally everything you 've seen . <p> While I 've found some early examples of Recall helping me out , I still need more time to figure out whether I want to keep it enabled . As impressive as it is , I 'm still wary of storing a digital trail like this on my laptop . I 'm also waiting to see if security researchers are happy with Microsoft 's big Recall changes . One of the main changes means authenticating with Windows Hello every time you want to use Recall , which can be a little annoying right now . But if it keeps Recall secure , then I ca n't really complain too much about this minor inconvenience . <p> It 's also important to note here that Recall will only be available on Copilot Plus PCs , so unless you 've purchased one of these new laptops over the past six months , you wo n't be able to access this new feature . There 's been a lot of FUD , largely from YouTubers , about how Microsoft is supposedly secretly planning to install Recall on every Windows 11 PC , but that 's simply not accurate . Recall is one of the headline features of Copilot Plus PCs and requires a dedicated NPU to run efficiently . <p> I 'm now hoping that the new AI-powered changes to Windows Search will be as useful as Recall , without requiring snapshots of your PC . Microsoft is promising to launch a similar natural language search to the main search interface on Windows , allowing you to find files and documents without needing to know file names or search for pictures using words . If my experience with Recall is anything to go by , it should make finding files a breeze . <p> As I 've started to rely more on Recall for searches , there have also been times I 've been using my desktop PC and wished I had access to it . Microsoft is tying its new Windows AI features to NPUs , and we have n't seen Intel or AMD lean into desktop CPUs that have Copilot Plus compatibility yet . I hope that changes soon because , as much as I 'm not a fan of generative AI features that create images of people with six fingers , using AI to improve the daily tasks of searching for things on my PC is a far more compelling part of the future of Windows . <h> A Microsoft employee resigns with a protest over military contracts <p> A software engineer quit Microsoft last week with a protest email that encouraged coworkers to sign a petition against Microsoft 's partnerships with the Israeli military and government . <p> Angela Yu 's email hit the inboxes of hundreds or thousands of Microsoft employees , but I understand from multiple sources that the email did n't go companywide . It appears that Yu identified email distribution lists with hundreds or thousands of employees in each of them , allowing her to get her message out widely without having to seek the usual approvals to email colleagues in bulk . <p> " I joined Microsoft with the belief that my work will advance technology for ' the good of humanity , ' " Yu wrote in her December 4th email . " However , some of Microsoft 's business policies and recent actions against my colleagues make me wonder if the company is staying true to its own principles . I 'm especially concerned about the reports from this year that disclose Microsoft products like Azure are powering military weapons platforms responsible for killing tens of thousands of people . " <p> Yu also referenced Microsoft firing two employees earlier this year after they held a vigil outside of Microsoft 's headquarters for Palestinians killed in Gaza . Much like Yu 's email , the protest called out Microsoft 's dealings with Israel and the Israel-Hamas war . Ben Hope , a Microsoft spokesperson , said that Microsoft " communicated our policies clearly to event organizers " and requested that the event occur off campus . <p> " We have emphasized that we are committed to a professional and respectful work environment , providing various channels for employee voices . However , disruptions to business operations are not allowed , " Hope said . <h> The pad : <p> Cruise 's demise will cost Microsoft $800 million . Microsoft says it will " record an impairment charge of approximately $800 million in the second quarter of fiscal year 2025 " that 's tied to GM 's decision to pull funding for Cruise 's robotaxi service . Microsoft first invested in Cruise in 2021 , and in return , Cruise used Azure to help speed up the commercialization of autonomous vehicles and manage its robotaxi fleet . <p> Microsoft starts testing iPhone file sharing for Windows PCs . Microsoft has started testing some improvements to its Phone Link app for iPhone users that make it a lot easier to share files from an iPhone to a PC and vice versa . The Phone Link app is still far better when paired with an Android device , but it 's good to see that Microsoft has n't given up on trying to work around Apple 's various iOS restrictions . <p> Xbox tests streaming your Xbox games to your Xbox . Xbox Insiders can now try out streaming some Xbox games they own to their Xbox consoles this week . It 's part of an expansion of the buy and stream initiative that Microsoft kicked off last month on the web , and it means you could play an Xbox game on your console without ever having to download it . You 'll still need Xbox Game Pass Ultimate to access Xbox Cloud Gaming , though . <p> Microsoft wants to make the Xbox app the home of PC gaming . Microsoft has started updating its Xbox app with a new homescreen and more than 400 games that were n't previously available in the app . It 's part of a broader effort to make the Xbox app a lot more friendly to PC games and surface Xbox Play Anywhere games that can be purchased and played across both PC and console . I 'm expecting Microsoft to also start listing Steam games in this Xbox app in the future , making it a hub for all your games , regardless of where you 've purchased them from . <p> Microsoft AI 's CEO poaches former Google DeepMind colleagues for a new AI health unit . The Financial Times reports that Mustafa Suleyman , cofounder of Google DeepMind , has now hired multiple former colleagues to help run a new AI health unit at Microsoft . The former head of DeepMind 's health unit , Dominic King , has been hired as vice president of Microsoft AI 's new London-based health team . Microsoft has confirmed the effort , and as Suleyman is focused on consumer AI efforts , it will be interesting to see exactly where this goes . If you know anything , drop me a line at notepad@theverge.com . <p> Microsoft is giving Copilot a new taskbar UI and keyboard shortcut on Windows . Copilot has gone through a lot of changes on Windows over the past year , and it 's changing once again . After demoting Copilot to a Progressive Web App ( PWA ) earlier this year , Microsoft is now rolling out an update to Windows testers that replaces the PWA version of Copilot with a " native " experience that includes a new keyboard shortcut and quick-view UI . I say " native " because this is n't really a Windows app ; it 's just a web app wrapped up to look more native to Windows . The new quick view floats above the taskbar , much like Microsoft 's new Companion apps , and can be triggered with a new Alt + Space keyboard shortcut . <p> Microsoft AI chief Mustafa Suleyman says conversational AI is the next web browser . Verge editor-in-chief Nilay Patel sat down with Microsoft 's AI CEO recently to discuss his time at the software giant , how he defines AGI , and the complicated relationship between Microsoft and OpenAI . It 's an hour-long conversation that 's well worth tuning in to . <p> Another Microsoft 365 outage knocks web apps offline . Microsoft had another major Microsoft 365 outage earlier this week , the second in two weeks . This time , web apps like Outlook and Teams were impacted , and Microsoft recommended that businesses turn to desktop apps to access data and documents while the outage was ongoing . Hopefully we do n't enter a third week of Microsoft 365 outages . <p> Windows 11 's 24H2 update now works with more Ubisoft games . Microsoft stopped offering 24H2 to gamers with certain Ubisoft games installed recently , but it 's now opening the door for players of Avatar : Frontiers of Pandora and Star Wars Outlaws . Microsoft is applying a " temporary " patch to get the games running again , but Assassin 's Creed games like Valhalla are still affected , and systems with these titles remain blocked from upgrading . <p> Microsoft has created an Xbox 360 Red Ring of Death ugly sweater . Microsoft employees spotted an " Xbox 360 glitch holiday sweater " at the employee-only company store earlier this week . It includes a power button that illuminates green , and there 's even an interchangeable module that produces the Red Ring of Death . It sold out within hours , and it does n't look like Microsoft is going to be selling this particular item outside of just Microsoft employees . <p> Microsoft hires Captain America to sell AI-powered laptops . Microsoft is stepping up its Copilot Plus PC marketing with a new ad for the upcoming Captain America : Brave New World movie . The 60-second spot features Danny Ramirez 's Joaquin Torres ( Falcon ) using a Surface Laptop 7 with Paint 's Cocreator AI mode to generate images . Microsoft has been running similar TV ads in recent weeks , claiming that its Qualcomm-powered laptops are somehow " the fastest ... Windows PCs ever . " <p> Microsoft loses a key Windows executive . Shilpa Ranganathan , who spent more than 16 years at Microsoft in various Windows roles , is now returning to Expedia as chief product officer . Ranganathan managed a team responsible for Microsoft Launcher and the company 's cross-device efforts in 2018 . Ranganathan most recently served as a member of the senior leadership team of Windows and was focused on the product management and engineering of the Windows Shell , AI Copilot , and developer platform and experiences . <p> Microsoft Surface rumors point to a big Copilot Plus refresh next year . Microsoft is rumored to be updating its Surface lineup for 2025 with Intel Lunar Lake-based Copilot Plus PCs . Windows Central reports that the Surface Laptop Studio is due an upgrade to make it Copilot Plus-compatible and that Microsoft is preparing Intel Lunar Lake versions of the Surface Laptop and Surface Pro , too . Microsoft loves to hold Surface events in the spring or fall , so we could be looking at some announcements in the coming months . <p> Microsoft joins Bluesky and immediately nerds out . Microsoft managed to join Bluesky in style last week . The first post included an image of the Windows XP Bliss wallpaper and a pun about blue skies , but Microsoft even backdated this post to its founding date of April 4th , 1975 , using Bluesky 's AT Protocol . That 's the kind of nerdery that Bluesky users appreciate . If you 're on Bluesky , you can find me @tomwarren.co.uk . <p> Google asks the FTC to kill Microsoft 's exclusive cloud deal with OpenAI . Google has reportedly asked the Federal Trade Commission to break up Microsoft 's exclusive agreement to host OpenAI 's technology on Azure . The Information reports that the FTC conversation took place as part of a broader investigation into Microsoft 's cloud business . Google has also been lobbying regulators in Europe to put pressure on Microsoft 's Azure pricing and licensing . As I 've written before , Microsoft and Google are very much at war again . <p> Microsoft ends Surface Studio 2 Plus production with no successor in sight . Microsoft has quietly ended production of its Surface Studio 2 Plus all-in-one PC two years after introducing the latest model . It now looks like the end of the road for Microsoft 's innovative Surface Studio , once considered the ultimate all-in-one Windows device . While the Surface Studio was always an expensive and niche device , there was nothing else quite like it on the market . I 'm still holding out hope that Microsoft might one day release a standalone folding and transforming screen so we can turn any laptop or PC into a Surface Studio . <p> You can now try Microsoft 's Recall AI feature on Intel and AMD Copilot Plus PCs . After opening up Recall to Qualcomm-powered Copilot Plus PCs last month , Microsoft has expanded the testing pool to Intel- and AMD-powered Copilot Plus devices . It has also enabled some of the first Windows AI features on these x86 laptops , so I 'd expect these will start rolling out beyond Windows Insiders soon . <p> Microsoft kills off suggested actions in Windows 11 . Suggested actions were added to Windows 11 to surface phone numbers or dates in the OS and let you quickly take actions on them . Now , Microsoft says this underused feature is being " deprecated and will be removed in a future Windows 11 update . " <p> The Windows 11 system tray might get an emoji button soon . I 'm not sure who is asking for an emoji button to clutter up the system tray , but Microsoft 's latest Windows 11 builds reference the potential for one soon . Hopefully this can be fully disabled easily . <p> Xbox is sponsoring Luke " The Nuke " Littler . If , like me , you 're a fan of darts , then this is a marketing crossover you might have seen coming . Luke Littler , who hit the headlines as a 16-year-old prodigy last year at the World Darts Championship , is now sponsored by Xbox for the same tournament this year . Littler plays FIFA and Fortnite on his Xbox and regularly speaks about wanting to get back to his Xbox after matches -- so this seems like the ideal pairing . <p> Thanks for subscribing and reading to the very end . As we 're nearly at the end of 2024 , this will be my last issue until the new year . I 'm taking a two-week break over the Christmas period , before the CES shenanigans begin . I 'm not expecting big news from Microsoft directly at CES , but I 'm sure some of its software will appear in some unusual places in January . Stay tuned for more of that next year , and thanks for reading all my work throughout 2024 . <p> If you 've heard about any of Microsoft 's other secret projects , you can reach me via email at notepad@theverge.com or speak to me confidentially on the Signal messaging app , where I 'm tomwarren.01 . I 'm also tomwarren on Telegram , if you 'd prefer to chat there . 
@@118787755 <p> An Israeli airstrike flattened a multistory building in central Gaza , killing at least 25 people and wounding dozens more , according to Palestinian medical officials , after strikes Thursday across the Gaza Strip killed at least 28 others . <p> The latest deadly strike hit the Nuseirat refugee camp just hours after President Biden 's national security advisor , Jake Sullivan , told reporters in Jerusalem that the recent cease-fire between Israel and the militant group Hezbollah in Lebanon has helped clear the way for a potential deal to end the war in Gaza between Israel and Hamas . <p> Images from the Gaza blast showed a collapsed building with people walking through its mangled and charred remains , smoke rising from piles of belongings strewn over the rubble . <p> Advertisement <p> Officials at two Gaza hospitals , Al Awda Hospital in the north and the central Al Aqsa Martyrs Hospital , reported receiving a combined total of 25 bodies from the strike . Palestinian medics said more than 40 people , mostly children , were being treated at the hospitals . Al Aqsa hospital said that the Israeli attack also damaged several nearby houses in Nuseirat . <p> There was no immediate comment from the Israeli military on the strike . Israel is trying to eliminate Hamas militants , whom Israel says hide among Gaza 's civilian population . <p> Among other strikes were two that killed 15 men who were part of local committees established to secure aid convoys . The committees were set up by displaced Palestinians in coordination with the Hamas-run Interior Ministry . The Nasser Hospital in the southern city of Khan Yunis received the bodies and an Associated Press reporter counted them . The hospital said eight had been killed in a strike near the southern border town of Rafah and seven others in a strike 30 minutes later near Khan Yunis . <p> Advertisement <p> The Israel-Hamas war in Gaza began when the militant group attacked southern Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , killing about 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and abducting around 250 people . About 100 hostages are still in Gaza , at least a third of whom are believed to be dead . <p> Israel 's offensive has killed more than 44,800 Palestinians in Gaza , more than half of them women and children , according to the Gaza Health Ministry , which does not distinguish between civilians and combatants . The Israeli military says it has killed more than 17,000 militants , without providing evidence . <p> The fighting has plunged Gaza into a severe humanitarian crisis , with experts warning of famine . Israel says it allows enough aid to enter and blames U.N . agencies for not distributing it . The United Nations says Israeli restrictions , and the breakdown of law and order after Israel repeatedly targeted the Hamas-run police force , make it extremely difficult to operate in the territory . <p> Syria now searches for a new identity , as Damascus residents face a future without President Bashar Assad . <p> Dec. 9 , 2024 <h> U.S. official says truce in Lebanon may help seal Gaza cease-fire <p> Sullivan , Biden 's security advisor , has dismissed speculation that Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu was waiting for President-elect Donald Trump to take office to finalize a cease-fire deal . He said the U.S. believes three American hostages are still alive in Gaza , but it 's hard to know for sure . <p> He plans to travel next to Qatar and Egypt -- key mediators in the cease-fire talks -- as the Biden administration makes its final push on negotiations . <p> He also said during a trip to Jerusalem that " the balance of power in the Middle East has changed significantly " since the Hamas attack on Israel , especially with the overthrow of Syrian President Bashar Assad , a key ally of Hezbollah and Iran . <p> " We are now faced with a dramatically reshaped Middle East in which Israel is stronger , Iran is weaker , its proxies decimated , and a cease-fire that is new and will be lasting in Lebanon that ensures Israel 's security over the long term , " he said . <h> Blinken urges players in Syria to avoid steps that could lead to violence <p> U.S. Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken is urging the many players in Syria to avoid taking any steps that could lead to further violence . <p> Blinken spoke to reporters in Jordan on Thursday shortly after meeting King Abdullah II as he began his trip to the region to discuss Syria 's future . Blinken will next visit Turkey , a NATO ally and a main backer of Syrian rebel groups . He called this " a time of both real promise but also peril for Syria and for its neighbors . " <p> Advertisement <p> The secretary of State said he was focused on coordinating efforts in the region " to support the Syrian people as they transition away from Assad 's brutal dictatorship " and establish a government that is n't dominated by one religion or ethnic group or outside power . <p> Blinken was asked about Israel 's incursion into a buffer zone that had been demilitarized for half a century . Netanyahu says the move is temporary and defensive but has indicated Israel will remain in the area for a long time . Blinken declined to say whether the U.S. supports the move but said the U.S. would be speaking to Israel and other partners in the region . <p> " I think , across the board , when it comes to any actors who have real interests in Syria , it 's also really important at this time that we all try to make sure that we 're not sparking any additional conflicts , " he said . <h> American who says he crossed into Syria by foot is free after detention <p> An American who turned up in Syria on Thursday says he was detained after crossing into the country by foot on a Christian pilgrimage seven months ago . Travis Timmerman appears to have been among thousands released from the country 's notorious prisons . <p> In a video that emerged online , Timmerman could be seen lying on a mattress in what appeared to be a house . A group of men in the video said he was being treated well . The Biden administration is working to bring Timmerman home , Blinken said . <p> In an interview with Al Arabiya TV network , Timmerman said he was treated well in detention but could hear other men being tortured . 
@@118788647 <h> India should be prepared for Pakistan 's anti-India initiatives in the United Nations Security Council <p> ' It is unfortunate that Pakistan ignores the many multilateral synergies between India and Pakistan to work together on UN issues ' Photo Credit : AFP <p> On January 1 , 2025 , Pakistan enters the United Nations Security Council ( UNSC ) as an elected non-permanent member for a two-year term -- its eighth . <p> Pakistan 's entry is significant in that , effectively , half of the 10 elected members of UNSC will be from the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation ( OIC ) . Those elected for 2025-26 were Denmark , Greece , Pakistan , Panama and Somalia . They will replace Ecuador , Japan , Malta , Mozambique and Switzerland as their terms end on December 31 . The new members will join Algeria , Guyana , the Republic of Korea , Sierra Leone and Slovenia , who are existing non-permanent members . <p> Afghanistan will be a natural focus with Pakistan sure to use its Council stint to repair its frosty relations with the Taliban . In this , it has Russia and China to readily assist it in the diplomatic rehabilitation of the Taliban . With the OIC countries , one hopes that the Council gets all the support it needs for a ceasefire in Gaza to salvage from the rubble whatever is left of the Palestinian cause and stabilise the region . Peacekeeping is another of Pakistan 's stated priorities given its role as a major troop contributing country for UN peacekeeping . However , Pakistan 's default mode will be to focus on India . <h> What India should expect <p> India-Pakistan relations are still strained . Even if one assumes that some backchannels are busy working the lines , it is a given that enhanced bilateral cooperation does not necessarily result in enhanced multilateral cooperation , especially in the UN . This is true not just of Pakistan but also of countries India considers as " close friends " , even in the Global South . For example , some OIC countries with which India has very close bilateral relations , line up behind Pakistani drafts in the UN which have anti-India language . They even argue -- ingeniously -- that the offensive language is not aimed at India . Fortunately , there is help usually from unexpected friends in such groups , enabling India to tide over the issues successfully . <p> To state the obvious , India should be prepared for Pakistan 's anti-India initiatives in the UNSC . There was a brief period in 2012 when there was some synergy between the Missions of both countries in the UN when both nations were in the Council , but that was an aberration . Pakistan is back to its multilateral default mode of being anti-India . And in this , it now has a more assertive " iron brother " in China offering it an " all-weather friendship " . Pakistan 's first stated priority is to " combat terrorism " , which it hopes will absolve it of the tag of " terrorist state " . It will also try -- as it always does -- to slip that tag onto India . The list of Pakistan-based and Pakistani terrorist organisations associated with the ISIL ( Daesh ) and al-Qaeda under UNSC Resolution 1267 mandated sanctions , including the Lashkar-e-Taiba ( LeT ) and the Jaish-e-Mohammed , is long and instructive . In retaliation , Pakistan has presented several " dossiers " to the UN Secretary General , that have fancy claims of Indian terrorist attacks on Pakistan -- anything to keep the anti-India pot boiling . <p> After its stint in the UNSC in 2021-22 , India 's proposal ( with the United States as co-signatory ) to list Pakistani terrorist Abdul Rehman Makki , deputy leader of the LeT , under the 1267 sanctions regime was approved by the UNSC -- including of course by China -- making this the first listing ( with India as a proposer ) for terrorist acts in Jammu and Kashmir . It was a blow to Pakistan , which it must be waiting to avenge . <p> However , even proposals under 1267 sanctions are given a religious colour by Pakistan . It made desperate attempts , with trumped up charges , to list four Indian Hindus as terrorists , with the intention of getting at least one Hindu listed . The Council rejected every one of Pakistan 's requests -- not once but twice -- thanks to the U.S. and other western countries . Member-states have seen through Pakistan 's game . <h> On Kashmir <p> Its next , and most obvious , stated priority will be Jammu and Kashmir ( J&amp;K ) . Pakistan pushed for discussions on J&amp;K in the Council through its " friends " when India abrogated Article 370 of the Constitution . Two closed " consultations " were held in the UNSC , with China acting as the cat's-paw . But nothing happened . At least four of the five permanent members ( P-5 ) have little appetite for this issue . When a Pakistani journalist in New York asked this writer -- when India entered the UNSC in January 2021 -- about the " unfinished " business of Article 370 , the reply he got was this : that the only " unfinished " business was the return of **25;1610;TOOLONG ( PoK ) to India . <p> With elections having been conducted and a popular- government in place in J&amp;K , Pakistan would find it hard to make an issue . China , which , incidentally , occupies a part of PoK after Pakistan ceded it to them , will only be too happy to keep the pot boiling . The Pakistani Ambassador to the UN made a case in the media on how the recent decision by the International Court of Justice decision on Palestine applies to J&amp;K . One can not stop Pakistan from trying to do what it wants as its presence in the UNSC will give it the lever to call for discussions on J&amp;K . India is aware that the P-5 usually does not like to prevent discussions , but decides whether it should be open or closed and whether there should be an outcome . <h> The use of Islamophobia <p> Pakistan has used Islamophobia as a weapon to dilute the fight against terrorism and , going by its recent attempts , to target India . When the United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy ( GTS ) was discussed in 2021 , and again in 2023 , Pakistan , supported by the OIC , sought to introduce Islamophobia as a ' justification ' for terrorism . India stood alone and had the reference removed . But when India left the Council at the end of 2022 , the United Arab Emirates and others inserted , inter alia , Islamophobia into the UNSC Presidential statement for the first time in February 2023 . In March 2024 , the U.S. , China and Russia voted in the UN General Assembly in support of an OIC resolution to appoint a UN Special Envoy for Combatting Islamophobia . With the right wing on the rise in the West , one has not heard the last on this subject in the Council with the OIC countries . <p> Early this year , Pakistan raised the issue of the bilateral India-Pakistan Indus Waters Treaty in the Council , which is a purely bilateral agreement with its mechanism to resolve disputes . This is a misuse of the UNSC with the only benefit of catering to a domestic audience . <p> During its stint between 2021-22 , India played a robust and positive role in strengthening international peace and security . While many UNSC members misuse " Arria formula " meetings ( a dispensation where any UNSC member can circumvent the Council and hold informal meetings on any issue ) , India avoided doing this and stuck to its priorities in the Council . Pakistan will have no such compunctions . <p> It is unfortunate that Pakistan ignores the many multilateral synergies between India and Pakistan to work together on UN issues . Both countries have similar interests : in UN peacekeeping , as they are large troop-contributing countries ; in combating climate change , as they face severe climate change-induced floods and natural disasters ; in achieving Sustainable Development Goals 2030 ; in focusing on the debt burden of the Global South ; or in reforming multilateral financial institutions . Sometimes even functional contacts with Indian diplomats are frowned upon by its Mission . <p> Pakistan 's internal political churning , economic collapse and misplaced priorities have prevented it from strengthening multilateralism and the UN in a world wrecked by conflicts . While its term will be high on rhetoric against India , it is difficult to see how UN member-states will be persuaded to play its game . <p> T.S . Tirumurti was Permanent **25;1637;TOOLONG of India to the United Nations , New York ( 2021-22 ) and President of United Nations Security Council for August 2021 <h> Comments <p> Comments have to be in English , and in full sentences . They can not be abusive or personal . Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments . <p> We have migrated to a new commenting platform . If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in , you may continue to engage with our articles . If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments . Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle. 
@@118790750 <p> US Secretary of State Antony Blinken , right , meets with Deputy Executive Director of the United Nations World Food Programme ( WFP ) Carl Skau , second from left , during his visit to the WFP headquarters ahead of a G7 foreign ministers ' meeting , in Rome , Monday , Nov. 25 , 2024 . <h> The deputy executive director of the U.N . World Food Program has been on whirlwind visits to hotspots in the Middle East and Sudan to assess dire humanitarian situations and escalating demands for food from millions of people trapped or fleeing conflicts <p> Palestinian children collect water in jerrycans at a camp for displaced people in Deir al-Balah , Gaza Strip , Thursday , Dec. 12 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Abdel Kareem Hana ) <p> Abdel Kareem Hana - stringer , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Palestinian children collect water in jerrycans at a camp for displaced people in Deir al-Balah , Gaza Strip , Thursday , Dec. 12 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Abdel Kareem Hana ) <p> Andreas . Solaro - pool , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> US Secretary of State Antony Blinken , right , meets with Deputy Executive Director of the United Nations World Food Programme ( WFP ) Carl Skau , second from left , during his visit to the WFP headquarters ahead of a G7 foreign ministers ' meeting , in Rome , Monday , Nov. 25 , 2024 . ( Andreas Solaro/Pool Photo via AP ) <p> UNITED NATIONS ( AP ) -- The deputy executive director of the U.N . World Food Program has been on whirlwind visits to hotspots in the Middle East and Sudan to assess dire humanitarian situations and escalating demands for food from millions of people trapped or fleeing conflicts . <p> But Carl Skau said in an interview with The Associated Press this week that the Rome-based agency has been forced to make major cuts to the numbers of people it can help because of a lack of funding . <p> Even before Lebanon and the end of the Assad family 's more than 50-year rule , he said 3 million people were acutely food insecure and very hungry . But the agency was only providing food aid to 2 million because of funding cuts . <p> Now , Skau said , " it 's a triple crisis , and the needs are going to be massive . " <p> While the situation in Aleppo , Syria 's largest city , is " quite calm and orderly , " he said there is still uncertainty in the capital , Damascus , where markets are disrupted , currency values have dropped , food prices are going up and transport is n't working . <p> This means a bigger humanitarian response in the short term . In the next phase , the U.N . will be focusing on Syria 's recovery and ultimately its reconstruction , Skau said . <p> In northern areas , where the U.N . estimates there are still 65,000 Palestinians and no aid has arrived for more than two months , Skau said Israeli military operations , lawlessness and taking of food aid have prevented access to the needy . <p> He said some humanitarian convoys have gotten through to the broader northern area including Gaza City , where the U.N . estimates some 300,000 people are located . <p> In the south , Skau said , WFP assisted around 1.2 million people in June , July , August and into September . In October and November , only one-third of that number -- 400,000 Palestinians -- got aid . At the same time , the entry of essential commercial goods was very little compared with the summer months , Skau said . <p> He blamed the limited number of entry points and the inability to move food to WFP warehouses as well as the " total breakdown of civil and public order . " <h> Sudan is the world 's largest humanitarian crisis <p> The needs are overwhelming : 25 million people in war-torn Sudan are acutely food insecure , with famine declared in the huge Zam Zam camp for the displaced in western Darfur . <p> Skau cited progress over the past month in getting clearances to deliver aid across conflict lines and the border from Chad . And with roads drying up at the end of the rainy season , WFP is able to deliver " much more food . " <p> One convoy reached Zam Zam camp and two others were on the way but have been held up because of fighting in the past 10 days in El Fasher , the capital of North Darfur , Skau said . <p> It is the only capital in Darfur still held by Sudanese forces . The others are held by the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces . <p> Sudan plunged into conflict in mid-April 2023 , when long-simmering tensions between its military and paramilitary leaders broke out in the capital , Khartoum , and spread to other regions , including western Darfur . <p> WFP reached some 2.6 million people this month , Skau said , stressing that the international community should have done more to address the Sudan crisis " and needs to do more going forward . " <p> Copyright 2024 The Associated Press . All rights reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten or redistributed without permission . <h> Watch this discussion.Stop watching this discussion . <h> ( 0 ) comments <h> Welcome to the discussion . <p> Keep it Clean . Please avoid obscene , vulgar , lewd , racist or sexually-oriented language.PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.Do n't Threaten . Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.Be Truthful . Do n't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.Be Nice . No racism , sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.Be Proactive . Use the ' Report ' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us . We 'd love to hear eyewitness accounts , the history behind an article . 
@@118790751 <p> WASHINGTON ( AP ) -- The White House on Thursday announced what it called the first-ever national strategy to counter Islamophobia , detailing more than 100 steps federal officials can take to curb hate , violence , bias and discrimination against Muslims and Arab Americans . <p> Officials worked on the anti-Islamophobia plan for months , and its release came five weeks before Biden leaves office -- meaning implementation will mostly fall to President-elect Donald Trump , if his administration chooses to do so . <p> In a statement announcing the strategy , the Biden administration wrote that " Over the past year , this initiative has become even more important as threats against American Muslim and Arab communities have spiked . " It said that included the October 2023 slaying of 6-year-old Wadee Alfayoumi , an American Muslim boy of Palestinian descent , who was stabbed to death in Illinois . <p> The plan details actions the Executive Branch can take , along with more than 100 other calls to action across all sectors of society . <p> The strategy has four basic priorities : increasing awareness of hatred against Muslims and Arabs while more widely recognizing these communities ' heritages ; broadly improving their safety and security ; appropriately accommodating Muslim and Arab religious practices by working to curb discrimination against them ; and encouraging cross-community solidarity to further counter hate . <p> Many of those state goals are similar to the ones the Biden administration laid out in its plan to reduce antisemitism -- especially the emphasis on improving safety and security and building cross-community solidarity . <p> " While individuals have sometimes been targeted because they are thought to be Muslim , it is also crucial to recognize that Arabs are routinely targeted simply for being who they are , " the announcement of the strategy states , noting that Muslims and Arab Americans have helped build out the nation since its founding . It says that new data collection and education efforts are " increasing awareness of these forms of hate as well of the proud heritages of Muslim and Arab Americans . " <p> The plan calls for more widely disseminating successful practices of engaging Muslim and Arab Americans in the reporting of hate crimes , and that federal agencies are now more clearly spelling out that " discrimination against Muslim and Arab Americans in federally funded activities is illegal . " <p> The White House 's plan also urges " state , local , and international counterparts , as well as the nongovernmental sector , to pursue similar initiatives that seek to build greater unity by recognizing our common humanity , affirming our shared values and history , and embracing equal justice , liberty , and security for all . " <p> Pro-Palestinian groups decrying his administration 's full-throated support for Israel in its war with Hamas in Gaza , frequently disrupted Biden campaign events , as well as those of Vice President Kamala Harris after Biden abandoned his reelection bid in July . <p> The Council on American-Islamic Relations , largest Muslim civil rights and advocacy organization in the U.S. , panned what it called " the White House 's long-delayed document " as " too little , too late . " <p> " The White House strategy lays out some positive recommendations related to anti-Muslim bigotry , but it has been released too late to make an impact , fails to promise any changes to federal programs that perpetuate anti-Muslim discrimination on a massive scale , " the council said in a statement further noting that the plan does n't address what it called a " federal watchlist " targeting some Arab-Americans as potential terrorists . <p> It added that the plan " fails to promise an end the most significant driver of anti-Muslim bigotry today : the U.S.-backed genocide in Gaza . " <p> Copyright 2024 The Associated Press . All rights reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten or redistributed without permission . <h> Watch this discussion.Stop watching this discussion . <h> ( 0 ) comments <h> Welcome to the discussion . <p> Keep it Clean . Please avoid obscene , vulgar , lewd , racist or sexually-oriented language.PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.Do n't Threaten . Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.Be Truthful . Do n't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.Be Nice . No racism , sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.Be Proactive . Use the ' Report ' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us . We 'd love to hear eyewitness accounts , the history behind an article . 
@@118790753 <p> Israeli soldiers with the national flag stand on an armoured vehicle after crossing the security fence near the so-called Alpha Line that separates the Israeli-controlled Golan Heights from Syria , in the town of Majdal Shams , Thursday , Dec. 12 , 2024 . <p> Israeli soldiers stand next to armoured vehicles before crossing the security fence , moving towards the so-called Alpha Line that separates the Israeli-controlled Golan Heights from Syria , in the town of Majdal Shams , Thursday , Dec. 12 , 2024 . <p> Israeli soldiers stand next to armoured vehicles before crossing the security fence , moving towards the so-called Alpha Line that separates the Israeli-controlled Golan Heights from Syria , in the town of Majdal Shams , Thursday , Dec. 12 , 2024 . <p> Palestinians mourn over the bodies of victims of an Israeli army strike on the Nuseirat refugee camp , at the Al-Aqsa Martyrs hospital in Deir al-Balah , Gaza Strip , Thursday Dec. 12 , 2024 . Palestinian medical officials say Israeli airstrikes have killed at least 28 people in the Gaza Strip , including seven children and a woman . <p> Asma Al Habash , mourns her brother and his family , victims of an Israeli army strike on the Nuseirat refugee camp , at the Al-Aqsa Martyrs hospital in Deir al-Balah , Gaza Strip , Thursday Dec. 12 , 2024 . Palestinian medical officials say Israeli airstrikes have killed at least 28 people in the Gaza Strip , including seven children and a woman . <p> Morners attend the funeral procession of Syrian activist Mazen al-Hamada in Damascus Thursday Dec. 12 , 2024 . Al-Hamad 's mangled corpse was found wrapped in a bloody sheet in Saydnaya prison . He had fled to Europe but returned to Syria in 2020 and was imprisoned upon arrival . <h> Palestinian medical officials say an Israeli airstrike flattened a multistory building in central Gaza , killing at least 25 people and wounding dozens more <p> Israeli security forces work at the scene of a shooting attack on a bus near the West Bank town of Beit Jala , early Thursday , Dec. 12 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Mahmoud Illean ) <p> Mahmoud Illean - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Israeli security forces work at the scene of a shooting attack on a bus near the West Bank town of Beit Jala , early Thursday , Dec. 12 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Mahmoud Illean ) <p> Mahmoud Illean - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Israeli security forces work at the scene of a shooting attack on a bus near the West Bank town of Beit Jala , early Thursday , Dec. 12 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Mahmoud Illean ) <p> Mahmoud Illean - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Israeli security forces work at the scene of a shooting attack on a bus near the West Bank town of Beit Jala , early Thursday , Dec. 12 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Mahmoud Illean ) <p> Matias Delacroix - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> An Israeli army tank maneuvers near the so-called Alpha Line that separates the Israeli-annexed Golan Heights from Syria , in the town of Majdal Shams , Wednesday , Dec. 11 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Matias Delacroix ) <p> Secretary General of the United Nations , Antonio Guterres , during a visit in Pretoria , South Africa . Wednesday , Dec. 11 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Shiraaz Mohamed ) <p> Mahmoud Illean - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Israeli security forces work at the scene of a shooting attack on a bus near the West Bank town of Beit Jala , early Thursday , Dec. 12 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Mahmoud Illean ) <p> Mahmoud Illean - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Israeli security forces work at the scene of a shooting attack on a bus near the West Bank town of Beit Jala , early Thursday , Dec. 12 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Mahmoud Illean ) <p> Matias Delacroix - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> An Israeli tank maneuvers next to the security fence near the so-called Alpha Line that separates the Israeli-annexed Golan Heights from Syria , in the town of Majdal Shams , Wednesday , Dec. 11 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Matias Delacroix ) <p> Matias Delacroix - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Israeli tanks maneuver next to the security fence near the so-called Alpha Line that separates the Israeli-annexed Golan Heights from Syria , in the town of Majdal Shams , Wednesday , Dec. 11 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Matias Delacroix ) <p> Matias Delacroix - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Israeli soldiers with the national flag stand on an armoured vehicle after crossing the security fence near the so-called Alpha Line that separates the Israeli-controlled Golan Heights from Syria , in the town of Majdal Shams , Thursday , Dec. 12 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Matias Delacroix ) <p> Israeli soldiers stand next to armoured vehicles before crossing the security fence , moving towards the so-called Alpha Line that separates the Israeli-controlled Golan Heights from Syria , in the town of Majdal Shams , Thursday , Dec. 12 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Matias Delacroix ) <p> Matias Delacroix - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Israeli soldiers stand next to armoured vehicles before crossing the security fence , moving towards the so-called Alpha Line that separates the Israeli-controlled Golan Heights from Syria , in the town of Majdal Shams , Thursday , Dec. 12 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Matias Delacroix ) <p> Abdel Kareem Hana - stringer , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Palestinians mourn over the bodies of victims of an Israeli army strike on the Nuseirat refugee camp , at the Al-Aqsa Martyrs hospital in Deir al-Balah , Gaza Strip , Thursday Dec. 12 , 2024 . Palestinian medical officials say Israeli airstrikes have killed at least 28 people in the Gaza Strip , including seven children and a woman . ( AP Photo/Abdel Kareem Hana ) <p> Abdel Kareem Hana - stringer , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Asma Al Habash , mourns her brother and his family , victims of an Israeli army strike on the Nuseirat refugee camp , at the Al-Aqsa Martyrs hospital in Deir al-Balah , Gaza Strip , Thursday Dec. 12 , 2024 . Palestinian medical officials say Israeli airstrikes have killed at least 28 people in the Gaza Strip , including seven children and a woman . ( AP Photo/Abdel Kareem Hana ) <p> Mahmoud Illean - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Ultra-Orthodox Jewish mourners gather for the funeral of Yehoshua Aharon Tuvia Simcha , 12 , fatally shot by a gunman who opened fire on a bus , in Jerusalem , Thursday , Dec. 12 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Mahmoud Illean ) <p> Abdel Kareem Hana - stringer , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Palestinian children push a cart carrying jerrycans and plastic bottles of water at a camp for displaced people in Deir al-Balah , Gaza Strip , on Thursday , Dec. 12 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Abdel Kareem Hana ) <p> Abdel Kareem Hana - stringer , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Palestinian children collect water in jerrycans at a camp for displaced people in Deir al-Balah , Gaza Strip , Thursday , Dec. 12 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Abdel Kareem Hana ) <p> Abdel Kareem Hana - stringer , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Palestinian children play on the dirt next to the tents of a camp for displaced people in Deir al-Balah , Gaza Strip , on Thursday , Dec. 12 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Abdel Kareem Hana ) <p> Matias Delacroix - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> An Israeli soldier flies a kite on the top of a hill along the so-called Alpha Line that separates the Israeli-controlled Golan Heights from Syria , Thursday , Dec. 12 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Matias Delacroix ) <p> Abdel Kareem Hana - stringer , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> A Palestinian boy pushes a wheelchair carrying jerrycans and plastic bottles with water at a camp for displaced people in Deir al-Balah , Gaza Strip , Thursday , Dec. 12 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Abdel Kareem Hana ) <p> A Syrian man speaks on his mobile phone as stands on the stairs of a damaged building in the town of Harasta , east of Damascus , Syria , Thursday , Dec. 12 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Omar Sanadiki ) <p> Hussein Malla - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Morners attend the funeral procession of Syrian activist Mazen al-Hamada in Damascus Thursday Dec. 12 , 2024 . Al-Hamad 's mangled corpse was found wrapped in a bloody sheet in Saydnaya prison . He had fled to Europe but returned to Syria in 2020 and was imprisoned upon arrival . ( AP Photo/Hussein Malla ) <p> Khalil Hamra - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Syrians wait to cross into Syria from Turkey at the Oncupinar border gate , near the town of Kilis , southern Turkey , Thursday , Dec. 12 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Khalil Hamra ) <p> Abdel Kareem Hana - stringer , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> A Palestinian boy pushes a wheelchair carrying jerrycans and plastic bottles with water at a camp for displaced people in Deir al-Balah , Gaza Strip , Thursday , Dec. 12 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Abdel Kareem Hana ) <p> An Israeli airstrike flattened a multistory building in central Gaza , killing at least 25 people and wounding dozens more , according to Palestinian medical officials , after strikes Thursday across the Gaza Strip killed at least 28 others . <p> The latest deadly strike hit the urban Nuseirat refugee camp just hours after U.S. President Joe Biden 's national security adviser , Jake Sullivan , told reporters in Jerusalem that the recent ceasefire in Lebanon has helped clear the way for a potential deal to end the war in Gaza between Israel and Hamas . <p> The Israeli military did not immediately comment on the deadly strike in Nuseirat . Israel says it is trying to eliminate Hamas , which led the attack on southern Israel in October 2023 that sparked the war in Gaza . The Israeli military says Hamas militants hide among Gaza 's civilian population . <p> The fighting has plunged Gaza into a severe humanitarian crisis , with experts warning of famine in some of the hardest-hit parts of the territory . <p> Israel 's offensive has killed over 44,800 Palestinians in Gaza , more than half of them women and children , according to the Gaza Health Ministry , which does not say how many were combatants . The Israeli military says it has killed over 17,000 militants , without providing evidence . <p> The Oct. 7 , 2023 attack by Hamas killed some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and around 250 others were taken hostage . Some 100 hostages are still inside Gaza , at least a third of whom are believed to be dead . <p> Here 's the latest : <h> UN chief urges Israel to stop attacks on Syria <p> UNITED NATIONS -- The United Nations chief has a message for Israel : Stop the attacks on Syria . <p> Secretary-General Ant ? nio Guterres is particularly concerned about several hundred Israeli airstrikes on several Syrian locations and stresses " the urgent need to de-escalate violence on all fronts throughout the country , " U.N . spokesman Stephane Dujarric told reporters Thursday . <p> The Israeli military said Tuesday it carried out more than 350 strikes in Syria over the previous 48 hours , hitting " most of the strategic weapons stockpiles " in the country to stop them from falling into the hands of extremists . <p> Israel also acknowledged pushing into a buffer zone inside Syria following last week 's overthrow of President Bashar Assad . The buffer zone was established after Israel seized the Golan Heights from Syria in the 1973 war . <p> Dujarric said Guterres condemns all actions violating the 1974 ceasefire agreement between the two countries that remains in force . And the U.N . chief calls on the parties to uphold the agreement and end " all unauthorized presence in the area of separation " and refrain from any action undermining the ceasefire and stability in the Golan Heights , the spokesman said . <h> Syrian exile group says transitional government should be formed through a UN-backed process <p> DAMASCUS , Syria -- Mohammad Salim Alkhateb , an official with the National Coalition of Syrian Revolution and Opposition Forces -- an internationally backed group of the opposition in exile -- said his group wants to see a transitional government formed via a United Nations-backed process in the wake of Bashar Assad ouster . <p> It is not yet clear if Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , the main rebel group now in control of Syria , will pursue such a process . The insurgents have said an interim government headed by Mohammad al-Bashir , who is also the head of the " salvation government " of HTS in its former stronghold in northern Syria , will oversee the country until March but have not made clear how the transition to a new , fully empowered government would take place . <p> " The transitional governing body should be formed in Geneva to have international legitimacy , " said Alkhateb , who is now in Damascus . " The transitional governing body , whatever its form , whether it is the ' salvation government ' or any other , what matters is that it has international recognition . " <p> Alkhateb said that the unexpectedly rapid fall of Damascus and departure of Assad after opposition forces launched their offensive had created confusion and a governance vacuum . <p> A day before the insurgents pushed into Damascus , diplomats from countries including Saudi Arabia , Qatar , Turkey , Iran and Russia met in Qatar to discuss the situation in Syria . <p> Alkhateb said that they had discussed a scenario in which the rebels would halt their advance , keeping the territory they had captured so far in the north -- including Syria 's largest city , Aleppo -- and the opposition and Assad 's government would go to Geneva for talks on a political settlement to the conflict . <p> However , he noted , " there were no Syrians in that meeting . " <p> Assad fled to Russia before the rebel forces arrived in Damascus but has not officially announced his resignation , which is " why we are living in a vacuum rather than a political transition , " Alkhateb said . <p> He added that creating a professional army should be a priority of the transitional government . <p> " We do not want a civilian who was trained during the revolution to carry military weapons to become the military , " he said . <p> Israel bombed hundreds of military sites in Syria this week in a wave of airstrikes that destroyed " most of the strategic weapons stockpiles " in the country . Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said the wave of airstrikes in neighboring Syria was necessary to keep the weapons from being used against Israel following the Syrian government 's stunning collapse . <h> Biden administration says missing American journalist in Syria ' is a top priority ' <p> WASHINGTON -- White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre says Austin Tice , an American journalist missing in Syria for 12 years , " is a top priority for this president . " <p> During a briefing with reporters on Thursday , Jean-Pierre said of Tice , " There is no indication that he is not alive . There 's also no indication about his location or condition . " <p> " What our goal is , is to bring him home . And so , we hope certainly that he is alive and , as we have stated many times before , we are talking through this with the Turks and we want to do everything we can to bring him home , " she said . <h> Four Israeli strikes in Lebanon should be investigated as war crimes , rights group says <p> BEIRUT -- Amnesty International said Thursday that four Israeli airstrikes between September and October that killed at least 49 civilians in Lebanon " must be investigated as war crimes . " <p> The rights organization said in a new report that the four strikes targeted homes in the Bekaa Valley , northern and eastern Lebanon , and municipal offices in the south . <p> " These four attacks are emblematic of Israel 's shocking disregard for civilian lives in Lebanon and their willingness to flout international law , " said Amnesty International 's Erika Guevara Rosas , Senior Director for Research , Advocacy , Policy and Campaigns . <p> The rights group said this report was part of its ongoing investigation into violations of the laws of war in Lebanon . <p> Amnesty International investigated four Israeli airstrikes , including one on Sept. 29 in al-Ain that killed all nine members of the same family . On Oct. 21 , a strike in Baalbek city in eastern Lebanon killed six members of the same family . Another on Oct. 14 in the village of Aitou in northern Lebanon killed 23 displaced people , including a 5-month-old baby . <p> A fragment from the attack site in Aitou was identified by an Amnesty weapons expert as likely part of a Mk-80 series aerial bomb , weighing at least 500 pounds . These munitions are primarily supplied to Israel by the United States , Amnesty said . <p> The fourth strike Amnesty investigated was the strike that hit the municipal headquarters in Nabatiyeh , southern Lebanon , on Oct. 16 , killing 11 civilians including the mayor . <p> " The air strike took place without warning , just as the municipality 's crisis unit was meeting to coordinate deliveries of aid , including food , water and medicine , to residents and internally displaced people who had fled bombardment in other parts of southern Lebanon , " Amnesty said . <p> The rights group said it interviewed survivors and witnesses , examined evidence , and found no military targets near the sites of the four strikes . The Israeli military gave no warnings and did not respond to Amnesty 's inquiries , the group said . <h> Israeli strike on a multistory building in Gaza kills at least 25 people and wounds dozens <p> DEIR AL-BALAH , Gaza Strip -- An Israeli airstrike hit the central Gaza Strip on Thursday , killing at least 25 Palestinians and wounding dozens more , Palestinian medics said , just hours after President Joe Biden 's national security adviser raised hopes about a ceasefire deal to end the war in Gaza . <p> Photos from the scene of the blast that circulated on social media showed a completely collapsed building with people walking through its mangled and charred remains , smoke rising from piles of belongings strewn over the rubble . <p> Officials at two hospitals in the Gaza Strip , al-Awda Hospital in the north and al-Aqsa Hospital in central Gaza , reported they received a combined total of 25 bodies from an Israeli strike on a multistory residential building in the urban Nuseirat refugee camp . <p> Palestinian medics also reported that over 40 people , most of them children , were receiving treatment at the two hospitals . The al-Aqsa Hospital said that the Israeli attack also damaged several nearby houses in Nuseirat . <p> There was no immediate comment from the Israeli military on the deadly strike . Israel is trying to eliminate Hamas , which led the attack on southern Israel in October 2023 that sparked the war in Gaza . The Israeli military says Hamas militants hide among Gaza 's civilian population . <p> Israel 's war against Hamas has killed over 44,800 Palestinians in Gaza , more than half of them women and children , according to the Gaza Health Ministry , which does not say how many were combatants . The Israeli military says it has killed over 17,000 militants , without providing evidence . <p> The fighting has plunged Gaza into a severe humanitarian crisis , with experts warning of famine . <p> Israel says it allows enough aid to enter and blames U.N . agencies for not distributing it . The U.N . says Israeli restrictions , and the breakdown of law and order after Israel repeatedly targeted the Hamas-run police force , make it extremely difficult to operate in the territory . <h> UN food agency faces challenges in Syria <p> UNITED NATIONS -- The U.N . food agency is trying to deal with massive needs in Syria not only from escalating war-related food insecurity and an upsurge in displaced people fleeing Lebanon but also the dramatically new environment following the ouster of Bashar Assad , a senior U.N . official says . <p> " It 's a triple crisis and the needs are going to be massive , " said Carl Skau , deputy executive director of the World Food Program , in an interview with The Associated Press late Wednesday . <p> The WFP estimated that 3 million people in Syria were " acutely food insecure " and very hungry . However , that estimate was made before the Israel-Hezbollah war in Lebanon pushed many Syrian refugees back to their home country , plus the instability caused by the overthrow of Assad . Due to funding cuts , the WFP had been targeting only 2 million of those people , he said . <p> Because WFP has been working in Syria during the 13-year civil war , he said , it has pre-positioned food in the country . It has 500 staff in seven offices nationwide and has operated across conflict lines , across borders , and with all different parties , he said . <p> Skau said Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , the main rebel group now in control of Syria , has promised to provide security for WFP warehouses . Humanitarian aid supplies had been looted at U.N . warehouses in the disorder after Assad fell . <p> " We 're not really up and running in Damascus because of the continued kind of uncertainty there , " he said . WFP initially thought of relocating non-essential staff but the situation in Aleppo , Syria 's largest city , has been " quite calm and orderly , " he said . <p> In the short term , Skau said , " what we 're seeing is that markets are disrupted , the value of the currency dropped dramatically , food prices are going up , transport lines do n't work , " and it 's unclear who will stamp required papers for imports and exports . <p> This means that a bigger humanitarian response is needed initially , he said , but in the next phase , the U , N. will be looking at contributing to Syria 's recovery , and ultimately the country will need reconstruction . <p> Skau said he expects a new funding appeal for Syria and urged donors to be generous . <h> A top US official says the truce in Lebanon may help seal a Gaza ceasefire deal <p> JERUSALEM -- President Joe Biden 's national security adviser , Jake Sullivan , told reporters in Jerusalem on Thursday that Israel 's ceasefire in Lebanon has helped clear the way for another deal to end the war in Gaza . <p> He plans to travel next to Qatar and Egypt -- key mediators in the ceasefire talks -- as the Biden administration makes a final push on negotiations before Donald Trump is inaugurated . <p> Sullivan said " Hamas ' posture at the negotiating table did adapt " after Israel decimated the leadership of its ally Hezbollah in Lebanon and reached a ceasefire there . <p> " We believe it puts us in a position to close this negotiation , " he said . <p> Sullivan dismissed speculation that Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu was waiting for Trump to take office to finalize a deal . He the U.S. believes there are three American hostages still alive in Gaza , but it 's hard to know for sure . <p> He also said " the balance of power in the Middle East has changed significantly " since Hamas ' Oct. 7 attack on Israel , especially with the overthrow of former Syrian President Bashar Assad , a key ally of Hezbollah and Iran . <p> " We are now faced with a dramatically reshaped Middle East in which Israel is stronger , Iran is weaker , its proxies decimated , and a ceasefire that is new and will be lasting in Lebanon that ensures Israel 's security over the long term , " he said . <h> Israel launches deadly strike on a Lebanese border town just hours after withdrawing troops <p> KHIAM , Lebanon -- An Israeli strike killed at least one person Thursday in the Lebanese border town of Khiam , the Health Ministry said , less than a day after Israeli troops handed the hilltop village back to the Lebanese army in coordination with U.N . peacekeepers , <p> Khiam is the first Lebanese town Israel has pull out of since a ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah militants began two weeks ago , and marks an important test of the fragile truce . <p> Lebanon 's Health Ministry and state news agency did not provide details on who was killed , and did not report airstrikes elsewhere on Thursday . The Israeli military said the airstrike in Khiam targeted Hezbollah fighters . <p> Lebanese troops deployed in the northern section of the town on Thursday morning and were coordinating with U.N . peacekeepers to finalize Israel 's withdrawal before fully entering into other neighborhoods . <p> An Associated Press reporter who visited Khiam on Thursday observed widespread destruction , with most houses reduced to rubble . Entire neighborhoods were flattened , with collapsed walls and debris scattered across the streets . <p> Lebanon 's caretaker prime minister , Najib Mikati , sharply criticized Israel for striking the town less than 24 hours after the Lebanese army returned , saying it was " a violation of the pledges made by the parties that sponsored the ceasefire agreement , who must act to curb Israeli aggression . " The truce was brokered by the U.S. and France . <p> Israel has previously said the ceasefire deal allows it to use military force against perceived violations . Near-daily attacks by Israel during the ceasefire , mostly in southern Lebanon , have killed at least 29 people and wounded 27 others . <p> Khiam , which sits on a ridge less than 3 miles ( 5 kilometers ) from the border with Israel , saw some of the most intense fighting during the war . <p> The Lebanese army was clearing debris and reopening roads in the northern section of the town . Civilian access to other areas remained challenging as the army clears roads and works alongside the U.N . peacekeepers to ensure the area is free of unexploded ordnance . <h> Blinken urges the many players in Syria to avoid taking any steps that could lead to violence <p> AQABA , Jordan -- U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken is urging the many players in Syria to avoid taking any steps that could lead to further violence . <p> Blinken spoke to reporters in Jordan on Thursday shortly after meeting King Abdullah II as he opened a trip in the region to discuss Syria 's future after former President Bashar Assad 's ouster . Blinken will next visit Turkey , a NATO ally and a main backer of Syrian rebel groups . <p> Blinken called this " a time of both real promise but also peril for Syria and for its neighbors . " <p> He said he was focused on coordinating efforts in the region " to support the Syrian people as they transition away from Assad 's brutal dictatorship " and establish a government that is n't dominated by one religion or ethnic group or outside power . <p> Blinken was asked about Israel 's incursion into a buffer zone that had been demilitarized for the past half century . Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says the move is temporary and defensive , but also indicated Israel will remain in the area for a long time . <p> Blinken declined to say whether the U.S. supports the move , but said the U.S. would be speaking to Israel and other partners in the region . <p> " I think , across the board , when it comes to any actors who have real interests in Syria , it 's also really important at this time that , we all try to make sure that we 're not sparking any additional conflicts , " he said . <p> Kalin was seen arriving at the Umayyad Mosque to pray , surrounded by a large crowd , according to video shown on Turkish television . <p> The visit is highly symbolic . <p> Turkish officials , who supported the opposition against Syria 's government , had predicted at the start of the civil war in 2011 that President Bashar Assad 's government would fall , allowing them to pray at the Umayyad Mosque . <h> US Secretary of State Blinken renews calls for inclusion , stability in Syria in Mideast visit <p> AQABA , Jordan -- U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken is renewing calls for Syria 's new leadership to respect women and minority rights , prevent extremists from gaining new footholds in the country and keeping suspected chemical weapons stocks secure as he makes his first visit to the Mideast since the weekend ouster of Syrian President Bashar Assad . <p> Making his 12th trip to the Middle East since the Israel-Hamas war erupted lasted year but amid fresh concerns about security following the upheaval in Syria , Blinken emphasized Thursday to Jordan 's King Abdullah II U.S. " support for an inclusive transition that can lead to an accountable and representative Syrian government chosen by the Syrian people , " the State Department said . <p> Blinken also repeated the importance the outgoing Biden administration puts on respect for human rights and international law , the protection of civilians and stopping terrorist groups from reconstituting . <p> Blinken met with the monarch and Jordanian Foreign Minister Ayman Safadi in Aqaba before traveling to Turkey for talks with Turkish officials on the situation in Syria and the urgency of securing a long-elusive deal to release hostages and end the fighting in Gaza that has devastated the Palestinian territory since October 2023 . <p> Abdullah told Blinken that " the first step to reach comprehensive regional calm is to end the Israeli war on Gaza . " <p> GENEVA -- The U.N . envoy for Syria is calling on authorities to save evidence from detention centers that were a hub of " unimaginable barbarity " that Syrians have faced for many years and cooperate with international investigators looking into such crimes . <p> Geir Pederson referred to new images from the notorious Saydnaya military prison north of the capital , Damascus , after President Bashar Assad fled Syria as armed groups stormed in to overthrow his government over the weekend . <p> " The images from Saydnaya and other detention facilities starkly underscore the unimaginable barbarity Syrians have endured and reported for years , " Pedersen said in a statement . <p> Documentation and testimonies " only scratch the surface of the carceral system 's horrors , " he added . <p> Pedersen urged authorities to cooperate with U.N . bodies like an independent Commission of Inquiry on Syria , which was created in 2011 , and an independent group known as the IIIM that was set up five years later to also compile evidence of crimes . <h> G7 leaders say they support an inclusive political transition in Syria <p> ROME -- Leaders of the Group of 7 industrialized nations offered their full support for an inclusive political transition in Syria and invited all parties to preserve the country 's territorial integrity . <p> In a message released by Italian Premier Giorgia Meloni 's office , the leaders said they were ready to support a transition that " leads to a credible government , inclusive and not sectarian , that guarantees respect for the state of law , universal human rights , including rights for women , ( and ) the protection of all Syrians , including religious and ethnic minorities . " <p> The leaders also underlined the importance that ousted President Bashar Assad 's government is held responsible for crimes , citing " decades of atrocities . " <p> They said they would also cooperate with groups working to prohibit chemical weapons " to secure , declare and destroy " remaining chemical arms in Syria . <p> Italy currently holds the rotating presidency of the G-7 , which also includes Britain , Canada , France , Germany , Japan and the United States . <h> Israel 's military says it hit Hamas militants in two locations in southern Gaza <p> JERUSALEM -- The Israeli military says it struck Hamas militants in two locations in the southern Gaza Strip who planned to hijack aid convoys . <p> Palestinian Health officials had earlier said that the two strikes killed 15 men who were part of local committees established to secure aid deliveries . The committees have been organized in cooperation with the Hamas-run Interior Ministry in Gaza . <p> It was not possible to independently confirm either account of the strikes , which occurred overnight into Thursday . <p> Israel has long accused Hamas of hijacking humanitarian aid deliveries , while U.N . officials have said there is no systemic diversion of aid . <p> U.N . agencies and aid groups say deliveries are held up by Israeli restrictions on the entry of aid and movement within Gaza , as well as the breakdown of law and order more than 14 months into the war between Israel and Hamas . <p> Israel has repeatedly targeted the Hamas-run police force , which maintained internal security before the war . <p> The United Nations agency for Palestinian refugees , the main aid provider in Gaza , said a U.N . convoy of 70 trucks carrying humanitarian aid in southern Gaza " was involved in a serious incident , " resulting in just one of the trucks reaching its destination . <p> It did not provide further details on the incident but said the same route had been used successfully two days earlier . <p> Israel 's offensive , launched after Hamas ' Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack , has caused vast destruction and displaced around 90% of Gaza 's population of 2.3 million , leaving the territory heavily reliant on international food aid . <h> American who says he crossed into Syria by foot is free after 7 months in detention <p> DAMASCUS , Syria -- An American who turned up in Syria on Thursday says he was detained after crossing into the country by foot on a Christian pilgrimage seven months ago . <p> In the video , Timmerman could be seen lying on a mattress under a blanket in what appeared to be a private house . A group of men in the video said he was being treated well and would be safely returned home . <p> The Biden administration is working to bring Timmerman home , Secretary of State Antony Blinken told reporters in Aqaba , Jordan , without offering details , citing privacy . <p> Timmerman later gave an interview with the Al-Arabiya TV network , saying he had illegally crossed into Syria on foot from the eastern Lebanese town of Zahle seven months ago , before being detained . <p> He said he was treated well in detention but could hear other men being tortured . <h> US Secretary of State Blinken visits Mideast after Assad 's ouster in Syria <p> Blinken was meeting in Aqaba with Jordan 's King Abdullah II and Foreign Minister Ayman Safadi on Thursday before traveling to Turkey for talks with Turkish officials on Friday . The meetings will focus largely on Syria but also touch on long-elusive hopes for a deal to end the fighting in Gaza that has devastated the Palestinian territory since October 2023 . <p> Blinken is the latest senior U.S. official to visit the Middle East in the five days since Assad was deposed as the Biden administration navigates more volatility in the region in its last few weeks in office and as President-elect Donald Trump has said the U.S. should stay out of the Syrian conflict . <p> Other include national security adviser Jake Sullivan and a top military commander who traveled there as the U.S. and Israel have launched airstrikes to prevent the Islamic State militant group from reconstituting and prevent materiel and suspected chemical weapons stocks from falling into militant hands . <p> Blinken " will discuss the need for the transition process and new government in Syria to respect the rights of minorities , facilitate the flow of humanitarian assistance , prevent Syria from being used as a base of terrorism or posing a threat to its neighbors , and ensure that chemical weapons stockpiles are secured and safely destroyed , " the State Department said . <p> The U.S. would be willing to recognize and fully support a new Syrian government that met those criteria . <p> U.S. officials say they are not actively reviewing the foreign terrorist organization designation of the main Syrian rebel group , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , known as HTS , which was once an al-Qaida affiliate , but stressed they are not barred from speaking to its members . <p> JERUSALEM -- Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says Israeli forces will remain in a Syrian buffer zone until a new force on the other side of the border can guarantee security . <p> After the overthrow of Syrian President Bashar Assad , Israeli forces pushed into a buffer zone that had been established after the 1973 Mideast war . The military says it has seized additional strategic points nearby . <p> Israeli officials have said the move is temporary , but Netanyahu 's conditions could take months or even years to fulfill as Syria charts its post-Assad future , raising the prospect of an open-ended Israeli presence in the country . <p> " Israel will not permit jihadi groups to fill that vacuum and threaten Israeli communities on the Golan Heights with October 7th style attacks , " it said , referring to Hamas ' 2023 attack out of Gaza , which ignited the war there . <p> " That is why Israeli forces entered the buffer zone and took control of strategic sites near Israel 's border . " <p> The statement added that " this deployment is temporary until a force that is committed to the 1974 agreement can be established and security on our border can be guaranteed . " <p> The buffer zone is adjacent to the Golan Heights , which Israel captured from Syria in the 1967 Mideast war and later annexed . The international community , except for the United States , views the Golan as occupied Syrian territory . <h> Attacker who fatally shot boy on a bus in the West Bank turns himself in , military says <p> JERUSALEM -- Israel 's military said Thursday that the attacker who fatally shot a 12-year-old Israeli boy in the occupied West Bank overnight turned himself in to authorities . <p> The attacker opened fire on a bus near the Israeli settlement of Beitar Illit , critically wounding the boy , who hospital authorities pronounced dead in the early morning . Three others were wounded in the attack , paramedics said . <p> The shooting took place just outside Jerusalem in an area near major Israeli settlements . <h> Indonesia evacuates 37 citizens from Syria <p> JAKARTA , Indonesia -- The Indonesian government has evacuated 37 citizens from Syria following the fall of the Bashar al-Assad government , officials said Thursday . <p> The evacuees were taken by land from Damascus to Beirut , where they boarded three commercial flights to Jakarta , said Judha Nugraha , director of citizen protection at the Foreign Affairs Ministry . <p> The Indonesian Embassy in Damascus said all 1,162 Indonesian citizens in Syria were safe . <p> Indonesian Ambassador to Syria Wajid Fauzi said the situation in Syria has gradually returned to normal . <p> " I can say that 98% of people 's lives are back to normal , shops are open , public transportation has started running , " Fauzi said , adding that most Indonesian nationals living in Syria had chosen to stay . <p> DEIR AL-BALAH , Gaza Strip -- Palestinian medical officials say Israeli airstrikes have killed at least 28 people in the Gaza Strip , including seven children and a woman . <p> One of the strikes overnight and into Thursday flattened a house in the built-up Nuseirat refugee camp , according to the Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital in the nearby city of Deir al-Balah , where the casualties were taken . <p> An Associated Press reporter saw the bodies at the hospital 's morgue . <p> Two other strikes killed 15 men who were part of local committees established to secure aid convoys . The committees were set up by displaced Palestinians in coordination with the Hamas-run Interior Ministry . <p> The Nasser Hospital in the southern city of Khan Younis received the bodies and an AP reporter counted them . <p> The hospital said eight were killed in a strike near the southern border town of Rafah and seven others in a strike 30 minutes later near Khan Younis . <p> The war in Gaza began when Hamas-led militants attacked southern Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , killing some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and abducting around 250 people . Some 100 hostages are still inside Gaza , at least a third of whom are believed to be dead . <p> Israel 's offensive has killed over 44,800 Palestinians in Gaza , more than half of them women and children , according to the Gaza Health Ministry , which does not say how many were combatants . The Israeli military says it has killed over 17,000 militants , without providing evidence . <p> The fighting has plunged Gaza into a severe humanitarian crisis , with experts warning of famine . <p> Israel says it allows enough aid to enter and blames U.N . agencies for not distributing it . The U.N . says Israeli restrictions , and the breakdown of law and order after Israel repeatedly targeted the Hamas-run police force , make it extremely difficult to operate in the territory . <p> Copyright 2024 The Associated Press . All rights reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten or redistributed without permission . <h> Watch this discussion.Stop watching this discussion . <h> ( 0 ) comments <h> Welcome to the discussion . <p> Keep it Clean . Please avoid obscene , vulgar , lewd , racist or sexually-oriented language.PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.Do n't Threaten . Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.Be Truthful . Do n't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.Be Nice . No racism , sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.Be Proactive . Use the ' Report ' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us . We 'd love to hear eyewitness accounts , the history behind an article . 
@@118794255 <h> 11 highlights from Trump 's Time Person of the Year interview <p> Washington -- President-elect Donald Trump was named Time magazine 's Person of the Year on Thursday , the second time he has been awarded the designation after winning the White House . <p> " For marshaling a comeback of historic proportions , for driving a once-in-a- ? generation political realignment , for reshaping the American presidency and altering America 's role in the world , Donald Trump is TIME 's 2024 ? Person of the Year , " Time editor-in-chief Sam Jacobs wrote to explain the selection . <p> As part of the process , Trump sat for an interview with Time journalists at Mar-a-Lago at the end of November . The sit-down covered a wide range of topics , from inflation and foreign affairs to abortion and transgender rights . <h> Trump on inflation : " It 's very hard " to bring prices down <p> Trump campaigned on bringing down prices for everyday Americans and taming inflation . In the interview , however , Trump acknowledged that lowering prices is likely to be an uphill battle : <p> Trump : We 've had the inflation . The Democrats lost on inflation , they lost on immigration , they lost on -- as a part of immigration , I think a very big part is the border , the border itself . You know , if you can self subdivide the word immigration . They lost on the economy . But it was a different kind of -- it was the economy as it pertains to groceries and small things that are actually big things for a family . <p> Time : If the prices of groceries do n't come down , will your presidency be a failure ? <p> Trump : I do n't think so . Look , they got them up . I 'd like to bring them down . It 's hard to bring things down once they 're up . You know , it 's very hard . But I think that they will . I think that energy is going to bring them down . I think a better supply chain is going to bring them down . You know , the supply chain is still broken . It 's broken . <p> Trump fielded questions about whether he would issue pardons for the more than 1,500 people who have been convicted of crimes related to the Jan. 6 , 2021 , attack on the Capitol , when a mob of Trump 's supporters tried to stop Congress ' certification of Joe Biden 's victory in the 2020 election : <p> Time : Have you decided yet whether you 're going to pardon all of the January 6 defendants ? <p> Trump : Yes . <p> Time : You 're going to do all of them ? <p> Trump : I 'm going to do case-by-case , and if they were non-violent , I think they 've been greatly punished . And the answer is I will be doing that , yeah , I 'm going to look if there 's some that really were out of control . <p> Time : So you will not include those who committed violent acts ? <p> Trump : Well , we 're going to look at each individual case , and we 're going to do it very quickly , and it 's going to start in the first hour that I get into office . And a vast majority of them should not be in jail . A vast majority should not be in jail , and they 've suffered gravely . And I say , why is it that in Portland and in many other places , Minneapolis , why is it that nothing happened with them and they actually caused death and destruction at levels not seen before ? So you know , if you take a look at what happened in Seattle , you had people die , you had a lot of death , and nothing happened , and these people have been treated really , really badly . Yeah , it 's an important issue for me . They 've suffered greatly , and in many cases they should not have suffered . <p> Later in the interview , Trump said he will be " looking at J6 early on , maybe the first nine minutes " after taking office on Jan. 20 , 2025 . <p> Shortly after the election , Trump announced Florida Rep. Matt Gaetz as his nominee for attorney general . Gaetz was previously investigated for allegedly having sex with a 17-year-old girl , which he denied , and it soon became clear that he was unlikely to win confirmation in the Senate . He withdrew from consideration a week later . <p> Trump told Time that he thought Gaetz would have eventually gotten the votes , but he did n't think it was worth the effort : <p> Time : One of your nominees was effectively blocked by the Senate . There are other senators who have expressed doubts about some of your other nominees . What are you going to do if the Senate continues to balk at your choices for these key cabinet positions ? <p> Trump : Well , I do n't think they will . And he was n't blocked . I had the votes if I needed them , but I had to work very hard . And you know , I 'm not -- there were numerous hard no 's , all of whom agreed with me to do it . <p> Time : So you decided to give up on Gaetz ? <p> Trump : No , I did n't give up on him . I talked to him , and I said , you know , Matt , I do n't think this is worth the fight . <p> Asked whether he would use recess appointments to name heads of agencies without Senate confirmation , Trump said , " I really do n't care how they get them approved , as long as they get them approved , " but also that it was " up to the Senate . " <h> Trump says Harris should have given more interviews during the campaign <p> Asked about Vice President Kamala Harris ' missteps during the presidential race , Trump said she should n't have agreed to replace President Biden in the first place . He also said she made a mistake by not sitting for more interviews , pointing to his own willingness to speak to a variety of outlets and hosts : <p> Time : Speaking of Kamala Harris . What do you think were her worst mistakes in the campaign ? <p> Trump : Taking the assignment . Number one , because you have to know what you 're good at . <p> Time : Did she make any tactical mistakes you think that cost her ? <p> Trump : I think that when she would n't talk to anybody , it shone a light on her . In other words , if she would have gone out and just did interviews where they 're comparable to Steve Cheung , Trump 's communications director , if there is anybody comparable , would say , could you do an interview here ? An interview there ? You know , she did n't do anything . And people said , Is there something wrong with her ? Why would they ? I mean , I 'm doing this interview with you . I did interviews with , if I had the time , anybody that would ask , I 'd do interviews . I think the Joe Rogan interview , you know , that went on for almost three and a half hours . <p> After some back and forth , he continued : <p> Trump : But , but it 's an interesting question when you ask about Harris . I think they made a big tactical mistake by literally not talking to the press , even if a really friendly , I mean , and they had almost all friendly , somebody would come up with a really friendly -- like you guys , maybe -- but a friendly interview , and they turned everybody down . They would n't do the basic . And people , including me , would start to say , is there something wrong with her ? What 's wrong ? Why would n't you do some basic interviews ? And then she had some pretty failed interviews , and maybe it was highlighted more than it would . In other words , if she did those same interviews , but she did another 15 interviews , you know , you would n't have really noticed it that much . <h> Trump says releasing Project 2025 was " totally inappropriate " <p> During the campaign , Democrats hammered Trump and other Republicans over Project 2025 , a conservative effort to lay out a blueprint for a second Trump administration . Trump tried to distance himself from the final product , but many of its contributors worked in his first administration , and several have been named to powerful posts in his second term . <p> Trump told Time he did n't read the group 's work , and said its organizers should n't have released it during the campaign : <p> Time : During the campaign , you disavowed Project 2025 , but so far at least five people you 've appointed to top positions in your Cabinet have ties to it . Does n't that undermine what you told Americans on the campaign trail ? <p> Trump : No , look , I do n't -- I do n't disagree with everything in Project 2025 , but I disagree with some things . I specifically did n't want to read it because it was n't under my auspices , and I wanted to be able to say that , you know , the only way I can say I have nothing to do with it is if you do n't read it . I do n't want -- I did n't want to read it . I read enough about it . They have some things that are very conservative and very good . They have other things that I do n't like . I wo n't go into individual items , but I had nothing to do with Project 2025 . Now , if we had a few people that were involved , they had hundreds of them . This is a big document , from what I understand . <p> Time : More than 800 pages . <p> Trump : It 's a lot of pages . That 's a lot of pages . I thought it was inappropriate that they came out with it just before the election , to be honest with you . <p> Time : Really ? <p> Trump : I let them know , yeah , I did n't think it was appropriate , because it 's not me . Why would they do that ? They complicated my election by doing it because people tried to tie me and I did n't agree with everything in there , and some things I vehemently disagreed with , and I thought it was inappropriate that they would come out with a document like that prior to my election . <p> Time : Did you express those frustrations with them ? <p> Trump : Oh I did . It was n't a frustration , it was a fact . It 's totally inappropriate . They come up with an 800-page document , and the enemy , which is , you know , the other party , is allowed to go through and pick out two items , 12 items out of , you know , 800 . No , I thought it was an open -- I thought it was a very foolish thing for them to do . <p> Time : I understand , sir . <p> Trump : These are people that would like to see me win . And yet , they came out with this document , and they had some pretty ridiculous things in there . They also had some very good things in there . <h> Trump says transgender bathroom issue has " ripped apart our country " <p> During the campaign , Trump spent tens of millions of dollars on a television ad that highlighted Harris ' positions on transgender rights , specifically her support in 2019 for taxpayer-funded gender-affirming surgery for inmates and immigrant detainees . " Kamala 's for they/them . President Trump is for you , " the ad said . <p> But in his interview with Time , Trump downplayed fights over transgender rights , particularly which bathroom transgender people are allowed to use , saying the issue has " ripped apart our country " : <p> Time : Can I shift to the transgender issue ? Obviously , sort of a major issue during the campaign . In 2016 , you said that transgender people could use whatever bathroom they chose . Do you still feel that way ? <p> Trump : When was that ? <p> Time : In 2016 . <p> Trump : I do n't want to get into the bathroom issue . Because it 's a very small number of people we 're talking about , and it 's ripped apart our country , so they 'll have to settle whatever the law finally agrees . I am a big believer in the Supreme Court , and I 'm going to go by their rulings , and so far , I think their rulings have been rulings that people are going along with , but we 're talking about a very small number of people , and we 're talking about it , and it gets massive coverage , and it 's not a lot of people . <p> Time : But on that note , there 's a big fight on this in Congress now . The incoming trans member from Delaware , Sarah McBride , says we should all be focused on more important issues . Do you agree ? <p> Trump : I do agree with that . On that -- absolutely . As I was saying , it 's a small number of people . <p> Asked whether he would reverse the Biden administration 's protections for trans children under Title IX , Trump said , " I 'm going to look at it very closely . " <h> Trump on using military for deportations : " I will go up to the maximum level of what the law allows " <p> Turning to immigration , the Time journalists noted that federal law prohibits using the military as law enforcement on U.S. soil . They asked Trump how that squares with his promise to use the military to facilitate his mass deportation plans : <p> Time : You recently said on Truth Social that you plan to use the military to deport migrants . The Posse Comitatus Act prohibits the use of the military for domestic law enforcement . What will you do if the military does not or refuses to carry out your orders ? <p> Trump : Well , it does n't , it does n't stop the military if it 's an invasion of our country , and I consider it an invasion of our country . We have criminals coming into our countries that we 've never seen , we 've never seen before . We have people coming in at levels and at record numbers that we 've never seen before . And I 'll only do what the law allows , but I will go up to the maximum level of what the law allows . And I think in many cases , the sheriffs and law enforcement is going to need help . We 'll also get National Guard . We 'll get National Guard , and we 'll go as far as I 'm allowed to go , according to the laws of our country . <p> Musk 's various enterprises are regulated by or have contracts with federal agencies , raising the prospect that his work with DOGE would constitute a conflict of interest . Trump told Time he does n't think it does : <p> Time : You 've put Elon Musk in charge of DOGE , giving him the power to -- <p> Trump : Along with -- <p> Time : Along with Vivek Ramaswamy , yes , absolutely . But on Musk specifically , giving him the power to oversee the agencies that regulate his companies . Is n't that a conflict of interest ? <p> Trump : I do n't think so . Look , we have a country that is bloated with rules , regulations and with , frankly , people that are unnecessary to do . We are going to need a lot of people in a lot of other jobs . We 're looking to get people into private sector jobs where they can do better and be more productive . We 're going to see what happens . We have some interesting months coming up , at the beginning . We 're going to see what happens . But this country is bloated . <p> Time : I think everybody agrees that there 's waste in the federal government -- <p> Trump : Waste , fraud , and abuse . <p> Time : But Elon Musk is talking about cuts that would directly affect NASA , which would then directly affect SpaceX , his company . Is n't that the textbook definition of a conflict of interest ? <p> Trump : I think that Elon puts the country long before his company . I mean , he 's in a lot of companies , but he really is , and I 've seen it . He considers this to be his most important project , and he wanted to do it . And , you know , I think , I think he 's one of the very few people that would have the credibility to do it , but he puts the country before , and I 've seen it , before he puts his company . <h> Trump on Ukraine : " You ca n't reach an agreement if you abandon " <p> Trump has said he wants to broker a deal to end the war between Ukraine and Russia , and has harshly criticized the tens of billions of dollars of aid the U.S. has sent Kyiv since Russia 's invasion in 2022 . <p> Trump addressed fears from Democrats and European allies that he would abandon Ukraine or push the country to give up territory in any eventual peace deal : <p> Time : The question that many Americans and many people around the world have is , Will you abandon Ukraine ? <p> Trump : I want to reach an agreement , and the only way you 're going to reach an agreement is not to abandon . You understand what that means , right ? <p> Time : Right . Well , no , tell me . <p> Trump : Well , I just said it . You ca n't reach an agreement if you abandon , in my opinion . And I disagree with the whole thing , because it should have never happened . Putin would have never invaded Ukraine if I were president for numerous reasons . Number one , they drove up the oil price . When they drove up the oil price , they made it a profit-making situation for him , the oil price should have been driven down . If it was driven down , you would n't have had it would n't have started just for pure economic reasons . But when it hits $80 , $85 , and $90 a barrel . I mean , he made , he made a lot of money . I 'm not saying it 's a good thing , because he 's also suffered , but they are moving forward . You know , this is a war that 's been -- this is a tragedy . This is death that 's far greater than anyone knows . When the real numbers come out , you 're going to see numbers that you 're not going to believe . <h> Trump on Netanyahu and the war in Gaza : " He knows I want it to end " <p> Trump addressed the volatile situation in the Middle East , specifically the war in Gaza between Hamas and Israel . He said the Middle East is " an easier problem to handle than what 's happening with Russia and Ukraine " and " going to get solved . " <p> Trump declined to go into specifics about what he has discussed with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , but said he had made his position clear : <p> Time : Did Netanyahu give you assurances about when he would end the war ? <p> Trump : Um , I do n't want to say that , but I think he feels confident that -- I think he feels very confident in me , and I think he knows I want it to end . I want everything to end . I want , I do n't want people killed , you know ? I do n't want people from either side killed , and that includes whether it 's Russia , Ukraine , or whether it 's the Palestinians and the Israelis and all of the , you know , the different entities that we have in the Middle East . There 's so many different entities . But I do n't want people killed . <p> Time : When you say productive things are happening , can you be more specific ? <p> Trump : No , I ca n't . I mean , I 'd love to be , I would so love to be , but I ca n't . I will be . We 're going to sit down in a period of time , hopefully soon , and I 'll tell you all the things that are happening . But there are some very productive things happening . I do think -- okay , because I 'm looking at two , two primary fronts , right ? You have the Russia-Ukraine , and you have this , and there are other problems also . But look , when North Korea gets involved , that 's another element that 's a very complicating factor . And I know Kim Jong Un , I get along very well with Kim Jong Un . I 'm probably the only one he 's ever really dealt with . When you think about it , I am the only one he 's ever dealt with . But you have a lot of very bad complicating factors there , but we 'll sit down and we 'll at the end of each of these , or both , maybe simultaneously , we 'll sit down and I 'll show you what a good job I did . <p> Time : You mentioned the Palestinian people . In your first term , your administration put forward the most comprehensive plan for a two-state solution in a long time . Do you still support that plan ? <p> Trump : I support a plan of peace , and it can take different forms . When I did the Abraham Accords , that should have been loaded up with people , you know . I made a statement . I think they did n't add one country . Think of it . They did n't add one country to the Abraham Accords . We had the four countries , very important countries , but that should have been loaded up with Middle Eastern countries . <p> Time : Do you still support a two-state solution ? <p> Trump : I support whatever solution we can do to get peace . There are other ideas other than two state , but I support whatever , whatever is necessary to get not just peace , a lasting peace . It ca n't go on where every five years you end up in tragedy . There are other alternatives . <h> Does Trump trust Netanyahu ? " I do n't trust anybody " <p> After some more discussion about the Middle East and Iran , Time asked Trump whether he trusts the Israeli leader . Trump gave a blunt response : <p> Stefan Becket is a managing editor of politics for CBSNews.com . Stefan has covered national politics for more than a decade and helps oversee a team covering the White House , Congress , the Supreme Court , immigration and federal law enforcement . 
@@118800244 <h> The Dept . Head , Ammar Daloul , was reportedly a significant source of knowledge for the terrorist organization . <p> IDF infographic on terrorists killed in the strike on the compound that previously served as Al-Hurriya school on December 12 , 2024 ( photo credit : IDF SPOKESPERSON 'S UNIT ) <p> The IDF killed a department head in Hamas ' Manufacturing Headquarters , a company commander in the Zeitoun Battalion , as well as several terrorists operating within a command center in what used to be the Al-Hurriya School in Gaza City , it announced on Thursday evening . <p> The Dept . Head , Ammar Daloul , was reportedly a significant source of knowledge for the terrorist organization . <p> The Israeli air force ( IAF ) also killed Jihad Yassin , the company commander in the Zeitoun Battalion , the branch responsible for numerous attacks recently carried out against IDF troops . <h> Former strikes on schools <p> The IDF and Shin Bet , in a joint operation , eliminated Fahmi Salami , commander of Hamas 's Nukhba Brigade in its Zeitoun Battalion . He was responsible for the raid on the ' Paga ' outpost on October 7 , in which 14 IDF soldiers were killed . <p> He was killed by an IAF jet , under the command of the Gaza Division , while he was operating rom a building formerly used as the Al-Falah school . 
@@118800246 <h> While the exact contours of the proposed deal are vague , the agreement under discussion would be a partial one . <p> Shir Siegal , Levi and Varda Ben Baruch , whose family members are being held hostage by Hamas , gather outside the prime minister 's residence on October 7 , 2024 ( photo credit : MARC ISRAEL SELLEM ) <p> Hopes for the release of the hostages held by Hamas have been raised and cruelly dashed so often over the last 433 days that it would be irresponsible to think this time will be any different . <p> Still , some recent developments -- Hamas 's handing over a list of hostages and Shin Bet ( Israeli Security Agency ) head Ronen Bar and Chief of Staff Lt.-Gen . Herzi Halevi traveling to Cairo for talks -- indicate there is some motion . <p> Whether that motion can be translated into actual movement and whether Hamas will show flexibility -- US National Security Communications Advisor John Kirby said on Tuesday that the terrorist organization was the obstacle to a deal -- is still to be determined . <p> Nevertheless , renewed negotiations and talk about a possible deal is , after months of neither , still something . <p> While the exact contours of the proposed deal are vague , the agreement under discussion would be a partial one -- rather than a comprehensive deal carried out in stages . An Israeli hostage and her daughter are seen hugging an IDF officer amid their release from Hamas captivity on November 24 , 2023 ( credit : VIA MAARIV ONLINE ) <p> According to Arab media outlets , Hamas gave Egypt a list of 30 hostages who would be released during an initial 60-day ceasefire , at a rate of one hostage every two days . <p> These hostages include those who meet so-called " humanitarian " criteria , meaning those over 50 or who suffer from health problems . <p> The release of the remaining hostages , including soldiers , would be negotiated during the 60-day ceasefire period . <p> Hamas also gave a list of the terrorists it wants Israel to release as part of the deal . <p> Of the 256 hostages Hamas kidnapped on October 7 , 96 of them remain in captivity , including the bodies of 34 people confirmed dead by the IDF . <p> One hundred and five hostages were released during a temporary truce in November 2023 , another four were released before this truce , and eight have been rescued by IDF troops , bringing to 117 the number of hostages released over the last 14 months . <p> The IDF has also recovered the bodies of 38 hostages who were either killed in captivity or murdered on October 7 and whose bodies were taken into Gaza . <h> Families of hostages continue their fight <p> Among the families of the hostages , there are those , such as Einav Zangauker , the mother of Matan , who are opposed to a partial deal , saying that agreeing to release only some of the hostages is essentially sentencing those remaining , like her son , to death . <p> While we fully empathize with Zangauker and can not fathom the depth of her ongoing pain and concern , we believe that if there is a deal on the table now that will bring any of the hostages home , it is something that should be taken . <p> This is not abandoning those who will remain in cruel captivity , but rather saving those -- the elderly and the ill -- for whom every additional day in captivity endangers their lives . Israel must insist that the deal is structured in such a way that Hamas will have much to lose if , after releasing the 30 hostages on the list , it does not go forward and free the rest in further stages . <p> The motion regarding the hostages did not come out of nowhere ; instead , it was triggered by the shifting sands in the region that were not favorable to Hamas . <p> The ceasefire with Hezbollah in Lebanon , as well as the fall of Bashar al-Assad in Syria , means that Hamas is as isolated and cut off as it has ever been . Looking around the region , the terrorist organization can see no one coming to its rescue . <p> Furthermore , Hamas 's state supporters , Qatar and Turkey , are keen on getting on the good side of US President-elect Donald Trump , who has let it be known that he expects the hostages to be released by the time he enters office on January 20 or there would be " all hell to pay in the Middle East . " <p> With Hamas in Gaza largely defanged as evidenced by its desperate rocket launches on Wednesday to flex muscle ahead of negotiations -- and with Hezbollah , Syria , and Iran showing no interest or capacity to come to its aid , the chances of brokering a deal now appear better than in recent weeks . The addition of Trump 's deadline , accompanied by a clear warning , adds further pressure . <p> While these developments are encouraging , the hard and painful truth remains that a hostage deal with Hamas can only be believed when seen . 
@@118800250 <h> Anti-Zionist rhetoric : Loud but fundamentally flawed - opinion <h> Why do educated Jews turn so against their own people while an Italian Catholic sees the same matter with a totally different clarity ? <p> PEOPLE PROTEST in Berlin outside Humboldt University in support of Israel and against antisemitism , in October . The charge that Israel is perpetrating a genocide is culturally rooted , springing from antisemitic tropes , Cold War politics , and settler-colonial academic theory , insists the writer . ( photo credit : REUTERS ) <p> There are some very angry people who are in a rage and who are involved in being very unfavorable to Israel and Zionism , lately . It 's the trend of anti-Israelism . <p> IfNotNow has publicized that it " is happy to support In Our Name , " a new group engaged in a fundraising campaign that rejects US military funding going to Israel 's military operations against terrorists while pooh-poohing that these actions by Israel could be " in the name of ' Jewish safety . ' " They wish to invest their " resources , in our name as Jews , in supporting Palestinian communities to thrive with freedom , dignity , and self-determination . " <p> In the first 72 hours of its existence , IfNotNow claims to have raised $45,000 . I do not know if they have a financial oversight committee but one can only hope that this Palestine Children 's Relief Fund effort will succeed where no other funder of activities for Palestine has not -- which is to prevent charity monies seeping off in direct or indirect support for terror . <p> Arie M. Dubnov is chair of Israel Studies and director of the Middle East Program at George Washington University , which was endowed by Susie Gelman 's foundation . Incidentally , or not , her daughter is the infamous Rachel who has been a major funder of the Palestinian Youth Movement and other anti-Zionists . Dubnov 's current book research project , tentatively titled " Dreamers of the Third Empire/Temple , " examines ties between Zionist and British imperial thinkers . Anti-Israel protestors make anti-Zionist claims at a BDS rally in Chicago , Illinois ( credit : FLICKR ) <h> Discourse manipulation <p> Dubnov recently published an article in Haaretz suggesting that right-wing academics are " manipulating the discourse " in the " debate over US Jewish identity " and thus are forcing academics " to display loyalty to Israel -- or stay silent . " <p> He is convinced that the allegation that there is sweeping " persecution of Jews and Israelis " on American campuses " is distorted and serves the gutter politics of the contemporary Right . " <p> And to include one non-Jew , for diversity , the Fontaines D.C. are an Irish post-punk band . Member " Curley " Carlos O'Connell plays guitar . They won the Album Award at the Rolling Stone UK Awards 2024 on November 28 with Romance . In his short appreciation of thanks , Curley managed but to mumble , " I 'm just gon na say : Free Palestine . Free Palestine , free Palestine . F*** Netanyahu and f*** Zionism . Free Palestine . " <p> They are all so angry . <p> WE ARE seeing and hearing a crescendo of **37;3306;TOOLONG fervor that purports to being opposed to actions supposedly taken by Israel . Those actions , committed in its defense , following an invasion of a portion of its territory and the slaughter , torture , rape , and hostage-taking of its citizens , residents , and visitors , have been twisted to fit a new definition , pushed by Amnesty International , of genocide . <p> It is not only Western liberals who have turned on the Jews . What can explain Omer Bartov , Brown University professor of Holocaust and Genocide Studies , calling Israel 's Gaza military campaign a " genocide operation " ? In a counter-balance , Italy 's Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Antonio Tajani said that , while he might not agree with how Israel is conducting its war against Hamas in Gaza , what is happening in the enclave does not amount to genocide . <p> Why do educated Jews turn so against their own people while an Italian Catholic sees the same matter with a totally different clarity ? Why do university officials and educators adopt such radical attitudes as what Zahava Feldstein , a post-graduate doctoral candidate , was told by a Stanford University dean : " Zionists are the in-group upon which white supremacy depends . " <p> Feldstein was developing a curriculum for Jewish high school students . The dean suggested that Feldstein " frame Zionism for them as a white supremacist project . " <p> Of course , when the owner-publisher of Haaretz insists that there exists an apartheid regime in Israel and lets slip that the Arab terrorists are basically " freedom fighters , " one begins to grasp that there is an echo of times past as when Nicolas Donin denounced the Talmud in the 13th century to Pope Gregory IX . That resulted in the 1242 burning of the thousands of holy tomes in Paris . <p> The other side is organizing . They have been doing so for a while , as can be gleaned from this admission now of a British academic , forced to remain anonymous : <p> " Ever since the late 1960s , higher education in the West has been infiltrated by a steady stream of nefarious actors , who claim victimhood and make allegations of ' Islamophobia ' on the one hand and spout racist hate speech against Jews on the other . " <p> Higher education has been replaced by lower education , an example of which is Genocide Bad , a forthcoming book by Sim Kern ( she is a " they " ) . It " confronts Zionist propaganda head-on " with notes on Palestine , Jewish history , and collective liberation , a " collection of 10 unapologetic essays . " It is 200 pages long . A younger generation is being spoon-fed lies , misrepresentations , and insidious insanity . <p> As Norman Goda , a professor of Holocaust Studies at the University of Florida , has pointed out in a Quillette podcast , the charge that Israel is perpetrating a genocide is culturally rooted , springing " from antisemitic tropes of Jewish bloody-mindedness , Cold War politics , settler-colonial academic theory , and the melding of international law with political activism . " <p> NGO Monitor has documented this slide into irrational despising of Jews who insist we are a nation , possessing a national identity with a historical heritage over 3,000 years old . It is a Jewish legacy of religion , culture , literature , community customs and an actual historical record attested to by those we engaged with , for good or for worse . <p> An early 2022 Amnesty International embargoed draft report declared that Israel 's " system of apartheid originated with the creation of Israel in May 1948 " -- as if Israel 's very existence is an original sin . At the time , US Amnesty International director Paul O'Brien said , " We are opposed to the idea ... that Israel should be preserved as a state for the Jewish people . " <p> No other state , and certainly no Islamic nation , is similarly treated . We Jews are n't permitted to be like other humans . The angry anti-Zionists will yet be very sorry . <p> The writer is a researcher , analyst , and commentator on political , cultural , and media issues . 
@@118800255 <h> An Israeli cafe chain launched by and for Oct. 7 survivors is expanding to more cities <h> The first branch opened as a pop-up in Tel Aviv 's glitzy Sarona complex , staffed by residents of Netiv Haasara , one of the communities targeted in the massacre . <p> By DEBORAH DANAN/JTA DECEMBER 12 , 2024 22:33 <p> Reut Karp , whose ex-husband was murdered on Oct. 7 , 2023 , in front of their children , shows off art connected to the massacre at Cafe Otef , the Tel Aviv coffee shop she manages in his honor. ( photo credit : DEBORAH DANAN/JTA ) <p> A woman with a gaunt face and ripped pajama pants ambles into Cafe Otef , nestled in an up-and-coming yet still gritty corner of Tel Aviv 's Florentin neighborhood . She gestures to the water dispenser , and Ziv Hai , a worker at the cafe , obliges with a glass while owner Reut Karp offers her a cigarette . <p> " We do n't have them in our region , " Hai said about apparently unhoused people . " Learning how to navigate that has also been part of the journey . " <p> Hai was far from home because the cafe is no ordinary establishment . Founded by Tamir Barelko , a serial entrepreneur in the culinary world , it is the second in the Cafe Otef chain -- " Otef " referring to the " envelope " region of Israel bordering Gaza that Hamas terrorists invaded on Oct. 7 , 2023 . <p> The first branch opened as a pop-up in Tel Aviv 's glitzy Sarona complex , staffed by residents of Netiv Haasara , one of the communities targeted in the massacre . This branch , named Cafe Otef-Re'im , honors the kibbutz of the same name , where 80 terrorists invaded , killing seven residents and kidnapping four . The kibbutz was also next to where the Nova music festival massacre took place . <h> Staffed by displaced residents <p> Staffed entirely by displaced residents from the battered communities in the south , the cafe offers a wide range of goods from that region : cheeses from Be'eri , honey from Kibbutz Erez , jams , spreads , granola and specialty cakes , alongside branded items such T-shirts , water bottles , and aprons -- all sourced from small producers affected by the massacre . Cafe Otef-Re'im is the flagship in a growing chain that honors and benefits communities ravaged by Hamas ' Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack on Israel . ( credit : DEBORAH DANAN/JTA ) <p> But the piece de resistance is the chocolate , crafted from recipes by Dvir Karp , the owner 's late ex-husband , who was murdered on Oct. 7 in front of their children , then ages 10 and 8 . <p> Reut Karp said that during the pandemic , " when we all thought we were going to die , " she had urged her ex-husband to write down his chocolate recipes . Despite his initial resistance -- insisting he had them all in his head -- he eventually complied . After his murder , Karp felt a profound responsibility to preserve his legacy . She believes Dvir would have been proud of her posthumous rebranding of his chocolates , including a new logo inspired by the luxury brand Cartier , though she joked he would " probably say I went overboard . " <p> Most of Re'im 's residents were evacuated to nearby apartment buildings in Florentin , while Hai , who is from a different kibbutz close to Egypt , was initially relocated with his family to Ofakim , a small city near Beersheba . In April , he moved to Tel Aviv , where he said he experienced an intense culture shock . <p> " At first , I was like , what the hell am I doing here , and I just wanted to move back , " he said . Over time , however , he adjusted to city life , finding a sense of belonging through his work at the cafe , which opened in the summer . <p> " I feel like I left a piece of myself behind in Sufa , and here in Tel Aviv , I 'm trying to rebuild myself anew . The cafe gives me a place where I can feel comfortable , " he said . " I can tell a dark joke , and everyone here -- because they 're also from the south -- gets it . " <p> Karp , who co-owns another cafe featuring Dvir 's chocolates in Israel 's south , was approached by Barelko to manage the Re'im branch . She declined , citing her responsibilities to her three children who are still coping with the trauma of the attack ( Karp herself was away for the weekend of Oct. 7 ) . Determined to involve her , Barelko appointed managers to handle daily operations , allowing Karp to serve as the owner and hostess . <p> The role proved a perfect fit for Karp , who expressed gratitude for having a reason to get up each day . <p> " So many times over the past six months , I 've said , thank God I have this place that forces me out of bed . And all the workers say the same thing , " she shared , highlighting one employee who had lost his entire family in the attack . <p> The cafe has become a gathering place for those directly impacted by the events of Oct. 7 -- survivors of the Nova music festival , bereaved parents and others -- while also offering a space for those not directly affected to engage with their stories and find meaning . " They want to feel a sense of connection and to know it 's not just a gimmick , " Karp said . <p> " People always say Tel Avivians are living in a bubble -- sitting in coffee shops while soldiers are fighting and hostages are trapped in Hamas tunnels , " she added . " But here , people let themselves enjoy coffee without the guilt . " <h> Meeting point for evacuees <p> The cafe 's location in the center of the country has also made it a natural meeting point for evacuees from both Israel 's north and south who have been relocated to the city . Karp noted the unique camaraderie that has formed between the two groups , describing it as a shared understanding of what it means to be displaced within their own country . <p> As if on cue , an older woman from Kibbutz Manara in the north approached and chatted with Karp about her recent visit to her kibbutz -- the first since the ceasefire agreement with Hezbollah in late November . Their laughter seemed out of place given the context of the conversation , with the older woman remarking that it would take " at least a decade " to rebuild the kibbutz . Over 70% of the homes in Manara have been damaged , with rocket fragments still scattered across the area , prompting some residents to compare it to Chernobyl . <p> The two hug before the older woman walks away -- a scene that plays out repeatedly throughout the afternoon . <p> " Some people recognize me from TV but hesitate to ask questions or offer a hug , " Karp said . " But that contact is like a human charger for me . " <p> Around 100 of Re'im 's 450 residents have returned home . Yet , according to Karp , many of their temporary neighbors in Tel Aviv feel conflicted about their departure . " On the one hand , they 're happy for us to go back home , but on the other , they want us to stay because our presence here has put a face to Oct. 7 , " she said . <p> The red anemone , or kalanit -- Israel 's national flower , ubiquitous in the region of Re'im -- is equally ubiquitous at the cafe , embroidered on staff uniforms , printed on takeaway cups , and displayed on ceramic items for sale . But otherwise , there are few overt signs of the cafe 's deeper purpose . One less obvious sign comes in an innocuous poster on the wall , its tiny spiral text easy to miss . <p> Created by Adi Drimer , an art teacher from Re'im , the artwork contains the haunting text messages sent in the kibbutz WhatsApp group on Oct. 7 . Karp points out her own chilling plea from that day , begging other kibbutz members to rescue her children : " Urgent ! Urgent ! Daria and Lavi are alone , " read her text . " Dvir was murdered . " <p> Karp said the decision to avoid making the cafe overtly about the massacre was deliberate , respecting those who prefer to keep their coffee and grief separate . <p> " We also do n't want to sink into the sadness of it all , " she said . " This is a place for renewal , and when people see us moving forward , it inspires them . " <p> Barelko has big plans for the chain . Two new branches are set to open in the coming weeks : one in Rehovot , called Cafe Otef -- Sderot , for residents of the southern town , and a misnomered Cafe Otef -- Kiryat Shmona , paying tribute to those evacuated from the northern town for 14 months . <p> He also plans to introduce food trucks at various locations across the country and expand the initiative to include employment for soldiers disabled in the war , whose numbers are estimated in the thousands . <p> " In the end , we realized this is the best approach to rehabilitation . It builds both hope and resilience , " he said . 
@@118800258 <h> Kantor praised the resilience of Israel 's injured soldiers : " Thanks to these young adults , we shall rebuild what has been destroyed . " <p> Kantor was presented with a special award for her efforts : " We shall rebuild what has been destroyed . " ( photo credit : Elliot La-Mer - DEMAGIC ) <p> At the Jerusalem Post 's 2024 Miami Summit , philanthropist and founder of the " Lev Esh " foundation , Olessia Kantor , delivered a powerful speech honoring the resilience and courage of Israeli soldiers wounded in the recent war in Lebanon and Gaza . <p> For her invaluable work , Kantor - also part of the Jerusalem Post 's 5o Most Influential Jews list for 2024 - was presented with a special award for entrepreneurship and philanthropy . " Olessia Kantor has been working to aid those suffering from the deep wounds of trauma caused by October 7 , " said Deputy Editor-in-Chief Tamar Uriel-Beeri , " Tonight , we recognize her vital effort to heal the nation . " <p> Drawing from her personal experiences , Kantor spoke of the extraordinary strength embodied by these warriors , framing their journeys as a testament to the human spirit . " And ask about the first association that the word " injury " brings up , you would most likely find various answers , among others : Difficulty , pain , hospitalization , " she began . <p> " But after spending the last year with injured soldiers , my answer is two words : spirit and resurgence , " Kantor noted how these soldiers remain steadfast in their commitment despite immense physical and emotional scars . Kantor shared the stories of two such heroes . <p> Lieutenant Roei Yaaran , who lost both legs in battle , attended his brigade 's graduation ceremony to present green berets . " Roei has been spending long months in recovery , " she said , " surviving immense pain . Yet , somehow manages to give strength to everyone he comes across . " <p> She also recounted the journey of Sergeant Major Michelle Rokovitzin , the most critically injured soldier , who fought her way back from a coma and recently accepted a surprise marriage proposal . " Not a single person believed she would make it , but Michelle fought against all odds . " <p> Reflecting on her foundation 's mission , Kantor described " Lev Esh " as a source of support for both physical and psychological wounds . " Among the wounded , " she said , " There are those who are not acknowledged as such , and the scars in their souls are of the deepest , most painful kind . " <p> Kantor shared her admiration for their resilience and described them as symbols of inspiration and national resurgence . " Thanks to these young adults , " she concluded , " We shall rebuild what has been destroyed . With this spirit , The rebirth we have all been wishing for will come true . " 
@@118800259 <p> Jerusalem Post Editor-in-Chief Zvika Klein presented Dubi Weissenstern , CEO of ZAKA , with the Heroism Award at the Jerusalem Post Miami Summit on Tuesday evening . ZAKA , established in 1995 , is Israel 's leading non-governmental rescue and recovery organization , with more than 3,000 volunteers throughout the country . Upon receiving the award , Weissenstern said , " I am very emotional , and I could cry , but today I choose to smile . This award strengthens and encourages our volunteers to continue their work daily . " <p> On October 7 , ZAKA volunteers arrived at the Gaza border communities , risking their lives while being pursued by terrorists armed with automatic weapons . ZAKA volunteers stayed in the field , provided emergency response services , worked tirelessly searching for victims , and helped manage the aftermath , assisting families in finding closure and participating in recovery and documentation efforts . <p> In the past year , Weissenstern established ZAKA 's Resilience Unit , which provides a comprehensive framework of mental health support for its volunteers . ZAKA has begun a fundraising campaign to raise $100 million for the creation of a global network of Volunteer Resilience Centers . These centers will provide mental health support not only to ZAKA volunteers but to the entire community of first responders and their families . They will evolve into hubs for research and development of innovative methods to strengthen resilience in first responder communities , and will establish knowledge and treatment protocols that will eventually be taught as a " battle doctrine " for emergency teams worldwide . 
@@118807442 <h> A St. Louis troop 's breakup with Girl Scouts leads to national launch of Salam Scouts <p> From left : Zainab Abdul-Khaliq , Sidra Alsabbagh , Habiba Ellebedy , Mariyah Abdelbaset , Talyah Alkhiyat and Fatima Shariff roast halal marshmallows to make s'mores during a meeting of four Salam Scouts troops at the Islamic Foundation of Greater St. Louis on Nov. 16 . About 176 Muslim children across four states have joined 21 new troops following a fallout with the Girl Scouts organization over a bracelet fundraiser to aid children in Gaza . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> Kids ran across the dark field behind the mosque toward a pile of trash . They had to quickly decide if an egg carton belonged in the recycle , compost or trash bin . Then , each one ran back to the kids waiting to continue the relay race . <p> " We need to go one at a time , " Nawal Abuhamdeh called out over the noisy din of about 40 young children . <p> " We can not have chaos ! " <p> It was a little chaotic at their first scouting event that combined several newly formed troops from the St. Louis area . <p> In January , the girls in Abuhamdeh 's Girl Scouts troop were heartbroken over the killing and devastation in Gaza . They started a bracelet-making fundraiser to help with urgent humanitarian needs for children trapped in the relentless bombardment . <p> Abuhamdeh , a Palestinian American mother of four in St. Louis County , had seen Girl Scout fundraisers for other war victims . But in their case , the regional council sent her emails saying that the activity violated their policies and ordered them to remove all Girl Scout branding from their flyers or face legal action . <p> Members of the former Girl Scout Troop 149 make bracelets as a fundraiser for children affected by violence in Gaza , at the Dar Al Jalal Masjid Mosque in Hazelwood on Saturday , March 2 , 2024 . <p> Vanessa Abbitt , Post-Dispatch <p> She shared her experience with the Post-Dispatch , and it quickly attracted international media attention . Their bracelet campaign raised nearly $26,000 in donations for one of the worst humanitarian crises in the world . Within days , the national Girl Scouts organization apologized for the regional council 's legal threat . The treatment from the regional council led Abuhamdeh 's troop to disband from the Girl Scouts of Eastern Missouri . <p> But Abuhamdeh , who had led her daughter 's troop for five years , was n't ready to give up on scouting . <p> " I valued Girl Scouts so much because I saw the skill development scouting offers , " she said . In a small WhatsApp group she shared with three other moms , she wrote that she wanted to find a way to keep her daughter 's troop going . <p> " I think we need to start something , " she wrote . <p> " We are ready , " Melissa Saunders , of Manchester , responded . " Just lead the way , and we are coming . " <h> Charting a new path <p> Saunders ' oldest daughter became a fourth generation Girl Scout when she joined Abuhamdeh 's troop in second grade . Saunders , her mom and grandmother were all part of military families , who moved frequently . The troops she belonged to growing up were all Christian and white . <p> " There was no diversity , for sure , " she says . She wanted her children , who are also of Pakistani heritage , to have a sense of community . She was upset by the " bracelet fiasco , " as she described it . <p> " As Muslims , it just felt like another hit , " Saunders says . But then , the support started pouring in from around the country and the world . More than a hundred Girl Scout troop leaders signed a petition in support of their fundraising activity . Abuhamdeh , who had felt isolated and scared to speak out about her views growing up , did daily news interviews for two weeks straight . They received so many encouraging emails and letters , some of which included checks for the girls to keep up their activities even after disbanding . <p> " It restored my faith in humanity , " Abuhamdeh said . <p> She opened a bank account and reached out to attorney Azra Ahmad , with Mid-America Law Practice , about starting a nonprofit . Ahmad asked her what she wanted to call it . <p> At that moment , the name came to her . <p> " Salam Scouts , " she said . <p> From left : Nour Abualregal , 9 , Zainab Abdul-Khaliq , 10 , Mariam Shariff , 10 , and Rahma Ellebedy , 10 , eat pizza before a roaring fire pit during a meeting of four Salam Scouts troops at the Islamic Foundation of Greater St. Louis on Nov. 16 . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> She figured she and the three other moms in her WhatsApp group would each lead a troop . Then , in July , she received a call from another mom , who had heard about the Salam Scouts troops that had formed . <p> " I 'm in California , and I have a group of moms who are not going back to Girl Scouts , and we need something to do . " <p> Abuhamdeh decided to take her fledgling scouts group national . They had volunteers interested in starting troops in Texas , California and Michigan . A couple of educators in California offered to help write the curriculum . They would unveil one new badge a month . <p> Some of the emails Abuhamdeh received were from other independent scouting organizations offering guidance and encouragement . Groups like the Radical Monarchs , Life Guides , American Heritage Girls , Frontier Girls , Spiral Scouts , Quest Scouts , Campfire Scouts , Earth Scouts , Navigators USA and Adventure Scouts are all independent scouting organizations . <p> Friends advised Abuhamdeh to take it slowly and launch it next year . She decided to start in October . <p> " We 're a baby organization , " she said . " They will give us grace . " <p> Initially , there were some technical glitches with their portal and registration site . They are still waiting on their uniforms . <p> But they 've already got 21 troops in four states with 176 children registered and many on waiting lists . They are actively recruiting more volunteers to lead troops . <h> Making new friends <p> Iyla Mufti , 9 , joined a Salam Scout troop at Al Salam Day School in West County . She participated in a meeting where the scouts made cupcakes for a new friend in the group . <p> " I like how they are trying to encourage us to make new friends and meet new people , " she said . Her mom , Mehwish Bilal , grew up in Pakistan and had never been part of a scouting group . She appreciates that this organization shares her religious values . <p> " When it 's prayer time , they stop and pray together , " she said . <p> Fazila Bobat was already running an independent scouting troop for Muslim boys in St. Louis when she encouraged Abuhamdeh to also take the leap . She had grown up in Zambia and the UK and wanted to give her children opportunities she had n't had . She leads about 16 school-aged boys in her troop , and they have done activities like canoeing , fishing , woodworking and leather working . <p> Bobat decided to join forces and come on board as a troop leader for Salam Scouts . <p> " I was very excited and hopeful for this opportunity for our kids , " she said . <p> Saunders , who also transitioned from a Girl Scouts leader to Salam Scouts , said her troop has girls from an array of backgrounds -- Syrian , Pakistani , Indian , Somali , Palestinian , Egyptian , and white American , like herself . <p> " These girls do n't care where they are from ; they just love each other , " she said . <p> She added that the experience of leaving a large , established organization to start something new taught all of them valuable lessons . They realized that their message meant something to more people than they ever anticipated . <p> None of them regrets the decision to leave the Girl Scouts . <p> " There really is good in everything , and you just have to find it , " she said . <p> Yumi Ota grew up in Japan , came to the United States as a graduate student and lives in Ellisville . Two of her children have joined the Salam Scouts . <p> Ota knew Abuhamdeh before the Girl Scout controversy began . At first , she was worried about her friend 's safety . She saw trolls doxxing her online , posting her personal information and kids ' information and calling her a terrorist . <p> " Instead of running away , she decided to step forward , " Ota said . " She created something positive out of that hate and attention . " <p> She was inspired by Abuhamdeh 's resolve and commitment . <p> " It shows the Palestinian spirit , " she said . <p> Salam Scouts includes both girls as boys , such as Ahmad Kiwan , 8 , who prays with his father Wissam Kiwan at the Islamic Foundation of Greater St. Louis mosque on Saturday , Nov. 16 , 2024 . Ahmad , a second grader , is a member of Salam Scouts Troop 138 . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <h> Leading the way <p> Abuhamdeh 's dream is to see the organization continue to grow and thrive . <p> " I want to be in every mosque , every Islamic school , every Muslim community so there is a nationwide network of troops , and we equip them with the skills they need to be leaders . " <p> They are planning events like a potluck iftar , a Ramadan Bazaar and fundraiser , a charity walk and an advocacy day to learn how to become more civically engaged . <p> On a recent Saturday , all four local troops gathered at West Florissant Mosque in north St. Louis to volunteer with Project Downtown , a group that serves the local community with free meals and winter coats . <p> Nawal Abuhamdeh shares what led her to create a new independent scouting organization . <p> Troop leader Melissa Saunders , left , helps Serena Wadalawala as she puts homemade food in the carryout boxes . She and Zainab Abdul-Khaliq , right , participated in a recent Salam Scout activity to distribute free meals in north St. Louis . <p> The younger scouts sat at a long table with construction paper and markers , making cards to put inside the winter jackets that would be distributed next week . They wrote messages on the disposable boxes that would each be filled with the salad , macaroni and cheese with beef , fruit and dessert . <p> One girl wrote , " I hope you enjoy your meal . We support you ! " <p> An imam offered a short talk on the importance of serving those who need help in their communities . Abuhamdeh walked around the tables , making sure each child was engaged in an activity . She helped bring in the trays of food the troop leaders had prepared for the 150 or so lunches that would be distributed . <p> She stopped to chat with parents and the troop leaders helping oversee the activities . This time , their combined event moved more smoothly than the first big event at the mosque . <p> Slowly yet surely , they are finding their way . <p> Rahma Ellebedy , 10 , eats a s'more she made with halal marshmallows during a meeting of four Salam Scouts troops at the Islamic Foundation of Greater St. Louis on Saturday , Nov. 16 , 2024 . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> Zainab Abdul-Khaliq , 10 , gets help blowing out her s'more-making stick from Nour Abualregal , 9 , right , during a meeting of four Salam Scouts troops at the Islamic Foundation of Greater St. Louis on Saturday , Nov. 16 , 2024 . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> The Salam Scouts partnered with Project Downtown to make about 150 carryout meals that are distributed for free every Saturday from 11 a.m. until 12:30 p.m. near West Florissant Mosque in St. Louis . <p> Aisha Sultan , Post-Dispatch <p> Salam Scouts made cards to put in the pockets of jackets that will be distributed to the homeless in St. Louis this winter . <p> Fawaz Nihlawi , left , leader of Salam Scouts Troops 139 and 157 , works to get two fire pits burning , one for girls and the other for boys , during a meeting of four troops at the Islamic Foundation of Greater St. Louis on Saturday , Nov. 16 , 2024 . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> Salam Scouts Troop 157 members Hamza Salam , left , and Marwan Kabbani blow out Hamza 's blazing halal marshmallow as they make s'mores during a meeting of four troops at the Islamic Foundation of Greater St. Louis on Saturday , Nov. 16 , 2024 . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> Reema Alrata , 10 , warms her hands on a fire during a meeting of four Salam Scouts troops at the Islamic Foundation of Greater St. Louis on Saturday , Nov. 16 , 2024 . About 176 Muslim children across four states have joined 21 new troops following a fallout with the Girl Scouts organization over a bracelet fundraiser to aid children in Gaza . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> Fawaz Nihlawi , leader of Salam Scouts Troops 139 and 157 , works to get fire pits burning , one for girls and the other for boys , during a meeting of four troops at the Islamic Foundation of Greater St. Louis on Saturday , Nov. 16 , 2024 . The girls belong to Troops 149 and 151 . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> Members of former Girl Scout Troop 149 talk about the importance of doing what they believe is right , fundraising for children affected by violence in Gaza , at a bracelet making session at the Dar Al Jalal Masjid Mosque in Hazelwood on Saturday , March 2 , 2024 . Video by Vanessa Abbitt , **25;1766;TOOLONG <p> Salam Scouts includes both girls as boys , such as Ahmad Kiwan , 8 , who prays with his father Wissam Kiwan at the Islamic Foundation of Greater St. Louis mosque on Saturday , Nov. 16 , 2024 . Ahmad , a second grader , is a member of Salam Scouts Troop 138 . <p> Troop leader Melissa Saunders , left , helps Serena Wadalawala as she puts homemade food in the carryout boxes . She and Zainab Abdul-Khaliq , right , participated in a recent Salam Scout activity to distribute free meals in north St. Louis . <p> From left : Zainab Abdul-Khaliq , Sidra Alsabbagh , Habiba Ellebedy , Mariyah Abdelbaset , Talyah Alkhiyat and Fatima Shariff roast halal marshmallows to make s'mores during a meeting of four Salam Scouts troops at the Islamic Foundation of Greater St. Louis on Nov. 16 . About 176 Muslim children across four states have joined 21 new troops following a fallout with the Girl Scouts organization over a bracelet fundraiser to aid children in Gaza . <p> Reema Alrata , 10 , warms her hands on a fire during a meeting of four Salam Scouts troops at the Islamic Foundation of Greater St. Louis on Saturday , Nov. 16 , 2024 . About 176 Muslim children across four states have joined 21 new troops following a fallout with the Girl Scouts organization over a bracelet fundraiser to aid children in Gaza . <p> Zainab Abdul-Khaliq , 10 , gets help blowing out her s'more-making stick from Nour Abualregal , 9 , right , during a meeting of four Salam Scouts troops at the Islamic Foundation of Greater St. Louis on Saturday , Nov. 16 , 2024 . <p> Fawaz Nihlawi , left , leader of Salam Scouts Troops 139 and 157 , works to get two fire pits burning , one for girls and the other for boys , during a meeting of four troops at the Islamic Foundation of Greater St. Louis on Saturday , Nov. 16 , 2024 . <p> Salam Scouts Troop 157 members Hamza Salam , left , and Marwan Kabbani blow out Hamza 's blazing halal marshmallow as they make s'mores during a meeting of four troops at the Islamic Foundation of Greater St. Louis on Saturday , Nov. 16 , 2024 . <p> Fawaz Nihlawi , leader of Salam Scouts Troops 139 and 157 , works to get fire pits burning , one for girls and the other for boys , during a meeting of four troops at the Islamic Foundation of Greater St. Louis on Saturday , Nov. 16 , 2024 . The girls belong to Troops 149 and 151. 
@@118830854 <h> Recommended <h> Douglas Murray : After Syrian rebels force Assad out , the Iranian regime could be the next one to collapse <p> A worker tears down the pictures of Syria 's Bashar al-Assad , former Syrian President Hafez al-Assad , Lebanon 's late Hezbollah leader Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah and Iran 's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei at a gas station in Nubl . REUTERS <p> The dominos are falling in the Middle East , and the last one may be about to topple . <p> For the past 45 years , the Revolutionary Islamic Government in Iran has been the main destabilizing force in the region , against pretty stiff competition.The ayatollahs have colonized vast swaths of the Middle East , though you wo n't hear the dolts on American college campuses hollering about that . <p> For decades the mullahs moved their armies into Lebanon . After the vacuum left by American-led intervention in Iraq , they moved their militias there . <p> They also moved into Yemen . <p> And for the past 13 years , they propped up their ally Bashar al-Assad in Syria . <p> But then Iran 's proxy army Hamas invaded Israel . The ayatollahs hoped to wipe out the Jewish state . But that did n't go as well as they planned . In fact , it has backfired completely . <h> See Also <p> They have n't yet dared retaliate for the last Israeli strike -- probably because they know that this time , the response might herald the end not just of their oil fields and nuclear ambitions , but of their revolutionary regime altogether . <p> President-elect Donald Trump and his pick for national security adviser , Mike Waltz , have made it clear America does not want to get involved in another round of Middle East wars . <p> But as Israel has already shown , you do n't need to get tangled up on the ground to affect the future of the region . <p> You just need to use the force and deterrent effect of the American military to weigh in when you have to . <p> The Israeli air force once again showed this week how that can be done . <p> At the beginning of the week , the Israelis took out almost the entirety of the Syrian air force and navy . <p> In a stunning set of attacks , they also took out Assad 's chemical weapons facilities before the jihadist groups that have taken control of Syria could get their hands on them . <p> And that is the sort of pinpoint action America can also take part in . <p> The Trump team is rightly wary of repeating America 's experience in trying to govern postwar Afghanistan and Iraq . <p> They know the Middle East is like quicksand , dragging in any army that starts to operate there . <p> But American troops do not have to be engaged in the region for the incoming administration to make the final difference . <p> Trump and Waltz have already made it plain they intend to put sanctions back on Iran . <p> They have said they will stop the genius Biden-Blinken policy of handing over billions of dollars in cash to the terrorists in Tehran . <p> Trump and Waltz are right to stop it . <p> It is best for America and the whole world to have the mullahs begging . <p> And America can help increase that loneliness . <h> Not just Israel 's job <p> It should n't be up to the Israelis alone to ensure that chemical and other weapons do n't fall into the hands of terrorists . <p> Joe Biden and his team may have handed over billions of dollars of the world 's best weaponry to the Taliban in the bungled US withdrawal from Afghanistan . <p> But that 's a mistake that should not be repeated . <p> Neither America nor any other Western power can do much to affect the governance of postwar Syria . <p> But we can make it clear whose side we are on . <p> For instance , President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey this week also used the vacuum in Syria to send his forces into the country . <p> Turkey is a member of NATO . <p> But as I have said here before , it is outrageous that an ally of the United States should repeatedly -- whether in Gaza or Syria -- side with anti-Western terrorists . <p> If Erdogan wants to continue in his effort to be the biggest , best extremist in the region , he can do so . <p> But he should not be in NATO . <p> As well as backing Israel in its act of self-defense , there is another idea that the incoming Trump administration should consider . <p> It is highly likely that Syria will split apart . <p> And if that 's the case , this is as good a time as any to ? reward the people in the region who most deserve a state and who have n't yet gotten one . <p> The Kurdish people are spread across several countries , including Iraq and Syria . <p> They have been steadfast Western allies for years . <p> When the US and other countries wanted to wipe out ISIS 10 years ago , we did so with massive bombing campaigns from the air . 
@@118831643 <h> What the polio vaccine has meant for public health <p> In this April 1955 file photo , first and second-graders at St. Vibiana 's school are inoculated against polio with the Salk vaccine in Los Angeles.Associated Press <p> On the day in 1955 that Jonas Salk 's polio vaccine was pronounced " 80 to 90% effective " against the form of the disease that caused paralysis , 500 medical scientists and 150 reporters jammed into an auditorium at the University of Michigan for the announcement . Pots clanged , horns honked , and factory whistles blew around the country . <p> In the seven decades since , polio -- a disease that once killed or paralyzed more than half a million people around the world each year -- has been vanquished in the United States . <p> Experts say the move would be disastrous because the polio virus is still around . <p> Advertisement <p> " We would have big outbreaks of polio , " warned Dr. Walter Orenstein , who ran immunization programs for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in the late 1980s and 1990s . Because some people infected with polio are asymptomatic , Orenstein said , the virus could spread through the population unnoticed -- until people started getting paralyzed . <p> Get Starting Point <p> A guide through the most important stories of the morning , delivered Monday , Wednesday , and Friday . <p> Enter Email <p> The Salk vaccine was tested against a placebo in 1.8 million American first- and second-grade schoolchildren in a so-called double-blind placebo-controlled trial -- the gold standard in American medicine , in which half the study subjects get an inert vaccine , and doctors , parents and patients did not know who got which . <p> Salk himself objected to the use of a placebo during the clinical trial ; he could n't imagine depriving a child of a lifesaving vaccine . As the petition before the FDA notes , the current vaccine , manufactured by Sanofi , was not tested against a placebo ; scientists and doctors almost universally agree that withholding a lifesaving vaccine would be unethical . <p> The Sanofi vaccine , given as a shot , is made using a technique similar to the one Salk used . It is an " inactivated " polio vaccine , meaning it is made using strains of inactivated , or killed , polio virus . <p> A different polio vaccine , first developed by scientist Albert Sabin , a competitor to Salk , contained a live but weakened form of the polio virus . The Sabin vaccine , administered orally , replaced the Salk vaccine in 1962 and was in use for decades in the United States . But the oral vaccine caused eight to 10 cases of paralytic polio each year . In 1999 , federal regulators decided to replace it with the current vaccine , which is safer . <p> Advertisement <p> The polio virus is still circulating worldwide . In 2022 , an unvaccinated man in Rockland County , New York , was paralyzed by polio . Earlier this year , the virus paralyzed a child in the Gaza Strip , the first case in the region in 25 years , which prompted a mass vaccination campaign against polio . <p> " We still need to give the polio vaccine as long as these strains are in the environment , " said Dr. Paul Offit , a vaccine expert at Children 's Hospital of Philadelphia . If the vaccine is eliminated , Offit said , " these strains will do just what they did in Gaza and do just what they did to this man in Rockland County . " 
@@118843741 <h> My Word : A trip of remembrance and resilience <h> " You ca n't unsee the sights , " a reporter friend had warned me . <p> BEN SHIMONI 'S car , in which he carried out rescue missions until he was murdered on October 7 , stands at the Tekuma memorial site. ( photo credit : LIAT COLLINS ) <p> I made a trip to southern Israel last week -- " The Trip " -- a journey laden with emotional baggage . For the past 14 months , I had avoided visiting the area where the October 7 , 2023 , Hamas invasion and mega-atrocity took place . " You ca n't unsee the sights , " a reporter friend had warned me . <p> Enough time had elapsed before last week 's tour , organized by the Journalists Association of Jerusalem , for me to consider a closer look at what happened on the most terrible day in Israeli history . <p> In addition , last month , I reviewed for The Jerusalem Report the extraordinary book by photojournalist Ziv Koren , The October 7 War . I had a better understanding of the need to record and document the events -- the horrors and the heroism -- as the narrative is already being hijacked . <p> Tour guide Ronit Liron presented facts , the history of the area , the events of October 7 , and what had preceded them . This was not about politics and blame ; it was about trying to understand the scope of the terrorists ' savagery , hearing about some of the hidden heroes of the day , and learning about the strategic importance of the Western Negev -- to give " the Gaza border communities " its proper name . <p> That our first stop was just two hours ' travel time from Jerusalem was sobering . Hamas , Palestinian Islamic Jihad , and other terrorists had penetrated far into the country in what they called the Al-Aqsa Flood , ravaging communities on the way . Israelis visit the site of the Nova music festival massacre in southern Israel , during the the Jewish holiday of Simchat Torah , October 24 , 2024. ( credit : OREN BEN HAKOON/FLASH90 ) <p> The first point on our itinerary delivered a punch in the gut . At Tekuma , the remains of some 1,500 vehicles , most of them scorched , are piled up in a steel mountain range . Each one , a testimony to lives lost or destroyed.As we entered the solemn site , one of the first things we saw was the burnt-out shell of an ambulance where some 20 people had been murdered as they sought safety . <p> I felt as if I was walking on hallowed ground and had an urge to place a pebble at the central memorial and say Kaddish , the mourner 's prayer . Liron noted how ZAKA ( identification , extraction , and rescue ) teams had carefully checked the inside of every vehicle for blood and human remains before they were taken to the site . <p> Many of the cars belonged to revelers at the Supernova music festival ; others came from kibbutzim or towns , or were caught on the roads in the attack . The terrorists had deliberately aimed their guns and RPGs at the vehicles ' gas tanks and motors . <p> As we stood by the wrecked remains of the car of Ben Shimoni , his father , Rafi , came over to tell his son 's story . Ben , easy-going and vivacious , had been born 31 years ago in Dugit , a Jewish fishing village in Gaza abandoned during the 2005 Israeli withdrawal . Rafi can be found at Tekuma most days , working on commemorative projects and talking about Ben . <p> Ben was one of the citizens posthumously awarded by the president for his heroism on that dark day . Instead of saving himself , he returned again and again to rescue as many people as he could from the rave until ultimately the terrorists caught up with him . <p> Of the three people with him in the car on that final journey , one other was killed outright ; one was badly wounded and abducted to Gaza , now presumed dead ; while Romy Gonen , a beautiful young woman , remains in Hamas captivity . <h> Kibbutz Be'eri <p> THE NEXT stop was Kibbutz Be'eri , where we met resident and former Eshkol Regional Council head Avraham Dvori , known to all as Menscher . Menscher 's entire family , children and grandchildren , had been abroad celebrating an anniversary on October 7 , but their homes were destroyed by the 340 terrorist invaders or in the tank battles to regain control of the kibbutz . <p> Menscher explained that the outward appearance of the buildings does not necessarily reflect the fate of the residents . Some homes were destroyed but people managed to escape ; others seem intact but the people who lived there were tortured , murdered , or abducted . <p> We passed by rows of shelled remains of homes . Posters on the outside reflect who was killed and who was taken hostage . There are many names with which we have become familiar , such as Vivian Silver and Itay Svirsky , whose body was retrieved from Gaza the day before our visit . Menscher noted that the kibbutz is a traditional cooperative based on humane values ; many of those killed or abducted had been active in coexistence projects and aiding Palestinians . <p> The booms of IDF fire in Gaza could occasionally be heard . It is painful to be in a kibbutz where there are few birds chirping and no children 's voices to be heard . But in the neglected gardens , some citrus trees bear fruit . A well-fed cat sought our affection . <p> There are signs of life and rejuvenation . Menscher said he is confident that many of the residents will eventually return and rebuild the community . But the kibbutz can never recover while there are members still held hostage , he said . <p> He took us to a memorial hall established in the auditorium where , just the evening before October 7 , the kibbutz had celebrated its 77th anniversary . Be'eri lost 101 out of its 600 members in what Menscher referred to as Ha'irua -- " The Event . " <p> It 's hard to find the right word for the savagery of that day . What word describes an 85-year-old grandmother hacked to death in her home ? Or entire families bound and burned to death ? The hall has personalized memorials for the kibbutz members , telling their individual stories and featuring favorite items -- a surfboard , motorbike helmet , chess set , and -- chillingly -- children 's toys . The youngest victim was just one year old . <h> Nova Music Festival <p> FROM BE'ERI , we traveled to the site of the Supernova music festival at Re'im , where more than 360 were killed . The Supernova site has developed over the past year . Posts display photos of smiling young faces and stories of the victims . They are decorated with items like scarves of favorite football teams -- I notice rival teams on adjacent posts . <p> I stopped to read the story of a Bedouin policeman killed during rescue efforts . Everywhere there are the ceramic red anemones -- the flower that symbolized the region in peacetime and has come to symbolize the victims of October 7 , when , all together , some 1,200 were murdered and 250 abducted . <p> Our journey also took us to the spot outside the library in Sderot , where terrorists mowed down 15 pensioners from Ofakim on an outing to the Dead Sea after their bus had a flat tire . We also stopped at " Aner 's migunit , " where 27 people crammed into the tiny roadside shelter seeking safety during the rocket attacks after fleeing from the Supernova festival . Only seven survived . <p> It was here that 22-year-old unarmed soldier Aner Shapira courageously threw back at the terrorists seven grenades that had been tossed into the confined space . The eighth grenade exploded in his hands and killed him . His friend Hersh Goldberg-Polin , badly wounded , was dragged away by terrorists . He was executed by Hamas in a terror tunnel in September , along with five other hostages . <p> Several of the journalists with me knew Ayelet Arnin , a young editor at the KAN public broadcasting company , who was among the victims in the shelter . The walls are covered with commemorative stickers and slogans , while memorial candles have been lit on the floor . <p> The sense of fear seems to be trapped inside the cement walls . On a hilltop observation point in Sderot -- which serves as a memorial to four soldiers killed in a Hamas ambush during Operation Protective Edge in 2014 -- we looked out toward Gaza , where smoke can be seen rising from Jabalya . Did it give me joy ? No . But I 'd rather see smoke where the terror tunnels are being destroyed than charred homes in Israel in the future . <p> Sderot has erected an impressive 18-column memorial on the grounds of the former police station . The police station , overrun by terrorists , was completely destroyed on October 7 . At least 50 civilians and 20 police officers were killed in the town ; their names and stories are recorded at the site . A group of young girls sat nearby singing Hebrew songs . Remarkably , the city has not only returned to life but is growing -- more than 1,000 new residents have moved in over the last year . <p> When I set out , I had been wary of a voyeuristic tour , but I returned with fresh insights and the biblical commandment Zachor -- " Remember " -- echoing in my head . While memorials serve as silent witnesses , it is the duty of the living to speak out . 
@@118843745 <h> The IDF reiterated that , while the brigade remains deployed in southern Lebanon , removing threats to Israel and its citizens , it is acting in accordance with the ceasefire agreement . <p> The IDF has been continuing operational activities in both Gaza and southern Lebanon , dismantling missile and rocket launch sites in both areas , the army reported on Friday . <p> In Lebanon , soldiers in the 769th Brigade discovered a large weapons store , including concealed Kornet missile launchers , AK-47 rifles , magazines , missiles , and other military equipment hidden in dense and mountainous terrain , the IDF said . <p> Footage of the weapons discovered in the area of southern Lebanon ( IDF ) <p> The IDF also reportedly removed an anti-tank missile launch site used by Hezbollah to fire at communities in the Upper Galilee . <p> A separate operation led to the discovery of a weapons cache containing RPG missiles and mortar shells . <p> The IDF reiterated that while the brigade remains deployed in southern Lebanon , removing threats to Israel and its citizens , it is nevertheless acting in accordance with the ceasefire agreement . Discovery of underground launch sites in Beit Lahia , Gaza ( credit : IDF ) <h> Developments in Gaza <p> Meanwhile , in Gaza , IDF troops have been working to dismantle a rocket launch site in an underground location in Beit Lahia . <p> Soldiers uncovered three underground multi-barrel launchers loaded with rockets and other weapon . <p> In Rafah , IDF troops said they located tunnel shafts , eliminated terrorists and dismantled terrorist infrastructure sites . <p> During military operations , a terrorist cell approached the troops before being struck by the IAF . <h> Developments in Syria <p> Given the recent developments in Syria , soldiers have been sent to the buffer zone and the Golan Heights area . <p> Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz has ordered Israeli troops to prepare to remain on Mount Hermon , a strategic location overlooking Damascus , during winter , a statement from his office said on Friday . <p> " Due to what is happening in Syria - there is enormous security importance to our holding on to the peak of Mount Hermon , " the statement said . 
@@118843748 <p> In a one-on-one interview with Jerusalem Post editor-in-chief Zvika Klein , Professor Ehud Grossman , President of Ariel University , discussed the unique features the university offers both its students and the Samaria region . <p> Grossman , a renowned researcher previously served as Dean of the Faculty of Medicine at Tel Aviv University before assuming his duties as President of Ariel University . He noted that the university has experienced a 400% growth in research over the past ten years and praised the university 's " Zionistic approach . " One-third of the student body has been serving in the IDF since the beginning of the ' Swords of Iron War ' , and he said that the sight of students returning from reserve service with rifles slung across their backs is a common sight on campus . At the same time , the university values its diverse study body , including those who contribute to society in various ways , reflecting a community built on mutual respect and shared purpose . <p> One of the highlights of the university , he said , is its approach to medicine , which includes a multidisciplinary rehabilitation center , university clinics , the Faculty of Health Sciences and the Dr Miriam and Sheldon G. Adelson School of Medicine , established in August 2018 . This past September , the school conferred medical degrees on its first group of MDs , which numbered 53 graduates . Tragically , one of the graduates , Dr. Moshe Yedidyah Leiter , fell in battle in Gaza in November 2023 . The university is committed to honoring his memory , along with those of other students who have tragically lost their lives in the ongoing war . <p> Citing numbers and statistics , Grossman said that Ariel University today has 16,000 students , and more than 30,000 alumni , along with an academic and administrative staff of 3,000 . Ariel was established in 1982 , and was recognized as a university in 2012 . The university plays a vital role in the community , he explained , and is the largest employer in the Samaria region . <p> The vision of Ariel University , he said , is " shaping the present with the with the wisdom of the past and a vision for the future . We are an academic university with a Zionist mindset that contributes to the community . " <p> Ariel University sponsored a portion of the Jerusalem Post Miami Summit . 
@@118843750 <h> Murray is an associate editor of the magazine , according to their website , and his column accused Hijab of " whipping up a mob on the streets of London . " <p> British Muslim influencer Mohammed Hijab , known for his anti-Israel political activism , is suing Zionist political commentator Douglas Murray for defamation , a Thursday report from The Jewish Chronicle revealed . <p> The cause for Hijab 's lawsuit is a column piece penned by Murray over two years ago in the British magazine The Spectator , which is also being sued by Hijab . <p> Murray is an associate editor of the magazine , according to their website , and his column accused Hijab of " whipping up a mob on the streets of London " and making discriminatory remarks on Hindu people , quoting Hijab saying that they are " ridiculous people , not least because of their belief in reincarnation " and that they " must live in fear because they have been reincarnated as such pathetic , weak cowardly people . " Hijab 's lawyers argued that Murray 's comments were incorrect , saying that the influencer was referring to Hindutva , an " extremist Hindu supremacist ideology " and not Hinduism as a whole , the Chronicle reported . <p> Hijab 's statements were made during the Leicester unrest two years ago when there were heightened tensions between Muslims and Hindus in the United Kingdom , including protests and riots . <h> Murray 's comments caused distress , humiliation , lawyers claim <p> Of Murray 's entire column , only two paragraphs mention Hijab directly , yet he says that the allegations that piece makes against him have " damaged his reputation " and caused him " to suffer distress , humiliation , embarrassment , hurt and injury to his feelings , " the Chronicle report notes , while also citing his lawyers alleging the Muslim influencer lost income as a result of the allegations . Muslim public speaker Mohammed Hijab in 2022. ( credit : Wikimedia Commons ) <p> Murray 's lawyers , in response , argue that Hijab 's reputation is scrutinized already as a political figure who engages in public debates , the report added . <p> His lawyers also highlighted Hijab standing with a billboard in 2021 containing images of the Holocaust interspersed with photographs from the Israel-Gaza conflict of that year and asked specifically Jewish passers-by their opinions on Israel during Shabbat. 
@@118843756 <p> The Hague district court stressed that the state has some leeway in its policies and courts should not rush to step in . <p> " The interim relief court finds that there is no reason to impose a total ban on the export of military and dual-use goods on the state , " it said in a statement . <p> The plaintiffs , citing high civilian casualties in Israel 's war in the Gaza Strip , had argued that the Dutch state , as a signatory to the 1948 Genocide Convention , has a duty to take all reasonable measures at its disposal to prevent genocide . <p> The NGOs cited a January order to Israel by the International Court of Justice to prevent acts of genocide in Gaza . F-35 's arrive in Israel after being purchased from Lockheed Martin , November 13 , 2022 ( credit : LOCKHEED MARTIN ) <h> Genocide accusations <p> Israel says accusations of genocide in its Gaza campaign are baseless and that it is solely hunting down Hamas and other armed groups who threaten its existence and hide among civilians , something the groups deny . <p> The judges at the Hague district court sided with the Dutch state , which had said it continually assesses the risk of arms and dual-use goods exported to Israel being used in a way that could lead to violations of international law , and that it occasionally refuses certain exports . <p> In a ruling in a separate case in February , a Dutch court ordered the government to block all exports of F-35 fighter jet parts to Israel over concerns they were being used to violate international law during the war in Gaza . The government has appealed that ruling . 
@@118843758 <p> Daily Mail Australia confirmed that Molan had presented her last show , would not be returning to Sky News , and would not be able to say farewell to viewers . Erin Molan attends the annual Mercedes-Benz Sydney Women in Business Luncheon on June 19 , 2024 in Sydney , Australia . ( credit : Don Arnold/WireImage ) <p> Nevertheless , in her video message , Molan said she is " harder to kill off than you think " and that her mission has just begun . <p> She said she would continue " fighting for children " and for " every single hostage still held captive in Gaza , " adding that she was not only " fighting against a world who lets their captors off the hook " but also one that " praises the hostages ' captors , worships them , idolizes them , rewards them . " <p> Molan said she supports the " only democracy in the Middle East fighting bloodthirsty killers on multiple fronts on behalf of the entire world , " adding that Israel was " desperately trying to get their people back , including babies , while desperately trying to protect their citizens from the same fate . " <p> That people keep " falling for the demonization of Israel hook , line , and sinker beggars belief , " she continued . <p> She insinuated that the ending of her term at Sky News comes due to her " caring too much " about the suffering of the " innocent children in Gaza at the hands of terrorists who attack , kill , kidnap Jews " and her efforts " exposing the support for unfathomable evil among young people in the West , who are so deluded about where their empathy belongs it is terrifying . " <p> The first one , she said , has been going on for " far too long " but " comes to an end soon , at least in the US . " Molan thanked President Trump for his effective policy of " peace through strength . " <p> Useful idiots , she added , are a side effect of weak leadership . <p> In terms of the silent majority , their " quiet existence allows the loud minority to take up way too much space . " <p> " I 'm here to be the loudest member of the silent majority that I can be , " she continued . <p> Molan admitted that she had received offers from other networks , which would be the " easy option , " but alluded to the fact that these offers would be conditional on her quietening her outspoken support for Israel . <p> " I 'm not from Israel , I 'm not Jewish , I 'm not American , I have no skin in this game . But you see , I do . When hate is allowed to fester , we all lose ; when stupidity is n't called out , it becomes very dangerous , and if I sit idly by , I am just as much to blame as the fool waving the flag at the Hamas protest . " <p> " The standard you walk past is the standard you accept , and I wo n't ever accept the standard the world is dishing out right now , and neither should you . " <h> Colleagues , supporters respond to news <p> Several people responded to Molan 's statement with messages of support . Investor Bill Ackman tweeted , " ErinMolan is one the world 's great TV journalists . I am looking forward to what comes next in her career . " <p> Sky News Australia journalist Sharri Markson , who is Jewish , said she was " really sorry to see her courageous and gorgeous friend leave us at Sky News . " <p> However , Markson disputed the idea that Molan 's departure from Sky News was because of her Zionism , calling the idea " categorically untrue . " <p> " No media outlet globally has shown more leadership or clarity on Israel 's fight against terrorism and our own battle against antisemitism than us at Sky News Australia and News Corp , " Markson said . 
@@118869746 <p> An " equity and justice " conference involving many of the country 's most prestigious private schools devolved into a " festival of Jew hate " that had scared students leaving in tears , according to outraged parents and attendees . <p> Speakers at last week 's National Association of Independent Schools ' annual People of Color Conference accused Israel of " ethnic cleansing " and " genocide " and downplayed the Oct. 7 Hamas attacks that killed 1,200 Israeli civilians -- prompting some frightened kids to hide their Jewish stars as they left early . <p> " There was an overwhelming feeling that we were not welcome , " one Jewish senior from the Milken Community School in Los Angeles told The Post . <p> One of the conference speakers was Dr. Suzanne Barakat , a physician and activist on issues of Islamophobia and social justice . Our Three Winners <p> " We felt small and insignificant , " said the student , who asked for anonymity out of fear of retribution . <p> The NAIS -- an organization of 1,300 independent schools that includes Manhattan 's Tony Dalton , Brearley , Collegiate , Trinity , Fieldston , and the Riverdale Country School -- held the professional development and networking event Dec. 4-7 in Colorado along with its Student Diversity Leadership Conference . Approximately 8,000 students and adults attended . <p> Among the New York prep schools in attendance were the Brooklyn Friends School , Dalton and Horace Mann . A complete list of attendees was not immediately available . <p> Milken Community Schools head of school Sarah Shulkind denounced the apparent Jew hate and ignorance on display at the conference . milkenschool <p> On the second day , Dr. Suzanne Barakat , a physician and activist , claimed Israel was " founded on ethnocentric superiority and an inherently systemically racist framework , " according to transcripts obtained by The Post . <p> The Mideast conflict , she said , stemmed from a " strain " of Zionism created when Jews fled nationalism in Europe in the 1800s . Critics said she made support of the Jewish state sound like a disease . <p> " They began immigrating to Palestine as colonists , " Barakat said , calling it " ethnic cleansing . " <h> See Also <p> " To suggest that Israel is committing genocide , that this current conflict is the most documented genocide in modern history -- which smacks of Holocaust denial -- was like being punched in the gut , " said Sirida Graham Terk , a teacher and diversity and inclusion coordinator at Milken who attended . <p> " There was no mention of the indigeneity of the Jewish people , " she added . " The only mention of Hamas was that they led an ' unprecedented assault . ' " <p> In an email to school leaders the day after the speech , NAIS president Debra Wilson said Barakat 's remarks about the war were " unprompted and unexpected . " <p> " While some attendees shared the speaker 's perspective and felt both seen and heard , others were deeply hurt and outraged , " Wilson added . <p> Critics said the apology was also insulting . <p> " Nobody could even bring themselves to say the word ' antisemitism ' in the acknowledgement , " said Sarah Shulkind , Milken 's head of school . <p> " Most horrifying is that the thousands of educators that were in that room teach at the nation 's most elite schools . . . they stood and cheered , " Shulkind added . " It reveals to me two things : virulent , unapologetic Jew hate , and profound ignorance . " <p> Jewish students said they were forced to get up and leave during Ruha Benjamin 's presentation . <p> On the last day of the conference , Princeton Professor Ruha Benjamin donned Palestinian colors and earrings showcasing watermelons , a symbol of Palestinian solidarity , as she addressed students and educators . <p> Benjamin spoke of her virtual reality project " The Phoenix of Gaza " during the last day of the conference . <p> " As I began walking out , I noticed people looking at my star of David necklace , " he continued . " I no longer felt safe at a conference literally built for inclusion . I got out of the conference room as soon as I could and quickly noticed that almost all other Jewish students did as well . " <p> Jewish leaders sent a letter to the NAIS Wednesday demanding an apology and ensure speaker selection procedures that prevent " toxic rhetoric . " <p> In response to them , Wilson said all future presentations would be required to be submitted in full in advance and took the groups on their offer to serve as a resource , especially ahead of a conference in February . <p> " I write to express my profound remorse over the divisive and hurtful rhetoric expressed on stage at last week 's NAIS People of Color Conference in Denver , " Wilson wrote . " There is no place for antisemitism at NAIS events , in our member schools , or in society . " <p> Another Jewish private school mom said she has spent years trying to get people to pay attention to the NAIS . <p> " Finally , after this speech , parents are waking up and they are livid , " she said . <p> Concerns of Jewish families have long been dismissed , one former NAIS member school employee told The Post . <p> " Jewish mothers in particular were categorized as ' crazy ' which meant overly involved and protective , " the former employee said . <p> " Jewish students were not seen or treated as a minority group ... They were seen as white and rich and privileged and not deserving of protection against the antisemitic conduct of other students . " <p> Barakat and Benjamin did not immediately respond to inquiries from The Post . 
@@118871141 <h> Gaza 's libraries will rise from the ashes <p> A photo of Maghazi Library in the Maghazi refugee camp in the Gaza Strip Courtesy of Shahd Alnaami <p> I was five years old when I entered the Maghazi Library for the first time . My parents had just enrolled me at the nearby kindergarten , specifically because it was sending its pupils to the library for regular visits . They believed in the transformative power of books and wanted me to have access to a large collection as early as possible . <p> The Maghazi Library was n't just a building ; it was a portal to a world without boundaries . I remember feeling an overwhelming sense of awe as I crossed its wooden doorway . It was as if I had stepped into a different realm , where every corner whispered secrets and promised adventures . <p> Though modest in size , the library felt infinite to my young eyes . The walls were lined with dark wooden shelves , filled with books of all shapes and sizes . At the centre of the room was a cozy yellow-and-green couch , surrounded by a simple rug where we , the children , would gather . <p> I still vividly remember our teacher asking us to sit around her on the rug and opening up a picture book . I was enthralled with its illustrations and letters , even though I could not yet read . <p> Advertisement <p> The visits to the Maghazi Library would instill in me a love for books that profoundly influenced my life . Books became more than a source of entertainment or learning ; they nourished my soul and mind , shaping my identity and personality . <p> This love turned into pain as libraries across the Gaza Strip were destroyed , one after the other , over the past 400 days . According to the United Nations , 13 public libraries have been damaged or destroyed in Gaza . No institution has been able to estimate the destruction of the other libraries -- those that are either part of cultural centres or educational institutions or are private entities -- that have also been obliterated . <p> A photo of Gaza City 's Municipal Public Library after it was bombarded in November 2023 Anadolu <p> Among them is the library of Al-Aqsa University -- one of the largest in the Gaza Strip . Seeing the images of books burning in the library was heartbreaking . It felt like fire burning my own heart . The library of my own university , the Islamic University of Gaza , where I had spent countless hours reading and studying , is also no more . <p> The Edward Said Library -- the first English-language library in Gaza , created in the aftermath of the 2014 Israeli war on Gaza , which also destroyed libraries -- is also gone . That library was established by private individuals , who donated their own books and worked against all odds to import new ones , as Israel would often block formal deliveries of books into the Strip . Their efforts reflect Palestinian love for books and drive to share knowledge and educate communities . <p> Advertisement <p> The attacks on Gaza 's libraries are targeting not just the buildings themselves , but the very essence of what Gaza represents . They are part of the effort to erase our history and prevent future generations from becoming educated and aware of their own identity and rights . The decimation of Gaza 's libraries is also aimed at destroying the strong spirit of learning among Palestinians . <p> The love for education and knowledge runs deep within the Palestinian culture . Reading and learning are cherished across generations , not just as means to acquire wisdom but as symbols of resilience and connection to history . <p> Books have always been seen as objects of high value . While the cost and Israel 's restrictions often limited access to books , the respect for them was universal , cutting across socioeconomic boundaries . Even families with limited resources prioritised education and storytelling , passing down a profound appreciation for literature to their children . <p> More than 400 days of severe deprivation , starvation , and suffering have managed to kill some of this respect for books . <p> It pains me to say that books are now used by many Palestinians as fuel for fires to cook or stay warm , given that wood and gas have become prohibitively expensive . This is our heartbreaking reality : survival comes at the cost of cultural and intellectual heritage . <p> But not all hope is lost . There are still efforts to preserve and safeguard what little remains of Gaza 's cultural heritage . <p> The Maghazi Library -- the book heaven of my childhood -- still stands . The building remains intact and with local efforts , its books have been preserved . <p> A photo of the author with colleagues during a recent visit to the Maghazi library in Maghazi refugee camp , Gaza Courtesy of Shahd Alnaami <p> I recently had the opportunity to visit it . It was an emotionally overwhelming experience , as I had not visited for many years . When I entered the library , I felt like I was returning to my childhood . I imagined " little Shahd " running between the shelves , filled with curiosity and a desire to discover everything . <p> Advertisement <p> I could almost hear the echoes of the laughter of my kindergarten classmates and feel the warmth of the moments we spent there together . The memory of the library is not only in its walls , but in everyone who vsited it , in every hand that flipped through a book , and every eye that immersed itself in the words of a story . The Maghazi Library , to me , is not just a library ; it is part of my identity , of that little girl who learned that imagination can be a refuge and that reading can be resistance . <p> The occupation is targeting our minds and our bodies , but it does not realise that ideas can not die . The value of books and libraries , the knowledge they carry , and the identities they help shape are indestructible . No matter how much they try to erase our history , they can not silence the ideas , the culture , and the truth that live within us . <p> Amid the devastation , I have hope that , when the genocide ends , the libraries of Gaza will rise from the ashes . These sanctuaries of knowledge and culture can be rebuilt and stand again as beacons of resilience . <p> The views expressed in this article are the author 's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera 's editorial stance . 
@@118871151 <h> Could Israel 's Netanyahu be about to agree to a Gaza ceasefire ? <p> Rumours that Israeli prime minister may finally put his name to an agreement with Hamas abound , but why now ? <p> Demonstrators gather as Benjamin Netanyahu arrives at the District Court in &lt;span&gt;Tel Aviv&lt;/span&gt; to take the stand in his corruption trial on December 10 , 2024 Mostafa Alkharouf/Anadolu via Getty Images <p> Indications that Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu could be ready to agree to end the assault on Gaza that has killed 44,800 people -- with thousands more lost under the rubble and presumed dead -- could raise hopes of an end to the war . <p> Since then , the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) has issued arrest warrants for both men for war crimes and crimes against humanity committed in Gaza since the war began in October 2023 . <p> On Wednesday , the UN General Assembly ( UNGA ) passed a resolution calling for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza and expressing support for the work of UNRWA ( UN 's agency for Palestinian refugees ) , which Israel banned from operating in Israel and the Palestinian territory . <p> Advertisement <h> What would a ceasefire mean for people in Gaza ? <p> Everything , particularly for those in the north . <p> Rumours that a ceasefire agreement may be close are near-constant among those trapped in the enclave , desperate for an end to the bombardment . <p> " In the last week , there have been two , maybe three occasions where the community around us erupted in cheers and whistling and applause because of rumours that there has been an agreed ceasefire , " Louise Waterbridge , senior emergency officer at the UN Relief and Works Agency ( UNRWA ) , told Al Jazeera . <p> The north of Gaza remains under total Israeli siege , with 65,000 to 75,000 Palestinians trapped behind the siege lines , the UN estimates , as the Israeli military has prevented aid from reaching them . Israeli forces have essentially cut off the northern part of Gaza from the south . <p> Aid organisations have long warned of famine in Gaza , and many believe that it has already taken hold in north Gaza . <p> Just before the UNGA vote this week , Israel dismissed UN objections to its invasion of Syrian territory , saying its actions are necessary to " secure " its borders from the buffer zone that has been there , policed by the UN , since 1974 . <p> Speaking at a news conference on Tuesday , Netanyahu hailed the collapse of what he described as regional nemesis Iran 's " axis of evil " following the fall of Syria 's president , Bashar al-Assad , saying : " The absolute victory they mocked is at hand . " <h> What is Hamas 's position ? <p> In the most recent negotiations in Egypt , Hamas has reportedly agreed that Israeli troops can remain within Gaza . It had previously said complete withdrawal is a non-negotiable part of any ceasefire deal . <p> According to reports in the Wall Street Journal , Hamas has now accepted that Israeli troops can stay in Gaza " temporarily " . <p> They would remain in their existing fortified positions along the Philadelphi Corridor -- controlling access between Egypt and Gaza -- and the Netzarim Corridor , which splits north Gaza from south , during a 60-day " pause " in the fighting . <p> Advertisement <p> The newspaper also reported that under the prospective deal , Hamas would release 30 vulnerable captives from Israel named on a list it has provided to Egyptian authorities . <p> In return , Israel would free Palestinian prisoners and allow for an increased flow of humanitarian aid into Gaza . Humanitarian agencies have repeatedly said Israel is blocking aid from entering Gaza , something Israel denies . <p> ( Al Jazeera ) <h> Has Netanyahu prolonged the war on Gaza for his own ends ? <p> Almost everyone thinks so . <p> The families of the Israeli captives being held in Gaza , Netanyahu 's domestic and international allies , and many of his political opponents , have all accused Netanyahu of prolonging the war in Gaza to avoid accountability . <p> Like the corruption charges that Netanyahu is facing in court in Tel Aviv , as well as any investigation into his alleged failings during the Hamas-led assault on southern Israel on October 7 , 2023 , during which 1,139 people died and about 250 were taken captive . 
@@118871450 <h> 1 . After Donald Trump won the election last month , the co-hosts of The View discussed the financial issues many Americans face . Whoopi Goldberg , apparently in an effort to relate to the audience , said , " I appreciate that people are having a hard time . Me , too . I work for a living ! If I had all the money in the world , I would not be here , okay ? So , I 'm a working person , you know ? " <p> ABC <p> She continued , " My kid has to feed her family . My great-granddaughter has to be fed by her family . I know it 's hard out there . " <h> Considering her net worth is estimated at around $60 million , the backlash was swift and severe . Social media users said she was " out of touch with reality " and had no idea what it 's like to live paycheck-to-paycheck . <p> As the story goes , Marie Antoinette was told French peasants had no bread to eat . She responded , " Let them eat cake " -- demonstrating her out-of-touch attitude toward her starving subjects . Many historians have stated there 's no evidence that the French queen actually said this , but it remains a chilling folktale about severe wealth inequality . <h> While her video went viral , pictures of one of fashion 's biggest nights flooded social media at the same time as images of Israel 's attack on the Palestinian city of Rafah in the southern Gaza Strip . Many made comparisons to TheHunger Games , where wealthy Capitol residents dressed in opulent clothing while children were murdered in the games . This sparked the 2024 Blockout , a digitine ( digital guillotine ) where people unfollowed and blocked celebrities who did n't speak out about Palestine to prevent their ads from reaching them . <h> Haley posted a nearly nine-minute apology video where she clarified that she did n't receive an actual invitation to the Met ; she was a host interviewing celebs as they departed a hotel . " I 'm not elite . I 'm a normal person , " she insisted . Haley also offered an explanation for why she had n't spoken about Palestine : " I am not informed enough to talk about it in a meaningful and educational way . " <p> Her apology garnered immediate backlash , with many sharing clips of the home tour that Haley -- a model who 's previously been featured in Sports Illustrated -- gave two years ago , showing off her $17,000/month NYC apartment . <h> 3 . The day after Trump was announced as the winner of the election , Kim Kardashian posted a holiday advertisement for her Skims products on Instagram . The video featured Goldie Hawn , Kate Hudson , and their family in matching pajamas . <p> Pierre Suu / Getty Images <h> People in the comments quickly pointed out the poor timing . " Read the room , Kim , " one user wrote . Another said , " Love you Kim , but this is not the time . " Others pointed out that families are struggling to buy groceries -- meanwhile , the unisex sleep set costs $120 . <p> Arnold Jerocki / Getty Images <h> 4 . In September , Zachary Levi announced his support for Trump , calling it " career suicide " in " very , very liberal " Hollywood , and the internet promptly roasted him . Soon after , an insider told the Hollywood Reporter that Zachary was apparently " bitter " that his role in Shazam ! did not make him Chris Evans or The Rock . <p> Warner Bros. / Courtesy Everett Collection <h> The internet had a good laugh at that , with one person writing , " Lmao social awareness severely lacking . " Another person said , " Divorced dad energy , " and someone asked , " Who lied to him ? " <p> Ernesto Ruscio / WireImage <h> 5 . During the August press tour for It Ends with Us -- a movie about ending the cycle of domestic abuse -- Blake Lively promoted the film with a focus on floral clothing , going so far as saying , " Grab your friends , wear your florals , and head out to see it . " The actor also wore florals to a crossover event with the drinks company she founded called Betty Buzz , and she launched a new haircare line during this time . <p> Gareth Cattermole / Gareth Cattermole / Getty Images <p> In a Jake 's Takesinterview , Blake was asked the best way that people who see the movie and connect with it can speak with the actor . She jokingly replied , " Like , asking for my address , or my phone number , or , like , location share ? I could just location share you . " She went on to give a more serious response about women who see red flags and mistake them as " fuchsia " and " cute . " <h> Meanwhile , director Justin Baldoni 's main focus during the press tour was raising awareness of domestic abuse . On Instagram , he linked resources like No More , a nonprofit organization dedicated to ending domestic abuse . He spoke about the message of the film often , telling Today , " I was always thinking about the outcome and the why , and the one woman I was making this for who would sit in that theater and maybe not go back to her abusive relationship . " <p> John Nacion / Variety via Getty Images <h> The stark difference between Blake and Justin 's promotion of the film sparked a lot of online chatter , with many calling the former " tone-deaf . " One social media user wrote , " As a DV survivor , I am absolutely disgusted by the cutesy way this film is being promoted . Like it 's a rom-com , grab your girls and your florals ? " Another said they were " appalled " at Blake 's initial response to Jake 's question and " how she turned a deep , personal , serious question into a joke . " <h> Social media users were quick to note that the Kardashian-Jenner family sells their old clothes on Kardashian Kloset rather than donating them . People also called Khlo ? out for the " live beneath your means " line when she lives " in a mansion " and " be living the high life . " One user wrote , " The lack of self awareness is so embarrassing good god . " <p> Kevin Mazur / Getty Images for Fanatics <h> 7 . In September , Netflix released Ellen DeGeneres 's so-called last standup special . The comedian spoke about being " kicked out of show business " because she was " mean , " referencing the BuzzFeed News reporting on her talk show 's alleged toxic and racist environment . She also talked about going to therapy and how she should n't have been the boss in the way that Ronald McDonald should n't be the CEO of McDonald 's . <p> Netflix <h> Social media users were less than impressed . " It was pity party for her during the whole special , " one person wrote . Some called it " self-indulgent , " and one user said , " All she had to do was humbly acknowledge her words and actions hurt more than she realized , and promised to learn and grow . That 's it . " <p> Netflix <h> 8 . In September , Pharrell Williams shared some controversial remarks during an interview with the Hollywood Reporter . " I do n't really do politics , " he said while comparing himself to a federal employee . " Come rain or shine , whether it 's a Democrat or a Republican in office , you show up to work every day , you serve your country . " <p> Pascal Le Segretain / Getty Images <p> He called himself a humanitarian and shared nonprofits that focus on education and Black and brown entrepreneurs . " I like people trying to help people . Not sure I 'll ever vote far right , " he said with a laugh . " I wo n't do that . " <h> The singer received a wave of backlash from social media users . One user asked , " Are you able to not do politics because you 're so wealthy that everything is accessible to you no matter who is in office ? " Another wrote , " Not ' doing politics ' is so incredibly privileged and out of touch . " <p> Nbc / Nathan Congleton / NBC via Getty Images <h> 9 . After Trump won the election , Caitlyn Jenner shared a picture on Instagram with the president-elect and Elon Musk . " Hope is back in America , " she wrote in the caption . " These two men will single-handedly save western civilization and that starts with a strong United States of America . I am here and at your service and forever indebted to your sacrifice for this country . Let 's Make America Great Again ! " <h> Social media users slammed Caitlyn for being out of touch with LGBTQ+ issues , considering Trump 's anti-trans agenda and Elon 's anti-trans rhetoric and nonexistent relationship with his trans daughter . " Is it irony that a trans woman fully endorsed a man who 's trying to take rights away from not only women but also transpersons , including herself ? Sure feels like it , " one person wrote . Others called it " disappointing " and " hugely hypocritical . " <p> Mike Marsland / Mike Marsland / Getty Images for Sky <h> 10 . And finally , Katy Perry released the album 143 this year . The music video for the song " Woman 's World " features the singer in traditionally masculine stereotypes , such as wearing a tool belt and riding in a monster truck , while dressed for the male gaze . She collaborated with Dr. Luke to create this attempt at a feminist anthem . <p> After she released the music video , Katy shared a video where she said it was " sarcastic " and " on the nose . " She continued , " With this set , we 're , like , not about the male gaze , but we really are about the male gaze . " <h> Considering the collaboration with Dr. Luke -- who Kesha spent a decade fighting in court after she accused him of drugging and raping her -- on a women 's empowerment song , Katy received fierce backlash . People were also unimpressed with the music video itself . Many commenters told Katy to " read the room , " with one person writing , " This feels like it 's mocking women instead of empowering them . " Another person said , " This feels like she watched the Barbie movie and wanted to make her version but decided to have men write and produce it . " 
@@118873051 <h> Top Stories <h> How President Biden is trying to Trump-proof his legacy <p> Joey Garrison , USA TODAY <p> Sat , December 14 , 2024 at 10:05 AM UTC <p> 11 min read <p> WASHINGTON ? President Joe Biden dared his Republican successor this week to eliminate his signature law bringing clean-energy manufacturing projects across the country , including GOP-leaning states and congressional districts . <p> " Will the next president stop a new electric battery factory in Liberty , North Carolina , that will create thousands of jobs ? " the lame-duck American leader said in a speech Tuesday at the Brookings Institution , a center-left think tank . " Will he shut down a new solar factory being built in Cartersville , Georgia ? Are they going to do that ? " <p> As he prepares to leave office , Biden is looking to cement a legacy of economic recovery from the COVID pandemic . And he is challenging the very people who have opposed his agenda ? Republican lawmakers ? to help preserve the 2022 Inflation Reduction Act , a centerpiece of Biden 's economic agenda . The outgoing president is trying the guard the law that unleashed billions in financial incentives aimed at spurring the construction of factories that produce clean-energy products . <p> Yet behind the scenes , the Biden administration is also working to pull what levers it has left to effectively " Trump-proof " Biden 's other major accomplishments ? and skirt around the Republican takeover to come . It follows a tradition in Washington in which an outgoing administration typically makes last-minute policy moves before the opposing party comes in . <p> President Joe Biden speaks about his " middle-out , bottom-up economic playbook " at the Brookings Institution in Washington , DC , on December 10 , 2024 . <p> Biden has directed his administration to spend as much funding as possible from the four massive spending packages he pushed through Congress : the American Rescue Plan , the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law , the CHIPS and Science Act and the Inflation Reduction Act . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> The president plans to highlight another component of the Inflation Reduction Act next month when a new $2,000 cap on certain Medicare beneficiaries goes into effect . And federal agencies are finalizing a host of new rules ? ranging from capping overdraft fees charged by banks and stopping businesses from hiding so-called " junk fees " from consumers ? before Biden leaves office . <p> Biden 's chief of staff Jeff Zients , in a Monday memo to White House staff , called the final six weeks a " sprint to the finish line " to " get as much done as possible for the American people . " <p> The White House 's efforts , which also include getting federal judges confirmed while Democrats still control the Senate , come as Biden has already started to lose influence globally , with Trump widely being treated as the de facto president by world leaders . <p> Biden did not attend the reopening of the Notre Dame cathedral last weekend in Paris . Instead Trump sat two seats from first lady Jill Biden at the ceremony and later met with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy and French President Emmanuel Macron , whom Trump greeted earlier with a hearty handshake on the steps of the Elysee Presidential Palace . <p> Trump has already announced his visions for trade policy during his next presidency and hosted meetings at Mar-a-Lago with world leaders like Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orb ? n . <p> White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre said Biden had a " scheduling conflict " preventing his attendance in France and downplayed Trump 's engagements with world leaders . " It 's not unusual when there is a president-elect , for heads of states , foreign leaders to want to have that conversation with the president-elect , " she said . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Despite Biden 's lame-duck status , Zients rejected any notion of inaction in his White House memo : " During a time when most would expect us to slow down , you are accelerating : Getting Investing in America awards out the door , celebrating historic milestones and delivering on the President 's promise to the American people , " he wrote . <p> France 's President Emmanuel Macron ( L ) shakes hands with US president-elect Donald Trump ( R ) as he welcomes him ahead of a meeting at the Elysee Presidential Palace in Paris on December 7 , 2024 . <h> Racing to get money out the door <p> The White House said the administration has already awarded 98% of funding available from Biden 's core economic laws ? which authorized a historic $1 trillion infusion for infrastructure projects , $53 billion in subsidies for microchip companies , and about $400 billion for clean-energy projects , including incentives to support the manufacturing of products like electric cars , solar panels and batteries . <p> About 93% of funds have been awarded when excluding one of those laws , the American Rescue Plan , which was passed in March 2021 shortly after Biden took office and included programs aimed at recovery during the COVID pandemic . <p> For example , the Department of Commerce awarded $16 billion in incentives and tax credits last month alone to boost projects to support the creation of microchips , which the White House credits with spurring $180 billion in private investments in the semiconductor industry . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Since the November election , the Biden administration says clean-energy , semiconductor and other advanced manufacturing investments from the private sector have topped $1 trillion as a result of the Biden-backed laws . <p> A White House official told USA TODAY that a future administration can not rescind or withdraw grants awarded to private companies from the CHIPS Act or other laws ? even if the funding has n't gone out ? unless the recipient is found in breach of contract . <p> Biden has emphasized that Republican-leaning communities are the beneficiaries of many of the green-energy projects and jobs . In his Brookings speech , Biden said " keep your eye " on the Republican members of Congress who opposed his signature pieces of legislation on infrastructure , microchips and climate , only to celebrate the projects popping up in their states or districts . <p> " Show me the most conservative Republicans willing to take away the factories that are going to be built in their states , " Biden said . " Going to be interesting . Going to be interesting . " <p> President Joe Biden speaks about his " middle-out , bottom-up economic playbook " at the Brookings Institution in Washington , DC , on December 10 , 2024 . <p> Sen. Richard Blumenthal , D-Conn. , said he hopes Biden " gets out the door all of the funding we 've provided for environmental , infrastructure and other causes where it can make a huge difference in the quality of life and healthcare , education , medical research ? to use the money before Trump tries to impound it . " <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> But Blumenthal 's Senate colleague from Connecticut acknowledged that Democrats might be handcuffed from doing much else . " I mean , I 'm not sure there 's much he can do to preserve the legislative agenda if Republicans want to eliminate , " Sen. Christopher Murphy , D-Conn. , said . <p> Republicans by contrast have objected to Biden 's 11th-hour spending push . <p> Sen. Bill Hagerty , R-Tenn. , accused the Biden administration of " a lame-duck attempt to constrain the newly elected Trump Admin . " Hagerty , the Trump-appointed U.S. ambassador to Japan during the first term , was responding to comments Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo made to Politico on her desire to have nearly all chips funding out the door before Biden leaves office . <p> " It 's not only anti-democratic ( and ) bad government , " Hagerty said in a social media post last month . He argued it could also violate the Antideficiency Act , a law which prevents federal agencies from spending more funding than appropriated by Congress . <h> A rush to fill judge vacancies ? and a Biden veto <p> Biden 's push to Trump-proof his legacy extends to the federal courts , too . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Zients said the White House is " urging the Senate to confirm as many nominees as possible in the time we have left . " The Democratic-controlled Senate has raced to confirm 16 federal judges since mid-November , bringing the total number of Biden-appointed judges with lifetime appointments to 229 over his four years in office ? five short of Trump 's four-your total during his fist term . <p> White House Chief of Staff Jeff Zients speaks during a White House staff transition event in the East Room in Washington , DC on February 1 , 2023 . <p> Meanwhile , the Biden administration said it would veto bipartisan legislation , which cleared the House Thursday , that would create 66 new federal judicial seats over the next three presidential administrations ? a proposal supporters say is needed to addressed a large backload in cases in certain states . If it becomes law , Trump would be handed additional judicial vacancies to fill in his next term . <p> Sen. Chris Coons , D-Del. one of Biden 's closest Senate allies , co-sponsored the bill , which cleared the Senate earlier in the summer , long before the conclusion of the 2024 presidential election . Coons called Biden 's looming veto a " regrettable outcome , " telling reporters that Biden relayed that his only objection was timing , according to Politico . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> " If we could change the date by four years , I know ? he told me ? if we could change the date , he 'd sign it tomorrow , " Coons said . <h> Last-minute rulemaking draws Republican opposition <p> Biden 's team is not just trying to protect its signature laws and confirming federal judges . <p> The administration 's last-minute federal rules and regulations have been in the works for months to promote components of Biden 's agenda ? such as combatting climate change , reducing fees for consumers and lowering drug prices . <p> In addition , the Federal Trade Commission , led by chair Lina Khan , is preparing to ban business from hiding so-called " junk fees " from the listed costs to consumer , the Post reported , citing two anonymous sources . An initial rule applied only to car dealers , hotels , ticket sellers and other large industries . <p> Igniting pushback from Republicans , the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is moving forward on several rules including capping overdraft fees charged by banks to as low as $3 ? a measure opposed by the banking industry . <p> " Despite voters ' clear message on Election Day , Director Chopra has advanced his agenda at a breakneck speed , " Scott said , accusing Chopra of pushing " partisan messaging on ' junk fees ' and seeking a boogeyman around every corner for the failed economic policies of the Biden administration . " <p> Chopra , in response to Scott , told the committee : " I do n't think it makes sense for the CFPB to be a dead fish . People between Election Day and Inauguration Day are still getting scammed . They 're still being subjected to questionable account closures . They still being the victims of so much wrongdoing . " <h> Biden to hand Trump roadmap for emerging foreign alliances <p> On the foreign policy front , Biden has called for continued support for Ukraine in its war against Russia and the stressed importance for the U.S. to maintain ties with its strongest allies including membership with NATO , which Trump has regularly criticized . <p> Biden is also still looking for a long-awaited cease-fire deal between Israel and Hamas that will halt fighting in Gaza and lead to the release of Israeli hostages in Hamas captivity . Jake Sullivan , Biden 's national security adviser , traveled to Israel this week in a final effort to secure a cease-fire before Trump enters . <p> President Joe Biden and Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy participate in the launching of the Ukraine Compact at the 2024 NATO Summit on July 11 , 2024 in Washington , DC . <p> At a time when many hardline Republicans close to Trump are embracing isolationism from international conflicts , Biden is challenging his successor to maintain U.S. leadership . <p> " If we 're not leading the world , who does ? " Biden said in this week 's speech in what seemed like a question posed to Trump . " Not a joke . I 'm not being a wise guy . If we do not lead the world , what nation leads the world ? Who pulls Europe together ? Who tries to pull the Middle East together ? " <p> The Biden administration issued a classified national security memo Wednesday that offers a roadmap for the incoming Trump administration to combat strengthening ties among Russia , Iran , North Korea and China . Citing cooperation among the countries , the document orders the arms within various national security agencies currently organized by region to realign by linking the four nations together . <p> While the Biden administration can try to " Trump-proof " some areas , this is n't one of them . It will be up to Trump and his team on whether to implement the policy suggestions . 
@@118902248 <h> Past links to ISIS and Al Qaeda raise fears for some about Syria 's new regime <p> " Those who took over the government , their thoughts are terrorists ' thoughts , " one person fleeing to Lebanon told NBC News . <p> Syrian rebel fighters stand guard as Muslim worshippers attend the first weekly Friday prayers in the old city of Damascus since the ouster of President Bashar al-Assad.Bakr Alkasem / AFP via Getty Images <p> Dec. 15 , 2024 , 9:50 AM UTC <p> By Matt Bradley and Charlene Gubash <p> DAMASCUS , Syria -- It had been less than two days since the fall of President Bashar al-Assad 's regime when two Islamist fighters knocked on the door of the Rev. Rafaat Abul Nasser 's Lady of Damascus Church , armed with assault rifles , pious beards and probing questions . <p> " I 'm telling you , I was not afraid , " Nasser told NBC News on Wednesday . " Because St. Paul says to be strong in the Lord . " <p> The soldiers strolled through the ornate sanctuary , snapped photos of the icons and asked about the meaning of the cross and the crucifix . Then they left . And that , Nasser said , was mercifully that . <p> But the chilling visit is emblematic of the uneasy optimism that pervades this new Syria , where many are wondering whether the new regime will practice the inclusiveness and liberalism it preaches . <p> The Rev. Rafaat Abul Nasser.Matt Bradley / NBC News <p> Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , which led the charge on Damascus , was once closely linked with both Al Qaeda and the Islamic State , as were its leaders , and the U.S. and much of Europe still classify it as a terrorist organization . <p> But the group disavowed its allegiances with the more extreme jihadist groups years before it actually conquered Damascus , taking the capital with little resistance and ending almost 14 years of civil war . <p> " Precisely because we are Islamic , we will guarantee the rights of all people and all sects in Syria , " Mohammad al-Bashir , the newly installed transitional prime minister , told the Italian newspaper Corriere della Sera in an interview . <p> The group 's leader , Ahmad al-Sharaa , appears to have changed his clothes as well as his mind , sporting a trimmer beard , simple military uniforms and even sometimes business suits . <p> He has also retired his nom de guerre , " Abu Mohammad al-Jolani , " and guaranteed rights for women , minority groups and supporters of the old regime . <p> But anxiety around the new leadership remains , and while some rights groups have acknowledged HTS ' positive language , they have also highlighted the group 's poor human rights record in regions it has governed in recent years , particularly in Idlib province in Syria 's northwest . <p> In a report last year on human rights practices in Syria , the U.S. State Department said HTS had " reportedly permitted confessions obtained through torture and executed or forcibly disappeared perceived opponents and their families . " <p> HTS held detainees " incommunicado in secret detention facilities referred to as ' security prisons , ' " it added , citing another study by the United Nations Commission of Inquiry for Syria . <p> Its rise is particularly vexing for Syria 's religious minorities , who were often pitted against one another during the ironfisted rule of Assad and the years of civil war . <p> While about three-quarters of Syrians are HTS ' Sunni Muslim co-religionists , the rest of the population is a kaleidoscope of Shiite Muslims and the Alawite minority sect , of which Assad was a member , which theologians consider an offshoot of that branch of Islam . <p> Christians and the Druze , a small Middle Eastern sect that derives its beliefs from Islam while placing heavy emphasis on philosophy and spiritual purity , are much of the rest of the population . <p> Last week , the road from Damascus to Lebanon was clogged with thousands of Syrians fleeing in the opposite direction , apparently uninterested in waiting to test the new regime 's purported tolerance . <p> " Those who took over the government , their thoughts are terrorists ' " thoughts , said Ammar Shahbander , 32 , a Shiite philosophy professor from Aleppo who was waiting to cross the border with his wife and two small children . " Maybe there will be a civil war . I have children . So of course I fear for them . " <p> Shahbander said he was n't uniquely afraid of HTS and its leader . After nearly 14 years of nightmarish civil war fought by ordinary citizens , he said , his main concern is about the Syrian civilian population that is now addled by sectarianism , vengeance and easily accessible weapons . <p> " HTS maybe can control all these elements , " he said . " Today there is individual behavior . Maybe they will kill me or kill anyone . Can Jolani control this behavior ? " <p> Jolani and his appointed prime minister , al-Bashir , have also said that welcoming Syrian refugees from abroad is among their top priorities . But despite their positive liberal signaling , some Syrians abroad are reluctant to return to a Syria that is not only destroyed but also dominated by fundamentalists . <p> Abdulwahed Danou , an Arabic instructor from Aleppo , said over text message last week that his asylum application in the Netherlands was put on hold after Assad was ousted . Several European governments have already announced plans to send Syrian refugees back . <p> " I am totally lost . My head is spinning , " he wrote . " I would not like to be ruled by jihadists or extremists . " <p> Even when HTS ' rank and file make all the right noises , their appearance and behavior betray a profound conservatism . At a traffic circle near Nasser 's church , a cluster of camouflage-clad fighters lounged on manicured grass . <p> They spoke freely about their fight for freedom as well-wishers crossed the busy intersection to congratulate them and offer them snacks . One of the young militiamen insisted that Syria 's minorities had nothing to fear under the new regime . <p> " I will stay in my path , the path of jihad , " Khatab Shawi , 21 , one of the soldiers , said when he was asked what he planned to do after the revolution . " Or I will go to our brothers in Gaza , and we will be martyrs for the sake of God . Hopefully after this war we will go to Gaza . " <p> Matt Bradley <p> Matt Bradley is a London-based foreign correspondent for NBC News and MSNBC . <p> Charlene Gubash <p> Charlene Gubash is an NBC News producer based in Cairo . Gubash , a native Minnesotan , has lived and worked in the Egyptian capital since 1985. 
@@118903144 <p> Since the start of the war in the Palestinian territory on October 7 last year , Al Jazeera has aired continuous on-the-ground reporting on the effects of Israel 's campaign . <p> The global channel , since before the war , has been the focus of long-running feud with the Israeli government which has repeatedly accused journalists from Al Jazeera of links to Hamas or its ally Islamic Jihad . <p> Al Jazeera has fiercely denied these accusations and said Israel systematically targets its employees in the Gaza Strip . <p> Al-Louh is the fifth Al Jazeera journalist to be killed since the war in Gaza began , and the network 's office in the territory has been bombed . <p> In September , Israeli forces raided Al Jazeera 's office in the West Bank , with Israel 's military saying the Ramallah bureau had been " used to incite terror " and " support terrorist activities " . <p> Al Jazeera called the Israeli raid " a criminal act " and an attack on press freedom . <p> In April , the Israeli parliament passed a law allowing the banning of foreign media broadcasts deemed harmful to state security . <p> Based on this law , Israel 's government on May 5 approved the decision to ban Al Jazeera from broadcasting from Israel and close its offices . <p> The New York-based Committee to Protect Journalists earlier on Sunday said the Israel-Hamas war " has taken an unprecedented toll on Gazan journalists " . <p> The watchdog said CPJ 's preliminary investigations showed at least 137 journalists and media workers have been killed in Gaza , the West Bank , Israel and Lebanon since October 7 , 2023. 
@@118938442 <h> Israel plans to double its population in the occupied Golan Heights amid intensive airstrikes in Syria <p> A colossal explosion rocked the Syrian port city of Tartus overnight , following a presumed Israeli airstrike , fueling fresh scrutiny over Israel 's actions in Syria following the Assad regime 's ouster . <p> Footage of the blast emerged as Israel announced plans to double its population in the occupied Golan Heights , citing threats from Syria . The move earned international condemnation and came after Syrian rebel leader Abu Mohammad al-Jolani said he has no interest in engaging in new conflicts . <p> The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights , a London-based war monitoring group , described the imagery emerging from Tartus as representing " the most violent Israeli strikes on military sites in the eastern Tartus area . " <p> In the video which spread across social media Monday , the massive explosion can be seen erupting across the Syrian skyline . <p> NBC News has been able to geolocate the footage as being filmed from Tartus port area pointing at the mountains northeast of the city , with NASA satellites detecting aftermath fires in an area just more than 9 miles from the harbor . <p> A massive explosion from a reported Israeli strike on a munitions depot in the Syrian port city of Tartus on Sunday . via X <p> The Israel Defense Forces did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the footage . But an Israeli official who reviewed the video said the fireball was likely the result of a secondary explosion , citing the possibility of munitions igniting following an Israeli strike . The official spoke on the condition of anonymity as the person was not authorized to discuss Israel 's aerial campaign in Syria . <p> It comes days after satellite images appeared to show Russian forces packing up and dismantling military equipment at Russia 's Tartus naval base and Hmeimim air base , both located south of Latakia on Syria 's Mediterranean coast . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Israel 's actions in Syria , which came as it continues to intensively bomb the Palestinian enclave of the Gaza Strip , were aimed at ensuring the country 's safety . <p> " Strengthening the Golan means strengthening the State of Israel , and this is especially important at this time , " he said in a statement Sunday after his government unanimously approved his plan to expand the Israeli population in the area . <p> An Israeli military vehicle patrols the Syria-Israel border in the Majdal Shams area of the Golan Heights on Sunday.Saeed Qaq / Anadolu via Getty Images <p> Israel occupied the Golan Heights during the 1967 Mideast War and later annexed the roughly 460-square-mile area in 1981 in a unilateral decision that was not recognized by the international community . <p> In 2019 , then-President Donald Trump broke with the international community and years of U.S. precedent in moving to recognize Israel 's sovereignty over the territory -- a policy shift that was not reversed by the Biden administration . <p> The decision to expand the Israeli population in the Golan Heights comes after Netanyahu 's office said Thursday that the collapse of Bashar al-Assad 's regime in Syria had " created a vacuum on Israel 's border and in the buffer zone established by the 1974 Separation of Forces Agreement , " which stipulated Israel 's withdrawal from areas of Mount Hermon it occupied during the 1973 Arab-Israeli War . <p> An Israeli soldier rolls up a portrait of ousted Syrian President Bashar al-Assad near the village of Majdal Shams in the Israeli-annexed Golan Heights on Saturday.Jalaa Marey / AFP via Getty Images <p> " Israel will not permit jihadi groups to fill that vacuum and threaten Israeli communities on the Golan Heights with October 7th style attacks , " it said . <p> The warning was followed by the announcement that Israeli forces would remain on Mount Hermon -- a key strategic peak inside a buffer zone that has existed with Syria for decades -- through the winter after occupying the site . <p> Jolani said Saturday that Israel was using false pretexts to justify attacks on the country , according to the Reuters news agency . But , he said , his Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) group had no interest in engaging in new conflicts as the nation looks to rebuild following the end to the Assad reign . <p> With its roots in extremist Islamist movements , HTS remains a globally designated terrorist group and in 2018 , the United States placed a $10 million bounty on Jolani 's head . <p> The Syrian town of Quneitra , seen from the Golan Heights in Majdal Shams , on Dec. 11 . Kobi Wolf / Bloomberg via Getty Images <p> The former Al Qaeda fighter has projected a more moderate image and promised a Syria inclusive of the religions and ethnic groups represented in the country . The Biden administration has said it is considering removing HTS from its list of terrorist organizations . <p> By Monday , the plan to expand the Israeli population in the Golan Heights , as well as Israel 's airstrikes on Syria over the weekend , began to draw international backlash , with the Turkish Foreign Affairs Ministry condemning what it described as " a new stage in Israel 's goal of expanding its borders through occupation . " <p> " Israel 's ongoing actions seriously undermine the efforts to bring peace and stability to Syria and further increase tensions in the region , " it said in a statement Monday . <p> It comes after United Nations chief Ant ? nio Guterres last week called on Israel to halt its aerial attacks and advance into Syrian territory following Assad 's ouster , as he branded " recent and extensive violations " of Syria 's sovereignty " deeply concerning . " 
@@118938443 <p> A bearded man in a red-and-white-striped top stands up , eyes wide and arms flung out , and howls . <p> Scattered around him lie the devastated bodies of people buried in piles of rubble . Ash falls as rescuers search for survivors trapped in the wreckage carrying small children , some limp , some struggling , some dead . <p> The man in the red-and-white top puts his left arm around an adolescent girl , her hair and blue pajamas coated in dust . Behind them fire burns bright . Seconds later he embraces a young woman in a printed headscarf as she wails and thrashes about in distress . <p> An NBC News crew in the Gaza Strip caught these and other images in the immediate aftermath of an overnight airstrike on the United Nations-run Ahmed bin Abdul Aziz school-turned-shelter , which killed 13 people , according to The Associated Press , citing Nasser Hospital , where the bodies were taken . <p> A man cries out after an Israeli strike Sunday on a school serving as a shelter in Khan Younis.NBC News <p> The crew also captured the moment Shadi Tafesh arrived to find 10 members of his family lying together , lifeless and in pieces . His father 's head was severed from his body . His sister , her husband and their two children were dismembered . <p> On Monday morning , just hours after the attack , dozens gathered to mourn , standing by friends and relatives now wrapped in body bags . <p> The Israel Defense Forces said it had " conducted a precise strike on Hamas terrorists who were operating inside a command and control center embedded within a compound " that it said had served as the UNRWA Ahmed bin Abdul Aziz school . <p> It did not provide evidence of the claim that militants were operating in the building . <p> " Prior to the strike , numerous steps were taken to mitigate the risk of harming civilians , including the use of precise munitions , precise aerial surveillance , and additional intelligence , " the IDF added . <p> In a statement released Monday morning , Hamas called the attack a " heinous massacre " and accused Israel of the " systematic targeting of schools and centers for the displaced . " <p> The strike was the fourth in a series of Israeli attacks over the weekend on Gaza schools serving as shelters for displaced Palestinians , which helped push the death toll in Gaza beyond 45,000 , most of them women and children , according to Palestinian health officials . Over 106,000 people have been injured , and many remain buried under the rubble , officials said . <p> On Saturday morning , two people were killed in a raid on a Yaffa school , northeast of Gaza City , according to the Palestinian news agency WAFA . <p> Hours later , Israeli airstrikes killed seven people during an attack on the Al-Majida Wasila school sheltering displaced Palestinians in Gaza City , local health officials said . <p> Women and children were among the dead , including a baby girl named Janan Al-Ghura , who was born on Friday and killed on Saturday alongside her mother , Suzan . <p> At least 13 Palestinians , including children , were killed and several others were injured in the Israeli strike.Abed Rahim Khatib / Anadolu via Getty Images <p> An NBC News crew captured the moment a member of the civil defense emerged carrying the body of a small child , covered in dust , mud and blood , through the building . <p> Nargis Al-Ghura said she had lost her daughter , son and granddaughter in the attack . <p> " To whom do I complain , oh Lord , of my pain and sorrow ? " she cried . Nargis said she had already lost her husband to the war . <p> The IDF said that Hamas was operating " command and control " centers inside the Yaffa and Al-Majida Wasila schools and that " numerous steps were taken to mitigate the risk of harming civilians . " <p> On Sunday , Israeli strikes on Khalil Awida , another school-turned-shelter in Beit Hanoun in northern Gaza that houses more than 1,500 displaced people , killed more than 40 , according to health officials , with fires charring a number of bodies . <p> Hamas accused Israel of a massacre " against the displaced people " at the shelter and of carrying out " ethnic cleansing and forced displacement operations " in the northern Gaza Strip . <p> The IDF did not respond to a request for comment on the strike on Khalil Awida . <p> The Israeli military has been operating in Gaza for 15 months , a response to the Oct. 7 , 2023 , terrorist attack in which roughly 1,200 people were killed in Israel and around 250 people were taken hostage . 
@@118939447 <h> Latest headlines : <h> State Department : Search for Tice still possible without team on the ground <p> The State Department 's lack of boots on the ground in Syria is n't interfering in its efforts to track down missing American journalist Austin Tice , spokesperson Matthew Miller contended on Monday . <p> The department has had " more than one communication " with rebel group HTS " over the past week , " he told reporters . It was also in touch with other groups , like the White Helmets , that were helping with the search , he said . <p> " We feel that right now we are able to get good information , " he said . <p> Tice , an American freelance journalist and Marine Corps veteran , was kidnapped while reporting in Syria more than a decade ago . <p> In a recent letter to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu obtained by ABC News , Tice 's family " urgently " asked the Israelis to pause their strikes in a neighborhood in Damascus where they believe he may be held prisoner and to deploy assets to the area to help search for him . <p> " I 'm going to be looking for help anywhere I can , and what I 've learned in 12 years and four months is go to the top first , " Tice 's mother , Debra Tice , told reporters on Monday when asked about the outreach . <p> " I think it would be polite to say the least , that perhaps they 're not bombing as people are trying to clear the prison . That would be my first suggestion , " she added . <p> ABC News has reached out to the prime minister 's office for comment . <p> -ABC News ' Shannon K. Kingston and Will Gretsky <p> 11:44 AM EST <h> Israeli defense minister expresses optimism for ceasefire deal <p> Israeli officials are expressing optimism about the prospects of a ceasefire deal in Gaza . <p> " We are closer to a deal than in any other point since the previous deal , the matter is top priority , " Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz said while addressing the Knesset on Monday , according to the spokesperson of the foreign affairs and security committee . <p> The remarks come after Mossad chief David Barnea traveled to Doha , Qatar , last week for ceasefire negotiations . <p> 8:59 AM EST <h> Assad says he fled Syria after drones attacked Russian air base <p> Former Syrian President Bashar Assad on Monday released his first statement since the collapse of his regime , posting a statement to the presidency 's official Telegram channel . <p> " My departure from Syria was neither planned nor did it occur in the final hours of the battles , " Assad said . " As terrorist forces infiltrated Damascus , I moved to Latakia in coordination with our Russian allies to oversee combat operations . " <p> A damaged portrait of Syria 's ousted president Bashar Assad lies on the ground in the western Syrian port city of Latakia on Dec. 15 , 2024 . <p> Ozan Kose/AFP via Getty Images <p> " Upon arrival at the Khmeimim air base that morning , it became clear that our forces had completely withdrawn from all battle lines and that the last army positions had fallen , " the statement continued . <p> " As the field situation in the area continued to deteriorate , the Russian military base itself came under intensified attack by drone strikes . " <p> " With no viable means of leaving the base , Moscow requested that the base 's command arrange an immediate evacuation to Russia , " Assad wrote . <p> " This took place a day after the fall of Damascus , following the collapse of the final military positions and the resulting paralysis of all state institutions , " he added . <p> -ABC News ' Somayeh Malekian , Ghazi Balkiz and Joe Simonetti <p> 6:09 AM EST <h> Gaza death toll passes 45,000 , officials say <p> A series of Israeli airstrikes across Gaza over the weekend and into Monday morning pushed the total death toll in the strip since Oct. 7 , 2023 , to more than 45,000 people , according to data from the Health Ministry in the Hamas-run territory . <p> A Palestinian woman mourns a relative who was killed in an Israeli airstrike , at Al-Ahli Arab hospital in Gaza City on Dec. 15 , 2024 . <p> Omar Al-qattaa/AFP via Getty Images <p> Per ministry figures , more than 2% of Gaza 's total pre-war residents of 2.23 million people have been killed in 14 months of conflict with Israel . 
@@118965052 <p> The comments section is closed . To submit a letter to the editor for publication , write to letters@nytimes.com . <p> This is an intercontinental ballisticmissile the U.S. Air Force is launchingoff the shores of California . <p> This is an **25;2261;TOOLONG missile the U.S.Air Force is launching off theshores of California . <p> The missile does n't carry a nuclearwarhead -- it 's just a test . <p> The missile doesn'tcarry a nuclear warhead -- it 's just a test . <p> In 30 minutes , it will hit a target in theocean over 4,000 miles away . <p> In 30 minutes , it will hita target in the ocean over4,000 miles away . <p> On Jan. 20 , Donald Trump will regaincontrol of these weapons . <p> On Jan. 20 , Donald Trump will regain control of these weapons . <p> And he 's getting them at a veryvolatile time in history . <p> And he 's getting them at a very volatile time in history . <p> OpinionThe Editorial Board <h> ThePresident'sArsenal <p> By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board is a group of opinion journalists whose views are informed by expertise , research , debate and certain longstanding values . It is separate from the newsroom . <p> In the United States , only the president can decide whether to use nuclear weapons . It 's an extraordinary instance in which Mr. Trump 's decision-making power will be absolute . He will not need to consult Congress , the courts or senior advisers on when or how to use them . He will have a free hand to craft our nation 's nuclear posture , policy and diplomacy . <p> On the campaign trail , Mr. Trump commented on the peril posed by the rest of the world 's growing nuclear arsenals . His return to the White House offers new opportunities for him to steer America clear of those threats . His administration will need to act urgently and with creativity , all while also demonstrating the understanding that nuclear weapons are too dangerous to be brandished as a cudgel . <p> This article is part of the Opinion series At the Brink , about the threat of nuclear weapons in an unstable world . Read the opening story here . <p> This article is part ofthe Opinion series At the Brink , about the threat of nuclearweapons in an unstable world.Read the opening story here . <p> The leaders of China , Russia and the United States are in the midst of a new great-power competition , a global struggle for military , economic and geopolitical dominance . But not all aspects of this contest are zero-sum , especially in nuclear weapons matters . There are ample opportunities for all sides to improve their own national security conditions by staving off a costly arms race and dangerous confrontation . <p> Most Americans have never seen -- or perhaps even contemplated -- what it takes to be ready for nuclear conflict . Times Opinion gained rare , up-close access this summer to film what this looks like in the United States . Observing the missile launch procedures provided a glimpse at the inner workings of a warfighting machine that should never be set in motion . <p> Approximately three times each year , the U.S.Air Force performs this intricate test . <p> Approximately three times eachyear , the U.S. Air Force performsthis intricate test . <p> Service members pull a missile from anunderground silo in the Great Plains . <p> Service members pull amissile from an undergroundsilo in the Great Plains . <p> The missile is stripped of its nuclear payload andshipped to Vandenberg Space Force Base . <p> The missile is stripped of itsnuclear payload and shipped toVandenberg Space Force Base . <p> Other nuclear nations conduct tests like theseon a routine basis . <p> Other nuclear nations conducttests like these on a routine basis . <p> The global nuclear balance is more tenuous in 2024 than it has been in decades . <p> " Tomorrow , we could have a war that will be so devastating that you could never recover from it , " Mr. Trump said in June . " Nobody can . The whole world wo n't be able to recover from it . " <p> The last remaining major bilateral accord limiting the United States ' and Russia 's arsenals , New START , expires in just 14 months . And Russian leaders have rejected the Biden administration 's offers to discuss a new nuclear arms control framework , which follows the dismantling of other accords meant to lessen the risk of conflict . We are on the precipice of living in a world that has no restraints on how many nuclear weapons are deployed . <p> President Vladimir Putin of Russia continues to raise the specter ofescalating his war on Ukraine to nuclear use . India and Pakistan have an estimated 170 nuclear weapons each but are expanding their arsenals . U.S. intelligence believes China plans to double by 2030 the size of its stockpile of an estimated 500 warheads , as it continues the most ambitious expansion and diversification of its weaponry in its history . North Korea has developed missiles designed to strike America . The war in Gaza threatens to expand into a wider regional conflict ; Israel already has nuclear weapons and Iran is moving closer to building a bomb , risking a proliferation cascade throughout the Middle East . <p> The nuclear risk is n't found only among America 's adversaries . Allies without nuclear aims are now seriously discussing whether they also need nuclear capability . The recently impeached South Korean president , Yoon Suk-yeol , hasraised the possibility of building a bomb , andpolls have shown that 70 percent of Koreans think the country should . If South Korea proceeds , experts assume Japan will as well . Germany is debating whether it should develop its own nuclear program , and Poland hassought a more active role in NATO 's nuclear sharing . Ukraine 's leader , President Volodymyr Zelensky , has made his nation 's need for a nuclear weapon clear if the country is n't granted NATO membership . <p> If Mr. Trump is serious about truly making America great again , this is one critical issue where he can make his mark . The United States spent the second half of the 20th century and into the next with a single stated goal when it came to nuclear weapons : to make the world safer from them . After its devastating bombings ofHiroshima and Nagasaki , this aim was not a given -- in the first several decades of the Cold War , the United States and the Soviet Union amassed nuclear arsenals large enough to destroy the human race many times over . By the early 1960s , the Americans and Soviets appeared to be on a collision course toward nuclear war , armed with the most dangerous technology man has ever produced . <p> The Cuban Missile Crisis put both countries on a new path . In 1963 , the superpowers agreed to the first treaty on nuclear testing . By 1968 , many nations of the world had agreed in the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty to a grand bargain : In exchange for nonnuclear states forgoing such weapons , the nuclear states would work to get rid of theirs . Facing ever more public pressure , American leaders and diplomats would spend the next five decades leading the effort to set limits on the number of nuclear warheads deployed , as well as establish transparency and clear lines of communication . Shrinking the nuclear arsenal became a bipartisan , generational effort . <p> Today , nearly all of that work has unraveled . <p> It ca n't be ignored that in his first term , Mr. Trump played a significant role in fostering at least some of the risk the world now faces . Yet , given the changed landscape , the United States will have no choice but to lead -- something that , based on his campaign rhetoric , Mr. Trump appears to embrace . <p> In the past , Mr. Trump has said that he first appreciated the true danger of nuclear weapons after talking to an unlikely source : his uncle , an M.I.T. professor . In 1986 , when he was still principally a New York real estate developer , Mr. Trump reached out to the International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War , which had just received a Nobel Peace Prize for its disarmament work . He hoped to arrange negotiations with the Soviets to lower the nuclear threat . <p> Now it will be the job of President Trump to pull the world back from the brink . It 's time to discuss what he and the United States should prioritize . <p> I. <h> America Should <p> RENEW ARMSCONTROL TALKS <p> Visiting Hiroshima in 2016 , President Barack Obama was optimistic enough to call on nations that possessed nuclear weapons to " have the courage to escape the logic of fear and pursue a world without them . " <p> Abolition is something the United States has not seriously considered -- and can not now afford to consider . With China 's unprecedented nuclear buildup underway , the world faces , for the first time , the reality of not just two but three nuclear superpowers . The bipolar strategic balance of the Cold War no longer holds . American diplomats have no choice but to figure out how to restart sustained arms control negotiations and lay the groundwork forfuture generations to complete the job of nuclear disarmament . <p> America 's tests provide the military with freshdata on how its personnel and aging weaponssystems perform in a real-world scenario . <p> Air Force officers work every day on 24-hourshifts in underground bunkers , awaitingthe signal to launch if the president ever givesthe order . <p> Air Force officers work everyday on 24-hour shifts inunderground bunkers , awaitingthe signal to launch if thepresident ever gives the order . <p> The tests also send an unmistakable messageto America 's adversaries that the nuclear arsenalis ready if that command ever comes . <p> The tests also send anunmistakable message toAmerica 's adversariesthat the nuclear arsenal isready if that commandever comes . <p> Mr. Trump 's first administration refused to sign on to the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons , in keeping with other nuclear nations ' stance on the ban . It also unilaterally withdrew the United States from the Iran nuclear deal , the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty and the Open Skies Treaty . But Mr. Trump did demonstrate an ambitious willingness to sit down with Kim Jong-un of North Korea , even though those talks ultimately went nowhere . <p> He has a chance now to atone for past mistakes . Masoud Pezeshkian , the new president of Iran , has signaled a willingness to restart serious nuclear negotiations with the West . <p> Mr. Trump 's campaign trumpeted his withdrawal from the previous deal , but in September , the candidate told reporters that he may be open to new talks . Asreported in Politico , when asked about it , Mr. Trump said : " We have to make a deal , because the consequences are impossible . We have to make a deal . " <p> Mr. Trump , to his credit , grasps the dangers here . Perhaps he can also use some of his influence with President Putin to come to terms on the issue . Here again , some of his campaign rhetoric offers a glimpse of hope . Referring to Mr. Putin , Mr. Trump said in 2023 , " He goes , ' You know , we 're a great nuclear power . ' He says that publicly now . " Mr. Trump added , falsely : " He never said that when I was here . Because you do n't talk about it . It 's too destructive . You do n't talk about it . Now they 're talking about it all the time . " <p> To entice China to the table , Mr. Trump could express an openness to declare that the United States would not be the first to use nuclear weapons . The president-elect has shown a willingness to engage , inviting China 's leader , Xi Jinping , to his January inauguration . <p> China has spent the past yearsignaling the importance of this issue as a necessary requirement for it to move forward in meaningful nuclear talks . <p> A willingness to engage on a blanket no-first-use policy may ease tensions and provide a foothold for more ambitious discussions . <p> II . <h> America Should <p> ENSURE NUCLEAR TESTING <p> BANS STAY PUT <p> While the military still regularly tests the intercontinental ballistic missiles that would deliver a nuclear strike , it has n't conducted an explosive underground test of the warheads themselves in more than three decades . <p> A moratorium on testing nuclear weapons has also held in China and Russia . There are growing fears this could soon change , as all three nations update and expand the infrastructure and sites needed to test nuclear weapons , according to commercial satellite imagery by Planet Labs PBC . The photos , analyzed by the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Middlebury Institute of International Studies , show each nation is adding buildings , cutting roads and boring tunnels -- construction that many fear could presage live explosions . <p> A nuclear weapon does n't need to be used in war to have lasting impact . More than 2,000 such weapons were tested during the 20th century , spreading fallout that still affectshuman beings , public health and the environment . That , in part , is why the United States , along with every other country with nuclear weapons , except North Korea , has voluntarily observed a testing moratorium since the 1990s . The next Trump administration should work to make sure it remains in effect . <p> The conservative manifesto Project 2025 , published by the Heritage Foundation , specifically calls for preparing the nuclear testing site in Nevada for a new generation of tests , which -- unlike the tests at Vandenberg -- involve detonating actual nuclear explosives . Last summer , in the journal Foreign Affairs , Mr. Trump 's former national security adviser Robert O'Brienwrote that " the United States has to maintain technical and numerical superiority to the combined Chinese and Russian nuclear stockpiles . To do so , Washington must test new nuclear weapons for reliability and safety in the real world for the first time since 1992 -- not just by using computer models . " Given this logic , Russia and China would be justified in thinking the same . <p> Mr. Trump 's campaign distanced itself from both Project 2025 and Mr. O'Brien 's comments , and Mr. O'Brien has not yet been tapped to join the next administration . <p> While there is no nuclear warhead in thismissile , the military still must clear the surrounding airspace and stretch of oceanfor safety . <p> While there is no nuclearwarhead in this missile , themilitary still must clear thesurrounding airspace andstretch of ocean for safety . <p> If a part fails or the missile veers off courseduring flight , the military will destroy it byremotely detonating onboard explosives . <p> If a part fails or the missileveers off course during flight , the military will destroyit by remotely detonatingonboard explosives . <p> Data from the missile streams into the AirForce 's encrypted computer system inside thelaunch monitoring center . <p> Data from the missile streamsinto the Air Force 's encryptedcomputer system insidethe launch monitoring center . <p> If Mr. Trump decides the United States should resume nuclear explosive testing , China and Russia will almost surely follow suit . Mr. Putin has already threatened as much . Emerging nuclear powers , such as Iran , would also presumably feel no restraint on carrying out their own tests . <p> On top of all this , it makes no strategic sense . Starting to test again now would erode the huge scientific advantage the United States enjoys today . The U.S. government has conducted more than 1,000 known nuclear detonations -- more than China and the Soviet Union combined . Data from those tests , combined with our unparalleled computing power , has allowed America to maintain and improve its arsenal in a way that its rivals ca n't . <p> III . <h> America Should <p> REVIEW U.S. SPENDING <p> The United States , Russia and China are now feverishly overhauling their nuclear arsenals in sweeping multibillion-dollar efforts that the federal government benignly calls " modernizing . " The Pentagon plans to update the nuclear arsenal over the next 30 years , including the missiles , bomber jets , submarines and warheads , at nearly $2 trillion . <p> Mr. Trump could roll back some of that effort . Why must the U.S. military replace all of its weapons in one go ? Hundreds of millions of dollars could be saved simply by buying fewer of them . Even if Mr. Trump does n't want to cancel anything , he could at least give himself the political space to rethink such investments by appointing a commission to examine the full range and progress of the modernization plans , which are already over-budget and behind schedule . <p> The cost of this one test launch : $18 million . Ittakes about 200 service members to carry it out . <p> The cost of this one testlaunch : $18 million . It takesabout 200 service membersto carry it out . <p> Project 2025 , however , rejects congressional efforts to find more cost-effective alternatives to the current plans , calling instead for a nuclear escalation that could rival President Ronald Reagan 's at the height of the Cold War . <p> While Mr. Trump may have distanced himself from Project 2025 on the campaign trail , Christopher Miller , a former U.S. Army Special Forces colonel who served as his acting defense secretary , was the lead author of its 42-page chapter on defense . Some other alarming proposals include that the second Trump White House prioritize nuclear weapons ; develop nuclear-armed , sea-launched cruise missiles , which were withdrawn in the early 1990s ; and continue a Biden-era effort to develop a sweeping , untested " cruise missile defense of the homeland " -- all of which would require a significant budget increase to bankroll . <p> Mr. Trump has often condemned the hawkish attitudes of other conservatives . This is the time for him to show that he believes nuclear escalation is a bad idea . It 's taken some political courage for Mr. Trump to stake out an independent path from Republican orthodoxy on war-and-peace issues , and this is a chance to put his own views into action . <p> IV . <h> America Should <p> END SOLE AUTHORITY <p> President Trump will command about3,700 weapons that healone is empowered to launch . Any decision responding to an incoming nuclear attack on the United States would have to be made within as little as 15 minutes . <p> It is concern over any precipitous action that led Senator Edward Markey of Massachusetts and Representative Ted Lieu of California , both Democrats , last year to propose legislation to prohibit any president from launching a first-strike nuclear weapon without congressional approval . <p> Although it is unlikely to be taken up by this Republican-led Congress , the bill would not undercut Mr. Trump 's ability to respond to a nuclear attack , an authority all presidents have had and should have . <p> Agreeing that a pre-emptive nuclear strike should also be endorsed by Congress would be a signal to the world that the United States is serious about limiting nuclear brinkmanship -- that disputes among nations should not turn on impulsive nuclear threats of the type that Mr. Putin regularly issues . Mr. Trump would n't be weakening himself . He 'd be showing the world that he rejects hollow threats . <p> Fire and exhaust light up thefoggy coastline as theMinuteman III missile traces anarc across the Pacific . <p> Roughly a half-hour later , a dummy warheadfalls away , re-entering the Earth 's atmosphere ata blistering four miles per second . <p> Roughly a half-hour later , a dummy warhead falls away , re-entering the Earth'satmosphere at a blisteringfour miles per second . <p> It strikes the target area -- a lagoon in the middleof the Marshall Islands ' Kwajalein Atoll -- like alightning bolt . <p> It strikes the target area -- alagoon in the middle of the Marshall Islands ' KwajaleinAtoll -- like a lightning bolt . <p> Data from this exercise in June will help U.S.commanders fine-tune future tests scheduledunder the next Trump administration . <p> Data from this exercise in Junewill help U.S. commanders fine-tune future tests scheduled underthe next Trump administration . <p> One paradox of the nuclear age is that it has often been the most bellicose leaders who become the most committed -- and who are the most effective -- at securing arms control deals and shrinking global stockpiles . Dwight Eisenhower , who led the allied war effort against the Nazis , came to warn against the military-industrial complex . Nikita Khrushchev and John F. Kennedy were swaggering brinksmen until they brought the world close to annihilation . Ronald Reagan and Mikhail Gorbachev each came to see that nuclear weapons were vastly more dangerous in an unstable world . <p> Donald Trump ran a campaign of peace through strength . Time will tell if he can deliver what he promised . But all Americans should rejoice if Mr. Trump leaves the world a safer place from nuclear weapons than it was when he took office for the second time . <p> The editorial board is a group of opinion journalists whose views are informed by expertise , research , debate and certain longstanding values . It is separate from the newsroom . 
@@118965944 <h> Donald Trump made his first news conference since his election victory six weeks ago and covered the Ukraine war , mysterious drones flying over New Jersey and the future of TikTok . <p> In his first news conference since his election victory six weeks ago , President-elect Donald Trump covered the Ukraine war , mysterious drones flying over New Jersey , the future of TikTok and lawsuits aimed at the media he often loves to hate . <p> Trump displayed the loquaciousness and bravado of his 2017-2021 White House years as he held court in an ornate room at his Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida on Monday , making an economic announcement and fielding questions for more than an hour . <p> He bantered with reporters , a departure from the dark rhetoric and anger he often flashed on the campaign trail . He answered questions about Ukraine and Israel , but declined to say whether he had spoken to Russian President Vladimir Putin or whether he would support military strikes on Iran . <p> He seemed wiser to the ways of Washington and pleased , if a little bit puzzled , about his own new place in it , marveling at the steady procession of foreign leaders wanting to congratulate him and corporate CEOs rushing to meet with him . <p> " The first term , everybody was fighting me , " he said . " In this term , everybody wants to be my friend . I do n't know - my personality changed or something . " <p> Trump 's return to the White House on Jan. 20 comes at a time of deep polarization in the country and is likely to test democratic institutions at home and relations abroad . <p> Advisers say he has been focused on choosing members of his Cabinet and his broader team who are expected to carry out his plans to dramatically overhaul government and U.S. policy . <p> Since his Nov. 5 victory , Trump has not held one of his signature rallies or spoken at length to reporters , communicating instead through social media posts and the occasional speech . <p> On Monday , however , he had good economic news to announce . With SoftBank Group CEO Masayoshi Son at his side , Trump said the Japanese technology company would invest $100 billion in the U.S. over the next four years . <p> But that was just the warm-up act for the main event . <p> Standing in front of the Trump coat of arms , the president-elect outlined some of his priorities for his second term , criticized President Joe Biden 's outgoing administration and defended some of his own controversial cabinet picks . <p> The lengthy back and forth marked a contrast with Biden , who rarely holds news conferences . <p> ' GOT TA MAKE A DEAL ' <p> Trump predicted his choice for Health and Human Services secretary , Robert F. Kennedy Jr. , would be " much less radical than you think " but waxed on about whether there is a link between vaccines and autism while saying he supports the polio vaccine . Studies have found no links between vaccines and autism . <p> Trump said " it would be a tragedy " if his choice for defense secretary , former Fox News personality Pete Hegseth , does not make it to Senate confirmation amid concerns about allegations of misconduct in his professional and personal life . <p> He spoke about the possibility of issuing a pardon to New York City Mayor Eric Adams and said he thought it was possible to eliminate $2 trillion in government spending through the Elon Musk-led government efficiency project . <p> He said his administration will " take a look " at whether the Chinese-owned social media app TikTok should be banned in the U.S. and encouraged the U.S. military to tell the American public more about the nature of the drone sightings that have plagued the East Coast over the last several weeks . <p> Trump also veered into personal grievances , vowing to file lawsuits against multiple media companies that he felt have abused him . <p> " Now you need fair elections , you need borders , and you need a fair press , " Trump said , touching on some of his favorite grievance-related topics . " Our press is very corrupt . Almost as corrupt as our elections . " <p> That interlude aside , Trump spent most of his time talking about foreign policy and the economy . <p> Of the world 's two biggest hotspots , he was blunt : Hamas needs to reach a deal with Israel releasing the remaining hostages it is holding in Gaza , or face the consequences . <p> If no ceasefire deal is reached by the time he takes office , Trump said , " it 's not going to be pleasant . " <p> He also said Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskiy should be prepared to make a deal with Russian President Vladimir Putin to bring an end to the nearly three-year-old Ukraine war . <p> " Got ta make a deal , " Trump said . <p> ( Except for the headline , this story has not been edited by NDTV staff and is published from a syndicated feed. ) 
@@118967142 <h> The Three Lives of Cate Kay , Kate Fagan ( Jan. 7 ) <p> Best-selling author and sports journalist Kate Fagan 's debut novel is framed as an unreleased memoir from a pseudonymous queer writer who has spent her life running from her complicated past . After Cate Kay 's successful book series is optioned for film , she realizes she can no longer hide her true identity . With help from her former friends and lovers , she tells the unvarnished story of her rise to the top and what she sacrificed to get there . <h> How to Sleep at Night , Elizabeth Harris ( Jan. 7 ) <p> In journalist Elizabeth Harris ' debut , Ethan and Gabe are a loving New Jersey couple who find themselves slowly drifting apart due to their growing political differences . When Ethan decides to run for Congress as a Republican , his progressive partner is forced to choose between his leftist ideals and his upwardly mobile spouse . Across town , Nicole , a free-spirited artist turned suburban mom , is facing a similar conundrum in her marriage . It 's only when a former flame -- Ethan 's journalist sister -- reenters Nicole 's life that she begins to reconsider her desires in this domestic drama about love , marriage , and ambition . <h> Onyx Storm , Rebecca Yarros ( Jan. 21 ) <p> Onyx Storm , the third book in Rebecca Yarros ' wildly popular Empyrean series , picks up as Violet Sorrengail , a small but mighty dragon rider , prepares for war against the Venin , a species of human who have sacrificed their souls to steal power from the land.After more than a year at Basgiath War College , Violet realizes that support for the Venin , a.k.a. the Dark Wielders , does not only lie beyond the walls of the competitive military school , but also within its ranks . Unsure of who to trust , Violet embarks on a fantastical journey to find allies who can help her hone her emerging powers , which may ultimately be the key to winning this battle for supremacy . <h> We Do Not Part , Han Kang ( Jan. 21 ) <p> Nobel Prize-winner Han Kang 's We Do Not Part , newly translated from the original Korean by e. yaewon and Paige Aniyah Morris , delves into a tragic chapter of modern Korean history . After an injury lands Inseon in the hospital , she asks her friend Kyungha to do what seems like a simple favor : go to her home on Jeju Island and care for her beloved pet bird . But once Kyungha gets there , she is forced to grapple with the devastating effects of the Jeju Uprising on her country and its people . Kang 's novel is a haunting exploration of friendship amid historical trauma . <p> Black in Blues is an intimate meditation on the color blue and its connection to Black history and culture . Beginning with the production of indigo dye in the 16th century , a product that was often traded for an enslaved person , National Book Award winner Imani Perry traces the history of the hue while ruminating on how its many shades ( cobalt , periwinkle , navy ) became intertwined with Black identity . <h> Isola , Allegra Goodman ( Feb. 4 ) <p> When a 16th-century French noblewomanand her lover are left stranded on a small island by her volatile guardian , they must find a way to survive the winter cold with next to nothing . Inspired by the true story of Marguerite de La Rocque , Allegra Goodman 's latest novel is a feminist castaway tale about love , faith , and self-actualization . <h> Three Days in June , Anne Tyler ( Feb. 11 ) <p> Nothing seems to be going right for Gail Baines at the start of Pulitzer Prize winner Anne Tyler 's 25th novel , Three Days in June . The day before her daughter 's wedding , Gail loses her job , discovers she did n't get an invite to festivities organized by the groom 's mom , and gets stuck rooming with her ex-husband and a depressed cat . But that 's not the worst of it : her daughter just discovered a shocking secret about the man she is about to marry , putting their big day in jeopardy . In this charming marriage story , the revelation throws Gail back to the unresolved issues surrounding her divorce -- and she 's finally forced to reckon with its repercussions . <h> Crush , Ada Calhoun ( Feb. 25 ) <p> Taking a page from Nora Ephron 's Heartburn , writer Ada Calhoun 's debut novel , Crush , inspired by her own experience , looks at a marriage on the verge of collapse . After her husband suggests they open up their relationship , a happily married middle-aged wife and mother finds herself pursuing an emotional affair with a friend from college . As things heat up , she is forced to interrogate what it isshe wants and needs from a romantic partner . <h> Death Takes Me , Cristina Rivera Garza ( Feb. 25 ) <p> Death Takes Me puts a subversive twist on the traditional serial killer story . Cristina Rivera Garza 's 2007 novel , newly translated from the original Spanish by Robin Myers and Sarah Booker , begins with a literature professor also named Cristina findingthe body of a castratedman while jogging . After looking through the crime scene photos , she discovers a message written in coral-colored nail polish next to the corpse , lines of poetry from the late Argentine poet Alejandra Pizarnik , who Cristina has studied for years . When Pizarnik 's work starts showing up at similar crime scenes , Cristina is enlisted to help catch the murderer before the mysterious killer catches her first . <p> Award-winning novelist Omar El Akkad 's nonfiction debut , One Day , Everyone Will Have Always Been Against This , reckons with what it really means to be an American right now . After 20 years of working as a journalist , covering the War on Terror , the Black Lives Matter protests , and the growing death toll in Gaza , the Egyptian-Canadian writer , who now lives in the U.S. , has been disheartened by the lack of compassion and empathy he 's seen from his adopted country . With his new book , he tries to make sense of how the promise of the American dream has become such a nightmare . <h> The Talent , Daniel D'Addario ( Feb. 25 ) <p> With his debut novel , Variety 's chief correspondent and former TIME TV critic Daniel D'Addario shows why it 's not always an honor just to be nominated . The Talent follows a group of actresses on the awards-show trail during an especially fraught season . The five women -- the grande dame , the ing ? nue , the great thespian , the long shot , and the former child star -- must confront their rivalries , anxieties , and insecurities if they wish to take home a little gold man on Hollywood 's biggest night . <h> The Dream Hotel , Laila Lalami ( March 4 ) <p> Laila Lalami 's fifth novel , The Dream Hotel , is set in a near future where everything , including one 's dreams , is under surveillance . When museum archivist Sara returns to Los Angeles after a conference abroad , she is detained for a crime that , based on data from her dreams , she will commit in the future against her husband . To stop this from ever happening , she is taken to a retention center where she finds other women who are being held captive for crimes they have yet to commit . In this paranoid techno -- thriller , Sara must prove her dreams are not a reality in order to escape . <h> All the Other Mothers Hate Me , Sarah Harman ( March 11 ) <p> Former broadcast journalist Sarah Harman 's debut thriller , All the Other Mothers Hate Me , looks at the mysterious case of a missing boy who happens to be the heir to a frozen food empire . When 10-year-old Alfie Risby goes missing during a class trip , everyone starts pointing fingers . The boy 's rich parents land on former party girl and disgraced girl-band member Florence Grimes ' son , Dylan , who was mercilessly bullied by Alfie . Now Florence must do the unthinkable : make nice with the other school moms in order to clear her kid 's name . Another reason to get excited about this book ? It 's being adapted for TV by The Bear creator Christopher Storer . <h> The Antidote , Karen Russell ( March 11 ) <p> Karen Russell , the best-selling author of Swamplandia ! , returns with her long-awaited second novel , The Antidote , a historical epic set during the Dust Bowl era . After a severe dust storm ravages a small Nebraska town in 1939 , five locals -- a Polish wheat farmer , his orphan niece , an enchanted New Deal photographer , a chatty scarecrow , and a " Prairie Witch , " whose body stores the memories the settlers wish to forget -- find themselves struggling to rebuild . What the community soon realizes is that in order to create a more sustainable future , they must first reckon with the mistakes of their violent past . <h> Goddess Complex , Sanjena Sathian ( March 11 ) <p> To have a baby or not to have a baby , that is the question at the centerof Sanjena Sathian 's satirical second novel , Goddess Complex . After leaving her struggling actor husband over a disagreement about whether or not they should have children , Sanjana Satyananda is looking to move forward with her life and the anthropology dissertation she abandoned years earlier . But first , she must finalize their divorce . When her ex suddenly goes missing , Sanjana embarks on a phantasmagoric journey to find him that offers her a glimpse of what her life would be like if she did become a parent . <h> Stag Dance : A Novel &amp; Stories , Torrey Peters ( March 11 ) <p> Stag Dance , Torrey Peters ' follow-up to her best-selling 2021debut , Detransition , Baby , is a collection of one novel and three storiesthat offers a provocative look at gender rediscovery and indecision . The titular novel focuses on a group of male lumberjacks who decide to throw a dance partyin which some of the workers volunteer to attend as women , leading to an unlikely rivalry . The short stories look at a secret romance between a junior and his femme roommate at a Quaker boarding school , a hormonal apocalypse brought on by a vengeful ex-girlfriend , and a young person 's dark night of the soul while partying in Las Vegas . <h> Tilt , Emma Pattee ( March 25 ) <p> Climate journalist Emma Pattee 's debut novel , Tilt , is a natural disaster adventure set over the course of 24 hours . After a massive earthquake leaves a nine-months pregnant woman stranded at an IKEA in the middle of Portland , Ore. , she decides to walk back to her home , which is located on the other side of the disaster zone . Along the way , she witnesses a grocery store riot , makes friends with a young mother , and reflects on her struggling marriage , disappointing career , and anxieties surrounding impending motherhood . <h> Audition , Katie Kitamura ( April 8 ) <p> Intimaciesauthor Katie Kitamura 's tense new novel , Audition , begins with a Manhattan lunch date between an accomplished theater actor and a troubled man who is young enough to be her son . The twists and turns of this destabilizing novel , which unspools the competing narratives of the aforementioned characters , will leave readers wondering what is real and what is performance . <h> Authority , Andrea Long Chu ( April 8 ) <p> With her essay collection , Authority , Andrea Long Chu interrogates what makes a true expert in a world where everyone thinks they know everything . Across more than 20 pieces , most of which were previously published between 2018 and 2023 , the Pulitzer Prize-winning critic often turns her discerning eye toward the arts , tackling topics that include The Phantom of the Opera 's place in the musical canon , A Little Lifeauthor Hanya Yanagihara 's writerly motivations , and whether a video game adaptation can ever be considered prestige TV . <p> Philanthropist Melinda French Gates ' latestbook , The Next Day , encourages you to embrace life 's changes -- and she 's speaking as someone with a lot of experience in this department . Over the last four years , French Gates has gone through a series of personal and professional changes that have forced her to rethink her future , telling TIMEin June , " I feel like , Wow , I 'm 60 . I better surround myself with people and still travel so that I 'm still absolutely learning , because the world is moving , the world is changing . " With her newest memoir , she promises to offer a " rare window " into some of the most transformational moments of her life , including becoming a parent , the loss of a dear friend , and her recent departure fromthe charitable foundation she started with ex-husband Bill Gates . <h> Accidentally on Purpose , Kristen Kish ( April 22 ) <p> With her debut memoir , Top Chefseason 10 winner turned host Kristen Kish recalls her rise to culinary fame . In Accidentally on Purpose , she writes about her earliest days in the kitchen and shares behind-the-scenes stories of her reality show experience . Kish also delves into her Midwest childhood as a Korean adoptee and what it meant to come out as an adult , sharing the unexpected challenges and happy accidents that helped her find her true calling . <h> Matriarch : A Memoir , Tina Knowles ( April 22 ) <p> Matriarch offers Beyonc ? and Solange 's mom a chance to finally tell her story . In her debut memoir , Tina Knowles writes about raising two superstar daughters , but also details her own humble beginnings growing up the youngest of seven in 1950s Galveston , Texas . A talented seamstress and hairstylist , Knowles ( born Celestine Ann Beyonc ? ) longed to change the world through her art.In the book , she shares the creative risks , all-encompassing romances , and parenting lessons that helped her become one of the most famous moms in the world . <h> Zeal , Morgan Jerkins ( April 22 ) <p> Four years after the release of her fiction debut , Caul Baby , best-selling authorMorgan Jerkins returns with her second novel , Zeal , a multigenerationalromance that spans more than 150 years . In 2019 Harlem , Oliver and Ardelia throw a party to celebrate their engagement . Before it ends , Oliver hands his fianc ? e a love letter written in 1865 by a soldier who , after being discharged from the Union Army as a free man , returned home to Mississippi in hopes of reconnecting with the woman he loved . The centuries-old note will forever change the way the couple sees their love story . <h> Strangers in the Land : Exclusion , Belonging , and the Epic Story of the Chinese in America , Michael Luo ( April 29 ) <p> New Yorker executive editor Michael Luo 's first book covers the history of Chinese exclusion in America . Across nearly 600 pages , Strangers in the Land traces how the welcomed arrival of Chinese immigrants to the U.S. in the mid-19th century quickly turned violent , resulting in the passing of a series of exclusionary laws in 1889 . ( The title is taken from a direct quote from Supreme Court Justice Stephen Johnson Field 's majority opinion in the case , which marked the first time the U.S. barred a people from immigrating based on their race . ) Luo follows the trajectory of the Asian American community up until the present day , sharing how his own Taiwanese family was impacted by a disgraceful chapter in U.S. history . <h> The Manor of Dreams , Christina Li ( May 6 ) <p> YA author Christina Li 's adult literary debut , The Manor of Dreams , is a modern gothic tale about the battle over a trailblazing 1980s star 's crumbling mansion . Following Vivian Yin 's death , her daughters find themselves fighting an estranged mystery relative for the deed to their reclusive mom 's sprawling estate . Things only get worse once the warring factions decide to move into the dilapidated home together . Once inside , they discover that the manor hides terrible secrets that it 's hellbent on keeping . <h> Second Life : Having a Child in the Digital Age , Amanda Hess ( May 6 ) <p> With her first memoir , Second Life , New York Times critic at large Amanda Hess explores what it 's like to raise a child in our tech-saturated culture . Using her own experience as a first-time mom , she explores the advantages and drawbacks to having answers to every possible parenting question at your fingertips . And she offers a deep dive into the surreal network of prenatal genetic tests , gender reveal videos , and " freebirth influencers " that are shaping a new generation of chronically online caretakers . <h> The Emperor of Gladness , Ocean Vuong ( May 13 ) <p> Poet and essayist Ocean Vuong 's third novel , The Emperor of Gladness , is a big-hearted ode to second chances . After Grazina , an elderly widow with early-stage dementia , saves Hai from taking his own life , the teenager becomes her caregiver . The unlikely pair form an unexpected friendship that changes Hai 's life in ways he could never imagine . <h> Run for the Hills , Kevin Wilson ( May 13 ) <p> The latest novel from Kevin Wilson , the best-selling author of Nothing to See Here , centers around an unusual family road trip . Twenty years after her father left , never to be heard from again , Madeline " Mad " Hill meets Reuben , a 40-something stranger who claims to be her older half-brother . After hiring a private investigator to track down their absentee dad and other half-siblings , Reuben is hitting the road to confront the man who abandoned them and wants Madeline to come with . Once she says yes , she finds herself on an unbelievable adventure that will force her to question the true meaning of family . <h> Atmosphere : A Love Story , Taylor Jenkins Reid ( June 3 ) <p> With her new novel , Taylor Jenkins Reid , the best-selling author behind Daisy Jones and the Six and The Seven Husbands of Evelyn Hugo , heads to space . Set in the 1980s , Atmosphere follows physics professor Joan Goodwin as she attempts to become one of the first women to join NASA 's Space Shuttle Program . Amid her training , Joan finds herself falling for another recruit . When a terrifying incident on mission STS-LR9 puts the lives of her colleagues -- including her love -- on the line , Joan must find a way to bring the crew home safely . <h> The Catch , Yrsa Daley-Ward ( June 3 ) <p> In poet and writerYrsa Daley-Ward 's fiction debut , The Catch , twin sisters Clara and Dempsey have been all but estranged since their mother vanished in the River Thames . When Clara , now a famous author , spots a woman on the streets of London who looks exactly like their mom did the day she disappeared , she enlists her isolated sibling 's help in figuring out the true identity of this mystery woman . To do this , the two will have to finally confront their shared past . The book promises to be a thrilling exploration of the sacrifices women are forced to make for their families . <h> The Dry Season : A Memoir of Pleasure in a Year Without Sex , Melissa Febos ( June 3 ) <p> Around 2016 , best-selling author Melissa Febos swore off sex for a year . Now , with her fifth memoir , The Dry Season , she 's sharing what she learned from that experience . Mixing personal narrative with cultural criticism , the author of Girlhood explores how celibacy radicalized her , giving her permission to put all of her focus on herself , her work , and the platonic relationships that deserved more of her attention . <h> Flashlight , Susan Choi ( June 3 ) <p> Susan Choi 's new novel , Flashlight , inspired by her 2020 short story of the same name , traces the disappearance of a father across time , space , and memory . When Louisa was 10 , she took a walk on the beach with her dad , only to wake up washed up on shore alone . Her father , who could n't swim , had disappeared . For years , Louisa has found herself replaying the events of that day over and over , looking for clues that could help her find her missing dad . But now she 's beginning to wonder : What if he 's out there but does n't want to be found ? <h> Great Black Hope , Rob Franklin ( June 10 ) <p> Writer and poet Rob Franklin 's debut novel , Great Black Hope , is a coming-of-age story about race and class . Reeling from the recent death of his friend , Smith , a queer , Black Stanford graduate , is arrested for cocaine possession in the Hamptons and immediately placed in mandatory treatment . While there , he uses his prestigious education to his advantage , but he knows his race means he will only get so many chances . In order to get ahead , Smith will have to keep on the straight and narrow -- which is easier said than done . <h> I Want to Burn This Place Down , Maris Kreizman ( July 1 ) <p> In her debut essay collection , I Want to Burn This Place Down , cultural critic Maris Kreizman writes about losing faith in American institutions and finding power in transformative rage . In this series of politically charged essays , she shares her musings on the myth of the " good Democrat , " moving even further to the political left in her 40s , and being a former goody two-shoes who now believes you have to break a few rules to make this world a more equitable place . <h> Katabasis , R.F. Kuang ( August 26 ) <p> R.F. Kuang , the best-selling author behind the Poppy War trilogy , Babel , and Yellowface , returns to her fantasy roots with her new novel , Katabasis . After the death of her mentor , which may or may not be her fault , magician Alice Law decides she will travel to hell to save his soul . The only problem is her magic school rival , Peter Murdoch , is headed there too , with every intention of rescuing him first . The two soon realize that they must find a way to work together if they have any chance of making it back home alive . <h> Mother Mary Comes to Me , Arundhati Roy ( September ) <p> With her first memoir , celebrated Indian writer and activist Arundhati Roy traces her life from childhood to the present day , putting much of her focus on her complex relationship with her late mother . Roy began writing Mother Mary Comes to Me after her mother 's death in 2022 , but noted in the memoir 's announcement that she has " been writing this book all my life , " calling her mom " her most enthralling subject . " <h> A Silent Treatment , Jeannie Vanasco ( September ) <p> Jeannie Vanasco 's third memoir , A Silent Treatment , looks at the psychological cost of refusing to communicate . It 's a topic that has personal significance to the author ; her mother , after moving in with her during the pandemic , began using the silent treatment as a form of punishment for any perceived slight . She once went six months without saying a word to her daughter . Using her own harrowing experience as her guide , Vanasco investigates the punishing effects of leaving things unsaid. 
@@118979041 <h> Vybz Kartel 's Homecoming : From Prison Release To The Grammys &amp; Beyond <p> After his release in July 2024 , Vybz Kartel returned home to a warm embrace . Now , he 's plotting on his highly-anticipated homecoming performance , entrepreneurial ventures , and celebrating the 10-year anniversary of his seminal album , " Viking ( Vybz Is King ) . " <p> Vybz Kartel is finally home after 13 years of incarceration . Though much of the headlines in the music industry this year surrounded one beef or another , a string of arrests and heinous allegations , and other petty drama , the return of Vybz Kartel was well-received across the board . The dancehall sensation was released on July 31st , 2024 after successfully getting his conviction overturned . In the months that followed , he began laying the foundation for what will undoubtedly be an amazing 2025 , beginning with the highly anticipated Freedom Street concert on New Year 's Eve . <h> A Journey From Bars To Grammy Nods <p> It 's difficult to put Vybz Kartel 's impact throughout his incarceration in words . Even while serving a sentence that could 've left him behind bars for decades to come , there was n't a single party or summer where Vybz 's voice did n't ring through the speakers . Of course , this is not solely off of his back catalog but also , his prolific output that he managed to record while imprisoned . His 2024 EP , Party With Me , dropped two months before his release , and undoubtedly had a grip on the year . More importantly , it also earned him a Grammy nomination for Best Reggae Album . <p> The impeccable feat marked a warm welcome back for the King of Dancehall , one who has remained at the forefront of the genre for nearly two decades . His influence continuously exceeds his own genre , too . It 's hard not to look at the catalogs of Drake , Rihanna , and Major Lazer without feeling his impact and influence . <h> Vybz Kartel Is Still King ... 10 Years Later <p> As the new year begins , Vybz Kartel will honor the 10-year anniversary of his groundbreaking album Viking ( Vybz Is King ) with a deluxe re-release . Originally launched in 2015 , the album cemented Kartel 's reputation as the undisputed king of dancehall , featuring hits like " Unstoppable , " " Dancehall , " and " Gon Get Better . " The deluxe edition , set to drop in January 2025 , will include remastered versions of the original songs alongside bonus tracks that showcase Kartel 's evolving artistry . <h> Freedom Street : A Historic Return to the Stage <p> More than anything else , the most exciting part of Vybz Kartel 's return is the legendary performances that we will hopefully see in the future . On December 31st , 2024 , Vybz will headline the Freedom Street concert at Kingston 's National Stadium -- a landmark event marking his first performance since his release . As you could expect , it will be packed to the brim with dancehall 's finest talent including several collaborators , like Spice and Popcaan . Additionally , other prominent guests at the concert include the new generation , including Skillibeng and Kartel 's sons , Likkle Vybz and Likkle Addi . Vybz also confirmed that Sheba , Chronic Law , Tommy Lee , Shawn Storm , Gaza Indy and Lisa Hyper will appear on stage . <h> Expanding His Legacy With STR8 VYBZ Rum <p> Beyond an established legacy , Kartel is now proving that his name rings in boardrooms , too . The " Romping Shop " star leveraged his party-centric tunes for the launch of his premium rum line , STR8 VYBZ , in partnership with TJ Records and The House Of Angostura Bitters . Stepping into the alcohol business , STR8 VYBZ offers bold flavors with names inspired by his hit records , such as " Fever " and " Ramping Shop . " " STR8 VYBZ is more than just a rum ; it 's a movement . Each bottle embodies the energy and passion of my music , and the spirit of the culture I represent , " stated Vybz Kartel . Produced by Angostura Distillers in Trinidad and Tobago and distributed exclusively by Caribbean Producers Jamaica Ltd . ( CPJ ) , fans could get their hands on a bottle through select retailers across the Caribbean , the U.S. , and the U.K. <h> What Could 2025 Hold For Vybz Kartel ? <p> Although this final stretch of 2024 will be exceptionally busy for Vybz Kartel , we can only imagine what he has in store in the coming year . To see Vybz take home a Grammy would be nothing short of well-deserved , considering how understated his impact truly is in mainstream conversations . However , we also hope that the new year sees him releasing new music , specifically alongside former and new collaborators . It 's truly a new chapter in his career and we 're excited to see how 2025 shapes up for him . <p> Aron A. is a features editor for HotNewHipHop . Beginning his tenure at HotNewHipHop in July 2017 , he has comprehensively documented the biggest stories in the culture over the past few years . Throughout his time , Aron 's helped introduce a number of buzzing up-and-coming artists to our audience , identifying regional trends and highlighting hip-hop from across the globe . As a Canadian-based music journalist , he has also made a concerted effort to put spotlights on artists hailing from North of the border as part of Rise &amp;amp ; Grind , the weekly interview series that he created and launched in 2021 . Aron also broke a number of stories through his extensive interviews with beloved figures in the culture . These include industry vets ( Quality Control co-founder Kevin " Coach K " Lee , Wayno Clark ) , definitive producers ( DJ Paul , Hit-Boy , Zaytoven ) , cultural disruptors ( Soulja Boy ) , lyrical heavyweights ( Pusha T , Styles P , Danny Brown ) , cultural pioneers ( Dapper Dan , Big Daddy Kane ) , and the next generation of stars ( Lil Durk , Latto , Fivio Foreign , Denzel Curry ) . Aron also penned cover stories with the likes of Rick Ross , Central Cee , Moneybagg Yo , Vince Staples , and Bobby Shmurda. 
@@118980346 <h> Hamas fears one possible outcome in particular - that Trump may allow Netanyahu to automatically resume military operations in Gaza . <p> A rally calling for the release of the Israeli hostages held captive by Hamas in Gaza , at the Hostage Square in Tel Aviv , December 14 , 2024 ( photo credit : AVSHALOM SASSONI/FLASH90 ) <p> Significant progress is being made , and a hostage deal can be reached within a month , two officials with knowledge about the matter told The Jerusalem Post on Tuesday . <p> Behind the scenes , there is a positive atmosphere in the talks , according to officials involved in the negotiations , Hamas , and Arab media reports . <p> Brett McGurk , the White House coordinator for the Middle East and North Africa , and Adam Boehler , President-elect Donald Trump 's special envoy for hostage affairs , are visiting the region and held talks regarding a hostage deal on Tuesday . <p> Boehler , who is on a private visit , met with Coordinator for the Captives and the Missing Gal Hirsch , Defense Minister Israel Katz , and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . <p> One of the obstacles to a hostage deal is that every first stage , which is expected to last 40 to 60 days , will terminate once Trump has already taken office . <p> Hamas fears one possible outcome in particular and has asked for guarantees on the matter : that Trump may allow Netanyahu to automatically resume military operations in Gaza immediately after the first stage is complete and not advance to the second stage , informed sources told the Post on Tuesday.Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and US President Donald Trump at Ben Gurion airport on May 23 , 2017 ( credit : KOBI GIDEON/GPO ) <p> This is in contrast to Hamas 's understanding of how US President Joe Biden would approach it by applying more pressure to extend the ceasefire once the first stage comes to an end . <p> Israel has said it would refuse that such guarantees be given to Hamas . But it seems as if the terrorist group feels that with the warnings issued by Trump , a deal must be reached before he assumes office on January 20 , and there is a chance to secure these guarantees . <h> PMO response <p> The Prime Minister 's Office responded to media reports circulating that the creation of a Palestinian state was a condition for a hostage deal , stating , " The report about an Israeli commitment to a ' path toward a Palestinian state ' is completely false . " <p> " Prime Minister Netanyahu has acted and continues to act against the establishment of a Palestinian state that would endanger Israel 's security , " the PMO said . 
@@118980347 <h> Normalization between Israel and Saudi Arabia can only materialize when the war in Gaza ends , Saudi officials told Trump 's Middle East envoy . <p> Saudi Arabia will not normalize ties with Israel " unless it ends the war in Gaza , " Saudi officials have informed associates of US President-elect Donald Trump , a person with knowledge about the matter told The Jerusalem Post on Tuesday evening . <p> In recent weeks , Saudi officials , headed by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman , met people close to Trump , including Steve Witkoff , Trump 's incoming special envoy to the Middle East.Normalization between the countries could materialize only after the war in Gaza ends , the Saudi officials told Witkoff , according to the informed source . <h> A pathway toward a Palestinian state <p> The Saudis are also demanding " some kind " of statement regarding a Palestinian state , the sources said . The flags of Israel , Saudi Arabia , and the Palestinian Authority ( credit : SHUTTERSTOCK ) <p> The statement does not have to include recognition of a Palestinian state ; it can also be about an Israeli " pathway toward a Palestinian state , " the source said <p> A normalization agreement has been reached between Israel and Saudi Arabia , Haaretz reported earlier on Tuesday . 
@@118980348 <p> Sharon Aloni Cunio was kidnapped with her two young daughters along with her husband David , who remains in captivity . In her testimony , she spoke of the difficulty of being separated from her husband . <p> " The hardest moment of my life came on the first day of the hostages deal : we were separated from David , " she said . " We hugged him , and our daughters held onto him with their small hands , not understanding what this goodbye meant . He remained there , alone in the dark tunnels . <p> " Decision-makers must understand the scars and illnesses we returned with after just 52 days : pneumonia , infections , weight loss , unending fears and nightmares . Now imagine 438 days like this -- what David is enduring there alone - a year without us ? <h> ' 55 days of hell ' <p> Ilana Gritzewsky , who was rescued during the first hostage deal , and whose partner , Matan Zangauker , is still a hostage in Gaza , shared her experience . " For 55 days , I lived in hell . Fifty-five days of hunger , helplessness , humiliation , and fear . I was moved between apartments and tunnels , struggling to breathe , without a moment of hope . Every second there was etched into my body and soul . Every minute was a fight for survival . <p> " I stand here as a woman who returned from captivity . I know how that hell feels . I know what they 're going through right now - you can not abandon them for one more day , " she stated . " Make a deal . Now . A comprehensive deal . Leave no one behind . End this war in exchange for a deal ! " <p> She continued with an address to US President-elect Donald Trump : " You are a leader who knows how to win , how to turn the tide when all hope seems lost . Now is the moment to prove it . One hundred hostages -- men , women , children -- are still being held in the depths of hell . My partner , my friends , and countless innocent lives are wasting away while the world stands silent . This is your chance to change history . Step in . End this war . Bring the hostages home . No words . No promises . Only action . " <h> ' Terrorists took everything from me ' <p> Meirav Tal and her partner , Yair ( Yaya ) Yaakov , were kidnapped from Kibbutz Nir Oz . At the Hostage Square she spoke of Yaakov , whose body remains in captivity . " The thought that I 'm free and no longer moving between dark hideouts or tunnels takes me right back to that place , where I was kidnapped along with my beloved Yaya Yaakov 's children - Or and Yagil . Yaya was murdered , and his body is still held in Gaza . <p> " I was there for 53 days during which the terrorists took everything from me : control over my will , what I could or could n't do , when I could speak , when I could eat , drink , sleep and shower , when I could sit , lie down or stand - only my thoughts remained free -- the one thing they could n't take from me . <p> " We must not forget them . I was there , believe me . Forgetting them is killing them anew each day . Forgetting them means forgetting who we were , who we are , and who we want to be . Until Yaya and the last hostage are home , we can not heal without them . We must bring back Yaya and all the hostages in a comprehensive deal that will close this chapter for all of us and allow healing and recovery to begin . " <h> Lack of medical treatment <p> Released hostage Raz Ben Ami , whose husband , Ohad , is still held captive , spoke of the lack of medical treatment in Gaza as well as the new life-threatening risks that winter will bring to the remaining hostages . <p> " We know the Red Cross has n't seen or visited him , and just as I did n't receive medication for my condition , I have no doubt that Ohad is n't getting what he needs , " she said . " He 's likely only getting what I received - shouts and threats . I begged for the medical help I desperately needed ; my health severely deteriorated there and continued to decline after my return because I did n't receive the medications I must take . <p> " Winter is here , it 's cold , and there it 's even colder . Even when conditions in Gaza were supposedly tolerable , it took a long time until we received blankets and warm clothing . The cold , combined with more than a year of nightmare in tunnels under bombardment , is unbearable . <p> " Medical research shows that in this cold , without protective layers , the human body can not survive . We must remind everyone involved in negotiations that we can not delay . Every day there is one day too many - 438 days and nights are an endless hell . " <h> ' We must bring everyone back ' <p> Lena Troufanov , mother of Russian-Israeli hostage Alexander ( Sasha ) Troufanov , who remains in Gaza , remarked on her faith in Israel . <p> " When I was in captivity , I never doubted I would get out . I was certain that the State of Israel would do everything to free us , " she said . " For this feeling -- that our country stands behind us and will do anything for us regardless of the cost -- to remain alive for our children and grandchildren , we must bring everyone back . <p> What protected us was this sense of solidarity , this feeling of national unity and that every person matters . Please save them all , leave no one behind -- we do n't abandon our wounded in the field . " 
@@118980349 <p> Despite a steady stream of fake news reports that a hostage deal was imminent between August and December , top sources continued to tell The Jerusalem Post that the gaps were too large and no deal was forthcoming . <p> These sources turned out to be right : there was no deal over the last several months , and it does not seem that Israel and Hamas were ever even all that close to a deal . <p> Until recently . Woman walks past a poster calling for the release of the hostages held by Hamas , in Tel Aviv , December 5 , 2024 ( credit : REUTERS/STOYAN NENOV ) <p> Suddenly , pessimistic sources have flipped and are , for the first time since May and July , saying a deal could be close . <p> In May and July , Israel likely could have had a deal , but the price would have been an eventual full withdrawal of Gaza and an end to the war , even if the withdrawal might have been split up into stages . <p> It is also not 100% clear whether Israel would have gotten all of the hostages at the time or just most of them . <p> But the breakthrough made at the time was that Hamas had dropped its demand that Israel must agree to a permanent ceasefire and a complete withdrawal from the Gaza Strip , including the Philadelphi Corridor , before any talks could take place . <p> After dropping that demand , Hamas also accepted the process laid out in the deal , by which some 33 to 18 hostages would be freed in phase one in exchange for a lull to the war and the release of Palestinian security prisoners and terrorists held in Israeli jails . <h> Phase one <p> On day 16 of phase one , which was set to last for six weeks , talks would begin on the issue of a permanent ceasefire . Hamas then asked for 29 changes , according to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , and attempted in other de-facto ways to re-insert the issue of a permanent ceasefire . <p> Even back in July there was essentially an agreement that Israel would get some dozens of hostages in phase one of the deal before having to withdraw from the Philadelphi Corridor . <p> To get the rest of the hostages , it would later have to withdraw from the corridor . <p> There was distrust over the terms , and neither Netanyahu nor then-Hamas chief Yahya Sinwar were anxious to cut such a deal at the time , though Mossad Director David Barnea , IDF Chief of Staff Lt.-Gen . Herzi Halevi , Shin Bet ( Israel Security Agency ) Director Ronen Bar , and then-defense minister Yoav Gallant all pressed the prime minister to go for the deal . <p> So when Ismail Haniyeh was killed in Tehran , allegedly by Israel , and Jerusalem also killed Hezbollah 's military chief , and then Israel started to tear apart the rest of Hezbollah and had a round of fighting with Iran , the talks were put on hold . <p> Once Sinwar was killed in mid-October , the talks ceased completely as Hamas did not even know who was in charge and how to convey binding decisions to Israel or the hostage talks mediators . <p> Fundamentally , the sides are still trying to navigate disagreements over which and how many Israeli hostages get released in phase one versus how much of a withdrawal Israel must make at different stages , and most importantly with both sides trying to position themselves on the all-important long-term question of who will run Gaza post-war . <p> It seems that the current breakthrough is that Hamas is ready to give a smaller number of hostages in exchange for a smaller initial withdrawal commitment from Israel . <p> In exchange for getting an upfront down payment , it seems Netanyahu is showing some greater flexibility about withdrawals at the later stages of the deal . <p> Back in July , Netanyahu was floating creative formulas where the IDF might keep a single-digit number of watchtowers on the Philadelphi Corridor to keep a symbolic footprint while withdrawing most IDF forces . A Jewish man wears a Kippah featuring the face of US President-elect Donald Trump , in Jerusalem , December 16 , 2024 ( credit : MARC ISRAEL SELLEM ) <p> At the time , Hamas was rejecting such formulas . It may be that Hamas may be more open to such face-saving gestures for Netanyahu and Israel , now that the Jewish state thoroughly defeated Hezbollah , likely pushed Iran out of the war , as well as with the fall of the Iran-allied Assad regime , and the imminent return of Donald Trump to the White House , given that he leans more heavily to the Israeli side in conflicts with the Palestinians . <p> An interesting variable remains how many Palestinians will be allowed to return to northern Gaza from southern Gaza and whether " northern Gaza " will include all of that area , or only the bottom two-thirds , while leaving the currently mostly cleared top third still free of Palestinian civilians for the time being . <p> And then there is just crossing the Rubicon . Both Netanyahu and Hamas 's latest leadership will face domestic attacks for showing weakness if they make concessions for such a compromise deal . Both sides know that once certain concessions are made , they can not be easily taken back and they give some power to the other side about the post-war framework . <p> For example , former top Shin Bet official Arik Barbing has told the Post that Hamas , in all scenarios , will leave ambiguity about some remaining hostages it is holding , to ensure it retains leverage . If Hamas manages to do that after Israel has already stopped the war for months and withdrawn from most of Gaza , will Israel really be ready to restart the war as it did after the first deal in November 2023 ? <p> In short , a deal is likely imminent for the first time since July , but until Hamas has actually handed over the hostages , everyone will need to continue to hold their breath . 
@@118980356 <h> It is interesting how quickly Iran , Turkey and also voices in Qatar have mobilized to single out Israel for critique regarding Syria . <p> Iran and Turkey , as well as media and commentators linked to both countries , are seeking to condemn Israel for its recent bombing of Syrian military sites . They are also condemning Israel for its operations in a buffer zone on the Golan . <p> The IDF seized the buffer zone and the peak of Mount Hermon after the Syrian regime collapsed on December 8 . The IDF has also struck various threats in Syria , such as warplanes and naval vessels so that they do not fall into the hands of enemies . <p> Why are Iran , Turkey and other countries and groups associated with them seeking to condemn Israel ? They want to try to deflect from what is going on in Syria and their own role in the country . Iran has backed militias smuggling weapons in Syria and Turkey illegally occupies a large part of northern Syria . Turkey has carried out numerous airstrikes in northern Syria , targeting Kurdish groups . Turkish-backed militias have also filmed themselves kidnapping women and killing civilians . <p> These militias , part of the Turkish-backed Syrian National Army , have been murdering and kidnapping people in northern Syria for years , usually under the umbrella of protection by Turkish armed forces . <p> It is interesting how quickly Iran , Turkey and also voices in Qatar have mobilized to single out Israel for critique regarding Syria . They appear to be positioning themselves to back the new authorities in Damascus and they want to urge the new emerging Syrian government to condemn Israel.Iraqi Kurds wave flags of Iraqi Kurdistan during a demonstration ( credit : SAFIN HAMED / AFP ) <p> How do the condemnations manifest themselves ? <p> IRNA in Iran , a state media publication , ran numerous articles on December 10 slamming Israel . One article said that Hezbollah had " denounced " Israel 's " invasion " of the Golan Heights . <p> " The statement emphasized that the hostile invasion of Syrian territory , along with continued violations of the ceasefire in Lebanon and incursions into the Gaza Strip , present a significant threat to regional nations , highlighting the necessity for unity and collective condemnation of the aggressions , " the report said . <p> A third report said that " Zionist warplanes " had attacked Syria . The goal of these reports is to pressure the Syrian rebel groups who took over Damascus from Assad to condemn Israel . The goal of Iran and Turkey is to create tension . Doha , which backs Hamas , likely also wants to distract from Hamas crimes in Gaza . Doha recently hosted the Doha Forum where countries such as Iran , Turkey and Russia discussed the future of Syria . They understood Assad was finished , and now they want to angle to take advantage . <h> Turkey and Qatar <p> Meanwhile , Al-Arabiya also reported about Turkey slamming Israel . " The Turkish foreign ministry said on Tuesday that it strongly condemned Israel 's entry into the buffer zone between Israel and Syria and its advance into Syrian territory , " the report said . " Israel is once again displaying its occupation mentality , " Turkey 's foreign ministry said in a statement . Turkey is trying to become a power broker in Syria . Turkey invaded Afrin in northern Syria in 2018 and ethnically cleansed it of Kurds , moving militias into the area . <p> Later Turkey also invaded another area in Syria in 2019 , effectively controlling around half of the border areas of northern Syria , including areas with hundreds of thousands of Syrians . When the Syrian rebels moved to oust Assad , Turkey ordered militias to attack the US-backed Syrian Democratic Forces , a mostly Kurdish group . Turkey has used the power vacuum in Syria to attack Kurds . Israel has expressed support for Kurds in Syria . Israel 's Foreign Minister Gideon Sa'ar posted a message on December 10 saying " the attacks on Kurds must stop . " <p> On December 9 Sa'ar said that in a briefing to foreign " I emphasized the importance of protecting minorities in Syria . The attacks on the Kurds , as we saw yesterday in Manbij , must stop ! We are discussing this with our friends in the U.S. administration and other countries . The international community has a moral obligation toward those who fought bravely against ISIS and are also a stabilizing force in Syria . " <p> Anti-riot police stand guard as flags of Palestine , Turkey and Hezbollah are placed in front of Turkish embassy in Tehran ( credit : REUTERS/MORTEZA NIKOUBAZL ) <p> Qatar has also slammed Israel and it appears that many commentators who are linked to Doha are being mobilized to highlight Israel 's activity in Syria . " The State of Qatar strongly condemns the Israeli occupation 's seizure of the buffer zone with the sisterly Syrian Arab Republic and the neighboring leadership sites , considering it a dangerous development and a blatant attack on Syria 's sovereignty and unity , as well as a flagrant violation of international law , " Doha said on December 9 . <p> The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Qatar said that it " warns that the policy of imposing a fait accompli pursued by the Israeli occupation , including its attempts to occupy Syrian territories , will lead the region to further violence and tension . In this context , The Ministry stresses the need for the international community to assume its legal and moral responsibilities to compel the occupation to comply with international legitimacy resolutions , as well as to unite in confronting its opportunistic schemes . " 
@@118980357 <h> The pursuit of the vestiges of the terror organization and the last of the terrorists must not delay the return of our hostages for a single minute . <p> The Commanders for Israel 's Security movement , which numbers over 550 former senior officers in the IDF , Mossad , Shin Bet , Israel Police , and Foreign Service has called upon the government of Israel and the prime minister not to let the torrent of current events distract them from the urgent need to complete the war objectives in the South -- first and foremost , to return all of the hostages , bring those who were murdered to burial , and conclude the war that is continuing to claim casualties on a daily basis . <p> While the people of Israel are praying for the release of the hostages , and each hostage that returns constitutes an entire world , victory will be achieved only when the last of the hostages returns and IDF soldiers are not risking their lives in a war , the military objectives of which were achieved long ago : Hamas no longer rules , and its leaders have been eliminated and its brigades dismantled . <p> The only worthy image of victory is one of all of the hostages back with their families . <p> After over 430 days of fighting , the time of reckoning has come . <p> The fact that Hamas is an organization of despicable murderers who deserve to be eliminated is indisputable . But the pursuit of the vestiges of the terror organization and the last of the terrorists must not delay the return of our hostages for a single minute.IDF soldiers operate in the Gaza Strip , December 3 , 2024. ( credit : IDF SPOKESPERSON 'S UNIT ) <p> The test of leadership is the sound management of risks . Based on the cumulative security experience of the movement 's hundreds of members , we assert that the IDF 's war achievements enable the government to make the obligatory decision : The war can be ended in order to return the hostages . And if a new threat arises in the South , warfare can be resumed as needed . The government has reached this conclusion vis- ? -vis the North . All the more , it should make the decision regarding the South , primarily for the sake of the hostages and their loved ones . <h> The price of failing to act in accordance with the declared war aims <p> It is no secret that the government 's conduct reflects conflicting interests . On the one hand , there are the declared objectives that are guiding the IDF , with wide public support : destroying the military and governmental capabilities of Hamas and returning the hostages . <p> On the other hand , there is an extremist stream in the government that is promoting entirely different objectives : occupying Gaza , establishing a military government , and renewing Jewish settlement . These latter objectives have never been openly presented , raised for discussion , or voted upon . Instead , they are being advanced in a criminal way . This course of action threatens to entangle the IDF in an endless war , risking soldiers ' lives and dooming the hostages , all for the sake of the delusions of an extremist stream among us . <p> The military campaign has fulfilled its objectives . An aimless war means the needless death of soldiers . <p> Hamas as a military force no longer exists . Its chain of command has been severed , its brigades dissolved , and most of its operational infrastructure destroyed . The IDF completed its offensive long ago and its hands are tied in continuing the fight against what remains of Hamas due to the fear of harming the hostages . The deployment of IDF forces in routine military outposts exposes them to guerrilla attacks . It has already been proven more than once that using military pressure as leverage for liberating the hostages endangers both the hostages and those fighting to free them . The accomplishments in the North that led to a separation of the fronts have created additional leverage for reaching an accord in the South . The path to an agreement is paved . A decision is needed . <h> Avoiding discussion of the ' day after ' -- a component in a plan of deception <p> The regional and international coalition led by the United States and including Arab states hostile to Hamas has made it clear that it is prepared to administer Gaza -- including both the security and financial aspects -- and to prevent the resurgence of Hamas , all in full coordination with our forces and with respect for Israel 's security needs , provided that the Palestinian Authority ( PA ) is on board . Israel 's rejection of this option underlines the contradiction between the declared war objectives , for which our soldiers are risking their lives , and the fulfillment of the fantasies of a small group that has taken an entire state hostage . We are paying a steep price for this surrender to extremists and will continue to pay for years to come . <h> The ' Netanyahu plan ' has been available since May <p> On May 27 , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu delivered a plan to the US and to Hamas ( via Egypt and Qatar ) for ending the war and returning the hostages . Under the title " General Principles for an Agreement between the Israeli Side and the Palestinian Side in Gaza , " the document includes " the release of all Israeli hostages in exchange for an agreed number of Palestinian prisoners and a sustained lull in fighting that will lead to a permanent ceasefire , the withdrawal of Israeli forces from the Gaza Strip , the rehabilitation of the Strip , the opening of border crossings , and the enabling of transit of people and goods . " <p> The plan received the Israeli cabinet 's approval and was adopted by the US president and the UN Security Council . According to reports from the intermediaries , Hamas also approved the plan on July 2 . The tragedy is that the father of the plan is also the one who killed it : A few days after Hamas ' approval , a " Document of Clarifications " emerged that introduced the contrived and baseless demands for retaining Israeli control of the Netzarim and Philadelphi corridors . We do n't know whether Hamas would have ultimately torpedoed the deal , but we 'll also never know , because the prime minister 's new conditions prevented Hamas from having to face this dilemma . <h> We 're just a step away from victory in Gaza -- it 's up to us <p> After 430 days of warfare that achieved Israel 's military objectives and with 100 hostages still held in Gaza , the government demonstrated , in reaching a ceasefire in Lebanon under even more complicated circumstances , that it is possible to make decisions . The time has come to make decisions about Gaza , too . <p> After achieving a military victory , it is possible and essential to ( 1 ) return the hostages -- not in stages that endanger the lives of those not released in the initial stage ; ( 2 ) ensure that the next government in Gaza is not a Hamas regime ; ( 3 ) maintain overall security responsibility in the coming years ; and ( 4 ) condition the rehabilitation of Gaza on its demilitarization . <p> This is the plan the prime minister devised , and the majority of the Israeli people support it . The prime minister should stick to this plan and implement it . <p> It is in our hands . The prime minister of Israel should make it clear to the public whether he is serving the national interest , Israel 's security , and the will of the majority and thus working to immediately execute his initiative , or whether he sides with the extremist minority that is embroiling Israel in a delusional adventure in Gaza at the expense of the hostages , the IDF soldiers , and Israel 's security . <p> There 's no complete victory without the release of all of the hostages . <p> The writer , an IDF major-general ( ret. ) , is chairman of Commanders for Israel 's Security . He is a former deputy defense minister and served as deputy IDF chief of staff . 
@@118980358 <h> In short , a deal is likely imminent for the first time since July , but until Hamas has actually handed over the hostages , everyone will need to continue to hold their breath . <p> Despite a steady stream of fake news reports that a hostage deal was imminent between August and December , top sources continued to tell the Jerusalem Post that the gaps were too large and no deal was imminent . Until recently . <h> " We emphasize that the continuation of the PA 's security operation indicates that it is turning a deaf ear to all Palestinian voices , " the terror group claimed . <p> By JERUSALEM POST STAFF A member of the Palestinian security forces aims a weapon during clashes with gunmen in Jenin in the West Bank , December 14 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/RANEEN SAWAFTA ) <p> Hamas called on " all movements , factions , tribal gatherings , and human rights organizations to mobilize massively " to repel the ongoing operation carried out by Palestinian Authority security forces in the West Bank city of Jenin in an official statement on Tuesday . <p> " We emphasize that the continuation of the PA 's security operation indicates that it is turning a deaf ear to all Palestinian voices calling for its cessation and for the protection of the resistance , " the terror group 's statement read , adding that the PA operation " serves only the occupation army and its futile dreams of ending the resistance in the West Bank . " <p> The large-scale Jenin operation began earlier in December after Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad terrorists stole vehicles belonging to the Palestinian Authority . <h> Katz 's statement comes following an N12 report which claims Katz told a US official that Israel was not interested in controlling Gaza after the war . <p> By JERUSALEM POST STAFF Israel Katz attends a replacing ceremony at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Jerusalem on November 10 , 2024. ( photo credit : YONATAN SINDEL/FLASH90 ) <p> Defense Minister Israel Katz clarified his position regarding Israel 's involvement in the Gaza Strip following the war in a Tuesday post on X/Twitter . <p> " In response to various reports - my position regarding Gaza is clear . After we defeat Hamas 's military and governing power in Gaza , Israel will maintain security control over Gaza with full freedom of action , " Katz noted , affirming this would be in a manner similar to the West Bank . <h> Syrian rebel leader slams Israel 's expansion of buffer zone <p> HTS leader Ahmed Al-Shara slammed Israel for its expansion into Syrian territory , which the rebel leader claimed is a violation of the 1974 agreement , in an interview with journalists , the New York Times reported on Monday . <h> Israel is likely to finally respond to Yemen 's Houthis , ' Post ' has learned <h> The Jerusalem Post learned that Israel has lost patience with the Houthis and may be ready to act . <p> By YONAH JEREMY BOB Supporters of Yemen 's Houthis attend a rally in solidarity " with the people of Gaza " in the Houthi-controlled capital Sanaa on December 13 , 2024. ( photo credit : Mohammed Huwais/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> Israel is likely to finally respond to Yemen 's Houthis in the coming weeks , The Jerusalem Post learned on Monday following yet another ballistic missile attack by the Iranian proxy . 
@@118980359 <p> This statement followed an earlier Reuters report that the prime minister was on his way to Cairo for hostage deal negotiations , which is reportedly expected to be signed in the coming days , sources briefed on the talks reported . <p> An Egyptian source also denied reports that Netanyahu would be visiting Cairo , according to Egyptian state-owned news agency Al-Ahram . <p> While State Department Spokesperson Matthew Miller told reporters on Tuesday afternoon " that 's a fair fair way to characterize it , " he also said the administration is very much " tempered by the realism of the past several months " where a deal has been within the 10-yard line before but the two parties have not agreed to a final deal . <p> " So here 's what I 'll say about it , " he said . " We continue to engage with the mediators . The mediators continue to engage with Hamas and with Israel . Based on the remaining issues , we should be able to get to an agreement , we should be able to bridge the disagreements between the two parties . " <p> But again , Miller noted , there have been times during previous negotiations where the Biden administration thought the differences were bridgeable and ultimately a deal was not reached . <p> " As you 've heard me say before , all the United States can do is push and try to come up with compromises , but we can not dictate to either side what choice they have to make . They have to make those decisions for themselves . " <p> Miller declined again to comment from the podium on any reporting of the details of the agreement , only saying " we are calling on Israel to reach a ceasefire agreement , we have not called for them to unilaterally disarm against an enemy that is still committed to the destruction of Israel . " <p> He repeated that the US does not support unilateral disarmament as Hamas holds 100 hostages , including seven American citizens . <p> In addition to ceasefire talks , Miller confirmed US and Israeli officials will meet early next week for the conflict channel for Gaza to " get access to information about a number of incidents " that the US has concerns about . <p> Additionally , hostage talks were in a " decisive and final phase , " a senior Palestinian official involved in indirect negotiations told BBC . <p> Along with Netanyahu flying to Cairo , Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas is expected to visit Egypt before heading to the Vatican , Hezbollah-affiliated news network Al-Mayadeen reported . <h> What could the hostage deal include ? <p> This report follows Hamas reportedly ceding its requests demanding that Israeli troops withdraw from the Gaza Strip , and the war ends in the framework of a hostage deal , The Washington Post reported on Tuesday , citing an official for the terror group . <p> The deal will reportedly include a 60-day pause in the conflict and the release of the hostages in exchange for Palestinian prisoners . <p> However , the official noted that Hamas still demanded that Palestinians be allowed to return to the north of the Gaza Strip . <p> " There is a noticeable shift in public opinion , " a Hamas member was quoted as saying by the publication , adding , " There is now a strong desire to end the war at any cost . " 
@@119013143 <p> While these aerial objects may prove to be harmless , their mysterious origins and unexplained nightly intrusions underscore the increasing threat posed by unmanned aerial systems , or UAS . <p> As drone tech advances faster than countermeasures , the United States must deploy more robust detection , tracking and mitigation technologies , especially around critical infrastructure and sensitive sites . <p> Some of the most effective tools for addressing this growing challenge may come from an unexpected source : Israel , which has honed cutting-edge technological advances during its ongoing war . <p> Israel has long been at the forefront of counter-drone technology due to its unique security needs . <p> Yet even the most technologically advanced countries today have vulnerabilities that constantly require new solutions . <p> On Oct. 7 , 2023 , Hamas laid the groundwork for its assault on southern Israel by using inexpensive commercial drones to drop explosives on cameras and communications infrastructure along the Gaza border . <p> Since then , Israel has been facing an array of malicious drone infiltrations . <p> In July , Houthi operators in Yemen flew an Iranian-made UAV more than 1,200 miles and crashed it into a residential apartment building directly behind the US embassy 's Tel Aviv branch , killing an Israeli civilian in his bedroom . <p> Days later , Hezbollah published video footage captured by its reconnaissance drones of Ramat David Airbase , at which the terrorist group launched missiles in September and October . <h> Thanks for signing up ! <p> This scalable software solution enables operators to pinpoint drones in all environments and under all conditions -- and can also identify their make , model and operators . <p> R2 Wireless technology has been deployed in Israel to identify drone threats near borders , around cities and above critical infrastructure , and its system could certainly give New York and New Jersey officials a powerful tool to help solve their aerial mystery . <p> Perhaps the most theatric of Israel 's counter-drone innovations is Robotican 's Goshawk system , an aerial interceptor designed to hunt down and neutralize enemy drones . <p> Goshawk uses an autonomous drone equipped with nets that it automatically releases to capture drones in midair , minimizing collateral damage while ensuring that the intercepted drone can be analyzed for intelligence . <p> One of the more concerning conclusions to draw from the recent US drone sightings is that they are seemingly flying untracked and unmanaged across our skies . <p> As drone usage becomes more widespread , the need for unmanned traffic management systems is becoming indispensable . <p> Airwayz has developed a platform that can coordinate more than 1,000 drones at a time in a complex environment . <p> It has proven critical in managing Israel 's increasingly crowded airspace during the war . <p> This technology not only brings order to drone traffic , but can also predict flight paths and behaviors to sound early warnings of suspicious drones . <p> Of necessity , Israel 's war has proven to be a sandbox for testing modern defense innovation , including the ability to combat the complex challenges presented by drone warfare . 
@@119013457 <h> A tiny fintech stock is up 4,700% in 2 days after taking a stake in a company involved with Israel 's Iron Dome missile system <p> Angle down iconAn icon in the shape of an angle pointing down.Israel 's Iron Dome missile defense system fires interceptors at rockets launched from the Gaza Strip . Tsafrir Abayov/AP <p> Nukkleus stock surged over 4,700% in two days after it said it bought a stake in a defense firm . <p> The fintech acquired 51% of Star 26 Capital , which owns a controlling stake in a supplier to Israel 's Iron Dome missile system . <p> Nukkleus 's market value rose from $3 million to $125 million after the deal . <p> A little-known fintech company 's stock has soared more than 4,700% over the past two days after it announced a deal to acquire a controlling stake in a firm with ties to Israel 's Iron Dome missile defense system . <p> Advertisement <p> Before Tuesday , Nukkleus was a fintech company focused on the digital asset space . According to its website , its mission was to " aggregate an industry-leading ecosystem of disruptive blockchain and digital finance brands . " <p> But late Tuesday , the company announced that it acquired a 51% stake in Star 26 Capital , a defense acquisition company that held a 95% ownership stake in a firm called RIMON . <p> Advertisement <p> " RIMON is a leading Israeli supplier of components for the Iron Dome missile defense system , as well as other defense and tactical solutions , " Nukkleus said in its new release . <p> Israel 's Iron Dome system has long been viewed as an engineering marvel and has seen heavy use in the last year amid missile attacks by Hamas and Iran . <p> According to Nukkleus , the transaction was finalized on December 15 . The deal included cash , a promissory note , and common stocks and warrants valued at about $26 million , according to a filing made with the SEC . <p> Advertisement <p> The agreement also included an option agreement allowing Nukkleus to acquire the remaining equity stake in Star 26 at a later date . <p> Manny Shalom , Nukkleus 's newly appointed CEO , said that its new ownership stake in RIMON " strengthens Nukkleus 's capabilities in delivering innovative defense solutions . " <p> RIMON has two business lines : it sells generators , masts , and lighting solutions , and develops tactical vehicles for special defense forces . <p> Advertisement <p> Before the deal , Nukkleus had generated $0 in revenue in the trailing twelve months and had a market valuation of about $3 million . As of Wednesday afternoon , the company had a market valuation of about $125 million . <p> Nukkleus stock price soared from $1.39 before the deal was announced to as high as $67.77 on Wednesday , representing a jump of about 4,775% . <p> Representatives for Nukkleus did not respond to a request for comment on the deal . 
@@119026241 <p> " Congratulations to Tucker Carlson for becoming the leading platform for fringe Holocaust deniers , conspiracy theorists , and blood libel enthusiasts who oppose the State of Israel , " Chikli said on social media Tuesday night . <p> Carlson hosted Jeffrey Sachs on his Monday show , who claimed that the collapse of the Syrian regime last Sunday was orchestrated by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu as part of a 30-year campaign to remake the Middle East . <h> Israeli-driven foreign policy <p> " Israel has run American foreign policy in the Middle East for 30 years , " said Sachs . " That 's how it works . Now we have the Israel lobby . " <p> Sachs claimed that America had gone to war with Lebanon , Iran , Iraq , Syria , Libya , and Sudan at Netanyahu 's behest . <p> " The United States goes to war on his behalf , " said Sachs . <p> Israel sought to establish a " Greater Israel , " according to Sachs , bringing down any government that supported the Palestinians . The " Greater Israel " conspiracy theory , as described by Sachs , meant either controlling or annexing the West Bank , Gaza , and the Golan Heights or , in a more extreme version , seizing all the territory from the Nile to the Euphrates River . <p> Northeastern University Associate Professor and security expert Max Abrams slammed Sachs on X/Twitter as a liar based on Sachs 's theory , in which he claimed that after September 11 , General Wesley Clark was shown a document that the US would go to war with seven countries on Israel 's behalf . Abrams cited a recounting of the event by Clark , noting , " He never says anything about Israel , Jews , or Zionists . " <p> Breitbart Senior Editor-at-Large Joel Pollak criticized Sachs for describing Syria as a " normal , functioning country " in 2011 , noting that the Ba'athist government had already killed tens of thousands of citizens in earlier civil unrest . <p> Other conservative journalists slammed Sachs as an anti-American communist and questioned why Carlson invited him onto his show . <p> " He 's a major supporter of communist China , and he believes the US should not dominate its rivals and should not lead the world , " Daily Wire reporter Ryan Saavedra said on social media . " He endorsed Marxist Jill Stein for president in 2024 . " <p> Tablet Magazine issued a scathing criticism of Sachs on X as " a failed economist who claimed he had the secrets to eliminating global poverty , got exposed as a fraud , and has reinvented himself as an anti-American , anti-Ukraine , anti-Israel stalwart who constantly lies as he has continued to take in millions and millions of dollars from George Soros . " <p> Carlson had previously courted controversy when he hosted writer Darryl Cooper , who claimed that the death of Nazi prisoners of war and political dissidents was because of poor planning and logistical issues rather than murder . <p> Cooper also argued that former British prime minister Winston Churchill was the chief villain of World War II rather than Adolf Hitler . 
@@119026244 <h> Conservative leaders assure Herzog : movement thrives amid challenges <p> Israel 's President Isaac Herzog attends an emergency conference on the medical condition of Israeli hostages in the Gaza Strip at the President Residence in Jerusalem , December 10 , 2024. ( photo credit : OREN BEN HAKOON/FLASH90 ) <p> Contrary to what is frequently published in American Jewish media , the Conservative movement in the US is thriving , a delegation of Conservative rabbis and lay leaders told President Isaac Herzog . <p> The delegation , which consisted of Americans and Israelis , was led by Rabbi Jacob Blumenthal , CEO of the United Synagogue of Conservative Judaism and the Rabbinical Assembly , and had participated in the global convention of the Rabbinical Assembly in Jerusalem . The convention was attended by approximately 250 Conservative activists from around the world . <p> The delegation expressed concern about the fate of the hostages but , on a more positive note , assured the president that Conservative congregations in the US are thriving . <p> While conceding that some congregations are dwindling and synagogues are closing down , Blumenthal said that the Conservative movement provides democracy , pluralism , Jewish life , and tradition , which collectively attract a lot of unaffiliated Jews . <p> Herzog was curious about how the movement succeeds in maintaining its members and making sure that synagogues do not close . AIMING FOR the strengthening of Israeli unity , people gather with Israeli flags at one of some 100 locations around the country , in Hispin , Golan Heights , in August . ( credit : MICHAEL GILADI/FLASH90 ) <h> ' Religion is going downhill ' <p> Blumenthal acknowledged the difficulty , saying that " religion is going downhill almost everywhere , " and pointed out that it is more difficult for organized religion to exist in Israel because the government does not provide funding for non-Orthodox religious movements . " It 's a roadblock to Jewish life . " <p> Explaining the success of the Conservative movement , which in Israel is largely known as Masorti , Rakefet Ginsberg , the executive director and CEO of the Masorti Movement in Israel , said " there are people who go to extremes , but , at the same time , they want to be together . They want to be under the same roof as the people they disagree with . " <p> She insisted that " Conservative Judaism is growing , " adding that a lot of unaffiliated Jews come to the Conservative movement because of its values . These are people who want to grow as individuals . <p> " To grow , you ca n't be unaffiliated , " she said . " You have to be affiliated if you want to belong . We do n't have to be the center of their life , but we have to be part of their life . " <p> A man from Pittsburgh said he belongs to a thriving congregation but is the only one in his age group who attends services regularly . Other regulars are either much older or much younger than he is . <p> The president of a congregation in Maryland said there are 50 synagogues within a two-mile radius of her own synagogue . " There 's enormous growth , " she affirmed . <p> Conservatives are loyal Zionist affiliates , and they are aware that anything that happens in Israel impacts them . While proud of the achievements of the Start-Up Nation , said the woman from Maryland , they are disturbed when watching television to see the divisiveness and abuse among Israeli leaders at a time when Jewish solidarity is so essential . <p> Another woman who spent a year in Israel as a student found the Orthodox control of marriage , divorce , and conversion to be a deterrent , even though she loves Israel . <p> A woman from New York recalled the first time she had come to Israel with her parents in 1969 and had instantly felt part of the country . But when she went to the Western Wall , she was disappointed to see that gender segregation was enforced . <p> After the introduction of the egalitarian section of the Western Wall , she went there and found that it was empty . So she went to the main area and found that both the women 's and the men 's sections were full . " I felt unwanted . It was heartbreaking , " she said . <p> She may have gone on the wrong day . According to Ginsberg , services in the egalitarian section are held on Mondays and Thursdays , and there are often times when there are 40 services in a single day . <p> Herzog revealed something that even most Israelis do n't know . People with the most polarized ideologies come together to debate and negotiate , but such meetings are held in accordance with the Chatham House Rule -- meaning that none of the participants is identified or quoted outside the room in which discussions are held . <p> Whatever the general impression may be , Herzog was adamant that Israel continues to be a democracy . <p> There was consensus between him and members of the delegation that much of the negativity about Israel derives from fake news or what Herzog termed " false narratives. " 
@@119026248 <h> Trump , the Abraham Accords , and my Gaza solution - opinion <h> " In Gaza , the " protectors " will be the Abraham Accords countries , with the important active addition of Saudi Arabia and Egypt . " <p> US PRESIDENT-ELECT Donald Trump meets with House Republicans on Capitol Hill in Washington , last week . It is difficult to tell how Trump will react if Israel will fail to end the current war on its various fronts by the time he enters office , says the writer. ( photo credit : BRIAN SNYDER/REUTERS ) <p> With the clock ticking down to Donald J. Trump re-entering the White House as the 47th president of the United States , the same clock is also ticking down in Israel 's war against Hamas in Gaza , which begs the question : What is the best post-war solution for Gaza in the context of a fractious and dangerous Middle East ? <p> Earlier this year , The Jerusalem Report published my concept of a future Gaza as a model for a new Middle East My concept is to convert a destroyed Gaza into an Abraham Accord project built on the known concept of protectorates and in Gaza 's case , not based on the support of one large nation but a collective protectorate of the existing Abraham Accord partners to reconstruct Gaza both physically and ideologically . <p> The ideological part is more important than structural rebuilding of Gaza . The Gaza Strip was being controlled by a radical and authoritarian ideology that led to its physical destruction.Read More ... <p> A new Gaza can not be put into the hands of those who refuse to forge a rational peaceful future for its people based on an active desire to live in peace and partnership alongside Israel . <h> Why the Palestinian Authority ( PA ) can have no part to play in formulating a new Gaza <p> The corrupt Fatah-PLO leadership in Ramallah follows the same playbook as Hamas in indoctrinating its young into a mindset of antisemitism and the concept of a Palestine replacement of Israel.Palestinians take part in a protest in support of prisoners held in Israeli jails , in the West Bank city of Hebron on December 1 , 2024 ( credit : YONATAN SINDEL/FLASH90 ) <p> The reason the authoritarian PA will not hold elections is that internal polls show that Palestinians would vote Hamas into power . Knowing this and to appease their people , Mahmoud Abbas and his Fatah adopted their pernicious " pay-to-slay " policy , incentivizing Palestinians to kill Jews . Palestinians affiliated with Hamas are included in their reward system . <p> It is unacceptable for Israel to have this imposed on Gaza by myopic two-state peacemakers who blindly try to kosher Ramallah . It is suggested that Israel should control Gaza -- but who is going to rebuild it ? I doubt that hard-working Israelis are willing to foot the bill , and no international partners seem willing to participate if Israel takes permanent charge of Gaza . <p> Some see Gaza as an integral part of ancient Israel , but surely they are eyeless in Gaza as in the legend of a blinded Samson . And I do n't want to see my grandchildren patrolling the streets of Gaza with more than two million Arabs and just a few thousand Jews . <p> There are some who propose easing Gaza into a Jewish majority by offering Gazan families humanitarian repatriation of $250,000 and free flights to whichever destination they prefer . These dreamers have yet to tell me who is going to donate billions of dollars needed to fund this hallucination . <p> The best solution for Gaza is my concept of a new Gaza to be constructed as an Abraham Accords protectorate . It was unlikely that Saudi Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman would take the courageous initiative to join Israel in a Gaza venture -- until Donald Trump was re-elected . Now all options are on the table . <p> Trump the peacemaker will be keen to extend his successful Abraham Accords initiative by bringing Saudi Arabia into the fold -- and what better way for this to be put to the test that in rebuilding Gaza ? It is in Saudi Arabia 's interest to actively pull Gaza away from Iranian influence and do so in partnership with others under the protection of the United States . <p> Gaza is the model for a new Middle East -- a partnership of genuine cooperation in the form of an Abraham Accords protectorate . The status of protectorates is recognized under international law , and the specific relationship between the " protectorate " and the " protector " is well known . As a political and governing system , the concept of protectorates has been successful and is working well in the international arena . In Gaza , the " protectors " will be the Abraham Accords countries , with the important active addition of Saudi Arabia and Egypt . <p> The reconstruction will build a new society not based on radicalism but on the moderate form of Islam represented by Saudi Arabia , under the Crown Prince , the UAE , and Bahrain . They will not only build the new mosques and madrassahs Islamic religious schools . They will employ the imams and religious teachers introducing their brand of Islam , which includes recognition of Israel . <p> When Israel was developing Gaza , a grand plan was proposed for an offshore airport , marina , and seaport with a connecting road and rail bridge to the mainland . This project was introduced by Israel Katz , the current defense minister . Formerly , Katz served as foreign and transportation minister . Gaza is ideally located to be the Cote d'Azur of the Middle East bordering on Israel , Egypt , and the Mediterranean , making it a potential geographic pivot for Gaza-based tourist travel into Egypt and Israel . <p> The protectorate concept will nurture Gaza into becoming an independent state , with its citizens receiving Gazan identity and passports , eventually being introduced as a new member of the United Nations sponsored by its Abraham Accords protectors ? <p> The writer is a senior associate for public diplomacy at the Israeli Institute for Strategic Studies . 
@@119026249 <h> Palestinian families sue State Department over US support for IDF <h> Washington faces criticism from human rights groups for maintaining its support for Israel with no major policy changes . <p> By REUTERS DECEMBER 18 , 2024 01:48 <p> Palestinians inspect damage at the site of an Israeli strike on a house , amid the Israel-Hamas conflict , at the Nuseirat refugee camp in the central Gaza Strip , December 7 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/Ramadan Abed TPX IMAGES OF THE DAY ) <p> Palestinian families sued the US State Department on Tuesday over Washington 's support for the IDF amid the war in Gaza that has killed tens of thousands , a court filing showed . <p> The lawsuit filed in the US District Court for the District of Columbia alleged that the State Department under Secretary of State Antony Blinken has deliberately circumvented a US human rights law to continue funding and supporting the IDF , accused of atrocities in Gaza and the West Bank . <p> The Leahy Laws prohibit providing US military assistance to individuals or security force units that commit gross violations of human rights and have not been brought to justice . Both South Africa at the World Court and Amnesty International have accused Israel of reportedly committing genocide and war crimes . Israel has denied the charges . <h> A vehicle is parked near the International Red Cross field hospital in southern Gaza , which has been set up to try to meet what it described as an ' ' overwhelming ' ' demand for health services since Israel 's military operation on Rafah began last week ? , amid the ongoing conflict with Israel ( credit : REUTERS/DOAA ROUQA ) <h> Criticism for supporting Israel <p> Washington faces criticism from human rights groups for maintaining its support for Israel with no major policy changes . <p> " The State Department 's calculated failure to apply the Leahy Law is particularly shocking in the face of the unprecedented escalation of Israeli gross violations of human rights since the Gaza War erupted on October 7 , 2023 , " the lawsuit claimed . <p> The war was triggered when Hamas terrorists attacked Israel on October 7 . <p> The lawsuit was filed by five Palestinians in Gaza , the West Bank and the United States . The lead plaintiff was a Gaza teacher who claimed to have been displaced seven times in the current war and lost 20 family members , the lawsuit says . <p> The State Department declined to comment and referred reporters to the Justice Department , which had no immediate comment . 
@@119026254 <h> The three were shot dead a little over a year ago after they emerged from a building where they had been hiding , waving a white flag and calling to the soldiers in Hebrew . <p> A movie is currently being filmed about the heartbreaking deaths of three Israeli hostages held by Hamas in Gaza , who were able to escape their captors but who were mistakenly killed by the IDF , the N12 website reported earlier this week . <p> The movie 's working title is Be Strong . <p> The three hostages were Yotam Haim , 28 ; Alon Shamriz , 26 ; and Samer Talalka , 24 . Haim and Shamriz were kidnapped from Kibbutz Kfar Aza , while Talalka , who is from Hura , was kidnapped from Kibbutz Nir Am , where he was working . <p> The three were shot dead a little over a year ago after they emerged from a building where they had been hiding , waving a white flag and calling to the soldiers in Hebrew . <h> Three hostages killed by the IDF in Gaza <p> The movie , which is being filmed in Georgia , is being directed by veteran Israeli director Doron Eran , who has made such movies as God 's Sandbox , Cold Feet , and Betrayal . He is consulting with the hostages ' families to bring their story to the screen . Iris Haim and her son , Yotam. ( credit : Courtesy ) <p> Haim 's mother , Iris Haim , made headlines after the tragedy by saying that she did not blame the soldiers who killed her son by mistake , saying that she placed the responsibility for the deaths of the three hostages solely on Hamas . <p> The movie will feature three of Israel 's most promising newcomers in the lead roles . <p> Shahar Tavoch , who plays Haim , gained attention as a nerdy soldier in an intelligence unit who is the first to realize that an attack is being planned for Yom Kippur in the series Valley of Tears . <p> Tomer Machloof plays Shamriz . He has appeared in Tehran , Fauda , and Chanshi . Wael Hamdun , who is playing Talalka , can currently be seen in the Yes miniseries One Day in October as a Bedouin who helps hide a Jewish woman during the October 7 massacre . <p> In addition to the Israeli cast , a role will be played by Selma Blair , the American-Jewish actress best known for Legally Blonde , Cruel Intentions , and American Crime Story . <p> The three hostages represented a cross-section of Israeli society . Haim was a talented heavy metal musician who played drums with the band Persephore . Talalka , part of the Bedouin community , worked at the Nir Am chicken hatchery with his father and brothers . He was the eldest of 10 children . Shamriz was a computer engineering student . <p> Eran told N12 : " To me , the three abductees represent rare courage . The film is intended to immortalize their unimaginable story and to tell the world about the challenges and pain that the citizens of the State of Israel have been facing over the past year . " 
@@119055659 <p> The comments section is closed . To submit a letter to the editor for publication , write to letters@nytimes.com . <p> The war in Gaza is a conflict with little chance of escape -- even for the thousands of Palestinians who have been grievously wounded in Israel 's attacks . <p> But a small number of the sick and injured make it onto a list of critical cases to be treated by doctors abroad . <p> The price to leave can be high : a missing leg , a lost arm . But for these few , there is a way out . <h> Escape From Gaza <p> Photographs and video by Paolo Pellegrin <p> Text by Nicholas Casey <p> Dec. 18 , 2024 <p> This wall marks the border between Egypt and Gaza . More than two million Palestinians are stuck on the other side . <p> Yet docked only 25 miles away off the coast of Egypt is a floating hospital run by the United Arab Emirates . <p> More than 8,000 Gazans have been brought here for treatment since the start of the war in October 2023 . <p> Each patient arrives not only with injuries but with a chapter of this ugly war 's history . <p> On Jan. 24 , Reem Elian says , Israeli soldiers shot up her home in Khan Younis , killing her son , a pharmacist , and injuring her other sons and sister-in-law . <p> After the attack , Elian says , soldiers interrogated the survivors for hours , but when she asked for an ambulance , they refused . She made it to the nearest hospital on foot , bleeding and hopping on one leg . <p> Younger patients hardly know how to process what happened to them . <p> Yazen Khaled became an orphan after an airstrike killed his father , his mother , all of his siblings and some of his neighbors . <p> In Gaza , his leg was amputated without anesthesia . In Egypt , more of his limb had to be removed after it became infected . <p> In May , Israel entered Rafah , and the border was closed , blocking access to the hospital . By the end of the summer , the U.A.E. had found a new way out for the wounded -- a humanitarian flight aboard a converted passenger jet to a housing complex in Abu Dhabi . <p> Every few weeks now , desperate families depart Gaza in the early morning hours , making their way on buses to an airport just across the border in Israel . <p> Evacuating the injured by plane is not without its risks . Patients can go into shock midair . Sudden drops in blood pressure could prove deadly . <p> On a recent evacuation , doctors maneuvered a 10-year-old with autism named Ali Darwish onto the plane . Ali was paralyzed from the waist down after an Israeli strike hit his home . <p> As the plane took off , his grandmother shuddered . She had never flown before . Ali looked scared himself , but he is nonverbal and just sat silently gripping the armrests . <p> Cancer treatment in Gaza was difficult before the war and is impossible now . Oncology patients , along with injured children , are prioritized for evacuation . A man with a brain tumor entered the plane and whispered something to a doctor making the rounds . " He wants to smoke , " the doctor said . <p> The doctor moved on to Shams Awida , an 18-year-old who lost most of her eyesight in an attack that damaged her face . <p> As the air pressure changed after takeoff , her eyes began to hurt . " How are you doing ? " the doctor asked . She was all right , she said -- she could still see a little , enough to recognize his outline . <p> Three hours later , the flight touched down . Earlier that morning they were in Gaza . Now they were in Abu Dhabi , an unfamiliar land . <p> If there is a place to return to a normal life after Gaza , it is here . <p> The childhoods that were shattered by war are taking shape again . For the first time , schools are places of learning , not shelters from airstrikes . Children play on a soccer field between the buildings during the day . <p> Yet trauma is around every corner . Maram Qassim , who is 5 , was pronounced dead after an airstrike destroyed the school where she was taking shelter , killing dozens . <p> She was wrapped in a burial cloth when her mother insisted on seeing her one more time and squeezed her hand . Maram faintly squeezed back -- she was alive . <p> In the U.A.E. , Maram recovered her sight , which she lost in the attack , and some of the movement she lost on one side of her body . <p> Children who lose a leg often refuse to try walking on a prosthetic limb , at least at first . But trainers coax them to try . Other children who have also lost legs form bonds with new arrivals and help them learn to walk again . <p> Mohammed Al Jafari , who is 19 , lost his arm in an Israeli attack near his home in Rafah . " My mother said : ' Please , do n't go out . Something might happen , ' " he said . " It was the worst mistake of my life . " <p> Since arriving in the U.A.E. this year , he has learned to use a prosthetic arm and has enrolled in engineering classes to study artificial intelligence . " He 's a small hacker , " one official said . " In four years , " Al Jafari said , " I 'll be a big hacker . " <p> For the younger children , daily life is often about finding new friends who share their struggles . <p> One morning this April , Sham Musselem was with her uncle in the courtyard of her home when an airstrike hit . <p> Her uncle died in front of her , and she was left with her right arm hanging from her body . It was later amputated . <p> At the Emirates Humanitarian City , she met other girls who lost limbs . They spend hours roaming the compound , just trying to be kids again . <p> But while these Gazans have found safety here , they have not found certainty . They still wonder : Will Israel allow us to return ? And what will happen to those we left behind ? <p> Paolo Pellegrin is a Magnum photographer . His most recent book is " Event Horizon , " a collection of images from conflicts and showing the effects of climate change . Nicholas Casey is a staff writer based in Madrid . He previously wrote about Issa Amro , a Palestinian activist in Hebron , who advocates for nonviolent resistance . 
@@119056358 <h> The Cost of Lawlessness on the West Bank <p> Israeli soldiers in Beit Furik , a town in the occupied West Bank where Jewish settlers burned the property of Palestinian families ( Nasser Ishtayeh / SOPA Images / LightRocket / Getty ) <p> December 19 , 2024 , 10:46 AM ET <p> It was a normal morning during the autumn olive harvest . On a hillside northeast of Ramallah , on November 8 , a group of roughly 15 or 20 Palestinians from the village of Deir Jarir were picking dark olives , the most important agricultural product in the occupied West Bank , from low , young trees . <p> With them were volunteers from the Israeli group Rabbis for Human Rights , along with Rabbi Arik Ascherman , the leader of Torat Tzedek , a group whose name translates to " Torah of Justice . " They 'd come to help with the harvest and to act as a buffer between the Palestinians and any Israeli settlers who might decide to give them trouble . <p> A few minutes after they began , a settler came down the hillside , cursing and shouting at everyone to leave . A shaky video from a volunteer 's phone shows him shoving villagers and Ascherman . A dozen or more young male settlers soon followed , wearing masks and waving clubs . At another nearby grove , settlers hurled stones , injuring one of the Palestinian pickers . <p> Next to show up was a handful of Israeli soldiers . The commander presented his phone , showing a freshly issued order declaring the groves a closed military area , off-limits to civilians . Ascherman protested , pointing to a 2006 Israeli supreme-court ruling banning the army from closing an agricultural area to Palestinian farmers in order to end a clash in which the farmers themselves were under attack . <p> Then the police arrived . They arrested not the settlers but Ascherman , along with a staff member of Rabbis for Human Rights named Dolev Assaf , and a volunteer wearing a T-shirt with the words Fuck Ben-Gvir , referring to Itamar Ben-Gvir , the far-right minister of national security , who oversees the police . Ascherman was released under a court order banning him from the West Bank for 15 days . At the hearing , he told me , a police investigator referred to him as an " anarchist . " <p> This account is based on videos and on interviews with Ascherman , Assaf , and others . No settlers were arrested or identified . But the settlers succeeded in their apparent goal : The farmers of Deir Jarir were kept off their land and could not harvest their olives . The settlers went unpunished . <p> The threats , the violence , and the unfair outcome were what made that day outside Ramallah a normal one . The Israeli human-rights group Yesh Din ( " There Is Law " ) has documented 114 incidents of violence by settlers or soldiers against Palestinians engaged in harvesting olives in the 49 days from October 1 to November 18 . The distinction between soldiers and settlers has blurred , particularly during the current war . Yesh Din stressed that its list of attacks on Palestinians was not complete . These were only attacks connected to the olive harvest . <p> The larger picture is especially grim : Settler violence against Palestinians in the West Bank has leaped , as reported by the Israeli media and human-rights groups . Especially since the establishment of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's current hard-right government two years ago , " you see this explosion , this eruption " of settler violence , Sarit Michaeli , the international-outreach director for the rights organization B'Tselem , told me . And in that time , law enforcement has virtually vanished , the attorney Roni Pelli of the Association for Civil Rights in Israel told me . <p> Keeping statistics on the violence has been beyond B'Tselem 's resources , Michaeli said , because it would require investigating each case . Deciding what to count as an incident is also " a minefield , " she said . Some cases are obvious , such as when masked settlers entered the village of Huwara , in the northern West Bank , on December 4 ; set fire to a house and two vehicles ; and attacked one man with staffs and stones , reportedly fracturing his skull . Other cases are harder to categorize , such as when settlers return to an olive grove and threaten farmers they 've previously attacked , causing the farmers to flee . <p> Here 's one sign of the escalation : In September 2023 , B'Tselem reported that over the previous two years , about 480 Palestinians had abandoned their homes and fled from six hamlets in the West Bank , in large part because of settler attacks . A little more than a year later , at the end of this past October , Palestinians from 20 additional communities and single-farm families had left their homes -- a total of nearly 1,200 people in just more than half the time . <p> In principle , Israel 's national police force should be a source of statistics on crimes by Israelis against Palestinians in the West Bank . In reality , there 's been a " sharp drop " in the number of Palestinians willing to file complaints , Yesh Din 's executive director , Ziv Stahl , told me , as trust of the police has diminished dramatically . ( Spokespeople for the Israeli police and military declined to comment for this story . ) <p> Violence in the West Bank goes both ways ; Palestinians have attacked Israeli soldiers , police , and civilians . Last Wednesday , for instance , a Palestinian gunman opened fire on an Israeli bus in the West Bank , killing a 12-year-old boy and wounding three other passengers . The difference is that the Israeli army and security services seek to prevent these attacks and to catch the perpetrators . The bus attack set off a 10-hour manhunt , at the end of which the perpetrator surrendered to Israeli forces . In the case of settler violence , such efforts appear to be sporadic and half-hearted . <p> This problem dates to the early years of Israeli settlement in occupied territory . In 1982 , then -- Israeli Deputy Attorney General Yehudit Karp issued a report that detailed the failure of Israeli police to investigate offenses by settlers against Palestinians . As Karp told me in a 2009 interview , the army and police had regarded their role as protecting Israelis , not Palestinians . <p> However difficult to record and quantify , the trend is clear : In recent years and months , settler attacks on Palestinians have grown in frequency , and the perpetrators have faced fewer consequences . Three factors are responsible . A new form of settlement has brought more radical settlers closer to Palestinian communities that are hard to protect , because they are scattered and rural . The Hamas attack on Israel and the subsequent war in Gaza have elevated tensions between Israelis and Palestinians in the West Bank . And Netanyahu 's government has put extremist settlers , including Ben-Gvir , in key positions of authority . <p> Until the 1990s , most Israeli settlements in the West Bank took one of two forms : large suburban towns near the Green Line -- the pre-1967 border -- and smaller exurbs deeper in occupied territory . The exurban settlements were intended to prevent even a partial Israeli withdrawal , and they attracted particularly ideological , religious-nationalist settlers . Yet even they actually covered only a small part of West Bank land . <p> In the 1990s , after the Oslo Accords , a new type of settlement sprang up . Many of these so-called outposts began as a handful of mobile homes on a hilltop near an established settlement . Their purpose was to fill in gaps between the older settlements , break up Palestinian-populated land , and thereby prevent the creation of a contiguous Palestinian state . In 1998 , then -- Foreign Minister Ariel Sharon set the tone in a radio interview , telling settlers they should " run , should grab more hills ... Everything we do n't grab will be in the Palestinians ' hands . " Many of the outposts were home to the most extreme of all settlers . I have been visiting settlements for many years in the course of my reporting ; when I went to the outposts , I was dismayed by the radical readings of Judaism I heard -- at the extreme , asserting the settlers ' right to the real estate around them , the olive trees , the fruits of the harvest . Clashes with local Palestinians increased . <p> Yet the outposts were mere dots on hilltops , and the settler movement 's leaders and government backers feared that the settlement project still lacked control of the countryside . Beginning a bit more than a decade ago , the movement supported another burst of new settlements -- most of them farms , each populated by a family and a few young people . According to a recent Haaretzreport , there were just 23 such farms in 2017 -- and about 90 today . <p> The farm campaign is backed by Amana , an organization that has played a major role in settlement building for decades . In an interview last year in a settler magazine , Amana 's head , Ze'ev ( Zambish ) Hever , said that the organization 's goal is to hold as much open land as possible in reserve for future settlement . To that end , most farm settlers herd goats , sheep , or cattle over large areas . These farms " hold two and a half times as much land " as all the previous settlements combined , Hever said . <p> Officially , the farms are illegal -- they were established without government approval -- but very few have been forced to evacuate , especially under the current government . Hagit Ofran , who works for Settlement Watch , an investigative project that is part of Peace Now , told me that the farm settlements are even receiving state support . Through one channel , she said , some farms have received grazing permits on what Israel had previously ( and controversially ) designated state-owned land . Through another channel , farms have been allocated funds for security equipment , including all-terrain vehicles , camera systems , and drones . <p> Drones , Ofran said , are sometimes used to frighten Palestinians ' herds and drive them off the land . Incidents of settlers from the farms harassing Palestinians are a daily matter , she asserted . <p> Many of the farms are at the southern end of the West Bank and on the hills overlooking the Jordan Valley , where pasture land fades into desert . A number are near Palestinian herding hamlets , B'Tselem 's Michaeli said -- " some of the poorest " Palestinian communities . Once a farming outpost is established , she said , the nearby Palestinians start to experience incidents of arson , cut water pipes , and the like . The result , Michaeli said , is " like a war of attrition " in rural areas . And behind the scenes , the government backs one side . <p> Throughout occupied territory , clashes between settlers and Palestinians spiked when the war began last year . Understandably , many settlers feared that they 'd be the next target of a Hamas onslaught . " I 'm not discounting the trauma and fear " that Israelis , including settlers , experienced after October 7 , Michaeli told me . But some settlers , she asserted , also seized a " golden opportunity " to harass their Palestinian neighbors . <p> Six weeks after the start of the war , the Association for Civil Rights in Israel and other groups sent a letter to Netanyahu , the military chief of staff , and the national police chief listing a dizzying number of settler attacks . Nine Palestinians had been killed ; 160 families had been forced to leave their homes . In the village of Kisan , the letter said , " settlers attacked village residents and fired live rounds , in front of soldiers , " wounding several residents . At Khirbet Yarza , settlers " stole about 50 cows . " The army and the police , the letter indicated , had failed to protect Palestinians in the West Bank . <p> In many cases , the settlers had worn army uniforms . That apparently fits another pattern : Regular army units that had been deployed in the West Bank were redeployed to fight in Gaza . To protect settlements , the military called up settlers for reserve duty and assigned them to regional defense units . So in some cases , said Pelli , the civil-rights lawyer , the " settlers who rioted " in a village are the same people as the soldiers who are supposed to deal with the incident . And in these or other cases , settlers who had previously harassed villagers apparently now did so in uniform , with even greater impunity . In July , Major General Yehuda Fox , the outgoing head of the Israel Defense Forces ' Central Command , which is responsible for the West Bank , acknowledged the increase in settler violence and admitted , " It was my responsibility to act . And , unfortunately , I did not always succeed . " <p> The makeup of Netanyahu 's government has contributed to the sense among settlers of being beyond the law . The ruling coalition includes two far-right parties headed by settlers . Netanyahu gave one of them , Bezalel Smotrich , the head of the Religious Zionist Party , control over most aspects of settlement , including granting legal status to outposts established in defiance of Israeli law . One such outpost is home to a Knesset member from Smotrich 's party , Simcha Rothman , a key figure in the government 's effort to eviscerate Israel 's judicial system . <p> Ben-Gvir , also a settler and the leader of the Jewish Power Party , received the Ministry of National Security , which administers the national police force . By law and tradition , the minister 's control of the police is limited , with operative decisions , such as how to handle an investigation or a disturbance , the sole province of professional police , not politicians . But Ben-Gvir has repeatedly crossed that line . <p> The effect on how the police handle -- or do n't handle -- settler violence is best illustrated by the case of Avishai Mualem , the officer in charge of the serious-crimes investigation unit in the West Bank police district . In a Knesset subcommittee hearing in March , Mualem testified that the number of complaints filed with the police regarding violence by settlers had dropped by half since the beginning of the war , compared with the same period the year before . In the southern sector of the West Bank , the South Hebron Hills , half of the complaints had been false , he said . He blamed " anarchists " -- apparently meaning Israelis who volunteer to assist Palestinians . <p> In early November , the outgoing defense minister , Yoav Gallant , summoned Mualem 's superior , the commander of the West Bank district , for a meeting . Gallant reportedly meant to reprove the officer for failing to do enough about settler violence . A source in Gallant 's office told the Israeli media that Ben-Gvir had blocked the meeting -- and had asserted that " there is no such concept as ' settler violence . ' " <p> Mualem was arrested on December 2 by an independent unit in the state attorney 's office that investigates crime within the police force . Mualem is alleged to have failed to arrest Jews suspected of terror attacks , at Ben-Gvir 's request , and leaked police-intelligence information to the minister , all in return for rapid advancement . Because of the alleged quid pro quo , the potential charges include bribery . Mualem denies the allegations . But if the claims are correct , then the police failure to crack down on settler violence is a matter of policy , dictated by Ben-Gvir . <p> Settlers who attack Palestinians surely suspect as much . And the price that Palestinians in the West Bank pay for the resulting lawlessness includes the loss of crops , homes , and lives . <p> Israelis pay a less obvious price that is nonetheless quite real . From its start , the settlement enterprise has been tainted by disregard for the rule of law . The first Israeli settlement , in the Golan Heights in the summer of 1967 , received funds fraudulently allocated by a government ministry . Soon after that , the first settlement in the West Bank was established in knowing violation of international law . A 2005 report detailed how the outposts established in the previous decade , in violation of Israeli law , received funding and other support from government ministries . Enforcement of the law against violent settlers has been sporadic all along . <p> The goal of settlement in occupied territory has always been to change the borders of Israel . But an essential element of a democratic state is the rule of law . The failure to stop settler violence is the latest sign that in the bid to expand Israel 's territory , the settlement project corrodes the foundations of the state itself . <h> About the Author <p> Gershom Gorenberg is a contributing writer for The Atlantic . He is an Israeli journalist and historian whose most recent book is War of Shadows : Codebreakers , Spies , and the Secret Struggle to Drive the Nazis from the Middle East . 
@@119056845 <h> Israel carries out airstrikes in Yemen against Houthis <p> Israel carried out airstrikes early Thursday in Yemen in response to a Houthi attack hours earlier , the latest move by Israeli forces to weaken Iran and its proxies in the region . <p> The first wave of strikes hit military targets in the ports of Al-Hudaydah , As-Salif , and Ras Isa , while the second wave focused on targets in Sana'a , according to Lt. Col. Nadav Shoshani , an Israeli military spokesman . <p> Israeli military officials said they conducted " precise strikes on Houthi military targets in Yemen , including ports and energy infrastructure in Sana'a , which the Houthis have been using in ways that effectively contributed to their military action . " <p> The strikes killed nine people , according to Al-Masirah , a TV channel affiliated with the Houthis . It came after Israeli military officials said they had intercepted a missile launched from Yemen . The missile , which was not cleanly intercepted by Israel 's air defense systems , hit a school , though it was outside of regular educational hours and no one was hurt . <p> " Israel 's long hand will reach you as well , " Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz said in a warning to Houthi leaders following the strikes . " Whoever raises a hand against the State of Israel -- his hand will be cut off . Whoever harms us -- will be harmed sevenfold . " <p> The Houthis have launched several missiles at Israel from Yemen over the past year or so . The attacks began in the aftermath of Hamas 's Oct. 7 , 2023 , terrorist attack in Israel , which the Houthis said was in support of the Palestinians . They also began targeting vessels transiting the areas off of Yemen 's coasts , a primary route for shipping commerce , forcing many companies to avoid the area to instead sail around the Cape of Good Hope , the southernmost part of the African continent . <p> The United States and the United Kingdom have also carried out airstrikes targeting the Houthis ' arsenal and positions , but they have had little impact in stopping the attacks in the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden . <p> Israel has conducted some strikes on the Houthis as well , however it has been a much less direct conflict than theirs with Hamas and Hezbollah . Israeli forces have decimated Hamas in Gaza and Hezbollah in Lebanon , including taking out several senior leaders of both , including Yahya Sinwar and Hassan Nasrallah , and Israel has asserted its military prowess with targeted strikes inside Iran as well . <p> " The fact of the matter is this all came about because of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's leadership , and some may say stubbornness , to stick to the fight , to keep pressing against Israel 's adversaries in Hamas in the south and Hezbollah in the north , and of course , they 've struck the Houthis , " former Defense Secretary Mark Esper told the Washington Examiner . <p> Israel and Hezbollah are holding up a tenuous ceasefire agreement that both sides have alleged the other has violated . Hezbollah and Hamas 's ranks have been much harder than the Houthis . <p> The Biden administration is pushing Netanyahu to get a ceasefire deal accomplished with both Hamas and Hezbollah , " and certainly with regard to Hezbollah , Bibi ignored President Biden and pressed the case , " Esper added . " We had the killing of Nasrallah . Then we had the pager attacks . It all happened fairly quickly , Israel invades , the next thing you know , Israel has taken out , by their account , most of Hezbollah 's rockets and missiles and launchers , and , of course , took out their leadership ranks . " <p> The recent fall of the Assad regime in Syria has also been a strategic win for Israel and the U.S. , though the actions of the country 's new leaders could determine just how much of a victory it actually was . Assad was an ally of Iran , Hezbollah , and Russia , and with him in power , Iran had a direct land route to get weapons to Hezbollah in Lebanon through Iraq and Syria . 
@@119058556 <p> Jenin , occupied West Bank -- Nahida al-Sabbagh has endured the battles in Jenin refugee camp , where she lives , since Saturday . The fighting between local Palestinian armed fighters from the Jenin Brigades and security forces continues near her home around the clock . <p> But it is the identity of the security forces clashing with those fighters that is most shocking to Nahida . They 're not Israeli . In fact , they 're Palestinian , and represent the Palestinian Authority ( PA ) . <p> " We never imagined that the security forces would treat the camp like this , " the 52-year-old Palestinian woman said . <p> The clashes around the al-Sabbagh family 's home in the camp 's al-Mahyoub neighbourhood are the result of an ongoing campaign launched by the PA 's security apparatus under the name " Protecting the Homeland " . The campaign has been justified as an effort to " pursue criminals " and lawbreakers and prevent the camp from becoming a battleground like Gaza , according to Anwar Rajab , the spokesperson for the PA security forces . <p> Advertisement <p> Rajab has also characterised the fighters in Jenin as pro-Iranian and " mercenaries " , and aiding the Israeli far-right 's attempts to weaken the PA . <p> The Jenin Brigades , the main target of the PA , has ties to the Iran-backed Palestinian Islamic Jihad , but also has members affiliated with other Palestinian groups . <p> " What they are doing is creating areas outside the control and sovereignty of the Palestinian Authority , " Rajab told Al Jazeera , referring to the Palestinian fighters being targeted in the PA 's operation . " This is evident in their rejection of any presence of the PA and its apparatus inside the camp , thus serving the agendas of external forces that were responsible for the destruction of Gaza , Lebanon , and Syria . " <p> The PA raid on the camp , which began on December 14 , followed a 10-day siege . During that period , security forces killed an unarmed 19-year-old civilian , Rabhi al-Shalabi , in the camp as he rode a motorcycle , a scene captured on camera that led to widespread outrage . Then , on the day the raid began on Saturday , a 13-year-old child , as well as a commander in the Jenin Brigades who was wanted by Israel , were also killed . <p> The PA took " full responsibility " for the killing of al-Shalabi , but no immediate action was announced to arrest the officers involved or refer them to the public prosecutor for investigation , further raising the anger on the streets . <p> The justifications for the operation have failed to convince the 24,000 Palestinian refugees living within the half a square kilometre ( 0.19sq miles ) that makes up the densely populated camp . These residents have endured more than a year of Israeli incursions and raids , and many see the campaign as an attempt to eliminate the Palestinian resistance , in line with the PA 's security coordination with Israel . <p> Advertisement <p> Although this is not the first such PA campaign against Jenin camp , it is the first during Israel 's war on Gaza and amid ongoing Israeli attacks on the camp , which has been raided more than 80 times over the past year , resulting in more than 220 deaths and thousands of injuries , according to the Palestinian Ministry of Health . <p> Fadi expressed his outrage to Al Jazeera at what he described had happened to him . The 42-year-old said the security forces stormed his building and forced nearby residents to leave their homes , detaining them in his apartment . <p> " They fired at me , terrifying my children , just because I was on the balcony . And they did n't stop there -- they forcibly entered my home , " Fadi said , recounting how his children and his neighbours ' children were terrified , and how he is wanted by the PA security forces after appearing in a video on social media speaking about his ordeal . <p> Fadi is adamant that despite the PA 's claims , the camp is fully supportive of the Jenin Brigades . <p> " Anyone who doubts the popular support for resistance in the camp should visit now and see the public rallying around it , " Fadi said . " No one here will give up the resistance . " <h> Palestinian Authority refuses to compromise <p> The PA has partial administrative control over the occupied West Bank -- which Jenin sits in the northern part of . However , Israel has had full military control over the Palestinian territory since 1967 . <p> Over the past few days , the Jenin camp has been under PA siege , with no movement in or out , along with electricity and water cuts . The medical situation is dire , with ambulances unable to enter or exit , despite the large number of injuries from ongoing clashes between the two sides . <p> Advertisement <p> Despite the difficult situation inside the camp and the intense fighting , security officials remain committed to continuing the operation . <p> PA Interior Minister Ziad Hab al-Reeh reiterated during a meeting at the Jenin governorate 's headquarters on Wednesday that the operation would continue until its objectives were achieved . <p> " We will pursue anyone who tries to tamper with our people 's resources and sabotage the Palestinian national project , " Hab al-Reeh said . <p> Some camp residents agree with the objectives of the campaign but reject the methods used by the security forces . <p> Hani Hijazi , 54 , who lives on al-Sikka Street in the western part of the camp , said he understands the need for the security forces to operate within the camp and address issues that have arisen , but not through the methods that have led to the deaths of innocent civilians . <p> Hijazi , like many others in the camp , fears that this could escalate into a larger confrontation between the two sides , potentially leading to a " civil war " . <p> " Both sides are responsible ; fighting is not the solution . Reconciliation is , " Hijazi said . <h> Justifications for operation ' untrue ' <p> Amid the rapidly escalating events in the camp , residents have questioned the timing of the PA 's operation . <p> The Jenin Brigades was formed in 2021 , and although the Islamic Jihad movement comprises the largest portion of it , all Palestinian factions are represented in its military wings , including the Al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigades , the military wing of Fatah -- the Palestinian faction that dominates the PA . <p> Advertisement <p> Moreover , Israel has repeatedly raided the camp , and the pursuit of armed fighters has not ceased . <p> Kifah al-Omari , 51 , a resident of Bab al-Saha in the centre of the camp , wondered to Al Jazeera why the PA would intervene . <p> Palestinians in Jenin camp have had to face days of fighting between the Palestinian Authority and the Jenin Brigades Muhammed Ateeq/Al Jazeera <p> Al-Omari sat outside her home with her family as she spoke , warming herself by a wood-burning stove due to the electricity blackout in the camp and the lack of heating in its homes . <p> " We , the ones living in the heart of this event , know very well that all the justifications provided by the PA are untrue , " al-Omari said . " This leaves us to speculate about the real reason for this campaign and its timing . " <p> Like many other Palestinians , al-Omari did not rule out that the cause might be linked to major political arrangements in the occupied West Bank and Gaza , preparing the PA to extend its control over Gaza in the event of any agreement to end the war on the enclave . <p> The Israeli government has repeatedly stressed that it does not trust the PA to effectively fight Palestinian resistance fighters , and so many Palestinians believe that operations such as the one in Jenin are an effort to prove that the PA can in fact root the fighters out . <p> Rajab , the security forces ' spokesperson , rejected accusations that the PA is working with Israel against resistance fighters , saying the PA had " provided protection for 200 Palestinians who were targeted for liquidation and immediate assassination by Israel " . <p> Advertisement <p> " It is a sovereign decision from the highest level within the PA to work with all our efforts , means , and methods to prevent another catastrophe and disaster in the West Bank , as happened in the Gaza Strip , " he added , in a further attempt to justify the raid . <p> Yet al-Omari claimed that offers from locals in the camp have been made to the PA to resolve the situation without bloodshed , but that these had been refused . <p> Instead , al-Omari said , the PA had demanded that " wanted individuals surrender themselves and their weapons " . <p> " This demand was not accompanied by any guarantees or offers to protect them or the camp from Israeli occupation forces , which is why the fighters and camp residents rejected it , " al-Omari added . 
@@119064652 <p> Southern Gaza Strip -- In a rare moment of access to the war-ravaged Palestinian territory , CBS News visited a critical aid distribution center on Wednesday just inside the Gaza Strip , near the Karem Shalom border crossing from Israel . The humanitarian crisis in Gaza after more than a year of the Israel-Hamas war remains dire . <p> Israeli officials say about 200 trucks cross from Israel into Gaza via the Kerem Shalom checkpoint every day , on average , carrying desperately needed supplies for Palestinian civilians caught in the crossfire of the ongoing conflict . <p> But a pressing question persists : Is the aid reaching those who need it most ? <p> At the distribution center , truck drivers and aid workers told CBS News about the struggles they face , including the looting of humanitarian goods , which they said remained a significant problem in Gaza . The chaos and lawlessness in the region often prevents supplies from reaching the intended recipients . <p> " The aid is not getting through because of the gangs intercepting it on the road , " says Mohammed Shehibar , a Palestinian logistics coordinator from Al-Rimal , a neighborhood in Gaza City , who spoke with us as he oversaw workers loading forklifts full of fresh fruit . <p> He said that of 100 trucks that went out from this site , " only 70 or 60 reached their destinations . " The rest , he said , were looted . <p> " The only guarantee to get aid delivered safely is that there would be some stability in Gaza , " he said . " They the gangs take up positions near the border ... near the Israeli army ... and they do n't face any problems . " <p> International aid agencies have also complained that not enough aid is entering the Gaza Strip . <p> Last Sunday on CBS News ' " Face The Nation with Margaret Brennan , " Cindy McCain , the head of the World Food Program , said her organization had only been able to get two aid trucks through the crossing in the month of November . <p> " That 's not true , " said Col. Abdullah Halabi , the head of Israel 's Coordination and Liaison Administration for Gaza . " The humanitarian community just in the last two weeks , with our development of facilities around Gaza , like on other crossings , they managed to move an average of 200 trucks to the central and to the south of Gaza . " <p> Israeli officials insist that ample aid is flowing into Gaza . They emphasize the difficulties of delivering supplies in an active war zone and call for greater assistance from the international community to ensure safe passage and effective distribution within the decimated enclave . <p> Israel launched its military offensive in Gaza following Hamas ' brutal attack on Oct. 7 , 2023 , which killed some 1,200 people . More than 100 hostages seized by Hamas are still being held . Since the start of the war in Gaza , at least 44,580 Palestinians have been killed , according to the Hamas-run Health Ministry , and most of its residents have been internally displaced . <p> Danger was palpable during our visit , with the sound of shelling echoing nearby . Aid truck drivers risk their lives to navigate the perilous conditions created by shattered infrastructure and security threats inside Gaza , highlighting the immense challenges faced by both aid agencies and Gazan civilians . <p> There has been cautious hope recently , however , as reports suggest ongoing negotiations for a hostage release deal could lead to a temporary ceasefire , and a surge of humanitarian aid into Gaza . <p> If such a deal does materialize , distribution centers like the one on the Gaza side of the Kerem Shalom crossing may soon be overwhelmed with additional supplies , offering a lifeline to those in desperate need . 
@@119079450 <h> Can the Constitution Curb Trump 's " Frightening " Payback Plans ? <p> Ahead of a second Trump term , former FBI counterterrorism agent Ali Soufan speaks to Vanity Fair about his fears the Middle East could shift " further towards chaos " -- and his hopes that the president-elect 's talk of retribution will be just that . " I think I trust the institutions to manage this storm , " he says . <p> Donald Trump exits after speaking at the Republican Jewish Coalition Annual Leadership Meeting on October 28 , 2023 in Vegas , Nevada , where he offered support to Israel and lambasted President Joe Biden 's policies in the Middle East.By Ronda **25;1717;TOOLONG Images . <p> Unfortunately , Ali Soufan was right . One year ago , shortly after the October 7 Hamas attack on Israel and the start of Israel 's military response , Soufan told me that the events had " ushered in a new era of chaos to the region . " The fallout has seen the displacement of millions of Gazans , the killing of Hamas leader Yahya Sinwar , a ceasefire agreement in Lebanon , and the overthrow of former Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad . <p> Yet for all the death and destruction , much is still unsettled -- and the imminent return of Donald Trump to the White House adds another wildcard . Soufan has worked in the region for decades . As an FBI agent , he came closer than anyone else to heading off the 9/11 attacks . Now , Soufan leads his own security consulting agency , where he facilitates delicate hostage negotiations abroad . <p> In between flights to the Middle East , Soufan spoke with Vanity Fair about everything from the nature of Syria 's victorious rebel group ( " They continue to be a terrorist organization until they prove otherwise " ) , to how much power Marco Rubio may possess as Trump 's secretary of state ( " I believe everything is going to be run directly by the White House " ) , to the broader conflicts escalating all throughout the Middle East . " There 's a lot of things happening now , " Soufan says , in a major understatement . " The situation in the region is really scary . " <p> Vanity Fair : No one could have predicted exactly how things would unfold during the past year . But you 're an expert in the region . Have any of the ramifications surprised even you ? <p> Ali Soufan : We always knew that something big was going to happen in Syria after October 7 and after the weakening of Iran 's key proxy , Hezbollah , in Lebanon . Turkey has moved swiftly to fill the vacuum left by Tehran and to expand its influence . But I do n't think even the Turks believed that the Assad regime would collapse this fast . <p> The Israeli hostages remain an enormous issue . On Monday president-elect Donald Trump threatened Hamas , saying " all hell will break out " if the hostages are not released by January 20 . Is that helpful , or is he posturing in case they are released sooner , so Trump can claim credit for scaring them into a deal ? <p> I think that it 's only talk , and I think it 's coming from the fact that the situation might be solved before he takes office . The head of the CIA went to Qatar on Wednesday . What Trump says does not impact much what is going on in the negotiations . If you 're Hamas , what else can happen ? The situation in Gaza is a total mess . They 're already living in the deepest level of hell . I have a positive feeling about the outcome of the negotiations this time . <p> Yet even if that part of the troubles is resolved , Trump will be dealing with a deeply volatile region . You have worked in counterterrorism for a long time . Where are the greatest risks from the new instability ? <p> I think Turkey will do some kind of military operation against the Kurds in northern Syria , because they consider the Syrian Democratic Forces , which are led by the Kurds , to be a terrorist organization on the Turkish border . If Turkey 's operation is successful , what 's going to happen to the hundreds of ISIS fighters that are in Kurdish custody ? It could be similar to what happened in Iraq , when ISIS declared an Islamic state . The situation would be very dangerous not only for Syria , but also for Turkey and the international community , including the United States . <p> Trump consistently talks like an isolationist , about taking care of America and leaving other countries alone to sort themselves out . <p> We wanted to ignore Afghanistan for the longest time . Well , Afghanistan did not ignore us . I remember what happened on 9/11 . The situation in Syria is a perfect example of how dangerous the world is and how important American engagement is , not to impact the competing groups and nation-states , but to protect the homeland . <p> Look , Hezbollah did n't go away . Hamas did n't go away . Iran and its axis , yes , they are weakened , but we do n't know what 's going to happen . The situation in the region might even go further towards chaos with the possibility of the Israelis hitting nuclear sites in Iran , this time because they have support in the Trump administration to do so . <p> Given the complexity of the possible terrorist threats , how much confidence do you have in Tulsi Gabbard as director of national intelligence ? <p> I would like to hear her positions on these things in confirmation hearings . Does she have a grasp on how dangerous the world is , or do Trump and his advisers really believe , ' Let 's get out , this is not our fight . Whatever happens happens over there ' ? We 've done that before , and it did n't work out . <p> Saudi Arabia is , of course , also an enormously important player in the region . Given the kingdom 's relationships with Trump and with Jared Kushner , are the Saudis especially happy that he is returning to the White House ? <p> I think , frankly , most of the people in the region are happy to see Trump back in power , not only the Saudis . Because they believe that they understand Trump and Trump understands them . With Trump , you do n't have a lot of things that they think are very hypocritical coming from the US . I 'll give you an example . When Jamal Khashoggi was killed , Trump said , ' Look , we need cheap oil , they buy our weapons , people die , everybody kills people . Who cares ? ' That is a horrible thing to say , but he was blunt and honest about it . When Biden was running for office , he said , ' We ca n't be bought . Saudi Arabia will be held accountable . ' But when we had gas at $5 a gallon , he went and fist-bumped Mohammed bin Salman . <p> Closer to home -- how many years were you an FBI agent ? <p> About 10 . <p> The bureau has certainly been under fire before . But does it sadden you to see the Republicans turn it into such a political target ? <p> Sure . Some of these accusations against the FBI are not fair and some of them are fair . Every now and then it 's good to think outside the box and try to reenergize the institution and get rid of the decades and decades of bureaucratic issues that hinder it from being the premier law enforcement entity in the world . <p> Yeah , but Trump is n't talking about improved efficiency . He 's talking about retribution against political enemies . Is n't that troubling ? <p> If that happens , absolutely . We have laws and a constitution to prevent this from happening . But , yeah , it is frightening . I hope that day does not come . I think I trust the institutions to manage this storm . <p> His choice for FBI director , Kash Patel , has published an enemies list . <p> There 's two things about Kash Patel . There 's the partisan thing . This is a situation on both sides of the aisle : You see people saying sometimes outrageous stuff because this is the nature of our politics today , and this is how you raise money , this is how you become popular . But I think Kash worked very closely with the FBI before , when he was in DOJ . He is not a total outsider coming in . And I hope , like President Trump , he realizes the mission . If they do , the institutions will support them . If not , it 's going to be chaotic like the four years when President Trump was in office . <h> Chris Smith <h> Contributing Editor <p> Chris Smith is a contributing editor at Vanity Fair . He is the best-selling author of The Daily Show ( the Book ) and Till the End ( with CC Sabathia ) . Smith joined VF after covering politics , entertainment , sports , and crime for New York magazine . Follow him on Twitter . <p> Twenty-five years after starring in The End of the Affair , the leads of The Room Next Door and Conclave open up about their friendship , the joy they take in acting , and why Fiennes spent his post-Conclave months " hair growing and getting ripped . " <p> When he was 42 , Cormac McCarthy fell in love with a 16-year-old girl he met by a motel pool . Augusta Britt would go on to become one of the most significant -- and secret -- inspirations in literary history , giving life to many of McCarthy 's most iconic characters across his celebrated novels and Hollywood films . For 47 years , Britt closely guarded her identity and her story . Until now . <p> Donald Trump 's nominee for secretary of defense is a conservative culture warrior , a central-casting alpha male who believes in guns , God , and the primacy of the family unit . The story of his first marriage , which sources say met a contentious end after he admitted to multiple infidelities , holds a key place in Hegseth 's ambition-fueled rise . 
@@119099649 <p> " Our firsthand observations of the medical and humanitarian catastrophe inflicted on Gaza are consistent with the descriptions provided by an increasing number of legal experts and organizations concluding that genocide is taking place in Gaza , " the aid group , also known as Medecins Sans Frontieres ( MSF ) , said in the report published Thursday . <p> " In the north of the Strip in particular , the recent military offensive is a clear illustration of the brutal war the Israeli forces are waging on Gaza , and we are witnessing clear signs of ethnic cleansing as Palestinian life is being wiped off the area , " it said . <p> " While we do n't have legal authority to establish intentionality , the signs of ethnic cleansing and the ongoing devastation -- including mass killings , severe physical and mental health injuries , forced displacement , and impossible conditions of life for Palestinians under siege and bombardment -- are undeniable , " it added . <p> NBC News has asked the Israel Defense forces for comment on the report . It has strongly rejected accusations of genocide and ethnic cleansing in the past , while insisting that it does everything possible to limit the loss of human life . <p> Human Rights Watch , in a separate report also released Thursday , accused Israeli authorities of intentionally depriving Palestinians in Gaza of access to safe water for drinking and sanitation . <p> " Water is essential for human life , yet for over a year the Israeli government has deliberately denied Palestinians in Gaza the bare minimum they need to survive , " Tirana Hassan , the group 's executive director , said in a statement released alongside the report , " Extermination and Acts of Genocide : Israel Deliberately Depriving Palestinians in Gaza of Water . " <p> " This is n't just negligence ; it is a calculated policy of deprivation that has led to the deaths of thousands , " she added . <p> An IDF spokesperson said that it " firmly rejects allegations asserting it has deliberately targeted water infrastructure in the Gaza Strip , " adding that its strikes in Gaza are carried out in accordance with international law and with " all feasible efforts ... taken to mitigate harm to civilians . " <p> The spokesperson added that the military was working to reactivate a desalination plant in Gaza 's southern city of Khan Younis , among other projects that include repairing damaged pipes . <p> But the reports add to a chorus of criticism from aid and rights groups . Amnesty International became the first major nonprofit group to accuse Israel of acts of genocide in the Gaza Strip in a report this month , echoing similar claims from numerous United Nations agencies . <p> At the time , an IDF spokesperson called Amnesty 's claims " entirely baseless . " <p> A Palestinian boy looks out from the aftermath of an Israeli strike in Gaza City.Dawoud Abo Alkas / Anadolu via Getty Images <p> While war crimes such as genocide are legal designations that would normally be made by a judge , the charities ' accusations will do little to dispel the charges already brought against the government of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . <p> The International Criminal Court issued an arrest warrant against Netanyahu for crimes against humanity , along with Yoav Gallant , his former defense minister , as well as Hamas military chief Mohammed Deif . Israel said it killed Deif , the head of the Qassam Brigades , in August . <p> Israel responded furiously to the warrants , with Netanyahu 's office branding them " antisemitic , " rejecting the charges as " absurd and false . " Oren Marmorstein , a spokesperson for Israel 's Foreign Affairs Ministry , told NBC News on Sunday that Israel had filed an appeal of the ICC warrants . <p> The war in Gaza has raged for 14 months and , according to local officials , more than 45,000 people have been killed in Israel 's military campaign there . Israeli forces entered Gaza in response to the Oct. 7 , 2023 , terrorist attack , in which around 1,200 people Israelis were killed and around 250 people taken hostage , according to Israeli tallies . <p> Around 100 hostages are still being held by Hamas and other militant groups , although a third are thought to be dead . <p> While Israel has long justified the death toll and high levels of destruction in Gaza in the context of its war against the Iran-backed militia , there appears to be a limited response from Hamas in large parts of Gaza even as its campaign continues , according to Andreas Krieg , a senior lecturer at King 's College London 's school of security studies . <p> Injured civilians arrive at hospital in Gaza City after an Israeli airstrike on the Dar al-Arqam and Shaaban al-Rayes schools sheltering displaced people on Thursday.Mahmoud Isleem / Anadolu via Getty Images <p> " Certainly in part of the Gaza Strip in the north , I would concur with the observation that the intent there is no longer to fight Hamas because there is n't much resistance left anyway , but it 's the intent of ethnic cleansing and depriving the local population of their livelihood , which is water , electricity , which then has an effect of intentionally killing people , " Krieg said . <p> The Israeli military has insisted that it does everything possible to limit the loss of human life . But many of its actions in Gaza would be " permissible , acceptable under any circumstance within a Western military , " Krieg told NBC News Friday , adding that it was important to make the legal distinction between genocide and acts of genocide . <p> " We always think about genocide being some sort of coherent strategy , like in Rwanda , for example , where the government was clearly giving permission to people to kill a particular group of people , and then it 's orchestrated more or less with central supervision , " he said . " That 's obviously not the case here , but the fact is that the IDF has been given an extremely permissive environment . " 
@@119101348 <p> At Cog , our goal is to add perspective and depth to timely news stories and ideas , while remaining deeply personal . We want to be relevant but not reactive ; inspiring but not cloying ; provocative , but never mean . <p> Advertisement <p> We write this most years , but holy smokes : what a year ! When we sat down to pull this list together , we were overwhelmed -- spent hours talking through all the stand-outs . Ultimately , we decided to put 2024 's best stories into categories : personal essays , political commentary , multi-platform work ( we 've been experimenting with more audio and video storytelling ) and newsletter essays , which became a much bigger part of our wheelhouse this year . <p> Thank you for giving us the gift of your attention . To 2025 we go . <p> -- Cloe Axelson , Kate Neale Cooper , Sara Shukla <p> PERSONAL ESSAY <p> Personal essays are Cog 's bread and butter . They 're what help us find the beating heart of the news . Whether it 's a reflection on mass transit , the casually cruel chaos of the stars or a book club that never talks about books , these essays helped us make meaning of some of life 's universal experiences . <p> Maybe in this age of increased polarization and decreased civic participation , an age of increased road deaths and social isolation , taking mass transit is a positive way we can all participate in public life , writes Christina Ganim . ( January 17 ) <p> I did not come from a fast car family , but I came of age around fast car boys who drag raced on quarter-mile stretches of highway , writes Susan Donovan Bernhard . Tracy Chapman tapped into something fragile and raw and aching . ( February 8 ) <p> " I did not come from a fast car family , " writes Susan Donovan Bernhard , " but I came of age around fast car boys who drag raced on quarter-mile stretches of highway . " One of those fast car boys shared this photo of his cousin in an embrace in front of his 1975 Duster . ( Courtesy Susan Donovan Bernhard ) <p> Seven years ago , Lisa Mullins and her partner , Ken , made a reservation at a motel in Lancaster , New Hampshire to see this year 's total eclipse . Astronomical predictions of light and dark are unshakably precise , she writes . Life on Earth is less so . ( April 5 ) <p> Andrea Skinner , the youngest daughter of Alice Munro , shared an essay this week about being sexually abused by her stepfather . Speaking up does n't come without pain and loss and years of work to recover from the violence she suffered and from her mother 's horrifying betrayal , writes Janet Chwalibog . What it does come with is courage . ( July 12 ) <p> Predictions about dark and light will be unshakably precise . We knew all that seven years ago . What this heavenly event reminds me , is that we can only plan around the edges and prepare and pack and anticipate -- and hope . <p> In the empty nest articles I read last summer , there was a lot of advice about relationships with other people , writes Meaghan Shields . But I had no idea that becoming an empty nester would improve my relationship with myself . ( August 23 ) <p> The first few meetings of Laura McTaggart 's book club involved minimal scholarly discussion and no one complained . We must be doing something right because more than a decade later , the same six of us still gather regularly to discuss everything except the chosen book . ( September 13 ) <p> The author 's sons on a visit to Paraguay in 2011 . ( Courtesy Marjie Alonso ) <p> Rumors of stolen children adopted by unsuspecting parents circulated in international adoption circles for decades . And now a recent report confirms they 're true . Nearly 30 years ago , Marjie Alonso adopted two boys from Paraguay . I need to take a hard look at the families I dismantled to build my own . ( September 26 ) <p> POLITICAL COMMENTARY <p> Last January , we knew politics would loom large in our mix of 2024 stories . Between the war in Gaza ( and accompanying turmoil on college campuses ) , the first ever convictions ( 34 at last count ) of an American president , the on-going rollback of reproductive rights , the return of a Kennedy , an assassination attempt and a last-minute candidate switch atop the Democratic ticket , we raced to keep up with the body politic . Here are our favorite political pieces from the year . <p> The author on the cover of the November 1982 issue of Life magazine . ( Courtesy Elizabeth Carr ) <p> Much of the voting public is disturbingly unaware of President Biden 's climate record and the assault that the Heritage Foundation 's Project 2025 would marshal against it , writes Frederick Hewett . But in a close election that may hinge on a few votes in a few states , they should be . ( March 27 ) <p> Daniel Osborn was raised in an interfaith home , and when he became a father , he wanted to instill in his son an affinity for cultural exchange . He built reminders of Jewish and Arabic values into their daily routines . ( April 1 ) <p> In this ruling , the Supreme Court 's conservative majority -- which regularly crows about its fealty to the original intent of the U.S. Constitution -- have ignored the explicit counsel of the Founders , writes Eileen McNamara . It is the dissenting opinion that relies on their guidance . ( July 1 ) <p> Opposites certainly simplify things . But I refuse to believe that opposites are the only truth , or that they offer any kind of healing balm . <p> Nothing is permanent . Nothing lasts forever , not people , not wars , not governments , not nations , writes Leah Hager Cohen , in the wake of Joe Biden 's decision to end his re-election bid . Recognizing impermanence means understanding that everything is in motion , that the same force that enables loss enables growth . ( July 22 ) <p> Miguel and Kelly Cervantes have lost two children -- one at age 3 to a neurodegenerative condition , one in utero , at 21 weeks . I made the same heart-wrenching decision for both children , Kelly Cervantes writes . Yet one is legal in all 50 states and the other is n't . ( October 22 ) <p> In Jan Donley 's class at Berklee , her students study literature that centers on loss . Loss can make us sad , but it can also help us heal , Donley writes . In the wake of the 2024 presidential election , she 's been thinking about how loss can be a connecting force . ( November 15 ) <p> MULTI-PLATFORM <p> Cognoscenti is more than a page on a website . In 2024 , we continued to experiment with distributing our work across different channels . That included hosting events , producing work for the radio and continuing to experiment with video . Here 's some of our favorite multi-platform work from 2024 . <p> I thought getting in freezing cold water would be miserable and hard , and it was . But after a while , it became a near-daily exercise in redefining myself , writes Libby DeLana . When I got in the water , I could see myself clearly . ( February 9 ) <p> Sally Milliken , Claire Smith and Cognoscenti contributor Libby DeLana , far right , make their way out of the icy water at Stiles Pond in Boxford , Mass . ( Robin Lubbock/WBUR ) <p> Barbara Moran , 53 , has run five marathons . She gave up running 20 years ago , when arthritis began eating away at her knees . But what if she could run one more ? When Barb started training for Boston , she thought she was trying to hold onto her younger self . Instead , she grew . ( April 12 ) <p> Loving a place is not so dissimilar from loving a person . When we love somebody , we love the whole of them : with all their little quirks and beauties and annoyances . Cognoscenti welcomed chef and restaurateur Ana Sortun , Dr. Jim O'Connell , of Boston Health Care for the Homeless , author Anita Diamant and Catherine Morris , the founder of BAMS Fest , for an evening of readings , performances and conversation . ( May 30 ) <p> In September , Boston Mayor Michelle Wu performed George Gershwin 's " Rhapsody in Blue " at Symphony Hall with the Boston Pops . Cognoscenti spoke to her about her lifelong love of the piano and how it informs her role as a public servant . ( October 11 ) <p> Cog 's weekly newsletter arrives in inboxes on Sunday mornings . It always includes an original essay by one of Cog 's editors , a rundown of the stories we published during the previous week and links to what we 're reading . Readers tell us they read it over coffee or on their phones , still snuggled under the covers . In 2024 , we started publishing the newsletter essays to our website . Here are some of our favorites , including a guest essay from Steve Almond and a Q&amp;A about Dungeons &amp; Dragons , which turned 50 in 2024 . The newsletter is our ongoing conversation with our readers . We 'd love you to subscribe if you have n't already -- and tell a friend about it , too . <p> Any stories that are good originate from the deepest precincts of our inner lives , from our obsessions and fears and desires , writes Steve Almond , in this guest essay for Cog 's newsletter . We write about what we ca n't get rid of by any other means . ( April 9 ) <p> Dr. Jim O'Connell , of the Boston Health Care for the Homeless Program , is a receptacle for his patients ' tales , writes Cloe Axelson . Retelling them is perhaps a way to make some sense of all the difficulty and heartache -- or at least to make it small enough to hold , and keep moving . ( May 26 ) <p> This week , Robert Putnam 's ideas and an essay about book clubs and the presidential debate have been sloshing around in my brain , an odd stew . It made me want to re-examine my own thinking about being a " joiner , " writes Cloe Axelson . ( September 15 ) <p> The pendant Kate Neale Cooper 's mother gave her when her grandfather died was very special to her , but she did n't wear it that often . " I 'm not really a jewelry person , " she writes . All that changed a decade later . ( September 29 ) <p> A group of players concentrate on a game of Dungeons &amp; Dragons in 1985 . ( Bruce Milton Miller/Fairfax Media via Getty Images ) <p> You could n't pay me to watch a scary movie , writes Sara Shukla , but when my 12-year-old became obsessed with them last year , I started to see how sometimes it 's about more than the jump scares . ( October 27 ) <p> There is a rush to know and understand all of this . I do n't have many answers at the moment , but I 'm also not convinced it 's a good idea to try to settle them so quickly , writes Cloe Axelson . ( November 8 ) 
@@119102643 <h> Dangerous , unneeded use of $1.8 trillion <p> Posted December 20 , 2024 4:00 am <p> Not one of the other 194 countries poses the slightest threat to the U.S. homeland . Yet our nation foolishly provokes confrontation with Russia and China , the first and third most nuclear armed states . <p> With no enemies lurking near our borders , the U.S. plans to spend $1.8 trillion next year to promote not defense , but U.S. adventurism abroad . <p> 750 bases in 80 countries overseas billeting 160,000 soldiers does not come cheap . Additionally , the U.S. has squandered upwards of $200 billion to destroy Ukraine in our proxy war against Russia , and obliterate Gaza by our Middle East aircraft carrier Israel . <p> But do n't forget nuclear weapons programs , Homeland Security , cost to treat vets from America 's forever wars and miscellaneous foreign adventures . These add another $796.8 billion , making a national security grand total for 2025 a staggering $1,776,800,000 . A far distant second in defense spending is China at less than a quarter trillion . <p> How can this be in the hyped " greatest democracy on Earth " ? Simple . The administration , Congress , presidential candidates , the media offer not one word of discussion , much less protest about this monstrous squandering of treasure to get millions killed , injured , starved , sick and homeless in countries America has no business meddling in . <p> Of course , with the U.S. war party crossing Russian red lines like it 's in a demolition derby , nuclear war becomes more likely than at any time since the Cuban Missile Crisis 62 years ago . If that happens , any important discussion of our $1.8 trillion national security budget will be moot . <p> Guidelines : Keep it civil and on topic ; no profanity , vulgarity , slurs or personal attacks . People who harass others or joke about tragedies will be blocked . If a comment violates these standards or our terms of service , click the " flag " link in the lower-right corner of the comment box . To find our more , read our FAQ. 
@@119108959 <h> Why is Christian Science in our name ? <p> Our name is about honesty . The Monitor is owned by The Christian Science Church , and we 've always been transparent about that . <p> The Church publishes the Monitor because it sees good journalism as vital to progress in the world . Since 1908 , we 've aimed " to injure no man , but to bless all mankind , " as our founder , Mary Baker Eddy , put it . <p> Here , you 'll find award-winning journalism not driven by commercial influences -- a news organization that takes seriously its mission to uplift the world by seeking solutions and finding reasons for credible hope . <p> As this is our last Daily before Christmas , we thought we would make it something of a Christmas gift . We start with a cover story from the Weekly magazine in which staffers speak of memorable presents . A Huffy BMX bike ; the wonders of the Sears Roebuck catalog ; a delightful , fuzzy Mesozoic poet named Gronk . I might have laughed a few times , even felt a tear . In other words , Merry Christmas . <p> The Christian Science Monitor is an international news organization offering calm , thoughtful , award-winning coverage for independent thinkers . We tackle difficult conversations and divisive issues -- we do n't shy away from hard problems . But you 'll find in each Monitor news story qualities that can lead to solutions and unite us -- qualities such as respect , resilience , hope , and fairness . <p> At the abandoned Iranian Embassy in Damascus , Syria , Iran 's fall from powerhouse to powerless is most evident . For years , the embassy , ringed with concrete blocks , fences , and an array of security cameras , served as the cockpit of Tehran 's " Axis of Resistance . " <p> The regional strategy built and sustained allied militias from Lebanon to Yemen to counter Israeli and American influence and serve as Iran 's first line of defense . <h> Why We Wrote This <p> First Hamas in Gaza , then Hezbollah in Lebanon , now the Assad regime in Syria . With key components of Iran 's " Axis of Resistance " diminished or defeated , what is left of Tehran 's expensive strategy for regional dominance ? <p> " We hate them a lot , to the first degree , " says a rebel fighter guarding the embassy . " They were here to kill the Syrian people , " he says . " There is no way of reconciliation with Iran . " <p> In Tehran , Iranians are still absorbing that the deterrent power of the axis " has been substantially reduced , " says Nasser Hadian , a professor of political science at Tehran University , now retired . " There is a sense of shock and confusion in Iran , and discussion of how and why Syria 's fall happened , " he says . " There is not yet a clear vision of what we should do now . " <p> At the abandoned Iranian Embassy in Damascus , Iran 's fall here from powerhouse to powerless is most evident . <p> For years , the embassy , ringed with rows of concrete blocks , sharp-tined fences , and an array of security cameras , served as the cockpit of Tehran 's " Axis of Resistance . " <p> The regional strategy built and sustained allied militias from Lebanon to Yemen to counter Israeli and American influence in the region and serve as Iran 's own first line of defense . <h> Why We Wrote This <p> First Hamas in Gaza , then Hezbollah in Lebanon , now the Assad regime in Syria . With key components of Iran 's " Axis of Resistance " diminished or defeated , what is left of Tehran 's expensive strategy for regional dominance ? <p> Owing to the work done in this building -- with its royal blue , gold , and teal tiles designed to resemble the finest ancient mosques in Iran -- Tehran could claim regional superpower status . <p> But when Syrian rebels mounted a lightning 11-day offensive this month to topple the regime of Bashar al-Assad , neither Iran nor its powerful ally Russia could prevent the collapse . <p> Today a handful of rebel fighters from the Islamist Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) militia stand guard at the embassy , where the bulletproof glass has been tested by rifle rounds . <p> Warding off the evening cold with a fire , the guards give voice to widespread anti-Iran sentiment in Syria , as more and more crimes of the regime -- for so long propped up by Iran -- are revealed each day . <p> Scott Peterson/Getty Images/The Christian Science Monitor <p> Passport photos sit on a table at Syria 's Palestine Branch prison in Damascus , Dec. 17 , 2024 . The prison , with its piles of interrogation documents and its dank collection of cells , offers evidence of the systematic cruelty of the toppled Iran-backed Assad regime . <p> " We hate them a lot , to the first degree . ... They made us suffer a lot , " says one guard , wearing a black scarf and a look of confidence born of military victory . <p> " They were here to kill the Syrian people , " he says , noting Iran 's key role in crushing a popular anti-Assad uprising that began in 2011 , and eventually morphed into a civil war with foreign powers backing disparate armed groups . <p> " They were strong when Assad was here . The minute Assad was out , they were no longer strong , " says the HTS fighter , who did not give his name . " No , never . There is no way of reconciliation with Iran . " <h> An axis in decline <p> The fall of the Assad dynasty after more than half a century in power is the latest major blow to Iran and its alliance . <p> Across the region , Iran is reeling from sweeping changes triggered by axis member Hamas ' surprise Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack on Israel , and Israel 's ongoing response , which has gravely weakened Hamas and leveled the Gaza Strip . <p> In Lebanon , thousands of Israeli airstrikes have wiped out the leadership of Hezbollah , the crown jewel of the axis , and severely damaged the Shiite militia 's military capacity . Syria was the indispensable node through which Iran supplied Hezbollah with missiles , weaponry , and cash . For now , that path is closed , Hezbollah acknowledges . <p> Gone are the days when Iranian hard-liners and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu alike would speak of Tehran controlling decisions in four other regional capitals : Sanaa , Baghdad , Damascus , and Beirut . <p> In Iran , the strongest public criticism has come from hard-liners who had carried out the axis strategy , which included recruiting Shiite militiamen from Afghanistan and Pakistan to fight in Syria 's civil war , and bolstering Shiite militias in Iraq and Yemen . <p> " Assad 's departure was definitely a blow to the resistance front , and this is an undeniable reality , " a former Revolutionary Guard intelligence chief , Hossein Taeb , said Tuesday . " The stakes have gone higher and resistance must seek new avenues . " <p> In a speech Tuesday , Iran 's supreme leader , Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , said the " assumption " by the United States and Israel " that resistance has come to an end is erroneous . " <h> " It was very dangerous for boys " <p> In Syria , foreign fighters marshaled by Iran -- especially when that battle took on the Islamic State in the mid-2010s -- were often portrayed as " defenders of the shrine , " an ornate gold-domed mosque complex south of Damascus that Shiites believe houses the remains of Sayyida Zaynab , granddaughter of the Prophet Muhammad . <p> But residents of Sayyida Zaynab -- a poor district -- say Hezbollah forced Sunnis as well as Shiites to fight with the axis . <p> " Hezbollah took many boys in this area , and took them to any front line in Syria . ... It was very dangerous for boys , " says Ahmad al-Fayad . Two of his sons were arrested by the regime during a sweep in 2013 , charged as " terrorists , " and disappeared , he says . <p> Scott Peterson/Getty Images/The Christian Science Monitor <p> Shiite Muslims worship at the Sayyida Zaynab Mosque , which they believe holds the remains of the granddaughter of the Prophet Muhammad , in southern Damascus , Syria , Dec. 14 , 2024 . Iran had used the presence of such an important Shiite shrine to partially justify its military presence in Syria . <p> He was not surprised to hear that a torn portrait of Mr. Khamenei was stomped on at a pro-HTS celebration down the road , which attracted scores of local Shiites . <p> " We are very happy about it , " says Mr. Fayad . " As a result of the previous injustice carried out by the Iran-backed militias , you can watch Khamenei 's pictures being torn . " <p> That injustice continues , as far as residents are concerned , in the form of at least one weapons depot , hidden in a residential compound in Sayyida Zaynab that locals say was once an Iran-Hezbollah base . <p> Axis fighters removed most traces of their affiliation , leaving piles of finely shredded documents and a single reference sheet listing all Iran-related axis locations in the Damascus area . <p> " We are afraid of this . ... It 's very dangerous for our people , " says one local man , as the sound of Israeli aircraft overhead blends with the laughter of children playing nearby , as if at a school . Israel has mounted 500 airstrikes in Syria to prevent the fallen regime 's military capability from being used by the new rebel rulers . <p> Scott Peterson/Getty Images/The Christian Science Monitor <p> Stockpiles of ammunition , mortars , and rockets fill several rooms on a base abandoned by Iranian and Hezbollah forces in the Sayyida Zaynab neighborhood of Damascus , Dec. 14 , 2024 . With Israel targeting Syrian arms depots , local residents say they fear for their safety . <h> Downturn <p> Iran 's fortunes in Syria began to wane last April , when Israel struck a building adjacent to the Iranian Embassy , killing many of the Iranian Revolutionary Guard 's senior commanders in Syria . That strike prompted an unprecedented missile and drone attack on Israel from Iranian soil . <p> Damascus residents near the site of the Israeli strike say cars with Lebanese license plates removed all documents and other sensitive materials , and the rubble of the entire five-story building was gone within three days . <p> " We do n't want them in our neighborhood -- they are not welcome at all , " says one man called Hashem , who witnessed the strike . <p> The Iranians " are very strong ; we were afraid of them , " says Abed , a guard at a nearby building . <h> Help fund Monitor journalism for $11/ month <p> Monitor journalism changes lives because we open that too-small box that most people think they live in . We believe news can and should expand a sense of identity and possibility beyond narrow conventional expectations . <h> Digital subscription includes : <p> What is the Monitor difference ? Tackling the tough headlines -- with humanity . Listening to sources -- with respect . Seeing the story that others are missing by reporting what so often gets overlooked : the values that connect us . That 's Monitor reporting -- news that changes how you see the world . <p> About a year ago , I happened upon this statement about the Monitor in the Harvard Business Review -- under the charming heading of " do things that do n't interest you " : <p> " Many things that end up " being meaningful , writes social scientist Joseph Grenny , " have come from conference workshops , articles , or online videos that began as a chore and ended with an insight . My work in Kenya , for example , was heavily influenced by a Christian Science Monitor article I had forced myself to read 10 years earlier . Sometimes , we call things ' boring ' simply because they lie outside the box we are currently in . " <p> If you were to come up with a punchline to a joke about the Monitor , that would probably be it . We 're seen as being global , fair , insightful , and perhaps a bit too earnest . We 're the bran muffin of journalism . <p> But you know what ? We change lives . And I 'm going to argue that we change lives precisely because we force open that too-small box that most human beings think they live in . <p> The Monitor is a peculiar little publication that 's hard for the world to figure out . We 're run by a church , but we 're not only for church members and we 're not about converting people . We 're known as being fair even as the world becomes as polarized as at any time since the newspaper 's founding in 1908 . <p> We have a mission beyond circulation , we want to bridge divides . We 're about kicking down the door of thought everywhere and saying , " You are bigger and more capable than you realize . And we can prove it . " <p> If you 're looking for bran muffin journalism , you can subscribe to the Monitor for $15 . You 'll get the Monitor Weekly magazine , the Monitor Daily email , and unlimited access to CSMonitor.com. 
@@119112440 <h> " We 're not going to leave them in power in Gaza , 30 miles from Tel Aviv . It 's not going to happen , " he said amid calls by many to accept a ceasefire-hostage release deal in the Palestinian enclave . <p> Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said that he would not " agree to end the war before we remove Hamas " in an interview with Wall Street Journal editorial writer Elliot Kaufman , which was later published in the US newspaper on Friday . <p> " We 're not going to leave them in power in Gaza , 30 miles from Tel Aviv . It 's not going to happen , " he said amid calls by many to accept a lasting ceasefire-hostage release deal in the Palestinian enclave . The Journal op-ed notes that the Israeli prime minister only envisions such a deal to be a partial one if the Palestinian terrorist organization is still intact . <p> The Israeli leader told Kaufman that Israel is " winning big " against its opponents with the weakening of Hamas and Hezbollah and the dismantlement of Syria 's Assad regime , the op-ed notes . <p> Netanyahu also claimed in the interview that only days after October 7 , some Israeli military officials suggested going more after the Hezbollah terrorist organization so that Hamas would be left " intact in the south , " to which the prime minister disagreed and said , " We should n't conduct a two-front war . One massive front at a time . We 're here to uproot Hamas -- not to deliver deterrent blows , but to destroy it . " <p> Netanyahu then defended Israel 's position to control the Philadelphi Corridor in Gaza 's south , saying , " It 's not enough to destroy Hamas if you do n't control the southern closure . " Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu during a situational assessment on Mount Hermon . December 17 , 2024. ( credit : IDF SPOKESPERSON 'S UNIT ) <p> He then discussed the US withholding weapons should Israel enter Rafah , which Netanyahu described as a " legitimate case " and appreciated the pressure US President Joe Biden was under on the matter , Kaufman 's op-ed stated , with the Israeli leader saying " It 's not easy to be president , let 's face it , with these very radical fringes in his party . It was n't easy to do what Mr. Biden did . " <h> Netanyahu says Islamic Republic and its proxies are weakening <p> Looking towards Israel 's northern border , Netanyahu told Kaufman that before his assassination , Hezbollah Secretary-General Hassan Nasrallah " was literally taking over the command of the military actions . But the thing that startled me was that I realized he was the axis of the axis , replacing Qassem Soleimani . " <p> He later said that Iran " has no supply line , " saying the Islamic Republic spent billions of dollars on Syria , Hezbollah , and Hamas . " We warned Assad not to let Iran supply Hezbollah with weapons through Syria . He played dumb , " he added . " I do n't know if we killed anyone , but we certainly smashed the weaponry of the Syrian army , " he said regarding the Israeli bombing of Syria 's chemical weapons facilities . " We do n't want all the stuff the Syrians amassed falling into the hands of the jihadists . " <p> He then made it clear that he was optimistic about US President-elect Donald Trump returning to the Oval Office , saying that he " places the onus squarely on Hamas and tells them there will be consequences . " 
@@119112442 <h> The smuggling routes to the West Bank had two routes : the first passed through Syria to Jordan ; the second route began in Syria , through Lebanon , and then weapons were smuggled directly into Israel . <p> The embroidered flags of Lebanon , Israel , the Islamic Republic of Iran , and the Palestinian Authority ( illustrative ) ( photo credit : SHUTTERSTOCK ) <p> Iran 's weapons smuggling routes to Syria , Lebanon and the West Bank were revealed by documents recently captured from Hamas , according to a new study by the Maj.-Gen . Meir Amit Intelligence and Terrorism Information Center . <p> The documents revealed details on the collapse of a Hamas smuggling network in Jordan and how the terror organization and the Islamic Republic attempted to transfer weapons to the West Bank in an effort to ignite another front against Israel . <p> The United States , Israel , and Jordan have also taken major steps to prevent these smuggling operations , the documents revealed , alongside Russian involvement . Additionally , Russia secretly worked to limit smuggling in the Syria-Jordan-Israel border triangle . <p> The publication and research are based on numerous documents seized by the IDF in Gaza and analyzed by the Shin Bet and IDF Intelligence Directorate . <p> Until the fall of Assad 's regime , Syria served as a central smuggling route that helped Hezbollah arm itself with advanced and precise weaponry , some of which has been used in combat against Israel . Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps ( IRGC ) Commander-in-Chief Major General Hossein Salami reviews military equipment during an IRGC ground forces military drill in the Aras area , East Azerbaijan province , Iran , October 17 , 2022. ( credit : IRGC/WANA ( West Asia News Agency ) /Handout via REUTERS ) <h> Smuggling routes to the West Bank <p> The smuggling routes to the West Bank relied on two main journeys . The first passed through Syria to Jordan , where the weapons were handed over to Bedouin smugglers , who then smuggled them across the Israeli border into the West Bank . <p> The second route began in Syria , passed through Lebanon , and the weapons were smuggled directly into Israel . " After Hezbollah began firing rockets onto Israel on October 8 of last year , the Lebanese route was partially blocked due to increased Israeli security forces along the Lebanese border , " researchers from the Intelligence and Terrorism Information Center noted . <p> " The first section discusses the land supply lines from Iran to Syria and Lebanon , which operate through three routes , " the document detailed . <p> " The first route passes through Baghdad , goes through the city of Ramadi , reaches the Al-Bukamal crossing on the Syrian-Iraqi border , then moves through Deir ez-Zor in Syria , then to Palmyra , from there to Damascus and then to Beirut . The second route starts from Tehran to Al-Basra in Iraq , then to Baghdad , and from there to the ' Al-Tanf ' crossing on the Syrian-Iraqi border , and from there to Damascus . The third route starts from Iran to the city of Al-Muthanna in Iraq , then to Al-Hasakah in Syria , then to Adala , and from there to Latakia . This route is now inactive . <h> Measures to block smuggling routes <p> " The American and Israeli measures were varied to block these lines by US control over strategic areas near these routes , or by imposing US sanctions on groups and individuals involved , and even carrying out airstrikes to disrupt these lines , " the document states . Drugs were also being transferred through the smuggling routes alongside weapons . <p> " There are two supply lines through which drugs are also smuggled : the first started in the Shebaa Farms in southern Lebanon , from there to the Beit Jan area in Syria , then to Khan Arnabeh , from there to the village of Jassim , and then to the village of Nawa in southern Syria . It then moves to Daraa on the Syrian-Jordanian border and into Jordan . <p> " The second route starts at the land border between Iraq and Jordan to smuggle weapons and money into the latter and then into the West Bank . " <p> The seized documents revealed the new smuggling methods developed by Iran : " Innovative ' methods ' were used to circumvent border security measures at the Syria-Jordan and Iraq-Syria borders , such as drones used to transport weapons and drugs , the utilization of old oil pipelines connecting Jordan to Iraq , and employing refugees to work at the Syria-Iraq border . " <h> What has Jordan done ? <p> The research also revealed that Jordan has been acting strongly to disrupt smuggling operations in its territory : " Jordan has an extensive network of families involved in smuggling . The two main families are the Al-Saeed and Al-Ramthan families , with Mohammad Al-Ramthan being the key figure in this process , as he is the brother of Marai Al-Ramthan , who was killed in a Jordanian airstrike in May 2023 . Meanwhile , the Fourth Armored Division of the Syrian Army , commanded by Maher al-Assad ( the brother of the ousted Syrian president Bashar al-Assad ) , assisted in the operations through Hezbollah , " the publication notes . <p> In Israel , Jordan 's efficiency was positively noted , with examples of their recent activities such as their security forces " thwarting an attempt by dozens of smugglers linked to pro-Iranian militias to infiltrate from Syria with a large quantity of weapons , including rocket launchers , mines , and explosives , along with large quantities of drugs . Several Border Guard soldiers were injured in the exchange of fire , and nine of the smugglers were arrested . " <p> The report noted that " senior officials in the ' Resistance Axis ' publicly acknowledged that the Syrian revolution closed the supply lines passing through Syria , though they tried to downplay the strategic impact . Hezbollah 's Secretary-General , Naim Qassem , said in a speech that due to the fall of Assad 's regime , Hezbollah lost its military supply route . He added that the ' Resistance ' is flexible and that if the new government does not allow the transfer of weapons , alternative routes will need to be found . " <p> It also mentioned IRGC Commander Hossein Salami , and how he " stated that all the routes that could have been used to transfer Iranian forces to Syria were closed . He also claimed that the ' Resistance Front ' has become independent and is no longer reliant on Iran . " <p> It was emphasized that " besides the disruption of Iranian arms shipments to Hezbollah , the Syrian revolution could also impact Hezbollah 's efforts to reconstruct the devastation in Lebanon caused by the conflict with Israel . ' Observers ' noted that Hezbollah had relied on Iran for economic support and logistical aid such as raw materials and construction . But now Syrian rebels control the borders and crossings , blocking the supply route from Iran , through Iraq to Damascus . " <p> The authors of the report argue that " The leaders of these Iranian operations include the Special Operations Division of the IRGC 's Intelligence Organization , Division 4000 , led by Javad Ghaffari , and the Special Operations Unit of the Quds Force on Syrian soil , Unit 18840 , part of Unit 840 under the command of Asghar Baqeri . <p> " Since 2007 , and especially in the last decade , Hamas has enjoyed massive Iranian military support , which has been reflected in the supply of Iranian weapons , the training of its operatives in Iran , the transfer of Iranian knowledge and capabilities through various routes to Gaza and the West Bank , as well as extensive financial support , " the research concluded . " The former commander of the Quds Force , Qassem Soleimani , who was killed in an American strike in Iraq in January 2020 , was considered the one who established the military assistance to Hamas. " 
@@119112443 <h> Israeli forces also found maps of Israeli communities that bordered the Palestinian enclave . <p> Footage from the underground tunnel in Beit Lahia that the IDF located on December 20 , 2024 ( Video credit : IDF Spokesperson 's Unit ) <p> The IDF destroyed three tunnel routes that , when combined , ran a length of 7.5 kilometers in the city of Beit Lahia in northern Gaza on Friday , the military announced . <p> The tunnel routes were first identified by the IDF 's Kfir Brigade under the command of its 162nd Division , along with engineering troops and soldiers from the military 's Yahalom Unit . <p> The tunnels also reached dozens of meters in depth , the IDF update noted , and soldiers found military equipment that was captured by Hamas terrorists on October 7 of last year . Forces also discovered maps of Israeli communities bordering the Palestinian enclave . <p> The Kfir Brigade made this discovery after already operating since last October to locate weapons owned by the Hamas terrorist organization and dismantle their infrastructure " both above and below ground , " the update noted . <h> Yahalom Unit 's other operations <p> The day before , the Yahalom Unit investigated an underground Hezbollah tunnel in southern Lebanon , where the IDF found weaponry , surveillance systems , and additional military equipment used by the Lebanon-based terror organization.Weapons located by the IDF in Beit Lahia in northern Gaza on December 20 , 2024. ( credit : IDF SPOKESPERSON 'S UNIT ) <p> All the weapons were said to have been seized by the IDF in the southern Lebanon operation . 
@@119112448 <h> Tough questions in Damascus and the region <p> The recent developments in Syria , including those of the past few weeks and as recently as yesterday , are certain not to remain confined within Syrian borders . <p> Indeed , it may not be an overstatement to claim that these events will be a catalyst for intensifying the ongoing struggle for dominance on the world stage . <p> The Syrian conflict has taken on international dimensions since Russia 's intervention to bolster the Bashar al-Assad regime . This move paved the way for a new international-regional security dynamic at the expense of the Syrian state , its sovereignty , Arab national security , and , eventually , regional stability . The Assad regime , using this new equation , managed to endure and maintain the state 's integrity , but with significant concessions to the influence of international and regional players . <p> The real danger lies in these actors primarily operating through their proxies -- militias and armed groups within Syria -- that scrupulously follow the directives of their external sponsors . These proxies reflect the intricate relationships among their external backers , which fluctuate between collaboration and conflict at different phases . <p> Ultimately , their primary aim is to manipulate the Syrian landscape to create international and regional equilibriums aligned with their interests , often at the cost of Syrian statehood , regional security , and the well-being of the Syrian people . The Syrian regime has allied with these actors , yet it remains an arrangement that can not endure indefinitely . A SYRIAN rebel fires rounds during celebrations near the New Clock Tower in the central city of Homs , December 8 , 2024. ( credit : MUHAMMAD HAJ KADOUR/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> In my view , this is a precise characterization of the Syrian crisis . Syria currently stands at a precarious and complex juncture , one laden with implications demanding meticulous and unbiased analysis devoid of narrow agendas . <p> In this context , two critical observations must guide our approach to the Syrian issue . The first pertains to the nature of the ongoing conflict . Some persist in labeling it a power struggle between the regime and the opposition , proposing that the fall of Assad 's regime is the threshold to political change and the establishment of a " democratic system . " <p> This perspective , however , no longer aligns with the current reality . While this description might have held some validity during the early phases of the Syrian crisis , it has now evolved into a struggle to control the Syrian state itself , orchestrated through calculated arrangements and agreements . <p> Interpreting the positive reactions of ordinary Syrians to the regime 's downfall and the apparent embrace of local proxies as signals of a new political era is a misunderstanding . <p> THESE REACTIONS must be evaluated within the context of the fleeting rhetoric employed by the groups currently in power , who seek to ingratiate themselves with the populace in the short term but may pivot toward their own agendas and those of external forces . <p> The second observation underscores a recurrent lesson : the peril of undermining the nation-state and its established national armies . The experiences in the region since 2011 , if not earlier , affirm this lesson -- suggesting that moving away from a stable nation-state and regular armed forces only increases the prospects of instability and heightens chaos . <p> This inverse relationship becomes even more apparent when coupled with two additional factors : internal diversity and ethnic and religious divisions within society , and sectarian and demographic entanglements with neighboring countries . The deeper these divides , the more likely the repercussions of the collapse of the state and its military will transcend immediate borders . <p> This conclusion emphasizes the urgent need for a swift regional consensus on preserving the Syrian state . This requires redefining the crisis and the ongoing conflict 's nature . While there are undeniable political and security concerns among several regional actors , there are also significant Arab interests tied to Syria and the broader region , which can not be ignored or dismissed by any external party . <p> Therefore , when regional and international actors engage with the Syrian issue , they must address their security concerns without compromising the future of the Syrian state or society -- these matters are for the Syrian people alone to decide . It is crucial to recognize the necessity of maintaining the Syrian army as a cornerstone of the state 's preservation . <p> We should draw lessons from other experiences in the region and maintain a clear distinction between the Syrian army and the regime . This distinction is vital given the severe consequences that could ensue from the collapse of the Syrian state and military , particularly considering the regional context and previously mentioned conditions . <p> It also underscores the need for a political process to manage a transition informed by regional challenges . A political process that is feasible and sustainable should serve the interests of consolidating the Syrian state and fostering a stable , inclusive political system . The process must originate within Syria , owned and led by Syrians and Syrian political entities from inception to execution . <p> Furthermore , it should resist complete dependence on external balances to prevent foreign parties from stalling or vetoing it . The region 's movement away from the stability of nation-states and regular national armies exacerbates instability and deepens chaos . <p> The more these entities weaken , the more volatile and chaotic the situation becomes . -- Mohammed Fayez Farhat <h> Syria after Assad : Four urgent challenges <p> However , revolutions seldom culminate in a seamless transition to stable governance . While Assad 's rapid removal has thus far resulted in minimal bloodshed , history paints a mixed picture of potential outcomes . <p> For instance , the Iranian revolution was succeeded by intense internal strife , and within a year , the nascent Islamic Republic was embroiled in a full-scale war with Iraq . Similarly , Ukraine 's 2014 revolution , which resulted in the ousting of its pro-Russian president , Viktor Yanukovych , quickly provoked Russia to annex Crimea and assert its presence in eastern Ukraine . <p> The first hurdle facing the new leadership in Damascus is to reassure key global powers that the extensive arsenals , including chemical weapons and ballistic missiles , left by Assad 's forces are secure and will not fall into the hands of extremist factions such as the Islamic State or other groups with divergent agendas . Both Israel and the US have already initiated military actions to dismantle many of Assad 's weapons caches . <p> The second equally vital task is to assure significant minorities that supported Assad , such as the Alawite and Christian communities , that they will be protected . The new leaders in Damascus would be wise to heed the lessons from Iraq following the US-led toppling of Saddam Hussein in 2003 . <p> The American occupiers made the grave error of disbanding the Iraqi army and banning the Ba'ath Party , effectively eliminating numerous essential civil servants . A functioning bureaucracy is the backbone of any society . The post-World War II Allied occupation of Germany and Japan demonstrated the importance of maintaining essential services by retaining local personnel to ensure the continuity of complex societal functions . <p> The third challenge , particularly in light of the Taliban 's egregious treatment of women after their resurgence in 2021 , is to prevent radicals from imposing oppressive gender policies . Should Syria 's new regime adopt a similar approach , it would quash prospects for international cooperation , recognition , and the myriad benefits arising from the equitable treatment of women and minorities . <p> The fourth challenge requires outside powers to reach a consensus on their expectations for the new order . Central to this is an understanding among Turkey , the Gulf states , the US , and Israel on handling Iran and Russia . Both nations have seen their sway in Syria diminish and are wary of external pressures pushing them to relinquish regional strategic goals . <p> In the wake of losing Syria and strategic access to Hezbollah , Iran faces a decision : to accelerate its nuclear ambitions or to seize the opportunity to engage diplomatically with the incoming Trump administration to alleviate sanctions . This would demand Iran freezing its nuclear activities and permitting the revival of rigorous UN inspections . <p> The Russian quandary may prove to be the most formidable . Deprived of Syrian access , Russia 's objectives in Africa could falter , and its crucial access to warm-water ports and airbases on Syria 's Mediterranean coast might vanish . Such a scenario would likely provoke Moscow to intensify its efforts in Ukraine . However , it could encounter a more unified Europe and possibly a new Trump administration less sympathetic to Russia than some have speculated . -- Geoffrey Kemp <h> Why did the Assad regime collapse so quickly ? <p> Al Qabas , Kuwait , December 14 <p> At 9 p.m. on Saturday , December 7 , I reached out to Dr. Radwan Ziadeh , the founder and director of the Damascus Center for Human Rights Studies and a visiting scholar at Harvard University 's Carr Center for Human Rights . <p> My purpose was to gain insights into the military and political landscape in Syria . To my surprise , Dr. Ziadeh expressed astonishment at the rapid disintegration of regime forces . He assured me that the opposition had a firm grip on Aleppo , handling it even more effectively than American forces had managed Baghdad after Saddam 's fall . <p> When I inquired about the safety of minorities in Aleppo , he offered reassuring anecdotes , saying that on Sunday , November 30 , fighters from Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham attended a church service and assisted in setting up a Christmas tree . Although he predicted that these forces would soon enter Damascus , I chose not to contest his optimism , ending our conversation on that note . <p> On the morning of Sunday , December 8 , I awoke expecting to hear reports of heavy combat near Homs . Instead , the news was that HTS had indeed breached Damascus . This revelation caught not only me but also American intelligence off guard . <p> As reported by The New York Times on December 9 , US intelligence services , until the evening of December 6 , had assessed a 50% likelihood that Bashar al-Assad could fend off opposition forces and suspected he might resort to using chemical weapons . The unexpected collapse of Syrian forces prompted a flurry of articles and research efforts aimed at explaining it . <p> Seeking answers , I ventured to contact friends in Damascus -- something I previously avoided due to the political sensitivity . On December 9 , I reached Yasser , a renowned architect from Damascus University specializing in restoring historic homes near the Umayyad Mosque . <p> Yasser recounted his decision to flee to Beirut with his family on Saturday , December 7 , to avoid potential violence in Damascus . Ironically , he learned of his city 's " liberation " only after arriving in Beirut . He remarked that he had anticipated his children might grow up under the presidency of Hafez Bashar al-Assad , the eldest son of the deposed ruler . <p> Many observers , including myself , misjudged the Assad regime 's resilience , but analyzing the factors behind its swift collapse is somewhat straightforward and can be attributed to several key elements : the collapse of the Syrian economy , the events of October 7 , the plight of the Alawite sect , Turkish support for the opposition , Russian disillusionment with Assad , and Iranian disappointment . <p> The Syrian economy plummeted by 84% between 2010 and 2023 . While precise statistics are elusive , given Syria 's international isolation , the World Bank estimated the economic decline using satellite imagery of nighttime lighting in Syrian urban areas . Even the lucrative Captagon factories , operated by Maher al-Assad and his associates , do not count toward the official economy . <p> THE EVENTS of October 7 , which saw the deaths of approximately 50,000 Palestinians from Gaza and the displacement of two million others , inadvertently contributed to the liberation of the Syrian people from Assad 's grip . Israeli strikes incapacitated Hezbollah in Lebanon and Syria , limiting their ability to assist Assad . While Israel may not have targeted Assad intentionally , seeing him as a stabilizing force on the Golan front , the unpredictable consequences of war played out . <p> The regime relied heavily on Alawites for key military and intelligence roles , yet only a select few benefited materially , primarily the Assad and Makhlouf families , alongside Asma al-Assad , the president 's wife . Despite the Alawite community losing around 100,000 members defending Assad between 2011 and 2016 , their economic conditions did not improve . <p> In a poignant letter reported by Zaman Alwasl , a notable Syrian news outlet , on December 4 , 2024 , an Alawite citizen criticized Assad 's policies , accusing them of posing an existential threat to Alawites despite Assad 's own Alawite heritage . The letter underscores the disparity between ordinary Alawites and the elite families . <p> Despite Alawites representing about 10% of Turkey 's population , relations with Syria soured under the Assads and worsened with the ascension of Turkey 's Justice and Development Party . <p> The 2011 -- 2016 Syrian revolution and the influx of millions of Syrian refugees into Turkey emphasized the interdependence of Syrian and Turkish stability . With roughly 4 million displaced Syrians in Turkey , most without substantial resources , President Recep Tayyip Erdogan unsuccessfully invited Assad for discussions , leading Turkey to support the opposition through logistical and intelligence means . <p> Rooted in the late-1950s arms trade and maturing over decades , Russian-Syrian relations deepened through military , cultural , and social exchanges . Russia , aware of the Syrian army 's poor state and low morale , implored Assad to negotiate seriously with the opposition . Yet Assad remained defiant , ignoring repeated Russian urgings . <p> Despite Russia 's military interventions during 2013-2016 , the diminished intensity signaled Moscow 's recognition of Assad 's doomed prospects . Ultimately , Russia extricated him by relocating him and his family to Moscow . <p> Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei involved Iran and Hezbollah heavily in Syria , a decision seen as strategically flawed given their " revolutionary " stance juxtaposed against backing a dictator . Early in the conflict , as revolutionaries neared Damascus , even Iranian leaders like President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad acknowledged Assad 's end was likely . Financial and military burdens on Iran and its allies could not be sustained , as declared by Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps Commander Hossein Salami . <p> These six points largely illuminate the factors behind the Assad regime 's unexpected downfall . <p> Although Syria faces a challenging road to stability and development , the collapse of the regime signifies the end of a pervasive climate of fear . The fear that isolated people from each other and from the world has begun to erode , fostering a new sense of hope . -- Dr. Hamed Al-Hamoud <h> Saudi Arabia and the World Cup bid <p> Asharq Al-Awsat , London , December 12 <p> In a highly anticipated development , the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has been granted the prestigious opportunity to host the 2034 FIFA World Cup , becoming the sole host nation for the first expanded version of the tournament approved by the International Federation of Association Football ( FIFA ) . <p> On Wednesday , FIFA confirmed that Saudi Arabia would host the Men 's World Cup in 2034 , while the 2030 event would be a joint effort by Morocco , Spain , and Portugal . Saudi Arabia 's successful bid marks a historic moment as it becomes the first country to host all 48 teams simultaneously , following the 2026 tournament scheduled to occur in the US , Mexico , and Canada and the 2030 event in Spain , Morocco , and Portugal . <p> In the evaluation process , Saudi Arabia 's proposal received an unprecedented rating of 4.18 out of 5 , the highest in the history of World Cup host bids since the tournament 's inception in 1930 . <p> FIFA categorized the associated risks as moderate , in contrast to the " high risk " assessments of the 2026 and 2030 World Cup bids . With this development , Saudi Arabia is already laying the groundwork for the 2034 event , making the nation a focal point for global scrutiny and interest . <p> As is widely understood , soccer is not merely a sport ; it is an expansive global industry with intricate layers , interests , and networks . The World Cup is a seminal global event primarily centered on the competition itself , but it also intersects with political , sporting , social , economic , marketing , and cultural dimensions . The World Cup is unrivaled as the largest global event , captivating audiences worldwide , either directly or indirectly . <p> With its commitment to hosting an exceptional tournament , Saudi Arabia pledges to welcome diverse cultures and civilizations , signifying a pivotal step toward further openness -- a core tenet of the Saudi vision , which aims to foster a civilization interconnected with the global community . <p> Since the initiation of its Vision 2030 under King Salman 's leadership and Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman 's guidance , Saudi Arabia has pursued a path starkly opposed to the extremist , insular , and futile projects that have marred the region . This trajectory reflects a forward-looking approach focused on global engagement , symbolized by opening windows to new ideas and perspectives . <p> It stands in direct contrast to the fundamentalist ideologies of movements such as the Muslim Brotherhood , al-Qaida , Khomeinism , and the Houthi movement , not to mention the empty rhetorics of extremist factions . <p> This is Saudi Arabia 's deliberate choice , a vision starkly different from the chaos and superstitions propagated by disruptive elements to the north in the Levant , south in Yemen , and to the East and West . Comparing these paths clarifies the emergence of the dawn of a new day for the kingdom and our region . -- Mishari Al-Dhaidi <p> Translated by Asaf Zilberfarb . All assertions , opinions , facts , and information presented in these articles are the sole responsibility of their respective authors and are not necessarily those of The Media Line , which assumes no responsibility for their content . 
@@119112449 <p> Amichai Chikli , Israel 's Diaspora Affairs and Combating Antisemitism Minister , has accused Pope Francis of perpetuating " dangerous blood libel " against Israel and distorting history in a strongly worded letter sent on Thursday . <p> Chikli 's criticism focused on two recent Vatican actions : the Pope 's comments suggesting that allegations of genocide in Gaza " should be carefully investigated " and a nativity display portraying Jesus wrapped in a keffiyeh , a symbol of Palestinian nationalism . <p> " Two weeks ago , you took part in a display that echoes the Palestinian narrative , portraying Jesus as a Palestinian Arab , " Chikli wrote . " Had this been a one-time matter , I would not have written . However , in a more severe expression , you recently insinuated that the State of Israel ' might be ' committing genocide in Gaza . " <p> He slammed the use of the term genocide , writing : " As a nation that lost six million of its sons and daughters in the Holocaust , we are especially sensitive to the trivialization of the term ' genocide ' -- a trivialization that is dangerously close to Holocaust denial . " <p> A nativity scene featuring baby Jesus wrapped in a keffiyeh was unveiled in St. Peter 's Square as part of the Vatican 's Christmas display more than a week ago , designed by Bethlehem artists Johny Andonia and Faten Nastas Mitwasi . Pope Francis , at the event , called for peace , condemning war and the arms industry , stating , " Enough with wars , enough of violence ! " The artwork , " Nativity of Bethlehem 2024 , " was created with olive wood , mother-of-pearl , and other materials , showcasing Palestinian symbolism . This display follows Pope Francis ' recent controversial comments suggesting that Israel 's actions in Gaza might constitute genocide . Pope Francis , with a large bruise on his chin , arrives to hold an audience with donors of the St. Peter 's Square Christmas tree and Nativity scene , at the Paul VI Hall at the Vatican , December 7 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/REMO CASILLI ) <h> ' Rewriting history ' <p> Chikli also condemned the nativity display as an example of historical distortion , linking it to broader efforts to undermine Jewish historical connections . <p> " It is a well-known fact that Jesus was born to a Jewish mother , lived as a Jew , and died as a Jew , " Chikli stated . " There is no other way to understand this decision than as a deliberate adoption of the Palestinian narrative . " <p> He emphasized Bethlehem 's significance in Jewish history , writing : " Bethlehem is the city where Rachel , our matriarch , died giving birth to Benjamin , and where David , son of Jesse , was born -- the same David who became the King of Israel and made Jerusalem its capital . " <p> The minister refuted comparisons between Israel 's actions in Gaza and genocide , calling such accusations " a disgusting attempt to rewrite history . " He described Hamas ' October 7 attack on Israel as " savage " and detailed the atrocities committed : <p> " These terrorists committed horrific war crimes against humanity , including the massacre of dozens of Israeli families , the rape and sadistic torture of women , and the kidnapping of children , elderly , and men , " Chikli wrote . " This is what we are fighting against . It is astonishing that this even needs to be explained to the world . " <p> To highlight the severity of the term genocide , Chikli referenced Treblinka , where " 845,000 Jews from Poland were murdered . " He wrote : " This is what genocide looks like . To compare this to Israel 's fight against Hamas is a dangerous distortion of history . " <h> A plea for clarity <p> Chikli urged Pope Francis to clarify his position on what he called " the blood libel against the Jewish state . " He acknowledged the Pope 's previous efforts to strengthen Jewish-Christian ties , mainly through meetings with Jewish leaders and families of Israeli hostages . <p> " We know you are a close friend of the Jewish people , " Chikli wrote while stressing the importance of rejecting false allegations against Israel . " Your guidance , actions , and leadership have tremendous influence worldwide . " <p> Chikli also referenced the upcoming 60th anniversary of the Nostra Aetate Declaration , which marked a turning point in Jewish-Christian relations . <p> The letter concluded with a call for moral leadership . " Truth and God are one , " Chikli wrote . " We ask you to stand for the truth . " <p> The letter underscores growing tensions between Israel and the Vatican , particularly over narratives surrounding the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and the historical legacy of Jewish-Christian relations . 
@@119112452 <h> Blinken : Hamas realizes ' cavalry not coming , ' should agree to a ceasefire and ' do it now ' <h> If Hamas truly cares about the Palestinian people , they will " they will say yes and do it now , " Blinken said . <p> US Secretary of State Antony Blinken holds a press conference , at the NATO 's headquarters in Brussels , Belgium December 4 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/Johanna Geron ) <p> Secretary of State Antony Blinken said that a ceasefire between Israel and Hamas " logically " could happen in a Thursday interview with Bloomberg . <p> " I say that with all of the caution that comes with that statement because we 've been very close before , " he told The Big Take on Thursday . <p> " But what 's changed is this : Hamas knows that the cavalry is not coming to the rescue , " Blinken continued . " For months and months , It hoped it would get a wider war with Hezbollah , with Iran , with Iranian-aligned groups , coming in and creating more problems from Israel on more fronts and helping Hamas endure . " <p> " We now know that that is not happening , they know it 's not happening , because of the very important work that was done with us and with others dealing with the unprecedented Iranian attacks on Israel , dealing with Hezbollah , so I think that 's concentrated minds among Hamas on the need to complete this deal , " the secretary of state added . <p> Blinken noted the difficulty in high-level negotiations and said that the deal " can still move in the other direction " but noted the efforts the US had taken to achieve these matters . US Secretary of State , Antony Blinken , in Israel to discuss furthering a ceasefire deal proposal , June 11 , 2024 ( credit : AVSHALOM SASSONI/MAARIV ) <h> Will they say yes ? <p> " The fundamental question right now is ' Is Hamas finally prepared to say yes ? ' " Blinken told The Big Take . " If it does , we get the hostages back . We get a ceasefire . We get an immediate , dramatic improvement in the lives of Palestinian children , women , and men who 've been caught in this horrible crossfire since October 7 of Hamas 's making . <p> " If they really purport to care about the Palestinian people , they will say yes and do it now . " <p> When asked about his regrets regarding humanitarian aid to Gaza , the chief diplomat said that the US had attempted to do several things daily since the onset of the Israel-Hamas war . <p> " First , to stand resolute with Israel to try to make sure that October 7 would never happen again , " he noted . " Second , to prevent this war from going wider , because if that happened , if other fronts opened up -- whether it was with Iran , whether it was with Hezbollah , these other groups -- more death , more destruction , and it would probably prolong what was going on in Gaza . Three , to do whatever we could to make sure that people in Gaza were getting the assistance they need , were getting the protections they need . <p> Blinken noted a " noticeable improvement " in aid , " but we 've seen that before , and then we 've seen it fall off . " <p> He noted the " unique " environment of Gaza because they are " trapped " there and said that Israel still had a responsibility to assist and protect those who need it . <p> " In most other conflicts , people -- they can become refugees , " Blinken noted . " That 's not a good thing , but it 's better than being caught in the middle of a hot war . And also , you have an enemy in the case of Hamas that 's fully enmeshed with the civilian population , living in and under buildings -- apartment buildings , schools , mosques , hospitals . " <p> " The best way to finally deal with the needs of the people would be to end the conflict , would be to get the ceasefire , to get the hostages home , " he said . " We 've been working very hard to make sure that as best we can , we actually start to implement plans for a better future for the region , or if we do n't have time to fully do that , to be able to hand them off -- not just getting the hostage and ceasefire deal , but having a clear plan for what follows , a day-after plan for Gaza so that there 's no vacuum that Hamas can refill . " <p> Blinken claimed that the Biden administration had done immense work to continue the Abraham Accords and wanted to see normalization between Isarel and Saudi Arabia next . The work is reportedly " ready to be handed over to the new administration , and hopefully , they 'll carry the ball forward . " 
@@119112453 <h> IDF confiscates weapons , arrests four wanted people in West Bank op . <p> The IDF , Shin Bet ( Israel Security Agency ) , and Israel Border Police confiscated five weapons and large quantities of ammunition in As-Samu and Halhul in the West Bank , the agencies announced on Friday . <p> The forces also arrested four wanted suspects in Halhul , Dayr Ghazale , and Silat ad-Dhahr and transferred them for further processing . <h> " I want to say you will never be alone again in your fight for freedom and to preserve the country and the land and the heritage that God gave you , " Huckabee said . <p> Mike Huckabee , President-elect Donald Trump 's nominated US ambassador to Israel , reaffirmed America 's commitment to Israel , stating that the Jewish state would never stand alone during a speech at the One Israel Fund 's 30th anniversary gala . <p> " I want to say you will never be alone again in your fight for freedom and to preserve the country and the land and the heritage that God gave you , " Huckabee said . <p> During the event , Huckabee also met the head of the Binyamin Council and the chairman of the Yesha Council , Israel Gantz . The two discussed what is expected in the new era under President Trump . <h> Future of the West Bank <p> Gantz also met senior US officials to promote the future of the West Bank . <p> " The meetings with the senior US officials are very important , and he heard that they exude a spirit that has not been present in the White House for years , " Gantz told The Jerusalem Post . <p> The Binyamin Council head added that " they are true partners of the State of Israel and the settlement , and a large number of them have visited us in Binyamin in recent years . They are capable of promoting a policy based on truth in which the Land of Israel belongs to the people of Israel and the axis of evil must be completely eradicated wherever it is . " <h> LEGAL AFFAIRS : The definition of genocide is firmly established in the Genocide Convention and explicitly requires clear evidence of an intent to destroy a protected group . <p> By NATHAN KLABIN/THE MEDIA LINE IRELAND HAS joined South Africa in its accusations of genocide at Israel . Here , jurist Malcolm Shaw looks on at the ICJ during a ruling on South Africa 's request to order a halt to Israel 's Rafah offensive in Gaza in May. ( photo credit : JOHANNA GERON/REUTERS ) <p> Ireland is going to request that the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) in The Hague broaden its interpretation of genocide amid the ongoing war between Israel and Hamas , with Ireland 's deputy prime minister , Miche ? l Martin , asserting that the IDF 's actions in Gaza constitute " collective punishment " of Palestinians . <p> Martin expressed concerns that a " narrow interpretation " of genocide fosters a " culture of impunity , " minimizing civilian protection . The Irish leader emphasized that Ireland 's perspective on the UN 's Genocide Convention is more expansive , prioritizing civilian safety . However , he failed to make any mention of the 100 hostages and dead bodies that remain in Hamas captivity today . <p> Ireland secured cabinet approval to intervene in South Africa 's existing case at the ICJ against Israel over its actions in Gaza . Israel is facing allegations of committing genocide against Palestinians , allegations it has consistently denied , labeling them as unfounded and misleading . Ireland 's announcement also requested a change in the definition of genocide in Gambia 's case against Myanmar under the same UN Genocide Convention . <p> Iain Edwards , a defense counsel at the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) , also in The Hague , explained to The Media Line that the Irish filing will be made later this month , and that the details of the argument will be provided only then . <p> " I think the interpretation of how a state can commit genocide should not be excessively widely drawn , but there is certainly scope for the ICJ to look at the question afresh , " Edwards said . <p> International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) holds a hearing to allow parties to give their views on the legal consequences of Israel 's ' occupation ' of the Palestinian territories before eventually issuing a non-binding legal opinion in The Hague , Netherlands , February 19 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/PIROSCHKA VAN DE WOUW ) <p> Jackie Goodall , the founder and executive director of the Ireland Israel Alliance , bashed the initiative and highlighted its motivation . <p> " All of this is the appeasement of hostile and aggressive anti-Israel protesters and marchers , many of whom cover their faces with masks and keffiyehs , who regularly advocate for Israel 's destruction and defiantly call for ' Zionists out of Ireland ' while flying Hamas , Hezbollah terrorist flags on the streets of our main cities and even outside government buildings . They remain unchallenged , " she said . <p> " We are very concerned with how this issue is impacting Ireland 's diplomatic relationship with Israel . We fear this issue will further escalate matters between our two countries in the medium and long term , " Goodall added . <p> According to Goodall , the move does not reflect the sentiments of most Irish people ; however , " the increasingly hostile climate is very concerning , as many supporters are ever more fearful of extremist elements . " <p> For Dr. Eliav Lieblich , a scholar in public international law and a professor at Tel Aviv University , " The intervention by Ireland in South Africa 's case is a diplomatic blow to Israel , which highlights that this case does not strictly reflect a division between the Global North and the Global South -- although Ireland has historically been supportive of the Palestinians . " <p> Dr. Tammy Caner , director of the Law and National Security Program at the Institute for National Security Studies , believes it is essential to seek explanations from Israel " regarding its controversial military actions ; Israel may not be perfect and has made several mistakes , but the only genocidal war criminal in this war is Hamas . Requesting the ICJ to broaden its interpretation explicitly indicates that Israel is not committing genocide . " <p> Lieblich also agrees that attempting to change the definition of genocide amid a trial on the subject tells how the case is being seen by its supporters . " The text of the letter is a double-edged sword for the case since Ireland seems to concede that the accepted interpretation of the crime would not apply in this case and argues that it should be changed , " he said . <p> " Israel and its supporters will seize on this statement to claim that Ireland implicitly admits that Israel is not committing genocide based on accepted standards , " he added . <p> Asserting that Ireland would most likely not make other accusations against Israel if its effort in getting the court to redefine genocide wo n't succeed , Lieblich said : " Defining new crimes would not assist here , because the reason that the ICJ has jurisdiction over this case is specifically tied to the convention against genocide , " he added . <p> South Africa was only able to appeal to the ICJ rather than the ICC criminal court , based on the claim that Israel violated the UN Genocide Convention , to which both Israel and South Africa are parties . There were no other UN conventions under which South Africa could charge Israel for violations . <p> The definition of genocide is firmly established in the Genocide Convention and explicitly requires clear evidence of an intent to destroy a protected group , either in whole or in part . <p> " While the ICJ has the authority to interpret the Genocide Convention , it can not redefine this essential term simply upon Ireland 's request , " added Caner . <p> Regardless of whether the ICJ will accept Ireland 's move , it has amplified an already fraught international debate about the situation in Gaza . <h> Broader implications <p> As the ICJ deliberates on this contentious issue , the implications will certainly extend beyond Israel and Ireland , testing the balance between evolving interpretations of human rights and the foundational principles of legal precedent and impartiality . <p> The Irish government 's press release , making no distinction between civilian victims in Gaza and Hamas terrorists , stated only that " there has been a collective punishment of the Palestinian people through the intent and impact of military actions of Israel in Gaza , leaving 44,000 dead and millions of civilians displaced . " <p> Along with Ireland 's continued refusal to adopt the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance 's definition of antisemitism , this framing has fueled Israel 's accusations of bias and selective application of international law , according to Goodall . <h> Current progress in the talks remains stuck for the time being , as the two sides remain at an impasse over a couple of Israeli demands . <p> No progress was made towards the completion of a hostage deal/ceasefire agreement on Thursday , and CIA Director William J. Burns , who was in Doha for the talks , left Qatar after being there for a day , a US official , speaking on the condition of anonymity , told The Washington Post on Friday . <p> Burns is no longer in the Middle East , the official told the American news outlet . Nevertheless , negotiations are still underway as Israel , Hamas , and American , Egyptian , and Qatari mediators " want to prepare the ground for Trump , " a member of a diplomatic mission in the Middle East told the Post . <p> " They know that if they do n't reach such an agreement , it will not be a good thing for any of them , including the Israelis , " the member of the diplomatic mission said . " I think this has resulted in a lot of developments . ... The question is whether or not they wait for Trump . " <p> Nevertheless , current progress in the talks remains stuck for the time being , as the two sides remain at an impasse over a couple of Israeli demands , Egyptian officials told the Hezbollah-affiliated Lebanese news outlet Al-Akhbar on Friday . <p> Hamas official Osama Hamdan holds a press conference about the current war in Gaza . ( credit : HAMAS ) <h> Sticking points <p> The most notable of these points , according to the Lebanese news organization , is Israel 's requirement that Hamas provide it with a list of the names of all the hostages , living and dead . <p> Hamas sources told Al-Akhbar on Thursday that this demand would first require at least a one-week pause in the fighting so that Hamas and other terrorists could have enough space to locate and determine the status of the remaining hostages . <p> The other main Israeli demand that is causing a holdup in the talks , Hamas sources told Al-Akhbar , is that captive Israeli soldiers be included " in lists of prisoners who meet the criteria for the humanitarian phase . " <h> Current progress in the talks remains stuck for the time being , as the two sides remain at an impasse over a couple of Israeli demands . <p> No progress was made towards the completion of a hostage deal/ceasefire agreement on Thursday , and CIA Director William J. Burns , who was in Doha for the talks , left Qatar after being there for a day , a US official , speaking on the condition of anonymity , told The Washington Post on Friday . <p> Burns is no longer in the Middle East , the official told the American news outlet . Nevertheless , negotiations are still underway as Israel , Hamas , and American , Egyptian , and Qatari mediators " want to prepare the ground for Trump , " a member of a diplomatic mission in the Middle East told the Post . <h> Netanyahu , Katz approved Yemen strikes without cabinet input - KAN <p> The Wednesday night Israeli strikes on Yemen were approved by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Defense Minister Yisrael Katz but not by the cabinet , Israeli public broadcaster KAN reported on Friday . <p> Cabinet ministers were reportedly only made aware of the general details but , according to KAN 's sources , were not presented with either the targets of the attack or its purpose . 
@@119112454 <p> The Hostage Family Forum revealed that the psychological harm of captivity was as great or greater than the intense physical harm suffered by the hostages . <p> Around half of the Israeli public does not feel safe in public spaces . Some 63% of female respondents reported not feeling safe in a study by the Association of Rape Crisis Centers in Israel , compared to 42% of men . <p> Professionals who receive answer calls of distress from the Israeli population on a daily basis warn that in light of the continuation of the wars in Gaza , Lebanon , and beyond , they expect an increase in suicide risk rates , according to a University of Haifa study . DEMONSTRATORS CALL for the release of the hostages still held captive in Gaza , at Hostages Square in Tel Aviv , on Saturday night . The hostages taken by Hamas during its rampage have endured ordeals that defy any civilized description , the writer affirms. ( credit : AVSHALOM SASSONI/FLASH90 ) <p> In January , Walla reported that 1,600 IDF soldiers had shown symptoms of combat-related PTSD since the start of the war . Of those , 76% returned to combat duties after receiving treatment from mental health officials attached to their units stationed near combat zones . <p> So many are suffering from the consequences that war has ; not only war , but watching friends , family , and loved ones be decimated on October 7 . <h> Suicide rates <p> Eliran Mizrahi , a 40-year-old father of four , reported for duty to the Gaza Strip shortly after the October 7 massacre . He did not come back the same , his family told CNN in October . <p> Mizrahi struggled with PTSD for six months after his return and died by suicide shortly before he was supposed to be redeployed . <p> Shirel Golan , a survivor of the Hamas massacre at the Nova music festival , was found dead in her apartment on her 22nd birthday later that month . <p> According to her family , Golan suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder due to the horrific events she experienced at the festival on October 7 , when Hamas invaded Israel , massacring some 1,200 , including in the Nova Music Festival area , and kidnapping around 250 . <p> Her family said they did not receive adequate assistance from state authorities to get her the necessary treatment to deal with her experiences . <p> Indeed , the state has not been prioritizing support for the survivors of mass casualty events such as the Nova Massacre . <p> In November , it was revealed that the state would stop funding psychological assistance to the families of hostages who have returned from captivity . <p> According to the law , as soon as a hostage returns , the captive 's family is no longer entitled to psychological assistance financing . Still , the National Insurance Institute ( NII ) has not implemented this procedure so far , and now the families have received a notice that the assistance will stop . <p> Combat navigator Maj. ( res . ) Asaf Dagan was another reservist who took his own life earlier this year . His sister , Inbal , criticized the government over what she called its outdated , absurd policies regarding traumatized war veterans . <p> She emphasized her mother 's relentless efforts to help Asaf , noting that her pleas to the Defense Ministry and various other organizations fell on " deaf ears . " <p> " According to the outdated protocols of the Defense Ministry ... Asaf was supposed to ' reach out by himself ' to ask for help , " she wrote . <p> The state , simply put , can not abandon those suffering from trauma . We are in a critical time in which the needs of soldiers , for example , are written on the wall ; they are not yet post-traumatic , but rather , still within the trauma itself . The state has an opportunity and an obligation to get ahead , prepare , and tackle the issue head-on . <p> Unlike previous mass casualty events , many victims and their families were exposed to real-time footage through social media , creating the need for trauma treatment that addresses both direct trauma and digital exposure . <p> Many survivors were evacuated to different locations across Israel , creating a need for coordinated mental health services across multiple jurisdictions. 
@@119112455 <h> A status-quo situation allowed for the October 7 attack to take place . It 's time for us all to put on our thinking caps and discuss how we can move forward from here . <p> It 's time for us all to put on our thinking caps and discuss how to solve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict - If not to achieve peace , at least for us to live here securely. ( photo credit : The Jerusalem Post archives ) <p> It 's time for us to have an honest discussion about a three-word phrase that has become a bit of a cliche : The day after . <p> We are , at least according to leaders of Israel , the US and the negotiating countries , " closer than ever " to an initial hostage deal . There is a ceasefire in Lebanon . Hamas is close to being destroyed in Gaza . Even the brutal Syrian regime of Bashar al-Assad has crumbled . <p> But what now ? How do we move forward ? How do we restore the faith of Israelis in their country 's institutions ? And probably most importantly : What do we do about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict ? <p> The two-state solution has been the most known or internationally supported solution for our conflict with the Palestinians . But Israelis do n't support such a solution anymore . <p> Many who advocated for a two-state solution have mixed feelings post-October 7 . For example , the Knesset delivered a decisive message in February , overwhelmingly rejecting the unilateral recognition of Palestinian statehood . With 99 votes out of 120 , this was no mere routine decision but a bold affirmation that extended far beyond the coalition of a government proclamation issued earlier that week . PRIME MINISTER Benjamin Netanyahu attends the ceremony for the 70th cohort of military combat officers , near Mitzpe Ramon , in October . Netanyahu 's performance supports Churchill 's observation that one should never worry about action , but only inaction , the writer says . ( credit : AMIR COHEN/REUTERS ) <p> Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , switching seamlessly between Hebrew and English , did n't miss the opportunity to emphasize its significance : " The people of Israel and their elected representatives are united today as never before . " <p> Support for a two-state solution among Israelis is eroding , as reflected in a Pew Research Center survey published in September 2023 -- a month before October 7 . The numbers tell a stark story : just 35% of Israelis believed peaceful coexistence with an independent Palestinian state is possible -- a steep decline from 50% a decade before . <p> Among Arab Israelis , optimism has dropped by a staggering 33 points since 2013 , while Jewish Israelis have seen a 14-point decline . <p> After October 7 , and in the middle of the longest war Israel has ever had , a survey conducted by the Jerusalem Center for Foreign Affairs ( JCFA ) in June painted a telling picture of where Israelis stood on the idea of a Palestinian state within the framework of normalization with Saudi Arabia . The survey headline was clear : 64% of Israelis opposed it . <p> The numbers were n't surprising but remained jarring . On the Right , opposition was overwhelming at 84% . Centrists were more divided , with 54% against , while just 24% of left-wing voters rejected the idea . <h> Unsuccessful old ideas <p> THE PROBLEM is that the Western World still holds by a two-state solution , and Israeli leaders have n't yet succeeded in finding an alternative solution that is either practical or at least has public support . <p> A two-state solution , as described by pre-1967 borders , has for many decades been the centerpiece of international peacemaking . Ranging from the United Nations to the European Union , it is saluted regularly as the best route out of the Israeli-Palestinian impasse : Israel keeps its security , and the Palestinians get a state of their own , with their capital is East Jerusalem . Even the United States , while inconsistent in its actions , continues to endorse the concept rhetorically . <p> The Arab League 's 2002 peace initiative took it a step further , offering Israel full normalization with the Arab world in exchange for returning to those contentious borders . Within Israel , movements like Peace Now and what remains of the political Left once championed this vision , though their influence has waned in recent years . Across the ocean , organizations like J Street and Americans for Peace Now still carry the torch , insisting that freezing settlement expansion is essential to any real dialogue . <p> Academic think tanks such as the International Crisis Group and even some interfaith leaders have floated innovative approaches to these unique challenges . However , these ideas often stay in the brainstorming sessions , rejected by leaders of different persuasions unwilling to give an inch on their entrenched positions . <p> There is also the broader vision of regional cooperation with a two-state solution anchored within a wider framework . Egypt and Jordan , at various points , have indicated a willingness to help make it work if Israel shows flexibility . Different US administrations have flirted with wrapping the two-state formula into a broader regional approach in the hope of selling skeptical Arab states on the idea . <p> RIGHT-WING Israeli politicians and commentators have been recommending annexing the West Bank , an area giving Israeli citizenship to its Palestinians . Their goal was straightforward : Allow Israel to continue as a Jewish state . Proposals going this way , for the most part , exclude Gaza because it has such a hostile and enormous population ; likewise , it was then assumed it could self-govern . <p> Senior politicians like former defense minister Moshe Arens , former president Reuven Rivlin , and Uri Ariel have publicly demonstrated opposition to the division of the West Bank ( Judea and Samaria ) and instead supported a one-state solution . <p> Ambassador to the UK Tzipi Hotovely , who was then an MK , referred to the West Bank as a part of Israel 's historic homeland . Former Prime Minister Naftali Bennett supported Zone C 's annexation , comprising 60% of the West Bank that is under the control of Israel . Journalist and former Jerusalem Post columnist Caroline Glick questioned the population figures concerning Palestinians , saying they were inflated and that annexation would add just 1.4 million Palestinians to Israel 's population . Glick , however , favors a one-state solution based on Jewish majority rule but with the preservation of democratic values and protection of minority rights . <p> David Friedman , former US ambassador to Israel , has introduced a bold new plan for the Israeli-Palestinian conflict , titled The Future of Judea &amp; Samaria . Speaking at a convention in Nashville earlier this year , Friedman dismissed the two-state solution as unrealistic and dangerous , particularly after Hamas 's violent October 7 attack . " A Palestinian state is an existential threat to Israel , " he said , adding that " Israel has no margin for error . " <p> Friedman 's plan outlines a different path forward : Israel would maintain sovereignty over Judea , Samaria , and the Jordan Valley , with complete security control to ensure its safety . Palestinians would be free to govern their daily lives within their communities , with significant development funding from Gulf nations . In addition , the US , Israel , and Abraham Accord countries would work together to expand regional peace and stability . Prime minister Yitzhak Rabin and PLO head Yasser Arafat sign Oslo 2 maps in the White House on September 28 , 1995 , as Egyptian president Hosni Mubarak , US president Bill Clinton , and Jordan 's King Hussein watch . ( credit : Avi Ohayon/GPO ) <p> THE ISRAELI-Palestinian conflict has no shortage of proposed solutions , but each comes with its own complexities . Another suggestion is the confederation solution : A confederation between two independent states , namely Israel and Palestine . Such a model would mean close cooperation between the two states regarding security , economy , and shared resources , presumably including open borders and joint institutions . It requires the right balance between giving sovereignty to both states , ensuring they work together properly , and dealing with freedom-of-movement sensitivities . <p> The reality for now is keeping the status quo -- managing the conflict , not resolving it . It aims at stability , with the avoidance of major escalations . But this is far from ideal : it extends the suffering of Palestinians under occupation , nurtures resentment and radicalization on both sides and may lead to violent flare-ups . Meanwhile , ongoing settlement expansion further erodes the chances of a two-state solution . <p> Some of the other ideas that could be considered are those that can contribute toward bringing better prospects for peace , which include stabilizing the Palestinian economy to reduce tensions , and grassroots and dialog-promoting programs to build trust and understanding . But after October 7 , these ideas seem almost like science fiction -- and I have n't even started getting into the possible solutions for Gaza when the war is over . <p> If we are really the ' Start-Up Nation , ' should n't we be able to think of more creative or probable solutions ? <p> I 've decided to go on a journey and publish as many suggestions for solutions to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict as possible . A status-quo situation allowed for the October 7 attack to take place . It 's time for us all to put on our thinking caps and discuss how we can move forward from here . If you have any suggested strategies , plans , or solutions , I would love for you to email me at zvika@jpost.com 
@@119112456 <h> KAN are not the enemy : Ministers acting against Israel 's democratic character - opinion <h> These initiatives illustrate how some ministers have forgotten what is supposed to happen in a democracy -- ideas are not meant to be controlled . <p> TRANSPORTATION MINISTER Miri Regev once stated : ' What is a public broadcaster worht if we can not control it ? ' ( photo credit : Chaim Goldberg/Flash90 ) <p> It is as if government ministers forgot who the real enemy is based on some of their recent actions . It is as if their greatest adversary is not the terrorist organization Hamas or Iran but rather Israel 's democratic character . <p> Here are just a handful of recent examples : At the end of November , a bill to stop government funding of the state 's KAN public broadcaster passed a preliminary reading in the Knesset . On Sunday , during the weekly cabinet meeting , ministers approved the allocation of NIS 2 million to Deputy Minister Avi Maoz 's " education transparency system , " which is meant to regulate what content schools can offer their students . <p> And then there is Culture Minister Miki Zohar , who asked the Finance Ministry this week to stop funding to the Tel Aviv Cinematheque for showing some films last weekend that he claimed were " extremist " and opposed the State of Israel . He also asked to stop funding for Tel Aviv 's renowned Batsheva Dance Company after a recent performance included the waving of three Palestinian flags . <p> All of this comes on the heels of the government 's decision to sanction Haaretz and stop all state advertising in the newspaper due to the genuinely inexcusable remarks by the paper 's publisher at a conference in London . <p> It is legitimate to believe that a government should not fund activities that it believes undermine the state , but this is more than just about money ; it is a deliberate attempt by government ministers to silence dissenting opinions and ideas . Culture and Sports Minister Miki Zohar attends a Knesset session , March 6 , 2023. ( credit : MARC ISRAEL SELLEM/THE JERUSALEM POST ) <p> If a dance company dares to display a Palestinian flag during a performance , the solution is simple : cut off funding . If a public broadcaster can not be controlled , shut it down . If a newspaper publisher makes remarks that are perceived as objectionable , boycott it . The logic is disturbingly clear . <p> Transportation Minister Miri Regev gave insight into this mindset a few years ago when , during a ministerial meeting , she asked : " What value is there to a public broadcaster if we can not control it ? " To Regev and current Communications Minister Shlomo Karhi , the creation of quality content is irrelevant . What truly matters is the power to control ideas . If they can not control the messages being broadcasted , then the broadcaster itself loses its value . <p> What Maoz is trying to do is even more troubling . He wants to control what schools or regional councils are able to teach children . A known and vocal opponent of LGBT rights , Maoz has already openly declared what he wants to do . <p> In 2021 , his Noam party said that it will amend a government decision to increase the participation of women in the workplace . Such moves , he said , needed to be overturned to " prevent foreign anti-Israeli actors from infiltrating Israel 's public systems . " <h> Control over ideas <p> THIS IS not just about control over money . It is about control over ideas , although only ideas that this government does not like . Haredi ( ultra-Orthodox ) ideas and calls not to serve in the IDF are legitimate , and the rabbis who openly order their students not to serve in the military and not to integrate into Israeli society can continue . <p> Those rabbis and their institutions can keep receiving hundreds of millions of shekels , even though they are actively undermining the nation 's security in a way that is far more dangerous than any number of flags Batsheva dancers might wave during a performance . <p> And then there is , of course , Justice Minister Yariv Levin , whose obsessive campaign to dismantle Israel 's judicial independence takes the form of a continued effort to undermine any form of independent thinking within the justice system . If he or the government can not control the appointment of Supreme Court justices , then they will simply not be appointed as he refuses to do it . <p> Now , with the court having ordered him to reconvene the Judicial Selection Committee , Levin has announced plans to revive the judicial overhaul of 2023 -- a plan that divided the nation , weakened the state , and played a direct role in the tragic events of October 7 . A war still ongoing in Gaza ? Who cares ? A hundred hostages still held by Hamas ? Not of importance . All Levin cares about is the control he can obtain . <p> Crazy would be an easy way to explain what is happening , but dangerous is more accurate . We already saw what happened the last time Levin tried to bulldoze his controversial legislation through the Knesset against the will of most of the people and while refusing to compromise . <p> In what world does it make sense to do this again at a time when our soldiers are still fighting ? When many of our sons are still behind enemy lines ? <p> None of this should be happening right now -- not the judicial overhaul , the closure of KAN , the cancellation of funding to Batsheva and the cinematheque , or the establishment of Maoz 's education watchdog . <p> The reason it all is , though , is because the government wants to continue deflecting criticism from itself . It refuses to investigate the failures that led to October 7 and be held accountable . As one Likud lawmaker said this week -- " A state commission of inquiry ? Forget about it . It will not happen . " <p> In other words , what these ministers do is beyond any criticism or accountability . They believe that they have immunity and protection . The fact that these initiatives are moving forward during a time of war is deeply worrying . But in today 's Israel , it is not enough to be concerned . <p> These initiatives illustrate how some ministers have forgotten what is supposed to happen in a democracy -- ideas are not meant to be controlled . They are meant to be nurtured and allowed to flourish . And always remember one important part of this -- today it is " their " ideas that the government wants to stifle ; tomorrow it may be " yours . " <p> The writer is a senior fellow at the Jewish People Policy Institute and a former editor-in-chief of The Jerusalem Post . 
@@119112457 <h> MIDDLE ISRAEL : After this war 's fighters return from the front , they will produce a new political leadership that will salute , reward , and reconcile those who serve , contribute , and sacrifice . <p> GERMANS TAKE part in a counter-protest against a right-wing demonstration in Berlin , on December 14. ( photo credit : Christian Mang/Reuters ) <p> Like a pod of beached whales , the four democratic powers ' leaders committed political suicide one after the other , raising questions about the ailments , and longevity , of the free world . <p> This week , German Chancellor Olaf Scholz called a no-confidence vote in his own government , thus triggering a snap election in which he is expected to be trounced . <p> That was five months after US President Joe Biden imposed on the Democratic Party a successor who soon led it to decisive defeat . One month before that , French President Emmanuel Macron called a snap election that produced a parliament of extremists from both Right and Left that soon unseated the Fifth Republic 's shortest-serving prime minister , its fourth in one year . <p> And hardly three weeks before Macron 's reckless gamble , British prime minister Rishi Sunak called a snap election in which his party , the Tories , was handed its worst-ever defeat . <p> Underlying these different settings was one ailment that plagues most of the free world , including Israel : The political Center is under attack , and losing . <p> French President Emmanuel Macron gestures as he speaks during an international humanitarian conference for civilians in Gaza , at the Elysee Presidential Palace , in Paris , France , on November 9 , 2023. ( credit : LUDOVIC MARIN/POOL VIA REUTERS ) THE BRITISH Center was shaken by the 2016 Brexit referendum . Having been decided by a narrow , 51.9% majority , the poll both reflected and deepened the political Center 's cracks . Suddenly confused , Britain 's democracy then appointed six prime ministers in eight years . <p> The British did ultimately pass power from the Tories to Labour and thus kept intact their historic political Center , at least nominally . That 's not what happened in France , where the historic Center 's two halves have been floored by radicals from the political spectrum 's opposite ends . <p> Being the agents of chaos that they are , the ultra-nationalist Marine Le Pen and the neo-Marxist Jean-Luc Melenchon joined hands to derail France 's budget and force prime minister Michel Barnier 's departure . The populist energy at play is such that whatever happens next , there is no chance France 's stagnant economy will get the painful medications its ailments demand . <p> The German situation is not quite as chaotic , but the Center-Left 's failure to produce stability since its succession three years ago of the Center-Right is clearly about something larger than the natural transfer of power between the political Center 's rival halves . Underlying this political degeneration is the ascendant Alternative for Germany ( AfD ) , the far-right party that is steadily emerging as Germany 's second-largest political force . <p> Postwar Germany 's economic miracle is fading . Caught unprepared by Chinese competition 's cheap labor and steadily improving quality , Germany 's fabled auto industry is now laying off tens of thousands of workers . That makes many Germans feel profoundly insecure , but even more unsettling is recent years ' influx of immigrants , including some one million Syrian refugees last decade and a similar wave of Ukrainians this decade . <p> Immigration , and other challenges to identity , whether real or perceived , are also what fed the Brexit vote and the French Center 's collapse . Donald Trump 's zenith is similarly fed by fear of immigrants , as well as suspicion of the outer world , and disdain for the elites ' alleged plot to deprive the masses of their identity , security , and wealth . <p> Now , as Trump 's second term approaches , no one knows what he has in store for American democracy and how that will radiate across the free world . Chances are that what happened so far on both sides of the Atlantic , from Brexit to the storming of the Capitol , will have been but a prelude to much more dramatic events that will test the free world 's moral convictions and political will . <h> The crisis of the Israeli Center <p> In Israel , the Center 's political will , though embattled , is intact and set to resurge . <p> ON THE face of it , the crisis of the Israeli Center is part of the crisis of Western democracy : <p> National Security Minister Itamar Ben-Gvir 's Otzma Yehudit is the local version of Germany 's AfD ; his vote Monday against his own government 's budget is a version of what Le Pen just did in France , and Likud 's war on the judiciary is a version of Trump 's saber dance with his own country 's courts . <p> Well , that 's all true , but the Israeli Center 's crisis is different . <p> First , Israel 's economy is not structurally ill . The sources of Israel 's wealth , from technology and farming to tourism and gas , are not threatened by China or any other cheap-labor competitor . That is why the shekel endured very expensive war costs , and in fact appreciated more than 5% , from 3.85 to the dollar when the war broke out to 3.59 this week . <p> Second , Israel does not have an immigration crisis because the immigrants it absorbs are mostly Jews and their relations . <p> Third , Israel has a broad consensus . The politicians that sprawl between Avigdor Liberman on the Right and Yair Golan on the Left , and between opposition leader Yair Lapid and Defense Minister Israel Katz , actually agree on most crucial issues and have also worked well together in the past . <p> Fourth , the people in the field share even more , as the past 14 months have made plain . Unlike American and European citizenries , who have not fought together for anything since 1945 , Israel 's citizens sure have -- vastly and intensely . <p> Indeed , the Israeli Center is challenged not by any social undercurrent but by one man , a leader who struck a pact with those who defy the consensus by shunning everyone else 's war and seeking to etch their draft dodging in constitutional stone . <p> This , and this only , is what challenges the Israeli Center , and it can only last that long . Ultimately , after this war 's fighters return from the front and digest what they have been made to endure , they will produce a new political leadership , one that will salute , reward , and reconcile those who serve , contribute , and sacrifice -- and sideline those who do n't . <p> As for Germany , France , America , and the rest of the West 's ailing democracies -- God help them . <p> www.MiddleIsrael.net <p> The writer , a Hartman Institute fellow , is the author of the bestselling Mitzad Ha'ivelet Ha'yehudi ( The Jewish March of Folly , Yediot Sefarim , 2019 ) , a revisionist history of the Jewish people 's political leadership . 
@@119112458 <h> My Word : Wide awake in a war <h> Is IDF service suitable for every single young haredi man ? No . But there can no longer be an excuse for mass exemptions . <p> IDF SOLDIERS take part in an army stretcher drill . Israel 's population also needs to carry its share of the burden. ( photo credit : MOSHE SHAI/FLASH90 ) <p> It was a few words but a big concept . Israeli journalist Kalman Liebskind coined more than a phrase last week ; he summed up an existential Israeli condition . <p> Speaking at a conference sponsored by Makor Rishon and Bnei Akiva yeshivot and ulpanot , Liebskind declared that " Israeli society can be divided into those who sleep peacefully and those who ca n't sleep at all . " <p> I gave his words some thought in the early hours of the morning . I 'm in the " ca n't sleep " brigade , the proud but concerned mother of a combat soldier reservist . There are those who count sheep and doze off and those who count the number of days of service -- which even for a reservist stretches into the hundreds -- and it keeps them awake . <p> It was n't the first time Liebskind , a member of the National Religious community , had used the phrase . It appeared in his Maariv column in November , but this time there was a major difference -- Liebskind was n't referring only to the haredi ( ultra-Orthodox ) society , which largely refuses to serve in the army , but to the country 's leading politicians , including Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , and influential journalists . National Religious Broadcasters 2022 ( credit : TWITTER SCREENSHOT ) <p> " We have had a tendency , for a long time , to divide Israeli society into different divisions . The most well-known division -- and sometimes the correct one -- is in relation to Prime Minister Netanyahu : yes Bibi or no Bibi . <p> " There are also other divisions , such as Right and Left , religious and secular , and more , " Liebskind said . " What divides Israeli society in the last year and two months is the question of who sleeps at night . There is a group that does not sleep , and a group that sleeps well . Most of our press sleeps well at night because a large majority of our journalists , in general , do not have a son in Lebanon or a son in Jabalya . " <p> Netanyahu , who is obviously often called on to work in the middle of the night , served in an elite unit . In 1976 , he lost his brother Yoni in Operation Entebbe -- one of the most daring hostage rescue operations in history . But , as Liebskind opined , Netanyahu does not stay awake wondering whether his sons are in danger , nor should anyone belittle the sleep problems of parents of soldiers serving in places other than Lebanon and Gaza . <p> Liebskind , whose nephew fell in battle in Gaza and who has many relatives and friends serving in the IDF , made his remarks following a particularly combative press conference ahead of Netanyahu 's taking to the witness stand in the many court cases against him . <p> Seven soldiers had fallen that day , but the focus of media attention returned to the government 's proposed judicial reform . <h> Pre-October 7 draft refusal <p> SHORTLY AFTER Liebskind 's remarks hit public awareness , I was given more food for thought for my sleepless nights . Last Saturday , speaking at an event in Beersheba , former state attorney Moshe Lador invoked a pre-October 7 argument over refusal to serve in the IDF as a response to the judicial reform . <p> He declared : " Pilots who have completed their compulsory service and now serve on a voluntary basis are not only allowed but , in my opinion , are obligated to say , ' If that 's the country you 're striving for and are going to create through force and bullying , and are going to be the dictators of , I wo n't enter the cockpit and fly this plane because I do n't have to . ' " <p> His comments met with condemnation across the broad political spectrum -- from those who sleep and those who do n't . Lador should know better than to drag the IDF back into the political discourse . Pilots and other members of elite forces who declared a strike of the political kind during the turmoil of 2023 must decide whether they 're going to serve -- which means following orders from the government to the IDF -- or not . <p> Lador is not the only former senior figure to try to revive the nightmare chaos that played a role in weakening the country ahead of the October 7 , 2023 , Hamas invasion and mega-atrocity . Former prime minister Ehud Barak has renewed talk of " a civil war . " <p> And former defense minister Moshe ( Bogie ) Ya'alon will stop at nothing to attack Netanyahu 's government , going so far as to claim ( without basis ) that this right-wing government is committing ethnic cleansing in Gaza . He might as well submit a list of the loved ones of the sleep-deprived directly to the international courts in The Hague . <p> It should keep us all awake that these people reached such high positions in the first place . <p> AND AS if we did n't have enough to worry about , the extremism within the haredi sector also raised its head again . At the beginning of the war , I found myself in the midst of a demonstration of zealots from the Peleg Yerushalmi sect , who were blocking a main road in Jerusalem while chanting : " We 'll die and not draft . " My response was admirably restrained , given my lack of sleep and the reason for it . <p> Almost farcically , a recent social media campaign complained that haredim ca n't sleep at night for fear someone will knock on the door and arrest them for draft dodging . Since few haredim use social media , the campaign was obviously aimed at the rest of us . And " insensitive " would be too polite a word to describe it . The phrase " a knock on the door " means only one thing in Israeli society : that an army representative has come to inform a family of the death of a loved one . <p> Earlier this month , former Sephardi chief rabbi Yitzhak Yosef told yeshiva students : " If a draft notice arrives , tear it up . Do you have a toilet at home ? Flush it down . " Apparently , that 's not the lowest he can go . Last week , Yosef , a spiritual leader of the Shas party , said , " Even if one is idle i.e. , not studying Torah , he is forbidden to join the army . " <p> Shas founder Arye Deri spoke of relatives " who went into the army wearing a kippah and came out not wearing a kippah . " Public consultant Binyamin Lachkar posted on X in response : " Dear Arye , there are those who go in the army and do n't come back at all . " He correctly pointed out that if the haredi leadership does n't trust its students to remain religious , the problem lies in their education , not the army . <p> The IDF has gone to great lengths to prepare a framework for Orthodox and ultra-Orthodox soldiers . I know of one soldier who went in with a kippah and beard and came out with impressively long sidelocks . <p> Is IDF service suitable for every single young haredi man ? No . But there can no longer be an excuse for mass exemptions . As Liebskind wrote in November : " Imagine a burning apartment building where one neighbor brings a fire extinguisher , another runs with a bucket , a third sprays water with a hose , but the neighbor in apartment 13 on the fourth floor just sits and explains why he ca n't help . Is that a neighbor anyone would want to have ? " <p> I am in favor of everyone , including ultra-Orthodox and Arab citizens , doing some kind of national service . Those who ca n't serve in the IDF should serve in a civil framework , but more than 800 soldiers have fallen since October 7 , 2023 , and some 12,000 have been wounded in combat . We need reinforcements . Prayers need to be backed up by active service . <p> My colleague Herb Keinon -- who has had his unfair share of sleepless nights -- made an eloquent plea for unity this week . <p> " ... it 's as if the war were over , the hostages were all home , Iran was no longer a threat , all the Israelis displaced from their communities were back in their homes , the economy was humming along , and Israel did not have to refurbish its standing in the international community , " Keinon wrote . <p> " What Israel needs is a compromise , and finding one -- finding a way to appoint a chief justice for the Supreme Court and three new Supreme Court judges -- should not be beyond the capacity of a nation that dismantled the Syrian military in 48 hours and incapacitated much of Hezbollah with exploding beepers and walkie-talkies in two days . " <p> The country needs to pull itself together . Reject the polarization and politicization . To use the phrase popular before the sleep analogy caught on , people from all sectors need " to get under the stretcher " -- lehikanes mitachat la'alunka -- and carry their share of the burden as in a military stretcher drill . <p> Then we can all have a good night 's sleep and help turn sweet dreams into reality . 
@@119112459 <p> Originally from Atlantic City , New Jersey , Billig moved to Caesarea with his family in 1986 at the age of 10 . After high school , he served as a medic in the IDF 's Paratroopers Brigade before relocating to the United States . <p> There , he attended Rutgers University for two years before earning a BS from Columbia University in New York . He went on to obtain his MD from the Sackler School of Medicine at Tel Aviv University ( since renamed the Tel Aviv University School of Medicine ) . Following medical school , he completed a plastic surgery residency at Hadassah-University Medical Center , Ein Kerem , and later specialized in adult craniofacial surgery through a fellowship with Dr. Jeffrey Fialkov at Sunnybrook Hospital in Toronto , Canada . <p> Currently , Billig treats patients at Hadassah 's two medical campuses in Jerusalem and at its facility in Beit Shemesh , focusing on facial reconstructive surgery . Alan Billig ( L ) is seen receiving the 2024 Best Paper Award from the ' Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery ' journal . ( credit : Courtesy PRS ) <p> The Magazine recently spoke with him at a restaurant in Jerusalem . <h> For starters , why are you called a plastic surgeon ? <p> The term ' plastic ' originates from the Greek word plasticos , meaning ' to mold or shape . ' That 's essentially what we do -- molding and shaping -- in both reconstructive and cosmetic/aesthetic procedures . <h> From your experience in Israel , what are women generally looking for when they come for cosmetic surgery ? <p> Basically , they want to look better and are often unhappy with aspects of their face . My oldest patient , an 80-year-old woman , came in for a facelift . Other common requests include nose jobs , tummy tucks , and breast augmentation . Popular nonsurgical treatments include facial injectables ( such as **28;1564;TOOLONG ) , which are interventions that can be done in the physician 's office , sometimes even without anesthetic cream . A patient can be in and out within 30 minutes . <p> In recent years , we 're seeing younger and younger women -- sometimes even teenagers -- come in for facial injectables . They seem to desire more voluminous lips and better-looking noses . <h> Since October 7 , Hadassah Medical Center has played a huge role in treating wounded soldiers . Can you give me an example ? <p> Working with the ' tool set ' I acquired from Dr. Fialkov in Toronto , we had to reconstruct the skull and scalp of a soldier whose ear was cut off when a bullet damaged the bony skull of his head . After we completed the procedure , the soldier thanked us and said : ' Now I can get back to the battlefield . ' <h> What 's the connection between Dr. Fialkov and Hadassah Medical Center ? <p> On a personal level , Dr. Fialkov is my mentor . Everything I do today in the operating room and everything I 'll do in the future is thanks to Dr. Fialkov . He directed my fellowship training in Toronto , and he continues to work with me and our Hadassah staff today . <p> Since 2022 and into the Gaza war , he 's come to our hospital four times to help out wherever needed , as many of our doctors have been called to military service . His guidance in complex surgeries involving the head , orbit , and jaw have been invaluable . <h> The title of your award-winning manuscript is ' Are we overoperating on isolated orbital floor fractures ? ' In simple terms , what are orbital floor fractures ? And what 's the answer to your question ? Are surgeons overoperating ? <p> The eyeball sits in a cavity of the skull called the orbit , with walls , a ceiling , and a floor . Until recently , the surgical guidelines suggested that if the floor was broken , you should go into surgery to fix the problem . If you do n't , the eyeball will likely sink into the broken floor . <p> Our data showed that the likelihood of that happening sinking eyeball is extremely low , and some routine surgeries might be completely unnecessary . <h> Is there a moral aspect to some decisions made in the hospital ? <p> Yes . For instance , if a wounded terrorist is brought in for surgery , is a surgeon obligated to operate ? And in triage -- when medical professionals determine the order of priority for providing treatment -- should it matter if one of the patients in line is a terrorist ? <h> Can any skills from the operating room spill over into your daily life ? <p> Sewing . Whether in surgery or in sewing my own pants , it 's about bringing things together as they should be and making sure they stay as long as they need to . <h> Your father was a doctor . Did you start thinking about being a doctor when you were a child ? <p> No . When I finished the army , I still was n't sure what I wanted to be . At Rutgers , I thought about becoming an architect . It was only after graduating from Columbia that I decided on medicine . <h> You could be making a lot more money in the US . What keeps you here ? <p> I feel a sense of purpose here . I feel that I 'm part of a greater plan , even though I do n't know the exact nature of this plan . I feel that I 'm doing the right thing by being here , working here , and helping here . I think it 's a great place to be . <p> Surgeons are sometimes seen as cold . Yet in the recommendations from your patients , they give you the highest marks for your surgical expertise and repeatedly mention your empathy -- specifically , that you are kind , caring , patient , gentle , and attentive . Also , that you 're funny . Are these qualities that you learned , or are they in your genes ? <p> As we say in Hebrew : Gam v'gam . Both . <h> I 've never asked this question in 17 years of interviews , but here it is : Are you open to the idea of being fixed up ? 
@@119139253 <p> In fact , the former States Department official -- who served as a deputy political counsellor at the United States Office of Palestinian Affairs -- described his experience as a diplomat in Jerusalem as a humiliation . <p> " It 's frankly embarrassing ... to see just the way we give in to the demands of the Israeli government and continue to support what the Israeli government is doing even though we know it 's wrong , " Casey told Al Jazeera . <p> " And I 've not seen that in any other country that I 've served in . " <p> After four years in his post , Casey resigned in July over what he described as the US government 's unwavering support for Israel despite its devastating military campaign in the Gaza Strip . <p> His resignation -- first reported by The Guardian newspaper this week -- is the latest by a US official angered over President Joe Biden 's staunch military and diplomatic backing for Israel since the Gaza war began in October 2023 . <p> The conflict has plunged Gaza into a dire humanitarian crisis , and United Nations experts and leading human rights groups have accused the Israeli military of committing war crimes , including genocide . <p> The US has said it is working to secure a ceasefire and the release of captives held in Gaza . It also said it has pushed Israel to minimise civilian casualties in its military operations . <p> But Biden has refused to use American assistance to Israel as leverage to end the war , rebuffing calls to suspend US weapons transfers to the top ally . <p> The US provides Israel with at least $3.8bn in military assistance annually , and researchers at Brown University recently estimated that the Biden administration provided an additional $17.9bn since the start of the Gaza war . <p> In an interview with Al Jazeera on Saturday , Casey said his job in Jerusalem was primarily focused on writing about the situation in Gaza , from humanitarian concerns to economic and political issues . <p> He said the US government is aware of the dire conditions in the territory , including the widespread casualties and lack of humanitarian assistance . " And yet we continue to pursue these policies and support what the Israeli military is doing there , " he said . <p> " They receive all of our reporting , they have everything we write , and they just disregard it . " <p> Asked why US government policy is what it is , Casey said he believes part of the reason is that " there 's no concern for Palestinian suffering " . <p> Advertisement <p> " We ignore Palestinian suffering . We accept the Israeli government narrative of events even if we know it 's not true , and we really pursue Israel 's interests . We do n't pursue our own interests , " he told Al Jazeera . <p> " And that was what pushed me out the door at the end . " <p> The State Department did not immediately respond to Al Jazeera 's request for comment on Saturday . 
@@119139254 <h> US says it conducted strikes against Houthi targets in Yemen 's capital <p> US strikes on Sanaa come amid recent series of attacks between the Yemeni rebel group and the Israeli military . <p> Smoke rises from the site of strikes in Sanaa , Yemen , on October 4 , 2024 Khaled Abdullah/Reuters <p> Published On 21 Dec 202421 Dec 2024 <p> The United States military says it has conducted air strikes against targets linked to the Houthi rebels in Yemen 's capital Sanaa , including a missile storage facility and a " command-and-control " site . <p> US Central Command ( CENTCOM ) , which oversees US Army operations in the Middle East , said on Saturday that the strikes aimed " to disrupt and degrade Houthi operations " . <p> The Iran-allied group has previously launched attacks on US Navy and merchant vessels in the Red Sea , Bab al-Mandeb and Gulf of Aden , CENTCOM said in a social media post . <p> The US strikes come amid an uptick in attacks between the Houthis and the Israeli military this week . <p> Israel bombed several targets in Yemen on Thursday , including power stations near Sanaa . <p> The Israeli bombardment , which killed at least nine people , followed a missile launch by the Houthis , formally known as Ansar Allah , towards Tel Aviv . <p> Local emergency services said 16 people were " mildly injured " in the incident . <p> The Houthis have been targeting Israel with drones and missiles to pressure the US ally to end its war in Gaza , where the US-backed Israeli military has killed more than 45,000 people . <p> The Yemeni rebels also have been carrying out attacks on shipping lanes in and around the Red Sea as part of the same campaign , which they say is in support of Palestinians . <p> For months , the US and the United Kingdom have been bombing Houthi targets in Yemen in response to the Red Sea assaults . <p> The administration of US President Joe Biden has also imposed sanctions against the Houthis . <p> On Thursday , Washington sanctioned the governor of the central bank in Houthi-controlled Sanaa and several Houthi officials and associated companies , accusing them of helping the group acquire " dual-use and weapons components " . 
@@119149746 <h> He attacked multiple local businesses at night in June including a McDonald 's in Maitland and Starbucks in Orlando , Winter Park and Daytona Beach Shores , according to records <h> Share this : <p> Hashem Younis Hashem Hnaihen , 44 , plead guilty Friday to vandalizing a solar energy facility and threatening to bomb businesses that support Israel , according to the U.S. Department of Justice . ( Courtesy of Seminole County Jail ) <p> A Jordanian citizen living in Orlando pleaded guilty Friday to vandalizing a solar energy facility and threatening to bomb businesses that support Israel , the Department of Justice disclosed in a high-profile announcement . <p> Hashem Younis Hashem Hnaihen , 44 , pleaded to four counts of threatening to use explosives and one count of destruction of an energy facility , the DOJ news release says . <p> Hnaihen faces up to 60 years in prison and has agreed to pay full restitution to his victims , according to the release . His sentencing is scheduled for April 16 at the federal courthouse in Orlando , court records show . He is currently in custody at the Seminole County Jail . <p> Court records show state he donned a mask and attacked multiple local businesses at night in June , including a McDonald 's in Maitland and Starbucks in Orlando , Winter Park and Daytona Beach Shores , smashing in their front doors and windows and leaving behind threatening letters . <p> He was arrested in July by the Orange County Sheriff 's Office after a multiagency investigation by the agency and FBI with help from the Orlando , Maitland and Winter Park police departments , an August news release from DOJ said . He was caught because of fingerprints he left behind on the letters , his cellphone location data showing him at the businesses and surveillance footage capturing his work truck in the vicinity of the businesses . <p> The arrest came at a time of heightened concerns about anti-Semitic and anti-Palestinian threats in the U.S. driven in part by conflict in the Middle East . The nation 's two highest-ranking law enforcement officials weighed in on the plea , conveying the gravity of Hnaihen 's actions and threats . <p> " The Justice Department will fiercely protect the right of every person to peacefully express their opinions , beliefs , and ideas , but we have no tolerance for acts and threats of hate-fueled violence that create lasting fear , " Attorney General Merrick Garland said in the release . <p> FBI Director Christopher Wray said in the release , " Violence , destruction of property , and threats are simply unacceptable . The FBI will work with our partners to pursue and hold accountable those who commit illegal and destructive acts and cause our citizens to fear for their safety and livelihoods . " <p> Hnaihen said in the letters addressed to the U.S government and left at businesses he vandalized that he would " destroy or explode everything here in whole America . Especially the companies and factories that support the racist state of Israel . " He demanded Biden stop supporting the Israeli government under Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , stop what he called the genocide in Gaza and allow humanitarian aid into it , court records show . <p> " You trade in our democracy and use our money to ignite the wars and kill innocent people all over the world in order to steal their natural wealth such as oil , gold and many others , as happened in Afghanistan , Iraq , Lebia ... and it is currently happening in Gaza and Sudan , " one letter stated according to court records . <p> He left similar letters at a Florida Power &amp; Light solar power facility in Wedgefield he attacked twice , in May and June , where he spent hours " systematically destroying solar panel arrays " during the second break-in , authorities said . He smashed panels , cut wires and targeted critical electronic equipment , causing nearly $500,000 in damage , the release said . He also left similar letters at an AmeriGas industrial propane distribution depot in Orlando which he broke into in July causing evacuation , records show . 
@@119170250 <h> Winter is hitting Gaza and many Palestinians have little protection from the cold <p> Reda Abu Zarada , 50 , displaced from Jabaliya in nothern Gaza , sits by a fire with her grandchildren at a camp by the sea in Khan Younis , Gaza Strip , on Dec. 19 . Abdel Kareem Hana/Associated Press <p> KHAN YOUNIS , Gaza Strip ( AP ) -- Winter is hitting the Gaza Strip and many of the nearly 2 million Palestinians displaced by the devastating 14-month war with Israel are struggling to protect themselves from the wind , cold and rain . <p> There is a shortage of blankets and warm clothing , little wood for fires , and the tents and patched-together tarps families are living in have grown increasingly threadbare after months of heavy use , according to aid workers and residents . <p> Shadia Aiyada , who was displaced from the southern city of Rafah to the coastal area of Muwasi , has only one blanket and a hot water bottle to keep her eight children from shivering inside their fragile tent . <p> " We get scared every time we learn from the weather forecast that rainy and windy days are coming up because our tents are lifted with the wind . We fear that strong windy weather would knock out our tents one day while we 're inside , " she said . <p> With nighttime temperatures that can drop into the 40s ( the mid-to-high single digits Celsius ) , Aiyada fears that her kids will get sick without warm clothing . <p> Advertisement <p> When they fled their home , her children only had their summer clothes , she said . They have been forced to borrow some from relatives and friends to keep warm . <p> The United Nations warns of people living in precarious makeshift shelters that might not survive the winter . At least 945,000 people need winterization supplies , which have become prohibitively expensive in Gaza , the U.N . said in an update Tuesday . The U.N . also fears infectious disease , which spiked last winter , will climb again amid rising malnutrition . <p> The U.N . Agency for Palestinian Refugees , known as UNRWA , has been planning all year for winter in Gaza , but the aid it was able to get into the territory is " not even close to being enough for people , " said Louise Wateridge , an agency spokeswoman . <p> UNRWA distributed 6,000 tents over the past four weeks in northern Gaza but was unable to get them to other parts of the Strip , including areas where there has been fighting . About 22,000 tents have been stuck in Jordan and 600,000 blankets and 33 truckloads of mattresses have been sitting in Egypt since the summer because the agency does n't have Israeli approval or a safe route to bring them into Gaza and because it had to prioritize desperately needed food aid , Wateridge said . <p> Advertisement <p> Many of the mattresses and blankets have since been looted or destroyed by the weather and rodents , she said . <p> The International Rescue Committee is struggling to bring in children 's winter clothing because there " are a lot of approvals to get from relevant authorities , " said Dionne Wong , the organization 's deputy director of programs for the occupied Palestinian territories . <p> " The ability for Palestinians to prepare for winter is essentially very limited , " Wong said . <p> The Israeli government agency responsible for coordinating aid shipments into Gaza said in a statement that Israel has worked for months with international organizations to prepare Gaza for the winter , including facilitating the shipment of heaters , warm clothing , tents and blankets into the territory . <p> More than 45,000 Palestinians have been killed in the war in Gaza , according to the Gaza Health Ministry . The ministry 's count does n't distinguish between civilians and combatants , but it has said more than half of the fatalities are women and children . The Israeli military says it has killed more than 17,000 militants , without providing evidence . <p> The war was sparked by Hamas ' October 2023 attack on southern Israel , where the militant group killed 1,200 people and took 250 hostages in Gaza . <p> Negotiators say Israel and Hamas are inching toward a ceasefire deal , which would include a surge in aid into the territory . <p> For now , the winter clothing for sale in Gaza 's markets is far too expensive for most people to afford , residents and aid workers said . <p> Reda Abu Zarada , 50 , who was displaced from northern Gaza with her family , said the adults sleep with the children in their arms to keep them warm inside their tent . <p> Advertisement <p> " Rats walk on us at night because we do n't have doors and tents are torn . The blankets do n't keep us warm . We feel frost coming out from the ground . We wake up freezing in the morning , " she said . " I 'm scared of waking up one day to find one of the children frozen to death . " <p> On Thursday night , she fought through knee pain exacerbated by cold weather to fry zucchini over a fire made of paper and cardboard scraps outside their tent . She hoped the small meal would warm the children before bed . <p> Omar Shabet , who is displaced from Gaza City and staying with his three children , feared that lighting a fire outside his tent would make his family a target for Israeli warplanes . <p> " We go inside our tents after sunset and do n't go out because it is very cold and it gets colder by midnight , " he said . " My 7-year-old daughter almost cries at night because of how cold she is. " 
@@119170547 <h> Luigi Mangione , UnitedHealthcare , and the American Health Care Scam <p> Suffering , debt , and death are normal outcomes for the scam of American health finance . Here 's the way out <p> December 22 , 2024 <p> UnitedHealthcare signage is displayed on an office building in Phoenix , Arizona on July 19 , 2023 . PATRICK T. FALLON/AFP/Getty Images <p> A gun with three bullets ; one man dead on the pavement , one man in custody . From a distance , the death of Brian Thompson looks like any other in a uniquely violent America . But the circumstances surrounding his murder were unimaginable just two weeks ago : A reclusive gunman partially built a gun on the computer and assassinated the chairman of America 's most powerful health insurance company . As far as we can tell , the alleged shooter , Luigi Mangione , was radicalized neither by QAnon conspiracy theories nor by undercover federal agents , but by months of self-isolation following a spinal surgery that left him in chronic pain , against a health care system so fundamentally brutal that an unexpectedly large , atypically nonpartisan cohort of the population took to the internet to mock the victim . <p> It was an impolite reaction , with unusual savagery -- not even a moment for " thoughts and prayers " -- which has been examined to death over the past few weeks . In a December 17 YouGov/The Economist poll , Mangione 's net approval among respondents , while negative overall , is 15 points higher than that of Congress . He comes out positive or even among respondents 44 and younger . A former federal prosecutor said he 's " never seen an alleged murderer receive such sympathy . " Even fellow Italian-Americans rallied to Luigi 's aid : A pizza place a couple miles from Mangione 's high school put up a Luigi poster . <p> I can offer no new insight about how shocking the response to Thompson 's murder has been , or how thin the threshold is between the politesse of acceptable average American decorum and an ecstatic celebration of violence . I , personally , wish every family be spared the fate of the Thompsons . I also wish every family be spared the fate to which the bone-grinding machine that Brian Thompson sat atop condemns millions of others . So long as we tolerate the existence of health insurance for profit , no one will be spared . <h> Scam World <p> Fundamental to the experience of being an American is the constant suspicion that you 're being scammed . Some of those suspicions are internet-induced prodromal schizophrenia : Not every Home Depot parking lot is a human-trafficking Pok ? Stop ; tap water wo n't turn your kids trans . But Americans are constant targets . We are bombarded day and night by emails , phone calls , and text messages from people who want money from us under false ( or flimsy ) pretenses . The infrastructure of daily life has been ceded to Silicon Valley executives , who have mangled their indispensable products in order to make as much money for their shareholders as possible , even as this rot makes those products shittier . Throw on the TV to watch a basketball game with a friend and you 'll be Clockwork Orange 'd with dozens of advertisements for apps that exploit cutting-edge advancements in gambling psychology to create life-ruining addictions -- with to-the-hilt support from sports leagues , lawmakers , and universities . Even the genocide in Gaza has become fodder for Twitter and Bluesky scammers running fraudulent fundraisers -- possibly the most revolting con I 've ever encountered , and one which I now barely notice as I tune it out three or four times a day . <h> Editor 's picks <p> Nowhere is the scam woven more tightly into our cool national fabric than in health insurance . The arrangement of our health finance system is lethal and inordinately expensive . Here , alone among peer countries , sickness makes you poor , poverty makes you sick , and any fever , fall , or freak accident , nor matter how slight , can quickly become a ritual of humiliation , degradation , bankruptcy , or death . Few are spared and none are distant . Over 20 million Americans have started a GoFundMe crowdfunding campaign to address medical costs ; one in five American adults have donated to one . Only 12 percent of these campaigns reach their goals . We all know what happens to the losers : debt , if they 're lucky ; death , if they 're not . <p> Having insurance does not spare you from these horrors . Some of the worst health care horror stories you 'll ever hear come from people with health insurance . Yet without insurance , things can be even worse ; the same punishments somehow magnified . S ? ren Mau writes about the " mute compulsion " of capitalism : You got ta play the game or else you do n't eat . Health insurance works the same way . Get in the pit , and you might go bankrupt and your kid might die from cancer ; stay out , and you will go bankrupt ; your kid will die . <p> It is essential to the perpetuation of American society as it currently exists that we are trained to view this as the natural course of events . David Roth of Defector explained why in his reflection on the 2024 election . <p> " Everywhere , in every way , American culture works to prise people apart and keep them confused and worried and mean ; this is much easier to do when people think of themselves only as themselves , and not as part of any greater community or project , which is why America 's reactionaries have so dedicated themselves to tearing down or splitting up those kinds of communities and projects , " Roth writes . " This is a good way to keep people working and shopping and pliable , but it is also corrosive and lonely . " <p> In a vacuum , it is unsurprising for any American to go mad when confronted with this atrocity ; in the real world , we are made hopeless by the state-sponsored agreement that this quiet violence is the ordinary cost of doing business . Mangione 's manifesto -- or , at least , the one attributed to him -- describes a need to resolve the contradiction between what everyone knows and what everyone has to believe with lead and " brutal honesty . " <p> This is not a desirable arrangement , and the last serious attempt to reform American health finance , the Affordable Care Act , along with its subsequent decade of slapdash policy tweaks , failed to prevent the conditions that made this assassination possible . These tiny reforms , as titanic and final as they 're sold to us as , will continue to fail . The terrible mountain of bodies and its shadow of mass suffering are normal , expected outcomes for the American model of health finance . <p> There is no recourse in the existing health care system , and we are offered no vehicle for change in mainstream politics . What happened on December 4 was unique in that it was an inversion of the violence which undergirds our heath finance model . The only possible rearrangement of health finance in America that can prevent this continual onslaught of death is a single-payer health care system like Medicare for All . Absent a political movement , this murder will become nothing but a memento mori -- a meme around which distressingly online Zoomer dance clubs will throw occasional theme nights throughout the duration of Mangione 's trial , until we all forget about it and pay next year 's ever-higher premiums , angrier and poorer but submitting still to the extortion into which we have been born . <h> American Excellence <p> Shit is fucked up and bullshit . Part of the reason everyone and their maxed-out 401k is writing essays about The Scandalous Reaction to the Assassination is that frustration with American health finance has metastasized to an extent that modern political and media institutions are unable to taxonomize . Hating health insurance is no longer identifiable as a specifically left-wing position , which is scary to people who make their trade confidently telling you how the world works . We now live in the era of " Bailamos " -- nothing is forbidden anymore . <p> Based on the reaction to the assassination , the vibrant Medicare for All movement pre-2020 , and every interaction I 've ever had talking to people about their health care , I know you know you 're being fucked over . Let me explain how . <p> The fundamental tension of American health finance is this : It 's very expensive to take care of sick people , and it 's not profitable to pay for their health care . The American approach toward this problem has been a patchwork series of accidents , union struggles , government subsidies , and tax incentives that over 70 years developed in more-or-less unguided fits and bursts . This is n't controversial or secret ; all the C-levels making bank off the arrangement sit around looking at the State of Things , write " Wow , look at all these complicated problems ! " in The New York Times or wherever , then go home to sit surrounded by the tremendous piles of money they 've accumulated by their maintenance of the problems they lament . <p> Nobody ( or , at least , nobody normal ) can afford to pay for their own health care completely out-of-pocket . Thus the invention of insurance : Everyone puts a little bit into the pot ( this would be your insurance premium ) , and when it 's your turn to receive health care -- when you have a kid , or get bitten by a raccoon , or come down with lupus -- you take a share of the accumulated pile of money to pay for it ( or , in the United States , some of it ) . Not many people need health care at the same time , and for the people who do need it , can be very expensive . In a given year , 50 percent of medical expenses come from 5 percent of the population . The borders of this 5 percent are porous ; in much the same way that poverty works , some years you 're in need , and most years you are n't . <p> In America , we largely delegate the function of insurance to private , for-profit companies ( do n't let Blue Cross Blue Shield 's " not-for-profit " status fool you ) . Thing is , private companies really do n't want to pay for sick people 's health care -- it 's expensive , and spending a lot of money is a hard way to make a profit . Meanwhile , the price of care increases every year , totally unassociated with how much health care people receive . So insurers raise the price of premiums , and finagle little ways to saddle you with more and more of the cost : deductibles , copays , and claim denials . <p> In the 1960s , the government stepped in . Poor people ( who could n't afford premiums ) and elderly people ( who are generally much more expensive than younger people to insure , and therefore could n't afford their premiums either ) were dying uninsured . Horror story after horror story and protest after protest wielded by well-organized advocacy groups shocked the machinery of the state into action , leading to the creation of Medicare and Medicaid , which generally insure elderly and poor or disabled people respectively . Insurers were effectively spared the costs of insuring people who need health care -- an arrangement they found could only be improved with the introduction of privatized Medicare and Medicaid plans about 30 years later . Now , thanks to generous and easily gameable government subsidies , otherwise unprofitable patients can live up to their potential and be cash cows for private insurers , though privatized Medicare is becoming a slightly less tantalizing option as senior citizens begin actually using their insurance plans again following a lull during the height of the COVID pandemic . <p> You might see some pundit or another wriggle his pudgy little nose and point out that everyone getting mad about insurance is being irrational -- after all , UnitedHealthcare " only " turns a 6 percent profit ! They neglect to mention that 6 percent comes from $280 billion -- $16 billion we pay to one company alone that does n't go toward anyone 's health care . That 's not even counting the roughly 17 percent private insurers spend on administrative costs , about six times what Medicare spends on administration . Depending on how you measure it , between $500 billion and over $1 trillion of our total national health care expenditures went to administrative costs , largely generated by the card-shuffling between providers and insurers . <p> The CEOs of insurance companies will whine about how costs are increasing . They 're correct ! But the insurance industry altogether is n't really that upset . The amount of money they 're required to spend on health care ( their " Medical Loss Ratio , " or MLR ) is a fixed percentage of their total premium revenue , often 15 percent , and if costs keep going up , so too do premiums -- good news for your insurer , who now gets to keep 15 percent of $60 billion ( or whatever ) instead of 15 percent of $50 billion . <p> This is not meant to depict health care providers as blameless . There 's a lot of waste in health care . Prices are totally unmoored from costs . Two MRIs from the exact same MRI machine can have a 4.5x cost difference based on who 's paying for them . Pharmaceutical companies perform incredible sleight of hand to artificially extend monopolies on expensive drugs , and Congress for years has banned Medicare from negotiating lower drug prices . Sometimes there 's outright fraud , usually perpetrated on the most vulnerable patients -- 90 percent of hysterectomies are unnecessary . Doctors , human as any of us ( despite what they might like you to believe ) , often prescribe on faulty memory , professional superstition , and vibes , not current scientific evidence . Hospitals go to great lengths to make pricing completely opaque -- list prices are artificially inflated as a method of negotiating better prices from insurers , so uninsured patients are stuck with insane costs . Giant nonprofit megahospitals routinely hide information about financial assistance from eligible patients while paying their workers so little they have to open food banks for their own employees . The rot runs deep . <p> America 's private insurance network is supposed to be a counterweight to all this graft . It 's failed ; after 70 years , we must consider that perhaps it does n't want to succeed . Insurers focus on reducing the amount of health care people seek instead of taking on the prices at the core of the problem of health care spending . ( " It 's the prices , stupid , " quipped legendary health economist Uwe Reinhardt . ) Provider-payer squabbling is largely kayfabe : No matter what happens , the people making money keep making money , the overwhelming majority of it from the government , while individual workers or patients are left to suffer . <p> It 's hard to quantify how many people die because of our health care system alone , because it 's hard to distinguish un- or underinsurance from things like gun violence or overdoses within the gap between America 's excess mortality rate and those of peer countries . What we can quantify about the impacts of our health finance system on poverty is staggering : 44 percent of working-age Americans are either uninsured or underinsured , meaning they have insurance too expensive for them to use . KFF finds that 41 percent of American adults carry debt from medical or dental bills , while the Commonwealth Fund finds that 14 percent of adults under 65 have medical debt of over $2,000 . One in five adults with medical debt think they 'll never be able to pay it off . <p> Commonwealth found that nearly 60 percent of underinsured adults avoided seeking health care because they were afraid of the cost . Two-thirds of adults who avoided care because of cost said their problems had worsened because of it . Poverty has a stronger association with mortality than nearly any other cause around -- the only things that cause more deaths than poverty are smoking , cancer , and heart disease . <p> There 's no room for equivocation : Health care costs kill people . <h> Social Murder , Inc . <p> UnitedHealth Group , the parent company of Brian Thompson 's UnitedHealthcare and the fourth-largest corporation in America by revenue , was essentially designed in the great laboratory of the market to demonstrate how this all happens . STAT News has been on the beat for a long time , and this year Maureen Tkacik put the company in her crosshairs at the American Prospect . <p> Here are some of the tactics UHG and other health insurers use to game the system : <p> Upcoding : A significant portion of UHG 's revenue comes from Medicare Advantage , or its privatized Medicare plans . The government pays Medicare Advantage insurers a fixed subsidy per person to insure seniors , based on bids the insurers place in advance . Thing is , some seniors are naturally a lot more expensive than others . Given the option , UnitedHealth Group would insure only the seniors who do n't need their insurance so they could keep the entire subsidy for themselves . To bribe them into playing nice , the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services ( CMS ) pay an additional subsidy to insurers if their members have certain diagnoses that indicate they may be costlier patients : If CMS pays $1,000 per default senior per month , a senior with a diabetes diagnosis might come in at $1,200 or $1,500 . <p> Naturally , this means insurers are interested in getting as many seniors as many diagnoses as possible , regardless of whether they 're actually receiving treatment for them . In aggregate , this upcoding is forecast to cost the government up to $80 billion a year in fraudulent payments . UnitedHealthcare , which covers about a third of all Medicare Advantage enrollees nationwide , is one of the worst offenders , deploying an army of 90,000 physicians to squeeze as many possible diagnoses out of as many patients as possible . <p> Consolidation : One of the more distressing trends in health finance is an insane amount of vertical consolidation in the years following the Affordable Care Act . The distinction between " payer " and " provider , " once an easy heuristic for understanding where money goes and how , is being eroded as insurers buy health care companies and medical providers buy insurers . UnitedHealth Group , naturally , is leading the charge . This is ominous . One reason is " self-dealing . " Insurers can get around their regulated 80-85 percent MLR -- how much of their revenue they 're required to spend on health care -- by buying up hospitals and clinics and paying their own providers inflated prices . This means it looks like the insurer is spending a lot on health care , but ultimately they 're just passing the ball between one hand and the other . UHG is one of the worst offenders . Up to 40% of its revenue is from internal transactions . Colonoscopies , for example , are a traditional point of tension in insurance . Insurers are required to pay for them in full ( if they 're preventive ) , which leads to a lot of disputes about whether screenings are preventive or diagnostic ( diagnostic procedures punt the cost back to the patient ) . UHG found a great workaround : Just buy the gastroenterologists and pay them -- pay themselves -- three times what competitors pay other physicians . <p> Systematic claim denials : Much ado has been made about UnitedHealth using a machine learning algorithm to kick seniors out of rehab . In 2020 , UHG dropped $2.5 billion to acquire NaviHealth , whose nH Predict rehab care management software came under fire for kicking amputees and stroke victims out of nursing homes weeks or even months before their physicians said they were ready , well below Medicare 's own already-limited threshold for care . Sometimes NaviHealth 's assessments were made before a patient 's own physicians had examined them . A class action lawsuit against UnitedHealth alleges that the tool had a " 90 percent error rate . " UnitedHealth contracts nH Predict to other major Medicare Advantage insurers . <p> Nearly two centuries ago , Friedrich Engels coined the term " social murder " to describe how the living conditions that led to the premature deaths of British workers were , though occluded , not natural accidents but the product of aggregated political decisions in service of the normal function of the economy . The framework fits in America , too ; as much as one man shooting another is an act of killing , so too is the arrangement of companies , institutions , and incentives that result in poor men dying up to 15 years sooner than rich men , white people living five years longer than Black people , and an 8-year difference in life expectancies between poor and rich ZIP codes five or six miles apart . <p> Many have pointed to Mangione 's spirited Goodreads review of Industrial Society and Its Future -- better known as Ted Kaczynski 's " Unabomber Manifesto " -- as foreshadowing the assassination . Kaczynski argued that the technological developments of mass society inevitably dominate and restrict human autonomy and that the only paths available to preserve human freedom were revolution or withdrawal . In light of the " nursing home AI " scandal , it is tempting to draw a parallel between the American health finance system and the powers of the Industrial Revolution Kaczynski lamented : Both are domineering forces that relentlessly reorder humans around the whims of technology . <p> But that lets the people who put us here off the hook . Nobody 's put it better than epidemiologist and writer Abby Cartus . <p> " I think it matters whether we want to understand the health insurance industry and its evils as an autonomous technical behemoth , superficially at the level of algorithmic decisions , or whether we want to understand it as a way of organizing technological and economic resources , incentives , and choices given the political-economic structure of capitalism , " Cartus writes . She continues : " The former -- the story of autonomous technology -- strips away the industry 's guilt and ... misdirects attention that should be focused like a white-hot laser beam on the real problem : private , for-profit health care , and the thugs who administer it . " <p> Viewing the social murder of American health finance as some sort of uncontrolled , ambient force that , like a ghost or a dog , just does things arbitrarily , is to excuse the aggregate human decisions which create and maintain this condition . The wretched circumstance of health finance in America may not be intentional , but neither is it accidental . It emerges directly from its organization according to the sole principle of having to create shareholder value . <p> December 4 is n't how things are supposed to work . Executives are supposed to look down from atop the great murder machine , not get crushed under its weight . Judging by the rush of calls to personal security firms from the moneymaker class and the small army of cops New York City Mayor Eric Adams led to march Mangione to his arraignment , this sudden inversion scares the hell out of them . But violence -- the loud kind -- will inevitably erupt from an institution created and nourished by acts of violence . <p> Brian Thompson may not have pulled any triggers himself -- his friends describe " BT " as a decent man concerned with the state of American health care , God bless him ; are n't they all . As the executive of the most powerful private insurer in America , the core of the most powerful private medical entity in the world , he commanded an institution inseparable from the American machine of social murder . If all lives are equal , then all deaths are too . <p> Part of the reason the reaction to the shooting came as such a shock is that many people who tip poorly or write newspaper columns assumed the frustration about American health insurance was limited to the cranks and unwashed longhairs of the Medicare for All movement , which had been cauterized quickly and painfully after Joe Biden seized the Democratic nomination in 2020 . Policy decisions since have reflected this self-assurance , throwing yet more public money into the pit of for-profit companies : Among the most substantial health finance policy achievements of Biden 's presidency was increasing subsidies to insurance companies selling individual marketplace plans . These subsidies have become load-bearing insurance infrastructure , and without their projected $335 billion over the next decade , millions of people will be even less able to afford their health care . <p> Gains made under the Affordable Care Act have been erased . More people are insured than they were before the ACA , but many more people are underinsured . Some premiums for employer-sponsored insurance plans have increased by 50 percent since 2011 ; out-of-pocket spending ( in addition to premiums ) is up 16 percent from where it was pre-ACA . The Affordable Care Act was a series of elaborate bribes designed to persuade the for-profit entities that run American health care to be a little less ferocious ; a decade later , Cerberus has broken free of his leash . Every policy tweak in the mold of the past 10 years of American health policy will fare similarly : They are little more than incredibly expensive bandages slapped onto an ever-spreading wound . <p> The refusal of the 2020-2024 Democrats to reject the limitless money of the profiteers and seize on the deep bipartisan fury against the health insurance system was a predictable ( some might say inevitable ) , disastrous , and world-changing own-goal . While most of the party is focused on making sure nothing ever changes , some politicians trying to catch the spirit have come out to wring their hands and talk about how we need reform . They and many others will suggest policies over the next few months -- some lightweight , like restricting AI oversight of claim denials ; some essential but incomplete , like antitrust legislation against UnitedHealth and its peers . Elected officials are incapable of doing anything more unless they are willing to jettison the idea that health care should be arranged according to the whims of shareholder value -- an idea lodged , like Excalibur , into the foundation of our political economy . They , or their low-VORP successors , will be unwilling to do so unless there is concerted political effort to demand it . This is not a question of policy , but power . <p> Individual acts of violence will not bring about the systemic reforms required to obviate the institutionalized extortion of private insurance . I do n't imagine a mass militia of patients will ( or should ) rise up and revolt against their medical oppressors with an armory of 3D-printed guns . If anything , the extremely " median voter " ideology of Mangione instead suggests the potential for a massive political coalition that can be directed toward serious health care reform . <p> We can find inspiration from how ADAPT and other disability rights organizations organized in mass groups and threw their bodies on the line to preserve Medicaid financing and the Affordable Care Act under Donald Trump . We can look to Reclaim Idaho , the nonpartisan mass movement that expanded Medicaid in the state through a ballot referendum in 2018 . We should not find solace in campaign promises toward tweaky minor reforms that , through their victories , kill momentum for more serious change . <p> Whether you believe health care is a human or civil right or if you just want to maximize efficiency while guaranteeing universal coverage , the only policy path forward is an expanded and improved Medicare for All , a system in which premiums and deductibles are replaced with fairly distributed taxes and all health care spending is paid by the federal government , which uses its tremendous purchasing power to drive costs down and guarantees patients need spend nothing out-of-pocket . Twenty-two separate studies , including one by the conservative Mercatus Center , find that some version of Medicare for All or another would save money compared to our current privatized arrangement . Other countries ' health care models instruct us that any introduction of fragmented , privatized insurance creates gaps into which the sickest or poorest people fall . I have argued elsewhere that a Medicare for All model is absolutely necessary ( but not sufficient in and of itself ) to address the larger problems which sicken and kill the people we love . <p> It 's been five fallow years for health justice . Is this the spark we need , or is it just a directionless moment of cultural catharsis ? Will Brian Thompson 's death bring us to the doors of our neighbors , the halls of our legislatures , and the streets of our cities ? Will someone -- a union leader , a politician , a community organization -- be able to capitalize on this kinetic energy the way Bernie Sanders did , this time more prepared to face the extreme resistance of capital , or is the conquest of the boardroom over the living room absolute ? I 'm not optimistic , but I 'm hopeful ; I 'm putting my boots on . I got ta . There is no alternative but the nihilism of lonely Luigi Mangione. 
@@119170750 <p> Israeli authorities allowed a rare Gaza visit by the leader of the Catholic Church in the Holy Land , Cardinal Pierbattista Pizzaballa , for the Mass while the ever-present buzz of Israeli drones was heard outside . <p> One of the latest Israeli strikes hit a school housing displaced people in Gaza City and killed at least eight , including three children , according to Gaza 's Health Ministry . Israel 's military said it struck Hamas militants sheltering there . <p> Advertisement <p> A strike on a home in the central city of Deir al Balah late Saturday killed at least eight , including three women and two children , according to Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital , which received the bodies . Another six people were killed in separate strikes on Sunday , according to local hospitals . <p> " The children are still inside the house . We are looking for them . They were sleeping in the living room , five of them together , " said a relative of a victim , Noman Abu Samra , as people searched rubble in Deir al Balah . A window full of children looked on . <p> Israel has carried out daily strikes in Gaza more than 14 months into the war with Hamas . It says it only targets militants , accusing them of hiding among civilians , but the bombings frequently kill women and children . <p> Advertisement <p> Israel and Hamas recently appeared to draw closer to a cease-fire agreement that would include the release of Israeli hostages and Palestinian prisoners , but several obstacles remain , and the indirect talks have repeatedly stalled . <h> Vatican envoy celebrates Mass <p> Dozens of worshipers gathered in the Holy Family Church in Gaza City as Pizzaballa and other clergy celebrated Mass . A twinkling Christmas tree was decorated with golden ornaments . <p> " I want to say , to tell you , that all the world , not only the Christian world , all the world is with you , So the war will finish and we will rebuild , " the cardinal said , urging Gazans to never be afraid . <p> Advertisement <p> His visit came as Pope Francis again criticized Israel 's actions in Gaza . Francis said Saturday that his envoy had been unable to enter the territory because of Israeli bombing . <p> " Yesterday children have been bombed . This is cruelty , this is not war , " Francis said during his annual Christmas greetings at the Vatican . On Sunday , he called for a cease-fire . <p> The pope recently called for an investigation to determine whether Israel 's actions in Gaza constitute genocide , a conclusion later reached by Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch . The International Court of Justice is investigating genocide allegations brought against Israel by South Africa . <p> Israel , which was founded as a refuge for Jews after the Nazi Holocaust , rejects such allegations . It says it is only at war with Hamas , which it accuses of genocidal violence in the attack that ignited the war . <h> Now winter sets in <p> In that Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack , Hamas-led militants stormed into southern Israel and killed some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and abducted around 250 . Around 100 hostages are still in Gaza , at least a third believed to be dead . <p> Israel 's subsequent bombardment and ground invasion have killed over 45,000 Palestinians in Gaza , more than half of them women and children , according to the Gaza Health Ministry , which does not distinguish between fighters and civilians in its count . <p> Advertisement <p> The offensive has caused widespread destruction and displaced some 90% of Gaza 's 2.3 million people , often multiple times . Hundreds of thousands are packed into squalid tent camps along the coast as the cold , wet winter sets in . <p> Israel has been carrying out a major operation in northern Gaza since early October , battling Hamas in the most isolated and heavily damaged part of the territory . Tens of thousands have fled as the military has ordered a complete evacuation and allowed almost no humanitarian aid to enter . <p> The Israeli military body overseeing civilian affairs in Gaza , known as COGAT , said on Friday it facilitated the evacuation of over 100 patients , caregivers and others from Kamal Adwan Hospital and Al-Awda Hospital in the north . They have struggled to function . COGAT said it also facilitated the delivery of 5,000 liters of fuel and food packages to the hospitals . <p> Kamal Adwan 's director on Saturday asserted that Israel 's military had ordered an evacuation and said shelling was occurring . Israel 's military on Sunday said there was no evacuation order and it was unaware of any strikes there . <h> Palestinian security force member killed in West Bank <p> In the volatile West Bank town of Jenin , militants shot and killed a member of the Palestinian security forces and wounded two others . The Western-backed Palestinian Authority launched a rare crackdown there this month . <p> A statement from the security forces blamed the shooting on " outlaws , " without elaborating . <p> Advertisement <p> The Palestinian Authority is internationally recognized but deeply unpopular among Palestinians , in part because it cooperates with Israel on security matters . It exercises limited authority in population centers in the West Bank . <p> Israel captured the territory in the 1967 Mideast War , and the Palestinians want it to form the main part of their future state . <p> Shurafa and Goldenberg write for the Associated Press . Goldenberg reported from Tel Aviv . 
@@119171541 <h> AP News Summary at 12:10 a.m . EST <p> What Trump 's decision to wade into spending fight tells us about the next 4 years <p> WASHINGTON ( AP ) -- After days of threats and demands , Donald Trump had little to show for it once lawmakers passed a budget deal . The president-elect successfully pushed House Republicans to jettison some spending . But he failed to achieve his central goal of raising the debt limit . It 's clear that despite his decisive election win and frequent promises of retribution , many members of his party are willing to openly defy him . Trump 's decision to inject himself into the budget debate a month before his inauguration also is a sign that his second term could be marked by the same infighting and brinksmanship that characterized his first . <p> Two US Navy pilots shot down over Red Sea in apparent ' friendly fire ' incident , US military says <p> DUBAI , United Arab Emirates ( AP ) -- The U.S. military says two U.S. Navy pilots have been shot down over the Red Sea in an apparent " friendly fire " incident . Both pilots were recovered alive , with one suffering minor injuries in the incident on Sunday . The incident came as the U.S. military conducted airstrikes targeting Yemen 's Houthi rebels , though the U.S. military 's Central Command did not elaborate on what their mission was at the time . " The guided missile cruiser USS Gettysburg , which is part of the USS Harry S. Truman Carrier Strike Group , mistakenly fired on and hit the F/A-18 , which was flying off the USS Harry S. Truman , " Central Command said in a statement . <p> Winter is hitting Gaza and many Palestinians have little protection from the cold <p> KHAN YOUNIS , Gaza Strip ( AP ) -- Nearly two million displaced Palestinians in Gaza are struggling to protect themselves from the coming winter . This comes as Israel 's 14-month-old war with Hamas drags on . The prices of blankets , wood , and winter clothing have skyrocketed amid shortages . The tents many people live in are growing increasingly tattered . Aid workers say nearly a million people need winterization supplies and that thousands of tents , blankets and mattresses are stuck awaiting delivery into Gaza in part because of Israeli restrictions . <p> In Assad 's hometown , few shared in his family 's fortune . They hope they wo n't share in his downfall <p> QARDAHA , Syria ( AP ) -- On the walls of the palatial mausoleum built to house the remains of former Syrian President Hafez Assad -- whose son , Bashar Assad , was ousted two weeks ago -- vandals have sprayed variations of the phrase , " Damn your soul , Hafez . " While the Assads lived in luxury , most residents of the ousted president 's hometown of Qardaha survived on manual labor , low-level civil service jobs and farming to eke out a living . Many , like Assad , are members of the Alawite minority sect . They sent their sons to serve in Assad 's army , not out of loyalty to the regime but because they had no other options . Now they remain hopeful they wo n't share in repercussions from Assad 's downfall . <p> Germans mourn the 5 killed and 200 injured in the apparent attack on a Christmas market <p> MAGDEBURG , Germany ( AP ) -- Church bells rang out in the German city of Magdeburg exactly 24 hours after authorities say a man drove into a busy Christmas market , killing five people and injuring 200 others . Friday 's attack in the city of roughly 240,000 people shook the public 's sense of security at what would otherwise be a time of joy and wonder . Authorities said Saturday that 41 people were injured seriously enough that the death toll could rise further . The driver , a 50-year-old doctor who immigrated from Saudi Arabia in 2006 , surrendered to police at the scene . A prosecutor says that among other things , investigators are looking into whether the attack might have been motivated by the suspect 's dissatisfaction with the German treatment Saudi refugees . <p> 38 people are dead and over 100 missing in Congo after a ferry capsizes on the Busira River <p> KINSHASA , Congo ( AP ) -- Officials say 38 people are confirmed dead , and over 100 missing in Congo after an overloaded ferry -- full of people returning home for Christmas -- capsized . Twenty people are confirmed to have been rescued so far . The boat was traveling on the Busira River in the northeast of the Congo as part of a convoy of other vessels , according to the mayor of the last town the boat visited . The latest tragedy occurred less than four days after another boat in the northeast of the country capsized , killing 25 . <p> Hall of Famer Rickey Henderson , baseball 's stolen base king , has died at 65 <p> OAKLAND , Calif . ( AP ) -- Baseball Hall of Famer and stolen base king Rickey Henderson has died . He was 65 . Known as baseball 's " Man of Steal , " Henderson had a lengthy list of accolades and accomplishments over his nomadic 25-year career . He was an MVP , 10-time All-Star selection , two-time World Series champion and Gold Glove winner . But it was stealing bases where Henderson made his name . He broke Lou Brock 's single-season record of 118 by stealing 130 bases in 1982 and led the league in steals for seven straight seasons and 12 overall . He broke Brock 's career record when he stole his 939th base on May 1 , 1991 . Henderson finished his career with 1,406 steals . <p> As flooding becomes a yearly disaster in South Sudan , thousands survive on the edge of a canal <p> AYOD , South Sudan ( AP ) -- Flooding is becoming a yearly disaster in South Sudan . The World Bank has described the nation as " the world 's most vulnerable country to climate change and also the one most lacking in coping capacity . " Tens of thousands of South Sudanese perch in makeshift communities on the rare high ground of the Jonglei Canal . Seasonal flooding has long been part of the lifestyle of pastoral communities around the Sudd , the largest wetland in Africa . But the swamp keeps growing , submerging villages , ruining farmland and killing livestock . Residents describe wading for hours to the nearest clinic through waters where poisonous snakes are a risk . <p> The water was their livelihood . Now Thailand 's sea nomads work to preserve a vanishing way of life <p> SURIN ISLANDS , Thailand ( AP ) -- The Moken , a group of indigenous people from Thailand and Myanmar , once sailed freely between the archipelago of 800 islands off the coast of the two countries . Colloquially known as sea nomads , they lived aboard boats called kabangs for months at a time , and got sustenance from the sea . They became known to the world when they saved tourists from the powerful Indian Ocean Tsunami in 2004 . Today , with strict borders and limited ability to make the kabangs that are so central to their identity , the Moken are working on to hold onto their traditions against powerful forces of change . <p> OMAHA , Neb . ( AP ) -- Nebraska 's third-largest high school decided not to play varsity girls basketball this year after no juniors or seniors went out for the sport . But Grand Island is not alone . Participation in girls high school basketball is down roughly 20% over the past two decades . At the same time , volleyball , soccer and track and field all have been surging in popularity . So it seems the highly touted Caitlin Clark effect has yet to take hold . The WNBA star 's record-setting run at the University of Iowa was supposed to inspire more girls to start shooting hoops . More people than ever are watching women 's college and pro games , but that has n't translated into more players in high school . <p> Copyright 2024 The Associated Press . All rights reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten or redistributed . <h> Watch this discussion.Stop watching this discussion . <h> ( 0 ) comments <h> Welcome to the discussion . <p> Keep it Clean . Please avoid obscene , vulgar , lewd , racist or sexually-oriented language.PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.Do n't Threaten . Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.Be Truthful . Do n't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.Be Nice . No racism , sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.Be Proactive . Use the ' Report ' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us . We 'd love to hear eyewitness accounts , the history behind an article . 
@@119174655 <p> West Virginia native Rachel Braslavi says she moved into her new home so that her family could have more space , and more of a community feel . But she faces bigger questions than she might with a typical home purchase . Their community is the Israeli settlement of Karnei Shomron , located inside the occupied West Bank . <p> Asked if she sees her family of settlers as impediments to peace , Braslavi replied , " No . I do n't . I really do n't . I feel that we have a right to be here . And I feel that the Palestinians have a right to be here . " <p> " On this land ? " I asked . <p> " Not this house , " Braslavi said . " But I mean , in the area . " <p> West Virginia native Rachel Braslavi now lives with her family in the West Bank settlement of Karnei Shomron . CBS News <p> This settlement , like hundreds of others , is carved into Palestinian land , surrounded by a security fence . The border separating the West Bank from Israel is called the Green Line . It was drawn as part of an armistice agreement following the 1948 Arab-Israeli war , which was sparked when the modern state of Israel was formed . <p> But after Israel 's stunning military success in the Six Day War of 1967 , Israel took more land , occupying the Palestinian territories , and Israeli citizens began building settlements . <p> Today , upwards of 700,000 Israelis live in these communities , which the United Nations calls illegal . They 're scattered inside the West Bank and East Jerusalem . About 15% of settlers are Americans . <p> Israeli settlements , guarded by the Israeli military , have been constructed within the occupied West Bank . CBS News <p> But Rachel Braslavi does not see herself as living on Palestinian land : " No . I do n't . I think that some of the first places that Jews arrived to back in Biblical times were in Judea and Samaria . So , to me , this is part of our indigenous right to be here . " <p> I asked , " How much of your decision to move here to a settlement was cost of living versus ideology ? " <p> " I came from America when I was in my 20s to live in Israel , " she said . " And I kind of thought of that move as , like , my contribution to the Jewish people in our homeland . It did n't matter where I lived in Israel . <p> " And my husband grew up here , and he saw it differently . He really thought , to contribute in a meaningful way , it was moving across the Green Line and establishing , like , facts on the ground . " <p> The settler population has grown more than 200 percent since 2000 . The Israeli government encourages these moves , paying for the military to guard them , and funding public services like buses and schools . <p> Settlements under construction . CBS News <p> Judith Segaloff moved to Karnei Shomron seven years ago from Detroit , and says she was able to afford a bigger house here than she would have on the other side of the Green Line . She took us on a tour . " Across the street is our mall , " she said . " We 've got an ice cream shop . Here 's our sushi shop . " <p> I asked , " Do you have friends or family who do n't agree with you living in a settlement ? " <p> " For sure , " Segaloff said . " Some of them wo n't come visit . " <p> Segaloff says she 's excited by plans to expand a settlement just up the road . She believes Israeli presence offers security . <p> There are plans to expand this hilltop settlement . CBS News <p> " But it 's also a contested place , " I said , " a place considered an occupied territory . " <p> " By some , " Segaloff said . <p> " By the international community . " <p> " Well , they 're gon na have to get over it , " Segaloff said . " You can not live among people who want to kill you . They 're just gon na have to move over and let us in . " <p> But not far away , on the other side of checkpoints and a security barrier , we met Palestinian Saher Eid , who lives in the West Bank village where his great-grandfather was born . <p> Asked about settlers ' claims that -- historically , Biblically -- the land is theirs , Eid said , " We have documents that prove we own this land , which we 've farmed since forever . Ask the settlers where they are from ? " <p> He and his wife , Tamador , a high school science teacher , invited us to tea . They say they 're most concerned about rising violence from Israeli settlers , emboldened by Benjamin Netanyahu 's increasingly right-wing government . Since October 7th last year , the U.N . figures there have been more than 1,400 attacks by extremist settlers against Palestinians or their property . <p> The Eids are also frustrated that the fence and checkpoints around a settlement have cut them off from their own olive trees . Saher said his freedom was taken away : " He stole my land . He stole my olives . He stole everything . " <p> Saher Eid with correspondent Seth Doane . Edi says rights to his family 's land have been taken from them . CBS News <p> I asked , " Is there any space for introspection here ? Do you ever think , ' Maybe we are n't the best partners to try to find a path toward peace ' ? <p> " We believe that if there was a Palestinian state without settlements , there would be wide support for peace , " Saher said . <p> The differences on this side of the security barrier are stark . Incomes are a fraction of those in Israel , and Israel controls the water and much of the tax revenue . <p> Saher said he would welcome an Israeli who lives in Tel Aviv into his home , but not a settler : " No , because he 's a thief . " <p> Assaf Sharon , a professor of political and legal philosophy at Tel Aviv University , noted , " James Carville coined the phrase , ' It 's the economy , stupid . ' In Israel-Palestine , ' It 's the settlements , stupid . ' " <p> In regards to settlers who claim that they did not take anyone 's land , that no one was living there before them , Sharon said , " Well , of course , it was n't done individually . Occupying a land does n't mean you have a house on it . It can be grazing land . It can be land reserves for future building . And it can be just the area that is reserved for self-determination of a people . " <p> " Settlers make a security argument , that Israel is safer with the settlements , " I said . <p> " The security argument is completely bogus , " Sharon replied . " The settlements are not a security asset ; they are a security burden , because defending , protecting scores of civilians , deep in densely populated Palestinian territory , is one hell of a burden for the military . " <p> He added , " The best way to ensure Israel 's security is to have partnership with the state or state-like entity that has an interest in preventing precisely this kind of hostile activity . " <p> In 2013 , Makovsky was part of the team trying to negotiate a peace deal . That failed proposal , and two others , would have seen Palestinians keep about 95% of the West Bank . <p> But today , with the increasing number of settlements -- blue dots on the map , some far from the Green Line -- it may be even more complicated to determine borders in a two-state solution . <p> The negotiations changed under Donald Trump , said Makovsky : " Until Trump , all of the U.S. peace approaches were similar . Under Trump , working with Prime Minister Netanyahu , he does n't want to pick and choose which settlements make it and which do n't . So , the prime minister convinced the president that every single settlement is called Israel . Now that creates an impossible situation of Swiss cheese . Any Palestinian entity is now going to be dotted with settlements . " <p> Now , settlers may have another ally with sway in President-elect Trump 's nominee to be the next ambassador to Israel : Mike Huckabee , who has said he 's open to annexing parts of the West Bank . <p> According to Makovsky , " 2005 is for the settlers their Waterloo , their defeat . " That 's when Israel removed all 8,000 settlers from Gaza . <p> Back then , I profiled a 17-year-old who was being forced to leave Gush Katif , her settlement in Gaza . Nineteen years later , settlements are still front-page news . " Yes , that 's how it is in Israel , " said Rachel Yechieli Gross . Today , she is now a mom with three kids , and no longer lives in a settlement . <p> I asked , " The fact that you left your home , your settlement as a teenager , shows that settlements can be closed . Might that be a step toward peace ? " <p> " After October 7th , I 'm not so sure anymore , because I really believed that there could be change , " said Gross . " But I do n't feel that anymore . " <p> Makovsky blamed the terror group Hamas , which he said " has really led to the growth of the Israeli right . If people in Israel thought that a Palestinian state was Costa Rica , they would line up to sign , ' cause they want to end the conflict . They just want to be safe . But if they feel a Palestinian state is a mini-Iran , you ca n't find enough people in the phone booth . " <p> Seth Doane is an award-winning CBS News correspondent based in Rome , Italy since 2016 . Doane has covered terrorist attacks and breaking news across Europe , traveled with Pope Francis as part of his coverage of the Vatican , and has reported on issues ranging from migration to climate change . 
@@119175248 <p> Two US Navy pilots ejected safely after their fighter jet was shot down over the Red Sea on Saturday in an apparent friendly fire incident , US Central Command said in a statement . <p> The pilots were recovered , and one of the crew members sustained minor injuries , according to initial assessments . <p> The aircraft , an F/A-18 , was operating from the USS Harry S. Truman when it was " mistakenly fired " upon by the USS Gettysburg , CENTCOM said . The USS Gettysburg , a Ticonderoga-class guided missile cruiser , is part of the Truman carrier strike group , which entered the waters of the Middle East one week ago . <p> A full investigation is underway . CENTCOM stressed the incident was not the result of hostile fire . <p> Yemen 's Houthi rebels claimed in a statement Sunday that they shot down an F/A-18 aircraft over the Red Sea and targeted the USS Harry Truman aircraft carrier . The Houthis said their strikes were in response to American and British forces attacking their drones and missiles . The group has repeatedly made false claims of striking US warships operating in the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden . <p> The US has maintained a near-constant presence of major Navy warships in the region since the start of the war in Gaza , as the Houthis have targeted ships in the Red Sea , one of the world 's busiest waterways , calling the attacks a response to Israel 's war against Hamas . <p> The apparent friendly fire incident comes the same day the US carried out airstrikes against Houthi targets in Yemen , hitting a missile storage facility and a command-and-control facility in the capital of Sana'a . The US also shot down one-way attack drones and an anti-ship cruise missile , according to CENTCOM . <p> The strikes on the Iran-backed rebel group involved the use of Navy F/A-18 fighter jets , as well as US Air Force assets , CENTCOM said . <p> According to two US military officials , the downed fighter jet was not part of the strikes in Yemen . <p> The Houthis , who control Yemen 's most populous regions , say they wo n't stop striking Israel and its allies until a ceasefire is reached in Gaza . <p> The F/A-18 incident also came the same day Houthi forces in Yemen said they fired a hypersonic ballistic missile at an Israeli military target in Tel Aviv 's Jaffa area . The missile fired from Yemen hit Tel Aviv overnight into Saturday , Israeli authorities said , in a rare instance of a failed interception over the city . <p> More than a dozen people sustained minor injuries , according to emergency services , but no fatalities were reported . 
@@119243954 <p> The sense of hollowness of the Church of the Nativity is deeper than absent tourists . <p> The chants and prayers are pain-stricken and desperate . <p> Down in the manger by the enshrined spot where baby Jesus was said to be born , a priest solemnly swings incense into the corners . <p> Image:Bethlehem 's Christian community struggles to celebrate amid ongoing war in Palestine <p> There is no beautifully-lit tree in the square outside for the second year in a row . Even in their homes , the Palestinian Christian community in Bethlehem is struggling to celebrate . <p> The empty spaces and lack of tourism are the shadow of 14 months of war in Gaza and a daily reminder of the ongoing devastation . <p> And around their family homes , Israeli settlements in the West Bank - illegal under international law - are inching closer . <p> ' Our country is shrinking ' <p> " Normally we spend Christmas in Bethlehem and Jerusalem but this year there are no celebrations because of what is happening with the war . It is not nice to celebrate while people are dying , " says Alice Kisiya . <p> Alice is from Beit Jala , Bethlehem . For five years , her family have waged legal battles with settlers over their generational home . <p> " Each Christmas we had demolition because each time they come and demolish . Last year , we were celebrating Christmas there and they came and demolished our small tent , " says Alice . <p> She and her family are waiting for a Supreme Court ruling in January on whether they can return . <p> " Our country is shrinking . As Palestinian Christians , we can not really have our freedom to move freely and it 's getting worse . " <p> Her words resonate as we drive along the West Bank wall on the edges of Bethlehem . <p> A stark reminder of the political divide that is tearing through the Holy Land . <p> ' It seems destiny of Holy Land is to stay divided ' <p> On the other side of the wall from the sacred site where Jesus was born is where he was crucified in Jerusalem . <p> We hear that the procession of the Latin Patriarch of Jerusalem is soon arriving through a checkpoint inside the wall into Bethlehem to the Church of Nativity . <p> A crowd of eager Catholics are waiting for him by Rachel 's Tomb , a sacred site for Orthodox Jews . <p> School children visiting the tomb are ushered off the street by elders aware of the arriving procession . <p> They start to sing defiantly as older students are forcefully removed from the road by Israeli police . <p> There is a hushed sense of anticipation and awe from those waiting for Cardinal Pierbattista Pizzaballa to arrive from the Church of Holy Sepulchre - where Jesus was crucified - to the Church of the Nativity , where he was born in refuge . <p> " This is an important more than a thousand-year-old tradition , " says Tony Marcos , Dean of the Catholic Action Foundation . <p> As a Palestinian resident of the West Bank , Tony is not permitted to make the procession between the two holy sites . <p> " It seems the destiny of this Holy Land is to stay divided and these are difficult times we are living in , " he adds . <p> " Christmas is the season of love and the season of hope . There is big pain and there is instability - a lot of sacrifices and a lot of blood , " he says . <p> Image:Tony Marcos <p> ' We want next year to be full of light ' <p> The anxiety seems to dissipate as Cardinal Pizzaballa arrives . <p> He shakes hands with a queue of people eager to get close to the leader of the Church they can not visit . <p> " This Christmas , we want people not to lose hope . It is possible to break down the hatred , the division , the contempt and the lack of justice and dignity we are experiencing here , " says Cardinal Pizzaballa . <p> " The prayer is to raise our gaze and to look forward , not backwards . We want the next year to be full of light - lighted in the darkness . " 
@@119244050 <p> Bethlehem , West Bank -- Bethlehem marked another somber Christmas Eve on Tuesday in the traditional birthplace of Jesus under the shadow of war in Gaza . <p> The excitement and cheer that typically descends on the Palestinian town in the occupied West Bank on Christmas were nowhere to be found : The festive lights and giant tree that normally decorate Manger Square were missing , and as were the throngs of foreign tourists that usually fill the square . <p> Palestinian scouts marched silently through the streets , a departure from their usual raucous brass marching band . Some carried a sign that read , " We want life , not death . " <p> Palestinian security forces , meanwhile , arranged barriers near the Nativity Church , built atop the spot where Jesus is believed to have been born , and a worker cleared garbage bins . <p> " Always the message of Bethlehem is a message of peace and hope , " said Mayor Anton Salman . " And these days , we are also sending our message to the world : peace and hope , but insisting that the world must work to end our suffering as Palestinian people . " <p> The cancellation of Christmas festivities is a severe blow to the town 's economy . Tourism accounts for an estimated 70% of Bethlehem 's income -- almost all of it from the Christmas season . Salman said unemployment is hovering around 50% -- higher than the 30% unemployment across the rest of the West Bank , according to the Palestinian Finance Ministry . <p> Latin Patriarch Pierbattista Pizzaballa , the top Roman Catholic cleric in the Holy Land , noted the shuttered shops and empty streets and expressed hope that next year would be better . <p> " This has to be the last Christmas that is so sad , " he told hundreds of people gathered in Manger Square , where normally tens of thousands would congregate . " I bring you the greetings , the prayers , of our brothers and sisters in Gaza . " <p> Pizzaballa held a special pre-Christmas mass in Holy Family Church in Gaza City on Sunday . " I saw everything destroyed , poverty , disaster , but I also saw life . They do n't give up , so we do n't give up , " he said . <p> The number of visitors to the town plunged from a pre-COVID high of around 2 million visitors per year in 2019 to fewer than 100,000 visitors in 2024 , said Jiries Qumsiyeh , the spokesperson for the Palestinian Tourism Ministry . <p> Bethlehem is an important center in the history of Christianity , but Christians make up only a small percentage of the roughly 14 million people spread across the Holy Land . There are about 182,000 in Israel , 50,000 in the West Bank and Jerusalem and 1,300 in Gaza , according to the U.S. State Department . <p> While the war in Gaza has deterred tourists and pilgrims alike , it has also prompted a surge of violence in the West Bank , with more than 800 Palestinians killed by Israeli fire and dozens of Israelis killed in militant attacks . <p> Since the Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack that sparked the war , access to and from Bethlehem and other Palestinian towns in the West Bank has been difficult , with long lines of motorists waiting to pass Israeli military checkpoints . Restrictions have also prevented some 150,000 Palestinians from leaving the territory to work in Israel , causing the economy there to contract by 25% . <p> More than 45,000 Palestinians have been killed in Gaza , according to health officials there , while some 90% of the territory 's 2.3 million residents have been displaced . Officials say more than half of the dead are women and children , though they do n't give a breakdown of how many are civilians and how many fighters . <p> In the Oct. 7 assault on southern Israel , Hamas-led militants killed about 1,200 people , most of them civilians , and took more than 250 hostages . <p> Elsewhere , Christmas celebrations were also subdued . <h> Syrians protest after Christmas tree burned <p> Scores of Syrian Christians protested Tuesday in Damascus , demanding protection after the burning of a Christmas tree in Hama the day before . <p> Videos and images shared on social media showed the large , decorated tree burning at a roundabout in Suqalabiyah , a town in the Hama countryside . It remains unclear who was responsible for setting the tree on fire . <p> In a video that circulated on social media , a representative of Syria 's new leadership , Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham , could be seen visiting the site and addressing the community . He said : " This act was committed by people who are not Syrian , and they will be punished beyond your expectations . " <p> Flowers , candles and a stuffed animal shown Monday at a makeshift memorial for the victims of a car-ramming attack on a Christmas market in Magdeburg , eastern Germany last week . An SUV smashed through a crowd at the . market on Friday , killing four women and a nine-year-old child and injuring 205 people . <p> Ralf Hirschberger AFP/Distributed by Getty Images <h> Germans mourn after Christmas market attack <p> German celebrations were darkened by a car attack on a Christmas market on Friday that left five people dead and 200 people injured . <p> President Frank-Walter Steinmeier rewrote his annual recorded Christmas Day speech to address the attack in Magdeburg . <p> He plans to acknowledge " grief , pain , horror and incomprehension over what took place , " while urging Germans to " stand together , " according to an early copy of the speech . <h> Heavy snow hits Balkans <p> A snowstorm in the Balkans stranded drivers and downed power lines , but some saw the beauty in it . <p> " I 'm actually glad it 's falling , especially because of Christmas , " said Mirsad Jasarevic in Zenica , Bosnia . " We did not have snow for Christmas for 17 years here , and now is the time for wonderful white Christmas . " 
@@119246147 <p> There is a lot of dither about the future of journalism . Make no mistake , it is the essential commodity . <p> If you know what is going on in Gaza , Ukraine or Syria , it is because brave journalists told you . Not the government , not some academic institution , not artificial intelligence , and not hearsay from your friends or from a political party . <p> The crisis in journalism is n't that it failed analytically in the last election , or that we -- an irregular army of individualists -- failed , but that journalism has run out of money and its political enemies have found that the courts ( and the fear of libel prosecution ) can terrorize the companies that own the media . <p> In 2016 , the gossipy site Gawker was sued by the pro wrestler and political figure Hulk Hogan . The lawsuit was financed by the billionaire investor Peter Thiel . <p> Now come two suits filed by President-elect Donald Trump : One that he won against ABC News , and one to be filed against the Des Moines Register . It is reported that conservative interests plan a series of these legal interventions against the media . <p> This will have a frightening effect on news coverage . When there is fear of prosecution , there is less likely to be investigative news coverage . <p> So far , the most troublesome of the prosecutions has been the one against ABC News . The network caved in early . It agreed to pay $15 million plus legal fees into a fund for what will be the first Trump presidential library . <p> Could it be that ABC is owned by Disney , and Disney wants good relations with the incoming administration ? <p> However , a much bigger problem faces the media than the fear of prosecution . It is that the old media , led by local and regional newspapers , is dying . Although there are thousands of podcasts , they do n't take up the slack . <p> You could listen to an awful lot of podcasts and not know what is going on . Statehouses and local courts are n't being covered . The sanitizing effect of press surveillance has been withdrawn and , frankly , God help the poor defendants in a local court where there is a disproportionate desire to plead cases , to avoid honest trials even when there is conspicuous doubt . <p> I never tire of repeating what Dan Raviv , former CBS News correspondent , said to me once : " My job is simple . I try to find out what is going on and tell people . " <p> Quite so . However , there is a problem : Journalism needs to be concentrated in a newspaper or a broadcast outlet where there is enough revenue to do the job . Otherwise , you get what I think of as the upside-down pyramid of more and more commentary , based on less and less reporting . <p> We are awash in commentary , some of it very good and some of it trash . It is all based on news gathered by those news organizations that can afford to employ a phalanx of reporters . <p> Regional newspapers used to have Washington bureaus and foreign bureaus . At one time , the Baltimore Sun had 12 overseas bureaus . Now it has none . <p> This is the story nationwide . Fewer people actually cover the news , digging , checking and telling us what they have found . <p> Throughout the history of journalism , technology has been disruptive , sometimes advantageously and sometimes less so . Modern printing presses developed at the end of the 19th century were important boosters , as was the invention of the Linotype machine in 1884 . <p> On the negative side , television killed off evening papers , and podcasts are taking a toll on radio . Now , the internet and tech companies have siphoned off most of the revenue that supported newspapers , radio and television . <p> As one ca n't have a free and fair society without vibrant journalism , we clearly need a new paradigm which is internet-based news organizations that are large enough and rich enough to do the job in the time-honored way with reporters asking questions , whether it is at the courthouse , the White House or on the battlefield . <p> There is a clear choice : News and informed analysis , or rumor and conspiracy . <p> Llewellyn King is the executive producer and host of " White House Chronicle " on PBS . He wrote this column for InsideSources.com . <h> Tags <h> Welcome to the discussion . <p> Keep it Clean . Please avoid obscene , vulgar , lewd , racist or sexually-oriented language.PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.Do n't Threaten . Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.Be Truthful . Do n't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.Be Nice . No racism , sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.Be Proactive . Use the ' Report ' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us . We 'd love to hear eyewitness accounts , the history behind an article . 
@@119246148 <p> On the one hand , there 's no sugarcoating how progressives feel at the close of 2024 : rough . <p> Donald Trump won back the White House with a campaign that was openly bigoted and fascist . And from Joe Biden 's backing of Israel 's ghastly war in Gaza to his ill-fated decision to seek reelection , progressives are n't celebrating his tenure , either . <p> The next few years will see an onslaught of challenges . If you look closely , you 'll see signs people are n't just going to roll over and accept it . Here are five that caught my eye . <p> First , populist anger is boiling over . <p> The American public has had it with economic elites . Union activity has been on an upswing for a few years , with union petition filings in 2024 significantly up over 2023 . <p> After a successful national strike in 2023 , the United Auto Workers won an election in Tennessee this year , a significant breakthrough in the traditionally anti-union South . And more Amazon warehouse workers and drivers are pushing to join unions , breaking open one of America 's most anti-union corporations . <p> Meanwhile , communities in places like Wisconsin fought back against a private equity takeover of nursing care . And nationally , widespread anger positively exploded over the greed of health insurance companies . <p> Trump likes to play a populist on TV . However , if he moves to slash workers ' rights , cut taxes for CEOs , and erode healthcare access , he 'll have a fight on his hands . <p> Second , the peace movement is back . <p> The movement for a ceasefire in Gaza drew support from a vast , diverse coalition of young people -- with additional support from faith communities , unions , environmentalists and others who 'd previously stayed " in their lane . " <p> They have n't succeeded yet , but they 've won broad , bipartisan public support for a ceasefire , arms embargo on Israel , and , more generally , a foreign policy informed by human rights . <p> Democratic politicians , in particular , wo n't be able to avoid this issue . <p> Third , climate wins are adding up . <p> Temperatures continue to rise , natural disasters worsen , and our leaders fail us on climate . The Biden administration 's signature climate law , the Inflation Reduction Act , is unleashing record investments in green jobs , fueling unprecedented growth in renewable power across the United States . <p> Meanwhile , Indigenous-led efforts are quietly reintroducing species to their natural habitats . In Oregon 's Klamath River basin , salmon recently appeared for the first time in 100 years after a dam was removed . <p> The more local support initiatives like these win , the harder they 'll be to reverse . <p> Fourth , some people showed up for their immigrant neighbors . <p> One of the worst moments of the 2024 campaign was the ridiculous slander of Haitian Americans in Springfield , Ohio , by Donald Trump , JD Vance and other right-wing figures . <p> Springfield natives turned out to support their Haitian neighbors . Locals flocked to Haitian restaurants , churches and community centers to show their solidarity , prompting state and local Republicans to speak out against these dangerous lies . <p> There 's a lesson here . While hardline immigration measures can attract support in the abstract , people feel much differently when they realize members of their own communities could be affected . <p> Progressives should defend their immigrant neighbors without apology , not peddle the " Republican-lite " policies favored by national Democrats in recent years . They may win some unlikely allies if they stand up for what 's right . <p> Fifth , even where Democrats lost at the polls , progressive issues won . <p> Forget " red states " and " blue states " -- there 's support for progressive ideas in all 50 states . <p> Just look at the election . Several " red states " passed ballot measures to raise the minimum wage , guarantee paid leave , protect abortion access , and liberalize their marijuana laws . This latest election was no exception -- a trend that 's been building for years . <p> Once you filter out the noise around candidates and ask people about progressive policies directly , even " red state " voters tend to say yes . The key is to make candidates run on those policies -- without watering them down . <p> In short , our politics are a mess right now . Our country is n't " lost " -- only our leaders are . When Americans organize around our common decency , it 's going to get a lot harder for bullies like Trump to walk over us . <p> Peter Certo is the communications director of the Institute for Policy Studies and editor of its OtherWords.org op-ed service . He wrote this column for InsideSources.com . <h> Welcome to the discussion . <p> Keep it Clean . Please avoid obscene , vulgar , lewd , racist or sexually-oriented language.PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.Do n't Threaten . Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.Be Truthful . Do n't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.Be Nice . No racism , sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.Be Proactive . Use the ' Report ' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us . We 'd love to hear eyewitness accounts , the history behind an article . 
@@119246244 <p> President-elect Donald Trump 's onetime national security adviser warns that his former boss returning to the White House will significantly increase the risk of " an international crisis . " <p> John Bolton -- who served as Trump 's national security adviser for 17 months from April 2018 to September 2019 -- dismissed the president-elect 's claims that he is uniquely positioned to resolve international conflicts in Ukraine and Gaza in an interview with The Guardian . He called it " typical Trump : it 's all braggadocio . " <p> On the contrary , Bolton warned that Trump is poised to take office in a " more dangerous " world than when he was first elected , adding that he worried about the instability of Trump 's decision-making , which he likened to " a series of neuron flashes . " <p> Bolton , 76 , noted that the re-elected and emboldened Trump could be even more erratic the second time around . " He now feels more confident in his judgement having been re-elected , which will make it even harder to impose any kind of intellectual decision-making discipline , " he told the U.K. newspaper . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> " The risk of an international crisis of the 19th century variety is much more likely in a second Trump term , " Bolton said . " Given Trump 's inability to focus on coherent decision-making , I 'm very worried about how that might look . " <p> Even before taking office , Trump has begun making erratic demands of foreign countries that have taken even some of his advisers by surprise . He threatened Canada and Mexico with 25 percent tariffs -- and humorously mused about turning the former into the 51st state -- and has suggested the U.S. take over Greenland and the Panama Canal . <p> Bolton also suggested Trump is jealous of authoritarians Vladimir Putin of Russia and and Viktor Orb ? n of Hungary , who Bolton said " do n't have pesky independent legislatures and judiciaries and they do big guy things that Trump ca n't do and he just wishes he could do . " <p> Bolton said he believes Trump considers his relationship with Putin to be a friendship , but says Putin believes " Trump 's an easy mark . " <p> Bolton was reportedly pushed out of Trump 's first administration at Tucker Carlson 's urging . As a senior diplomat in former President George W. Bush 's administration , he was a staunch advocate for the Iraq War , which he continues to defend . <p> Bolton 's own former colleagues alleged he distorted intelligence to fit his own biases , including making embellished and unsubstantiated claims that Cuba was trying to develop biological weapons . Trump once described himself as " the one that tempers " Bolton , rather than the other way around . <p> Samsung 's CES presser is always an odd duck . The Korean electronics giant generally keeps its powder dry when it comes to consumer electronics . Samsung has adopted the tagline " AI for All : Everyday , Everywhere " for the presentation , which kicks off on January 6 at 2 p.m . PT/5 p.m . ET . <p> President-elect Donald Trump has confirmed reports that Sriram Krishnan , until recently a general partner at Andreessen Horowitz ( a16z ) , will serve as senior policy advisor for AI at the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy . " I 'm honored to be able to serve our country and ensure continued American leadership in AI , " Krishnan wrote . <p> With a U.S. TikTok ban scheduled to take effect in less than a month , President-elect Donald Trump said Sunday that he 'd like to keep the app around , according to Reuters . " We 're going to have to start thinking because , you know , we did go on TikTok , and we had a great response with billions of views , billions and billions of views , " Trump told supporters at an event in Phoenix , Arizona . Trump reportedly met with TikTok 's CEO on Monday and said afterward that he has a " warm spot " in his heart for the app . <p> On today 's episode of The College Football Enquirer , Dan Wetzel , Ross Dellenger and SI 's Pat Forde revisit the quality of the first round of the College Football Playoff . They discuss if the TV ratings indicate the playoff needs to avoid expanding further and provide suggestions on how to fix the opening slate . 
@@119252942 <h> IDF shoots down Houthi ballistic missile , Katz vows retaliation <p> A banner depicting U.S. and Israeli flags is burned , as protesters , mainly Houthi supporters , rally to show support to Palestinians in the Gaza Strip , in Sanaa , Yemen December 13 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/KHALED ABDULLAH ) <p> The projectile triggered a wave of sirens throughout the Center and South . There were no reports of direct casualties but paramedics treated more than 20 people who were injured while seeking shelter during the sirens , including a 60-year-old woman who suffered from a head injury , and those who required treatment due to anxiety . <p> Defense Minister Israel Katz said Israel would strike back not only at the Houthis ' economic foundations but also at their leaders . <p> Katz specifically cited Israel 's assassinations of Hezbollah 's Hassan Nasrallah and Hamas 's Yahya Sinwar and Ismail Haniyeh as examples of what Jerusalem could do to Houthi leaders . <p> The defense minister 's mentioning of Haniyeh was also the first time Israel has taken public credit for that assassination , which occurred in Tehran in July . However , it was already widely attributed to the Mossad even then . Israel 's Arrow 3 interceptor. ( credit : DEFENSE MINISTRY ) <h> Houthis vow to continue <p> Houthi official Hezam al-Asad vowed to continue attacks on Israel in an X/Twitter post made 15 minutes after the projectile was launched . <p> " We will not stop until the aggression against our people in Gaza stops , " he wrote . " Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu will know that the dreams of the new Middle East are nothing but a curse for him and his imported entity . " <p> On Saturday , 16 people in Tel Aviv were lightly wounded by glass shards after a Houthi rocket slammed into Jaffa . <p> The IDF said on Tuesday that a probe found a deficiency , which led to no siren being activated in the area . They said adjustments were being made but also said the error was classified for national security reasons . <p> On early Thursday , the Houthis fired a missile toward central Israel . IAF jets struck Houthi targets in Sana'a afterward , the third time during the current war that the Jewish state has counter-attacked , following reprisals in July and September . <p> Additionally , the US began conducting strikes on Houthi missile storage and command facilities in Sana'a on Saturday night . <h> Gaza operations and Arrow 3 <p> In Gaza , the IDF conducted a limited operation against terrorists and their infrastructure in the area of Jabalya 's Indonesian Hospital , the military said on Tuesday . <p> It said that over the past month , terrorists carried out strikes against the IDF from the area of the hospital , which included anti-missile attacks . It also said terrorists had planted explosive devices and booby traps in the area surrounding the hospital 's compound . <p> The military said it apprehended a number of terrorists during the operation , including a terrorist who invaded Israel during the October 7 attacks . It said the troops eliminated five additional terrorists . <p> It also emphasized that measures were taken to mitigate harm to the civilian population . <p> Despite those measures , the Palestinians and foreign media continue with almost daily reports , including ones on Monday , of alleged Palestinian civilian deaths during many IDF strikes . <p> Hamas has said that 45,000 civilians have been killed , around 29,000 of them women or minors . <p> The IDF has said it has killed around 17,000-18,000 Hamas terrorists , which could also include some older armed minors while admitting that many civilians have been caught in the crossfire with Hamas , which uses its own civilians as human shields . <p> Separately , the Defense Ministry announced a multi-billion dollar deal to purchase a large additional quantity of Arrow 3 interceptors . <p> The ministry said the Arrow defense system had performed exceptionally against Iranian missile attacks both on April 13-14 and October 1 . <p> Observers have voiced concern about how many Arrow interceptors are in Israel 's inventory , given that the Houthis have fired over 200 ballistic missiles and Iran has fired over 300 ballistic missiles . 
@@119252950 <h> Her funeral is set to be held at Kibbutz Nir Oz at 4 p.m. on Tuesday . <p> Hannah Katzir , one of the hostages released by Hamas back to Israel on Friday night. ( photo credit : Bring Them Home Now ) <p> Hannah Katzir , taken captive by Hamas in the October 7 , 2023 attack and released in the November 2023 hostage deal , died at the age of 76 , Kibbutz Nir Oz announced on Tuesday . <p> " With great sorrow , we announce the passing of Kibbutz member Hannah Katzir following a prolonged struggle with complex medical issues after her release from captivity , " the statement read . <p> Her funeral was held at Kibbutz Nir Oz on Tuesday afternoon . <p> Katzir 's daughter spoke at the funeral , saying that she was sorry that she could n't have come to free her sooner from Gaza . " I 'm sorry that you were there in Gaza alone and that we could n't have arrived to help you , " her daughter said . " You suffered from so many losses this past year . Now you are freed to rest beside Dad . " <p> Katzir was kidnapped to the Gaza Strip from Kibbutz Nir Oz on October 7 . Her husband , Rami , was murdered during the massacre , and her son Elad was killed in captivity by the Palestinian Islamic Jihad ( PIJ ) . Charred building in Kibbutz Nir Oz ( credit : YAEL YOLOVITCH/IAA ) <p> Prior to her release , the PIJ had falsely claimed she was killed in a strike carried out by the Israel Air Force while being held in captivity . <p> Her daughter , Carmit , said in December last year that her mother returned from captivity " both heartbroken and with serious cardiological issues , including broken heart syndrome . " <p> Approximately two weeks after her release , her health deteriorated significantly , and she was hospitalized in critical condition . <p> Hannah had shared harrowing details of her abduction with her family . She was taken to Gaza violently , placed on a motorcycle , and fell off during the journey . Along the way , her captors threw stones and even candy at her . When she arrived , she spent several days alone . <p> " Those were the hardest days , " said Carmit . Later , Hannah joined other kibbutz members , but the conditions remained dire . " She was in terrible distress , and the treatment was shocking . They told them things like , ' No one is waiting for you , there is no Israel , no kibbutz , no one wants you . ' " <h> A woman with a ' whole heart ' <p> Katzir is described by friends and family as being a woman with a " huge heart " who would always give to others . <p> " Mom was a devoted wife , a loving mother , and a woman who embodied pure love . Her heart could n't withstand the unbearable pain since October 7 . Each day our loved ones remain in captivity puts their lives at greater risk . We must act now to secure a comprehensive agreement to bring back all 100 of our brothers and sisters , " Carmit said . <p> Katzir worked as a kindergarden teacher for many years in the kibbutz , and her acquaintances described her and her murdered husband , Rami , as " a dynamic duo , an inseparable couple . " <p> The Hostage Families Headquarters issued a statement mourning Katzir 's passing : " We bow our heads with grief at the loss of former hostage Hannah Katzir , of blessed memory . She was abducted from her home in Nir Oz on October 7 and released after 49 days . Her husband , Rami , of blessed memory , was murdered in their safe room that day , and her son , Elad , of blessed memory , was taken alive , killed in captivity , and brought back for burial in Israel . We share the profound sorrow of the Katzir family . " <p> Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu also commented on Katzir 's passing , saying , " my wife , Sara , and I mourn the passing of Hannah Katzir , a survivor of Hamas captivity , who passed away after a year-long struggle for her life . " <p> " We succeeded in bringing Hannah back home after she was cruelly abducted by Hamas on October 7 , but her body and soul carried the scars of the horrors until her final day . " <p> " We embrace the Katzir family and remain committed to doing everything and continuing to work tirelessly until we bring all our hostages home . " 
@@119252955 <h> Palestinians sue oil giant BP for supplying Israel during Gaza war <p> By ARAB NEWS/TNS DECEMBER 24 , 2024 18:31 <p> The logo of British multinational oil and gas company BP is displayed at their booth during the LNG 2023 energy trade show in Vancouver , British Columbia , Canada , July 12 , 2023. ( photo credit : REUTERS/CHRIS HELGREN/FILE PHOTO ) <p> Palestinians affected by the Israel-Hamas War have initiated legal action against British oil giant BP , alleging its involvement in supplying crude oil to Israel facilitates human rights abuses . <p> The claimants submitted a legal notice accusing the company of violating international human rights laws and its own corporate policies , the Guardian reported on Monday . <p> At the heart of the dispute is the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline , operated by BP , which carries oil from Azerbaijan through Georgia and Turkey to Israel . It reportedly supplies 28 percent of Israel 's crude oil , a critical resource for its military operations . <p> According to the claim , oil refined from the pipeline is being used to fuel jets , tanks , and bulldozers . <p> " Israel relies heavily on crude oil and refined petroleum imports to run its large fleet of fighter jets , tanks , and other military vehicles and operations , as well as the bulldozers implicated in clearing Palestinian homes and olive groves to make way for unlawful Israeli settlements , " the notice claimed . View of the Israeli Leviathan gas field gas processing rig near the Israeli city of Caesarea , on January 31 , 2019. ( credit : MARC ISRAEL SELLEM/POOL ) <h> Case alleges BP complicity <p> " Some fuel from refineries goes directly to the armed forces , while much of the rest appears to go to ordinary gas stations where military personnel can refuel their vehicles under a government contract . " <p> The claimants want to take the case to a British court , citing BP 's UK headquarters and the claimants ' British ties . <p> It also accuses BP of complicity in alleged war crimes and crimes against humanity , drawing attention to claims by a UN commission that Israel has committed war crimes during the conflict in Gaza . <p> The lead claimants include Palestinians who have suffered devastating personal losses during the war , including a British citizen who has lost 16 family members in airstrikes . Others face dire humanitarian conditions , displacement and lack of access to essential medical care . <p> The legal team stressed the physical and psychological harm endured by the claimants , including amputations and loss of loved ones and said they hoped the case would set a precedent for corporate accountability in conflict zones . <p> BP has not issued a public response to the claims or responded to media requests for comment . 
@@119252958 <h> " We managed to keep the mission a tight secret , even the soldiers did n't know what mission they were embarking on , " Lt.-Col. Tomer said . <p> " The achievement was tremendous , and the attack was historic , " Lt.-Col. Tomer , commander of the INS Herev , a Sa'ar 4.5-class missile boat that carried out naval attacks in Syria earlier this month , shared of the strike . <p> As the ship departed from its home port in Haifa , the soldiers thought they were heading to a live-fire training exercise at sea . <p> " I realized that we managed to keep the mission such a tight secret that even the soldiers did n't know what mission they were embarking on , " said the Lt.-Col. <p> " I told them that the ship was now sailing deep into Syrian waters , and the mission was to destroy the missile boat fleet of the Syrian Navy , " added Tomer . The soldiers were stunned . For a moment , they could n't believe what they were hearing . <p> " We trained and prepared for combat against the Syrian Navy during our service , though not necessarily in the context of this war , " he said . View of the remains of vessels in Syria 's Latakia port . December 11 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/Salaah Jeaar ) <p> While driving to base , Tomer received a call from his commander requesting him to take a call from a private direct line . Upon receiving the plan for the attack , the Lt.-Col. expressed surprise , noting , " We could n't believe for a moment that this operation would happen during our watch . " <p> " We were instructed to head out to sea that same day . By that night , we were ready to strike , " he added . <p> Minutes after the commander 's announcement to the soldiers , everyone was already at their stations . The ship sailed northward , passing the Lebanese coast and advancing toward the port of Latakia , the home base of the Syrian Navy . <p> After hours of sailing , INS Herev was ready for the attack . However , prior to the strike , the ship was redirected to assist the Air Force in destroying several anti-aircraft missile batteries that could jeopardize the Air Force 's superiority . <p> Within minutes , the ship began its precise strikes on the missile batteries . <p> " INS Herev is fully capable of conducting all types of operations -- offensive , defensive , and maneuver support missions , " the Lt.-Col. noted , further stating the ship operated " in defense missions , offensive operations in Gaza and Lebanon , and strikes in Syria . " <p> He added , " In Lebanon , we worked closely with Division 146 to support their maneuvers . We conducted precise strikes , providing firepower from the sea . We 're in a completely different place now regarding interoperability and cooperation . " <p> He asserted the maneuver was challenging because troops had " to simultaneously conduct both defense and offensive operations . We found ourselves in situations where , while preparing for an attack , a UAV would approach , and we had to intercept it . <p> " The team managed everything in parallel with outstanding synchronization and professionalism . This was the overall experience of the maneuver in Lebanon . " <h> Retreating from the Syrian coast <p> After the strike on the Syrian anti-aircraft batteries , the missile ship retreated from the Syrian coast and moved into open waters . The plan to attack Latakia was postponed by nearly 24 hours and rescheduled for late afternoon , just before sunset . <p> The mission was to execute precise missile strikes on 15 missile boats , which represented the bulk of the Syrian Navy 's maritime force . All 15 missile boats were hit within minutes . " They sank and were rendered out of service , " the Lt.-Col. said . <p> " The mission was n't truly over until we docked at the Haifa port . There , we were greeted by the Navy commander , V.-Adm . David Saar Salama , who personally thanked every soldier , " he added . <p> When asked about the Houthi threat and whether the missile ship crews are preparing for potential conflict in the Gulf , Tomer replied firmly , " It 's not my role to plan or dictate such missions . As commanders and a crew , we 're ready to execute any mission . The ship is prepared for anything required . " 
@@119255756 <p> As President-elect Donald Trump prepares to start his new term in January , ceasefire talks between Israel and Hamas have reportedly gained momentum . And in another notable move , the incoming president appears to be determined to reach such a deal as his aides have told Qatar to recall Hamas leaders to Doha in order to have negotiations . Even as the Middle East faces upheavals , Trump will have an opportunity to facilitate diplomacy in the region . <p> Trump has made it clear that he wishes to expand the Abraham Accords during his second term . The continued normalization of relations between Arab countries and the state of Israel has the potential to create goodwill and stability within the region . Most importantly , an extension of the accords could help the United States decrease its military footprint by allowing Middle Eastern regimes to cooperate and create stability . This may empower the U.S. to retrench and focus its resources on East Asia or the homefront , a priority for many America-first conservatives who support Trump . <p> Undeniably , the crown jewel for an Abraham Accords 2.0 would be an Israeli-Saudi normalization . But unlike the first round of the Abraham Accords in which the Trump administration largely sidestepped the issue of Palestine , America can not afford to ignore the Palestinian question if it wants Jerusalem and Riyadh to normalize relations . <p> If Trump decides to back Israel unconditionally during his second term , he could risk jeopardizing his plan for substantive peace in the Middle East , not to mention the continued viability of the Abraham Accords he brokered during his first term . Although Israel may be an ally , the interests of the United States , which include off-shoring from the region , should take precedence . Vice President-elect J.D. Vance himself has acknowledged that Americans and Israelis would sometimes have " distinct interests . " The question of Palestinian statehood and an end to the war in Gaza should fit in this bucket . <p> Although Netanyahu may agree to a ceasefire without a total eradication of Hamas from the Gaza Strip , the U.S. should be prepared to apply pressure to end the war if needed . On the issue of statehood for the Palestinians , it is certain Netanyahu and his cabinet will likely block any attempt for a Palestinian peace and a path to statehood . In both these scenarios it would be warranted for Trump to consider withholding offensive weapons on American interests alone . <p> An analogous argument was made by Senator Jon Ossoff in his support of a measure to block certain offensive weapons to Israel last month due to humanitarian concerns in Gaza . The Democrat from Georgia asserted that foreign governments were not " entitled as a matter of right to American weapons with no strings attached " and that the U.S. could insist that foreign countries use weaponry in a manner " consistent with our interests , values , and our laws . " <p> In pursuance of an Abraham Accords 2.0 , Trump should similarly contend that America 's provisioning of its own offensive weapons ought to only be made if the country 's legitimate interests are taken into account . This conditioning of aid would likely prove successful as Israel would not have been able to fight in Gaza " beyond a few months " without support from the United States . These controls would n't necessitate a complete stop in aid for Israel , as support for Israel 's defensive military capabilities in the case of an attack and the sharing of intelligence could still be maintained . <p> Considering the pro-Israel cabinet and administration that he has appointed thus far , it is conceivable that Trump may choose not to apply heightened pressure on Israel to end the war in Gaza and to allow for a path to statehood for Palestinians . However , if Trump wants to expand the landmark Abraham Accords that he brokered to Saudi Arabia and Oman , he will have to be willing to play hardball with the Israelis . <p> Kevin Joseph is a recent graduate from the University of Illinois who majored in Political Science and History . He has worked as a Summer Fellow in the U.S. Senate . 
@@119276246 <h> Could the Houthis be next ? Yemenis reflect on the fall of Syria 's al-Assad <p> Bashar al-Assad 's fall was a blow to Iran and its regional supporters , but anti-Houthi Yemenis see a rare opportunity . <p> Fighters recruited into the Houthi group ride on top of an armoured personnel carrier in a demonstration to show solidarity with Palestinians in the Gaza Strip , in Sanaa , Yemen , August 24 , 2024 Khaled Abdullah/Reuters <p> Some say the fall of the Iran-allied Houthis in Yemen -- who control Sanaa and much of northern and western Yemen -- may be the " next surprise " in the region . <p> " My friends have different views . Some called me , happy about the eclipse of the Syrian regime , and others were sad over such a scenario . We 're a highly divided society , " said Saleh . <h> Crying over the fall of Damascus <p> Al-Assad 's defeat feels personal to Houthi supporters who see themselves as part of a broader , Iran-led , " axis of resistance " to Israel and the United States . <p> Under al-Assad , Syria was considered a key part of the axis and a route for the transfer of weapons between Iran , Iraq and Lebanon . <p> Advertisement <p> Abdulrahman Ali , a 40-year-old in Sanaa , says the demise of the former Syrian regime is a " massive loss " . <p> " When I watched the news on the fall of Damascus to Turkey-backed Syrian militant groups , I cried . Personally , I do n't care about Bashar . What matters is the continued strength of the axis of resistance , " Ali told Al Jazeera . <p> The Houthis , who held an armed takeover of Sanaa in September 2014 and then , in 2015 , forced out the **26;810;TOOLONG government , are part of Iran 's ' axis of resistance ' , which includes the Islamic Resistance in Iraq , the Popular Mobilisation Forces in Iraq , and Lebanon 's Hezbollah . The former Syrian government was also considered part of the axis . <p> The Houthi takeover prompted a war as the ousted government and regional allies -- led by Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates -- tried to wrest back control of Yemen . <p> In April 2022 , a United Nations-sponsored ceasefire halted the fighting , but control remains divided among various groups , including the Houthis , and the Yemeni government and the Southern Transitional Council in the south and east . <p> Today , pro-Houthi Yemenis like Ali say the war may well start up again in Yemen . <p> " The current scenario in Syria may entice anti-Ansar Allah groups to launch a war , " he said , using the official name for the Houthis . " This will throw us into a new cycle of violence . " <p> The Houthi leadership is not scared of a renewal of fighting , Mohammed Ali al-Houthi , a senior member of the Houthi Supreme Political Council in Sanaa , said in a televised interview on December 12 . <p> Advertisement <p> He added that the Houthis were ready should the " aggression " on Yemen resume , using a term the Houthis employ for attacks by the forces pitted against them . <p> " The Yemeni people do not care about threats , " al-Houthi added . " Any foolishness committed by the Israeli enemy against Yemen will trigger the military operations of the Yemeni armed forces . " <h> ' Ending the Iranian presence ' <p> On the other side of the Yemeni divide are millions opposed to the Houthis who see al-Assad 's fall as a victory for freedom and a defeat for tyranny . <p> " Finally , the Syrian people have justice , " said Faisal Mohammed , a 39-year-old teacher in Taiz , a city largely held by anti-Houthi forces that suffered for years as a result of a siege imposed by the rebel group . " Assad 's fall gives us hope that the Arab world can rise above oppression . " <p> Faisal Mohammed sees events in Syria as a message to the Houthis . <p> " The Assads ' dynastic rule has crumbled after 54 years ... no matter how long the Houthis continue , they will meet the same destiny . " <p> With Iranian support over the past decade , including weapons and experts , the Houthis have fought numerous battles against pro-government forces in Yemen and tightened their grip in large swaths of Yemen . <p> The group has appeared secure , militarily and politically , and Saudi Arabia has for years been looking for a way out of its involvement in Yemen , appearing close to a deal with the Houthis at times . The anti-Houthi camp , on the other hand , has often appeared weak and divided , with many anti-Houthi Yemenis disappointed with the failures of their representatives . <p> However , events in the wider region , including the general weakness of Iran and its allies as a result of their conflict with Israel , have given many in the anti-Houthi camp hope that things have changed . <p> " Hezbollah has suffered huge losses at the hands of Israel , and Assad 's regime is eliminated . Iran could do nothing , " Faisal Mohammed said . " Therefore , the Houthis will likely meet a similar destiny , and this means the Iranian presence in Yemen will be uprooted . " <p> Mohammed Abdu , a Taiz-based Yemeni journalist with a focus on politics and war , told Al Jazeera that a fight to dislodge the Houthis would be " challenging " . <p> " Houthi military force and prowess is huge . They have thousands of fighters and weapon arsenals , " he said . <p> " However , a collective effort by the Yemeni government and its regional and international allies can quicken the Houthi collapse . " <h> A cautionary tale <p> For some Yemenis , however , al-Assad 's fall serves as a warning more than anything else . <p> " Syria shows us that removing a dictator is not the end of the story , " said Yunis Saleh , a shopkeeper in Sanaa . " What matters is what comes next . If Syria does not find peace , we will face the same endless cycle of violence . " <p> Yemenis weary of war echo this sentiment , regardless of their political affiliations . For them , al-Assad 's fall is a reminder of the need for a comprehensive solution to Yemen 's decade-long crisis . <p> Advertisement <p> The war between the Saudi Arabian-backed Yemeni government and the Iran-aligned Houthis has caused a humanitarian catastrophe . <p> The World Health Organization ( WHO ) said in March this year that as the conflict in Yemen enters its 10th year , more than half of the country 's population is in desperate need of aid . <p> An estimated 17.8 million people require health assistance , 50 percent of them children ; 4.5 million people are displaced ; and more than 3,700 schools have been damaged or repurposed , the UN said . <h> ' By peace or by force ' <p> Abdulsalam Mohammed , the head of the Yemeni Abaad Studies and Research Center , told Al Jazeera that the Houthis ' actions in the waterways around Yemen , where the group has attacked ships ostensibly in solidarity with Palestinians in Gaza under attack by Israel , had led to international isolation , and a campaign of air attacks led by the United States and the United Kingdom . <p> The Houthis have also conducted missile and drone attacks on Israel , leading to Israeli attacks on Yemen . <p> " There is a national , regional and international decision to end the rule of the Houthis in Yemen , whether by peace or by force , " Abdulsalam Mohammed said . " Time will tell how this will materialise . " <p> Abdulsalam Mohammed also believes that this turn away from the Houthis extends to the Gulf . <p> " The Houthi drones and missiles have constantly threatened the oil-producing Gulf states , " Abdulsalam Mohammed said . " Therefore , when the opportunity comes to weaken the Houthis , the Gulf will capitalise on it . Similarly , Houthi opponents in Yemen will prioritise a military solution as the group 's fall becomes possible . " <p> Advertisement <p> The defeat of the " axis of resistance " in Syria and its losses in Lebanon could also pave the way for the fall of the Houthis in Yemen , according to Abdulsalam Mohammed . <p> " The Houthis have been looking for new allies , such as Russia , " he said . " However , this does not prevent the scenario of Hezbollah 's collapse or the fall of al-Assad 's rule from being repeated in Yemen . " <p> " This is a golden opportunity for the Yemeni government to regain control of provinces it lost to the Houthis over the past years of war . " <p> But that might be easier said than done . There have been few indications that anti-Houthi forces are gearing up for a major offensive . <p> The Houthis control some of the most populated parts of Yemen , but the territory is also largely mountainous and easier to defend than the more flat terrain of the former Syrian opposition 's advance towards Damascus before it fell . The Houthis also still have the support of many of Yemen 's influential tribes , in particular , the tribes that surround Sanaa , which are vital to any chance of taking back control of the capital . <p> Saleh , the history graduate in Sanaa , described the atmosphere in Yemen as calm for now , but added that it could " explode at any moment " . <p> " The Houthis wait for a life-and-death battle , and their opponents remain hesitant to begin a war , " Saleh said . " It may begin at any time , but its end will be indefinite . " 
@@119276248 <p> It is not just because she has five children , nor that they have been displaced several times since the start of Israel 's brutal war on Gaza 14 months ago and are now living in cramped , cold conditions in a makeshift tent in the al-Mawasi area of Khan Younis . Samar is also a victim of domestic violence and has no way to escape her abuser in the cramped conditions of this camp . <p> Two days ago , her husband beat her around the face leaving her with a swollen cheek and a blood spot in her eye . Her eldest daughter clung to her all night following that attack , which happened in front of the children . <p> Samar does not want to break up her family -- they have already been forced to move from Gaza City , to the Shati camp in Rafah and now to Khan Younis -- and the children are young . Her eldest , Laila , is just 15 . She also has 12-year-old Zain , 10-year-old Dana , Lana , seven , and Adi , five , to think about . <p> On the day that Al Jazeera visits her , she is trying to keep her two younger girls occupied with schoolwork . Sitting together in the small tent , which is made from rags , the three have spread out some notebooks around them . Little Dana is huddled up close to her mother , seemingly wanting to give her support . Her younger sister is crying from hunger and Samar seems at a loss as to how to help them both . <p> Advertisement <p> As a displaced family , the loss of privacy has added a whole new layer of pressure . <p> " I lost my privacy as a woman and a wife in this place . I do n't want to say that my life was perfect before the war , but I was able to express what was inside me in conversation with my husband . I could scream without anyone hearing me , " Samar says . " I could control my children more in my home . Here , I live in the street and the cover of concealment has been removed from my life . " <p> Palestinian women and children sit in a makeshift tent next to the rubble of a house in Khan Younis , southern Gaza Strip , on October 7 , 2024 Mohammed Salem/Reuters <p> A loud argument between a husband and wife drifts through from the tent next door . Samar 's face turns red with embarrassment and sadness as bad language fills the air . She does not want her children to hear this . <p> Her instinct is to tell the children to go out and play , but Laila is washing dishes in a small bowl of water and the argument next door brings her own problems back into sharp focus . <p> " Every day , I suffer from anxiety because of the disagreements with my husband . Two days ago , it was a great shock for me that he hit me in this way in front of my children . All our neighbours heard my screams and crying and came to calm the situation between us . <p> " I felt broken , " Samar says , worried the neighbours will think she is to blame -- that her husband shouts so much because she is a bad wife . <p> " Sometimes , when he screams and curses , I stay quiet so that those around us think he 's screaming at someone else . I try to preserve my dignity a little , " she says . <p> Samar tries to preempt her husband 's anger by attempting to solve the problems facing the family herself . She visits the aid workers every day to ask for food . She believes it is the pressures of the war that have made her husband this way . <p> Before the war , he worked in a small carpentry shop with a friend and this kept him busy . There were fewer arguments . <p> Advertisement <p> Now , she says : " Because of the severity of the disagreements between me and my husband , I wanted a divorce . But I hesitated for the sake of my children . " <p> Samar goes to psychological support sessions with other women , to try to release some of the negative energy and anxiety building inside her . It helps her to hear that she is not alone . " I hear the stories of many women and I try to console myself with what I am going through , through their experiences . " <p> As she talks , Samar gets up to start preparing food . She is fretting about when her husband will return and whether there will be enough to eat . A plate of beans with cold bread is all she can rustle up right now . She can not light the fire because there is no gas . <p> Suddenly , Samar goes silent , fearful that a voice outside belongs to her husband . It does not . <p> She asks her daughters to sit down and look at their maths problems . She whispers : " He went out shouting at Adi . I hope he is in a good mood . " <p> Women who have been displaced multiple times are living under intense pressure in extremely difficult circumstances File : Enas Rami/AP <h> ' The war did this to us ' <p> Later on , Samar 's husband , Karim Badwan , 42 , sits beside his daughters , crammed inside the small tent they are living in . <p> He is despairing . " This is not a life . I ca n't comprehend what I 'm living . I 'm trying to adapt to these difficult circumstances , but I can not . I 've turned from a practical and professional man into a man who gets so angry all the time . " <p> Karim says he is deeply ashamed that he has hit his wife on several occasions since the war began . <p> Advertisement <p> " I hope the war ends before my wife 's energy runs out and she leaves me , " he says . " My wife is a good woman , so she tolerates what I say . " <p> A tear rolls down Samar 's bruised face as she listens . <p> Karim says he knows what he is doing is wrong . Before the war , he never dreamed he would be capable of harming her . <p> " I had friends who used to beat their wives . I used to say : ' How does he sleep at night ? ' Unfortunately , now I do it . <p> " I did it more than once , but the hardest time was when I left a mark on her face and eye . I admit that this is a huge failure in terms of self-control , " Karim says , his voice trembling . <p> " The pressures of war are great . I left my home , my work and my future and I am sitting here in a tent , helpless in front of my children . I ca n't find a job and when I leave the tent , I feel that if I talk to anyone I will lose my temper . " <p> Karim knows his wife and children have endured a great deal . " I apologise to them for my behaviour , but I keep doing it . Maybe I need medication , but my wife does not deserve all this from me . I am trying to stop so that she does n't have to leave me . " <p> Palestinian women and children who fled their homes due to Israeli attacks , shelter in a tent camp in Rafah in the southern Gaza Strip , on December 24 , 2023 Ibraheem Abu Mustafa/Reuters <p> Samar 's despair is compounded by the loss of her own family who she left in the north to flee the bombing there with her husband and his family . Now , she is desperately lonely . <p> Her greatest fear is that she will completely burn out and become unable to care for her family , as she worries her husband already has . <p> Advertisement <p> The responsibility for finding water and food , caring for the children , and thinking about their future , has all taken its toll and she lives in a constant state of fear . <h> ' Trying to be strong for my mother ' <p> As the eldest child , Laila is developing severe anxiety from the fighting between her father and mother and she fears for her mother . <p> She says : " My father and mother quarrel every day . My mother suffers from a strange nervous state . Sometimes she shouts at me for no reason . I try to bear it and understand her condition so that I do n't lose her . I do not like seeing her in this state , but the war did all of this to us . " <p> Laila still sees Karim as a good father and blames the world for allowing this brutal war to go on for so long . " My father shouts at me a lot . Sometimes he hits my sisters . My mother cries all night and wakes up with swollen eyes from sadness over what we are living . " <p> She sits in her bed for long hours thinking about their lives before the war and her plans to study English . <h> ' Unimaginable conditions ' <p> The family is not alone . In Gaza , there has been a marked rise in domestic violence with many women attending psychological support sessions offered by aid workers in clinics . <p> Kholoud Abu Hajir , a psychologist , has met many victims since the start of the war at clinics in the displacement camps . However , she fears there are far more who are too ashamed to talk about it . <p> Advertisement <p> " There is a great secrecy and fear among the women about talking about it , " she says . " I have received many cases of violence away from group sessions -- women who want to talk about what they are suffering and ask for help . " <p> Living in a constant state of instability and insecurity , enduring repeated displacement and being forced to live in tents crowded very closely together have deprived women of privacy , leaving them with nowhere to turn . <p> " There is no comprehensive psychological treatment system , " Abu Hajir tells Al Jazeera . " We only work in emergency situations . The cases we deal with really require multiple sessions , and some of them are difficult cases where women need protection . <p> " There are very severe cases of violence that have reached sexual assault , and this is a dangerous thing . " <p> Women and children stand nearby while people bury the bodies of Palestinians killed in Israeli attacks at a mass grave in Rafah , in the southern Gaza Strip , on March 7 , 2024 Mohammed Salem/Reuters <p> The number of divorces has risen -- many between spouses who have been separated by the Israeli armed corridor between the north and the south . <p> The war has taken a terrible toll on women and children , particularly , Abu Hajir says . <p> Nevin al-Barbari , 35 , a psychologist , says it is impossible to give children in Gaza the support they need in these conditions . <p> " Unfortunately , what children are experiencing during the war can not be described . They need very long psychological support sessions . Hundreds of thousands of children have lost their homes , lost a family member , and many of them have lost their entire family . " <p> Advertisement <p> Being forced to live in difficult -- and sometimes violent -- family circumstances has made life immeasurably worse for many . <p> " There is very clear and widespread family violence among the displaced in particular ... Children 's psychological and behavioural states have been affected very negatively . Some children have become very violent and hit other children violently . " <p> Recently , al-Barbari came across the case of a 10-year-old child who had hit another with a stick , causing severe injury and bleeding . <p> " When I met this child , he kept crying , " she says . " He thought that I would punish him . When I asked him about his family , he told me that his mother and father have a big fight every day and his mother goes to her family 's tent for days . <p> " He said he missed his home , his room and the way his family used to be . This child is a very common example of thousands of children . " <p> It will be a long road to recovery for these children , al-Barbari says . " There are no schools to occupy them . Children are forced to bear great responsibilities , filling water and waiting in long lines for food aid . There are no recreational areas for them . <p> " There are so many stories that we do not know about , that these children are living every day . " 
@@119276251 <h> Israeli forces kill dozens in Gaza as ceasefire talks face challenges <p> At least 25 Palestinians are killed across the besieged enclave since dawn as Hamas says new conditions by Israel delay a ceasefire . <p> Men and children inspect the site of an Israeli attack on tents sheltering Palestinians displaced from Beit Lahiya at a camp in Khan Younis in the southern Gaza Strip Bashar Taleb/AFP <p> Published On 25 Dec 202425 Dec 2024 <p> Israeli forces are pounding the besieged Gaza Strip , killing at least 25 Palestinians and wounding dozens more as indirect ceasefire talks between Israel and Hamas face more obstacles . <p> Medics in the bombarded enclave said the Israeli military targeted yet another school sheltering displaced families on Wednesday in the Gaza City suburb of Sheikh Radwan . <p> The strike killed three Palestinians , including a child , and injured several others . <p> The attack came shortly after an earlier strike targeted a residential home in Gaza City , killing a pregnant woman . <p> According to Al Jazeera 's Hind Khoudary , reporting from Deir el-Balah in central Gaza , medics were able to save the baby but " lost the mother " . <p> " The situation is dire on every level across the Gaza Strip , " Khoudary said . <p> " Elsewhere , a very famous Palestinian writer Walaa Jumaa al-Ifranji was killed along with her husband Ahmed Saeed Salama in an Israeli attack on their home south of the Nuseirat refugee camp , " in central Gaza , she added . <p> Advertisement <p> An Israeli attack on the Bureij refugee camp in central Gaza also killed two people on Wednesday . <p> Separately , several Palestinians were killed and wounded in al-Mawasi , an area Israel has declared a " safe zone " for people forced to flee their homes in southern Gaza 's Khan Younis , where the military said it carried out a strike against a Hamas fighter . <p> The Israeli military routinely targets displacement camps as well as schools-turned-shelters , killing mostly women and children in its genocide since October last year , which has killed more than 45,000 Palestinians . <p> The military also targets hospitals and medical facilities . In the besieged north , where Israeli forces launched a renewed ground offensive more than two months ago , one of the last partially operating hospitals in Gaza has come under intense Israeli attack . <p> An Israeli siege on Kamal Adwan Hospital has intensified over the past few days , and Al Jazeera 's Hani Mahmoud reports that it has now been " rendered nonoperational given all the constant attacks and the use of explosive devices " . <p> Gaza 's Ministry of Health said Israeli forces have also continued to besiege two other medical facilities that are barely operational as they surround Beit Lahiya , Beit Hanoon and Jabalia . <p> The Israeli army forced officials at the Indonesian Hospital to evacuate patients and staff on Tuesday and continued to operate close to nearby Kamal Adwan Hospital . They also ordered the emptying of that hospital , but officials there have refused , citing risks to dozens of patients . <p> Advertisement <p> Palestinians have accused Israel of seeking to permanently depopulate northern Gaza to create a buffer zone . <p> The Israeli attacks came as Palestinians in Gaza saw yet another sombre Christmas . <p> Pope Francis denounced the " extremely grave " humanitarian situation in Gaza and appealed for the freeing of Israeli captives held by Hamas in his traditional Christmas address at the Vatican . <p> " May there be a ceasefire , may the hostages be released and aid be given to the people worn out by hunger and by war , " he said . <h> Ceasefire talks hampered <p> Meanwhile , Hamas and Israel traded blame on Wednesday over the failure to conclude a ceasefire agreement despite progress reported by both sides in the past days . <p> Hamas said Israel had set new conditions while Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu accused the group of going back on understandings already reached . <p> " The occupation has set new conditions related to withdrawal , ceasefire , prisoners , and the return of the displaced , which has delayed reaching the agreement that was available , " Hamas said in a statement . <p> Hamas said , however , that it was showing flexibility and the talks , mediated by Qatar and Egypt , were going in a serious direction . <p> Netanyahu blamed Hamas , saying the group " continues to lie , is reneging on understandings that have already been reached and is continuing to create difficulties in the negotiations " . <p> Israeli negotiators returned to Israel from Qatar on Tuesday evening for consultations about a deal after a significant week of talks , Netanyahu 's office said on Tuesday . <p> Advertisement <p> The United States and the two Arab mediators have stepped up efforts to conclude a deal in the past two weeks . 
@@119276253 <p> In his Christmas address , Pope Francis also appealed for peace in Ukraine and Sudan . <p> Pope Francis delivers his traditional Christmas Day Urbi et Orbi speech and blessing from the main balcony of Saint Peter 's Basilica at the Vatican , on December 25 , 2024 Yara Nardi/Reuters <p> Published On 25 Dec 202425 Dec 2024 <p> Pope Francis has denounced the " extremely grave " humanitarian situation in Gaza while appealing for the release of captives and a ceasefire in the war-torn coastal enclave . <p> In his Christmas " Urbi et Orbi " ( to the city and world ) address on Wednesday at the Vatican , Francis also appealed for peace in Ukraine and Sudan . <p> " I think of the Christian communities in Israel and Palestine , particularly in Gaza , where the humanitarian situation is extremely grave . May there be a ceasefire , may the hostages be released and aid be given to the people worn out by hunger and by war , " he said . <p> Israel has killed at least 45,361 Palestinians in its war on Gaza and wounded 107,803 since October 7 , 2023 , the day a Hamas-led operation was launched into Israel during which 1,139 people were killed and about 200 were taken captive . <p> Israel 's purported " retaliation " has displaced nearly the entire population of Gaza and left much of the enclave in ruins . <p> The 88-year-old , celebrating the 12th Christmas of his pontificate , called for an end to conflicts , political , social or military , in places including Lebanon , Mali , Mozambique , Haiti , Venezuela and Nicaragua . <p> Advertisement <p> " I invite every individual , and all people of all nations ... to become pilgrims of hope , to silence the sounds of arms and overcome divisions , " the pope said . <h> End to the war in Ukraine <p> Speaking from the central balcony of Saint Peter 's Basilica to thousands of people in the square below , the pope said : " May the sound of arms be silenced in war-torn Ukraine . " <p> He also called for " gestures of dialogue and encounter , in order to achieve a just and lasting peace " . <p> Francis was criticised by Ukrainian officials this year when he said the country should have the courage of the " white flag " to negotiate an end to the war with Russia . <p> Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy had previously ruled out engaging in peace talks without the restoration of Ukraine 's pre-war borders . But Zelenskyy has shown an increasing willingness to enter negotiations in the weeks since Donald Trump 's re-election as US president . <p> Earlier in December , Zelenskyy raised the idea of a diplomatic settlement that would involve a " freezing " of the current battle lines and the deployment of foreign troops in Ukraine . Russia has demanded that Ukraine abandon its ambitions to join the NATO military alliance . <p> The head of the Catholic Church also extended his call for a silencing of arms in Sudan , which has been ravaged by 20 months of brutal civil war where millions are under the threat of famine . <p> " May the Son of the Most High sustain the efforts of the international community to facilitate access to humanitarian aid for the civilian population of Sudan and to initiate new negotiations for a ceasefire , " he said . <p> Advertisement <p> Earlier this week , a United Nations-backed global hunger-monitoring group said famine was spreading in Sudan . <p> The war began in April 2023 when long-simmering tensions between the military and paramilitary group Rapid Support Forces exploded into open fighting in the capital , Khartoum , before spreading to the rest of the country . <p> The conflict has been marked by atrocities , including ethnically motivated killings and rapes , according to the UN and human rights groups . <p> The International Criminal Court is investigating alleged war crimes and crimes against humanity . 
@@119276255 <h> How a Sudanese refugee made my Christmas less pessimistic <p> People hug near the state Christmas trees outside of the White House in Washington , DC , as the US capital readies for the Christmas holiday on December 6 , 2024 Photo by Allison Robert/AFP <p> As a child growing up in the 1980s in Washington , DC , Christmas was a time when the usual monotony of my Catholic school existence gave way to an indescribable magic . It was not so much the presents as the sense that reality had been temporarily suspended and replaced by something far more invigorating -- which I suppose is part of the reason I insisted on believing in Santa Claus until I was 10 years old . <p> Of course , mine was a relatively privileged childhood in the United States capital , an imperial headquarters that continues to this day to embody the racism and socioeconomic inequality that governs life in the so-called " land of the free . " While I knew vaguely of such domestic issues growing up , I knew even less of my country 's contributions to global suffering ; in my birth year of 1982 , for example , Washington had greenlit the Israeli invasion of Lebanon that killed tens of thousands of people . <p> Closer to home , the decade of the 1980s was characterised by US backing for mass right-wing slaughter in Central America , all in the noble pursuit of making the world safe for capitalism . That the tedium of Catholic school was my greatest earthly complaint meant that I was doing much better than a whole lot of folks -- something that became even clearer when I abandoned the US in 2003 , at the age of 21 , in favour of an itinerant lifestyle that brought me into contact with the fallout of US misdeeds from Colombia to Vietnam . <p> Advertisement <p> I am now 42 , and I did not have high hopes for Christmas when in mid-December I flew from Mexico to DC , where my parents had returned to live -- following their own lengthy stretch abroad -- shortly before my father 's death last year . This year , it was not just my dad 's absence that seemed to preemptively put a damper on festivities . The potential for indescribable magic would seem to have been fairly soundly obliterated by the dismal terrestrial state of affairs and the US-backed Israeli genocide that continues to rage in the Gaza Strip , where almost the entire population has been forcibly displaced . <p> Meanwhile , America 's conversion of Christmas into a giant traffic jam of Amazon delivery trucks merely drives home the all-consuming presence of apocalyptic capitalism and the reduction of humanity to an infinite soul-sucking series of economic transactions . <p> And yet , ironically , my first inkling of holiday cheer here in DC was triggered by just such a transaction-based interaction , when a Sudanese driver working for the ride-share company my mother uses gave me a hug . <p> Hailing from the Sudanese capital of Khartoum , the man -- we 'll call him Alsafi -- had registered his enthusiasm at the sight of my " Free Palestine " sweatshirt when he arrived to pick me up . Also 42 , he had worked as a human rights lawyer in Sudan -- itself no stranger to systematic killing and mass forced displacement -- prior to fleeing the country in 2013 after one too many arrest-and-torture sessions . <p> Upon getting to the United States , however , Alsafi had determined that the American dream was not at all what it was cracked up to be . Not only did he regularly find himself on the receiving end of overtly racist comportment , he had also quickly tired of the oppressive consumerism that has become a substitute for life itself . He , too , was now plotting his exit from the country . Needless to say , we had much to talk about . <p> Advertisement <p> Days before Christmas , Alsafi invited me to dinner at a lowkey Ethiopian restaurant in Arlington , Virginia , just across the bridge from DC . I had spent a month in Ethiopia in 2016 ; Alsafi had spent several months there in 2013 in between fleeing Sudan and relocating to the United States . Over Ethiopian Habesha beer and injera bearing mounds of lentils and collard greens , I heard some of the details of Alsafi 's Sudanese carceral experiences . <p> During one of his detentions , he was blindfolded and beaten while his torturers continuously commanded him to move to the corner of the room . He stumbled around in search of the corner , to no avail . " It was funny , " he remarked to me with a genuine laugh . " When they took the blindfold off , I saw there were no corners in the room after all . It was round . " <p> Alsafi was not a fan of driving , but had to put in long hours in order to support his family in Egypt and the United Arab Emirates , where they had sought refuge from Sudan 's ongoing violence . On the drive back to my mother 's place in DC , he pointed out key landmarks in a geography he by now knew far better than I : the Pentagon building , the Watergate hotel , the patch of tents housing homeless persons whom Alsafi informed me had also been forcibly displaced in the interest of " security " when in July Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu had descended upon the US capital to make the case for genocide . <p> There was something paradoxically uplifting about our shared pessimism , and the evening ended with another hug in front of my mom 's apartment building -- the lobby of which now hosted a gigantic Christmas tree and an ever-multiplying heap of Amazon delivery boxes . Alsafi went on his way , and I was left with the reminder that even in capitalist-conquered society there are still humans out there -- which might just be as magical as it gets . <p> Advertisement <p> The views expressed in this article are the author 's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera 's editorial stance . 
@@119279249 <h> Faithful flock to St. Patrick 's Cathedral to celebrate Christmas <p> NEW YORK - It 's Christmas Day and the first night Hanukkah , the first time the two have happened on the same day since 2005 . <p> Cardinal Timothy Dolan greeted the faithful at St. Patrick 's Cathedral . Several Christmas Masses were being celebrated throughout Christmas , including one shared by livestream . The faithful also gathered for the traditional Midnight Mass . <p> " There 's no place like home for the holidays , " Dolan said during a Christmas Day Mass . " We are bonded by a faith . A faith that the baby whose birth we celebrate this Christmas happens to be the savior of the world . " <p> The pews were filled for the annual Christmas tradition celebrating the birth of Jesus Christ . Midnight Mass was a ticketed event . Other public Masses were standing room only . <p> " No surprise , we admit it . We find ourselves in darkness . Our world , our country , our city , within our families , within ourselves . So no wonder with the darkness around us , no wonder we so exuberantly celebrate the birth of Jesus , " Dolan said . <p> The nearly cathedral , which opened in 1879 , was filled with music . <p> Dolan also delivered a message of hope . <p> " Because we have a God whose first word to us was ' Let there be light . ' And we celebrate tonight the birth of the one who assured us ' I am the light of the world , ' " Dolan said . <p> Parishioners traveled from near and far to attend . <p> " Sometimes we need to come back home and get rejuvenated . It was beautiful . It was emotional . I got chills . I was really happy he was finally able to receive communion in a place he was baptized , " Glenda Esperance said . <p> " It 's inspiring , " Marie Corcoran said . <p> " Every year we come to see the tree , and then we come to Mass before we can wrap the gifts , " one woman from Washington , D.C. said . <p> " This Cathedral is magnificent , and we wanted to experience that , " Yvette Fields said . <p> " Being with your family and loved ones , that 's the true meaning of Christmas , and that 's why I 'm here with my family as well , " Andrew Oster said . <p> Hundreds also gathered for Midnight Mass in Bethlehem , marking a somber Christmas under the shadow of war in Gaza . And worshipers in Paris gathered for the first Midnight Mass held at the Cathedral of Notre Dame since a devastating fire in 2019 . <p> What 's more , Wednesday is also the first night of Hanukkah , which celebrates an ancient miracle when a single night 's worth of oil lasted eight nights . There are two menorahs in New York City which claim to be the world 's largest - one of them is in Midtown , and the other is in Grand Army Plaza . They 'll both be lit Wednesday night at sundown . An additional candle will be added for each night of the holiday . 
@@119282546 <h> Along with highlighting the abuse suffered by hostages in Hamas captivity , the report also outlined hostages ' struggles after their release and return home . <p> Families of Israelis held hostage by Hamas terrorists in Gaza standing outside a tunnel installation at Hostages Square in Tel Aviv on January 13 , 2024 ( photo credit : TOMER NEUBERG/FLASH90 ) <p> Israel has drafted an official report to be submitted to the United Nations that details the abuse inflicted upon hostages who survived Hamas captivity , N12 news site reported on Wednesday . <p> The report specifically outlines the conditions of hostages released in the November 2023 deal , the Israeli media outlet noted . <p> N12 stated that the report includes extensive testimonies from released hostages who were deliberately separated from their family members who were also taken hostage on October 7 . <h> Hostage women turned into slaves by terrorists , N12 reports <p> Children taken hostage were forced to watch videos of the October 7 massacre , hostages underwent surgeries without anesthesia or proper medication , others were forced to soil themselves , and female hostages were turned into slaves , N12 stated , citing the report . <p> According to the report , shortly prior to the hostages ' release , Hamas increased food portions to create the impression that hostages were kept in good condition . N12 reported that children lost between 5-10 kg. in weight , while adults lost around 15 kg . A woman casts a shadow as she walks past a banner calling for the release of the hostages kidnapped during the deadly October 7 , 2023 attack by Hamas , amid the ongoing conflict in Gaza between Israel and Hamas , in Tel Aviv , Israel , December 5 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/Stoyan Nenov TPX IMAGES OF THE DAY ) <p> Along with highlighting the abuse suffered by hostages in Hamas captivity , the report also outlined hostages ' struggles after their release and return home . <p> The report noted that released hostages suffer from severe trauma , with many rarely leaving their homes , struggling to return to routines , and being afraid to sleep alone . Many still suffer from physical pain and released children struggle with food , either hoarding food or eating less . 
@@119282552 <p> The Consulate General of Israel in Atlanta has created a new initiative in which participants can add names and photos of those still held captive in Gaza to create unique ornaments to raise awareness of and call for the release of the hostages . <p> " As Christmas approached this year , a time when families come together , we wanted to use the opportunity to raise awareness to the fact that there are still 100 hostages , among them seven Americans , who should also be home with their families " , Anat Sultan-Dadon , Consul General of Israel to the Southeastern United States , told The Jerusalem Post . <p> The consulate has reached out to several prominent churches in Atlanta who have agreed to display the special ornaments on their Christmas trees . In addition , they produced an explanatory sheet through which individuals can also print the ornaments and hang them on their Christmas trees . <h> Details of the ornaments <p> The ornaments include a photo of each of the 100 hostages still held captive by Hamas , which will be hung on the Christmas tree using a yellow ribbon associated with the struggle for their release . <p> " The First Baptist Church of Atlanta , a mega church , was the first to agree to the initiative , " Anat Sultan-Dadon told the Post . Israel 's Atlanta consulate creates initiative where participants create ornaments for Gaza hostages . ( credit : FOREIGN MINISTRY ) <p> " Israel is blessed with many supportive friends out there , and many of them do n't know how they can actively support Israel at this time . This tree is a way to encourage them to act and to use their voices for the hostages and for Israel . " 
@@119282554 <h> Atid Le'Otef " Movement CEO Ehud Cohen said that the 2024 holiday would not be as joyful in the past as Jews needed to continue to remember the hostages held in captivity by Hamas . <p> A rally calling for the release of the Israeli hostages held captive by Hamas in Gaza , marking 442 days since the start of the war between Israel and Hamas , at Hostage Square in Tel Aviv , December 21 2024. ( photo credit : AVSHALOM SASSONI/FLASH90 ) <p> An initiative is seeking to invite Jews worldwide to recite a newly drafted Hanukkah prayer for hostages , October 7 victims , and IDF soldiers , Tzohar Rabbinical Organization chairman and founder Rabbi David Stav told The Jerusalem Post on Wednesday . <p> The special prayer composed by Rabbi Yuval Cherlow in a collaboration between Tzohar and the Atid Le'Otef Movement is directed at praying for those impacted by the Hamas-led massacre and the ensuing war , taking advantage of the opportunity presented by what Stav said was a tradition that the hour of the Hanukkah candle lighting was one in which prayers and requests received more consideration by God . <h> Hanukkah prayer <p> " Our Father in Heaven . Amidst the light of the Hanukkah candles that will illuminate Jewish homes and reveal the miracle of your presence in our world and recall the strength and heroic spirit of the Maccabees , and the salvation of the victory of those days , " reads the prayer . <p> " We come and plead before you that you will similarly bring light to all those who remain trapped in darkness : To all the captives imprisoned in tunnels of darkness and are desperately seeking salvation and return to their homes . To all their families and those who wish for their safety and welfare , while dark shadows continue to fill their worlds . <p> " To all those who have been forced out of their homes , while their hearts and homes remain dark . To all the bereaved families whose lives have been permanently darkened . And all those who have been injured in body and spirit . Hashem , please fill your world with light ! And fulfill for us that which is written : ' A new light will shine upon Zion , and we will all quickly merit its light . ' " New Hanukkah prayer for the return of the hostages . ( credit : Tzohar and the Atid Le'Otef ) <p> " The residents of the ' Gaza envelope ' call on all of Israel during this holiday to add this special prayer to the traditional prayer , " Cohen said in a press release . " Full rehabilitation of the Gaza border region will never be possible without the return of the hostages . " <p> Stav explained that the holiday was about hope -- and faith in the ability to overcome difficulty . <p> " This prayer is a collective call for all of us to add more light , with the hope that it will bring salvation , comfort , and a safe return home for all those living in darkness , " Stav said . <p> " Most important is that we show that despite these challenges we are all united for the victory of our soldiers and the safe return to their homes and families alongside all the hostages . " <p> The rabbi also told the Post that Hanukkah was a celebration of God 's miracles , and during a holiday commemorating the victories against the Seleucid Empire , one could not ignore the victories achieved during the current war , such as the significant damage done to Hezbollah 's offensive capabilities . <p> " We do n't take it for granted , we want to express our gratitude to Hashem , " said Stav . <p> Stav also said he believed the prayer would be of significant interest to the Jewish people beyond Israel 's borders , as it would do good for the victims of October 7 and the war to know that their Jewish brethren were thinking of their well-being . <p> " I think that the main thing that connects the people of Israel in difficult hours is prayer for a better future , " Stav said . 
@@119282555 <h> The Pope had condemned the Israeli airstrikes in Gaza , stating " This is cruelty . I want to say this because it touches my heart . " <p> Pope Francis presides over a vigil , ahead of the Synod of bishops , at Saint Peter 's church at the Vatican , October 1 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/REMO CASILLI ) <p> The Vatican ambassador was summoned to the Israeli Foreign Ministry for a conversation with the director general following Pope Francis 's recent comment on Israeli " cruelty " in Gaza , an Israeli source told The Jerusalem Post . <p> The official added that the meeting between the senior Israeli official and Nuncio Adolpho Tito Yllana , the Holy See 's ambassador to Israel , took place this week and emphasized that it was only a conversation between the two officials . <p> Earlier this week , during a speech , the Pope condemned the Israeli airstrikes in Gaza and said , " Yesterday , children were bombed . This is not war . This is cruelty . I want to say this because it touches my heart , " Israeli Foreign Ministry Spokesman Oren Mamorstein said in response that the pope is " ignoring Hamas ' cruelty . " <h> Calling for a ceasefire <p> On Wednesday , during his Christmas message , the pope called for a ceasefire in Gaza , and called the situation " extremely grave " but did not repeat the claim of " cruelty " as in the beginning of the week . Pope Francis looks on , at a mass to open the Synod of Bishops in St. Peter 's square at the Vatican , October 2 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/GUGLIELMO MANGIAPANE/FILE PHOTO ) <p> In mid-December , the Pope suggested that allegations of genocide in Gaza " should be carefully investigated , " and in early December , the Pope was photographed next to a nativity scene in which Jesus was wrapped in a keffiyeh , a symbol of Palestinian nationalism . <p> Israel 's Diaspora Affairs and Combating Antisemitism Minister Amichai Chikli responded to both these incidents by accusing the Pope of perpetuating a " dangerous blood libel " against Israel and distorting history in a letter sent last week . 
@@119282556 <p> Defense Minister Israel Katz affirmed that security in the Philadelphi Corridor and throughout Gaza would remain in IDF hands when he visited the Philadelphi Corridor on Wednesday . <p> " I came for a visit within Gaza , " Katz explained in the footage as he stood at the Philadelphi Corridor wearing a bulletproof vest . He added that the reason for the trip was " to meet the commanders and soldiers who were doing incredible work . " <p> Katz then stated that Israel would allow no Hamas governance at the Phildephi Corridor or throughout Gaza . <p> " Security will remain in the hands of the IDF , which will be able to act in any way necessary to eliminate threats , prevent tunneling , disrupt terror infrastructure , and thwart terrorist organizations attempting to harm Israel or IDF soldiers , " Katz said . <p> " We will ensure that what we have seen regarding cross-border tunnels and other threats will not recur . We will ensure that security control remains in the hands of the IDF , which will act to eliminate threats , " he added . PRIME MINISTER Benjamin Netanyahu shows a map of the Gaza Strip and the nearby Israeli localities , with the arrows pointing to the Philadelphi Corridor ( top ) and the Rafah crossing , at a news conference in Jerusalem on Monday . ( credit : CHAIM GOLDBEG/FLASH90 ) <h> ' A different reality ' <p> Katz then affirmed that Israel would " ensure that there are security zones , buffer areas , and commanding positions in Gaza , just as we have in Lebanon , Syria , and the eastern regions , to prevent threats to Israeli communities , citizens , and soldiers . " <p> " This will be a different reality , thanks to the ongoing fighting , " he added . <p> He then emphasized the two main goals of the war , saying that Israel would work to " bring all the hostages home and to defeat Hamas. " 
@@119282557 <h> The candle-lighting ceremony was then reportedly moved to a different location after the threat . <p> Israel 's police dispersed a candle-lighting ceremony held by families of hostages in Tel Aviv due to security concerns Wednesday evening . The suspect was detained following a police investigation and search of the area , Israel Police announced . <h> Consistent eliminations have damaged the morale of Hamas operatives and disrupted the command-and-control capabilities of the terror group . <p> By AMIR BOHBOT IDF soldiers in northern Gaza Strip conducting operation in the area of the Indonesian Hospital , where a Hamas launch site was located . ( photo credit : IDF SPOKESMAN 'S UNIT ) <p> The defense establishment assesses that 15 months of fighting in the Gaza Strip have conveyed a clear message to Hamas that the IDF will continue the war as long as necessary , and certain elements are pressuring Hamas to advance talks for a hostage deal . <p> According to data presented to Defense Minister Israel Katz , the Shin Bet 's increased presence in the Gaza Strip over recent months , combined with intelligence officers embedded in brigade combat teams , has generated high-quality and precise intelligence . <p> This intelligence enables targeted strikes on buildings harboring Hamas operatives and field commanders . The data indicates a weekly average of 30 -- 40 Hamas operatives being eliminated by the Southern Command , the Air Force , and the Shin Bet . <h> Construction of such corridors is meant to assist with both defensive and " strategic offensive " operations in the Gaza Strip , the IDF said . <p> By JACOB LAZNIK(Illustrative) IDF satellite imagery of a humanitarian corridor in the Gaza Strip that was struck by Hamas back in November , 2023. ( photo credit : Canva , IDF SPOKESPERSON 'S UNIT ) <p> The IDF appears to be constructing a strategic corridor somewhere in the northern Gaza Strip , according to a Tuesday report from N12 and satellite imagery from a Monday Washington Post report . <p> N12 reports a constructed 6.5-kilometer road that connects Kibbutz Be'eri to Gaza 's coastline and is said to play a key role in facilitating military mobility and strategic initiatives . <p> Meanwhile , The Washington Post has provided a different image , suggesting that a corridor was built slightly further south . It resembles the IDF 's transformation of the Netzarim Corridor in central Gaza as a part of broader efforts to reshape the operational landscape in the strip . <h> IDF intercepts Yemen missile fired toward central Israel <h> This is the second day in a row the IDF has intercepted a missile fired from Yemen . <p> By SHIR PERETS Iron dome anti-missile system fires interception missiles as rockets are fired from the Gaza Strip to Israel , as it seen from Sderot on May 10 , 2023. ( photo credit : YONATAN SINDEL/FLASH90 ) <p> The IDF intercepted a projectile fired from Yemen 's Houthis toward central Israel during the early hours of Wednesday morning , Israel 's military said shortly after the incident . 
@@119304550 <h> Leaders of ' Uncommitted ' and ' Abandon Harris ' movements reflect on Trump 's victory and early moves <p> Vice President Kamala Harris had just 107 days as a presidential candidate to change the minds of hundreds of thousands of " uncommitted " Democratic primary voters nationwide , many of whom voted in protest against President Joe Biden and his administration 's handling of Israel 's war in the Gaza Strip . <p> But leaders from the Uncommitted National Movement and the " Abandon Harris " campaign say they felt Harris did n't do enough to distance herself from Biden or outline how she 'd handle the war differently . <p> And now , they 're closely watching President-elect Donald Trump 's early moves on the Middle East and specifically on Gaza to see what comes next . <p> " There 's been many ways in which Harris chose the path of Liz Cheney and the donor class on a range of issues , and abandoning working families in places like Dearborn , who make up the people Democrats claim to be fighting for , " said Uncommitted National Movement co-founder Layla Elabed , a Palestinian American activist and the sister of Rep. Rashida Tlaib , D-Mich . " And I think at the same time , Trump came in and fed a community that was grieving and in despair with lies and false promises . " <p> Vice President Kamala Harris and former Rep. Liz Cheney during a rally at Ripon College in Ripon , Wis. , on Oct. 3 . Jim Vondruska / Getty Images file <p> Trump ultimately ended up carrying Dearborn , a majority Arab American city in Michigan , by more than 6 percentage points -- a massive swing from Biden 's nearly 40 point win there in 2020 . But most Dearborn voters also voted against Trump , who got about 43% support in a deeply split field . <p> Elabed decided not to vote at the top of the ticket this year and focused instead on downballot races . <p> " We provided Democrats with a pathway for victory and a way to unite the party and they spent 10 months ignoring us and berating us , " Elabed said . <p> When Elabed and other leaders from the Uncommitted National Movement briefly met Harris in person last summer , she told the candidate that she wanted to be able to vote for her and asked Harris to talk with activists about how to change her policy toward the Middle East . She said Harris seemed receptive in that moment , but another official meeting never panned out . <p> " She never came to Dearborn . She never came to speak to families that were first-hand impacted by our U.S. policy decisions that ultimately killed their family members , " Elabed said . <p> A former Harris campaign official , who was granted anonymity to speak candidly about internal campaign deliberations , said that after Oct. 7 , 2023 , the vice president spoke with Palestinian Americans who were in Gaza when the war started and who had to be evacuated , as well as with doctors who had returned from Gaza . Harris herself described speaking with those who lost loved ones in Gaza during remarks in December 2023 . <p> Elabed said she feels crushed by the reality of four years of the Trump administration 's policies toward Israel . <p> " I 'm absolutely devastated . I 'm devastated for our country . It makes me so angry and frustrated that it did n't have to be this way , because all of -- we provided the warning signs on a silver platter , " Elabed said . <p> Bryarr Misner , who grew up Christian , converted to Judaism and later to Islam , worked as a campaign manager for the Abandon Harris campaign in Pittsburgh . Unlike Elabed , he ultimately voted for Trump . And he expressed similar frustration about a lack of access to members of Harris ' team , which he said felt demeaning . <p> " We tried negotiations . We tried to reach out , to no avail . You know , they never reached out , " he said , adding later , " We went through multiple avenues to try to be heard , and instead we were ridiculed . " <p> Misner said it was a difficult decision to vote for Trump . He said the point of the Abandon Harris campaign was to punish the Democrats for supporting Israel during its war in Gaza , which the campaigners view as a genocide , and he hopes the Trump campaign will be more willing to negotiate with group leaders . ( Israel 's government and the U.S. government have rejected accusations of genocide . ) <p> " President Trump , he continuously came and he was in the community . While I do n't believe that he 's going to enact policies that will benefit the community , he at least showed that he was willing to show up for the community , " Misner said . <p> The former Harris campaign official said groups like the Abandon Harris movement demanded that she call for an immediate arms embargo and her campaign was n't willing to do so . <p> Palestinian American policy analyst and writer Abdelhalim Abdelrahman said there were similar feelings of inaccessibility and unresponsiveness in Michigan . <p> " I think the most insulting aspect of it is that the Uncommitted movement and other grassroots movements here in Michigan did all they could to extend an olive branch to Kamala Harris and the Democrats , to have Kamala Harris sit down with them , listen to their pain and advocate for an arms embargo , " Abdelrahman said . " And just it was a simple request of enforcing U.S. law , and they were rebuffed , and they were treated as criminals , and they were alienated from the supposed ' big tent ' party of the Democratic Party . " <p> Abdelrahman said Harris never managed to proactively present policy positions about ending the war or advocating for Palestinians to satisfy a critical part of her constituency , and that her overall strategy often seemed reactionary to Trump . <p> " I think the biggest problem is that your messaging to Arab Americans ca n't just be ' Trump 's a fascist , Trump is Hitler . Big , scary orange man , vote for me . ' Part of being a part of the American political system is being able to separate yourself from your opponent and lay out a better vision . And she did not do that , " Abdelrahman said . <p> " It really seems like Massad Boulos , the Lebanese Christian who facilitated his Arab American outreach in Michigan , is going to have a little bit more of operational freedom than people realize in this administration and I think that could help offset the likes of Mike Huckabee , " Abdelrahman said , referring to Trump 's pick for ambassador to Israel . " It 's scary , but I 'm not ready to jump the gun just yet . " <p> " I expect to see a lot of pro-Israel rhetoric , but seeing a little bit more diplomacy , " he said of Trump 's overall strategy in the Middle East . <p> Farah Khan , a co-chair of the Abandon Harris campaign in Michigan , said she 's been a lifelong Democrat but not anymore . She viewed voting against Harris as a moral issue as the war continues to unfold . <p> " Anybody with their right mind would not go back to the Democrats , because they have not shown any change , and they 're going to have to work really , really hard to win their votes back , " Khan said . <p> Khan said Harris did n't do enough to reverse course in terms of messaging or policy from the Biden administration 's handling of the war . Ultimately , she voted for Jill Stein of the Green Party . <p> " Harris says , ' Oh , yeah , I feel bad . ' And the next day , they send billions of dollars again in weapons . I mean , you ca n't even fool kids like this nowadays , let alone grown people who are your constituents , your voters , " Khan said . <p> " She could have at least called for a ceasefire , " Khan said . ( Harris repeatedly called for a ceasefire during her campaign , including during her Democratic convention speech . ) " She could have sent aid , she could have pressured Israel to let the aid in -- she did not . She did nothing of that sort . And yet she kept saying that , you know , we 're working around the clock . If you 're working around the clock and this is the outcome , then we definitely do n't want you in the office . " <p> The former Harris campaign official pointed to Harris ' December 2023 trip to Dubai , where Harris said international humanitarian law must be respected and advocated for a two-state solution . Inside the administration , the official said , Harris pushed on humanitarian and civilian casualty issues . <p> The official argued that there was alignment between what Harris and the Muslim and Arab American communities were fighting for , but not enough time for people to fully understand her stance . <p> Khan believes many Muslim and Arab American voters picked Trump in protest -- not because they liked him , but because they wanted to defeat Harris and punish the Democrats . <p> " Even in politics , humanity should be the first and the foremost thing to to be respected , to be valued , right ? And the Democratic Party clearly , clearly , for an entire year showed us they do not care about human life , " Khan said . " They do not care about their constituents , how they feel about the massacre . " <p> Khan said Trump 's rhetoric about bringing the war to an end was a winning message for many Muslim and Arab American voters . <p> " He at least , at least came and spoke to the Muslims . He heard them and said , ' OK , I will finish . I will end the war in Middle East , ' even if he did n't say , you know , a genocide , but he said he will bring peace , " she said . " And that 's what the people wanted to hear , and that 's why he got the votes . " <p> But she 's concerned about the possibility of Huckabee serving as ambassador to Israel . <p> " It is very troubling . It 's worrisome . And some of his Cabinet picks , like Tulsi Gabbard and then Mike Huckabee , have made Muslims anxious , but we still have to wait and see how things pan out , because it 's too early to say anything about Trump , and we all know that Trump only listens to Trump , " Khan said . 
@@119304954 <p> Israel launched a multi-wave attack across Yemen in retaliation for Houthi missile and drone strikes , the Israeli military confirmed Thursday . <p> Israel Defense Forces warplanes hit key infrastructure like Sanaa International Airport in the Yemeni capital -- which is controlled by the Iran-backed terror group -- as well as power plants in Aziz and Ras Cantib . <p> World Health Organization Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said he and members of a UN team were getting ready to board a plane in Sanaa when the airstrike began . <p> Munitions destroyed or damaged parts of the airport " just a few meters " from where the WHO chief and his team were standing . Although they were unharmed , they were left stranded at the airport until repairs could be made , he said . <p> In addition to the strikes on the airport , the IDF also said it took out key infrastructure in the ports of Hodeidah , al-Salif and Ras Cantib on Yemen 's western coast . <p> Israel said the facilities it targeted were used by Houthi terrorists to shuttle Iranian weapons to the region , and demonstrated how the group uses " civilian infrastructure for terrorist purposes . " <p> At least four people were killed and a dozen more were injured , according to Houthi-run al-Masirah television . <p> The strikes reportedly took place as Houthi chief Abdul-Malik al-Houthi was giving a speech , according to Times of Israel . <p> " The Houthi terrorist regime repeatedly attacks the State of Israel and its citizens , launching unmanned aerial vehicles and surface-to-surface missiles towards the country 's territory , " IDF said in a press release Thursday . <p> " The IDF will not hesitate to act forcefully and strike anyone who poses a threat to the citizens of the State of Israel , at any distance required . " <p> People take cover while sirens sound after Israel 's military reported that a drone was launched from Yemen towards Israel , in Ashkelon , Israel December 25 , 2024 . REUTERS <p> In a statement on X , Houthi spokesman Mohammed Abdulsalam characterized Israel 's strikes on the airport and other " civilian architecture " as a " crime against the Yemeni people . " <p> Israeli officials earlier this week vowed to begin targeting leaders of the Houthis in response to the strikes on Israel . <p> " Just as we took care of Yayha Sinwar in Gaza , Ismail Haniyeh in Tehran and Hassan Nasrallah in Beirut , we will deal with the heads of the Houthis in Sana'a or anywhere in Yemen , " Israel 's defense minister Israel Katz said Tuesday , according to the outlet . <p> Houthi rebels have been a continuous thorn in the side of both Israel and international shipping companies since the start of its war with Hamas last October . They have repeatedly attacked cargo and tanker ships traveling through the Strait of Hormuz and have also launched missiles and drones at US forces stationed in the region . <p> US Central Command Forces conducted its own airstrikes against Houthi fighters last week , destroying a missile storage facility and a command-and-control facility in Sanaa on Dec. 21 . <p> The Air Force and Navy-supported strikes were to " disrupt and degrade " Houthi operations , including attacks against Navy warships and merchant vessels in the Southern Red Sea , Bab al-Mandeb and the Gulf of Aden , CENTCOM said in a press release . 
@@119305356 <p> As the world gears up for 2025 , it leaves behind a year of war , political shifts , pop culture moments , sporting triumphs , lost stars and more . <p> ABC News was there to chronicle every moment and will look back at this year 's defining events in a two-hour special , " The Year : 2024 , " which airs Thursday , Dec. 26 at 9 p.m . ET , and streams afterwards on Hulu . <p> Taylor Swift performs on stage during the " Taylor Swift The Eras Tour " at Wembley Stadium in London , August 15 , 2024 . <p> Kate Green/Getty Images <p> The special also includes commentary from ABC News anchors , correspondents and contributors , including ABC News ' powerhouse political team , co-hosts from " The View , " and more . <p> The special , now in its 14th year , also includes interviews with Elton John , Teddy Swims , Lisa Ann Walter , Ilona Maher and Stephen Nedoroscik and more.Here 's a taste of the topics featured in the special . <h> Obsessions <p> Taylor Swift was on our minds again this year , having released new album " Tortured Poet 's Department " and embarked on another leg of her record-breaking Eras tour . Charli XCX also dominated the summer when she declared " Kamala is brat " as Vice President Kamala Harris announced her candidacy for president . <p> In addition to the music of the year , the special also features the social and fashion trends of the year , and the films breaking box office records . <h> Breaking News <p> Kamala Harris and Donald Trump 's contentious race for the White House dominated the news for much of 2024 . President Joe Biden 's debate performance , the assassination attempt on Trump , and Harris replacing Biden as the Democratic Party 's nominee and Trump 's eventual victory were the stories to watch . <p> The horrific , ongoing war between Israel and Gaza stretched into its second year , drawing in Iran and Hezbollah in Lebanon . The war in Ukraine also passed 1,000 days , with Ukrainian President Zelenskyy signaling it 's time for peace talks with Russia . <h> Celebrity Romance <p> I do or I do n't ? The special also explores how the love lives of some of our favorite stars evolved this year . Jennifer Lopez filed for divorce from Ben Affleck after two years of marriage , ending their kindled relationship . Natalie Portman also split from Black Swan choreographer Benjamin Millipied after 12 years . <p> It was n't all bad news on the celebrity relationship front though -- Taylor Swift and Travis Kelce 's relationship captivated the world , Hailey and Justin Bieber had a baby boy and " Golden Bachelorette " Joan Vassos got engaged to Chock Chapple . <h> Law &amp; Justice <p> The once and future president was n't the only prominent figure in court this year . ABC News ' experts explore music mogul Sean " Diddy " Combs ' not guilty plea on sex trafficking and other charges , the Menendez brothers ' infamous 1989 murder case coming back in front of a judge and doomsday author Chad Daybell being sentenced to death for the triple murder of his family . <p> A view of a photo booth with Elmo during " Mindful Families " presented by Headspace in partnership with Sesame Street and Unicorn Productions at Second Floor on Sept. 6 , 2023 in New York City . <p> Craig Barritt/Getty Images , FILE <h> Ca n't Miss Moments <p> Did you try the " Dancing with the Stars " viral leg lift ? This was just one of the moments that had everyone talking this year . Other moments include the stunning solar eclipse , the tweet from Elmo sparking a conversation on mental health and the woman rescued after her semi-truck was left dangling over the Clark Memorial Bridge in Kentucky . <h> Breakout Stars <p> Actor Glen Powell was in the spotlight for much of 2024 , earning critical acclaim for his performances in " Anyone But You , " " Hitman " and " Twisters . " On the TV front , Anna Sawai 's performance in Hulu 's historical drama " Shogun " earned her a Lead Actress Emmy . Co-star Hiroyuki Sanada netted the Lead Actor award , while the series took the win for Outstanding Drama . <p> Musically , Chappell Roan got us all dancing at the Pink Pony Club , while Sabrina Carpenter had the world craving a ( certified platinum ) Espresso . Shaboozey also announced that there 's a party downtown near 5th St. , and got five Grammy nominations in the process . <h> Politics <p> In an election year , politics was at the center of many conversations . ABC 's correspondents look at how Republican Donald Trump overcame legal woes and an assassination attempt to win a second presidential term . <p> His Democratic rival , Vice President Kamala Harris , may have had superstar celebrity endorsements from Taylor Swift and Beyonc ? , but it was n't enough to beat a resurgent Trump . <h> AI <p> The rise of artificial intelligence inspired fear in 2023 , but 2024 saw the tech being integrated into the devices that we already have -- the update likely added it into your phone , your laptop or your smart home . <p> AI has been used in myriad ways , from breakup texts to medical exploration and even driverless cars . The ABC team dives into them all . <h> In Memoriam <p> The world lost some of its shining stars this year . ABC News will celebrate the lives and legacies of Maggie Smith , Teri Garr , Carl Weathers . Donald Sutherland , Shelly Duvall , James Earl Jones , Kris Kristofferson , Quincy Jones , Liam Payne and more . <p> Katie Ledecky of the U.S. celebrates after winning the gold medal in the women 's 1500m freestyle final at the 2024 Paris Olympics , July 31 , 2024 , in Nanterre , France . <p> Sarah Stier/Getty Images <h> Champions <p> The 2024 Paris Olympics dominated sports over the summer . Swimmer Katie Ledecky became the most successful female Olympian in U.S. history and gymnast Simone Biles ' launched a comeback amid the other major successes of this year 's Games . <p> The special also highlights the triumphant story of the Hunter Woodhall and Tara Davis-Woodhall , the married couple taking home gold and capturing our hearts . <p> Beyond the Olympics , the Kansas City Chiefs won back-to-back Super Bowls , the New York Liberty took home its first championship title and the LA Dodgers became Major League Baseball 's World Series champions . 
@@119306543 <p> An advocacy group has initiated legal action in Argentina and Chile , urging the countries to arrest an Israeli soldier for war crimes in Gaza . <p> The cases filed in Argentina and Chile announced on Thursday cite both national and international legal obligations . They come among a wider effort by the Belgium-based Hind Rajab Foundation to pressure countries across the world to seek more comprehensive justice for abuses committed in the Palestinian enclave . <p> The cases target Israeli soldier Saar Hirshoren for what the Hind Rajab Foundation described as his role in the 749 Combat Engineering Battalion , which chair Dyab Abou Jahjah described as being " systematically involved in the destruction of civilian infrastructure " in Gaza . <p> The foundation has simultaneously filed a complaint against the entire battalion with the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) for " war crimes , crimes against humanity and genocide " . <p> Local prosecutors working with the group filed the criminal complaint in Argentina on December 24 and Chile the next day , calling for Hirshoren 's arrest . The foundation said Hirshoren was initially in Argentina when the first case was filed , before leaving for Chile . <p> Advertisement <p> The prosecutors cited " video evidence from Hirshoren 's Instagram account , showing him actively participating in the destruction of civilian infrastructure in Gaza " as well as " his role in the deliberate demolition of neighbourhoods , cultural sites , and essential facilities " in violation of international law . <p> It was not immediately clear if Hirshoren holds dual nationality of any country beyond Israel and his most recent whereabouts remain unknown , Abou Jahjah told Al Jazeera . <p> " I appeal to Argentina and Chile to take their responsibility as democracies , states with the rule of law to arrest Mr Hirshoren , " he said . <h> Push for wider accountability <p> The latest legal actions come after Amnesty International earlier this month concluded that Israel was committing genocide in Gaza . UN rights experts have reached similar determinations on the war , which began following an attack by Hamas on southern Israel on October 7 , 2023 . <p> Since then , 45,399 Palestinians have been killed in Gaza and 107,940 have been wounded in Israeli operations , which have also destroyed much of Gaza 's infrastructure and brought a deadly humanitarian crisis . <p> The Hamas attack on Israel killed 1,139 people . <p> In November , the ICC issued an arrest warrant for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant , citing " the war crime of starvation as a method of warfare ; and the crimes against humanity of murder , persecution , and other inhumane acts " . <p> Israel has rejected the warrants and has repeatedly maintained its actions in Gaza are in line with international law . <p> Advertisement <p> The ICC last month also issued an arrest warrant for Hamas military commander Mohammed Deif for crimes against humanity and war crimes committed during the October 7 attack on Israel . Israel has said Deif was killed in a July strike . <p> But the Hind Rajab Foundation , named after the 6-year-old killed in Israeli shelling as her family fled Gaza City earlier this year , and other advocacy groups have said accountability should extend beyond the Israeli leadership . <p> The foundation has launched legal actions against Israeli soldiers who are either citizens of -- or temporary visitors to -- Ecuador , the Netherlands , France , and Cyprus , among others . <p> The group has regularly focused on Israeli soldiers who have posted abuses on social media . For example , Hirshoren posted a video of himself remotely detonating seven buildings near the Mosab bin Omair mosque in north Nuseirat in October , according to an analysis of posts by Drop Site News . <p> Advocates argue that countries that are parties to international rights treaties -- including the ICC 's founding document , the Rome Statute , as well as the Geneva Convention -- have a responsibility to enforce international law . <p> In October , the group filed a complaint to the ICC naming 1,000 Israeli soldiers it accused of abuses , including 12 dual nationals from France , 12 from the United States , four from Canada , three from the United Kingdom , and two from The Netherlands . <p> Abou Jahjah said with the ICC taking long-delayed actions , his group hopes to correct a " deficiency " at the nation-state level . <p> Advertisement <p> It may be a long shot . None of the countries where the group has taken action have sought recourse against the identified soldiers . Neither Chile nor Argentina have responded to the latest appeal . 
@@119314558 <h> Another soldier from Maj. Shriebman 's unit was injured in the incident . <p> Maj. Hod Shriebman was killed in combat in northern Gaza , the IDF announced on Thursday . <p> Maj. Shriebman , 27 , from Tzofit , served as a company commander in the Multidimensional Unit ( 888 ) . <p> In the same incident , another soldier from Unit 888 was seriously wounded . <p> In a separate incident in northern Gaza , a tank commander from the 9th Battalion of the Iron Trails Brigade ( 401 ) was seriously wounded . <p> Both wounded soldiers were evacuated to hospital for medical treatment , and their families have been notified . IDF troops operate in the Gaza Strip . December 22 , 2024. ( credit : IDF SPOKESPERSON 'S UNIT ) <h> IDF data <p> According to the IDF 's tally , the death of Maj. Shriebman raises the total of soldiers killed on or since October 7 of last year to 823 . <p> Some 391 of this number were killed since the start of the military 's ground operations in the Gaza Strip on October 27 , 2023. 
@@119315844 <p> Five journalists were killed in an Israeli strike in Gaza on Thursday , according to the news outlet that employed them and local officials . It 's the latest report of slain journalists in the besieged enclave as life-threatening conditions in the area continue to hamper wartime reporting efforts . <p> The media office of Gaza 's Hamas-run government said the journalists worked at Al Quds Today TV , a local news channel , The New York Times reported . Al Quds Today is affiliated with the Islamic Jihad , according to the Committee to Protect Journalists ( CPJ ) , though it 's unclear whether the journalists subscribed to such ideology and were members of the jihadist group . <p> Al Quds Today named the five men and attached photos of them in a post on social media that show some of them wearing " Press " vests . Quds News Network also posted a photo on X of what it reported was the vehicle targeted in the airstrike . The white vehicle pictured was marked with the word " PRESS " in red . <p> The Israeli military disputed claims that the men were journalists , saying it " conducted a precise strike on a vehicle with an Islamic Jihad terrorist cell inside in the area of Nuseirat . " According to The Washington Post , the Israeli Defense Forces did not publicly provide evidence for its allegations and cited intelligence from " multiple sources " that allegedlyindicated the men belonged to the Islamic Jihad group . <p> IDF spokesperson Nadav Shoshani wrote on X that claims that the military targeted journalists are " fake . " <p> For the past 14 months , journalists in Gaza , alongside approximately 2 million other civilians who are trapped in the area , have been under relentless attacks from Israel while living under what human rights groups have called inhumane conditions . <p> Although media workers are protected by international humanitarian law , journalists in Gaza face especially high risks as they cover the war . Between Oct. 7 , 2023 , and Dec. 20 , 2024 , at least 141 members of the media -- including 133 Palestinians , six Lebanese and two Israelis -- have been killed , accordingto the CPJ , making it the deadliest period for journalists in more than 30 years . Several dozen journalists in Gaza have also been arrested and reported missing , and their family members threatened and killed , according to the organization . 
@@119318952 <p> Smoke rises from the area around the International Airport following an airstrike , as seen from Sanaa , Yemen , Thursday , Dec. 26 , 2024 . The Israeli military reported targeting infrastructure used by the Houthis at the Sanaa International Airport , as well as ports in Hodeida , Al-Salif , and Ras Qantib , along with power stations . ( AP Photo/Osamah Abdulrahman ) <p> JERUSALEM ( AP ) -- A new round of Israeli airstrikes in Yemen on Thursday targeted the Houthi rebel-held capital and multiple ports , while the World Health Organization 's director-general said the bombardment occurred nearby as he prepared to board a flight in Sanaa , with a crew member injured . <p> " The air traffic control tower , the departure lounge -- just a few meters from where we were -- and the runway were damaged , " Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said on the social media platform X. <p> He added that he and U.N . colleagues were safe . " We will need to wait for the damage to the airport to be repaired before we can leave , " he said , without mentioning the source of the bombardment . U.N . spokesperson Stephanie Tremblay later said the injured person was with the U.N . Humanitarian Air Service . <p> At least three people were later reported killed and dozens injured in the airport strike . The U.N . team members left the airport and were " safe and sound " in Sanaa while the injured crew member was being treated at a hospital , she said . <p> Tremblay said the damage assessment would be made on Friday morning to see whether WHO chief and the U.N . team can leave Yemen . <p> Locals stand next to a damaged building after the latest Israeli military operation , in the West Bank city of Tulkarem , Thursday , Dec. 26 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Matias Delacroix ) <p> U.N . Secretary-General Antonio Guterres condemned the escalation in attacks between Yemen and Israel and described Thursday 's attacks as " especially alarming , " Tremblay said . <p> Israel 's army later told The Associated Press it was n't aware that the WHO chief or delegation was at the location in Yemen . <p> The Israeli strikes followed several days of Houthi launches setting off sirens in Israel . The Israeli military in a statement said it attacked infrastructure used by the Iran-backed Houthis at the international airport in Sanaa and ports in Hodeida , Al-Salif and Ras Qantib , along with power stations , asserting they were used to smuggle in Iranian weapons and for the entry of senior Iranian officials . <p> Israel 's military added it had " capabilities to strike very far from Israel 's territory -- precisely , powerfully , and repetitively . " <p> The strikes , carried out over 1,000 miles from Jerusalem , came a day after Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said " the Houthis , too , will learn what Hamas and Hezbollah and Assad 's regime and others learned " as his military has battled those more powerful proxies of Iran . Hamas has been designated as a terrorist organization by the United States , Canada and the European Union . <p> The Houthi-controlled satellite channel al-Masirah reported multiple deaths and showed broken windows , collapsed ceilings and a bloodstained floor and vehicle . Iran 's foreign ministry condemned the strikes . The U.S. military also has targeted the Houthis in recent days . <p> The U.N . Security Council has an emergency meeting Monday in response to an Israeli request that it condemn the Houthi attacks and Iran for supplying them weapons . <h> 5 journalists killed in Gaza <p> Meanwhile , an Israeli strike killed five Palestinian journalists outside a hospital in Gaza overnight , the territory 's Health Ministry said . The Israeli military said all were militants posing as reporters . <p> The strike hit a car outside Al-Awda Hospital in the built-up Nuseirat refugee camp in central Gaza . The journalists were working for local news outlet Al-Quds Today , a television channel affiliated with the Islamic Jihad militant group . <p> A woman reacts during the funeral of five Palestinian journalists who were killed by an Israeli airstrike in Gaza City at the Al-Aqsa Hospital in Deir al-Balah , Thursday , Dec. 26 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Abdel Kareem Hana ) <p> Islamic Jihad is a smaller and more extreme ally of Hamas and took part in the Oct. 7 , 2023 attack in southern Israel that ignited the war . Israel 's military identified four of the men as combat propagandists and said that intelligence , including a list of Islamic Jihad operatives found by soldiers in Gaza , had confirmed that all five were affiliated with the group . <p> Hamas , Islamic Jihad and other Palestinian militant groups operate political , media and charitable operations in addition to their armed wings . <p> Associated Press footage showed the incinerated shell of a van , with press markings visible on the back doors . Sobbing young men attended the funeral . The bodies were wrapped in shrouds , with blue press vests draped over them . <p> The Committee to Protect Journalists says more than 130 Palestinian reporters have been killed since the start of the war . Israel has n't allowed foreign reporters to enter Gaza except on military embeds . <p> Israel has banned the pan-Arab Al Jazeera network and accused six of its Gaza reporters of being militants . The Qatar-based broadcaster denies the allegations and accuses Israel of trying to silence its war coverage , which has focused heavily on civilian casualties from Israeli military operations . <h> Another Israeli soldier killed <p> Separately , Israel 's military said a 35-year-old reserve soldier was killed during fighting in central Gaza . A total of 389 soldiers have been killed in Gaza since the start of the ground operation . <p> The war began when Hamas-led terrorists stormed across the border , killing around 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and abducting around 250 . About 100 hostages are still inside Gaza , at least a third believed to be dead . <p> Israel 's air and ground offensive has killed more than 45,000 Palestinians , according to the Health Ministry . It says more than half the fatalities have been women and children , but does n't say how many of the dead were fighters . Israel says it has killed more than 17,000 combatants , without providing evidence . <p> The offensive has caused widespread destruction and hunger and driven around 90% of the population of 2.3 million from their homes . Hundreds of thousands are packed into squalid camps along the coast , with little protection from the cold , wet winter . <p> Also Thursday , people mourned eight Palestinians killed by Israeli military operations in and around Tulkarem in the occupied West Bank on Tuesday , according to the Palestinian Health Ministry . The Israeli military said it opened fire after militants attacked soldiers , and it was aware of uninvolved civilians who were harmed in the raid . <p> Shurafa reported from Deir al-Balah , Gaza Strip . Associated Press writers Edith M. Lederer at the United Nations and Nasser Karimi in Tehran , Iran , contributed to this report . A previous version of this story was corrected to show that the name of the local news outlet is Al-Quds Today , not the Quds News Network . 
@@119339556 <h> Recommended <p> If Team Biden had called out the phony reports of famine and " genocide " from the start , and fully backed Israel 's defensive war , the fighting might well have ended by now , writes the Post Editorial Board . AFP via Getty Images <p> Team Biden is slamming a report that warns of famine in northern Gaza . <h> Thanks for signing up ! <p> Indeed , in a last-minute bid for the anti-Israel vote just before the election , Team Biden threatened to halt yet more weapons shipments to Israel if the IDF did n't let in more aid . <p> Such threats only further embolden Hamas , Iran and Israel 's other enemies . <p> Gazans caught in a war inevitably will find it hard to find food , especially since Hamas regularly steals aid shipments , and relief groups are n't even willing to assign drivers to deliver the shipments , fearing they 'll be attacked and robbed by the terrorists or criminals . <p> Yet the answer is n't to blast Israel and demand it end its efforts to eliminate Hamas , as President Biden and Veep Kamala Harris did all year . <p> The answer 's to help Israel eliminate the terrorists as quickly as possible . <p> Indeed , if Team Biden had called out the phony reports of famine and " genocide " from the start , and fully backed Israel 's defensive war , the fighting might well have ended by now . <p> On the bright side : A new administration takes office next month , and Washington will stop trying to make nice with Israel 's enemies , including their propaganda wings . 
@@119340145 <h> The year in letters : Readers did n't miss a trick in frenzied 2024 <p> From left : Bill Belichick looked on during a Patriots game at Gillette Stadium on Jan. 7 ; a crowd showed support as Karen Read left the Norfolk County Superior Courthouse on June 25 ; people watched as the eclipse began on Lake Champlain in Vermont on April 8 ; Donald Trump campaigned in the early morning hours of Election Day , Nov. 5 , in Pittsburgh.Winslow Townson/Getty Images ; Jessica Rinaldi/Globe Staff ; Danielle Parhizkaran/Globe Staff ; Doug Mills/The New York Times <p> Closer to home , Karen Read 's murder trial made worldwide headlines . Shelters overflowed while affordable housing remained elusive . MCAS foes seemed to have done their homework in pushing a winning ballot initiative . The New England Patriots parted ways with Bill Belichick , and the Boston Celtics held the NBA championship trophy high . <p> Eclipse watchers found they did n't have to see totality to be moved by the celestial wonder , and many found that for a brief moment in a crowd of strangers , all that divides us floated away . The feeling did n't last . <p> Yet every step of the bumpy way , our readers reminded us that the public discourse remains healthy and the debate goes on . Here 's a look back at 2024 as seen through an excerpted collection of letters to the editor . <p> -- Matthew Bernstein , letters editor <p> Advertisement <h> JANUARY : Claudine Gay out at Harvard ; Belichick out in Foxborough ; rent bidding wars <p> So at Harvard they shower Henry Kissinger with praise , but they find a way to denigrate and dispose of the first Black female president of the university because of some missing footnotes and some unpopular replies to sensitive queries ? I so wish Claudine Gay would have barreled through this barrage of baloney and stood her ground . That would have been her victory . It would have been difficult , but many lesser individuals have done it . ( Liz Casey ) <p> Claudine Gay 's testimony before the House Committee on Education and the Workforce on Dec. 5 , 2023 , led to the end of her tenure as president of Harvard University.Haiyun Jiang/Photographer : Haiyun Jiang/Bloom <p> While many may have been ecstatic to hear that coach Bill Belichick and the New England Patriots were parting ways , I felt distraught . Belichick provided the franchise with a level of stability and leadership that will never be replicated . In a world where many people constantly change how they appear to others , Belichick never wavered from staying true to himself . Superstardom did n't matter , and neither did feeding media narratives . There was only one goal , year in and year out : bringing home the Lombardi Trophy in February . ( Brianna Silva ) <p> Instead of a game of musical chairs for would-be renters , let 's create a sort of " Game of Homes " in which participants really get down and dirty , pitting their strategic skills , cunning , and , of course , weapons in a real fight to the signed-lease finish . This would make a perfect entry into the reality TV world . We 'll watch the battles rage among modest-income aspirants , twentysomethings backed by wealthy parents , and people with three jobs who still ca n't put food on the table . And we 'll get to see the interiors of loads of Boston-area apartments most of us ca n't afford ! ( Daphne Bishop ) <p> A special prosecutor appointed by the administration 's attorney general has raised a question that has seemed obvious to even the most partisan Democrat : that President Biden is failing and is not up to the job . Robert Hur has done Democratic voters a favor . We need to stop viewing Biden through the lens of being better than Trump and instead start asking ourselves whether he is up to the job for another four years . ( John J. Clifford ) <p> A thorough independent investigation of Steward Health Care is needed to determine whether funds that should have been invested in essentials such as life-saving equipment and payments for supplies , staffing , and rent were instead used for executive bonuses , directors ' fees , and stock dividends . This is a job for federal and state officials and investigators , but my vote goes to the Globe Spotlight Team . ( Lorna Fredd ) <p> Thanks to a Globe front-page story for adding another dimension to my retiree-grandmother identity : " militant . " I 'll own that with pride as a voting member of the Massachusetts Teachers Association who believes that paraprofessionals should get a living wage , teachers deserve compensation for hours that include so many more tasks than when I taught , and educators deserve respectful family leave benefits . My eyes always pop at the Globe 's characterization of workers who benefit from union organizing . You can call this grandma a militant any day ! ( Martha Matlaw ) <p> State Senator Lydia Edwards says that Milton 's vote against rezoning under the MBTA Communities Act makes it look as if the town 's residents are " scared of outsiders . " The real problem ? The accessibility of the MBTA service that 's supposed to be a central feature of the law . Because so many people will choose Interstate 93 over Milton 's woeful public transit , the law wo n't serve its purpose and instead will send even more traffic onto the clogged routes out of Milton . Fix the T and the votes will follow . ( Laura Murray-Tjan ) <p> The state is about to tell families again that there may be no room for them in emergency shelters . Expect more homelessness . Because where else do you go when the last refuge is taken away ? The street . ( Georgia Katsoulomitis ) <p> Karen Read left the Norfolk County Superior Court in Dedham after another day of jury selections in her murder trial on April 17 . Pat Greenhouse/Globe Staff <p> The only thing I have come to believe in the sad and sordid story of the Karen Read case is that I do not believe anyone who is involved . ( Shannon Goodwin ) <h> APRIL : the eclipse ; campus protests <p> My husband is on the sixth floor in post-op after cataract surgery . The nurse points me to the window . I put on the glasses and watch the eclipse event unfold . The surgeon comes in to check on the patient and congratulate him on successful surgery , then stands next to me , puts on glasses , and looks at the eclipse . The nurse asks my husband , " Do you want to see it , too ? " We help my husband up , and with glasses covering both his left eye patch and his right eye , for which he had cataract surgery a month ago , he stares at the eclipse . The moon and sun align as collectively we watch this natural phenomenon with a burst of optimism . ( Claire Laton-Taylor ) <p> Advertisement <p> Students at Tufts , MIT , and Emerson are beginning encampments in solidarity with Palestinians in Gaza who have reportedly faced six months of indiscriminate bombing and intentional starvation at the hands of the Israeli government . These actions are inspired by Columbia University , where more than a hundred protesters were arrested . The suppression of legitimate pro-Palestinian speech is undemocratic , distracts needed attention from the escalating conflict in the Middle East , and , ironically , creates space for hateful ideologies like antisemitism to gain a foothold . Support for Palestinians must be accepted as a legitimate political position in this country . ( Nathan Foster ) <h> MAY : GOP hones its message on abortion ; Trump convicted <p> The chair of the National Republican Senatorial Committee said , " We 're advising our candidates first of all to take a position on abortion that best matches the state they represent . " This proves what many of us have known all along about Republican politicians : They believe that abortion should be illegal in all cases except when it endangers the life of a vote . ( Dominic Cuc ? ) <p> Donald Trump prepared to make comments to members of the media after a jury convicted him of felony crimes for falsifying business records in a scheme to illegally influence the 2016 election , at Manhattan Criminal Court on May 30 in New York.Seth Wenig/Associated Press <p> Let it never be forgotten that on May 30 , 2024 , Donald Trump was convicted by a jury of his peers and that the individuals who were seated on this jury were accepted by both the prosecution and the defense as impartial and capable of rendering a fair decision based upon the evidence presented to them . The Republican Party now faces the historic but dubious distinction of nominating a convicted felon and serial liar for president of the United States . ( Martin Yaseen ) <p> Republican Senator Lindsey Graham referred to the flying of the insurrection symbol , the upside-down American flag , at the home of Supreme Court Justice Samuel Alito as " not good judgment . " Going outside in subzero temperatures without a hat or gloves is not good judgment . Getting your boyfriend 's name tattooed on your arm when you 're 14 is not good judgment . What Alito did points to the justice 's inability to do the only thing his job requires : make highly educated , highly informed , thoughtful , and carefully considered judgments that will affect the lives of millions of people , now and in years to come . ( Naomi Angoff Chedd ) <p> Two days after the Rolling Stones concert at Gillette Stadium , my knees were still creaking . But that night , I felt immortal , just like Mick Jagger . If he can sing , dance , strut , shout , and give witness , well , so can I. ( Karen Algus ) <p> Either Hunter Biden and Donald Trump were both victims of miscarriages of justice or both were rightly convicted by a jury of their peers . There can be no other alternative . ( Brian Pomodoro ) <p> My wife , who is not a basketball fan , saw Jayson Tatum being interviewed after the Celtics won the championship . She was impressed with how down to earth he is . These Celtics respect their opponents , their coaches , the fans , and the game of basketball . They all proved that you can be a nice guy and still finish on top . ( Ken Slaughter ) <p> Jocardo Ralston , 47 , a Pennsylvania resident and supporter of President Biden , watched the presidential debate between Biden and Republican Donald Trump at Tillie 's Lounge on June 27 in Cincinnati.Carolyn Kaster/Associated Press <p> After his performance on the debate stage in Atlanta , I do n't think there is any other choice but to replace President Biden at the top of the Democratic ticket . There is still more than a month until the convention and more than four months until the election , so it is certainly possible . But time is of the essence . ( Cathy Putnam ) <p> The use of violence as a political weapon is never acceptable . An assassin 's bullet is not the way to prevent a Trumpian dystopia . It ought to go without saying that violence begets violence , and one shudders at the prospect of a series of assassinations across the American political landscape . No , as much as one might loathe the former president , his defeat must come by way of the democratic process that we embrace and he abhors . ( Michael Knosp ) <p> President Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris have done a great job over the past three and a half years . This campaign should be a slam dunk : democracy vs. fascism . Biden trusted Harris to be his running mate in 2020 ; it 's time to trust her to carry on his legacy of hard work , legislative success , and decency into the next four years . ( Andrew Maynard ) <h> AUGUST : Mass. legislative session fizzles at the finish <p> In most jobs , the person who decides whether to hire and fire you and the person who controls your pay are the same person : what we call a boss . However , in the Legislature , there 's a split : The people who hire and fire you are your constituents , who can exert that power every election , and the people who decide your pay are the legislative leadership , who can dole out the perks with chairs , vice chairs , and other positions . The collective boss of " we the people " needs to do more to remind legislators whom they ultimately serve . ( Jonathan Cohn ) <h> SEPTEMBER : State Police recruit dies in training <p> It is unconscionable that a young man , training to be a Massachusetts state trooper , could die as a result of what officials described as a " defensive tactics training exercise . " That is a peculiar euphemism for a recruit 's allegedly having been pummeled to death . The current training protocol for State Police recruits is abusive , cruel , and dehumanizing and needs to be overhauled ASAP . ( Leslie Shapiro ) <h> OCTOBER : MCAS put to a vote <p> How we love numbers , data , ratings , lists , and rankings . They provide a sense of certainty in our uncertain lives . But no standardized test , or single assessment of any kind , is good enough to determine whether a child is qualified to graduate from high school . We need to look at the total picture because no student is standard . After all , we are n't educating widgets . ( Bill Schechter ) <h> NOVEMBER : Trump wins ; Moulton stirs debate <p> Like it or not , most Americans were in the mood for John Wayne movies . Democrats offered " Sesame Street " episodes instead . Therein hangs the tale -- and the election . ( Richard Chait ) <p> Donald Trump was elected by the popular vote and the Electoral College , by Americans who were looking for a change in the way our government is run and the policies that define it . ( Paul Faenza ) <p> Vice President Kamala Harris delivered a concession speech on the campus of Howard University in Washington on Nov. 6 . Pablo Martinez Monsivais/Associated Press <p> Of all the reasons given for Vice President Kamala Harris 's election loss , one remains largely unmentioned : old-fashioned male chauvinism . Strong women have been elected to lead democratic nations throughout the world , yet we remain the conspicuous exception . We preach a lot about inclusion in our democracy , but we still have a long way to go . ( Kate Robinson ) <p> Representative Seth Moulton is clearly upset at his party 's poor showing in the election , and in an embarrassing fit of pique , the congressman ( and grown man ) directed his rage not at the failures of his own party but at students at play -- children , in other words . And not just any children , but trans children , who already suffer some of the highest rates of bullying and suicidal ideation in the country . ( Mark Sheridan ) <p> It is possible to be totally supportive of transgender youth and also have concerns about girls competing in athletics against those who were born male . To deny or ignore the legitimacy of parental concerns about such competition -- and to shame those who express such concerns -- is the same kind of reflexive arrogance that cost the Democratic Party millions of votes . Unless we are willing to appreciate and discuss legitimate concerns of others , satisfactory solutions to issues will evade us and we will retreat to our echo chambers . ( Daniel L. Goldberg ) <h> DECEMBER : Biden pardons son Hunter ; health insurance CEO killed <p> In the debate over President Biden 's pardon of his son Hunter , let 's not lose sight of how important clemency , record sealing , and second chances are to countless other people across the country . People from powerful and wealthy families may not have to worry about getting a job or becoming homeless , but there are millions of others who desperately need second chances . ( Ventura Dennis ) <p> I can understand the anger at insurance companies that deny necessary health services and medications , but murder is definitely not the solution . I am appalled and embarrassed that so many people are cheering the death of UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson and making the suspect in his fatal shooting into a folk hero . This is not the way to spur a debate about the health care system . ( Nancy Robertson ) 
@@119340753 <p> WASHINGTON -- After dealing devastating blows to militant groups Hamas and Hezbollah , Israel is now directing its military prowess at another key force backed by Iran : the Houthi rebels in Yemen . <p> On Friday , Israel said it had attacked Yemen 's international airport in the capital of Sanaa as well as several power plants and seaports , all under Houthi control . That followed Houthi firing of rockets into Israel , one hitting a school . And later Friday , the Houthis said they had targeted Israel 's airport , although that missile was apparently intercepted . <p> At least nine people were reported killed in Yemen and 16 were injured in Israel in attacks and counterattacks over the last week or so as the two sides ramped up their long-simmering conflict . <p> Advertisement <p> The Israeli attack on Yemen 's airport on Thursday took place as the director general of the World Health Organization , Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus , waited to board a flight . He was not injured but United Nations officials said aid supplies destined for besieged Yemenis would be interrupted . Israel said the airport was being used by Iran to smuggle weapons to the Houthis . <p> Workers walk past broken glass at Sanaa International Airport a day after Thursday 's Israeli airstrikes on Yemen . The Israeli military reported targeting infrastructure used by the Houthis at the airport and other sites . <p> ( Osamah Abdulrahman / Associated Press ) <p> Israel sought and will receive a rare hearing at the U.N . Security Council on Monday to discuss the Houthi conflict , Israel 's ambassador to the world body , Danny Danon , told The Times . Normally other countries call for sessions to criticize Israel , but Israel was able to take advantage of the U.S. position as the rotating chair of the Security Council . <p> Advertisement <p> Danon said he would ask the council to formally condemn the Houthis but remained skeptical of any meaningful action , especially given the veto power held by China and Russia . <p> " We intend to point out to Iran and the Houthis what happened to Hamas , " Danon said in a telephone interview from New York , site of U.N . headquarters . " It seems that the Houthis have not yet understood what happens to those who try to harm the State of Israel . ... We are not playing around . " <p> Over the last 14 months , Israel has pounded Hamas in the Gaza Strip , killing tens of thousands of fighters and civilian Palestinians . The war began when Hamas attacked southern Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , killing about 1,200 people and taking about 250 hostage . <p> This fall , Israel destroyed much of the leadership and infrastructure of Hezbollah , a militant and political faction in Lebanon that had increased rocket attacks into Israel that it says are in support of Hamas . <p> Israel has also exchanged missile barrages with the main backer of Hamas and Hezbollah , Iran . Airstrikes reportedly crippled much of Iran 's defensive capabilities . <p> Separately , Israel 's other Iran-backed nemesis , the government of Syrian President Bashar Assad , collapsed this month under pressure from an assortment of rebel groups , the strongest backed by Turkey . <p> Loved ones are now searching for the estimated 150,000 people who were detained and disappeared in Bashar Assad 's Syrian government gulags . <p> Dec. 12 , 2024 <p> " The Middle East has changed , " Danon said . <p> What remained were the Houthis . Also claiming they were acting in support of Hamas in the Gaza war , they launched a series of missile attacks on ships traversing the Red Sea as part of a major commerce chain . <p> The Biden administration also launched airstrikes on the Houthis earlier this year in response to the attacks on sea vessels and has tried to assemble a collection of countries to protect shipping lanes from the Houthis . <p> " We 've tried to raise the consciousness of countries , not only in the region but well beyond , of the damage that the Houthi actions are having to international commerce in real and meaningful ways , " Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken said at the Council on Foreign Relations this month . <p> Smoke rises from the area around the airport after an airstrike , as seen from Sanaa , Yemen , on Thursday . <p> ( Osamah Abdulrahman / Associated Press ) <p> " The rise of the Houthis ... has gotten them to a place where they have assets that have built up , that they have not been shy about using , " Blinken said . " My concern ... is that even when we get to the point where the conflict in Gaza is over , the Houthis may well continue , because they put themselves on the world stage . " <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , speaking to an Israeli television news channel this week , made clear that the Houthis in Yemen are the next front line . <p> Advertisement <p> " We will strike them to the bitter end , until they learn , " Netanyahu said . " Hamas learned , Hezbollah learned , and Syria learned . The Houthis will learn , too . " 
@@119341245 <p> Protests in the streets , turmoil at City Hall , corruption trials galore , historically bad baseball and a massive influx of buzzing arthropods unlike any seen since the 1800s . <p> No wonder so many Chicagoans sought peace at the sidewalk altar of a once-airborne rodent that imprinted itself into a slab of concrete -- and into the city 's heart . <p> In a year that had the national spotlight squared on Chicago , the Sun-Times saw it all . Here 's how we 'll remember 2024 . <h> Chicago shines for DNC <p> Even Chicago 's famously mercurial weather cooperated through all four days of the Democratic National Convention , which went off without a hitch despite weeks of intraparty uncertainty heading into the spectacle . <p> Mayor Brandon Johnson earned high marks for shepherding a smooth week for thousands of delegates and media from around the world , while Chicago Police Supt. Larry Snelling enjoyed rave reviews for keeping a reasonable lid on massive protests that mostly focused on the war in Gaza . <p> Delegates cheer on day four of the Democratic National Convention at the United Center on Aug. 22 . <p> Manuel Martinez/WBEZ <p> The made-for-TV pep rally took on heightened excitement following President Joe Biden 's late withdrawal from the race , while some local flair was injected into the national conversation . The party 's new nominee , Vice President Kamala Harris , vetted Gov . JB Pritzker as her potential running mate . <h> Brandon Johnson 's sophomore slump <p> The DNC provided a rare highlight for the first-term mayor , who could warrant his own top-10 list for bad news cycles in 2024 . <p> Fault lines started showing early in the year when voters rejected Johnson 's Bring Chicago Home referendum , nixing higher taxes on expensive real estate transactions -- money that would have been used to help shelter the city 's unhoused population -- and delivering the first major roadblock to his progressive agenda . <p> Mayor Brandon Johnson presides over a special City Council meeting at City Hall Oct. 22 . <p> A revolving door on the fifth floor of City Hall included Johnson 's firing of a longtime confidant and spokesman accused of sexual harassment and antisemitism . And do n't forget Johnson 's pick for school board president who lasted all of one week before a troubling history of social media posts -- inexplicably missed by Johnson 's office during the hiring process -- led to a swift ouster . <p> The political chaos came to a crescendo late in the year as an emboldened Council , by a stunning 50-0 vote , shot down the $300 million property tax hike Johnson had included in his proposed 2025 budget -- breaking a campaign promise not to raise them . After a series of budget concessions , Johnson scrapped any property tax hike to win Council approval for a budget that relies heavily on one-time revenues and nickel-and-dime fee increases . <p> Meanwhile , Johnson worked for months to force Chicago Public Schools CEO Pedro Martinez out of his post , installing an entire school board that voted Dec. 21 to fire him -- before the city 's first-ever elected board members had a chance to weigh in . The move raised fresh questions about the overwhelming influence of the Chicago Teachers Union . <p> Chicago Teachers Union President Stacy Davis Gates looks on as Mayor Brandon Johnson greets supporters at Brighton Park Elementary School on the Southwest Side on the first day of school for Chicago Public Schools on Aug. 21 , 2023 . <p> Ashlee Rezin/Sun-Times file photo <h> Preparing for Trump 's return <p> Donald Trump 's resounding victory to retake the White House put officials on notice in Democratic-dominated Illinois , where the Republican president-elect saw a marginal uptick in voter support . <p> Officials also raced to lock up key federal transit funding for an extension of the CTA Red Line , the type of assistance from Washington that Democrats say Trump may be keen on withholding from the city that has served as his preferred political punching bag . <p> Extending the CTA 's Red Line past its current southern terminus at 95th Street has been a goal decades in the making . Here , in January 2018 , then-Mayor Rahm Emanuel joined CTA President Dorval Carter to announce the route for that extension had been finalized . But federal funding crucial to the project was n't fully locked down until earlier this month . <p> Ashlee Rezin/Sun-Times file photo <h> Landmark corruption cases <p> One multi-generational poster boy of Chicago politics saw his federal corruption case come to a head while the fate of another hung in the balance to close out 2024 . <p> Former Ald. Ed Burke ( 14th ) walks with family , supporters and attorneys out of federal court after being sentenced on June 24 . <p> Ashlee Rezin/Sun-Times file photo <p> Mike Madigan spent weeks in a courtroom listening to federal prosecutors map out his sprawling web of influence as speaker of the Illinois House for jurors who will soon be tasked with deciding if Madigan wielded it to squeeze companies for payments to his political cronies . <h> Natural wonders <p> Cicadas and tornadoes and geomagnetic storms , oh my ! <p> Mother Nature kept things interesting for Chicagoans with the first dual-emergence of periodical broods of cicadas in more than 200 years , inundating some parts of the area with the very noisy , mostly harmless and debatably tasty insects . <p> They crawled out of the ground shortly after the latest solar eclipse bedazzled the Midwest , drawing thousands of people to the path of totality that just narrowly missed the city . <p> Stephanie Adams , plant health care leader at the Morton Arboretum , holds periodical cicadas , which emerged in the Chicago area for the first time in 17 years . <p> Ashlee Rezin/Sun-Times file photo <p> Some of the freshly unearthed cicadas were still around for the first in a series of rare aurora borealis displays powered by intense solar storms , igniting the northern lights over Lake Michigan even downtown . <p> But the natural marvels were n't all friendly . Thirty-one Chicago-area tornadoes in July set a new record as more frequent bouts of heavy rain and flooding provided a sobering reminder of the looming impacts of climate change . <h> Up-and-down year for CPD <p> It was a mixed bag for Snelling in his first full year at the helm of the Chicago Police Department . <p> Overseeing a seamless DNC earned the freshman superintendent a growing drumbeat of support from Council members across the political spectrum , especially with his department on pace for fewer than 600 homicides , the lowest yearly toll since before the COVID-19 pandemic . <p> Chicago police Supt. Larry Snelling walks past Chicago Mayor Brandon Johnson while walking to the mic during a news conference after the DNC . <p> Pat Nabong/Sun-Times file photo <p> But the killing of 26-year-old Dexter Reed in a hail of 96 bullets during a traffic stop raised new questions about the use of force in the ranks , and a federal monitor last month reminded officials that the department is far behind in its long-running reform effort , reaching full compliance with just 9% of the steps laid out in a consent decree . <p> Dozens of elected officials have joined a chorus calling for the reassignment of the Cook County judge who could 've detained a man before he allegedly killed his wife , Lacramioara Beldie , in Portage Park . <h> Ebb in new arrivals of asylum seekers <p> The influx of thousands of migrants from the southern border that once overwhelmed the city 's social safety net slowed to a trickle under tighter Biden administration deportation policies , ending months of acrimony over city spending that highlighted racial divides in Chicago . <p> Migrants wait in line for food outside a shelter at 1310 N. Elston Ave . in March . <p> Anthony Vazquez/Sun-Times file photo <p> Concerns over Texas Gov . Greg Abbott sending busloads of migrants to Chicago to embarrass the city during the DNC never materialized . By year 's end the city had closed its migrant landing zone completely as it merged shelter systems for newly arrived asylum seekers and homeless people who have long lived on Chicago 's streets and in its alleys , parks and viaducts . <h> Chicago teams struggle inside and outside the stadium <p> White Sox owner Jerry Reinsdorf threw his hat in the public financing ring with a splashy pitch for a new South Loop ballpark , but got shut out by state lawmakers who have rejected giving a dime to either them or the Bears -- who rolled out their own renderings of a shiny new lakeside dome . <p> A rendering of the interior of a proposed new stadium for the White Sox at The 78 in the South Loop . <h> Rat hole <p> Rat hole ( noun ) -- rodent-shaped imprint on a Roscoe Village sidewalk that drew hordes of curious onlookers for several months in 2024 to the glee of Chicago social media users and chagrin of neighborhood residents . <p> The latest entry into the Chicago lexicon was inscribed in January when photos of the four-legged sidewalk stamp -- which some argue was actually left by a squirrel -- went viral online , drawing tourists to the 1900 block of West Roscoe with offerings of coins , and prompting at least one couple to tie the knot . <p> Mo Flanagan pours Mal ? rt into Chicago 's rat hole as an offering , in the 1900 block of West Roscoe Street in the Roscoe Village neighborhood . <p> Tyler Pasciak LaRiviere/Sun-Times file photo <p> The city removed ( but preserved ) the pseudo-sacred sidewalk in April at the request of nearby residents none too pleased with round-the-clock foot traffic . <p> What 's next for the rat hole ? We 'll see in 2025 . <h> Other major 2024 stories <p> CTA President Dorval Carter 's seat got hotter as head of a transit agency beset by long wait times , understaffing and looming budget crises . <p> I learned about cempasuchil 's spiritual connection with the holiday as a child , but I never learned much about the flower 's ancient history . Working on the story gave me a better understanding of its importance on my own ofrendas. 
@@119342956 <p> ( CNN ) -- Staff at a hospital in northern Gaza say the building has been surrounded by Israeli forces who set fire to medical departments and ordered staff and patients to evacuate , after reports of a nearby airstrike that the local health ministry said killed about 50 people . <p> Israeli forces " are besieging Kamal Adwan Hospital and issuing orders for its evacuation , " hospital director Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya said in a post on social media early on Friday . <p> A nurse and a journalist inside the hospital , which is in the enclave 's Beit Lahiya district , said the same . In audio messages CNN has listened to , they said people there had been ordered to leave the hospital and go to the yard of the compound . <p> Earlier on Friday , a video shared by nurse Walid Al Budi , who was also inside the hospital , showed a fire burning in its archive department . Heavy gunfire can be heard in the background . <p> The Israeli military had been " burning all the operating departments in the hospital , " Abu Safiya said in an Instagram post , adding that the military had evacuated all the displaced people and medical personnel from the hospital . Abu Safiya said that some staff had been detained and that a large number had been injured . <p> An audio message from staff at Kamal Adwan said that " surgical departments , laboratory , maintenance , and emergency units have been completely burned , and the fire is now spreading to the buildings . " <p> " Ambulances have been dispatched to transport the injured to the Indonesian Hospital , which lacks medical supplies , water , medicine , and even electricity or generators , " the message said . <p> The Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) said it had begun operations around the hospital based on intelligence " regarding the presence of terrorist infrastructure and operatives " there . <p> " The Kamal Adwan Hospital serves as a Hamas terrorist stronghold in northern Gaza , " the IDF claimed , adding that its troops are conducting " targeted operations in the area while mitigating harm to uninvolved civilians , patients , and medical personnel . " <p> " IDF troops facilitated the secure evacuation of civilians , patients , and medical personnel prior to the operation , " it said , " with ambulances for transportation to additional hospitals in the Gaza Strip to ensure continued medical treatment . " <h> ' Bodies remain in the street ' <p> The hospital and its surroundings have come under an onslaught of Israeli attacks in recent months , Abu Safiya has said . Late on Thursday , about 50 people , including five medical workers , were killed after Israeli strikes nearby , according to the Ministry of Health in Gaza and Abu Safiya . <p> " There are approximately 50 martyrs , including three of our medical staff , under the rubble of a building opposite Kamal Adwan Hospital after an airstrike by the occupying forces , " Abu Safiya said . <p> Among the three hospital workers killed was paediatrician Dr. Ahmed Samour , who was on duty on Thursday but went to the building opposite the hospital -- where he and his family live -- when the strike hit , said Abu Safiya . A lab technician and a maintenance worker were also killed . <p> Two paramedics were killed in a strike near the hospital while on their way there , the director said . " Their bodies remain in the street where no one can reach them , " he added . <p> In a statement Thursday to CNN , the Israeli military said it was " unaware of strikes in the area of Kamal Adwan Hospital , " but added that claims that five medical personnel have been killed " are being examined . " <p> " The number of casualties reported in the media does not align with the information held " by the Israeli military , it said . <p> Israeli forces launched a renewed aerial and ground incursion in several parts of northern Gaza in early October this year , saying they were targeting a resurgent Hamas presence there . The two-month onslaught has razed streets to carpets of debris , killed entire families , and severely depleted food , water and medical stocks . <p> Earlier on Thursday a Palestinian nurse was left fighting for his life with a fractured skull after Israeli forces detonated a robot in front of the hospital , the Ministry of Health in the enclave said . <p> The Israeli military told CNN it is " looking into " the incident . <h> ' Catastrophic impact ' <p> Israel says that Hamas operates inside and underneath hospitals , and is using them for military operations , including as command centers , weapons stores and to hide hostages . The Israelis have released footage they say is evidence of those Hamas operations . The videos do not offer definitive proof , and Hamas has denied the claims . <p> The World Health Organization ( WHO ) has previously said that Israeli authorities have repeatedly denied humanitarian access to Kamal Adwan Hospital and just this week said that a request to deploy international emergency medical teams was denied by Israeli authorities , " despite the need for immediate surgical interventions for injured patients . " <p> Israeli organization Physicians for Human Rights has filed an urgent petition with Israel 's High Court " demanding an immediate cessation of ongoing attacks on Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza , " a statement from the organization said on Wednesday . <p> The " petition presents grave evidence of the catastrophic impact on the hospital and its staff over the past year , " the statement says . <p> " Evacuating Kamal Adwan Hospital would abandon thousands of residents in northern Gaza without access to medical treatment for the sick and injured . Many of the patients currently receiving care can not be safely evacuated due to constant gunfire in the vicinity and the military 's restrictions on ambulance operations , " the Israeli human rights organization added . 
@@119349448 <p> INTERVIEW : Vybz Kartel has remained one of the most prolific artists of our time , even during his incarceration . The " Fever " artist details his upcoming performance at the Jamaica National Stadium ( including two secret high-profile guests ) , his first time hearing Skillibeng , current musical inspiration , and why Lil Wayne is the greatest lyricist in his books . <p> The comet has officially landed . After 13 years , countless singles and mixtapes , and a legend that grew exponentially in his physical absence , Vybz Kartelwalked out of prison a free man in July . It was a surreal moment in a year filled with twists and turns , especially since it felt like the life sentence he received marked a dead end in his career . However , that was n't the case . Even while incarcerated , Vybz Kartel maintained a prolific output ( which earned him a nomination at the 2025 Grammy Awards ) and kept his fanbase well-fed with plenty of music while his influence expanded across the globe . A new crop of superstars emerged during this time -- both in dancehall and beyond -- that he directly inspired . <p> As we approach the new year , Vybz Kartel is back on the road and enjoying every minute of it . On December 31st , he 'll ring in the new year with the highly-anticipated Freedom Street Concert , produced by Downsound Entertainment -- the team behind Jamaica 's largest annual musical festival , Sumfest . It will mark his first performance in 13 years , a moment he says he 's been prepared for well before his release . <p> " I 've always been ready , mentally , because that 's the determination that Vybz Kartel has , " he tells HotNewHipHop over a Zoom call from the bank . " I mean , I 've been in prison for 13 years fighting for my freedom , fighting for my health , fighting for my children , fighting to reclaim the spot that I left . So mentally , I 'm prepared . Physically , we 're ready , as well . 99% there . It 's going to be amazing . Like , it 's literally a three-hour performance . " <p> He likens the upcoming concert to something you 'd see from Taylor Swift or Madonna . It will be equipped with a stage in the center of the Jamaica National Stadium and a host of special guests , including Popcaan , Shatta Wale , Masicka , Spice , Skillibeng , Tommy Lee Sparta , Chronic Law , Shawn Storm , Lisa Hype , Sheba , Gaza Indu , Likkle Addi , and Likkle Vybz . <p> " I mean , this is Vybz Kartel , the epitome of what I represent , " he says of the line-up . " Not just me being at the table , but bringing everyone with me , as I 've always done , you know what I mean ? Because we learned it from the great Bounty Killer . We learned that when you 're eating , others have to eat , as well . " <p> However , it would n't be complete without some surprise guests , one of which includes Busta Rhymes , as well as , " someone special from Canada to represent and we also want to bring someone special from New York as well , from the Bronx . " We recently caught up with Vybz Kartel to discuss his release from prison , his everlasting influence on artists like Drake and Cardi B , and reclaiming his throne in dancehall . <p> Tickets for the Freedom Street Concert are available at **28;1801;TOOLONG and at retail outlets across Jamaica . For those who wo n't be able to attend in person , you could also access the global livestream for $29.75 , then it's$39.75 starting Saturday , December 29 . Livestream begins at 9:30 pm ET on Dec 31 , 2024 . <p> This interview has been edited and condensed for clarity . <p> HotNewHipHop : You 're the king of dancehall and maintained that position throughout incarceration . How does it feel to physically reclaim your throne ? <p> Vybz Kartel : I mean , how does it feel to physically reclaim the throne as King of Dancehall ? I mean , it 's an amazing feeling . I mean , just to be free after 13 years is an amazing feeling , but to come back and sit on the throne and get that reception from the fans , it 's an amazing feeling . It 's very humbling , as well . Because come on , it 's been 13 years , and people 's attention span is not that long , so it 's an amazing feeling , and I feel great . <p> The Freedom Concert on NYE will mark your first official live concert in over a decade . What should be expected ? <p> I mean , what I want people to expect from me on the Freedom Street Concert is what Vybz Kartel has always been giving the people : the unexpected . I mean , not to give too much away , but this concert is going to be amazing . Not only will the people be able to celebrate with Vybz Kartel , but there will be a host of high-end , top-level entertainers on the stage with me . <p> And , also the stage itself -- trust me , people are going to witness something they 've never witnessed before . This stage alone is like ... the setup is what a Madonna would use , a Taylor Swift . It 's like that level . So just the stage , the performance , the amount of hit songs that are going to be delivered on that night -- trust me , it 's going to be amazing . The fans are in for a treat that they 'll never forget . <p> I mean , this is Vybz Kartel , the epitome of what I represent . Not just me being at the table , but bringing everyone with me , as I 've always done , you know what I mean ? Because we learned it from the Great Bounty Killer . We learned that when you 're eating , others have to eat , as well . So that 's what this means to me . And I mean , I brought Popcaan . Remember , he 's originally from the Gaza . Tommy Lee , Sheba , Gaza Indu , my kids -- they 're all from the Gaza . Skillibeng , influenced by Kartel . La Boss , influenced by Kartel . So it 's a culmination of what Vybz Kartel has always envisioned : the unity , the love , and that 's what we 're bringing to the people at Freedom Street . <p> As for any special guests , can you give us a hint of who it might be ? <p> I mean , as it relates to special guests on the night , obviously , you know there 's going to be Busta Rhymes from New York ; Shatta Wale . And we definitely want to bring someone special from Canada to represent and we also want to bring someone special from New York as well , from the Bronx . So without giving too much away , just know it 's going to be craaazy . Trust me . <p> Photo Credit : ADDI LENS film crew <p> One of your final performances , if not your final performance , before your arrest was in Trinidad . With how long you 've been away from the stage , how have you been mentally and physically preparing for the Freedom Street Concert ? <p> I 've been mentally and physically preparing for the Freedom Street Concert in more ways than one . I mean , I 'm in the gymnasium , working out . I do yoga as well , and I do my nutrition program . I 'm on a nutrition program as well , so it 's plant-based . The only exception is we do the protein shake . So the physical training is on point . Like I said , the yoga is there , and just mentally , I 'm ready . I 've always been ready , mentally , because that 's the determination that Vybz Kartel has . I mean , I 've been in prison for 13 years fighting for my freedom , fighting for my health , fighting for my children , fighting to reclaim the spot that I left . So mentally , I 'm prepared . Physically , we 're ready , as well . 99% there . It 's going to be amazing . Like , it 's literally a three-hour performance . <p> You were n't lying when you said it was going to be Taylor Swift-level . <p> Exactly laughs , exactly . It 's definitely Taylor Swift-level , I 'm telling you . Like high energy , big stage in the center of the stadium . I do n't even want to give too much away but trust me , people are going to love it . It 's a memorable moment . <p> What 's your reaction when you see the success of artists like Popcaan , Spice , and Skillibeng ? <p> It 's an amazing feeling . I could never be prouder . It 's an amazing feeling to see the Popcaan , to see Skillibeng , to see Spice take dancehall to that super international level , knowing that I had a hand in these artists ' careers , especially as it relates to Popcaan , because he came around me as a kid , you know ? So I feel so proud , not just for myself but for what he 's doing for Jamaica , for dancehall music , taking it to that next level . Spice , you know , she 's my sister . We grew up together in Portmore so that 's a different feeling on its own . <p> Skillibeng , I mean , he admits Vybz Kartel is his biggest influence , and to be honest , before I even knew that , the first time I heard Skillibeng , I was like , " Who the f*ck is this guy ? Like , how does he rhyme like that ? " In other words , when I came out , how people used to think about me , that 's how I think about Skillibeng . Like bro , how does he do that ? So the feeling is an amazing feeling . I feel proud , I feel overwhelmed , and it 's great for the culture , it 's great for the country . So , yeah , it is what it is . <p> Your sons are also artists now . What 's the feeling like , just being in the studio with your kids and seeing them carry your legacy and the influence you have through their music ? <p> I mean , seeing my sons elevate to a level where they can financially take care of themselves through music -- because they have always loved music since they were children -- it 's an amazing feeling . And to be in the studio with them when I came home ... bro , I literally broke down , like literal tears came out my face . So , for me to watch them , knowing that when I went to prison , they were kids , and by the time I come out , these guys are getting booked for shows and having their own music videos . Trust me , it 's an amazing feeling . A father could not be prouder , you know ? So , yeah , big up to Likkle Vybz and Likkle Addi , fully . <p> You recently revealed the secret behind recording in prison but now that you 're back home , I 'm wondering how that creative process has changed for you . <p> Yes , I revealed the secret to my studio recordings in prison the other day , and now I 'm out , and the creative process is basically the same . I mean , I just sit there with my thoughts , with the riddim playing , and I just spit , you know what I mean ? No pen , no paper , you just flow from the top , from the dome , and that 's how I 've done it for like the past ... since about 2006 , 2007 , I 've been doing that . So the creative process has n't changed but what has changed is now I 'm more comfortable . I do n't have to be looking out if the officers are coming while I 'm recording . While I was in the cell , I had to be like , you know , " Tick Tock , Tick Tock , " and then I got to be looking like , " What the f*ck ? " So now I can just flow without interruption . So yes , that 's the only thing that has changed . The creative process is the same . <p> What has been inspiring your music ? <p> What has been inspiring my music ? That 's a great question . I mean , life , people . Before I got released , I did a song , I think it was about 2016 when I said , " The comet is coming . " And then when I came out , I did the song , " I thought I told you that the comet is coming . " You know , it 's actually at 10 million views now . So , I mean , I guess just life is my inspiration . People , my day-to-day , life , people around me , supporters , haters , friends , families , enemies . So I would just say life . My inspiration , I get it from just living . <p> Drake has been a massive supporter of yours and even named you one of his biggest influences . What have those initial conversations with him been like since you came home ? <p> Yes , Drake . He said I 'm his influence , but he 's also one of my influences . And funny enough , since I came out , we have n't spoken , but while I was in prison , we spoke , and it was always an energy and a vibe , you know ? I mean , always good energy , always good vibes . But since I came out , we have n't spoken , because I 've been all over the place , and obviously , he 's doing his stuff . But yeah , man , ' nuff respect to Drake , trust me , man . Drizzy , yes . One Champagne Papi . So yes , it 's a great feeling . <p> Cardi B , as well . You know , she 's one of my biggest influences . I 'm one of hers . So the energy is reciprocated on both sides . That 's a good look and a great look , not just for me personally , but for both genres , for hip hop and dancehall . So it 's a good look . So I appreciate those guys , trust me . <p> You 've previously stated Lil Wayne is one of your favorite musical artists . Have there been any updates on a potential collaboration between you two ? <p> Yes , Lil Wayne is one of my favorite artists . In my opinion , the best lyricist alive in hip-hop . And do n't come at me , do n't come for me . That 's my opinion . And no , I 've never spoken to Lil Wayne , but like I said , I 'm an artist , and look , one of the reasons why Vybz Kartel is such a dominant persona and a dominant artist in dancehall is because , first and foremost , I am a fan of music . I 'm a student of music . So with that being said , Lil Wayne , in my opinion , is the best lyricist , bar none . No pun unintended . But I 've never spoken to it before . But yeah , big up Weezy . <p> I read somewhere that Mick Jagger called you one of his favorite rappers at one point . Why do you think that your music transcends age , background , and genre ? <p> I mean , I think my music transcends age , background , genres because it 's done in its purest form . Even yesterday , I was doing an interview and someone asked me a similar question , like , " How do you sit down and write a song ? " I 'm like , I do n't sit down and write a song . I just speak from the heart , from the mind , and it resonates with people regardless of age , regardless of background , regardless of ethnicity because it 's real . <p> It 's the same with what Bob Marley used to do back in the 70s , back in the 60s , and that 's why his music is still that amazing music to this day . Because he speaks from the heart . Do n't get me wrong , Bob Marley 's content , Vybz Kartel 's content , two different contents but once it 's spoken from the heart , it 's going to resonate and it 's going to last forever so I think that 's why . I speak from the heart and I just speak my truth . I do n't try to pretty it up , I do n't try to water it down . I just speak my truth , and that 's it . <p> When all is said and done , how do you want your legacy to be remembered ? <p> How do I want my legacy to be remembered ? I want to be remembered as someone who just lived their lives and spoke the truth . What you see is what you get : unadulterated , unfiltered , just the truth . And once people look at my legacy in that way , then my work is done . I 'm good . I can rest in peace , literally . <p> Aron A. is a features editor for HotNewHipHop . Beginning his tenure at HotNewHipHop in July 2017 , he has comprehensively documented the biggest stories in the culture over the past few years . Throughout his time , Aron 's helped introduce a number of buzzing up-and-coming artists to our audience , identifying regional trends and highlighting hip-hop from across the globe . As a Canadian-based music journalist , he has also made a concerted effort to put spotlights on artists hailing from North of the border as part of Rise &amp;amp ; Grind , the weekly interview series that he created and launched in 2021 . Aron also broke a number of stories through his extensive interviews with beloved figures in the culture . These include industry vets ( Quality Control co-founder Kevin " Coach K " Lee , Wayno Clark ) , definitive producers ( DJ Paul , Hit-Boy , Zaytoven ) , cultural disruptors ( Soulja Boy ) , lyrical heavyweights ( Pusha T , Styles P , Danny Brown ) , cultural pioneers ( Dapper Dan , Big Daddy Kane ) , and the next generation of stars ( Lil Durk , Latto , Fivio Foreign , Denzel Curry ) . Aron also penned cover stories with the likes of Rick Ross , Central Cee , Moneybagg Yo , Vince Staples , and Bobby Shmurda. 
@@119373352 <h> IDF targets Hamas using North Gaza hospital as ' shelter for terrorists ' <p> The Israeli military launched a new offensive Saturday in northern Gaza , targeting Hamas fighters who have turned a hospital into a " shelter for terrorists . " <p> Troops moved north to the area around Kamal Adwan hospital outside of Beit Hanoun after concluding operations in Rafah last week , according to the Israel Defense Forces , and were met with two long-range rockets fired out of the region . <p> " Urgent warning to all those who have not yet evacuated the area specified in the map , and the Beit Hanoun area in particular , " Col. Avichay Adraee , the IDF 's Arabic-language spokesman , said on X Saturday . <p> Israeli troops on the ground in the Rafah area in the southern Gaza Strip in October . Israeli Army/AFP via Getty Images <p> The World Health Organization condemned the raid on Saturday , claiming that the hospital , which is the last major hospital operating in northern Gaza , is now out of service and parts were left severely damaged . <p> The Hamas-run Gaza Health Ministry claimed on Saturday that Israeli forces detained the hospital 's director , Hussam Abu Safiya , but a post on Instagram later denied he was arrested . <p> " All that is being circulated about Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya being arrested is false news , " a statement published to his Instagram story said . <p> The IDF published footage in October of a hospital staffer saying Hamas terrorists had swarmed the Kamal Adwan hospital , according to reports . <p> " They are in the courtyards , at the gates of the buildings , in the offices of Kamal Adwan hospital , " the worker said . " They operate ambulances to transport their wounded military operatives , and to transport them for their missions , and this is instead of using the ambulances for the benefit of civilians . " <p> Further north , Hamas called on Palestinians in the West Bank to mobilize against an " unprecedented " level of " aggression " from the Palestinian Authority , the governing body in the region . <p> Hamas accused PA security forces , which have been engaged in ongoing counter-terrorism operations , of " coercing " Palestinians into supporting a crackdown on West Bank terror groups , the Jerusalem Post reported . <p> Israeli troops on the ground in the Rafah area in the southern Gaza Strip in October . Israeli Army/AFP via Getty Images <p> Meanwhile , Israel carried out airstrikes Friday on the Syria-Lebanon border , where it says weapons have been transferred to Lebanese terror outfit Hezbollah . <p> " These strikes are an additional part of the IDF 's effort to target weapons smuggling operations from Syria into Lebanon , and prevent Hezbollah from re-establishing weapons smuggling routes , " the military announced . <p> The strikes came a day after Lebanon 's army accused Israel of violating a ceasefire agreement . 
@@119373650 <p> Rebel forces in Syria are building a transitional government after toppling the regime of President Bashar Assad in a lightning-quick advance across the country . <p> Meanwhile , the ceasefire in Lebanon is holding despite ongoing Israeli airstrikes on Hezbollah targets , which Israeli officials say are responses to ceasefire violations by the Iranian-backed militant group . The Israel Defense Forces continues its intense airstrike and ground campaigns in Gaza . <p> Tensions remain high between Israel and Iran after tit-for-tat long-range strikes in recent months and threats of further military action from both sides . The IDF and the Yemeni Houthis also continue to exchange attacks . <h> Netanyahu to undergo surgery Sunday <p> The Israeli Prime Minister 's Office has announced that Benjamin Netanyahu will undergo surgery Sunday to remove his prostate after he was diagnosed with a urinary tract infection resulting from a benign prostate enlargement . <p> Netanyahu underwent hernia surgery under full anesthesia in March . <p> Per a March 2024 government decision , Justice Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Yariv Levin will be the person temporarily in charge when the prime minister is physically unable to perform his duties . <p> -ABC News ' Bruno Nota <p> 11:57 AM EST <h> IDF issues statement on Kamal Adwan Hospital raid <p> The IDF released a statement outlining their operations in and around Kamal Adwan Hospital in the last few days . <p> The Israel Defense Forces said the hospital was a " command center " for Hamas " military operations in Jabaliya , " although the statement and attached media do not provide corroborating evidence of this . <p> The statement says the IDF faced heavy fighting in areas near the hospital , and says the IDF detained 240 terrorists , including the director of the hospital , Dr Hossam Abu Safiya , whom it says is is " suspected of being a Hamas terrorist operative . " <p> Abu Safiya was one of the only male staff members at the hospital not detained during the IDF 's raid of the hospital in October , and he would have helped coordinate numerous resupply and patient evacuations with Israel over the last several months . <p> Kamal Adwan is the last functioning hospital in northern Gaza and is operating at a limited capacity due to a lack of medical supplies and the repeated attacks on the hospital . <p> -ABC News ' Victoria Beaule <p> Dec 27 , 2024 , 1:37 PM EST <h> Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza under attack : Health ministry <p> Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza came under attack again on Friday , according to the Palestinian Ministry of Health . <p> The ministry reported a siege was ongoing at the hospital and Israeli forces were " forcibly transferring the sick and injured " to other locations . <p> Kamal Adwan Hospital is the last functioning hospital in northern Gaza and is operating at a limited capacity due to a lack of medical supplies and the repeated attacks on the hospital . <p> A view of destruction following the Israeli attack on the courtyard of Kamal Adwan Hospital and its surrounding buildings in Beit Lahia , Gaza , Dec. 25 , 2024 . <p> Khalil Ramzi Alkahlut/Anadolu via Getty Images <p> The director of field hospitals at the Hamas-run Gaza Ministry of Health , Marwan Al-Hams , said 25 patients remain inside Kamal Adwan Hospital . <p> Israeli forces said the hospital " serves as a Hamas terrorist stronghold in northern Gaza " in a release about the attacks . <p> " Following prior IDF and ISA intelligence regarding the presence of terrorist infrastructure and operatives carrying out terror activities in the area of the Kamal Adwan Hospital in Jabaliya , soldiers of the 401st Brigade under the command of the 162nd Division began operating in the area in the last few hours , " the IDF said in a statement Friday . <p> " In order to mitigate harm to the civilian population in the area , IDF troops facilitated the secure evacuation of civilians , patients , and medical personnel prior to the operation , " the IDF said in the statement . <p> -ABC News ' Sami Zyara , Diaa Ostaz and Bruno Nota <p> Dec 27 , 2024 , 12:53 PM EST <h> White House ' actively ' working on ceasefire deal : Kirby <p> The White House is " actively working " on reaching a ceasefire-hostage deal between Israel and Hamas , national security communications adviser John Kirby told reporters Friday , but noted that " we are not there yet " and " Hamas is the obstacle . " <p> " Our backs are to it , and we are continuing to work on this as hard as we can to try to get a ceasefire deal in place before we leave office , " Kirby added . 
@@119374558 <p> Israeli soldiers have stormed , raided and burned down Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza , forcing everyone inside to evacuate and detaining dozens of the medical staff , including the director , Dr Hussam Abu Safia . <p> The sick and injured people there have no other medical facility to go to , because Israel has destroyed all the other hospitals in the north , and they can not leave the north . <p> Northern Gaza is under a " siege within a siege " imposed by Israel since October this year , trapping tens of thousands of people there with no food , services , or adequate shelter and , now , no hospitals . <p> Most of these people are civilians . Tens of thousands of children have lost at least one limb in Israeli bombing and tens of thousands are orphaned . <p> Throughout , Israel has attacked hospitals and schools where people whose homes were bombed were sheltering . <p> Advertisement <p> Most of the internal opposition to the continuation of Israel 's war on Gaza centres around demanding the release of approximately 100 captives taken from Israel in a Hamas-led operation in October 2023 . <p> However , awareness among many Israelis of the extent of their country 's actions in Gaza appears minimal . <p> The consequence , analysts say , of a pliant media that -- with a few notable exceptions -- appears ready to parrot the country 's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his increasingly far-right government . <h> At war with reality <p> In February , reports surfaced that Netanyahu was attempting to shut down public broadcaster Kan because it was resisting political pressure to alter its editorial line . <p> In November , it passed a bill severing ties with liberal Israeli newspaper Haaretz , which has proven a consistent critic of the Netanyahu government and its war on Gaza . <p> In December , the Committee to Protect Journalists ( CPJ ) said 75 reporters have been arrested by Israel in its territory , the occupied West Bank and Gaza since its war on Gaza began , with others assaulted , threatened and censored . <p> ( Al Jazeera ) <p> Israel has also killed nearly 200 journalists and media workers . <p> " Israelis have the right to know what is being done in their name , not least in the war in Gaza , " Rebecca Vincent , director of campaigns with Reporters Without Borders ( RSF ) told Al Jazeera . <p> " Netanyahu 's government is deliberately working not only to portray a distorted narrative of the war in Gaza , but to tighten state controls on media ... This will have devastating longer-term consequences for press freedom in Israel , but also for Israeli democracy , " she said . <p> Advertisement <p> Many humanitarian and rights organisations operating in Israel to defend Palestinian rights feel their voices are being silenced amid increased hostility to their mission . <p> " There is zero room for our work , " says Dr Guy Shalev , executive director of Physicians for Human Rights-Israel ( PHRI ) which campaigns for Palestinians ' right to healthcare . <p> " There 's only one platform available to PHRI and that 's Haaretz ... the only platform featuring news on Palestinians , the occupation and Gaza that is n't guided by the security apparatus , " he said . <p> " There are others ( outside the country ) , but they 're small and , if you want to speak to Israelis in Hebrew , they may as well not exist , " he said of the information vacuum many in Israel operate within . <h> Framing genocide <p> For Shalev , the issue is primarily one of framing , with news stories that reinforce the government 's war aims , rather than presenting facts . <p> On Thursday , Israel bombed Yemen , hitting the international airport in Sanaa where World Health Organization chief , Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus , was about to board a departing flight . <p> International media reported the danger to Ghebreyesus , who posted on social media that one of the flight 's crew had been injured and two people at the airport killed . <p> Our mission to negotiate the release of @UN staff detainees and to assess the health and humanitarian situation in #Yemen concluded today . We continue to call for the detainees ' immediate release . <p> In contrast , Israel 's most widely read newspaper , the free Israel Hayom , boasted of a strike during a " rebel news conference " , making no mention of the international diplomat 's near-killing . <p> Likewise , Israel 's second-most widely read newspaper , Yedioth Ahronoth , trumpeted details of the strike , with no mention of the condemnation , including by the UN . <p> When matters such as the near-total lack of humanitarian aid entering Gaza are mentioned at all , " the emphasis will be on Hamas , or armed gangs , robbing it , " Shalev said . <p> This , he said , allows the growth of an Israeli narrative that there is no famine in Gaza , and that even if there was one , " it 's Hamas who is to blame for the famine and not Israel " . <h> Isolation in an echo chamber <p> " The public is mostly UNAWARE of what happened in Gaza in the last year plus , " Haaretz columnist and former Israeli Ambassador Alon Pinkas told Al Jazeera by WhatsApp . <p> " ? Much of it is deliberate denial . It was understandable in the immediate aftermath of October 7 , 2023 , when people were devastated and wanted revenge . " <p> However , Pinkas continued : " ? It is inexcusable now . The information is there , whether ( in ) Haaretz , foreign media covering it extensively , the US administration and various humanitarian agencies . People consciously choose to ignore . " <p> According to Shalev , the outcome of the information vacuum is the increase of paranoia in a society that has been told to see itself as under siege by the international community , its courts , institutions and rights organisations for a war that -- according to much of its media -- is " legitimate " . <p> Referencing the two far-right ministers often credited as exemplars of growing Israeli hardliners , Shalev continued : " It 's more widespread than just National Security Minister Itamar Ben-Gvir or Finance Minister Bezalel Smotrich . <p> Advertisement <p> " It 's a far wider sense of Jewish supremacy . People just take that as a given . It goes beyond right wing , left wing or settlers . It 's everyone , " he said . <p> The Israeli media 's presentation of the war on Gaza , Shalev continued , is " just for the 30 to 50 percent of the population who need it . The others have already made their mind up . They do n't want to see any aid getting into Gaza , they want to see hospitals attacked . <p> " Growing up as a Jewish Israeli , all my schooling was about the Holocaust and how people at the time all said they did n't know , " he continued , " I could never understand that . <p> " Now we 're seeing it happen again in a horrific way and we 're all watching . " 
@@119374657 <h> Chicago firefighter awarded a car and $25,000 as part of Drake 's ' Drizzmas Giveaway ' <h> The Canadian rapper also gave away vacations , concert tickets and $250,000 cash prizes on Thursday . <p> Drake speaks onstage during his Till Death Do Us Part rap battle in 2021 in Long Beach , California . On Thursday , the rapper hosted his annual online " Drizzmass " giveaway during which a Chicago firefighter received a new car . <p> On Thursday , rapper Drake returned to his acting roots for perhaps his most meaningful role yet : Santa Claus . <p> Hosting the online " Drizzmas Giveaway " with Kick streamer Adin Ross , the star doled out hundreds of thousands of dollars , concert tickets , vacations and other gifts to several lucky fans , including a Chicago firefighter . <p> Broadcasting live from his Kick account , the Canadian emcee first surprised the firefighter , identified as " Ryan , " with a video call . Then , he delivered even more good news : He was giving him a car and $25,000 . <p> " Do n't tell me that , Drake , " said the firefighter and father of three , who was visibly emotional . " Thank you so much , man . " <p> Drake , aka " Drizzy , " called the firefighter a hero . <p> " What you 're doing for your family is amazing , " the rapper said . <p> Drake gave a Chicago firefighter and father of three a car during his giveaway and added $25,000 as a bonus , bringing the man to tears ? ? **26;1943;TOOLONG <p> The Chicago Fire Department did not immediately respond to a Sun-Times request to confirm the firefighter 's identity . <p> Drake and Ross hosted the giveaway in partnership with online casino Stake.com . Fans were encouraged to enter by sending an email explaining why they deserved to win . Drake read a portion of the message from the firefighter , who said he was struggling financially and falling behind on car payments . <p> " As much as I would love a vacation for two or your concert for two , my children come first , " the firefighter wrote . " I hope my submission is considered , but as a Drake fan , I think it 's great that you do this , and your fans like my wife and myself respect you for doing so . " <p> Other " Drizzmas Giveaway " gifts included a G-Wagon , $250,000 cash prizes , a vacation to Disney World , a trip to see Drake perform in Australia , and a year 's worth of rent . <p> " This is the best feeling in the world , " Drake said . " A lot of people want to help their families . A lot of people want to do a lot of great things , and we 're going to help them do it . " <p> The woman who bought the first-ever Ford Mustang , Donald Trump 's appearance at the NABJ Convention , a 1-star review of " Unfrosted " and Ed Burke 's corruption trial sentencing were among our most-read stories of the year . <p> State Sen. Robert Peters wants to restore the grants for incarcerated people . Readers also comment on Mona Charen 's criticism of the Wall Street Journal , charrette-style meetings , the " Appeal to Heaven " flag and a need for U.S. intervention in Gaza . 
@@119374658 <h> Marie 's Pizza and Liquors property in Albany Park is listed for sale at $1.7 million <h> Theodore Karavidas opened the shop in 1940 as a tavern and small packaged goods store before passing it down through two generations of his family . An agent with the realty company selling the property described it as a " redevelopment or gut rehab opportunity only . " <p> The property where Marie 's Pizza and Liquors , a beloved Albany Park pizza joint and liquor store that opened in the 1940s , is located for sale for $1.7 million , according to Darwin PW Realty . <p> It comes more than a year after the three-generation family business was " temporarily " closed while the owner helped a sick family member , Block Club Chicago reported . <p> The 8,700-square-foot building sits on a quarter-acre lot at the corner of West Lawrence Avenue and North Kedvale Avenue . An agent with the real estate group described it as a " redevelopment or gut rehab opportunity only . " <p> The agent declined to comment for this story . <p> Theodore Karavidas opened the shop in 1940 as a tavern and small packaged goods store , and was bought out by his then-21-year-old son George Karavidas eight years later . By 1950 , they had started serving pizza and knocking down walls inside to make it the restaurant and liquor store it became known as . <p> The block where the restaurant is located is dedicated to George Karavidas , whose daughter Nadine Karavidas later took over the business . <p> Amie Zander , the executive director of the Pulaski Elston Business Association , said Marie 's is the " number one " thing she gets calls about -- questions about it reopening or being redeveloped have flooded her phone lines since the business had less consistent hours after the start of the COVID-19 pandemic . <p> Zander , 47 , a lifelong Northwest Side resident , had been going since she was a kid and had fond memories of the ' 40s-inspired tinsel Christmas decorations the restaurant would be adorned in during the holidays , as well as its " iconic " Chicago tavern-style thin crust pizza . <p> The 8,700-square-foot building sits on a quarter-acre lot at the corner of West Lawrence Avenue and North Kedvale Avenue . An agent with the group described it as a " redevelopment or gut rehab opportunity only . " <p> Provided <p> " So many of our local businesses did n't have the staff and the capacity to operate the way they once did , " Zander said . " I 've been going there since I was a kid . ... It 's gon na be a big loss for the neighborhood . There was that glimmer of hope until we heard it was officially listed . " <p> After closing its dining room in 2020 during the COVID-19 pandemic , the restaurant opened intermittently for takeout before closing again in 2023 . In October , the property was used to film upcoming episodes of " Chicago PD . " <p> Zander said the neighborhood could use another place to get pizza , as the area has lost many of its sit-down restaurants and pizza joints . However , she said retail would also be welcome . <p> " Our part of Lawrence does n't have a walkable retail district , " Zander said . " It 's a really busy drive-thru neighborhood , so making more options for people to stop is kind of what we strive for . ... Hopefully this just means new beginnings for the neighborhood in 2025 . " <p> The woman who bought the first-ever Ford Mustang , Donald Trump 's appearance at the NABJ Convention , a 1-star review of " Unfrosted " and Ed Burke 's corruption trial sentencing were among our most-read stories of the year . <p> State Sen. Robert Peters wants to restore the grants for incarcerated people . Readers also comment on Mona Charen 's criticism of the Wall Street Journal , charrette-style meetings , the " Appeal to Heaven " flag and a need for U.S. intervention in Gaza . <p> A decade ago , a Cook County judge who dismissed a lawsuit by former Northwestern professor Peter Ludlow confirmed that " rape " and " sexual assault " -- what he was technically accused of -- are interchangeable in common usage . 
@@119374659 <h> County official charged with DUI will keep driver 's license , judge rules <h> Prosecutors argued Samantha Steele 's license should be revoked , but her lawyer convinced the judge to block the revocation , arguing she was n't properly warned before refusing to submit to DUI testing . Steele -- a member of the county 's property-tax appeal panel -- was arrested last month after crashing into parked cars . <p> Appearing in court for her first hearing in a DUI case , a Cook County elected official successfully fought off an effort to revoke her driver 's license on Friday , after her defense lawyer aggressively questioned the arresting Chicago Police Department officer . <p> Samantha Steele -- a first-term Democratic member of the county 's property-tax appeal panel -- was arrested last month on Chicago 's North Side and charged with driving under the influence after crashing a vehicle into parked cars . <p> Prosecutors argued her license should be revoked , but Steele 's lawyer , John Fotopoulos , convinced Associate Judge Athena James Frentzas to block the revocation , arguing CPD Officer Danny Yu failed to properly warn Steele before the Cook County Board of Review commissioner refused to submit to DUI testing . <p> Fotopoulos said Yu , a seven-year CPD veteran , " meant well " but made technical mistakes in the arrest on Nov. 10 on Ashland Avenue . <p> In his testimony , Yu repeated the assertion he made in the police report that Steele repeatedly made crass comments about the size of his penis . <p> " She repeatedly said , ' Is your penis small ? ' and ' I refuse to answer any of your questions , ' " Yu said under oath at the Daley Center . <p> Fotopoulos shot back : " What about the size of your penis has to do with her refusal ? " <p> The defense lawyer then alleged Yu told Steele , " You Democrats are going to have to start following the law now . " <p> Neither that nor the alleged comment about penis size were caught on police body camera footage because they were made at a hospital where Steele was treated after the accident and the cameras were turned off there . <p> Frentzas at first said she found Yu credible and denied the motion from Steele 's lawyer to block the license revocation , which the state 's attorney 's office had wanted . She reversed herself after Fotopoulos objected and Yu was brought back to the witness stand , where the defense lawyer grilled him again . <p> Steele left the courtroom without commenting . Fotopoulos also declined to comment , as did prosecutors . <p> The woman who bought the first-ever Ford Mustang , Donald Trump 's appearance at the NABJ Convention , a 1-star review of " Unfrosted " and Ed Burke 's corruption trial sentencing were among our most-read stories of the year . <p> State Sen. Robert Peters wants to restore the grants for incarcerated people . Readers also comment on Mona Charen 's criticism of the Wall Street Journal , charrette-style meetings , the " Appeal to Heaven " flag and a need for U.S. intervention in Gaza . 
@@119374845 <h> Why did Bangladesh events come as a shock to the government ? What about relations with China , the U.S. , countries in the neighbourhood and West Asia ? <p> All eyes will be on Russian President Vladimir Putin 's visit to Delhi , his first since the war began , expected to be finalised early in 2025 . Photo Credit : Reuters <p> The story so far : <p> After Prime Minister Narendra Modi was sworn in for a third time in June , the year was jam-packed with incoming and outgoing visits . Above all , 2024 was full of global insecurity and shocks in the neighbourhood , particularly Bangladesh . As 2025 looks to be even more uncertain , Indian foreign policy 's biggest challenge is to remain poised for change . <h> What were the high points in India 's external relations ? <p> The most difficult negotiation completed this year was for disengagement at the Line of Actual Control with China . While restoring ties and rebuilding the trust shattered by the Chinese PLA 's transgressions since 2020 is a more prolonged task , the first formal Modi-Xi Jinping meeting in five years at Kazan , on the sidelines of the BRICS summit in Russia , was a turning point . <p> The year began with a visit from French President Emmanuel Macron as a guest on Republic Day and a reaffirmation of the dependability of bilateral ties . Mr. Macron was not the government 's original invitee , as Mr. Modi had hoped to host U.S. President Joseph Biden and also hold the Quad in Delhi that time . But when Mr. Macron stepped in , Mr. Modi set the seal on a number of India-France future forays in defence , energy and maritime cooperation . Early in 2024 , the conclusion of the India-European Free Trade Association agreement , India 's first with Europe , was heralded as a template for India to complete other such negotiations , although the year ended without similar progress on FTAs with Australia , the U.K. , and the European Union . <p> The neighbourhood was also the subject of some bright spots , including the attendance of leaders of most of the neighbouring countries for Mr. Modi 's swearing-in . Pakistan was n't invited , but External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar made the first such visit in nearly a decade to Islamabad for the SCO summit . Several visits by the Bhutan King Jigme Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck and Prime Minister Tshering Tobgay as well as Mr. Modi 's visit to Thimphu to receive an award , and successful visits by the new Sri Lankan President Anura Kumara Dissanayake and Maldives President Mohamed Muizzu , setting aside the tensions earlier , were other high points of the year . <h> What kept South Block awake at night in 2024 ? <p> The transformation of Bangladesh , from a friendly neighbour and most important connectivity partner under Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina , to becoming estranged over her ouster from power in August was the year 's biggest shock for New Delhi . The MEA repeatedly raised concerns over the sharp rise in attacks on Hindu minorities that followed , and Ms. Hasina 's stay in India has become the biggest thorn in the once close partnership . <p> Ties with Canada took a turn for the worse as Canadian authorities doubled down on allegations that Indian officials had ordered the Nijjar killing , even naming Home Minister Amit Shah in the alleged conspiracy . New Delhi dealt with Canada by slamming its doors shut on PM Justin Trudeau , with the hope a new government will be elected there in 2025 . But it was n't easy to do the same with the U.S. , where the Department of Justice filed indictments against the Adani group and a new indictment against an Indian official for the alleged Pannun assassination plot . The U.S. 's role in the South Asian neighbourhood , especially with the changes in Bangladesh , and China 's forays into Nepal and other neighbours are a continuing challenge . However , the election of U.S. President Donald Trump and the largely pro-India team he has picked could be a breather . <h> How did Indian foreign policy navigate global conflict ? <p> With both the Russia-Ukraine conflict and Israel 's war in Gaza , India consistently put itself on the " side of peace " . Mr. Modi 's visits to Russia and Ukraine within weeks of each other raised speculation that he would play mediator in future negotiations . There were no high-level visits from or to Israel , and Mr. Modi made a point of meeting Palestinian PM Mahmoud Abbas at the UN . While New Delhi repeatedly called for an end to the civilian casualties , it continued to hedge its position at the UN on resolutions seeking to bring Israel to account for the killing of more than 45,000 in Gaza . With multilateral initiatives like IMEC ( India-Middle East Europe-Economic Corridor ) and I2U2 ( India , Israel , UAE and U.S. ) in trouble , India sought to engage West Asian countries bilaterally . In 2025 , a more difficult tightrope walk for South Block is expected between Iran and the Israel-U.S. combine . <h> What 's on the diplomatic calendar in 2025 ? <p> Mr. Jaishankar 's year-end visit to Washington and meetings with the Trump transition team indicate that ties with the U.S. will be a priority in 2025 . Mr. Trump is expected to visit India for the Quad Summit next year and Mr. Modi is likely to call on him in Washington before that . 2025 is expected to begin with a ministerial visit from Iran , followed by U.S. NSA Jake Sullivan for a last-moment iCET ( Initiative on Critical and Emerging Technology ) meet . <p> Indonesian President Prabowo Subianto will be the Republic Day guest . All eyes will be on Russian President Vladimir Putin 's visit to Delhi , his first since the war began , expected to be finalised early in 2025 . <h> Comments <p> Comments have to be in English , and in full sentences . They can not be abusive or personal . Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments . <p> We have migrated to a new commenting platform . If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in , you may continue to engage with our articles . If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments . Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle. 
@@119374847 <h> What will a second Trump presidency bring ? : Explained <h> How will the world , and India , negotiate Trump 2.0 ? Why is Trump threatening punitive tariffs on some countries ? Will he usher in changes in immigration policies ? Will his second term also likely witness America 's continuing withdrawal from global , multilateral and regional engagement ? <p> New dawn : A demonstrator protests at the San Ysidro crossing port on the U.S.-Mexico border , during International Migrants Day on December 18 . Photo Credit : AFP <p> The story so far : <p> When U.S. President-elect Donald Trump is administered the oath of office on January 20 , 2025 , and officially kicks off his second term at the White House , it will be the onset of four years that herald the deepening of domestic and foreign policy priorities enacted in his first term as President . On the cards are a reimposition of punitive tariffs against nations exporting to the U.S. , and India is likely to feature on that list ; a tough stance on immigration ; and changes in foreign policy , with America likely to see the continuing withdrawal from global , multilateral and regional engagement like in his first term . <h> What tariffs policies and tax cuts are likely to be tabled by the Trump administration ? <p> The first Trump administration started a trade war with China when it hit Beijing in 2018 with a punitive net tariff coverage of nearly 15% of all U.S. imports . In that case , his administration had already imposed several tariffs prior to 2018 as well , with the result that there were overlapping tariffs on a number of products ; for example , the 25% tariff that was imposed that year was over and above an antidumping tariff of approximately 66% that was already in place . Despite this somewhat chaotic approach to tariff imposition , one fact was clear -- China was the main target on the global stage : at 11.1% import coverage by U.S. special tariffs in 2018 , the rate slapped on Beijing dwarfed the rate for other exporters to the U.S. , including India , at 0.2% . In terms of products , the U.S. special tariffs preponderantly targeted imports of intermediate goods , and to a much lesser extent capital goods and final products . This is likely to have impacted the final price of finished goods based on intermediate goods sourced within the U.S. <p> During his 2024 campaign , Mr. Trump had affirmed that he would impose an across-the-board tariff of somewhere between 10%-20% on the entire $3 trillion worth of U.S. goods imports and a China-specific additional tariff of 60% . Assuming that the focus on intermediate goods continues in this context , this would imply a significant jump from his first term in terms of the value of goods impacted , most likely additional tens of billions of dollars ' worth on commodities such as steel and aluminium and at least $300 billion worth of Chinese goods . Retaliation from China , the E.U. , India , and other trading partners of the U.S. is sure to follow swiftly . <p> Regarding the high likelihood of a corporate tax cut , it could come in the form of renewing the lapsing cuts that Mr. Trump had introduced in 2017 , through the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act . This despite -- or perhaps precisely because of -- the fact that the policy did reduce taxes for most people , though it disproportionately benefitted the wealthy , according to the non-partisan Center on Budget and Policy Priorities . Their analysis at the time noted this policy resulted in households with incomes in the top 1% receiving an average tax cut of more than $60,000 if the cuts were maintained , compared to an average tax cut of less than $500 for households in the bottom 60% . Additionally , the Trump tax cut " was expensive and eroded the U.S. revenue base ... and failed to deliver promised economic benefits , " the CBPP noted . <p> Other economic policy actions that the Trump White House might advocate for include a carbon-border adjustment tax and quantitative restrictions on investments into U.S. assets such as infrastructure and essential medicine production capabilities , by China . <p> His administration would also likely seek the inputs of the Department of Government Efficiency -- led by the " tech bros " Elon Musk and Vivek Ramaswamy -- to reduce wastage and inefficiencies within the purview of the federal government , including by rationalising the actions of bureaucrats and cutting down on regulations across sectors . While the duo have hinted at potentially finding $2 trillion in savings through this initiative , including via mass layoffs and the shutting down of some agencies entirely , critics have challenged the size of the potential gains that could be made here . <h> What action is expected on immigration ? <p> Going by the Trump campaign 's policy promises in the lead-up to the 2024 election , there is a distinct possibility of a large-scale deportation of undocumented workers . However , there may be several obstacles that the White House might encounter as it carries out this possibly unprecedented action . Firstly , across several states , key urban hubs have vowed to be " sanctuary cities " and pass laws to limit local law enforcement cooperation with the federal government 's Immigration and Customs Enforcement . This is likely to make it politically complicated to carry out detention and deportation actions on a sizeable scale and in a short time frame . Secondly , the Trump campaign is yet to share details on the cost of such operations to the exchequer , but non-partisan analysts such as the American Immigration Council estimate that such an immigration proposal could potentially cost taxpayers considerably more than $300 billion . These estimates notwithstanding , there is little doubt that Mr. Trump will attempt to accelerate deportations to fulfil his campaign promises , especially as the first Trump administration deported close to 1.5 million people -- almost the same number as outgoing President Joe Biden and far less than former President Barack Obama , who turned away nearly 3 million people over eight years in office . <h> What impact could be expected regarding U.S. foreign policy ? <p> Mr. Trump has proclaimed publicly without explanation or details that he can and will end the Russia-Ukraine war and the Israel-Hamas conflict . On the former , he has said he would end the war even prior to Inauguration Day , even if he views the conflict through the lens of halting the " endless flow of American treasure to Ukraine " and demanding that NATO allies in Europe reimburse Washington for its war-related expenses if they expect military support from the U.S. against future Russian aggression . <p> Regarding Israel , the incoming President has followed in Mr. Biden 's footsteps and criticised the Israeli government 's aggression in Gaza , although Mr. Trump had tacitly expressed support for Israel by moving the U.S. embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem in his first term . <h> What bolsters Mr. Trump 's intentions ? <p> While the Trump 2.0 administration is yet to spell out critical details regarding its policy plans on the domestic and international fronts , one thing is certain : Mr. Trump enjoys an overwhelming mandate expressed through the result of the 2024 election . Further , he will be fundamentally operating from a position of institutional strength given the federal government trifecta , which implies that the White House will enjoy the luxury of greater cooperation in getting policies sanctioned by Congress , and possibly important cases ruled in his administration 's favour by a sympathetic U.S. Supreme Court . <h> Comments <p> Comments have to be in English , and in full sentences . They can not be abusive or personal . Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments . <p> We have migrated to a new commenting platform . If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in , you may continue to engage with our articles . If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments . Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle. 
@@119378147 <h> Israel detains the director of one of northern Gaza 's last functioning hospitals during a raid <p> Israel 's army detained the director of one of northern Gaza 's last functioning hospitals as overnight strikes elsewhere in the territory killed nine people , including children , Palestinian medical officials said Saturday . Israel 's military alleged that Hamas militants were using the facility and said over 240 people were detained . <p> Gaza 's Health Ministry said Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya , director of Kamal Adwan Hospital , was arrested Friday along with dozens of other staff and taken to an interrogation center . The ministry said Israeli troops stormed the hospital and forced many staff and patients outside and told them to strip in winter weather , according to the ministry . <p> Israel 's military on Saturday confirmed it detained the hospital director and called him a suspected Hamas operative while providing no evidence . It said it encircled the hospital and special forces entered and found weapons in the area . It said militants fired on its forces and they were " eliminated . " <p> On Friday , the military denied it had entered or set fire to the hospital complex but acknowledged it had ordered people outside . The military repeated claims that Hamas militants operate inside Kamal Adwan but provided no evidence . Hospital officials have denied that . <p> The hospital has been hit multiple times over the past three months by Israeli troops waging an offensive in largely isolated northern Gaza against Hamas fighters it says have regrouped . The health ministry said a strike on the hospital earlier this week killed five medical personnel . <p> MedGlobal , the humanitarian organization for which Abu Safiya worked , said Friday it was gravely concerned about him . It said the incident follows the October detention of five other staff , calling it an " alarming and egregious pattern of targeting medical personnel and spaces . " <p> Israel 's nearly 15-month-old campaign of bombardment and ground offensives has devastated Gaza 's health sector . The World Health Organization has said the raid on Kamal Adwan has put northern Gaza 's last major health facility " out of service " after growing restrictions on access , adding that " this horror must end and health care must be protected . " <p> The Health Ministry said conditions for Kamal Adwan patients who were relocated to the damaged Indonesian Hospital nearby -- also raided in the past -- were " extremely difficult . " <p> The Israeli military statement Saturday said 350 patients along with medical personnel had been evacuated from Kamal Adwan in recent weeks , and another 95 patients , caregivers , and medical personnel were evacuated to the Indonesian Hospital during the operation . It also said it had provided fuel and medical supplies to both hospitals . <p> The war has killed more than 45,400 Palestinians , over half of them women and children , and wounded more than 108,000 others , according to the Health Ministry . Its count does not distinguish between civilians and combatants . <p> Since October , Israel 's offensive has virtually sealed off the northern Gaza areas of Jabaliya , Beit Hanoun and Beit Lahiya and leveled large parts of them . Tens of thousands of Palestinians were forced out but thousands are believed to remain in the area where Kamal Adwan and two other hospitals are located . <p> Israel has vowed to destroy Hamas after the militants ' Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack on southern Israel in which they killed around 1,200 people and abducted some 250 others . Some 100 Israelis remain captive in Gaza , and around a third are believed to be dead . <p> Israel continued attacks across Gaza on Saturday . An overnight strike killed at least nine people in Maghazi , including women and children , according to staff at Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital where they were taken and an Associated Press reporter who saw the bodies . <p> Men cried as the bodies , wrapped in bloodied white plastic , lay on the floor of the morgue . <p> The Health Ministry said Saturday that 48 people had been killed in the past 24 hours by Israeli fire . 
@@119378746 <h> Israel arrests hospital director and other staff in raid on last functioning facility in northern Gaza , health officials say <p> Hussam Abu Safiya , director of Kamal Adwan hospital , shows the damage inside the hospital in Beit Lahiya , in the northern Gaza Strip , on December 18 . <p> Reuters/File <p> CNN -- <p> Israel arrested a hospital director in a raid that closed the last major functioning health facility in northern Gaza , with its forces also accused of ordering patients to strip in the streets . <p> Kamal Adwan Hospital is " now empty " after the remaining patients -- some of them critically ill -- along with caregivers and health workers were transferred to the Indonesian Hospital in Beit Lahiya , the World Health Organization said . <p> The facility has come under frequent Israeli fire in recent months and its closure exacerbates a dire humanitarian situation in northern Gaza . <p> The whereabouts of Kamal Adwan 's director , Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya , and other staff are unclear , friends and colleagues say . <p> " We do not know the fate of Dr. Hussam . He was actually threatened by the army as soon as they arrived at the hospital , " a nurse from Kamal Adwan Hospital , Rawiya Al Batsh , told CNN . <p> The Israeli military acknowledged Saturday it had detained Dr. Abu Safiya , saying he was " suspected of being a Hamas terrorist operative . " <p> The Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) said it raided the area of the hospital and detained at least 240 " Hamas and Islamic Jihad terrorists , " alleging the facility was being used as a " Hamas terror stronghold . " <p> " Individuals are being questioned . Those found not to be involved in terrorist activities are released , " the IDF said . <p> Hamas , in a statement Saturday , called on " the United Nations and all relevant international institutions to urgently intervene . " <p> " We demand the sending of international observers to these facilities to ascertain the truth of what is happening and to refute the lies and claims of the occupation regarding their use for military purposes , " the statement read . <p> Israeli forces launched a renewed aerial and ground incursion in several parts of northern Gaza in early October this year , saying they were targeting a resurgent Hamas presence there . The onslaught has razed streets to carpets of debris , killed entire families , and severely depleted food , water and medical stocks . <h> ' No limit to the beating ' <p> On Friday , Dr. Safiya said in a post on social media that Israeli forces were besieging the facility , " and issuing orders for its evacuation . " Multiple nurses have said staff and patients were then ordered to leave the hospital and gather outside . <p> Once outside , staff and patients were separated by gender and both men and women were told to remove their clothes , two nurses told CNN . " Those who refused to remove their clothing were beaten , " Shorouq Saleh Al-Rantisi , a nurse working in the laboratory , said on Friday . <p> After hours of being held , they were forced to move to the nearby Indonesian Hospital , the staff said , a facility the WHO has described as " destroyed and nonfunctional . " <p> Some patients said they asked to be transferred to the Indonesian Hospital , but were not allowed . <p> " They told us to sit down . After gathering everyone , they made us strip down to our underwear in the cold , " Abdulrahman Rayan told CNN , adding that a significant number of people were detained and injured patients were beaten . <p> " There was no limit to the beating . They struck people on the head with hoses . They dragged three people at a time , including an injured person with a cast , and beat them on their heads , " added Rayan . " They spared no one -- not the injured , not the elderly , not the children . " <p> Palestinian patients are transferred to al-Ahli Baptist Hospital after being evacuated from Kamal Adwan Hospital on December 28 . <p> Dawoud Abo Alkas/Anadolu/Getty Images <p> Other patients were allegedly made to walk hours on foot to a school in northern Gaza , alongside medical staff . " They made us strip down to our underwear . It was a tough situation , and they assaulted the wounded and women , " Abu Mahmoud Al-Attawi , an injured patient , told CNN on Friday . <p> The IDF said it had helped evacuate staff and patients ahead of the operation , later adding that " an additional 95 patients , caregivers and medical personnel " were taken to the Indonesian Hospital " to maintain and operate essential systems . " <p> It is often necessary for terror suspects to take off their clothes so that their clothes can be searched and to ensure that they are not concealing explosive vests or other weaponry . According to IDF guidelines , as soon as possible after the search , their clothing is returned to them or alternative clothing is provided . " <p> Asked by CNN about the allegations of strip searches and beatings of patients , as well as if they had evidence to the claims against Dr. Abu Safiya , the IDF responded the claims , saying , " The detention of suspects involved in terrorism , their arrest , and the search conducted on their bodies were carried out in accordance with international law . <p> Video sent by nurse Rawiya Al Batsh from the Indonesian Hospital , seen by CNN , showed upturned furniture and tattered blankets strewn along the dusty corridors . The buzz of Israeli drones can be heard overhead . <p> CNN has reached to the Israeli military asking for comment on allegations that men and women were forced to strip . <p> Several staff also reported a large fire breaking out . Al Batsh told CNN that the blaze broke out in the hospital after Israeli strikes on the building , with staff forced to use water from a kidney dialysis machine to fight the flames . <p> " Unfortunately , this water was mixed with chlorine and other substances , resulting in burns on their hands and faces , " Al Batsh said , adding one patient died in the fire . <p> The Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) told CNN that " there was a small fire in an empty building inside the hospital that is under control , " adding that it is " unaware " of allegations that the fire was caused by IDF gunfire . It added that its troops " are operating in the area of the hospital and not inside of it . " <p> An audio message from staff at Kamal Adwan said that surgical departments , laboratory , maintenance , and emergency units have been completely burned . <p> The WHO has previously said that Israeli authorities have repeatedly denied humanitarian access to Kamal Adwan Hospital and just this week said that a request to deploy international emergency medical teams was denied by Israeli authorities , " despite the need for immediate surgical interventions for injured patients . " <p> Some patients were taken to Al Shifa Hospital in Gaza City . CNN footage shows patients who had arrived from Kamal Adwan Hospital , including women , children and those with special needs . <p> In the video , a man with special needs is trying to explain what happened to him , making signs of gunfire and gestures indicating that he has been beaten on his arms and face . He arrived alone and his bare feet are covered in dust . <p> The patient 's name is Khaled Hazzaa , according to another man stood nearby who says he is Hazzaa 's nephew . The man says they had not seen each other for 82 days until Al Shifa Hospital called him . Hazzaa was being treated at Kamal Adwan Hospital , the man says . <p> Another woman CNN spoke to at Al Shifa Hospital said she arrived at Kamal Adwan hospital for treatment two days ago after her house was hit in an Israeli strike and her son was killed . During the raid on Friday , Fatmeh Al Najjar also said that men and women were interrogated and then soldiers " took us in military vehicles and left us at Abu Sharekh roundabout . From there , they told us to walk south . " <p> Khader Al Za'anoun of Wafa , the official Palestinian news agency , contributed to this report . This story has been updated 
@@119381657 <p> Rescued hostage Qaid Farhan Alkadi told the IDF that he heard a woman speaking Hebrew in nearby tunnels , but his testimony was ignored , according to a Saturday report by N12 . <p> On August 27 , the IDF successfully rescued Qaid Farhan Alkadi from a tunnel in Tel Sultan , Gaza . During his debriefing , Alkadi mentioned hearing a woman speaking Hebrew weeks prior to his rescue , the report said . <p> Despite repeating this account twice , the IDF initially dismissed his claims , questioning their reliability . A few days later , the bodies of six hostages were discovered in a tunnel close to the area of Alkadi 's rescue . <p> Alkadi distinctly recalled hearing a female voice saying , " Good morning . " Given that Hamas tunnels are not typically used to detain Muslim women , this statement suggested the possibility of other hostages being nearby . Alkadi reiterated his account during an interrogation by the Shin Bet ( Israel Security Agency ) , which occurred two days before the six hostages were killed . <p> Security officials believe the killings were motivated by fear of advancing IDF forces . The victims ' remains were later found about a kilometer from where Alkadi had been rescued during an operation in Rafah , and the bodies were subsequently returned to Israel through the combined efforts of the IDF and Shin Bet . <h> Problems verifying the testimony <p> From the outset , skepticism surrounded Alkadi 's testimony . The IDF speculated that he might have been moved to a different tunnel or that he had misheard the voice . However , emerging evidence suggests that Alkadi may have been in close proximity to the six hostages at the time of their deaths . <p> Earlier this week , IDF findings were shared with the families of the victims and the Chief of Staff . The investigation concluded that the six were killed in a Rafah tunnel more than a day before IDF forces reached the location . During the operation , Nahal Brigade soldiers neutralized two Hamas operatives believed to be involved in the murders . <p> The report also said that while interrogating Alkadi in Israel , his testimony about hearing Hebrew speakers in the tunnel was not thoroughly investigated . This decision , rooted in doubts over the account 's credibility , ultimately delayed further action . Military officials later suspended operations in the area to reassess the situation . <p> According to N12 , Military sources have defended the decision-making process , noting the challenges in verifying testimony under duress and the complexities of navigating Hamas 's extensive tunnel networks . 
@@119381659 <h> IDF conducted precise activities inside the hospital , confiscating weapons in the area , including grenades , guns , munitions , and military equipment . <p> Shayet 13 special forces operate in the Kamal Adwan Hospital in the Gaza Strip , December 28 , 2024 . ( IDF SPOKESPERSON 'S UNIT ) <p> The IDF , in coordination with the Shin Bet ( Israel Security Agency ) , arrested over 240 terrorists in a targeted operation against Hamas terror infrastructure embedded within the Kamal Adwan Hospital in Jabaliya , northern Gaza , the military announced on Friday . <p> The operation followed intelligence indicating that the hospital was being exploited as a command center by terrorists . <p> Ahead of the operation , the IDF facilitated the evacuation of 350 patients , caregivers , and medical personnel from the hospital in recent weeks , working closely with COGAT . During this period , tens of thousands of liters of fuel , food , and medical supplies were delivered to ensure the facility 's essential functioning , the IDF said . <p> On the day of the operation , an additional 95 patients and staff members were relocated to the Indonesian Hospital with the assistance of local health authorities . The IDF also provided 5,000 liters of fuel , two generators , and medical equipment to maintain critical systems at the Indonesian Hospital . Hundreds of civilians were evacuated through defined safety routes . Generators provided by the IDF with the assistance of COGAT used for providing medical services for patients transferred from the Kamal Adwan Hospital , December 28 , 2024. ( credit : IDF SPOKESPERSON 'S UNIT ) <p> The IDF 's 401st Brigade encircled the hospital , apprehended terrorists in the vicinity , and eliminated those who resisted arrest and threatened the troops . <p> Within the hospital , Shayetet 13 special forces discovered and confiscated an arsenal of weapons , including grenades , firearms , and other military equipment . During the operation , terrorists attempted to launch anti-tank missiles and RPG attacks but were eliminated by the soldiers . The Israeli Air Force also eliminated terrorists attempting to flee the area . Hamas weapons and explosives discovered in the Kamal Adwan Hospital in the Gaza Strip , December 28 , 2024. ( credit : IDF SPOKESPERSON 'S UNIT ) <p> No IDF casualties were reported during the mission . <h> Hundreds of terror suspects arrested <p> In total , the IDF apprehended over 240 individuals suspected of involvement in terrorist activities , some of whom tried to disguise themselves as patients or escape using ambulances . Among those detained was the hospital 's director , suspected of being a Hamas operative , along with other key Hamas and Islamic Jihad figures , including 15 individuals linked to the October 7 massacre . <p> Testimonies collected by Unit 504 and the ISA revealed that many detainees participated in terrorist operations in the area . <p> The IDF reiterated its commitment to adhering to international law regarding medical facilities , even when such facilities are exploited by Hamas for military purposes . <p> The Hamas-run Gaza Health Ministry announced just a few hours earlier that the hospital 's director , Hussam Abu Safiya , was arrested by the IDF during the raid , which it claims took place on Friday . <p> The raid on the hospital , one of three medical facilities on the northern edge of Gaza , put the last major health facility in north Gaza out of service , the World Health Organisation ( WHO ) said in a post on X on Friday , <p> Hamas claims that the Indonesian Hospital , where the IDF transferred fuel , as well as medical personnel and supplies , is n't in service . 
@@119385959 <h> The top 10 religion stories of 2024 : What 's old is news again <p> The year 's news in religion was dominated by a war already in progress on Jan. 1 between Hamas and Israel . <p> Though not at root a religious war , as the months went by the conflict supercharged American-Jewish divisions over Israel , fractured some Jewish-Muslim alliances and made antisemitism on campus a rallying cry for the right . It also exposed , in the view of many who sympathized with the Palestinians , new depths of Islamophobia . <p> The top religion stories also reprised familiar themes of the 2016-2020 Trump administration as Donald Trump 's third presidential campaign returned him to the White House . We also saw the end of a three-year Vatican synod and the opening of a Hindu temple three decades in the making . <p> But if several of this year 's biggest stories were holdovers from previous years , there were , as ever , surprises nobody could have predicted . Here are the developments in faith , politics and culture that defined 2024 for us at Religion News Service : <h> 1 . Israel-Hamas war 's spiritual reckoning . <p> As Palestinian casualties in the war that began with Hamas ' murderous Oct. 7 , 2023 , raid on southern Israel passed 48,000 in Gaza , the fighting caused spiritual reckoning far from the combat . Many American Jews felt deeply that critiques of Israel 's actions on campus amounted to antisemitism . The war also gave voice to growing ranks of anti-Zionists on the left . By year 's end , campus protesters , some of whom had sought solace in Jewish sabbath and Christian Communion celebrations , had largely dispersed , while in Israel and the occupied territories , Jewish parents mourned children who died as hostages in Gaza . Muslims , Christians and some Jews lamented that the world remained indifferent to the Palestinian plight . <h> 2 . Trump returns . <p> Trump 's reelection braided so many narratives of politics and religion together it 's difficult to know where the strands begin or end . Historically Catholic and Democratic Latino voters showed their increasing evangelical Christian and Republican leanings at the ballot box ; white evangelicals , despite only muted coordination with Trump compared to 2016 , and looking past the GOP 's more moderate stance on abortion , overwhelmingly supported Trump in November ; Muslims , alienated by President Joe Biden 's backing of Israel in the Gaza war , went for Trump in larger numbers or voted for third-party candidates . <h> 3 . The Synod on Synodality stresses dialogue over doctrinal change . <p> Pope Francis ' 2021 call for Catholics around the world to gather to register their concerns and dreams for a future church -- a process called synodality -- raised hopes of a completion of Vatican II , in which women 's roles would be expanded , possibly even to ordination as deacons . By its end in October 2024 , controversial topics raised in the listening sessions had been relegated to special committees . The final report of the synod called for lay people to take a more active role in their dioceses . No reform suggested by the synod delegates required changes to doctrine or canon law . <p> The third-largest Hindu place of worship in the world opened in January in Ayodhya , in northern India , said to be the deity 's birthplace . The spectacular monument has inspired Hindus the world over , but , built on the site of a 16th-century mosque torn down by a Hindu mob in 1992 , it represents for many members of India 's minority Muslim faith a consummation of Prime Minister Narendra Modi 's Hindu nationalist program . In New York , a parade float carrying a model of the temple caused controversy in the run-up to August 's India Day parade . <h> 5 . United Methodist Church overturns its ban on openly LGBTQ+ clergy and same-sex marriage . <p> After years of wrangling over LGBTQ+ inclusion , the United Methodist Church , the second largest denomination in the U.S. , concluded its General Conference in June by repealing a 52-year-old declaration that the practice of homosexuality is " incompatible with Christian teaching " and canceling church laws banning ordination of gay people and marriage for same-sex couples . At the same time , the body voted to restructure the worldwide denomination to create new regions and tailor their own local customs and traditions and church rules . The discord within the church is not over , however , as overseas United Methodists continue to sort themselves -- with sometimes violent results . <h> 6 . States require teaching about Christianity in classrooms . <p> Ryan Walters , elected Oklahoma 's superintendent of schools in 2022 after running on a platform of fighting " woke ideology " in the state 's public school system , is facing lawsuits after requiring the Bible to be taught in schools " as an appropriate study of history , civilization , ethics , comparative religion . " He bought 500 copies of a Christian nationalist Bible promoted by President-elect Donald Trump . Walters further required schools to show a video in which he announced his new Department of Religious Freedom and Patriotism and in December mandated additional mentions of Christianity in the state 's social studies standards . <p> In Louisiana , a law passed in June required all schools receiving public funding to post a version of the Ten Commandments in their classrooms . In November , after a U.S. district court judge blocked execution of the law , Louisiana 's attorney general said the state would appeal . <h> 7 . A Catholic diocesan hermit approved by a Kentucky bishop comes out as transgender . <p> Brother Christian Matson , believed to be the first openly transgender person in his position in the Catholic Church , announced his status in May , offering his story as indicative of the often difficult path for trans Catholics . Matson , who had converted to Catholicism in 2010 , had long sought a way to fulfill a vocation in the church , and Bishop John Stowe of Lexington , noting that Matson was not seeking ordination , called the hermit 's spiritual journey " consistent with the calling of that particular vocation . " <p> Although Matson lives quietly in a small Appalachian town , his revelation struck a chord at a time when transgender Catholics have both been welcomed by Pope Francis and felt ostracized by the pope 's stated views on gender theory . <h> 8 . Declining churches look to repurpose their real estate . <p> As church attendance declines , thousands of barely surviving houses of worship are facing the question of what to do with their real estate and how to continue to serve their communities in new ways . Church closures have reached a point that congregants and pastors are seeking professional help , attending gatherings such as September 's Future of Church Property conference , organized by Princeton Theological Seminary , where real estate lawyers and nonprofit developers counsel attendees on strategies to meet local needs or tap new revenue . Other churches have turned to groups such as RootedGood , a nonprofit that works with churches on how to repurpose their spaces . <h> 9 . After devastating fire , Notre Dame reopens . <p> Defying those who said that Paris ' historic cathedral should reopen as a cultural center , not a church , Notre Dame opened its doors in December with a festive ceremony attended by world leaders , only barely missing what seemed like an impossible five-year timeline of rebuilding . A phoenix with flaming feathers was installed atop the spire in December , marking the cathedral 's rise from the ashes . <h> 10 . Archbishop of Canterbury resigns over handling of abuse . <p> His reputation tarnished by an investigation into the Church of England 's response to allegations of abuse by a prominent lay member , Justin Welby announced in November that he would step down as archbishop of Canterbury , traditionally " first among equals " of all the primates in the global Anglican Communion . He followed his resignation with a farewell speech in the House of Lords that only worsened his standing with the public . The scandal gave momentum to those calling for the United Kingdom 's bishops to no longer hold seats in the Lords , and calls for the church to give up some of its influence in the Communion . 
@@119404153 <p> Citing dissatisfaction over the Left 's stance on war , immigration , gender ideology , and more , several prominent Democrats made waves for defying their party about President-elect Donald Trump during a political cycle like none other . <p> Here 's a rundown of 11 of them . <h> The mayors <p> The progressive Muslim mayor of Hamtramck , Michigan , announced in September he was endorsing Trump , citing a belief the former president could end the war in Gaza . A Yemeni immigrant , Mayor Amer Ghalib was a member of the pro-Palestinian Uncommitted movement and was disgruntled that Vice President Kamala Harris never differentiated herself from President Joe Biden 's Middle Eastern policy . Ghalib 's move signaled an alarm sign that Arab support for Harris was on the decline in Michigan , which ultimately proved to be true . <p> New York City Mayor Eric Adams also made waves for his friendly overtures to the GOP this year after often clashing with the president-elect during his first term in the White House . The Democratic New Yorker has lambasted the Biden administration over its border policies and signaled in November readiness to work with Trump on targeting illegal immigration . <p> The bromance reached its peak in December after Adams indicated Trump was a " great patriot , " and the president-elect left the door to pardoning the mayor after he was criminally indicted in September . Adams has also compared the New York indictment leveled at Trump to the one brought against himself , suggesting that both were politically weaponized by Biden 's Justice Department . <p> Dallas Mayor Eric Johnson did n't just make overtures to Republicans . As the leader of one of the country 's largest cities , Johnson announced in Sept. 2023 that he was leaving the Democratic Party , citing disillusionment about its ' stance on crime , urban policies , and economic opportunity . He went on to formally endorse Trump at the Republican National Convention in July . <h> The bros <p> Elon Musk was , at one time , a devout Democrat who waited in line for hours to shake former President Barack Obama 's hand . However , the SpaceX CEO has shifted to the Right in recent years , particularly expressing anger with progressive ideology after one of his children underwent a transgender operation . <p> But it was n't until the first assassination attempt against Trump in July that Musk took the final plunge , saying he was captured by the bravery the president-elect showed in the face of fire . As images of a bloodied Trump pumping his fist in the air took over the internet , Musk publicly endorsed Trump , later saying he wanted " someone who is strong and courageous to represent the country . " <p> The tech titan subsequently became one of the most important players in Trumpworld as one of the former president 's biggest campaign surrogates in Pennsylvania , which is considered essential to win in order to secure the White House . Now he 's co-leading Trump 's new Department of Government Efficiency , and recently even flexed his power to help topple a critical government spending bill . <p> Rogan , who has said he always voted Democrat in 2020 , had Trump on his popular podcast , The Joe Rogan Experience , just weeks before the election . Rogan 's show holds a massive audience and ranks likely as one of the most influential podcasts in the United States . He 's not a political pundit either , making his platform relatable to a swath of voters . <p> Trump 's appearance on the show became one of the biggest media hits of the year , outperforming cable television networks ' prime-time ratings , and drawing more viewers even than the president-elect debate with Harris . The podcast with Trump proved to be a turning point with Rogan too , as he endorsed the president-elect on election eve , just days after the two men sat down . <h> The senators <p> Sens . John Fetterman ( D-PA ) , Bernie Sanders ( I-VT ) , and Joe Manchin ( I-WV ) have all had harsh words for Trump in recent years . Fetterman and Sanders even backed Harris for the presidency this election cycle . <p> However , each of them has shown strong streaks of contrarianism in delineating from establishment Democrats ' distaste for Trumpworld . <p> During the 2024 campaign season , Fetterman was an often lonely voice warning colleagues not to underestimate support for Trump in his home state . He has frequently pushed Democrats to engage with Trump supporters and the working class , criticizing the Harris campaign for turning down an appearance on the Joe Rogan Experience , a move he said showed disdain for male voters . <p> In the days since the Nov. 5 election , the Pennsylvania senator has also emerged as a key supporter of several of Trump 's Cabinet picks and even joined the president-elect 's social media platform , Truth Social . In his first post on the platform , Fetterman denounced the historic New York hush money indictment against Trump and said he should be pardoned . <p> Sanders , who caucuses with Democrats , similarly backed one of Trump 's more high-profile Cabinet nominations to head the Department of Health and Human Services , Robert F. Kennedy Jr . With Kennedy facing a potentially tough Senate confirmation vote , Sanders ' support in the upper chamber could be crucial to helping the Trump team get his name through . <p> In addition , the progressive Vermont senator has expressed support for Musk as he leads the incoming Trump administration 's new Department of Government Efficiency , citing its goal of reducing waste in the Pentagon 's budget . Perhaps most notably , Sanders gained attention for his comments after Harris lost the election that blamed the defeat on Democratic elites he said had " abandoned working-class people . " <p> Meanwhile , Manchin sent ripples through Washington when he left the Democratic Party in May , after clashing with the Biden administration over energy policy for several years . Earlier this month the senator made headlines for suggesting Biden should pardon Trump of all the crimes he has been accused of . He also gave the incoming administration a key opening on the National Labor Relations Board when he blocked the nomination of Chairwoman Lauren McFerran . <h> The Cabinet picks <p> Tulsi Gabbard and Robert F. Kennedy Jr . are both ex-Democrats turned Trump supporters tapped to serve in the president-elect 's Cabinet . Gabbard will likely serve in the incoming administration as the Director of National Intelligence . If confirmed by the Senate , Kennedy will lead the Department of Health and Human Services . <p> Gabbard , an Army veteran , initially gained prominence as a Democratic congresswoman . Citing discontent with " elites " in the party and the Democratic establishment 's approach to free speech , and war , among other issues , Gabbard became a critical surrogate for Trump on the campaign trail . Gabbard made the final leap standing by Trump 's side during a late October rally , announcing she was joining the Republican Party by citing " the leadership that President Trump has brought to transform the Republican Party and bring it back to the party of the people and the party of peace . " <p> Kennedy is similarly a lifelong Democrat who exited the party of his youth to become an independent last fall . Hailing from a powerful Democratic political dynasty , the Kennedy scion challenged both Trump and Biden for the presidency , only to drop out over the summer . <p> At the time , he stunned Democrats once again by endorsing Trump , his onetime rival , for the presidency , saying Trump had promised to target the chronic disease epidemic . The president-elect has so far kept his promise , keeping Kennedy close by his side on the campaign trail , and nominating the former Democrat to a top cabinet health position following his victory . <p> Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump is greeted by Robert F. Kennedy Jr . on stage during a campaign event at Desert Diamond Arena in Glendale , Arizona , on Aug. 23 , 2024 . ( Photo by Tom Brenner for The Washington Post via Getty Images ) <h> The governor <p> Gov . Jared Polis ( D-CO ) was one of the Democratic governors who prominently ganged up on Trump after he won a second term in November . He announced he was co-chairing the ? ? Governors Safeguarding Democracy initiative to address " emerging threats " just days after Trump 's victory . <p> That made it all the more shocking when the Colorado governor threw his weight behind Kennedy , one of Trump 's more controversial Cabinet nominees . <p> Although Democrats in particular have targeted Kennedy over the past year for his positions on vaccines , Polis broke with his colleagues to energetically pitch for the HHS nominee . <p> " He helped us defeat vaccine mandates in Colorado in 2019 and will help make America healthy again by shaking up HHS and FDA . I hope he leans into personal choice on vaccines rather than bans ( which I think are terrible , just like mandates ) but what I 'm most optimistic about is taking on big pharma and the corporate ag oligopoly to improve our health , " Polis wrote . 
@@119409047 <p> The new Congress will be sworn in this week . What position does Mike Johnson , the current speaker of the House , find himself in seeking reelection to that position ? <p> SCOTT MACFARLANE : It 's a tenuous position . It has the prospect and promise of having high drama Friday , when they begin the new Congress January 3 by choosing the new speaker . <p> One of the most underappreciated and underreported issues of the 2024 election was this incredibly narrow margin Republicans preserved in the U.S. House , even more narrow than the one that gridlocked them over the past two years . <p> And , of course , the first order of business is choosing a speaker . Republicans have just one or two votes to spare on anything . That has the possibility of paralyzing things . And we saw two years ago the speaker vote was like a -- it 's like Gilligan 's Island . It was supposed to be a three- hour vote and ended up being a multi-arc drama with many divergent characters , not including Thurston Howell . <p> ( LAUGHTER ) <p> SCOTT MACFARLANE : But here 's the thing . It 's just the top layer of this very treacherous cake for them is picking a speaker , because , what does this next speaker have to concede to win that post ? <p> We saw over the last two years the prior speaker had to concede positions on the pivotal Rules Committee to some contrarian voices in the Rules Committees , where bills went to die , instead of to get set up for a vote . And that 's why so many Democratic votes were needed for so many pivotal things , because the Rules Committee was jammed up by contrarians . <p> That could happen again . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Robert Costa , I want to turn to you , because , if he were so inclined , president-elect Trump could clarify his preference here . And that would send an important signal to those Republicans in the House majority to be still on the fence about this , yet he remains conspicuously silent . <p> ROBERT COSTA : That decision is reflective of the dynamic right now down at Mar-a-Lago , the president 's retreat in Florida . <p> There is high drama , as Scott reports , on Capitol Hill . But , in Trump 's inner circle , it 's almost like the low-key second season of a TV show . That 's how it 's been described to me by allies of president-elect Trump . He 's being guided by Susie Wiles , his incoming chief of staff . <p> And she 's created , I 'm told , this atmosphere of calm when it comes to some of the nominees , the process , laying out the agenda for next year , top of the agenda , tax cuts , trying to expand those Trump tax cuts from 2017 , of course , mass deportations also part of Trump 's plan , a border bill as well . <p> And you do have controversial nominees in Kash Patel for the FBI , Robert F. Kennedy Jr . for Health and Human Services , among others . But , at its core , you have a president-elect who 's now comfortable with power , comfortable with the people around him . <p> This is so different , Major , than what we saw in 2016 , when we were covering that transition period . It had this theatrical element , Trump welcoming people to Bedminster for these showy appearances and interviews . <p> Now we rarely see the president-elect . He 's firing off missives at times on TRUTH Social , his platform , but he 's often behind the scenes getting ready for 2025 , because he 's been here before . He knows what he wants to do . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Ed O'Keefe , President Biden remains president of the United States , though some Americans might have to be reminded of that fact . <p> ED O'KEEFE : Yes . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : What is ahead for the president in the waning days of his presidency in terms of travel and possible pardons ? <p> ED O'KEEFE : Well , he is taking one final foreign trip , and it was one that we -- those of us who followed him a long time anticipated might happen . And that is a trip to the Vatican to see the pope and then to see the Italian leadership as well . <p> They have been in far closer contact than I think many people appreciate , because the pope , like the president , shares a lot of the concerns about the state of the world , about what 's going on in Ukraine and Gaza . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Conflict , climate change . <p> ( CROSSTALK ) <p> ED O'KEEFE : Absolutely , yes , and state of democracy and just general concern for social justice , which is ... <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Refugee flows , exactly . <p> ED O'KEEFE : Yes , exactly . <p> And so that will be a critical political meeting , but also a real personal capstone for the second Catholic president . <p> And it speaks as well to one of the things he 's been focused on over the last several weeks and will continue to be . We 're still waiting to hear more about , for example , pardons and clemency . Will there be more of those ? And will they be for the everyman ? Or will they be for notable political figures like , for example , Jesse Jackson Jr. , the former congressman from Illinois , or others who 've ended up in the legal system and maybe are well- known and are now appealing for some kind of leniency or forgiveness ? <p> And so those 37 death row clemencies that we saw before Christmas , a good example of what 's to come and what he 's eager to do , and also a good example of what little he can do , because , of course , Congress has no interest in working with him . They ca n't even really sort out what to do with themselves , but -- so he 's using the executive privileges that he has in these waning weeks . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Jan , as you know better than anyone at this table , this last year was a clash of law and politics , unlike anything we have seen in our modern American history . <p> The judicial system in our country , according to Gallup , 35 percent confidence , 20 percent below our peer countries , other free market democracies . How much of that is a reflection of this clash , the Supreme Court , or just a sense that our judicial system has become , in the words of someone we have all come to know , two-tiered ? <p> JAN CRAWFORD : You know , that 's a hard question to answer , because I think you have got a ... <p> MAJOR GARRETT : We always give you the easiest ones , Jan . <p> ( LAUGHTER ) <p> JAN CRAWFORD : But I 'm going to try , Major , because I think it goes -- you have got to look past just this past year and go further back . <p> I think it really started and took off in the wake of the Dobbs decision , the court 's ruling that overturned Roe v. Wade . The outrage over that decision was so extreme that you saw , I think , a quite calculated effort to undermine legitimacy of the Supreme Court by Democrats , Senate Democrats , for example , hearings , stories about scandals , some of which were pretty overblown , to say the least . <p> So , that has an impact on public opinion . The public starts to believe that this court is corrupt , that this is -- it 's on the take , none of which is true . I mean , this is still a court . You may disagree with their decisions . It 's a very conservative court . It is not a corrupt court . <p> These are nine justices who have very different views on how to interpret the Constitution who are kind of in this Titanic struggle over law , not politics . <p> Even the immunity decision , I mean , that decision was so misreported to say that the court was going to save Trump from a criminal trial . No , it was n't . That was never the decision . In fact , that decision is going to help protect Joe Biden from any future prosecution by Donald Trump if he wanted to do that . <p> So , when we look at public opinion polls , sure , the court 's taken a hit , but that 's true over the years . The court often takes a hit . So do other institutions . And the court 's opinion -- court 's public opinion remains much higher than our other institutions , including the White House , Congress , and by far the news media . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Congress at 17 percent , according to Gallup . <p> Caitlin , Jan mentioned the Dobbs decision . One of the things that roiled through the political calendar year of 2024 was how important , how impactful would that decision be on turnout and the ultimate outcome of the election ? <p> But , as you traveled the country , you kept telling us , yes , it 's an important issue , but there are other things on the minds of women voters in this country . <p> CAITLIN HUEY-BURNS : Yes , we always say that voters have the capacity to think about a lot of different things at once . <p> And we saw , in the wake of that decision in the midterms , that was top of mind for people . It was the first way to kind of exercise their views across the country on this issue . But , this time around , voters had different ways to express their feelings about the Dobbs decision . <p> Many of them had ballot measures in their states , a couple of those states being battleground states , that they could vote for codifying abortion rights into their state law and also vote for Donald Trump , because they believed in his views on the economy , on immigration , or at least that he could solve some of their concerns about them . <p> And as I spoke to women across the country , as we all spent the whole year talking to voters and really listening to voters , a lot of women talked to me about how concerned they were about safety , about the economy , a lot of them responsible for their family 's budgets , paying the bills , going to the grocery store , these kinds of fundamental things . <p> And , also , it was kind of a reminder that we have been treating women as kind of a monolithic group in the wake of Dobbs . And this election showed that it 's not as such , that they do care a lot about safety , the economy . Those were overarching issues , but they also do care about women 's rights , abortion rights , but they just had other avenues to express that . <p> And that 's really what helped . And Donald Trump also modified his positions , at least to satisfy some of those voters , at least that I spoke to . <p> I wonder what your perspective is on this online feud that 's gone on , on for the last three or four days between parts of the MAGA universe over H- 1B visas , which are essentially visas set aside for high-skilled laborers , Elon Musk , Vivek Ramaswamy , and nominally president-elect Trump on the side of that , hard right nativist parts of the MAGA movement using expletives on social media typically reserved for their political foes , not for those in the MAGA tent , assailing one another . <p> What do you make of all of that ? <p> ROBERT COSTA : The coalition that lifted Donald Trump back to power included Silicon Valley executives . Elon Musk , Trump inner circle members say , deserves a lot of credit for pouring a lot of money in the final months into the campaign . <p> But at the end of the day , this was a campaign where so many voters at rally after rally we covered were holding up signs that said " Mass Deportations Now . " The message was obvious , it was in your face . <p> And for -- the idea that president-elect Trump is going to back away from his immigration position because of some whisper in his ear from a Silicon Valley billionaire , it 's just not happening , based on my reporting . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : And , Scott , very quickly , do you think that -- we have got about 30 seconds before we need to go to break . How much do you think that will be a part of the early congressional conversation ? <p> SCOTT MACFARLANE : I think this battle over the debt limit which Elon Musk weighed in on is going to be the first throw-down of 2025 and impact the first year of Trump 's term , because they 're going to need Democratic votes to raise the debt ceiling . <p> That wo n't satisfy the Elon Musks of the world . I 'm not sure how Trump circumvents Democratic concessions for the debt ceiling . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Welcome back to Face the Nation and our correspondents roundtable . <p> Predictions . <p> Caitlin Huey-Burns . <p> CAITLIN HUEY-BURNS : I think the biggest story to watch this coming year is how the president-elect when he becomes president handles immigration . <p> We talked a lot about how the economy was the overarching theme of this election . Immigration is what Trump made his not only closing -- closing argument on , but his entire campaign was really rooted in immigration . <p> So what this looks like , we saw in our polling majority support for mass deportations . What does that actually look like ? And how do they handle that once we see what that looks like on television , how they have people explaining their policy , and what those stories look like because of that , and whether the base is satisfied and whether the general public gets what they voted for on that . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Jan , 2025 prediction . <p> JAN CRAWFORD : I will go back to the court . <p> I think that Donald Trump will probably get his fourth nomination to the Supreme Court either this year or maybe next year , when ... <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Because someone retires . <p> Who ? <p> JAN CRAWFORD : Justice Sam Alito . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Justice Sam Alito . <p> JAN CRAWFORD : He was nominated , took the bench in 2006 , after nearly two decades on the court . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Robert Costa . <p> ROBERT COSTA : Most importantly , Marcus Freeman and the Fighting Irish will win the Sugar Bowl on January 1 . <p> ( LAUGHTER ) <p> JAN CRAWFORD : Now , this is normally my prediction with Alabama . <p> ROBERT COSTA : I 'm stepping into your territory . But ... <p> JAN CRAWFORD : I 'm happy to give it to you . <p> ROBERT COSTA : Governing by crisis in 2025 . <p> Ed , when we first met over a decade ago , we were covering crisis on Capitol Hill . Crisis persists . Such a handful -- and Caitlin Huey-Burns as well . And Scott was there as well . <p> Look , they only have a handful of seats in the House for the Republican majority . They can only do so much , as Scott said , debt limit battle on the horizon , spending fights . Deja vu . That culture of crisis , governing to the brink of discussions is here again . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Ed O'Keefe . <p> ED O'KEEFE : I will make the firmer prediction that , based on all that chaos , Speaker Johnson wo n't be speaker by the end of 2025 . <p> Did that a few years ago on Paul Ryan , and it worked . So , watch out , Speaker Johnson . Nothing personal . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Be careful , Speaker Johnson . Be advised . <p> ED O'KEEFE : But just look at -- look at what faces him . <p> ( CROSSTALK ) <p> ROBERT COSTA : ... real soon . <p> ( LAUGHTER ) <p> ED O'KEEFE : The other one real quick , Washington Commanders will get a stadium here in the District of Columbia , because that congressional vote that authorized land ... <p> ( CROSSTALK ) <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Happened right before Congress adjourned . <p> ED O'KEEFE : It sure did . And it was a great surprise at D.C. It 'll happen this year . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Scott MacFarlane . <p> SCOTT MACFARLANE : Long before the next election , there will be some people departing Washington voluntarily . This is a challenging environment to be an elected official . <p> They 're getting thousands of threats a year on their lives , on their families . The travel is exhausting . And we 're coming into a relatively polarizing moment with Trump coming back into office . You 're going to see a lot of retirements in odd-numbered years , including 2025 . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : One of the things we also do in the year-end correspondents roundtable is dig into what was undercovered or underreported . <p> Jan ? <p> JAN CRAWFORD : Undercovered and underreported , that would be , to me , Joe Biden 's obvious cognitive decline that became undeniable in the televised debate . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : At the presidential debate with Donald Trump . <p> JAN CRAWFORD : Unquestioned . <p> And it 's starting to emerge now that his advisers kind of managed his limitations , which has been reported in " The Wall Street Journal , " for four years . And yet he insisted that he could still run for president . We should have much more forcefully questioned whether he was fit for office for another four years , which could have led to a primary for the Democrats . <p> It could have changed the scope of the entire election . Yet still , incredibly , we read in " The Washington Post " that his advisers are saying that he regrets that he dropped out of the race , that he thinks he could have beaten Trump . And I think that is either delusional or they 're gaslighting the American people . <p> ROBERT COSTA : President Biden has said repeatedly he was sick during the debate June 27 in Atlanta and he 's always been fine and he leaves fine . <p> That is his position , the position of many of his top aides as well , even though there is that reporting . <p> ( CROSSTALK ) <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Robert Costa . <p> ROBERT COSTA : The biggest story that 's underreported , the battle for working voters across the country . <p> I spent a lot of time this year with Shawn Fain , the head of the UAW . That 's the battle of the future . Who 's going to win over that person who 's aligned with labor ? Are the -- the industrial worker in this country . Is it going to be the Democratic Party or the Republican Party ? It remains a key story , deserves more attention . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Caitlin Huey-Burns . <p> CAITLIN HUEY-BURNS : I mentioned how we covered women voters , but also I think there is an aspect to which we underestimated or perhaps the public underestimated how Trump 's personality was n't as much of a burden to him . <p> And , in some ways , it turned out to be a benefit with low-propensity voters . And talking to the Trump campaign throughout the cycle and reporting on it , they were making this bet that , if he leaned into his personality and made no qualms about it , made no apologies about it , that would kind of speak to this authenticity factor , this premium that low- propensity voters , those not inclined to participate in elections , might be inclined towards . <p> It was a big bet . It paid off . And it will remain -- the biggest question I have is whether Republicans can replicate any of that , because so much of their political wins this year are unique to Donald Trump himself . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Scott MacFarlane , underreported . <p> SCOTT MACFARLANE : The scope and size and political impact of these forthcoming January 6 pardons . <p> Trump has never specified if it 's everybody or just some people . Will it include people who gassed and beat police officers with baseball bats , or will it just be those who pleaded guilty to misdemeanors ? He 's never been pressed to specify if it 's all or some . And what 's the political impact ? <p> Did his voters really want that ? Does he gain political capital or lose it if he pardons everyone ? <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Ed O'Keefe . <p> ED O'KEEFE : Once again , we do n't cover the Western Hemisphere enough and why it is that people come from the far reaches of South America . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : What is the gravitational pull of the United States in those particular countries ? <p> ED O'KEEFE : Exactly . <p> And it 's going to be more critical than ever in the coming year that we continue to explore and explain why it is they continue to do so , despite the threats of being sent back . <p> And watch also the cooperation between a lot of those countries , especially in Central America , with the United States and the intrigue they have over the first Latino secretary of state , the most senior Latino ever to serve in an administration and in the presidential line of succession , Marco Rubio . <p> I heard within days of the election from Latin American governments quite eager to get on the good side of Marco Rubio because they are thrilled to know there will be more attention paid to the hemisphere , as there should be . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : And there will be attention paid in terms of accepting those this administration incoming intends to deport . <p> ED O'KEEFE : Sends them back . <p> Yes , that -- because they understand that 's the gateway . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : To better relations with this administration . <p> ED O'KEEFE : Yes , that , if you start with that , and ensure that they 're being treated fairly on their way back , that they will probably end up taking them . <p> No formal agreements yet , but they 're willing to have the conversation . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : No better way to close out a calendar year than to have the correspondents roundtable here at Face the Nation . It 's been my honor and privilege to have you all here . <p> We will be right back with a lot more Face the Nation . Please stay with us . <p> ( ANNOUNCEMENTS ) <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Last week , the U.S. reported its first severe case of bird flu found in a patient in Louisiana . <p> For more , we 're joined by Dr. Leana Wen . She is the former Baltimore health commissioner . <p> Dr. Leana Wen , it 's great to have you with us . <p> So , bird flu , is this report out of Louisiana worrisome ? And , if so , why ? <p> DR . LEANA WEN ( Former Baltimore Health Commissioner ) : Well , it 's one more sign that the drumbeat of bird flu coming closer to humans is becoming a major threat . <p> So , we 've already seen this year that there have been a number of mammalian species close to humans that now have bird flu outbreaks . We have outbreaks in poultry in all 50 states . Sixteen states have outbreaks in cattle . In California , in the last 30 days , there have been more than 300 herds that tested positive . <p> And now we have 66 cases of bird flu in humans , and this is almost certainly a significant undercount , because we have not been doing nearly enough testing . So , we really do n't know the extent of bird flu that 's out there in humans . <p> But this particular case , it 's someone who is severely ill , but not only that . Researchers have isolated the virus in this individual who is sick in Louisiana , and they found that this particular strain of the virus appears to have acquired mutations that make it more likely to bind to airway receptors . <p> Bird flu has been around for a long time , but it has n't ... <p> MAJOR GARRETT : About 30 years . <p> DR . LEANA WEN : Yes , exactly . <p> But it has n't been a major issue in humans , because while it spreads among birds , it has n't really spread among mammals . But now there is this mutation . And there 's another concern now , Major , too which is that we 're in flu season , and it 's possible that a single person could have bird flu and seasonal flu at the same time . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Something called reassortment ... <p> DR . LEANA WEN : That 's right . That 's right . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : ... where things change because of one illness becoming another illness through reassortment of a mutated virus . <p> DR . LEANA WEN : That 's right . <p> And so the viruses could exchange genes . You could develop a new hybrid virus . And if you now have a virus that 's more contagious and causes more severe disease , that 's when it becomes a major threat to humankind . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : What should be happening in the Biden administration right now that is n't going on ? <p> DR . LEANA WEN : Yes , there are two main things that they should be doing in the days that they have left . <p> The first is to get testing out there . I feel like we should have learned our lesson from COVID that , just because we are n't testing , it does n't mean that the virus is n't there . It just means that we are n't looking for it . We should be having rapid tests , home tests , available to all farmworkers , to their families , for the clinicians taking care of them , so that we are n't waiting for public labs and CDC labs to tell us what 's bird flu or not . <p> And the second very important thing is , this is not like the beginning of COVID , where we were dealing with a new virus , we did n't have a vaccine . There actually is a vaccine developed already against H5N1 . The Biden administration has contracted with manufacturers to make almost five million doses of the vaccine . <p> However , they have not asked the FDA to authorize the vaccine . There 's research done on it . They could get this authorized now , and also get the vaccine out so -- and to farmworkers and to vulnerable people . <p> I think that 's the right approach , because we do n't know what the Trump administration is going to be doing around bird flu . If they have people coming in with anti-vaccine stances , could they hold up vaccine authorization ? If they do n't want to know how much bird flu is out there , could they withhold testing ? <p> I mean , that 's a possibility , and I think the Biden administration in the remaining days should get testing and vaccines widely available , so that at least it empowers state and local health officials and clinicians to do the right thing for their patients . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Dr. Wen , is bird flu in humans super dangerous ? <p> DR . LEANA WEN : Well , the World Health Organization estimates that , in prior outbreaks of the bird flu , that the mortality rate is 52 percent , 52 percent . <p> However , in the -- in this most recent outbreak , it seems that most cases have been mild , and maybe some people even have asymptomatic infection . But the question is , we do n't know what happens when bird flu affects more vulnerable individuals . <p> People infected so far in the U.S. have been mainly farmworkers , who are working , presumably generally healthy , as opposed to what happens when you get to children , to pregnant women , to older individuals with chronic illnesses . <p> We do n't know how deadly , how dangerous bird flu is going to be for those individuals . And , again , that 's one more reason why we do n't want it to spread and acquire more mutations . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Thirty seconds . <p> Norovirus is what you call it . Stomach bug is what I would call it . Numbers are surging . It 's the holidays . What should people do to protect themselves ? <p> Norovirus is the most common foodborne illness here in the U.S. It 's very hard to avoid once it 's in your family . And , also , do n't prepare food if you 're having vomiting and diarrhea stomach cramps , because you do n't want to spread it to other people . <p> Doctor , you talked about vaccines and testing in the context of bird flu and preparations therefore . Vaccines and testings were part of the Covid conversation and the Trump administration , when it was in charge . <p> What level of concern do you have about some of the people appointed by President-elect Trump to incoming public health positions regarding issues of vaccine , testing , public health , efficacy ? <p> DR . LEANA WEN , ( Former Baltimore Health Commissioner ) : I think that there are some people coming into this administration who are very competent . For example , Dr. Marty Markary , a Johns Hopkins surgeon , we have worked together for the last ten-plus years on issues like hospital medical error ( ph ) . He 's an independent thinker who really listens to science and is willing to change his mind when there is new evidence that emerges . <p> But I have a lot of concern , and I 've spoken to my colleagues in medicine and public health , and I think all of us share this concern in particular about Robert F. Kennedy , the nominee to be the head of Health and Human Services . Kennedy has espoused many views in the past that are anti- vaccine . In fact , he 's been one of the leading anti-vaxing advocates in the country , if not in the world over the last couple of decades . <p> He 's also someone who has made his career from being an activist and not a scientist . And what I mean is that , if you 're a scientist , even if you have deeply held convictions , you should be willing to change your mind if there are new facts that are presented . <p> It 's a fact that childhood vaccines are safe and they are lifesaving . A CDC analysis just now found that the childhood vaccination have saved over 1.1 million children 's lives over the last 20 years . According to a Lancet ( ph ) study , childhood vaccines saved 154 million lives globally over the last 50 years . I mean these are facts . And it 's very concerning to have someone who does n't believe in the - in how science works and basic scientific principles to be in charge of our nation 's preeminent scientific and medical agencies . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : With that perspective , do you believe it 's more imperative than you described earlier for the Biden administration to move forward on bird flu vaccinations and testing ? <p> DR . LEANA WEN : Well , that 's exactly it , I do n't want to wait for the Trump administration to potentially hold up the vaccines saying that they want more evidence . Look , evidence is always good and facts are always good . New research is always good . But you also have to weigh that against a potential catastrophe as we could be having for bird flu the way that we had for Covid . <p> There 's no reason why we should hold off on getting more testing . We need to know how much bird flu there is out there . We need to know if there are new mutations that are being developed . Other countries also need to know so that they can prepare as well . <p> And I think it 's a major problem that in the U.S. we have been holding back on testing and also holding back on getting the vaccines deployed that are already developed . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Dr. Leana Wen , thank you so much for your expertise . Thanking you twice . And a Happy New Year to you . <p> DR . LEANA WEN : Thank you . To you , too , Major . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : We 'll be right back . <p> ( ANNOUNCEMENTS ) <p> MAJOR GARRETT : We turn now to the economy and what to expect in year 2025 . We do so with Bank of America senior economist Aditya Bhave . <p> Aditya , good morning . It 's great to see you . <p> I 've covered a lot of presidential transitions . There 's always an assessment by the outgoing president about what kind of economy he 's giving to his successor . That 's a political conversation . Objectively , what is the economy the incoming Trump administration inheriting ? <p> ADITYA BHAVE ( Senior U.S. Economist , Bank of America ) : Good morning . Thank you for having me . <p> So , we think the economy has really solid momentum going into next year . You can look at our internal card data , for example , that shows a nice acceleration in spending going into the holidays . You can also look at the TSA on airport traffic , and that looks really strong around the holiday period as well . <p> You can also think about things via a wider lens . Start in 2022 . That was a year in which GDP grew by only 1 percent . CPI inflation peaked at 9 percent . And all of the talk back then was stagflation , when , not if , is a recession going to arrive . Why are workers quiet quitting . And then you look at what happened over the following two years , right . This was quite unexpected and in a very pleasant way . Three percent GDP growth . Inflation coming down . Labor productivity moving up . So , all positives that leave us optimistic going into next year that we can continue to grow above 2 percent , albeit with somewhat sticky inflation . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Is there any larger x factor in 2025 than the scale and scope of promised mass deportations of the Trump administration ? <p> ADITYA BHAVE : From a market perspective , I think the two biggest issues will actually be fiscal policy and trade policy . And there 's a lot of uncertainty around those as well , just as there is around immigration policy . So , with fiscal policy , you had this conversation in your last segment , right , the majority for Republicans in the House is very , very narrow . So , if they want to extend the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act , they want to do more fiscal stimulus , which we think will probably eventually get done , they have a very slim margin to work with . <p> And then with trade policy , we really need to understand , you know , how much of the tariffs that President-elect Trump has threatened are actually going to be implemented versus how much is a negotiating tool , right , so how much is transactional . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : And for mass deportations , how much do you fear that could affect the labor market and our country , that is to say put upward pressure on prices because if there is mass deportations and workplace inspections , lots of workers in agriculture , construction , meat processing and other vital industries could be pulled out of those sectors . <p> ADITYA BHAVE : So , I think it 's - our base ( ph ) case is that there will be a slowdown in the flow of immigrants , right ? It 's harder to know what will actually happen around deportations . <p> From an economic perspective , a worker is also a consumer , so there are some down risks to economic activity if there 's a large change in the population , right ? That 's just math . <p> In terms of pressures in specific sectors , it 's really going to depend on how things play out . Yes , there could be labor shortages in certain sectors , but it 's very hard to know at this stage . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Many CEOs I listen to say that they expect the tariffs and regulatory relief to kind of wash themselves out , meaning essentially , you put them together , it 's benign on the U.S. economy . Is that your perspective ? <p> ADITYA BHAVE : I think that 's about right . If you look at the four key policy issues that we 've been focused on , as I said earlier , trade , fiscal policy , immigration policy and deregulation , we think they 'll roughly wash out . But again , the starting point is pretty helpful , right ? So , we think that we can continue to grow at around 2 to 2.5 percent this - the coming year , as well as in 2026 . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : So , in reading year-end summaries , " The Economist , " " The Wall Street Journal " and " The Washington Post , " all in their own way , warned that the stock market may be overvalued , may be to exuberant . Do you share any of those concerns ? <p> ADITYA BHAVE : I 'm not an equity analyst , so it 's hard for me to day , to give a specific number . Our equity strategists do think that stocks can continue to run up to around 6,600 , 6,700 by the end of the year . <p> What you can say is that , obviously , there 's been a pretty aggressive run- up in tech stocks , but it is not of the same scale that we saw in the late ' 90s if we 're really worried about a similar bubble . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : What effect do you believe cryptocurrencies and artificial intelligence will play in the global economy in 2025 ? <p> ADITYA BHAVE : So , when it comes to A.I. , I think there 's two things to be said . The actual impact of A.I. adoption is probably going to show up pretty slowly in the data . So , I do n't know that we 'll necessarily see that in 2025 or 2026 . It might be a story for a few years down the line . <p> But what has been really impactful already , and probably will be much more impactful in the coming years , is just laying the groundwork for A.I. , right ? So , if you see the increases in investment in data centers , and you think about what all that requires , right ? <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Yes . We need to - <p> ADITYA BHAVE : It requires materials . It requires energy supply . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Aditya , we need to go . Pardon - pardon me . <p> ADITYA BHAVE : It requires labor , you - you put - sure . Sure . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Yes , I 'm sorry to cut you off . We have a hard break we need to get to . <p> Aditya Bhave from Bank of America , Happy New Year and thank you so much for being with us . <p> We 'll be right back in just a moment . <p> ( ANNOUNCEMENTS ) <p> MAJOR GARRETT : In 22 days Donald Trump will be sworn in as the nation 's 47th president , only the second to serve two nonconsecutive terms . <p> For more perspective on the most powerful position in the world , we spoke with David Rubenstein , the co-founder and co-chairman of the Carlyle Group . His new book , " The Highest Calling , " studies the highs and lows of some of this country 's most consequential presidents . <p> ( BEGIN VT ) <p> MAJOR GARRETT : How would you compare , based on your study of the presidency , our unsettled times now to unsettled times past ? <p> DAVID RUBENSTEIN ( Co-Founder and Co-Chairman , The Carlyle Group ) : Well , nothing is as bad as the Civil War , when we had 3 percent of our population killed and the fighting in Washington was so bad that about 60 different times members of Congress hit other members of Congress on the floor of the Congress . So , we 're not quite there yet . <p> Clearly , though , we 're going into some uncharted waters because we have a president coming back who had been president before . That had n't happened since Grover Cleveland was re-elected in 1892 . And Trump has got more power than I think many people would have thought by the virtue of his victory size . And I do think he 's going to act like he 's got a mandate and Washington is bracing for what 's going to happen . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Related to that , before the election results were known , polls indicated pretty consistently that Trump supporters were afraid if Harris would win , Harris supporters were afraid if Trump would win . <p> Based on your study of this institution , the presidency , can you recall a time where that fear of an outcome was as prevalent as it was leading into this election ? <p> DAVID RUBENSTEIN : Well , there have been a couple times when people really were afraid that the next person coming in that was the opposite party would really hurt the country in many ways . Clearly , my former boss , Jimmy Carter , really feared Ronald Reagan . He thought that Ronald Reagan was going to do - undo many of the things that Carter had done . Obviously , Reagan won by a landslide . <p> And you 've seen other times when this has happened as well . So , for example , when FDR won the first time , Herbert Hoover could not believe that this man , Herbert Hoover , had been such a distinguished American before he was president , and while he was president he had problems , but he was a very distinguished person . He never took FDR seriously . And FDR did n't really take Hoover that seriously . He refused to really meet with him , essentially , or met with him briefly and they just did n't want anything to do with him - each other . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : You mentioned Grover Cleveland . There 's not a chapter in the book about Grover Cleveland . Is there anything that retroactively fascinates you about the Cleveland presidency now that Trump has returned to office , or are you similarly fascinated by the time in which he was president , the Gilded Age ? <p> DAVID RUBENSTEIN : Grover Cleveland was a Democrat , a former governor of New York , very well respected , but he lost the election in 1888 , and he came back in 1892 . Now , one of the things we do n't really know is whether a president , when he has a second term after he 's been out of office , whether he 'll be fresher , whether he 'll bring better people in , whether he 'll be more experienced . <p> For example , Grover Cleveland 's second term was reasonably successful . And , you know , maybe Trump 's will be as well . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : One of the things the nation struggled with this last 18 months or so was the collision of politics and the law . Do you think there are any lessons to be learned from this clash and the politics that came from the clash of trying to indict and try someone who had been president of the United States and was aspiring to that office again ? <p> DAVID RUBENSTEIN : I think there is a feeling among many people that it was n't a good idea to indict the president of the United States . I think the trial in New York , where Trump was convicted , I think really helped him in his election effort . And I think there are many people who are - who are Trump supporters who believe that the indictments that came out of the special prosecutor , Jack Smith , were really political as well . <p> And so I think there 's - both sides feel that the other side is really talking past each other . The people who are in the Justice Department now feel that these indictments were fair and correct and had a special prosecutor and so forth . The Trump people believe they were completely political . I hope going forward that the Justice Department is not seen as political because one of the strengths of this country has been the rule of law , and I hope that the Justice Department that 's coming in now will continue that tradition . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Do you have a president in mind who , based on your study , grew in your regard and a president in your mind who , based on your study , got more diminished ? <p> DAVID RUBENSTEIN : Harry Truman left office extremely unpopular , very unpopular , and he was thought to be an inappropriate ( ph ) successor to the great FDR . Now , because of books by David McCollough and other people who have written great books about Truman , people see him as one of our great presidents because post-World War II he helped end the war because he dropped the atomic bomb , which many people say was a mistake , but ki would say many historians think it was necessary to avoid - <p> MAJOR GARRETT : And he never doubted ? <p> DAVID RUBENSTEIN : He never doubted . He never had self-doubt . Self-doubt was one of - was not one of his thing . He always believed it was the right decision . But he also was responsible for NATO , the U.N. , the World Bank , the IMF , and the CIA , which he created as well . All these things he created <p> MAJOR GARRETT : And the recognition of Israel . <p> DAVID RUBENSTEIN : Yes , he recognized Israel , even though his secretary of state threatened to resign over it . So , he was a person who has really risen up . <p> A person who 's gone down , I would say , or two that have gone down a lot . One is Andrew Jackson . Remember , Democrats used to say , we 're going to have a Jefferson-Jackson day dinner . You do n't have that anymore because Jackson is now widely seen as being racist and very anti-Native American , and he really did many things that I think killed a lot of people , particularly in the Native American community . So , he 's not really well respected today by scholars . <p> Another person I would say is - is that - whose reputation has gone down is Woodrow Wilson . Woodrow Wilson was the great reformer after being president at Princeton , two years later he 's - he 's governor of New Jersey , then president of the United States . <p> However , he now is widely seen as having done two things that were really big mistakes . One , he resegregated the federal workforce and had been integrated . Two , and this is very damaging I think as well , he - he had a stroke and with about 18 months to go , he could n't really do what he had done before . He hid that from the public , and his wife essentially became a shadow president . She was really making decisions and deciding things that maybe he should have decided , and the public did n't know this . And that was a big problem . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : You often ask biographers what question they would most want to pose to the subject of their presidential biography . Let me expand on that . If you could go to dinner with any president , who would it be , and what question would you want to make sure you got answered ? <p> DAVID RUBENSTEIN : Without doubt , the greatest president and the greatest American ever is Abraham Lincoln . He was a person who - was not an abolitionist but ultimately came to free the slaves through the Emancipation Proclamation . And he also won the Civil War despite the fact that many people in the north did n't really want to fight the Civil War . They 'd say , let the south go , we 'll have our own country . Lincoln said , no , we 're going to hold the union together . And he did that . We lost 3 percent of our population in the war , but he kept the union together and I think made the United States a stronger country as a result . <p> We ended slavery eventually because of the 13th amendment . But , most importantly , he did it with humility . He did n't run around saying , look , I just won the Civil War . I just did the Gettysburg Address . Is n't that a great speech ? He did n't do that . He did n't brag about it . He was very humble . And I think he had a sense of humor and a sense of perspective that is a really good thing for presidents . <p> And I would like to ask him , do you have any regrets about not having freed the slaves earlier ? Do you have any regrets about not getting rid of some of your generals earlier who were not very good ? And he waited a couple years before he got Ulysses S. Grant in . <p> Grant is also a person I should mention . He had the most amazing meteoric rise of almost anybody who 's become president . He was selling firewood on the streets of St. Louis in 1860 . The war breaks out in 1861 , more or less , and eight years later he 's president of the United States . I mean it 's just amazing . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : You mentioned humility . George W. Bush told you in your interview with him that that was the most important characteristic a president can possession . I 've read other words that are important for presidents - courage , compassion , curiosity , decisiveness . Based on your study , what would you say is the most important ? <p> DAVID RUBENSTEIN : I think the most important thing is having a perspective that you really want to do what 's right for the American people . You 're not trying to make money . You 're not trying to feather your own nest . You 're not trying to worry about history . You 're just trying to do what 's best for the American people . <p> The qualities that I admire in leaders are people who are reasonably intelligent but not geniuses . You do n't have to be a genius to be a great president . People who are willing to listen to other people . People that have some humility . People that are highly ethical . Those are the qualities that I think great leaders have in any area . <p> Overall , we 've gotten some pretty talented people who have served as president of the United States . And we 've been fortunate . Lincoln , Washington , FDR , Teddy Roosevelt , Jefferson , and modern day presidents , Eisenhower , among others , have had some really great attributes and the country is good and I think better off for having had good people serve . <p> One of my concerns in the future is that because it 's become so political in Washington sometimes and the fight - infighting has been so intense that I 'm not sure that - as many good people want to rise up and run for president in the future as we 've seen in the past . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : You mentioned in your very first answer the Civil War , the greatest time of testing in our country 's history . You do n't have to be very aggressive online to find casual talk among Americans about another civil war . They banty it about with some frequency . <p> How worried are you about that , and do you think the mere discussion of it creates the potential of an inevitability ? <p> DAVID RUBENSTEIN : Well , I think there has been discussions . Some people say the red states and the blue states should separate , but I do n't think that 's realistic or really going to happen . I think the country realizes that we are the strongest power in the world economically , militarily , politically , culturally and , in part , because the country 's got a big enough population , and in part because we have a lot of attributes in red and blue states . I do n't think it 's realistic . People talk about that , but I do n't think that 's going to happen . The country is not going to be split up the way it was in the Civil War . I just do n't see that as being realistic or desirable . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Is there any doubt in your mind that presidents , all presidents , must guard against bitterness , anger , resentment , some of the things that fueled their pursuit of the office in the first place ? Meaning , once they got there they need to set those things aside , even though they were part of the engine ? <p> DAVID RUBENSTEIN : Everybody goes through life and has ups and downs . And you get a lot of bitterness and you get resentment of people . People that are good presidents ultimately rise up above that . A lot of people criticized Abraham Lincoln for many , many things . They called him all kinds of terrible names and they did say he was barely human . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : They called him a gorilla . <p> DAVID RUBENSTEIN : Yes . And he rose above that . And I think you have to rise above it . And , hopefully , when you do n't have to worry about politics anymore in a second term , for example , you can rise above all the concerns you 've had . When you 're president of the United States , if you carry your resentments too long , it can affect others people adversely . So , I think in the case of President Trump , for example , clearly he has some resentments , but I think overall I believe he 's going to rise above that in his second term . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Is Richard Nixon , which you , in your book , describe as a tragic figure , almost a Shakespearean-like tragic figure , the most available cautionary tale about resentments in the presidency ? <p> DAVID RUBENSTEIN : If only Shakespeare had been alive to write about Richard Nixon , it would have been a wonderful tragedy . He 's a man who 's really talented , very smart . He stumbles from running for president in 1960 , barely loses . Loses for 1962 in the governorship of California and comes back and is elected in 1968 against all the odds . <p> But he resented the people that looked down on him . He resented the liberals . He resented the ivy leaguers , as he would call them . And he really , I think , took those resentments and he perpetuated them through his chief of staff , Rob Haldeman and other people . And the result was a terrible thing called Watergate . <p> I think Richard Nixon , had he not had Watergate , I think he would have gone down as a really impressive president because they opened to China , things he did on the environment . But Watergate will be what he 's remembered for . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Was he the least ethical president in our history ? <p> DAVID RUBENSTEIN : I do n't think there 's - that 's easy to say because some presidents had issues that we do n't know about as much . Richard Nixon was n't a person who was trying to make money for himself necessarily . He was n't grafting himself into - into business deals and so forth . But I think he had some ethical failings . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : The book is called " The Highest Calling . " Is the presidency the highest calling ? Some might argue that an age defining innovation is a higher calling or being a captain of industry is a higher calling , or just being a simple CEO employing tens of thousands of people is a higher calling . Why is it the highest calling ? <p> DAVID RUBENSTEIN : The reason I called it " The Highest Calling , " and I had historically said that private equity , my profession , was the highest calling , but that was more tongue-in-cheek , is this . When Woodrow Wilson went to Paris to help end World War I , he was cheered by hundreds and hundreds of thousands of Parisians . And people , for the first time , realized the most important person in the United States , in the world , really , is the president of the United States . And that 's been true almost since Wilson came back from Paris . <p> When FDR was running , the world really effectively , because he was president of the United States during World War II , he was the most important person in the world for sure . And I think ever since then , because of the economic , military , political power of the United States , whoever is the leader of the United States is almost certainly the most powerful person in the world , and pursuing what I would call the highest calling because you can affect the lives of people so much more significantly as president of the United States than any other job in the world . 
@@119409058 <h> Gaza babies struggle with hypothermia as temperatures drop and war continues around them <p> At least four infants have died of hypothermia in recent weeks in the Gaza Strip , where hundreds of thousands of Palestinians displaced by nearly 15 months of war are huddled in tents along the rainy , windswept coast as winter arrives . <p> Jomaa al-Batran , 20 days old , was found with his head as " cold as ice " when his parents woke up Sunday , his father , Yehia , said . The baby 's twin brother , Ali , was moved to the intensive care unit of Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital . <p> Their father said the twins were born one month premature and spent just a day in the nursery at the hospital , which like other health centers in Gaza has been overwhelmed and is only partially functioning . <p> He said medics told their mother to keep the newborns warm , but it was impossible because they live in a tent and temperatures regularly drop below 10 degrees Celsius ( 50 degrees Fahrenheit ) at night . Deaths from hypothermia can occur at temperatures between 30 and 50 degrees Fahrenheit . <p> " We are eight people , and we only have four blankets , " al-Batran said as he cradled his son 's pale body . He described drops of dew seeping through the tent cover overnight . " Look at his color because the cold . Do you see how frozen he is ? " <p> Children , some of them barefoot , stood outdoors and watched him mourn . The shrouded infant was laid at the feet of an imam , barely larger than his shoes . After prayers , the imam took off his ankle-length coat and wrapped it around the father . <p> Israel launched an offensive on the Gaza Strip after declaring war against Hamas following the deadly attacks by the group 's militants on Oct. 7 , 2023 , that killed some 1,200 people . <p> Israel 's bombardment and ground invasion of Gaza has killed over 45,000 Palestinians , more than half of them women and children , according to Gaza 's Health Ministry , which does not distinguish between fighters and civilians in its count . <p> Aid groups have struggled to deliver food and supplies and say there are shortages of blankets , warm clothing and firewood . <p> Elsewhere , an Israeli strike on a hospital 's upper floor in Gaza City on Sunday killed at least seven people and wounded several others , according to the Civil Defense , first responders affiliated with the Hamas-run government . The Israeli military said it struck a Hamas control center inside the building , which it said was no longer serving as a hospital . <p> And a strike near Nuseirat in central Gaza killed eight and wounded more than 15 , according to officials at Al-Awda Hospital . <p> Meanwhile , Israel 's military said militants launched five projectiles from northern Gaza into Israel , the second time in two days , adding that two were intercepted and the rest likely fell in open areas . Rockets from northern Gaza had been rare in recent months as Israel 's military increased operations there . 
@@119419850 <h> Netanyahu is getting his prostate removed as he faces crises on multiple fronts <p> TEL AVIV , Israel ( AP ) -- Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is having his prostate removed on Sunday , his office said , a procedure that comes as he manages multiple crises at once , including the ongoing war in Gaza and his own trial for alleged corruption . <p> Netanyahu , who has had a string of health issues in recent years , has gone to great lengths to bolster a public image of himself as a healthy , energetic leader . During his trial this month he boasted about working 18-hour days , even if those long hours are accompanied by a cigar . But as Israel 's longest-serving leader , such a grueling workload over a total of 17 years in power could also take a toll on his well-being . <p> The procedure has already had a fallout : Netanyahu 's lawyer Amit Hadad said in a letter to the court the Israeli prime minister would be fully sedated for the procedure and would be hospitalized for " a number of days , " asking that his three days of testimony this week be canceled . The court agreed . <p> Netanyahu 's office said that Justice Minister Yariv Levin , a close Netanyahu ally , would serve as acting prime minister during the procedure . <p> With so much at stake in the turbulent region , Netanyahu 's health in wartime is a concern for both Israelis and the wider world . <h> Prostate issues are common for older men , and recovery can be quick <p> According to Netanyahu 's office , the Israeli leader was diagnosed with a urinary tract infection on Wednesday stemming from a benign enlargement of his prostate . The infection was treated successfully with antibiotics but a procedure on Sunday will remove his prostate . <p> Complications from prostate enlargement are common in men in their 70s and 80s , Dr. Shay Golan , head of the oncology urology service at Israel 's Rabin Medical Center , told Israeli Army Radio . Golan spoke in general terms about the procedure and was not involved in Netanyahu 's care or treatment . <p> He said that an enlarged prostate can block proper emptying of the bladder , leading to a build-up of urine that can then lead to an infection or other complications . After medicinal treatment , doctors can recommend a procedure to remove the prostate to prevent future blockages , Golan said . <p> In Netanyahu 's case , because the prostate is not cancerous , Golan said doctors will likely perform an endoscopic surgery , which is carried out by inserting small instruments into a body cavity , rather than making any surgical cuts in the abdomen to reach the prostate . <p> The procedure lasts about an hour , Golan said , and recovery is quick . Golan also said that aside from catheter use for one to three days after the procedure , patients can return to normal activity without any significant limitations . <h> Netanyahu has had some health issues before , including a heart condition <p> Netanyahu insists he is in excellent health and his office has worked to craft a public image that backs that up . It releases footage of him touring war zones in full protective gear flanked by gruff military officers , or meeting with defense officials on windswept hilltops in youthful dark shades and puffer jackets . <p> But that image was shattered last year when Netanyahu 's doctors revealed that he had a heart condition , a problem that he had apparently long known about but concealed from the public . <p> A week after a fainting spell , Netanyahu was urgently fitted with a pacemaker to control his heartbeat . Only then did staff at the Sheba Medical Center reveal that Netanyahu has for years experienced a condition that can cause irregular heartbeats . <p> That revelation came at a time when Netanyahu was dealing with massive anti-government protests . The news about a chronic heart problem stoked further anger and distrust at a time of extreme political polarization in Israel . <p> Last year , Netanyahu was rushed to the hospital for what doctors said likely was dehydration , where he stayed overnight , prompting his weekly Cabinet meeting to be delayed . <p> Earlier this year , Netanyahu underwent hernia surgery , during which he was under full anesthesia and unconscious . His close confidant , Justice Minister Yariv Levin , served as acting prime minister during the operation . <h> The surgery comes at a turbulent time in the region <p> As Israel 's leader , Netanyahu is at the center of major global events that are shifting the Middle East . With the dizzying pace of the past 14 months , being incapacitated for even a few hours can be risky in the current regional maelstrom . <p> The health issue also shines a new light on Netanyahu 's age . Prostate issues are common and in many cases easily treatable . But they are prominent especially among older men . <p> The procedure puts a dent in Netanyahu 's image of vigor at a time when he would want to project strength more than ever , both to an Israeli audience navigating constant threats as well as to Israel 's enemies looking to expose Israel 's weaknesses . <p> ( Copyright ( c ) 2024 The Associated Press . All Rights Reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten , or redistributed. ) 
@@119420242 <p> Egyptian President Anwar Sadat ( L ) , US President Jimmy Carter ( C ) and Israeli Prime Minister Menahem Begin FILE : The triple handshake between Egyptian President Anwar Sadat ( L ) , US President Jimmy Carter ( C ) and Israeli Prime Minister Menahem Begin seals the signing of the Israeli-Egyptian peace treat March 26 , 1979 on the White House lawn in Washington DC . Three years later , Jewish settlers resisted evacuation from their Sinai Desert settlements and now , 22 years after that , another generation of settlers in the Gaza Strip are threatening a last stand against forced removal should ruling Prime Minister Ariel Sharon go through with his plan to withdraw from the Gaza Strip . ( Photo by Tel Or Beni/GPO/Getty Images ) ( Getty Images/Getty Images ) <p> ByWSBTV.com News Staff <p> December 29 , 2024 at 4:29 pm EST <p> ATLANTA -- In 1979 , President Jimmy Carter finished one of his greatest accomplishments . He brokered peace between Israel and Egypt -- the first time that happened with any Middle Eastern country . <p> On Mar. 26 , 1979 , it was an iconic image of Carter 's presidency as he put his hands over the historic handshake between Egypt 's Anwar Sadat and Israel 's Menachem Begin . <p> He sat with them for 14 days at Camp David to help make peace between the two nations . <p> " He was known for bringing together two very crusty , grizzled nationalists who really did n't like each other , " Emory professor Ken Stein said . " He interceded and that 's what he does best . He 's very good at having people talk to him . And what he did , was he massaged their words and then reworked them into a meaningful text . " 
@@119438151 <h> Loading .... <p> It was wise of the University of Maine System administration to refuse to submit to the demands of a group of students and faculty who do not understand what the consequences of divestment from businesses with connections to Israel could be ( " UMaine System board says it wo n't consider divesting from Israel , " Dec. 23 ) . What might come next ? Will professors who support Israel be barred from teaching ? Will Jewish students be refused admission ? Just as the City of Portland 's City Council vote to divest could be the slippery slope , we ask : Now what ? Will people who side with the only true democracy in the Middle East be refused employment at City Hall ? Will city employees be fired ? <p> A recent op-ed asked why Jewish Americans should be afraid of such resolutions and demands for divestment . A knowledge of history makes this movement against the Jewish state sound like the beginnings of past horrific events . When crowds chant " From the river to the sea " it means the eradication of a beautiful country , a spiritual homeland for Jews and Christians . <p> Everyone involved in the Gaza conflict wants peace except Hamas , the ruling entity there . Its members cruelly and cynically hide among the civilian population and loot trucks carrying humanitarian aid . We all grieve for innocent lives lost . But Israel has no partner for peace in Gaza or the West Bank . There is a saying : " If the Arabs laid down their arms there , would be peace . If Israel laid down its arms , there would be no Israel . " <h> Maine Voices Columns <p> Maine Voices columns ( 550-650 words ) should include the author 's name , address and daytime phone number . They may be emailed to : **27;1264;TOOLONG . Columns may be edited for length and content . 
@@119438152 <h> Loading .... <p> It was nice to see a Hanukkah article make the front page ( Dec. 26 ) . But I wonder why the writer felt compelled to insert a disputed Gaza death toll statistic into an article with substance that had nothing to do with the current war . <p> The sentence prior , stating it 's been a difficult year for Jewish people , could have been the end of it . But I 'm guessing the reporter had some cognitive dissonance about sympathizing with Jews . The editors of this paper should have struck that misplaced , irrelevant statement . My initial pleasure was erased . Happy Hanukkah . <h> Maine Voices Columns <p> Maine Voices columns ( 550-650 words ) should include the author 's name , address and daytime phone number . They may be emailed to : **27;1293;TOOLONG . Columns may be edited for length and content . 
@@119439741 <p> On Thursday , The New York Times ran a bazillion-word would-be expose on the ongoing United States-backed Israeli genocide in the Gaza Strip titled Israel Loosened Its Rules to Bomb Hamas Fighters , Killing Many More Civilians . It can also be listened to on the newspaper 's website -- if you happen to have 28 minutes and 27 seconds to kill . <p> The word " genocide " appears exactly once in the article -- and only as an allegation that Israel denies : " Israel , which has been accused of genocide in a case before the International Court of Justice , says it complies with international law by taking all feasible precautions to minimize civilian casualties . " <p> And yet as the article itself demonstrates , any such pretence of precaution was essentially thrown to the wind on October 7 , 2023 , when the Israeli military issued an order that gave mid-ranking officers unprecedented leeway in authorising attacks on Gaza . In previous conflicts with Hamas , according to the Times , " many Israeli strikes were approved only after officers concluded that no civilians would be hurt " -- which would certainly be news to the thousands of Palestinians in Gaza slaughtered by Israel in the past 20 years alone . <p> Advertisement <p> The new order gave officers the " authority to risk killing up to 20 civilians " with each strike and meant that the military could " target rank-and-file militants as they were at home surrounded by relatives and neighbors , instead of only when they were alone outside " . One wonders how the Israeli military nonetheless managed to pulverise entire apartment buildings in Gaza in every war leading up to this by only targeting militants " when they were alone outside " . <p> Patting themselves on the back for their scoop , the article 's authors stress that the October 7 order had not been previously reported -- as though the fact that Israeli officers were authorised to risk killing civilians is somehow surprising in a genocide . But rather than report genocide as fact , the Western corporate media instead obscure the big picture by concerning themselves with things like extensive investigations into Israel 's bureaucratic manoeuvres to " loosen " the rules of war . <p> More than 45,000 Palestinians have been killed in Gaza since October 2023 although the true death toll is undoubtedly significantly higher . As per Article II of the Genocide Convention , genocide means " acts committed with intent to destroy , in whole or in part , a national , ethnical , racial or religious group " , including by " killing members of the group " or " causing serious bodily or mental harm to members of the group " . <p> But the corporate media refuse to take even the Israeli leadership 's own word for it and the flaunting of genocidal intent day in and day out for nearly 15 months . Deputy Knesset Speaker Nissim Vaturi , for example , took to the platform X at the outset of the war to proclaim : " Now we all have one common goal -- erasing the Gaza Strip from the face of the Earth . " Shortly thereafter , Israeli President Isaac Herzog chimed in with the suggestion that civilians in Gaza were absolutely legitimate targets : " It is an entire nation out there that is responsible . " <p> Advertisement <p> While the Times report includes damning details regarding Israel 's behaviour , at the end of the day it 's always the fault of Hamas -- and Israel is always permitted to remain in the self-appointed club of ethical and " civilised " nations . This enables the United States newspaper of record to project a veneer of fair-minded criticism without fundamentally condemning Israel 's current mass extermination campaign . <p> So it is that the Times informs us that " unlike Hamas , which fires rockets indiscriminately at civilian areas , Israel and all Western armies operate under a multilayered oversight system that assesses the legality of planned strikes . " Never mind that much of the Israeli military activity described in the article itself would appear to qualify as indiscriminate bombing of civilian areas . <p> After the October 7 order , another order issued on October 8 , 2023 , permitted the military to " cumulatively endanger up to 500 civilians a day " in strikes . The article continues : " In any case , the limit was removed two days later -- allowing officers to sign off on as many strikes as they believed were legal . " <p> Other findings from the Times investigation also imply blatant indiscrimination , such as that the Israelis " often relied on a crude statistical model to assess the risk of civilian harm , and sometimes launched strikes on targets several hours after last locating them , increasing the risk of error " . Plus , the military " struck at a pace that made it harder to confirm it was hitting legitimate targets " while also adopting an " unproven system for finding new targets that used artificial intelligence at a vast scale " . <p> Advertisement <p> But this , after all , is what happens in genocide . If Times journalists were n't so committed to parroting the US establishment line on Israel and disappearing the G-word , perhaps they would have been less shocked to find that " on a few occasions , senior Israeli commanders approved strikes on Hamas leaders that they knew would each endanger more than 100 noncombatants -- crossing an extraordinary threshold for a contemporary Western military . " <p> Meanwhile , as the Times gets bogged down with the particulars of Israeli military orders , Israel carries on with its goal of " erasing the Gaza Strip from the face of the Earth " with the help of extraordinary quantities of US money and weaponry . And unfortunately , media complicity in letting Israel get away with genocide is hardly extraordinary at all . <p> The views expressed in this article are the author 's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera 's editorial stance . 
@@119441658 <p> A member of the security forces of the newly formed Syrian government looks on as members of Bashar Assad 's army , or a pro-government militia , line up to register as part of an " identification and reconciliation " process in Damascus , Syria , Monday , Dec. 30 , 2024 . <p> A member of Bashar Assad 's army , or a pro-government militia , talks to members of the security forces of the newly formed Syrian government as he takes part in an " identification and reconciliation " process in Damascus , Syria , Monday , Dec. 30 , 2024 . <p> Members of Bashar Assad 's army , or pro-government militia , line up to register with the newly formed Syrian government as part of an " identification and reconciliation " process in Damascus , Syria , Monday , Dec. 30 , 2024 . <p> Members of the security forces of the newly formed Syrian government stand in front of a damaged weapons and military infrastructure , following an explosion on Sunday , that the Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said was an Israeli airstrike that targeted a weapons depot belonging to Assad 's forces , in Adra , in the outskirts of Damascus , Syria , Monday , Dec. 30 , 2024 . <h> Israel 's military says it intercepted a missile fired toward the country by Yemen 's Houthi rebels <p> Boys warm up next to a fire on a cold day in Douma , on the outskirts of Damascus , Syria , Sunday , Dec. 29 , 2024 ( AP Photo/Mosa'ab Elshamy ) <p> Mosa'ab Elshamy - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Boys warm up next to a fire on a cold day in Douma , on the outskirts of Damascus , Syria , Sunday , Dec. 29 , 2024 ( AP Photo/Mosa'ab Elshamy ) <p> Ghaith Alsayed - stringer , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> A man cycles past a building that was damaged by airstrikes during the Assad rule in Douma , on the outskirts of Damascus , Syria , Sunday , Dec. 29 , 2024 ( AP Photo/Ghaith Alsayed ) <p> Mosa'ab Elshamy - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> People walk between buildings that were damaged by airstrikes during the Assad rule in Douma , on the outskirts of Damascus , Syria , Sunday , Dec. 29 , 2024 ( AP Photo/Mosa'ab Elshamy ) <p> Mosa'ab Elshamy - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Wokers at a tyre shop wait for customers in Douma , on the outskirts of Damascus , Syria , Sunday , Dec. 29 , 2024 ( AP Photo/Mosa'ab Elshamy ) <p> Omar Sanadiki - stringer , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> A member of the security forces of the newly formed Syrian government looks on as members of Bashar Assad 's army , or a pro-government militia , line up to register as part of an " identification and reconciliation " process in Damascus , Syria , Monday , Dec. 30 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Omar Sanadiki ) <p> A member of Bashar Assad 's army , or a pro-government militia , talks to members of the security forces of the newly formed Syrian government as he takes part in an " identification and reconciliation " process in Damascus , Syria , Monday , Dec. 30 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Omar Sanadiki ) <p> Omar Sanadiki - stringer , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Members of Bashar Assad 's army , or pro-government militia , line up to register with the newly formed Syrian government as part of an " identification and reconciliation " process in Damascus , Syria , Monday , Dec. 30 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Omar Sanadiki ) <p> Matias Delacroix - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> People attend the funeral of 1st Sgt. Yuval Shoham , who was killed in a combat in the Gaza Strip , at Mount Herzl military cemetery in Jerusalem , Monday , Dec. 30 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Matias Delacroix ) <p> Abdel Kareem Hana - stringer , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Wafaa Nasrallah poses for a portrait with her 4-year-old son Ameer and her 2-year-old daughter Ayloul at her tent at a camp for displaced Palestinians in Deir al-Balah , Gaza Strip , Dec. 28 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Abdel Kareem Hana ) <p> Ghaith Alsayed - stringer , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Members of the security forces of the newly formed Syrian government stand in front of a damaged weapons and military infrastructure , following an explosion on Sunday , that the Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said was an Israeli airstrike that targeted a weapons depot belonging to Assad 's forces , in Adra , in the outskirts of Damascus , Syria , Monday , Dec. 30 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Ghaith Alsayed ) <p> Israel 's military said it intercepted a missile fired toward the country by Yemen 's Houthi rebels , setting off sirens late Monday in central areas including Tel Aviv . <p> The Houthis have been firing drones and missiles at Israel , as well as attacking shipping in the Red Sea corridor -- attacks they say wo n't stop until Israel agrees to a ceasefire in the Gaza Strip . <p> Israel 's war in Gaza has killed more than 45,500 people , over half of them women and children , according to the territory 's Health Ministry . Its count does not differentiate between combatants and civilians . The Health Ministry said Monday that Israeli airstrikes and bombardments had killed at least 27 people over the past day alone . Israel says its forces only target militants . <p> In Syria , Ukraine is pledging support for the new government that ousted Bashar Assad , who had been a key Russian ally in the Mideast . The Ukrainian foreign minister met with Syria 's de facto leader on Monday during a visit to Damascus . <p> Here 's the latest : <h> UN gives updates on humanitarian situation in Gaza <p> UNITED NATIONS -- The United Nations humanitarian agency said Monday that Israel allowed a U.N . and Palestinian Red Crescent team to deliver medical supplies , food and water to critical patients in northern Gaza a day earlier . <p> The patients had been forced by Israeli soldiers to leave Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza and had been taken to the Indonesian Hospital , which is not functioning , the U.N . said . Some of those patients were later detained by Israeli soldiers . <p> " Ten patients were evacuated from the ( Indonesian ) hospital , four of whom were arrested by Israeli forces at the checkpoint leaving the area , " the U.N . humanitarian office known as OCHA said . <p> " Seven patients along with 15 caregivers and health workers remain at the facility , which is severely damaged and has no ability to provide medical care , " it said . <p> The U.N . humanitarian office is warning that the Israeli onslaught on health care and humanitarian access in Gaza , combined with relentless strikes that kill and wound civilians daily , is dismantling the means for Palestinians to survive . <p> OCHA stressed that humanitarian access to Gaza remains hindered . <p> " In the past three days , over 60% of the 42 U.N.-coordinated movements were denied , interfered with or impeded on the ground " across all of Gaza , it said . <h> Israeli military says it intercepted a missile fired from Yemen <p> TEL AVIV , Israel -- Israel 's military said it intercepted a missile fired toward the country by Yemen 's Houthi rebels , setting off sirens late Monday in central Israel including Tel Aviv . There were no reports of injuries from Magen David Adom , Israel 's rescue service . <p> The Houthis have been firing drones and missiles at Israel as well as attacking shipping in the Red Sea corridor -- attacks they say wo n't stop until Israel agrees to a ceasefire in the Gaza Strip . <p> Israel has carried two waves of intense strikes in recent weeks in Yemen in response to the missile attacks . The latest launch raises the likelihood of further Israeli retaliation . <p> At a U.N . Security Council meeting on Monday , Israeli U.N . Ambassador Danny Danon vowed his country will respond decisively to Houthi attacks . <h> Wounded Palestinians describe harsh treatment by Israeli soldiers who expelled them from a hospital <p> GAZA CITY , Gaza Strip -- Wounded Palestinians who Israeli soldiers expelled from a northern Gaza hospital over the weekend described harrowing conditions where they were forced to strip down to their underwear in cold winter weather for hours . <p> " They surrounded the hospital at 4 a.m. and burned all the buildings around the hospital , " said Wissam Warsh , a 45-year-old father of five who spent almost a week at Kamal Adwan Hospital receiving treatment . He said soldiers made the hospital director , Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya , bring all the patients outside before detaining him . <p> " They told him over the loudspeaker that he had 10 minutes to evacuate them , and they began firing shells around the hospital as a pressure tactic , " Warsh said . He and other patients were recuperating at Ahli Hospital in Gaza City , where he spoke to The Associated Press from a hospital bed on Sunday . <p> Israel 's military says its troops entered the hospital because Hamas militants were using it as a base , and said over 240 militants were detained , including Abu Safiya . Hospital officials have denied those claims . <p> Other patients said the Israeli army refused to provide them with food or water . <p> " The most difficult thing was that we were in the cold and winter and we could not find clothes , in addition to the moments of insults . All the moments were difficult , " said Ramadan al-Aswad , who was a patient at the hospital . <h> Syria 's new rulers crack down on alleged Assad loyalist militias <p> ADRA , Syria -- Syria 's new government said it deployed dozens of soldiers in the Damascus suburb of Adra on Monday in search of alleged militiamen loyal to ousted President Bashar Assad , with military police vehicles seen transporting detainees . <p> " A security campaign was carried out in Adra town which led to the arrest of the militia leaders in the area , " said Abu Yaarub , a security official who did not give his full name in accordance with regulations . He added that five top militiamen were detained . <p> Clashes erupted last week in several cities across Syria between Assad supporters and the new government , which is led by Islamist rebels . <p> Since Assad 's fall , dozens of Syrians have been killed in acts of revenge , according to activists and monitors , the vast majority of them from the minority Alawite community , an offshoot of Shiite Islam to which Assad belongs . <p> By Leo Correa and Ghaith AlSayed . <h> Gaza hospital director 's family pleads for his release <p> JERUSALEM -- The family of a hospital director in northern Gaza is pleading with the international community and the Israeli military for his release , after soldiers detained Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya over the weekend . <p> Over the weekend , Israeli soldiers expelled staff and patients from Kamal Adwan Hospital , where it detained 240 people who it said were militants and took them for interrogation in Israel . The military said some militants attempted to pose as patients and hid in ambulances , without providing evidence . <p> Israel alleged that Hamas had been using the facility , which hospital officials have denied . <p> Israel 's latest military offensive in northern Gaza has largely isolated the area , with little medical or other aid allowed to reach hospitals there . <p> On Monday , the International Committee of the Red Cross said Israeli operations have " obliterated the health care system in northern Gaza , " noting that Kamal Adwan and Indonesian hospitals are now " completely inoperable . " <h> Ukraine 's foreign chief pledges support for a new Syria on a trip to Damascus <p> DAMASCUS , Syria -- Ukraine 's foreign minister met with Syria 's de facto leader Ahmad al-Sharaa in Damascus on Monday , days after Kyiv announced the delivery of a large shipment of wheat flour to the country following the ouster of Bashar Assad , Russia 's ally . <p> Syria is gradually shifting away from Iran and Russia and rekindling ties with Western and Gulf Arab nations that had opposed Assad 's rule , as well as Turkey , which backed opposition forces during the civil war . <p> President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said that Ukraine will send 500 tons of wheat flour to Syria through the U.N . World Food Program to help improve the country 's food security and economic crisis . About 90% of Syrians live in poverty , while over half do n't know where their next meal will come from , according to the U.N . <p> " The Ukrainian delegation held important talks with the Syrian administration , leader Ahmed Al-Sharaa and ministers . We support the Syrian people in overcoming decades of dictatorial rule and restoring stability , security , and normal life in Syria , " Zelenskyy wrote on X. <p> Foreign Minister Andrii Sybiha said he hopes " that a new Syria would become a country that respects international law . " He said Ukraine is ready to share its experience in gathering evidence and conducting investigations to hold war criminals accountable . <p> " The Russian and Assad regimes supported each other because their foundation is violence and torture , " he said . <h> Syria appoints first female interim Central Bank governor <p> BEIRUT -- Syria on Monday appointed its first female interim Central Bank governor , as the country navigates through recovering its battered economy after the downfall of the Assad dynasty 's rule . <p> Maysaa Sabreen is the second woman appointed in a leadership role under Ahmad al-Sharaa and his Islamist group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , which led Assad 's ouster in an offensive in early December . <p> Sabreen had served as the Central Bank 's first deputy governor . <p> She inherits a dire financial crisis following a decade of civil war , mismanagement and sanctions , which has led to the Syrian pound drastically losing its value against the U.S. dollar . The United Nations estimates that some 90% of Syrians live in poverty . <h> Turkey ready to export electricity to Syria and Lebanon <p> ANKARA , Turkey -- Turkey is prepared to export electricity to Syria and Lebanon to assist them in addressing power shortages , Turkey 's energy minister said , adding that a Turkish delegation was already in Damascus to evaluate Syria 's energy infrastructure . <p> Energy and Natural Resources Minister Alparslan Bayraktar also said Monday that the Turkish delegation included experts who would be assessing how Syria 's oil and natural gas could be used to improve the economy . <p> " We can see the picture a little more clearly after seeing the situation of the transmission network , " the state-run Anadolu Agency quoted Bayraktar as saying . <p> He said Syria 's electricity capacity had dropped significantly due to the civil war . <p> " The vast majority of the people meet their electricity needs through generators , " he said . " There is a serious need for electricity . " <p> Turkey has backed insurgents who ousted President Bashar Assad and has expressed readiness to support the new administration . <p> Copyright 2024 The Associated Press . All rights reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten or redistributed without permission . <h> Watch this discussion.Stop watching this discussion . <h> ( 0 ) comments <h> Welcome to the discussion . <p> Keep it Clean . Please avoid obscene , vulgar , lewd , racist or sexually-oriented language.PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.Do n't Threaten . Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.Be Truthful . Do n't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.Be Nice . No racism , sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.Be Proactive . Use the ' Report ' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us . We 'd love to hear eyewitness accounts , the history behind an article . 
@@119444450 <h> 60 Minutes goes inside the Vatican with Pope Francis <p> On this week 's 60 Minutes , correspondent Norah O'Donnell sat down with Pope Francis for a historic interview . The head of the Catholic Church for more than a decade , Francis had previously never spoken at length withan English-language American broadcast network . <p> In a wide-ranging conversation lasting more than an hour , O'Donnell spoke with the pontiff about such topics as the wars in Ukraine and in Israel and Gaza ; the Church 's handling of its sexual abuse scandals ; and the conservative backlash against the pope 's more progressive approach . <p> Born Jorge Mario Bergoglio in Argentina , Francis is the first Jesuit pope in papal history . O'Donnell interviewed him at Casa Santa Marta , the Vatican guest house where he has lived since his election in 2013 , rather than the papal apartments in the Apostolic Palace , where popes have historically resided . <p> O'Donnell said the pontiff was generous with his time and asked to greet the whole production crew before beginning the interview . <p> " I think what you see in the interview with Pope Francis is just how warm he is , engaging , " O'Donnell said . " He 's funny . He 's very thoughtful on a number of issues . " <p> One issue Francis stays informed on is the war in Gaza . There is one Catholic church in the Gaza Strip , the Holy Family Church , and the pontiff told O'Donnell he calls there every evening at 7 p.m. and speaks with the priest , Father Youssef Asaad . Some 600 Gazans -- Catholic and non-Catholic alike -- have taken shelter in the church compound , which is in the north of Gaza City . <p> " I listen , " the pope told O'Donnell through an interpreter . " The other day they were happy because they managed to eat some meat . The rest of the time they eat flour , things made of flour . Sometimes they go hungry . And they tell me things . And the other people there also speak to me at times . There is a lot of suffering . " <p> According to the Jesuit publication America , Francis in October sent $67,000 to the Gaza parish . Last weekend , the pontiff criticized Israel 's actions in the territory and called for a ceasefire , according to Al Jazeera . <p> CBS News ' O'Donnell , who was raised Catholic and attended the Jesuit-founded Georgetown University in Washington , D.C. , said her background was helpful in understanding the language , teachings , and doctrine of the Catholic Church , including those that are controversial or unpopular . <p> " The Catholic Church is at a crossroads , no doubt , because of the sex abuse scandal and because many people think that the Catholic Church is out of touch with modern times , " O'Donnell said . <p> During the interview , she asked Francis about the state of the Catholic Church and the fact that many Catholics in the U.S. do n't attend mass anymore regularly on Sunday . <p> " I would tell them that there is always a place , always , " Francis answered . " If in a certain parish , the priest is not accessible , I understand . Let them find another . But there is always a place in the Church for each and every one . " <p> During his papacy , Francis has tried to be more inclusive while not changing the doctrine of the church . Under his leadership , the church has welcomed same-sex couples and divorced Catholics , a departure from the traditional teachings of the church . The pontiff has also spoken out on issues such as climate change . <p> Because this more progressive approach has created a division with traditionalists , O'Donnell asked him how he saw his legacy . <p> " Church is the legacy , the Church not only through the pope , but through you , through every Christian , through everyone ... " Francis answered . " We all leave a legacy , and institutions leave a legacy . It 's a beautiful progression . I get on the bandwagon of the Church 's legacy for everybody . " <p> The video above was originally published on May 19 , 2024 . It was produced by Brit McCandless Farmer and edited by Scott Rosann . <p> Brit McCandless Farmer is a digital producer for 60 Minutes , where her work has been recognized by the Webby , Gracie , and Telly Awards . Previously , Brit worked at the CBS Weekend Evening News , CBS This Morning , CNN , and ABC News . 
@@119448352 <p> The film was recently shortlisted for the 97th Academy Awards in the Best International Feature Film category . Billed as " a powerful collection of short films by 22 Palestinian filmmakers living through war in present-day Gaza , " the film blends " animation , documentary , and fiction " with " stories that capture the steadfastness of the human spirit and enduring creativity that thrives even in the face of relentless devastation . " The film premiered at the 5th Amman International Film Festival in July and had its North American premiere at the 49th Toronto International Film Festival in September . <p> In an official statement , Moore noted , " These Palestinian filmmakers have accomplished a cinematic miracle . They have made a brilliant film in the midst of what Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch have now declared a genocide . The only weapons that Rashid and these 22 courageous Palestinian directors in Gaza have are their cameras and their creativity . No filmmaker , writer , or artist should ever have to tell the story of their own extermination . It 's an honor to stand in solidarity with them and help share their stories with the world . " <p> Director Rashid Masharawi expressed his gratitude and excitement , sharing in his own statement , " The team is both humbled and thrilled to be shortlisted . With Michael Moore 's involvement , we are even more empowered to portray the humanity and resilience of Palestinians , share their creativity with the world , and showcase the power of cinema as a force for justice and understanding . " <p> " Michael Moore 's passion for telling stories that challenge injustice aligns perfectly with our mission as a company . His expertise and commitment to social justice will be invaluable in helping us share these powerful , untold stories , and we are thrilled to have him join ' From Ground Zero , ' " added Hamza Ali , co-founder of Watermelon Pictures . <p> You can watch the trailer for " From Ground Zero " below . Watermelon Pictures will release the film in U.S. theaters on Friday , January 3. 
@@119448945 <h> Dr. Kenneth Stein , former Middle East Fellow of the Carter Center from 1982-2006 and Carter 's primary Middle East adviser until 1994 , gives a unique perspective on the former president 's legacy . <p> Egyptian President Anwar Sadat , US President Jimmy Carter , and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin at the signing ceremony of the Egyptian - Israeli Treaty , White House lawn , March 26 , 1979. ( photo credit : US GOVERNMENT ) <p> As the 39th president of the United States , James Earl Carter Jr . held office from 1977 to 1981 . Carter was the longest-living former United States president in American history . <p> Carter died in Plains , Georgia , on Sunday , December 29 , 2024 , surrounded by family , according to a statement from the Carter Center . He was in home hospice care since February 2023 after a series of short hospital stays , according to CNN . He was the only US President elected from Georgia . <p> Carter is widely remembered for several domestic and foreign policy accomplishments , but two benchmark changes in the Middle East mark his legacy . He stewarded the completion of the 1979 Egyptian-Israeli Peace Treaty , fostering peace between the two enemies of 30 years . His administration also engaged with Iran as the Shah fell , which led to the rise of the Iranian Islamic Republic , which held 444 Americans hostage for the last two years of his presidency . The impact of both events still reverberates through the Middle East . <p> In his post-presidency era , Carter became the most publicly engaged former president in US history . He founded the Atlanta-based Carter Center , which became his public forum for speaking out on contemporary policy issues . Carter wrote more than 30 books and hundreds of newspaper opinion pieces . For three decades , he lectured regularly at Emory University on topics ranging from judicial reform , arms control , and democracy in the Americas and the Middle East . In 2002 , he received the Nobel Prize for his humanitarian work in eradicating disease , monitoring elections , and promoting democracies . <p> Carter was born on October 1 , 1924 , in the rural town of Plains , Georgia . He was the first US president to be born in a hospital . His father was a farmer and businessman of very modest means . He went on to graduate from the US Naval Academy and wanted to become a submarine captain . He was denied that opportunity and diverted back to Plains in 1953 to lead the family 's faltering peanut-growing business , where he turned modest profits . President Jimmy Carter and Prime Minister Menachem Begin reciting Friday night kiddish at the Camp David Presidential retreat , Maryland , September 1978 ( credit : With permission of the Carter Presidential Library ) <h> Political background <p> In 1946 , he married Rosalyn Smith . They had four children together , 11 grandchildren , and 14 great-grandchildren . Roslyn Carter died in November 2023 after the two celebrated 77 years of marriage . <p> Carter became a Georgia State Senator in 1963 and Governor of the state from 1971 to 1975 . While out of office , Carter emerged on the national political scene in the immediate post-Watergate era after Gerald Ford pardoned Richard Nixon . He slowly captured people 's attention as an honest , moral voice that came from outside of the Washington establishment . <p> Carter used the campaign reforms and delegate selection process instituted before the 1976 election to capture the presidential nomination and win the election . He ran his 1976 campaign as a Washington outsider ; he did not lobby traditional Democratic bases for support and consequentially did n't feel beholden to them upon reaching office . <p> In the 1976 election , Carter very narrowly defeated Ford as the Republican incumbent , with 297 electoral votes to Ford 's 240 . By comparison , in the 1980 election , Carter lost to Ronald Reagan in a landslide , taking only 49 electoral votes to Reagan 's 489 electoral votes . <p> The Atlanta Jewish Times reported that Carter 's evangelical Christianity scared some Jews in 1976 . However , the paper , which was then called the Southern Israelite , endorsed Carter in a 1976 editorial . <p> " Knowing him personally for these many years , we have grown to admire his decency , his forthrightness , his innovativeness , his compassion and willingness to tackle the nitty-gritty of government , " the editorial read , according to a 2023 article . " He has demonstrated a scope and a vision which places him head and shoulders above many in contemporary politics . " <p> Carter 's rural background , with few connections beyond southern Georgia , helped shape his personality and his views of those in the political realm . More than any other characteristic , Carter developed a self-assertive view that the decisions he made were the correct ones and that others must follow his lead . According to Carter 's biographer , Peter Bourne , he " tended to view self-serving constituency groups as threatening to distract him from what he believed was the right thing for the country . In his dealings with Congress , he assumed that as reasonable people , if they understood his approach , he would earn their respect . " <p> Carter had a relentless drive for hard work and seeing tasks through to their conclusion . He was tenacious and industrious beyond most people 's comprehension . With an engineer 's mentality , Carter believed that problems had a potential solution if reason , logic , and will prevail . He disdained obstacles that were clearly in his decision-making path , be they politicians , systems of government , or historical hang-ups that he believed fossilized the thinking of foreign leaders . More than merely being annoyed , he disliked limitations on his prerogatives . He particularly disliked lobbying groups , and here he ran afoul of American Jews who were passionate about his administration not trodding upon Israeli decision-making . <p> In 1984 , Carter told an interviewer , " I did what I thought was best for the country , and I did n't worry much about the domestic political consequences ; I could overcome them . " Stuart Eizenstat , Carter 's Domestic Affairs advisor from his time as governor of Georgia , noted that there " was his overriding guiding principle of presidential governance to do the things that had to be done , in the belief that he was doing the right thing , he would ultimately be rewarded by the American people with another term . Prime Minister Menachem Begin replying to President Carter 's welcome speech during the White House lawn ceremony in Washington , July 19 , 1977. ( credit : ISRAEL GOVERNMENT PRESS OFFICE ) <p> " Carter felt that foreign policy in general , and the Middle East in particular , should be insulated from domestic politics , " Eizenstat stated . <p> While being a fiscal conservative , Carter was a liberal idealist . He did not have an overarching attitude about foreign affairs as Ford or Reagan had against the Soviet Union . With limited knowledge of foreign affairs , he relied very heavily on reading what he did not know and upon Zbigniew Brzezinski , the Columbia University Professor who became his National Security Adviser . <p> Brzezinski had an outsized influence on Carter 's foreign policy in general . He convinced Carter that the Arab-Israel conflict could be resolved comprehensively . He convinced Carter that rising oil prices or a potential oil embargo from Arab states could be avoided if the Palestinian quest for self-determination were satisfied and an Israeli withdrawal from Jerusalem was achieved . Both would greatly satisfy Saudi Arabian political objectives . Carter took on the challenge to satisfy Palestinian political interests because , for him , their quest for self-determination was a civil and human rights objective . <p> For his entire presidency , the Carter administration drove to achieve a comprehensive Arab-Israeli peace ; its efforts resulted in partial success with the 1978 Camp David negotiations between Egyptian President Anwar al-Sadat and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin . Seventeen days of negotiations resulted in the 1979 Egyptian-Israeli Peace Treaty as well as an outline for Palestinian self-government , which was realized in a limited area with the implementation of the 1993 PLO-Israeli Oslo Accords . <p> A bitter dispute arose between Carter and Israeli Prime Minister Begin over Israel 's continued insistence on building settlements in the West Bank and Gaza Strip , the areas that the Carter administration wanted reserved for the evolution of Palestinian self-determination . That dispute about Israel 's management of the territories remained a core component of the US-Israeli relationship throughout Carter 's lifetime . <p> Carter doggedly immersed himself in the nuances and the details of the negotiations unprecedented for any President in 20th-century American diplomatic history . Carter gained great respect for stewarding Begin and Sadat to a positive outcome . while Moshe Dayan , Begin 's Foreign Minister , had many extraordinary and frequent disagreements with Carter over content and procedures , Dayan respected Carter 's " diligence , dedication and resourcefulness to see agreements concluded . If not for Carter , we Israelis and Egyptians would not have arrived at a final agreement . " Carter contributed at least as much to securing Israel 's long-term existence as President Harry Truman did when he recognized Israel 's establishment in 1948 . <p> During his second two years of office , Carter was challenged by a whole host of issues that undermined the American public 's confidence in his performance in office . In mid-July 1979 , he gave a rousing speech to the nation chiding Americans for ' self-indulgence , consumption , and pursuing self-interest . ' The speech was received well , but within a month , he fired half of his cabinet , hoping to have more competent people in place as he headed to the 1980 election . According to his pollster Patrick Cadell , ' the speech was successful until he fired the cabinet and the whole tenor of things changed . ' Carter 's approval rating slumped . In the context of rising inflation , higher oil prices , and gas lines , the cabinet firings were seen by some as a sign of desperation led by presidential pessimism . <p> 1979 brought the Egyptian-Israeli Peace Treaty but also ushered in emerging turmoil in the Middle East . In addition to the rise of the Iranian Islamic Republic and the hatred it spewed against the United States , by the end of the year , the Soviets had invaded Afghanistan , and Americans were held hostage in Tehran . In April 1980 , a military effort to rescue the hostages failed . The economic numbers prior to the November 1980 election were not in Carter 's favor . <p> Hamilton Jordan , Carter 's chief policy adviser , said this about Carter 's 1980 loss , " We had a divided Democratic party , a president who was trying to take that party -- a liberal party -- in a moderate direction ; and second , we had bad economic circumstances . When we came into office , the price of a barrel of oil on the world market was eight dollars ; when we left , it was thirty-two . That drove our economy and created an economic set of problems that I think made President Carter 's reelection impossible . " Ken Stein , Jimmy Carter , Zbigniew Brzezinski , at the Middle East Consultation at Emory University in November 1983 ( credit : with permission of Emory University ) <h> Post- Presidency <p> As soon as Carter left office on Monday afternoon , January 20 , the Iranian government released the American-held hostages . Carter went to greet them , but their release did not do anything to remove the remorse shaken by their loss . When the Carters came home to Plains in 1981 , they were devastated by the smashing defeat at the hands of Governor Reagan . As they worked on their memoirs , Carter joined Emory University as a ' Distinguished University Professor . ' <p> Several miles from campus , he chose to build his presidential library in tandem with the Carter Center . Carter told several of us Emory professors , working to outline what the center would do , that he did not want its work to be passive , like writing position papers , but focused on topics that interested him where action engagements were possible . He chose arms control discussions , the pursuit of democracy in the Americas , the promotion of peace negotiations in the Middle East , and speaking out for human rights abroad . The center later added multiple healthcare issues , the eradication of disease , and election monitoring to its platform . His post-presidency life and the center were coterminous : he wanted to be proactive and make a difference in people 's lives . For the next quarter century , he also lectured monthly at Emory in a variety of classes , engaging with professors and students . His lectures to my Emory undergraduates on Arab - Israeli negotiations and the fall of the Shah were gripping and memorable . <p> As a young Emory Middle Eastern history professor , I met Carter in 1982 and later became the Executive Director of the Center and then his primary analyst on Middle Eastern matters . For the first years of the center 's operation , even before the Center building was opened in October 1986 , Middle Eastern topics and programs took up at least a third of all the programs . <p> When we wrote The Blood of Abraham ( 1984 ) together , I realized more and more how deeply angry he was at Menachem Begin for failing to move forward on Palestinian self-rule and for his persistence in building Jewish settlements in the territories . Carter was frustrated that he could not make the changes he believed were necessary outside of the Oval Office . At times , he would express to me and others that if American Jews had not abandoned him , he would have beaten Reagan . Carter placed a lot of blame for his loss directly on Begin 's shoulders . <p> It seems a few of his advisors did as well . Eizenstat wrote in a 2023 op-ed to the Forward that " No American President has done more to advance the security of the state of Israel , champion the rights of the Jewish people around the world , memorialize the victims of the Holocaust and honor its survivors , and embody the Jewish tradition of tikkun olam , repairing the world , than Jimmy Carter , a devout Southern Baptist from the tiny hamlet of Plains , Georgia . <p> " And none were less rewarded politically by the American Jewish community for doing so . " <p> In 1977 , Chief of Staff Jordan warned that he thought that American Jews were titled by Carter 's support of a Palestinian state . <p> " Although their fears and concerns about you and your attitude toward Israel might be unjustified , they do exist , " Jordan wrote , as quoted in the Atlanta Jewish Times . " In the absence of immediate action on our part , I fear that these tentative feelings in the Jewish community about you ( as relates to Israel ) might solidify , leaving us in an adversary posture with the American Jewish community . " <p> In March 1983 , March 1987 , and March 1990 , the Carters and a small staff traveled to Middle Eastern capitals and places of unique historical interest that the Carters wanted to visit . Every head of country we visited hosted us with five-star hospitality . We went to Mount Sinai , Assad 's hometown in Qardaha , landed on Masada via helicopter , engaged in a massive feast in the Saudi desert ( where the secret service agents ' misplaced Rosalyn ' for about four hours ) , and spent hours talking every day with leading politicians , heads of state , academics , American ambassadors , religious leaders , and every NGO imaginable . <p> Carter found learning from specialists without special pleadings a wonderful avenue for absorbing information quickly . Upon returning from each Middle Eastern trip , we hosted three-day meetings at Emory , where the Middle East was discussed with candor and detail with politicians and academics alike . Rarely did we have any problem in having people wanting to be part of these meetings ; Carter was a magnet for interest to all because the substance was debated . <p> Since I met Carter , we were always honest and direct with one another . Mrs. Carter understood that I was always being forthright in my analyses and our private conversations . In March 1983 in Cairo , I noted to Carter , at Roslyn 's precise suggestion , that " he could not be criticizing Ronald Reagan while in a foreign country . " <p> With audiences , he astonished listeners with his knowledge of a Middle Eastern topic and his ability to deliver a talk without a typed manuscript . Before he gave a presentation , he wrote a few words or phrases on letter-sized paper and folded it in thirds . As he stepped to a microphone , he took the paper from his inside jacket pocket and delivered an extemporaneous talk as if he had an entire prepared text in front of him . In casual conversations , his probing questions kept everyone engaged . <p> Into the 1980s and 1990s , Carter became more frequently vocal and angry about Israeli politicians not doing enough to aid the Palestinians . Carter continuously felt that he could mediate an end to the conflict . Half a dozen times , Carter remarked , " If only they ( the administration in office ) would give me a chance , I could finish mediating this conflict . " Each time , my response was the same : " Arafat is not Sadat , and the West Bank/Gaza Strip is not Sinai . " Carter still had not grasped that not all Middle Eastern leaders wanted to resolve the conflict . <p> Hundreds of times across the world , the Carter Center intervened to make a positive difference in people 's lives . It was fulfilling part of Carter 's objective . Two stand out for me . He had me write monthly letters to Egyptian President Husni Mubarak , asking that he free Pope Shenoudah , who had been placed under house arrest by Sadat . Dozens of letters later , the Egyptian Coptic Pope was released . In 1987 , with data provided by the ADL in New York City , Carter assisted me in having five Syrian Jews released from jail prior to Passover of 1987 . <p> By the early 1990s , the Carter Center and Carter had changed their engagements from being almost always a place to meet with some interventions abroad to becoming more assertive and doing so much more abroad . He traveled the world , sometimes with and sometimes without the permission of sitting presidents ; my notes from numerous Carter Fellow meetings reminded me of how and when he described telling US presidents and vice presidents that he was going to visit a country or individual but not really asking for permission . <p> Carter sometimes bordered on the violation of the Logan Act , which is supposed to criminalize unauthorized American citizens having contact with a foreign government . He met controversial leaders and many unsavory autocrats simply because he could . Election monitoring and eradication of disease had become central and successful interventions for the Carter Center . In 2002 , he was awarded the Nobel Prize for his humanitarian engagements . He spoke up and spoke out . His views were news , and no media outlet refused to interview him or publish his opinion pieces . <p> The last time Carter lectured in one of my Emory undergraduate classes was in October 2006 , just as his book Palestine:Peace Not Apartheid was released . Prior to giving that class presentation , he told me that he had another book on the Middle East about to be released ; he clearly made the point , " I did not want you reading it in advance . " Together , we crafted several versions of the 1984 book The Blood of Abraham . We had swapped chapters numerous times in that book 's preparation . He was not interested in my comments this time , knowing I would read them with a fine-tooth comb . <p> Carter , in writing Palestine : Peace Not Apartheid , wrote history in the way the way he wanted it to be . Some of his criticisms of Israel were certainly valid . Of all the former politicians in the world , Carter knew fact from fiction about Middle Eastern diplomacy ; Moshe Dayan had lauded him for his dedication and knowledge of detail . <p> Yet , Carter made false claims in the book . Some were invented . When I compared what he had written in the book with the notes I had taken in our meetings with Assad , the two accounts were fully incompatible . Besides using words and concepts to deftly put the onus on Israeli shoulders for non-diplomatic action , he asserted a singularly harsh statement about Jews . Egregiously , he wrote , " It is imperative that the general Arab community and all significant Palestinian groups make it clear that they will end the suicide bombings and other acts of terrorism when ( my emphasis ) international laws and the ultimate goals of the ' Roadmap ' for peace are accepted by Israel . " <p> Perhaps he did not mean what he had written , or maybe he failed to catch what a copy editor might have missed , but he included a sentence that simply legitimized the killing of Jews . I publicly resigned from my position at the Carter Center , followed by fourteen members of the Carter Center Advisory Board . <p> And then there was another side of Carter , some recollections wonderfully positive . Two positive vignettes stand out from the 1983 March trip to the region . In Egypt , when we exited from one of the tombs at Luxor , a group of young Israeli tourists greeted us with the song , " Heveynu Shalom Aleichem . " Hearing the translation , ' Peace be upon you , ' Carter teared up . <p> Then , at 25,000 feet in a private jet flying from Lebanon to Morocco on a Friday evening , four of us were sitting around the table , ready for dinner . Faye Dill , his most able and devoted secretary , Rosalyn , and me . Carter asked the steward to bring out the wine for dinner . With it , Carter produced a challah , which he had put on the plane when we had been in Israel several days earlier . As we sat around the table , ready for dinner , Carter asked if I would say the blessings over the candles and the wine and the challah , as I had done virtually every Friday night throughout my entire life . It was a lovely moment . <p> Peter Bourne , Stuart Eizenstat , Steve Hochman , and others who knew Carter over a lifetime have pointed to the same recurring personality trait . Carter was going to do , say , or write what he thought was right , giving little concern for fall-out . He impressed many with his dedication to a cause , commitment to beliefs held , and curiosity . <p> As the first US President to call for a Palestinian homeland and work for it diligently while in office and afterward , he forever placed the quest for Palestinian political rights as an objective for future American presidents . His prolonged involvement in Arab - Israeli negotiations created an expectation that presidential engagement is absolutely essential for future agreements to be negotiated and reached between Arabs and Israelis . For forty-plus years , he used the post-presidency as an extended second presidential term that he fervently believed he deserved but wrongfully lost . Among former US presidents , Carter set a standard for public commentary and engagement in foreign affairs that likely will never be matched . <p> Kenneth Stein is Professor Emeritus of Middle Eastern History and Political Science at Emory University . He worked at the Carter Center and with President Carter during his post-presidency. 
@@119448951 <h> Some of these films will open eventually at theaters , but many can only be seen at the festival , and there really is something special about watching movies in this joyous atmosphere . <p> The Haifa International Film Festival will celebrate its 40th anniversary starting on December 31 and running until January 11 with a huge celebration of cinema at the Haifa Cinematheque and many other theaters around the city . <p> The festival is traditionally held during the Sukkot holiday , but this year it was delayed due to the war . However , the always enjoyable event will be even more festive than usual this year because it coincides with the winter holiday season and will include a special day of opening events , starting in the afternoon and going until the wee hours , including parties featuring hot wine and live music . <p> The opening will start with the lighting of Hanukkah candles , which will be followed by several special screenings , including a sing-along version of the popular musical Wicked ; Better Man , a docudrama about Robbie Williams ; and , late in the evening , Tim Burton 's The Nightmare Before Christmas , where the audience is encouraged to come in costume , to be followed by an alternative rock music party . <p> There will also be a screening of the much-awaited film Saturday Night , about the early days of the legendary Saturday Night Live comedy show , which stars Gabriel LaBelle of The Fabelmans as the show 's producer , Lorne Michaels . For the full program of the festival , including the opening events , and to buy tickets , go to the festival website at haifaff.co.il . <p> This year 's guest of honor is Michel Hazanavicius , the Oscar-winning director of The Artist , whose latest film , the animated The Most Precious of Cargoes , will be shown . The movie , which was in the main competition of the Cannes Film Festival , is set during the Holocaust and tells the story of a rural couple who adopt a Jewish foundling . NAMUR , BELGIUM - SEPTEMBER 30 : Film Director Michel Hazanavicius poses for a portrait shoot on September 30 , 2024 in Namur , Belgium . ( credit : Vlad Vdk/Contour by Getty Images ) <p> The The official official opening opening film film , , The The Seed Seed of of the the Sacred Sacred Fig Fig , by Iranian dissident director Mohammad Rasoulof , will be shown on January 2 . It 's a psychological thriller about how a Tehran judge begins to suspect his wife and daughters are involved in the protest movement . <p> Rasoulof was pressured by the government of Iran to withdraw it from the Cannes Film Festival , where it won five awards , including the Special Jury Prize . When he refused to comply , he was arrested and sentenced to a lengthy prison term as well as flogging , but he managed to flee the country and now lives in Europe . <p> The closing night film will be Nir Bergman 's Pink Lady , which won the Best Director award at the Tallinn Black Nights Film Festival last month . It tells the story of an ultra-Orthodox couple who are blackmailed by someone who threatens to reveal that the husband is gay . <p> THIS YEAR , the feature films in the Israeli competition will include Life Without Credit , the latest movie by Tom Shoval , which tells the story of a turbulent woman searching for a relative who is her legal guardian . Shoval is best known for Youth , which starred David Cunio , an actor still held hostage in Gaza . <p> Anat Malz 's Real Estate is about a couple who discover some truths about their relationship when they are forced to leave their beloved Tel Aviv and search for an apartment in Haifa . <p> Lee Gilat is known for writing Tehran , and her latest feature film is Girls Like Us , a love story set in an institution for at-risk youth . <p> Sophie Artus 's Halisa stars Noa Koler ( Checkout ) as a childless nurse who becomes close to a distressed young mother . <p> Veronica Kedar 's Day Trippers tells the story of a rebellious British teen and a runaway Israeli bride who meet up in Amsterdam and form an unlikely bond . <p> The Israeli documentaries include Outsider . Freud by Yair Qedar , who has made documentaries about great writers and cultural icons including Amos Oz , A. B. Yehoshua , and Spinoza . His Freud documentary is an inventive film , both narratively and visually , that highlights Freud 's background and breakthroughs . <p> Kafka 's Last Trial by Eliran Peled tells the story of the tortuous journey of Franz Kafka 's manuscripts , which ends in a trial to which the adjective Kafkaesque applies . <p> Nitsan Tal 's My Missing Screw follows the journey of a man with mental health issues who travels the world to try to reinvent himself . <p> Israeli director Savi Gabizon 's English remake of his Israeli film Longing , which stars Richard Gere as a man who learns late in life that he had a son , will be shown at the festival . <p> Eran Riklis 's Reading Lolita in Tehran is an adaptation of the bestselling memoir about a group of women who gather in that city to read literature forbidden by the regime . <p> The international competitions include the Golden Anchor Competition and the Carmel International Competition . Among the highly anticipated international films will be Walter Salles 's I 'm Still Here , about a Brazilian family in turmoil in the 1970s when the father disappears after he is interrogated by the regime . The film stars Fernanda Montenegro , who was in Salles 's acclaimed 1998 film , Central Station . <p> Two dramas tell the story of French icons . Being Maria , directed by Jessica Palud , is about Maria Schneider and the making of Last Tango in Paris , with Matt Dillon as Marlon Brando . Monsieur Aznavour stars Tahar Rahim as the great French-Armenian crooner whose family hid Jews during the Holocaust . <p> Gia Coppola is the granddaughter of Francis Ford Coppola , so it 's no surprise that she is a director , and her latest film , The Last Showgirl , will have its Israeli premiere in the festival . It stars Pamela Anderson as a Las Vegas showgirl who tries to repair her relationship with her daughter after the show she is in closes . <p> Other international films will include Edward Berger 's The Conclave , starring Ralph Fiennes and Stanley Tucci , about the selection of a new pope ; Jesse Eisenberg 's A Real Pain , about cousins visiting Warsaw to honor the memory of their late grandmother ; September 5 , which tells the fact-based story of how an American sports broadcasting team ended up covering the massacre of Israeli athletes by Palestinian terrorists at the 1972 Munich Olympics ; and The Brutalist , by Brady Corbet , which stars Adrien Brody as a pioneering Hungarian architect . <p> Among the international documentaries will be Super/Man : The Christopher Reeve Story ; Miyazaki , Spirit of Nature ; and Riefenstahl , a new look at what Hitler 's favorite filmmaker really knew about the Holocaust . <p> The Haifa Classics section includes a tribute to the Taviani brothers , with several of their films , among them Padre Padrone and The Night of the Shooting Stars . <p> If you would like to take your children to some films you wo n't find at the multiplex , you can see a number of recent kids ' movies , most of them animated , including Totto-Chan : The Little Girl at the Window by Shinnosuke Yakuwa , the story of a lively child at a new school as Japan descends into war . <p> There will also be a section on Culinary Cinema and recent animated movies for older audiences . <p> Some of these films will open eventually at theaters , but many can only be seen at the festival , and there really is something special about watching movies in this joyous atmosphere . <p> The festival 's artistic director is Yaron Shamir , the director of the Haifa Cinematheque. 
@@119473655 <p> Funeral services in Georgia and in Washington , D.C. , have been announced for former President Jimmy Carter . A North Carolina county struggling to recover from Hurricane Helene is dealt another blow . And a warning against giving raw food to cats over a bird flu risk . <p> Here 's what to know today . <h> Funeral services announced for Jimmy Carter <p> Former President Jimmy Carter 's official state funeral is set for Thursday , Jan. 9 . President Joe Biden declared it a national day of mourning and ordered federal offices be closed . The Supreme Court also announced it would be closed , and the New York Stock Exchange will halt close trading . <p> The state funeral will be held at 10 a.m. at the National Cathedral . Biden , who had a close friendship with Carter for many decades , is expected to deliver a eulogy . <p> This is Morning Rundown , a weekday newsletter to start your day . Sign up here to get it in your inbox . <p> Services for Carter begin this Saturday , and will include a brief pause at the family farm in Plains , Georgia , where he grew up , as well as a stop at the Georgia State Capitol for a moment of silence . Carter will lie in repose at the Carter Presidential Center in Atlanta until Jan. 7 for mourners to pay their respects . <p> Then , his remains will be taken to Washington , D.C. , where he will lie in state until Jan. 9 . After the state funeral , Carter will make his final journey back to Georgia for a private funeral service at Maranatha Baptist Church , where he taught Sunday school for many years , and a private interment at the Carter family home . The public is invited to line the route to his final resting place . <p> Carter , the 39th U.S. president and the first to reach the age of 100 , died on Sunday . <h> New laws taking effect in 2025 <p> When the new year begins tomorrow , a slew of new laws will take effect , touching on issues like artificial intelligence and personal data . For example : <p> ? Illinois and California are placing guardrails on how AI can be used , with California 's laws tackling how the technology is used in Hollywood . <p> ? Eight states -- Delaware , Iowa , Nebraska , New Hampshire , New Jersey , Maryland , Minnesota and Tennessee -- will have new privacy laws take effect , dealing with how businesses handle your personal data . Maryland 's is the most restrictive of the new laws , prohibiting the sale of sensitive data and limiting businesses to collect personal data only when it is " reasonably necessary . " <p> ? And a new rule taking effect in May will require anyone 18 or older to carry a Real ID-compliant driver 's license and identification card . If this law sounds familiar , it 's because the deadline for enforcement has been pushed back multiple times because of a lack of full state compliance and the Covid pandemic . <p> Other laws about college admissions and gender transition care for minors are also slated to take effect . Readmore about the changes in store for the new year . <h> More politics news : <p> The U.S. Treasury Department said it was hacked by a state-sponsored Chinese operation in what it called " a major incident . " <h> North Carolina county hit hard by Helene suffers another blow <p> Bridges for Avery / via Facebook <p> Nearly a dozen foot bridges washed away last weekend in Avery County , North Carolina , where Hurricane Helene flattened the landscape earlier this year . More than three inches of rain swept away the pedestrian bridges built by volunteers to provide emergency access after Helene swept away bridges that once carried vehicles over rivers , county manager Phillip Barrier said . Now , more than 20 residents have been left unreachable in the rural , mountainous county with a population of around 18,000 . <p> Recovery in Avery County from Hurricane Helene since late September has been " super slow , " Barrier said . Many displaced residents are either staying in hotels , with family or in campers on their properties . <h> Experts caution against raw pet food over bird flu risk <p> A cat 's death in Oregon from a product contaminated by bird flu has experts and some public health officials warning against giving raw foods to pets . The FDA is currently investigating cases of cats with bird flu in several Western states , and experts fear there have been more bird flu deaths among cats that have gone undetected . <p> The problem with feeding raw milk and meat to pets is that the foods can be contaminated with bacteria and viruses , said Dr. Jane Sykes , a professor of small animal internal medicine at the University of California-Davis School of Veterinary Medicine . Commercial pet foods , by comparison , have been processed so that viruses and bacteria are eliminated from the foods . <p> There were no bird flu cases among cats in the U.S. until 2022 , experts said . And by late this year " there had been over 25 cases reported , " Sykes said . Here 's what to know about bird flu symptoms and how to keep cats safe . <h> Read All About It <p> Five people -- one friend and four hotel employees -- have been charged in connection to One Direction member Liam Payne 's fatal fall from a Buenos Aires hotel in October . <p> Concerns are growing for the safety of a prominent hospital director in Gaza after the Israel Defense Forces took him into custody and forced the closure of one of the last functioning medical facilities in the enclave . <p> Ohio State University 's Ryan Day is one of college football 's most successful coaches , but his inability to rally his team to a win against its biggest rival has fans unhappy . <h> Year in Review : The craziest Congress in recent memory <p> Frank Thorp V / NBC News <p> Kevin McCarthy still feels anger toward " sociopath " former Rep. Matt Gaetz for ousting him as House speaker . Gaetz says he " knew how to play the hand that was dealt . " <p> Speaker Mike Johnson defends his work with President Joe Biden and Democrats . <p> And Rep. Jamaal Bowman , the New York Democrat who was ousted in the most expensive House primary in history , said he only has one regret during his four years in Washington . <p> The power struggles of the 118th year in Congress will reverberate for years to come.Take a look back , through photos and interviews . <h> NBC Select : Online Shopping , Simplified ? <p> One way to burn calories without having to deal with hectic parking lots or gym memberships ? An elliptical machine . Experts weigh in on the top-rated models and what to look for when shopping for a new machine . <p> Sign up to The Selection newsletter for hands-on product reviews , expert shopping tips and a look at the best deals and sales each week . <p> Thanks for reading today 's Morning Rundown . Today 's newsletter was curated for you by Elizabeth Robinson . If you 're a fan , please send a link to your family and friends . They can sign up here . 
@@119475442 <h> Know their names <p> As the conflict in Gaza enters its 15th month , more than 45,400 people have been killed and 108,000 injured . The war has been particularly marked by the challenges of reporting from a warzone in effect sealed off to reporters from outside Gaza , where reporting has been impossible at times -- and far too often , deadly . <p> Despite these challenges , Palestinian journalists have continued to report the horrors of the war , serving as the world 's eyes and ears during one of the deadliest conflicts of the 21st century . <p> From October 7 , 2023 , to December 25 , 2024 , at least 217 journalists and media workers had been killed in Gaza . Five more were killed on December 26 when an Israeli air strike targeted a news van near al-Awda Hospital . These most recent killings of journalists underscore the perilous environment in which media professionals are operating in Gaza . Simply put , this has been the worst conflict for journalists -- ever . <p> The following list is a tribute to the journalists and media workers who have been killed in Gaza since October 7 , 2023 , arranged by the dates of their deaths . <h> Hisham 's last message to the world <p> Hisham Al-Nawajah , a 27-year-old reporter for the Khabar News Agency , was killed on October 9 , 2023 , when Israeli warplanes targeted an area in the Remal district of western Gaza , home to several media outlets . He was killed while covering the forced evacuation of the " Haji " building , located on Institutions Street in Gaza governorate , which was destroyed in the air strike . <p> Hisham , known for his courage and dedication to reporting amid the escalating violence , had been documenting the intensifying conflict when the building was hit . <p> According to the Committee to Protect Journalists ( CPJ ) , the war in Gaza has killed more journalists in a year than any other conflict the organisation has recorded . <h> Ayat 's last message to the world <p> Ayat Khadoura , a freelance journalist and podcast presenter , was killed along with several family members in an Israeli air strike that targeted her home in Beit Lahiya in northern Gaza . Khadoura had been sharing videos on social media to document the dire situation in Gaza . <p> One of her most poignant posts was a video shared on November 6 , 2023 , which she called My Last Message to the World . In the video , she said , " We had big dreams , but our dream now is to be killed in one piece so they know who we are . " <p> The CPJ said the killings of journalists and the systematic arrests and detentions of media workers in Gaza and the occupied West Bank since October 7 , 2023 , have created a news void that could cause potential war crimes to go undocumented . <h> Jabr 's last message to the world <p> Jabr Abu Hadrous , a reporter for the Quds al-Youm broadcaster , was killed in an Israeli air strike on his home in the Nuseirat refugee camp in northern Gaza in December 2023 . He died with seven members of his family . <p> Jabr , 36 , was described by colleagues as a brave and driven journalist , whose personal connection to the community he served made his reporting all the more poignant . <h> Ismail 's last message to the world <p> Al Jazeera Arabic journalist Ismail Al-Ghoul and his cameraman Rami al-Rifi were killed in an Israeli air attack on July 31 , 2024 . The reporters were killed when their car was hit in the Shati refugee camp , west of Gaza City , according to initial information . <p> Ismail and Rami were wearing media vests , and there were identifying signs on their car when they were attacked . <p> Al Jazeera 's Anas Al-Sharif was at the hospital where the bodies of his two colleagues were brought . <p> " Ismail was conveying the suffering of the displaced Palestinians and the suffering of the wounded and the massacres committed by the Israeli occupation against the innocent people in Gaza , " he said . <p> " The feeling -- no words can describe what happened . " <p> Al-Ghoul is among several Al Jazeera journalists who have lost their lives covering the war . Several more have lost family members to Israeli strikes . The tragedy of Wael Dahdouh , Al Jazeera 's bureau chief in Gaza City , particularly highlights the devastation many Palestinian journalists have faced doing their duty while having to report killings far too close to home . <p> Just weeks after the start of the war , Dahdouh was informed while live on air that an Israeli air attack on the Nuseirat refugee camp had killed his wife , seven-year-old daughter and 15-year-old son along with other family members . <p> Another son , Hamza , who was also an Al Jazeera reporter , was killed in a drone attack in January 2024 . <p> In all , at least 192 male and 25 female journalists had been killed by December 25 . <p> Half of the female journalists were from Gaza City while 64 percent of all media workers killed were from Gaza City and North Gaza . <p> About 36 percent of the journalists killed so far have been from Deir el-Balah in central Gaza and Khan Younis and Rafah in the south . <p> More than half ( 52 percent ) of the journalists and media workers killed lost their lives during the first three months of the conflict from October to December 2023 . October 2023 was the deadliest month with 44 journalists and media workers killed , accounting for 20 percent of the total deaths . <p> But the killings have continued ever since -- including the latest on December 26 , in which five journalists were killed all at once , highlighting the ongoing dangers faced by media professionals documenting the crisis . <p> Eighty percent of the journalists and media workers killed were between the ages of 20 and 40 , a stark statistic that captures the young age of those who risk their lives to document the conflict . Many of them were in the prime of their careers . <p> They were reporters and writers , photographers and video directors , analysts and editors , sound engineers and voiceover artists , and even founders of media outlets . <p> Their stories remind us of the heavy price paid by those who strive to document humanity 's darkest moments . Here are some more of their last messages to the world . 
@@119475446 <h> Gaza hospitals on ' brink of total collapse ' from Israel attacks : UN <p> A view of the destruction following an Israeli attack on the courtyard of Kamal Adwan Hospital in Beit Lahiya Khalil Ramzi Alkahlut/Anadolu <p> Published On 31 Dec 202431 Dec 2024 <p> A UN report says Israel 's claims that Gaza hospitals are being used for military purposes by Palestinian armed groups are " vague " amid continuing Israeli attacks on health facilities protected under international law . <p> The report -- released on Tuesday by the UN human rights office -- said Israeli strikes targeting hospitals and their surroundings in the Gaza Strip have pushed the territory 's healthcare system " to the brink of total collapse with catastrophic effect on Palestinians ' access to health and medical care " . <p> The 23-page report looked at the period from October 7 , 2023 , to June 30 , 2024 . <p> During this time there were at least 136 attacks on 27 hospitals and 12 other medical facilities , inflicting significant casualties among doctors , nurses , medics , and other civilians while causing significant damage to , if not the complete destruction of , civilian infrastructure . <h> ' A death trap ' <p> The report highlighted that international humanitarian law explicitly protects medical personnel and hospitals as long as they do not engage in or are not used to commit acts harmful to the enemy outside their humanitarian function . <p> " Insufficient information has so far been made publicly available to substantiate these allegations , which have remained vague and broad , and in some cases appear contradicted by publicly available information , " the UN report said . <p> The deliberate destruction of healthcare facilities " may amount to a form of collective punishment , which would also constitute a war crime " , it added . <p> Advertisement <p> " The one sanctuary where Palestinians should have felt safe in fact became a death trap , " UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Volker Turk said . " The protection of hospitals during warfare is paramount and must be respected by all sides at all times . " <p> Israel has in recent days escalated attacks on the besieged Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza , detaining its director . <p> The World Health Organization said the Kamal Adwan Hospital 's remaining 15 critical patients , 50 caregivers , and 20 health workers were transferred on Friday to the nearby Indonesian Hospital , which it described as " destroyed and non-functional " . <p> Hamas dismissed Israel 's assertion its members operated from the hospital throughout the 15-month Gaza war , saying no fighters had been there . <p> Former Israeli diplomat Alon Pinkas told Al Jazeera even if his country did provide evidence to back up claims that Hamas used medical facilities for military operations , it would not justify attacking hospitals . <p> " There is a discrepancy between the big headlines ... and the failure to come up with the evidence to support this , " he said . <p> While the Israeli military said more than 250 Hamas fighters were arrested at Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza , Pinkas noted even if that is true , it still " does not justify rendering the hospital inoperative " . <h> Transparent investigation <p> The report called for credible , independent investigations into the health facility attacks , emphasising the " limitations " of Israel 's justice system in addressing the actions of its armed forces . <p> Advertisement <p> " It is essential that there be independent , thorough and transparent investigations of all of these incidents , and full accountability for all violations of international humanitarian and human rights law which have taken place , " said Turk . <p> He also urged that " all medical workers arbitrarily detained must be immediately released " . <p> " It must also be a priority for Israel , as the occupying power , to ensure and facilitate access to adequate healthcare for the Palestinian population , " Turk said . <p> Israel 's war on Gaza has killed more than 45,500 people in the besieged territory , mostly civilians , according to the Health Ministry . 
@@119475449 <h> Yemen 's Houthis defiant after new US strikes <p> CENTCOM says it struck ' Houthi targets ' in Sanaa and coastal locations in Yemen , days after Israel targeted the country . <p> Last week , a wave of Israeli air attacks hit Sanaa airport , as well as Yemen 's port city of Hodeidah File : Khaled Abdullah/Reuters <p> Published On 31 Dec 202431 Dec 2024 <p> The spokesperson of Yemen 's Houthi rebels Mohammed Abdulsalam said that his country would continue to defend itself after several US strikes targeted facilities in the capital Sanaa . <p> " The US aggression on Yemen is a blatant violation of the sovereignty of an independent state , and blatant support for Israel to encourage it to continue its crimes of genocide against the people of Gaza , " said Abdulsalam on Tuesday , after strikes were conducted by the US for a second day . <p> The US military said that it carried out attacks against targets in the Houthi-controlled capital Sanaa and coastal locations in Yemen on both Monday and Tuesday . <p> " On December 30 and 31 , US Navy ships and aircraft targeted a Houthi command and control facility and advanced conventional weapon ( ACW ) production and storage facilities that included missiles and uncrewed aerial vehicles ( UAV ) , " the US military 's Central Command ( CENTCOM ) said in a post on X. <p> The Houthi-run Al Masirah TV reported that a total of 12 air raids were launched by US military jets , targeting two separate districts in Sanaa . <p> The Iran-allied group in Yemen has been launching attacks on commercial shipping in the Red Sea for more than a year in an ostensible effort to enforce a naval blockade on Israel , saying they are acting in solidarity with Palestinians being attacked as part of Israel 's yearlong deadly war in Gaza . <p> Last week , a wave of Israeli air attacks hit Yemen 's main airport , killing at least three people . Separate attacks on the country 's key port city of Hodeidah killed another three people . <p> The attack on Sanaa 's airport came just as the World Health Organization 's director-general , Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus , said he was about to board a flight there . <p> The Houthis pledged to respond swiftly to the attack and meet " escalation with escalation " . <p> The Houthis took control of Yemen 's capital Sanaa in 2014 , and have fought a war against forces backed by a Saudi-led coalition , including the Yemeni government , in the years since . <h> ' The support to Gaza continues ' <p> Israel 's ambassador to the United Nations Danny Danon on Monday issued what he called a final warning to the Houthis to halt missile attacks on Israel . <p> Danon also warned Tehran that Israel has the ability to strike any target in the Middle East , including in Iran . He added that Israel would not tolerate attacks by Iranian proxies . <p> But hours later , the Israeli military announced that it had intercepted a missile fired from Yemen , prompting sirens to sound across the country . <p> Advertisement <p> The Houthis targeted Ben Gurion Airport near Tel Aviv and a power station south of Jerusalem using a hypersonic ballistic missile and a Zulfiqar ballistic missile , respectively , the group 's military spokesperson Yahya Saree said on Tuesday . <p> The Houthis would not end attacks on Israel , Mohammed Ali al-Houthi , the head of the Houthis ' supreme revolutionary committee , said after the Israeli military announced the missile interception . <p> " The pounding of the entity Israel continues and the support to Gaza continues , " he posted on X. <p> Danon , in addressing the UN Security Council , said that Israel would not tolerate further Houthi attacks . <p> " To the Houthis , perhaps you have not been paying attention to what has happened to the Middle East over the past year , " he said . <p> " Well , allow me to remind you what has happened to Hamas , to Hezbollah , to Assad , to all those who have attempted to destroy us . Let this be your final warning . This is not a threat . It is a promise . You will share the same miserable fate , " Danon said . <p> Last week , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu warned the Houthis that Israel was " just getting started " following the strikes in Yemen , including on Sanaa airport , ports on the country 's west coast as well as two power plants . <p> Israel 's ongoing assault on the besieged and bombarded Gaza Strip , where a famine is looming , has so far killed more than 45,000 people and has been described as a genocide by leading rights groups . 
@@119475450 <p> Palestinians in Gaza are entering the new year as defenceless and beleaguered as the last . <p> Israel 's war on the enclave continued into 2024 , killing 23,842 people and wounding 51,925 during this year alone , driving the grisly official death toll to 46,376 , according to the Gaza Health Ministry . <p> Israel has used siege and starve tactics , as well as scorched earth bombardment , drawing accusations that it is committing genocide , from rights groups and United Nations legal bodies . <p> Shaghnoubi , who has six boys and two girls , said that her children are struggling to survive in the cold and that her small tent does not protect the family from the pouring rain . <p> " My children sleep on soaked bedding at night , " she told Al Jazeera . <p> Shereen Abu Nida , 40 , also said that she and her four children are coping with hardship due to the terrible living conditions brought on by the war . Worst still , her husband was abducted by Israeli forces about a year ago , leaving her to care for her children all alone . <p> Advertisement <p> " I have had to go through this whole year alone , all by myself , " she said , her voice quivering . <p> Musa Ali Muhammad al-Maghribi , 52 , added that his family have little hope for the future . <p> He said his nine children are ill and he ca n't find medication , nor is there enough food or clean water for his family , an ordeal that most of Gaza 's 2.3 million people face . <p> " Israel has destroyed us , " he told Al Jazeera . " Every day , we just hope to die . " <h> Netanyahu extends the fight <p> Efforts at mediating some form of ceasefire , which have been continuing throughout much of the conflict , have floundered in the face of what many , including United States President Joe Biden in June , have slammed as political self-interest on the part of the Israeli prime minister . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu attends the fifth day of testimony in his trial on corruption charges at the district court in Tel Aviv , Israel , on Monday , December 23 , 2024 Debbie Hill/Pool Photo via AP <p> Accusations of exploiting the war on Gaza for personal gain have centred upon Netanyahu 's attempts to deflect from his ongoing trial on charges of bribery , fraud and breach of public trust , which he denies . <p> In addition , the prime minister 's corruption trial suggests that Netanyahu is seeking to prolong the war to distract from accusations of negligence or incompetence during the Hamas-led attack of October 7 2023 , which killed 1,139 Israelis . <p> Advertisement <p> Charges of opportunism have come from both within Netanyahu 's right-wing cabinet , as well as the street , where tens of thousands of people continue to rally in support of a deal that would see the captives taken during the Hamas-led attack released . <h> International impotence <p> The international community has failed to halt -- or mitigate -- the carnage in Gaza largely due to the US 's unqualified political and military support for Israel 's war on Gaza . <p> Similar international action has also been taken against both the Hamas and Israeli leadership . In November , the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) issued arrest warrants for Netanyahu and former Defence Minister Yoav Gallant , as well as Hamas leader Mohammed Deif . <p> In October , Israel defied international pressure and voted to ban the UN 's Relief and Works Agency ( UNRWA ) , widely acknowledged as one of Gaza 's principal lifelines . When the ban comes into effect in late January of next year , Gaza will lose its principal aid agency and with it , much of the network that distributes food , medicine and the infrastructure needed to sustain life . 
@@119475456 <h> Surviving 2024 in Gaza <p> A Palestinian walks among the rubble of buildings destroyed by the Israeli army in Beit Lahiya in the northern Gaza Strip on June 12 , 2024 Mahmoud Issa/Reuters <p> When I was a child , I dreamed of travelling the world , exploring new cultures and learning new things . I yearned for a journey of discovery . Living in Gaza felt like sitting in the stands , watching the world 's achievements -- its development , progress and technological marvels -- unfold from afar without being able to participate . <p> It was both a sanctuary and a cage -- its regular rhythm comforting yet repetitive , its streets too familiar , its horizons too narrow for the aspirations I carried within me . I cherished its warmth and closeness , but the pull of life beyond its borders was irresistible . I was ready to leave the moment an opportunity came my way . <p> This year , I did embark on a journey , but not the one that I had dreamed of . Instead of a trip of carefree exploration abroad , I found myself on a journey navigating a genocidal war and a struggle for survival within the narrow strip of Palestinian land I call home . Along the way , I learned a lot -- about myself and my inner world . <p> The " journey " began in January . While most people welcomed the new year under skies filled with fireworks , songs and joy , my sky delivered evacuation orders . Crumpled papers fell on us carrying a message written in Arabic : " Nuseirat camp is too dangerous . Move south for your safety . " <p> Advertisement <p> I never thought leaving home would be that difficult . I had always thought of myself as someone who did not have a strong connection to home or homeland . But I was wrong . Leaving felt like abandoning a part of my soul . <p> My family and I made our way to Rafah to stay with my aunt who gave us a warm welcome . Even though I felt some comfort there , in my mind , all I could think about was my home . So I greeted February , the " month of love " , feeling incredibly homesick and realising just how much I loved the house I had grown up in . <p> In mid-February , the Israeli military withdrew from Nuseirat , and we hurried back home . It was one of the best moments of the war -- and of my entire life -- to find my home still intact . Its front door was broken , our belongings were stolen and rubble from the bombing of our neighbour 's home had crashed inside . But it was still standing . <p> Although destruction surrounded us , the rubble of our neighbourhood still felt warmer than any safe place elsewhere in the world would have . For the first time in my life , I -- the grandson of refugees -- felt I belonged somewhere . My soul , my identity -- they all belonged here . <p> The joy of being back home was soon overshadowed by the reality of war . March came and brought in the holy month . For Muslims , Ramadan is a time of spiritual peace , prayer and togetherness . But this year , it was filled with loss , separation and deprivation . There were no shared meals or family gatherings , no mosques to pray in -- only their rubble . <p> Instead of tranquillity , we experienced relentless bombardment and terror . The bombs fell without warning , each explosion shattering any sense of safety we may have had . We were being punished , treated as " human animals " -- as their defence minister had said -- for an unknown crime . <p> Advertisement <p> In April , Eid al-Fitr came and went , stripped of the joy that defines this cherished Muslim holiday . There was no children 's laughter to wake us in the morning , no bustling preparations or decorations to welcome guests . Death was the only visitor in Palestinian homes in Gaza . <p> Then May rolled in and with it an opportunity I had been waiting for my whole life . My family managed to gather enough money to pay an Egyptian company to help me leave Gaza . The process was riddled with uncertainty . There were rumours of scams , bribes and rejections . <p> The thought of escaping the relentless horror around me was intoxicating . I wanted freedom , but it came at a cost . I was to leave my whole family behind and my home with an uncertain prospect of ever coming back . <p> To outsiders , this might seem like a simple choice : follow your dreams , take the chance and leave ! But for me , it was anything but easy . <p> One late afternoon , I was sitting with my sister Aya on our rooftop under a sky filled with spy planes when I came to realise the true weight of my decision . Aya , just 15 years old , was full of energy and hope , her light brown eyes shining with ambition . " I want to learn programming like you , " she said with excitement . " I want to start my own business like you . I want to improve my English like you . " <p> How could I leave her and my family in the midst of war ? Did I deserve a better life while Aya stayed behind , struggling to eat , to sleep , to dream ? How could I live a life elsewhere , knowing my sister faced nightmares alone ? How could I abandon the very land that had made me who I am ? <p> Advertisement <p> In that moment , I realised my soul would never be free if I abandoned Gaza now , if I dismissed it as a place of rubble and ruin . I realised my identity was tied to this place , this struggle . <p> When I first told my family that I wanted to stay , they refused to accept it . They insisted I leave to survive , fearing for my safety . After a long back and forth , they eventually respected my decision , but their fear never fully went away . <p> A few days later , the Israeli army occupied the Rafah crossing , cutting off access to the outside world . I did not regret my decision . <p> As the Israeli army continued to attack civilian areas all over Gaza , displacing hundreds of thousands of people , it was our turn to host relatives . We welcomed them not as displaced people but as our family . It is our duty to share and stand with each other in times of need . By the fall , we were 30 people in our house . <p> Over the summer , we began to feel the growing impact of restrictions not only on humanitarian aid but on all paid goods . Basic food items disappeared from markets . Aid organisations struggled to distribute food . <p> It was increasingly clear that those who survive the bombings would face a different , slower death through starvation . Food rationing became so severe that survival turned into a cruel competition . Life felt more like a jungle where only the strongest could survive . <p> In the fall , hunger was made worse by the rain and wind . We saw people forced to live in tents overcome by misery . <p> In November , a family tragedy struck . My eight-year-old cousin Ahmad , who was like a little brother to me , fell from the third floor of our building and suffered a brain haemorrhage . The thought of losing him was overwhelming . <p> Advertisement <p> We rushed him to Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital , which was overcrowded with the wounded from air strikes and lacked the necessary equipment to perform brain scans . We tried to go to two nearby hospitals , only to be told they too could not do anything for him . By nightfall , we managed to find a medical centre that could help him , but it was far away . Sending him in an ambulance after dark was a huge risk -- the vehicle could be targeted by a drone like so many had been . It was a choice between two deaths . <p> We decided to hang onto hope and sent Ahmad in the ambulance . Even in the darkest of days , miracles happen . Ahmad arrived safely , underwent the necessary surgery and survived . He began to recover although he still needs physical therapy that he can not receive in Gaza . <p> As we worried and cared for Ahmad , December came . Soon we heard unexpected news from Syria : The brutal regime there had collapsed . I felt extremely happy . <p> In Gaza , we have stood in solidarity with the Syrian people for a long time . We know the suffering of war and oppression , and we were genuinely happy to see the Syrian people finally free . Their liberation was the first time we witnessed justice prevail , which gave us a sense of hope . It reminded us that one day , we too might experience that kind of relief , in a liberated homeland where we are no longer afraid for our lives . <p> As the year drew to a close , we followed carefully the news about ceasefire talks , but 2024 is now ending without a moment of relief for us Palestinians . <p> Advertisement <p> This yearlong journey has left its mark on me : streaks of white in my black hair , a frail body , ill-fitting clothes , dark shadows beneath my eyes and a tired gaze that has lost its shine . But it is not just my physical appearance that has changed . This year has burned through my soul like wildfire . <p> But even ashes carry seeds . I feel that something new has emerged within me -- a determination to stay behind , to persevere , to change , to withstand all attempts to erase my memories , my identity , my people . <p> The death and destruction have been overwhelming , but they have not managed to bring me down . If anything , I feel a deep desire to live -- for many more years -- in Gaza , in Palestine . I feel we owe a duty to the martyrs to resist , to stay on this land , to rebuild and to live . The responsibility of restoring our country rests on our shoulders . <p> I am no longer the man I once was , full of dreams of leaving Gaza and living an easy life far away . I will remain in my homeland , and I will continue to hold onto the belief that peace , no matter how fragile , can someday return to Gaza . I will continue to dream of a Palestine where its people can finally be free . <p> The views expressed in this article are the author 's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera 's editorial stance . 
@@119475458 <h> Biden 's ' Netanyahu first , US second ' strategy was a total disaster <p> US President Joe Biden is welcomed by Israeli Prime Minster Benjamin Netanyahu in Tel Aviv on October 18 , 2023 Reuters/Evelyn Hockstein <p> " Were there not an Israel , the United States of America would have to invent an Israel to protect her interest in the region . " These were the words of then-Senator Joe Biden as he made his argument for US support for Israel during a congressional debate on arms sales in the Middle East in 1986 . <p> He clearly did not see the possibility of a clash of interests between Israel and the US back then . Ironically , 38 years later , his presidency would bring to the fore just how much US regional interests no longer align with the Israeli government 's behaviour . <p> The Biden administration gave Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu a free hand to do as he pleases , not just in Gaza , but across the Middle East . Netanyahu is doing everything he can to stay in power in order , which has meant prolonging Israel 's war in Gaza and expanding Israeli aggression into Lebanon , Yemen and even Iran . <p> This has wreaked havoc in the Middle East and directly undermined US foreign policy interests in the region . <h> The US strategic interest <p> The Middle East holds significant strategic importance for the US . It is home to vast reserves of oil and natural gas which are essential to the US economy and the US-dominated global economy . Any disruption in the supply of oil or gas from the region can have unprecedented consequences for global energy security . <p> Advertisement <p> That is why , the US has favoured relative political stability in the region , especially after its 2003 invasion of Iraq , and the 2001-2021 occupation of Afghanistan demonstrated just how dangerous and costly military adventurism can be in the region . <p> Since the first Obama administration , the US has been pursuing a national security strategy that aims to reduce liabilities and stabilise the region in order to withdraw and focus resources on China and Russia , perceived as more pressing threats . As part of this policy , Washington has been working to integrate Israel with its Arab neighbours , establishing a Middle Eastern security arrangement similar to NATO , and boosting economic ties through initiatives like the India-Middle East-Europe Economic Corridor . <p> The Biden administration 's National Security Strategy continued this policy , as it announced the end of the combat mission and withdrawal of US troops in Iraq and continued efforts to expand Israeli-Arab normalisation . <p> But the US pivot out of the Middle East was put on pause indefinitely , when Biden pledged unconditional support for Israel in the aftermath of the October 7 attack by Hamas . Washington has been forced to increase its military presence in the region and spend more than $22bn on military aid to the Israeli army and its own military operations in support of it . This unconditional commitment to Israel is undermining the US 's long-term strategy of focusing on Russia and China and allocating more military aid to Taiwan , Ukraine , South Korea and Japan . <p> Advertisement <h> Netanyahu first , the US second <p> For almost 15 months now , the US has mobilised its political , diplomatic , economic and military capabilities to stand behind Israel . It has deployed navy ships , aircraft carriers and troops in the Mediterranean and the Red Sea and engaged in direct military activity in the region to help shield Israel . <p> On the international stage , it has provided unprecedented support for the Israeli government , attacking and defunding international institutions , undermining the UN and putting pressure on allies not to budge to public outrage about the genocide . US officials have unreservedly defended Israel 's massive war on Gaza that has killed at least 45,000 civilians , the majority of them are children and women , displaced 1.9 million within the Gaza Strip and destroyed civilian infrastructure , schools and hospitals . <p> The US has stood behind Israel as it attacked and devastated Lebanon , killing more than 4,000 people , and as it invaded Syria , occupying even more territory in the southern part of the country . It supported Israeli provocation against Iran : the bombing of the Iranian embassy in Damascus and the assassination of Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh in Tehran . It approved of Israeli bombardment of Yemen that has caused extensive damage to civilian infrastructure and interrupted crucial humanitarian aid deliveries . <p> Israel 's uncontrollable aggression has been driven by Netanyahu , who believes prolonging and maintaining multiple conflicts , making Israelis feel unsafe and keeping his far-right allies satisfied will help him stay in power . Since he has been charged with fraud , breach of trust , and accepting bribes , maintaining his position as prime minister is the only way for him to enjoy immunity against prosecution . His controversial decision-making has led to deep political division between the different actors within Israel , causing an unprecedented societal split . <p> Advertisement <p> Yet , Biden has continued to stand by Netanyahu , basically putting him first -- ahead of all US policy priorities in the region . <h> A destabilised region <p> All of this has thrown the Middle East into turmoil that will have long-lasting implications . The Iranian response to Israeli provocations -- launching twice a mass missile attack on Israel -- was unprecedented . It brought the region to the brink of war . And even though for now it seems Tehran has preferred de-escalation , there is no guarantee that another round would not take place between the two archenemies , plunging the Middle East into a regional conflict . <p> Such a war would drag in multiple state and non-state actors , destroying the economy of Gulf states , and creating a policy quagmire for Washington . <p> Even if such a scenario is avoided , Israel 's uncontrollable aggression is motivating regional actors to arm up . Militarisation of the region may not be limited to conventional arms . Already in May , Kamal Kharrazi , an adviser to Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , warned that " should Iran 's existence be threatened , there will be no choice but to change Iran 's military doctrine . " That is , motivation is increasing in Iran to acquire nuclear weapons , and so is public support for it . <p> Years of international negotiations to ensure the Iranian nuclear programme remains peaceful are being thrown out of the window because of US backing for Netanyahu 's aggressive behaviour in the Middle East . This is also harming global efforts to counter nuclear proliferation , as other regional powers -- including Saudi Arabia and Turkiye -- may also start thinking seriously about nuclear weapons . <p> Advertisement <p> Meanwhile , the global oil and gas supply remains vulnerable . The Houthis are continuing attacks on ships heading to Israel and its allies in the Red Sea , threatening the smooth flow of energy resources and other goods . Their demand for an end to the war in Gaza has not been met . <p> Bab al-Mandeb , where the Houthis operate , along with the Suez Canal and the Strait of Hormuz are key maritime passages through which nearly 40 percent of global oil supply passes . If Netanyahu is allowed to continue to escalate in the Middle East , this could result in major disruptions at these three chokepoints . The consequences for the US and the rest of the world would be disastrous . <p> Beyond the risks of regional war and a global economic crisis due to a spike in oil prices , Biden 's " Netanyahu first " policy is threatening the global order . To defend and shield Israel , his administration has defied decisions by global political platforms like the UN General Assembly , UN Security Council , and the UN legal arm -- the International Court of Justice -- to stop the war in Gaza . <p> The US 's status as a host of the UN headquarters and a supposed guarantor of the international legal order and human rights has been exposed as a fallacy . Its behaviour is eroding the credibility of the post-World War II system it helped create and maintain and it risks causing its collapse . <p> In short , Biden 's insistence on unconditional support for Israel has been a disaster for US foreign policy . In his blind belief in an immutable alliance , the ailing US president may well have dealt the worst blow to US strategic interests in the Middle East in years . <p> Advertisement <p> " There is no apology to be made , none , it is the best $3bn investment we make , " Biden said back in 1986 during his speech . As his term comes to an end , the US president may do well to reflect on his unapologetic stance that has cost his own people billions of dollars of potential investment in social services and that has destroyed a national security strategy years in the making -- all while supporting Netanyahu 's genocide . <p> The views expressed in this article are the author 's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera 's editorial stance . 
@@119475459 <p> Israel 's war on Gaza has left a trail of devastation with the lives of more than two million Palestinians severely disrupted . <p> Long lines of people waiting for food aid have become a common sight . In hospitals , the situation is dire with wounded civilians flooding emergency rooms . Entire families have been wiped out in bombings , leaving behind only grief and despair . <p> Homes -- once symbols of stability -- have been reduced to rubble , displacing hundreds of thousands who now seek shelter in overcrowded refugee camps or makeshift accommodations . <p> These images from the past year capture only a fraction of the suffering endured by the Palestinians of Gaza . <p> Palestinians mourn a child killed in an Israeli bombardment of the Gaza Strip at a hospital morgue in southern Rafah city , on February 12 . Hatem Ali/AP Photo <p> Advertisement <p> Members of the al-Rabaya family break their fast during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan outside their home destroyed by Israeli air strikes , on March 18 . Fatima Shbair/AP Photo <p> Palestinians walk through destruction in the wake of an Israeli air and ground offensive in Khan Younis , southern Gaza , on April 8 . Fatima Shbair/AP Photo <p> Palestinians flee Rafah during an Israeli attack on the city , on May 28 . Abdel Kareem Hana/AP Photo <p> Palestinians fill water jugs near one of Gaza 's last functioning desalination plants in Deir el-Balah , on June 20 . Israel 's war in Gaza has decimated the sanitation system while displacing the vast majority of the population , leaving many Palestinians living in tent camps near growing piles of garbage . Abdel Kareem Hana/AP Photo <p> People watch as the bodies of unidentified Palestinians are buried in a mass grave after they were handed over by Israel in Khan Younis , on August 5 . Mohammed Salem/Reuters <p> Palestinian children wounded in Israeli strikes are treated at a hospital in Deir el-Balah , on September 5 . Israel has systematically destroyed Gaza 's healthcare system with the few remaining hospitals overloaded and struggling to treat the wounded . Abdel Kareem Hana/AP Photo <p> Palestinians mourn relatives killed in an Israeli bombardment of Gaza at a hospital in Deir el-Balah , on October 1 . Abdel Kareem Hana/AP Photo <p> A Palestinian man searches for clothes in the rubble of a house destroyed by Israeli attacks in southern Khan Younis , on November 18 . Hussam al-Masri/Reuters <p> Imam Islam Abu Suaied prays over the bodies of two babies before their burial at Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital in Deir el-Balah , the central Gaza Strip , on December 29 . One baby died at birth while 20-day-old Jomaa al-Batran froze to death because of a lack of shelter and warm clothing as a result of Israel 's war on Gaza in cold and wet weather . At least seven babies have died from the cold in recent weeks . Abdel Kareem Hana/AP Photo 
@@119477442 <p> And Iran just lost one of its most important allies in the region : the Assad regime . <p> From Gaza to Beirut , Damascus to Tehran , it 's been a rough year for Iran and its allies and proxy forces across the Middle East . <p> Israel 's wars against Hamas and Hezbollah have severely degraded these two Iranian proxies , while its military confrontations with Iran itself have left the country short on critical defenses . Tehran 's key ally -- Syria 's longtime dictator , Bashar Assad -- was just ousted by rebel forces . <p> A senior Biden administration official said earlier this month that Assad 's fall can be traced to US support for Israel in its conflicts with Iran and its proxies and Ukraine in its defense against Russia . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> " Hamas is on its back ; its leaders are dead , " the US official told reporters . " Iran is on its back . Hezbollah is on its back . Russia is on its back . It 's just abandoned its only ally in the Middle East . " <p> " Now , the Assad regime -- Russia and Iran 's main ally in the Middle East -- has just collapsed , " they said . <h> The Iranian proxies <p> Mourners surround flag-draped coffins of Hezbollah fighters who were killed fighting Israel during a funeral procession in Lebanon in December.Fadel Itani/Middle East Images via AFP <p> Hamas ' October 7 , 2023 , massacre , which killed around 1,200 people in Israel , sent shockwaves through the Middle East and triggered an immediate -- and devastating -- military response . <p> What began as an aerial bombardment later turned into an Israeli invasion of Gaza . After more than a year , Israel has eliminated Hamas ' military leadership , including Yahya Sinwar , the mastermind of the October 7 attacks , in a scorched-earth campaign that local authorities in Gaza say has killed over 45,000 Palestinians and drawn international condemnation . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> White House National Security Council spokesperson John Kirby said after Sinwar 's killing that Israel has " decimated " the military structure of Hamas , although he acknowledged the group is still a threat in Gaza . <p> Meanwhile , Lebanese Hezbollah started attacking Israel shortly after October 7 , and the two longtime enemies regularly exchanged cross-border fire for nearly a year , displacing tens of thousands of people as fighting steadily escalated . <p> Brian Carter , the Middle East portfolio manager at the American Enterprise Institute 's Critical Threats Project , said earlier this month that the " Israeli operations in Lebanon have defeated Hezbollah and compelled the group to end its involvement in the October 7 War . " <h> Iran itself <p> Satellite imagery shows damaged buildings at a military facility in Iran following Israeli strikes in October.Planet Labs PBC <p> In early April , an Israeli airstrike on an Iranian diplomatic facility in Damascus killed multiple senior Iranian military officials , escalating what had long been a shadow war between Israel and Tehran . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Iran responded later that month by launching over 300 missiles and drones at Israel , but nearly all the projectiles were shot down in what was the first-ever direct attack on Israel from Iranian soil . Israel then struck Iran in retaliation . <p> In July , Iran accused Israel of executing the daring assassination of Ismail Haniyeh , the leader of Hamas ' political wing . Haniyeh was killed at a guesthouse in Tehran -- a tremendous security breach and a blow to Iran . <p> Israel then responded later that month , carrying out widespread airstrikes that nearly wiped out all of Iran 's air-defense systems and degraded its ability to produce missiles . An Israeli security official told BI in the aftermath that the strikes were " powerful " and put Tehran at a " disadvantage , " as they left the country vulnerable to follow-on military action . <h> The Assad regime <p> People celebrate in Damascus following the first Friday prayers since Assad was ousted in December.AP Photo/Leo Correa <p> Iran long supported the Assad regime because it viewed Damascus as a crucial pillar for keeping weapons flowing to Hezbollah and projecting its influence across the region to Lebanon along the Mediterranean Sea . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> But earlier this month , Syria 's yearslong civil war ended in shocking fashion when rebel forces suddenly swept across the country in a lightning offensive that lasted just days and ended with their capture of Damascus . Assad and his family fled to Moscow . <p> US officials attributed the sudden collapse of the Assad regime to the fact that its main allies -- Iran , Hezbollah , and Russia -- were much weaker than in years past and simply could n't intervene militarily as they had done earlier in the civil war . <p> President Joe Biden said after the rebels captured Damascus that the military setbacks Iran and Hezbollah have suffered fighting against Israel this year essentially made it " impossible " for them to continue to support the Assad regime . <h> The Houthis <p> Houthi fighters man truck-mounted guns during a rally against Israel and the US in December.Mohammed Hamoud/Getty Images <p> One Iranian ally that has stood out among the others is the Houthis , a rebel group in Yemen that has spent over a year attacking civilian and military ships in the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden . <p> Armed with a large , diverse stockpile of missiles and attack drones , the Houthis have launched more than 130 attacks on vessels transiting shipping lanes off the coast of Yemen . They have struck a number of merchant ships , sinking two of them and hijacking one . Four sailors have been killed during the campaign . <p> The Houthis have said their campaign is in support of Palestinians in Gaza , although US officials often dismiss this claim since the rebels have targeted vessels sailing under many different flags . These attacks have caused a significant decline in activity along a key global trade route , forcing shipping companies to make longer and more costly trips around Africa . <p> A Western naval coalition , led by the US Navy , has so far been unable to defeat or deter the Houthis . American forces routinely intercept inbound missiles and drones and carry out strikes against the rebels in Yemen . <p> Though degraded , the Houthis still retain the ability to attack ships . Just this month alone , the rebels have targeted US warships and commercial ships with missiles and drones on multiple occasions . The vessels all emerged unscathed after the attacks , but the incidents underscore the enduring threat that shows no signs of stopping . <p> For the past few years , TechCrunch has looked back at some of the worst , badly handled data breaches and security incidents in the hope -- maybe ! To absolutely nobody 's surprise , here we are again this year listing much of the same bad behavior from an entirely new class of companies -- plus , some bonus ( dis ) honorable mentions from the year that you might 've missed . Last year , genetic testing giant 23andMe lost the genetic and ancestry data on close to 7 million customers , thanks to a data breach that saw hackers brute-force access to thousands of accounts to scrape data on millions more . <p> Lumen , one of at least nine U.S. telecommunications firms reportedly compromised by Salt Typhoon hackers , says the Chinese hacking group is no longer in its network . Lumen spokesperson Mark Molzen told TechCrunch that an independent forensic analysis confirmed the company ejected the Chinese actors from its network , adding that there is " no evidence that customer data was accessed " during the Salt Typhoon breach . Lumen 's confirmation comes after U.S. telecom giants AT&amp;T and Verizon confirmed to TechCrunch that they had also secured their networks following their breaches . <p> India has removed restrictions on WhatsApp 's payments service in a significant victory for Meta in its largest market by users as the social media giant seeks to compete with entrenched fintech rivals . The National Payments Corporation of India ( NPCI ) , the payments body overseeing the popular instant payments rail called UPI , said Tuesday that WhatsApp can now roll out WhatsApp Pay to all its users in the market . WhatsApp has more than 500 million users in India . <p> Vincent Goodwill and The Athletic 's Sam Amick react to the Sacramento Kings firing Mike Brown after a 13-18 start . Then , Vince and Sam break down what the Warriors can do to improve their roster ahead of the trade deadline and why it might be time to part ways with their young pieces , including Jonathan Kuminga . Later , Vince and Sam share why LeBron 's 40th birthday might signal the end of his championship window . 
@@119485559 <h> What Could Citizens ' Assemblies Do for American Politics ? <p> Downtown Bend , Oregon , which has transformed in recent decades as newcomers have flocked to the city.Photograph by Joe Kline / NYT / Redux <p> Last July , an unusual letter arrived at Kathryn Kundmueller 's mobile home , in central Oregon . It invited her to enter a lottery that would select thirty residents of Deschutes County to deliberate for five days on youth homelessness -- a visible and contentious issue in an area where the population and cost of living have spiked in recent years . Those chosen would be paid for their time -- almost five hundred dollars -- and asked to develop specific policy recommendations . <p> Kundmueller was being invited to join what is known as a citizens ' assembly . These gatherings do what most democracies only pretend to : trust normal people to make decisions on difficult policy questions . Many citizens ' assemblies follow a basic template . They impanel a random but representative cross-section of a population , give them high-quality information on a topic , and ask them to work together to reach a decision . In Europe , such groups have helped spur reform of the Irish constitution in order to legalize abortion , guided an Austrian pharmaceutical heiress on how to give away her wealth , and become a regular part of government in Paris and Belgium . Though still rare in America , the model reflects the striking idea that fundamental problems of politics -- polarization , apathy , manipulation by special interests -- can be transformed through radically direct democracy . <p> Kundmueller , who is generally frustrated by politics , was intrigued by the letter . She liked the prospect of helping to shape local policy , and the topic of housing insecurity had a particular resonance for her . As a teen-ager , following a falling-out with her father , she spent months bouncing between friends ' couches in Vermont . When she moved across the country to San Jose , after college , she lived in her car for a time while she searched for a stable job . She worked in finance but became disillusioned ; now in her early forties , she ran a small housecleaning business . She still thought about living in a van and renting out her mobile home to save money . <p> From an initial mailing to twelve thousand seven hundred households in Deschutes County , about a hundred and twenty people responded . The assembly 's organizers -- a group of nonprofits with support from local elected officials and philanthropic funding -- wanted selected delegates to mirror the county 's demographics along many axes , including age , gender , housing status , ethnicity , political affiliation , and education . Using survey results from the respondents , the Portland-based organization Healthy Democracy deployed a software program to create numerous combinations of delegates that would reflect the region in microcosm . When one of those groups was chosen at random , through a lottery-style system , Kundmueller was in it . <p> The assembly lasted five full days , spread across two weekends a few weeks apart . The members of the cohort , who ranged in age from their teens to their eighties , included a retired pipe fitter , an I.T . specialist , a restaurant manager , a worker at a local bullet manufacturer , and several small-business owners . Some of the delegates were struggling to pay rent in cramped apartments ; others owned spacious homes with many spare rooms . About fifty per cent were politically unaffiliated , with the other half split evenly between Democrats and Republicans . <p> They met in the airy wood-panelled atrium of a new building on the Oregon State University-Cascades campus , in the county seat of Bend , and spent the first weekend learning about youth homelessness and about one another , with icebreakers , small-group discussions , and presentations from experts . " It had an awkward vibe in the room to me , in a really good way , sort of that first-class-of-college kind of feel , " a member of a regional government council who observed the first weekend told me . <p> Awkward but civil conversation was an improvement over recent political discourse about homelessness in Deschutes County . One Bend city-council member recalled a public meeting at which someone compared homeless people to raccoons , saying that if they 're fed , they will stay in the area and make more raccoons . Advocates for homeless people could be extreme , too ; another local elected official described being likened to a Nazi for suggesting a need to regulate encampments . <p> During the first weekend , the assembly members generated questions that they wanted answered in the second session . The organizers then convened panels made up of nonprofit service providers , government employees , and community advocates to address the delegates . Some questions were very broad , such as " How can we disrupt the cycle of generational poverty ? " Others were highly targeted : " How much money is spent sweeping the homeless encampments ? " and " Is there more funding or resources to build more tiny homes ? " <p> In an age of high political polarization and dysfunction , a diverse group of citizens calmly studying and discussing a nuanced issue presents a surprisingly functional image of politics . " It was like Congress without the showboating , " Elizabeth Marino , an associate professor of anthropology at O.S.U.-Cascades whose research explores divisive conversations , said of the first weekend . Marino , alongside a group of researchers from M.I.T. , was interested in observing the assembly to understand how people navigate charged conversations . Marino 's research team has found that when they shift the moral frames used to discuss polarizing topics , greater consensus becomes possible . In one study , the researchers discovered that when climate change was framed in terms of patriotism , personal responsibility , and the purity of America 's environment , conservatives were more likely to say that it was caused by humans than when the topic was discussed with an emphasis on values like justice or fairness , which typically appeal more to liberals . The team found a similar result when a suicide-prevention message aimed at firearm owners invoked tradition and responsibility . These were controlled studies ; whether anything similar would happen spontaneously in Bend was an open question . <p> On a cool Friday morning in October , the delegates talked over coffee and fruit in the light-filled atrium as they waited for the final three days of the assembly to begin . The aesthetic in the room was split between elk-hunting cabin and trendy coffee shop ; some people wore jeans , work boots , or cowboy hats , while others were in leggings , puffy jackets , and hoodies . Bend reflects a similar mix : the city , which has a population of roughly a hundred thousand , is a former logging town now home to craft breweries , upscale boutiques , and tech companies . <p> As the delegates took their seats at a large U-shaped table , they chatted amiably . After the first weekend , they now knew who played Scrabble , who owned alpacas , who did upholstery work . The mood was more neighborhood-association potluck than city-council meeting . <p> On a bank of windows was a cloud of yellow sticky notes on which delegates had written points that they wanted the entire group to consider . These ranged from the factual ( " 500 homeless kids in central Oregon " ) to policy pitches ( " Cash direct transfers has shown life altering changes for youth in the homeless system " ) to an aphorism attributed to the conservative economist Thomas Sowell ( " There are no solutions , only trade-offs " ) . <p> During the morning session , a delegate named Benjamin , a bearded man in a blue-and-white plaid shirt , tapped the microphone on the table in front of his seat and began to speak . Based on the information presented , he said , it seemed safe to assume that it was not possible to increase the supply of housing fast enough to drive down prices . He wondered instead if there was a way to decrease demand from " buyers from outside the area " who had " disproportionate purchasing power . " <p> The three panelists -- all housing-policy experts and staffers in city or county government -- did not offer any concrete ways to do this . " It 's probably a bigger philosophical discussion , " Erik Kropp , the deputy county administrator for Deschutes , said . " I 'm not sure how you limit the purchaser in terms of where they 're coming from . " When a second panelist mentioned a policy in Portland that used property-tax revenue to fund affordable housing , Benjamin , reading from his laptop , cited various places that tax buyers from outside of the region : " I have a list right here , " he said . Kundmueller , a few seats away , nodded as he spoke and jotted something down on her notepad . " Is that something that you consider to be politically feasible ? " Benjamin asked the members of the panel . They did n't know ; one suggested it was a question for elected officials , not staff . <p> Benjamin 's idea could be seen as a wealth tax , but this was not how he presented it . He instead made an implicit appeal to defend people within the area from outsiders driving up prices . " That struck me , " Marino said later . " That felt like a novel path forward . That 's something you do n't get very often when you 're listening to a debate on the floor , right ? " <p> During a snack break , I approached Benjamin , who was holding forth to a small group of delegates about the unreliability of the media . The rumors about immigrants eating pets in Springfield , Ohio , were grounded in truth , he claimed -- he was from there , so he should know . He was happy to talk with me about his life and his political views , which he described as " somewhere in the vicinity of anarchism , agorism , and libertarianism . " But he felt that these labels were misleading . " What libertarian have you heard suggest hiking up taxes ? " <p> Kundmueller 's views also defied easy characterization . She grew up listening to NPR and supporting Democrats , she said , but their support for Israel 's bombing of civilians in Gaza was one among several issues that made her feel it was hard to back the Party . On youth homelessness , she strongly believed that corporations were not people and should not be allowed to buy real estate as a speculative asset . She liked Benjamin 's idea of taxing wealthy out-of-state buyers at a higher rate . But she also stressed the importance of individual responsibility . She had recently finished the 2018 book " The Coddling of the American Mind , " by the attorney and free-speech activist Greg Lukianoff and the social psychologist Jonathan Haidt , and she thought that young people needed to learn independence and self-reliance . " It seems like we have a society that continues to sort of go down that route of sort of forced helplessness , " she said . <p> Throughout the final weekend of the citizens ' assembly , the delegates drafted , revised , and finally voted for specific policy recommendations . The process was full of iterative loops , so that as ideas were tested against empirical information and the views of other panelists , they could be gradually strengthened and refined . One afternoon , during a collaborative editing session , there was some disagreement about a single word . An older delegate had proposed that the principle of promoting " strong families " should guide their thinking . A younger delegate felt that the word " strong " was too aggressive , and urged the assembly to consider encouraging " community building " rather than " this supposed structure of a strong family . " As the author of the proposal , the first delegate had the final word , and he objected to this revision . After a few minutes of discussion among multiple delegates , he agreed to replace " strong families " with " cohesive and resilient families . " It was a small but significant moment -- a civil exchange of different views , followed by a compromise . <p> With other suggestions , compromise was not an option . As solutions to youth homelessness , one man proposed a one-child policy and a war with another country to boost the economy . These were just the sort of trollish suggestions that on social media would incite a predictable storm of outrage . In person , the effect was different . Another delegate in the same small-group discussion said that the ideas got polite but forceful pushback . " He had , like , seventeen ideas , and some of them were very good and interesting . And the other ones , you know , were definitely more out there , " the other delegate said . <p> On the final day of the assembly , delegates ranged through the atrium and two adjoining rooms , voting on more than four dozen discrete recommendations written on sheets of white paper hung from walls and windows . Beneath each recommendation was printed a brief rationale and pros and cons listed by delegates . People voted by pasting small colored stickers in a quadrant to show one of four levels of support : strongly agree , agree , neutral , or disagree . The delegates themselves had proposed a refinement to the voting , asking for the results to be covered beneath a privacy flap , so that social influence had less sway over their choices . <p> The recommendations that were supported by a super-majority , with seventy-five per cent of delegates either agreeing or strongly agreeing , were varied . Some focussed on schools : one suggested that school staff be allowed to override the state 's " ten-day drop policy , " which unenrolls students who are absent for more than ten days ; another aimed to mandate financial-literacy training for young people . Some proposed more funding for nonprofits or the centralization of services such as child-care support , public transit , vocational training , and social-media outreach to advertise these services . Other recommendations targeted the foster-care system , calling for more resources for eighteen-year-olds leaving the system and redefining the goal of always reuniting young people with their birth families . All twenty-two recommendations that cleared this seventy-five-per-cent threshold were presented in November to the Bend City Council , the county commissioners , and a body of formerly homeless young people called the Central Oregon Youth Action Board . It 's still unclear which , if any , of these will be implemented , but elected officials will respond to them in the new year . <p> One of the popular recommendations was a descendant of Benjamin 's idea : seventy-seven per cent of delegates supported reforming local housing policy to benefit community members through measures such as levying taxes on second or additional properties , or instituting a tax on non-owner-occupied properties . This was neither a wealth tax nor a tax on buyers from out of state , but the proposal overlapped with both ideas . <p> Multiple delegates were skeptical that politicians would act on any of these recommendations . Early in the weekend , when I first asked Kundmueller if she thought any of their ideas would become reality , she gave a derisive laugh and answered , " No . " But when I asked her at the end how she was feeling , she had changed her mind a little . " I definitely came in a skeptic , " she said . " Now I 'm optimistically skeptical . " ? <p> A whistle-blower report and other documents suggest that Trump 's nominee to run the Pentagon was forced out of previous leadership positions for financial mismanagement , sexist behavior , and being repeatedly intoxicated on the job . 
@@119490950 <p> Repeated Israeli attacks on Gaza 's hospitals and nearby operations have brought Gaza 's health care system to its knees , according to a report issued Tuesday by the U.N . human rights office . <p> The 19-page report finds , " Israel 's pattern of deadly attacks " on and near hospitals " has led to the destruction of most hospitals in Gaza , " leading to sustained combat in and around many hospitals and " pushing the health care system to the brink of total collapse . " <p> " The situation has deteriorated to a catastrophic level since October 2023 , as this already damaged health system has been targeted , resulting in the killing of hundreds of health and medical professionals , " authors of the report assert . <p> The report covers the period from Oct. 7 , 2023 -- when Hamas militants launched a terror attack on Israel , killing some 1,200 people and taking about 250 hostages -- to June 30 , 2024 . <p> Hamas has been designated as a terror group by the United States , Britain and other Western countries . <p> During this period , the report documents at least 136 strikes on at least 27 hospitals and 12 other medical facilities , claiming many casualties among medical staff and civilians and causing significant damage , " if not complete destruction of civilian infrastructure . " <p> " This report graphically details the destruction of the health care system in Gaza , and the extent of killing of patients , staff , and other civilians in these attacks in blatant disregard for international humanitarian and human rights law , " Volker Tu ? rk , U.N . High Commissioner for Human Rights said in a statement coinciding with the publication of the report . <p> He said the report raises serious concerns about Israel 's compliance with international law . It points out that medical personnel and hospitals are specifically protected under international humanitarian law , " provided they do not commit , or are not used to commit , outside their humanitarian function , acts harmful to the enemy . " <p> " As if the relentless bombing and the dire humanitarian situation in Gaza were not enough , the one sanctuary where Palestinians should have felt safe in fact became a death trap , " Tu ? rk said . " The protection of hospitals during warfare is paramount and must be respected by all sides , at all times . " <p> Israeli response <p> Israel has vigorously refuted these charges . In an 11-page response , Israel 's Permanent Mission in Geneva described this fourth " thematic report " by the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights as one of many examples " of the inherent obsession of OHCHR with vilifying Israel . " <p> It accused the agency of dismissing " well-documented evidence of Hamas military activities in health facilities " and of its " unwillingness to recognize Hamas 's systemic exploitation of Gazan medical facilities for terror purposes . " <p> Damage is seen after an Israeli strike on Al-Wafaa hospital , according to the Palestinian civil defense , amid the ongoing conflict between Israel and Hamas , in Gaza City , Dec. 29 , 2024 . <p> The Permanent Mission called the methodology employed in OHCHR reports as " fundamentally flawed . " It criticized the agency 's reliance on " unreliable sources " and justified its attacks on hospitals on the grounds that these health care centers were being used by Palestinian armed groups . <p> " There is ample evidence regarding Hamas terror activity in medical facilities , " the Permanent Mission stated . " Hamas embeds its tunnel system and infrastructure within the premises of medical facilities as a matter of strategy and utilizes them as arms caches and accessible headquarters for its operatives . " <p> The OHCHR reports attacks on hospitals have occurred in each of the areas in which the Israeli military has conducted ground operations starting in November 2023 with an attack on Al-Shifa Medical Complex and other hospitals in Gaza City . <p> The attacks continue to this day . The report notes that " The appalling destruction wrought by the Israeli military 's attacks on the Kamal Adwan hospital last Friday -- leaving the population of North Gaza with almost no access to adequate health care -- reflects the pattern of attacks documented in the report . " <p> Reacting to the attack on the Kamal Adwan hospital , the U.N . Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs , or OCHA , expressed alarm Monday at the ongoing attacks across the Gaza Strip and the airstrike on Kamal Adwan hospital , warning that " the very means of people 's survival are being dismantled . " <p> According to the World Health Organization , 15 out of Gaza 's 36 hospitals remain " partially functional , " nine in the south and six in the north . <p> " The health system is under severe threat , " said Tedros Adhanan Gebgreyesus , WHO director-general , noting that " hospitals in Gaza have once again become battlegrounds . " <p> The OHCHR report finds the increasingly limited healthcare system is preventing many of those with trauma injuries from receiving timely and possibly life-saving treatment . It says attacks on hospitals in Gaza also are having serious implications for patients with " initially non-fatal conditions , potentially rendering them fatal . " <p> " Women , especially pregnant women , are suffering gravely . Many women are giving birth with no or minimal pre- and postnatal care , increasing the risk of preventable maternal and child mortality , " it said . It added that people with chronic diseases , such as kidney failure , hypertension , diabetes , and heart disease , also have lost access to their treatment , " placing them at risk of worsening health outcomes and death . " <p> Authors of the report say , " Intentionally directing attacks against hospitals and places where the sick and wounded are treated , provided they are not military objectives ... and intentionally launching disproportionate attacks , are also war crimes . " <p> It added that " Under certain circumstances , the deliberate destruction of health care facilities may amount to a form of collective punishment , which would also constitute a war crime . " <p> Human rights chief Tu ? rk is calling for independent , thorough and transparent investigations of all of these incidents , " and full accountability for all violations of international humanitarian and human rights law which have taken place . " <p> In response to this appeal , Israel 's Permanent Mission in Geneva stated , " The State of Israel reaffirms its commitment to international law , and remains committed to examining and investigating any exceptional incidents through its established mechanisms . " 
