Text ID: t011875
Group:   global_north_2024_12
File:    corpus/04_now_screened_iqr_cap/global_north_2024_12/us/119448934.txt

Score (f3_pos): 16
Loading words (f3_pos), N=16: campus, student, administrator, faculty, encampment, university, pro-palestinian, card, demonstration, protest, divestment, detain, activist, activity, grant, peaceful
<p> Vice Mayor Chelsea Byers , who was elected to serve as mayor as part of the City Council members ' annual rotation of positions and will be sworn in on January 13 , is listed as a member of Beautiful Trouble , which provides materials and education on protest and activist tactics and best practices to create a world without " capitalism and classism ; racism , white supremacy , Zionism , and colonialism ; patriarchy , sexism , and heterosexism ; ableism , ageism , sizeism , and other forms of oppression . " <p> Byer 's old West Hollywood city biography describes her as a " core team member with Beautiful Trouble , " but by December 18 , mention of the group was removed from the official background . Beautiful Trouble lists Byers as a former director of operations and as a current editor of its study guides and strategy card deck . <p> According to an independent search by The Jerusalem Post on the Internet Archive , Byers continued to be listed as director on the website until at least September . Byers was elected to West Hollywood City Council in 2022 and became Vice Mayor in January . <p> " As a facilitator , Chelsea has led hundreds of hours of training and curated countless professional and leadership development programs , " reads her current Beautiful Trouble biography . Students for Justice in Palestine organize mass protests on October 7 in the US ( credit : SCREENSHOT/X ) <h> Incorporated anti-Israel activity <p> The activist tactics taught by Beautiful Trouble often incorporate anti-Israel activity as an example or use stories of pro-Palestinian protest to highlight strategies . One such story , shared on the day after the October 7 massacre , explained how activists would fly to Ben-Gurion Airport and unfurl " Welcome to Palestine " to draw attention to Israeli denial of entries to anti-Israel actors . <p> Beautiful Trouble recommends the tactic of flotillas like the one involved in the MV Mavi Marmara incident , in which activists attacked naval commandos when they were boarded . Nine activists were killed and several IDF soldiers were wounded in the clash . In another tactic , Beautiful Trouble advocated for activists to engage in " currency hacking " using the example of anti-Israel activists defacing Israeli currency with the slogan " free Palestine . " <p> On October 19 and 23 , 2023 , the group shared on Instagram insights to guide action by anti-Israel activists . In February , it advised seeking divestment as a long-term campaign strategy in the vein of the BDS movement . <p> In May , it shared a " guide for lawful encampments " as a resource for activists who wished to start their own campus protest encampments . The group said that it drew upon its own experience from encampments in front of the Israeli embassy . <p> Besides encampments , Beautiful Trouble maintains a " resistance hotline " in collaboration with BlackOut Collective to provide tips and tools for organizing or doing effective actions . The " Get Up , Rise Up , Direct Action Fund " is a grant by Beautiful Trouble for initiatives that push for " a ceasefire , a safe return of Israeli hostages and release of the over 7,000 Palestinian political prisoners detained in Israeli prisons " and " an end to the blockade of Gaza , US ( and other foreign ) military aid to Israel , and the Israeli colonial and apartheid system . " <p> Byers 's anti-Israel activism far predates her involvement with Beautiful Trouble . According to the Northern Arizona University Students for Justice in Palestine Facebook page , the Vice Mayor is one of the founders and administrators . <p> " Northern Arizona University Students for Justice in Palestine is a diverse group of faculty , students , and community members who work in solidarity with , not on behalf of , Palestinians and Israelis that together continue to struggle for justice , human rights , self-determination , and liberation . Through educated discourse , advocacy , peaceful demonstration , and community engagement , we seek to shed light on the policies of discrimination and give voice to the silenced , " Byers declared the group 's mission statement in 2011 . <p> While NAU SJP claimed to have been " pro-Palestine " and " not anti-Israel " during " Israel Apartheid Week , " and the group described how it engaged in cross-community events with pro-Israel groups , it called for the boycott of Sabra and Tribe Humus from NAU and created projects like a magazine for IAW . <p> In another 2011 NAU SJP boycott , the group on X called on consumers to avoid purchasing Ahava beauty products , presaging Beautiful Trouble 's own advice about the " Stolen Beauty " campaign against the Israeli company .
