Text ID: t016056
Group:   global_north_2024_12
File:    corpus/04_now_screened_iqr/global_north_2024_12/us/118455573.txt

Score (f3_pos): 18
Loading words (f3_pos), N=18: revoke, campus, student, crackdown, encampment, detention, university, arrest, college, lawyer, academic, detain, protester, protest, demonstration, activist, chant, activity
<p> More than 100 pro-Palestinian protesters link arms to surround an encampment on April 26 , outside the Indiana Memorial Union in Bloomington . Inside the encampment , there was food , medical supplies , tents , and a pile of backpacks . Mia Hilkowitz for Indiana Daily Student <p> A new report tracking the health of civic freedoms around the world identifies a notable trend : Crackdowns on Palestinian solidarity protests in every kind of society , from the most open to the least . <p> " Both the conflict itself and its impact on civic space ... is one of the main takeaways of the year for us , " says Tara Petrovic , an author of the report by CIVICUS Monitor , a global alliance of civil society groups , headquartered in Johannesburg . " We 've seen expressions of solidarity and we 've seen repression of these expressions of solidarity at pretty much every corner of the globe . " <p> Most protests are over issues close to home -- food prices , national politics . The throngs that gathered outside South Korea 's parliament on Tuesday were chanting against the President 's abrupt imposition of martial law , which outlawed just such expressions . Had the decree survived the day , the space for civil society in South Korea might have dropped from its current assessment , " narrowed , " to " obstructed " in the next annual CIVICUS report , titled People Power Under Attack . The group assays civic space in 198 countries , from " open " to " repressed , " and in its newly released report found that nearly one-tenth of the protests suppressed by authorities involved Israel 's war against Hamas in Gaza , or solidarity with the Palestinian people . <p> The deadly Hamas attack on Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , and the devastating retaliatory war that answered it , sparked protests around the world , many demanding an end to a war that has claimed the lives of at least 1,200 Israelis and 44,000 Palestinians . But not all such demonstrations have been welcomed . In several countries , including those where civic freedoms are considered by CIVICUS to be " narrowed , " such as the Netherlands ( whose standing was downgraded from " open " this year ) , Australia , and Italy , pro-Palestinian protesters were met with what the organization deems excessive force , arrests , and detention . Some , such as France , banned protests outright on the grounds that they posed a security risk . <p> Germany stands out , according to Petrovic . In addition to cracking down on protests , German authorities have cancelled pro-Palestinian events , conducted raids on the homes of pro-Palestinian activists , and even enforced Schengen-wide bans on pro-Palestinian speakers , such as the British-Palestinian surgeon Ghassan Abu Sitta , trying to visit the country . ( That ban , which applied to the 29 European nations that eliminated passport controls for travel between them , was subsequently overturned . ) Most recently , the German government introduced new rules mandating that those applying for naturalization in the country affirm Israel 's right to exist . Germany 's ranking on the CIVICUS Monitor was downgraded from " open " to " narrowed " in 2023 -- a relegation that Petrovic says was widely attributed to the state 's actions against climate activists , with tactics not dissimilar to those now being used against Palestinian-solidarity campaigners . <p> In the U.S. , whose CIVICUS ranking has stood at " narrowed " since 2022 , college campuses remain the fulcrum of debate over pro-Palestinian demonstrations , with more than 3,100 people arrested or detained at protests that often included encampments , the vast majority of which were peaceful . The controversies cost the leaders of several Ivy League universities their jobs , and resulted in many universities changing their rules around permissible campus activity and introducing new disciplinary measures in an apparent bid to prevent further such protests from taking place . Last month , the House of Representatives passed legislation that would enable the government to revoke the tax-exempt status of nonprofit groups it accuses of supporting terrorist entities -- a power that opponents of the bill says could be weaponized to target certain organizations , including Palestinian rights groups . <p> " Engaging in activism or public debate concerning Israel and the situation of Palestinians living under Israeli military occupation has become an incredibly fraught endeavor , " Zaha Hassan , a human rights lawyer and fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace , writes in Suppressing Dissent : Shrinking Civic Space , Transnational Repression and Palestine-Israel , which is due to be published on Dec. 5 . " This is true even outside of academic settings , whether one lives in Israel , in the occupied Palestinian territories , in a liberal democracy such as the United States , or under autocratic rule in the Arab Middle East . That American classrooms and college campuses -- so often idealized as safe spaces for ideas to be debated -- have become deeply contested terrain is no accident . " <p> So long as the war in Gaza persists , the protests opposed to it are expected to continue -- as are the efforts to suppress them . But Petrovic notes that the movements have already had a demonstrable impact on policy : several countries have withheld weapons sales to Israel , as well as restored funding to UNRWA , suspended when Israel reported a handful of Palestinians involved in the Oct. 7 attack also worked for the the U.N . agency that provides health , education , and food aid to Palestinians . Visibility , however , is the main accomplishment . <p> " What we 've seen this year was this incredible global mobilization of people for the same cause , " she says , " and more specifically in solidarity with the people of Palestine and what they 're facing . "
