Text ID: t032646
Group:   global_south_2024_12
File:    corpus/04_now_screened_iqr/global_south_2024_12/in/118386802.txt

Score (f3_pos): 6
Loading words (f3_pos), N=6: university, arrest, lawyer, judge, police, grant
<h> ICC lashes out at US , Russia over threats , accusations <p> The Hague , Dec 2 : The president of the International Criminal Court lashed out at the United States and Russia for interfering with its investigations , calling threats and attacks on the court " appalling " . " The court is being threatened with draconian economic sanctions by another permanent member of the Security Council as if it was a terrorist organisation , " Judge Tomoko Akane , in her address to the institution 's annual meeting , which opened on Monday . Akane was referring to remarks made by US Sen. Lindsey Graham , whose Republican party will control both branches of Congress in January , and who called the court a " dangerous joke " and urged Congress to sanction its prosecutor . " To any ally , Canada , Britain , Germany , France , if you try to help the ICC , we 're going to sanction you , " Graham said on Fox News . This marks the first time the global court of justice calls out a sitting leader of a major Western all . Graham was angered by an announcement last month that judges had granted a request from the court 's chief prosecutor Karim Khan to issue arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , his former defence minister and Hamas ' military chief for crimes against humanity in connection with the nearly 14-month war in Gaza . The decision has been denounced by critics of the court and given only milquetoast approval by many of its supporters , a stark contrast to the robust backing of an arrest warrant for Russian President Vladimir Putin last year over war crimes in Ukraine . Graham 's threat is n't seen as just empty words . President-elect Donald Trump sanctioned the court 's previous prosecutor , Fatou Bensouda , with a travel ban and asset freeze for investigating American troops and intelligence officials in Afghanistan . Akane on Monday also had harsh words for Russia . " Several elected officials are being subjected to arrest warrants from a permanent member of the Security Council , " she said . Moscow issued warrants for Khan and others in response to the investigation into Putin . The Assembly of States Parties , which represents the ICC 's 124 member countries , will convene its 23rd conference to elect committee members and approve the court 's budget against a backdrop of unfavourable headlines . The ICC was established in 2002 as the world 's permanent court of last resort to prosecute individuals responsible for the most heinous atrocities -- war crimes , crimes against humanity , genocide and the crime of aggression . The court only becomes involved when nations are unable or unwilling to prosecute those crimes on their territory . To date , 124 countries have signed on to the Rome Statute , which created the institution . Those who have not include Israel , Russia and China . The ICC has no police force and relies on member states to execute arrest warrants . US President Joe Biden called the warrants for Netanyahu and the former defence minister " outrageous " and vowed to stand with Israel . A year ago , Biden called the warrant for Putin " justified " and said the Russian president had committed war crimes . The US is not an ICC member country . France said it would " respect its obligations " but would need to consider Netanyahu 's possible immunities . When the warrant for Putin was announced , France said it would " lend its support to the essential work " of the court . Another member country , Austria , begrudgingly acknowledged it would arrest Netanyahu but called the warrants " utterly incomprehensible . " Italy called them " wrong " but said it would be obliged to arrest him . Germany said it would study the decision . Member Hungary has said it would stand with Israel instead of the court . Global security expert Janina Dill worried that such responses could undermine global justice efforts . " It really has the potential to damage not just the court , but international law , " she told The Associated Press . Milena Sterio , an expert in international law at Cleveland State University , told the AP that sanctions against the court could affect a number of people who contribute to the court 's work , such as international human rights lawyer Amal Clooney . Clooney advised the current prosecutor on his request for the warrants for Netanyahu and others . " Sanctions are a huge burden , " Sterio said . Also hanging heavy over the meeting in the Hague , are the internal pressures that Khan faces . In October , the AP reported the 54-year-old British lawyer is facing allegations he tried to coerce a female aide into a sexual relationship and groped her . Two co-workers in whom the woman confided reported the alleged misconduct in May to the court 's independent watchdog , which says it interviewed the woman and ended its inquiry after five days when she opted against filing a formal complaint . Khan was never questioned . He has denied the claims . ( PTI ) <h> Follow us <h> About Us <p> The Shillong Times first appeared as a tabloid weekly on 10th August 1945 under the editorship of Late Sudhindra Bhusan Chaudhuri . In 1958 it was converted to a Daily . Owing to financial constraints , within six months it reverted back to a weekly .
