Text ID: t016548
Group:   global_north_2024_12
File:    corpus/04_now_screened_iqr/global_north_2024_12/us/119146929.txt

Score (f3_pos): 16
Loading words (f3_pos), N=16: campus, student, encampment, faculty, university, arrest, spring, demonstrator, protester, protest, antisemitic, activist, police, activity, officer, school
<h> The Education Department 's Office of Civil Rights claimed the universities were ' engaged in different treatment of students based on actual or perceived national origin . ' <p> By ANDREW LAPIN/JTA DECEMBER 21 , 2024 03:36 <p> Police officers clash with pro-Palestinian demonstrators at the University of California at Irvine ( UCI ) on May 15 , 2024 in Irvine , California. ( photo credit : Qian Weizhong/VCG via Getty Images ) <p> ( JTA ) -- The US Department of Education announced it had resolved nine antisemitism- and Islamophobia-related civil rights complaints made against five campuses inside the University of California system on Friday , including some involving a prominent pro-Palestinian encampment in Los Angeles that had descended into violence in the spring . <p> The sweeping resolution comes in the final weeks of President Biden 's term , and as President-elect Donald Trump has threatened to eliminate the department altogether , which could potentially move antisemitism investigations under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act to the Justice Department . <p> The Education Department 's Office of Civil Rights , which handles Title VI cases , wrote in an open letter to Michael Drake , president of the UC system , that it had " identified compliance concerns that the Universities appear not to have responded promptly or effectively " to allegations of harassment . In addition , OCR said , three of the schools " appear to have engaged in different treatment of students based on actual or perceived national origin . " <p> Four of the resolved cases involved the University of California , Los Angeles , where an unruly spring encampment -- and pro-Israel counterdemonstrations -- ended in violence and arrests . UCLA received complaints on behalf of both Jewish and pro-Palestinian students that the school had failed to protect them during the encampments , which also recently earned the campus a legal rebuke based on accusations that protesters blocked Jewish students ' access to parts of campus . ( An internal antisemitism task force at UCLA also recently found that the school had fostered an antisemitic environment , including as a result of the encampments . ) <p> Two more complaints involved UC Davis , where a faculty member in October 2023 posted threats to " Zionist journalists " on social media , and where Muslim and Palestinian students alleged they had been doxxed and stalked . PROTESTERS SUPPORTING Palestinians in Gaza gather at UCLA in May . School campuses have become toxic for Jews , hearkening back to the time when they were not fully welcome at America 's elite universities less than a century ago , the writer argues . ( credit : DAVID SWANSON/REUTERS ) <h> ' Pleased ' with resolution <p> The other three cases involved the targeting of a Jewish student body president at UC Santa Barbara ; allegations of " anti-Zionist propaganda " posted in the Critical Race and Ethnic Studies department of UC Santa Cruz ; and UC San Diego 's alleged failure to respond to harmful activity from its Students for Justice in Palestine chapter . <p> In a statement to the Jewish Telegraphic Agency , the UC system said it was " pleased " with the resolution agreement and that it " unequivocally rejects anti-Semitism , Islamophobia , and all forms of harassment and discrimination . " The statement pointed to other steps the school said it had taken lately to address the issue , including establishing its own office of civil rights , an anti-discrimination policy , and new limits on protests and other activities . <p> As part of the resolution agreement , the UC system agreed to annual Title VI training for staff and campus police , to report more information to OCR about how its campuses will respond to harassment complaints , and annual audits and regular campus climate assessments for the five campuses mentioned in the complaint . <p> Six of the nine complaints involved harassment against Jewish and Israeli students ; OCR said it dismissed one of those complaints , involving a Jewish UCLA student who said SJP had blocked her from joining the group , due to lack of evidence . The other three complaints involved harassment against Muslim , Arab or Palestinian students . <p> Justin Samuels , a non-Jewish conservative legal activist whose complaint triggered one of the UC Davis investigations , told JTA he was " happy to have helped " in their resolution . Samuels has been active in filing Title VI complaints related to campus antisemitism in the wake of the Oct. 7 , 2023 , Hamas attacks . <p> He added , " I expect the Trump administration to be a lot more proactive on shared ancestry discrimination . " <p> OCR has continued to resolve antisemitism-related Title VI cases since the election , though dozens more remain active in its system . A separate resolution agreement , also announced Friday , ruled that the University of Cincinnati did not appropriately respond to complaints of discrimination against Jewish students related to a " Spooky Zionist " student gathering . <p> The university similarly agreed to regularly report its handling of discrimination cases to the office , and to additional employee training and campus climate assessments . <p> " The university appeared to operate under the mistaken understanding that if a complainant could not identify a perpetrator by name ; the conduct was not directed at a specific individual ; the conduct involved multiple perpetrators or a registered student organization ; or the conduct occurred off campus , the university did not have an obligation to address alleged harassment , " the office determined in a statement .
