Text ID: t016096
Group:   global_north_2024_12
File:    corpus/04_now_screened_iqr/global_north_2024_12/us/118513423.txt

Score (f3_pos): 15
Loading words (f3_pos), N=15: campus, student, faculty, administrator, university, arrest, college, academic, judge, protest, antisemitic, class, activist, activity, school
<h> After JTA published the president 's correspondence , faculty accused him of inappropriate scrutiny . <p> Cornell University 's Jewish interim president is facing growing blowback from higher education groups over emails published by the Jewish Telegraphic Agency last month , in which he raised objections to an upcoming class on Gaza . <p> Michael Kotlikoff 's remarks , which JTA reported on Nov. 11 , were a violation of academic freedom , say representatives of the American Association of University Professors and the Middle East Studies Association . The episode is the latest instance of campus scrutiny over Israel shifting from protests to the classroom , more than a year removed from the Oct. 7 , 2023 , Hamas attacks that launched the war in Gaza . <p> In the email , Kotlikoff expressed his objections to a new course entitled " Gaza , Indigeneity , Resistance , " scheduled to be taught next term by Jewish professor Eric Cheyfitz , a pro-Palestinian activist who teaches in the school 's American Indian and Indigenous Studies program . Writing to a different Jewish professor , Kotlikoff said he was " extremely disappointed " with " the course 's apparent lack of openness and objectivity , " and promised to work with other departments to offer alternative courses on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . <p> The email , which Kotlikoff says was never meant to be publicized , has prompted anger over the past week as the story gained traction in the Cornell Daily Sun , the student newspaper . Risley Residential College , Cornell University , Ithaca , New York . ( credit : Wikimedia Commons ) <p> " Kotlikoff 's remarks are an egregious threat to bedrock principles of academic freedom , as well as Cornell 's commitment to ' any person , any study . ' They raise the specter of administrative interference in faculty control over curricular decisions and course instruction , " Risa Lieberwitz , the Jewish president of the university 's AAUP chapter , wrote in an open letter . <p> Like other universities , the Ivy League school has faced numerous controversies over Israel politics and antisemitism since Oct. 7 , 2023 , with leaders and faculty frequently clashing over the limits of acceptable response . A student was arrested for threatening Jewish students ; a professor was placed on leave for commenting that he felt " exhilarated " by the attacks ; and administrators were recorded promising broader surveillance of pro-Palestinian faculty during a meeting with Hillel parents . <h> Academic freedom <p> All this has led to deeper concerns that schools like Cornell could meaningfully curtail academic freedom in the name of protecting Jewish students , especially under a second Trump administration , as the president-elect has sworn to crack down on universities for " turning our students into communists and terrorists . " <p> While Kotlikoff vowed not to interfere with the class itself , his critics say his comments were a form of inappropriate scrutiny over faculty . Cheyfitz and his allies also said the professor has received hate mail as a result of his course being publicized . <p> Lieberwitz 's letter added that the president 's comments " suggest that , despite repeated disavowals , the leadership of the University not only intends to scrutinize the in-class activities of Cornell faculty but is actively doing so where it is deemed politically desirable . " <p> Earlier this year , amid the Gaza war and calls for the boycott of Israel , AAUP dropped its longstanding opposition to academic boycotts . The Middle East Studies Association , an international group for academics focused on the region that itself endorsed a boycott of Israel in 2022 and has accused it of " genocidal violence , " also accused Kotlikoff of infringing on academic freedom . <p> " You are of course entitled to your opinion about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and the proposed course , " the group 's president and academic freedom chair wrote in an open letter . But , they said , " your remarks may compromise the willingness of Cornell faculty to offer courses that deal with controversial issues , " as well as affect the judgment of curriculum-reviewing committees . <p> Meanwhile , the Jewish professor who prompted the row by sharing Kotlikoff 's email with JTA says he has no regrets . <p> " If a course such as the one on Gaza being offered by Professor Cheyfitz can not withstand criticism , perhaps it 's its underlying premise , not the criticism , that should be scrutinized , " Menachem Rosensaft , an adjunct professor in the law school who first raised his concerns about the class with the school president , wrote to JTA on Thursday . <p> In Rosensaft 's view , his objections to the course have nothing to do with academic freedom . Instead , he believes the Gaza course -- which promises to frame the conflict through a settler-colonial lens , one that Israel 's defenders insist does not apply to the region 's history -- is analogous to classes promoting slavery , misogyny , or other values that would not be tolerated at a modern university . He wrote that the course would promote a narrative that " constitutes antisemitism on steroids . " <p> Speaking to Inside Higher Ed , Kotlikoff defended his right to share his personal opinions on a course . " I would not publicly comment on the decision of a curriculum committee or a colleague 's choice of course material , " he said , while adding , " if there are antisemitic , racist , other incidents that are directly related to Cornell , I certainly reserve the right to comment on those and reassure the community around those issues . " <p> Cheyfitz , for his part , still plans to teach the course , and says criticisms of it were based only on a brief course description . Citing a just-released report from Amnesty International , the human rights NGO , accusing Israel of genocide -- a charge that Israel and its defenders reject as spurious -- he told JTA that his critics would be judged harshly : " History will mark scholars like Rosensaft for what they are : apologists for genocide , " he said .
