<h> Gaza cultural heritage brought to light in Geneva <p> GENEVA - Archaeological treasures from the Gaza Strip are going on display in Geneva , with the Swiss city protecting the heritage of a territory devastated by a year of war . Amphoras , statuettes , vases , oil lamps and figurines are among the 44 objects unearthed in Gaza going on show in the " Patrimony in Peril " exhibition at the Museum of Art and History ( MAH ) . " It 's a part of Gaza 's soul . Its identity , even , " Beatrice Blandin , the exhibition 's curator , told AFP . " Heritage is the history of this strip of land , the history of the people who live there . " The artefacts are from a collection of more than 530 objects that have been stored in crates in a secure warehouse in Geneva since 2007 , unable to return to Gaza . <p> The exhibition , which runs from Saturday until February 9 , also includes artefacts from Sudan , Syria and Libya . It was staged to mark the 70th anniversary of the 1954 Hague Convention for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The exhibition looks at the responsibility of museums in saving such property from damage , looting and conflict , reminding visitors that deliberately destroying heritage is a war crime . " The forces of obscurantism understand that cultural property is what is at stake for civilisation because they have never stopped wanting to destroy this heritage , as in Mosul , " said Geneva city councillor Alfonso Gomez -- a reference to the northern Iraqi city captured by the Islamic State militant group in 2014 . MAH director Marc-Olivier Wahler told AFP : " Unfortunately , in the event of a conflict , many aggressors attack cultural heritage because it is obviously erasing the identity of a people , erasing its history . " Thankfully , " there are museums , rules and conventions that protect this heritage " . Since Israel 's offensive in Gaza began following the October 7 , 2023 attack by Hamas , cultural sites in the Palestinian territory have paid a heavy price , says the United Nations ' cultural organisation . UNESCO has verified damage to 69 sites : 10 religious sites , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of movable cultural property , six monuments , one museum and seven archaeological sites . At a time when Palestinian cultural heritage is " the victim of unprecedented destruction , the patrimonial value of the Gazan objects held in Geneva seems greater than ever " , said the MAH . Some of the objects belonged to the Palestinian Authority . The rest belonged to the Palestinian entrepreneur Jawdat Khoudary , but he later gave ownership of them to the PA in 2018 . These artefacts , evoking daily , civil and religious life from the Bronze Age to the Ottoman era , arrived in Geneva in 2006 to be shown at the " Gaza at the Crossroads of Civilisations " exhibition , inaugurated by Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas . They had been meant to form the foundation of an archaeological museum to be built in Gaza . Instead , they were stuck in Geneva for 17 years , the conditions for their safe return having never been met . " At the time when the objects were due to leave , Hamas took over the Gaza Strip and there were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This " coincidence of circumstances , " she said , ultimately saved the artefacts : the rest of Khoudary 's private collection , which remained in Gaza , has been " totally destroyed " since October 7 last year . Following a new cooperation agreement signed last September between the Palestinian Authority and Geneva , the Swiss city has committed to looking after the artefacts for as long as necessary . The MAH also served as a refuge , in 1939 when the Spanish Republicans evacuated by train the greatest treasures from the Museo del Prado in Madrid and several other major collections . And last year , Geneva hosted an exhibition of Ukrainian works of art . According to the Swiss Museums Association , Switzerland , along with counterparts in other countries , has also been able to help more than 200 museums in Ukraine preserve their collections after Russia 's full-scale invasion in February 2022.
