<h> PPPW condemns Israeli aggression against Iran <p> ISLAMABAD - The leadership of the Pakistan Peoples Party Workers ( PPPW ) has strongly condemned the unprovoked Israeli military strike on the Islamic Republic of Iran 's nuclear installations in the wee hours of Friday . The leaders of PPPW who condemned the Israeli agression include its President Dr Safdar Ali Abbasi , Political Assistant to Shaheed Mohtarma Benazir Bhutto Naheed Khan , Senior Vice President Fayyaz Ali Khan , Finance Secretary Ibne Mohammad Rizvi and Vice President Advocate Amjad Baloch . <p> This brazen act of aggression , resulting in the martyrdom of six prominent Iranian nuclear scientists -- including Dr. Fereydoon Abbasi and Dr. Mohammad Mehdi Tehranchi -- and severe damage to critical infrastructure , constitutes a clear violation of Iran 's sovereignty and international law . The deliberate targeting of civilian and scientific facilities is a war crime under the Geneva Conventions and reflects a reckless disregard for the principles of peace , diplomacy , and non-intervention . The Pakistan Peoples Party Workers views this attack as part of a dangerous and escalating pattern of militarism by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continue to imperil regional and global stability . The expansion of violence from the already war-ravaged Gaza Strip to Iranian territory marks a grave turning point with potentially catastrophic consequences , including the threat of a broader regional or even nuclear conflict . <p> The PPPW urges the United Nations , the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation ( OIC ) , and all responsible world powers to take urgent and concrete measures to deter further Israeli belligerence . The failure of the international community to enforce international norms and uphold human rights in the Middle East has already emboldened acts of impunity -- this must not continue unchecked . We reaffirm our solidarity with the people of Iran and all oppressed nations struggling to defend their sovereignty and dignity in the face of imperial aggression . The Pakistan Peoples Party Workers stands firmly for a just international order rooted in respect for international law , human rights , and the peaceful resolution of disputes .
