<h> Israel , Iran launch fresh strikes as war escalates <p> JERUSALEM/TEHRAN - Israel and Iran yesterday launched fresh attacks on each other , killing scores of civilians and raising fears of a wider conflict . Israeli rescue teams combed through rubble of residential buildings destroyed by Iranian missiles , using sniffer dogs and heavy excavators to look for survivors after at least 10 people , including children , were killed , raising the two-day toll to 13 . Iranian media reported explosions in the northeastern city of Mashhad as Israel kept up its attacks on Iran for a third day . " Two locations in Mashhad suffered explosions and fires , " a media report said , adding that " air defences were activated in the area " . It said the blasts were heard near the city 's Shahid Hasheminejad Airport . " No damage has been reported to the airport buildings or runway , " it added . In Iran , images from the capital showed the night sky lit up by a huge blaze at a fuel depot after Israel began strikes against Iran 's oil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economy and the functioning of the Iranian state.Iran has not given a full death toll but said 78 people , including 14 Iranian nuclear scientists , were killed on Friday and scores more have died since , including in a single attack that killed 60 on Saturday , half of them children , in a 14-storey apartment block flattened in Tehran.Israel had launched " Operation Rising Lion " with a surprise attack on Friday morning that wiped out the top echelon of Iran 's military command and damaged its nuclear sites , and says the campaign will continue to escalate in coming days . Iran has vowed to " open the gates of hell " in retaliation . The Israeli military warned Iranians living near weapons facilities to evacuate . " Iran will pay a heavy price for the murder of civilians , women and children , " Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said from a balcony overlooking blown-out apartments in the town of Bat Yam where six people were killed.An official said Israel still had a long list of targets in Iran and declined to say how long the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two " dual-use " fuel sites that supported military and nuclear operations , he said.While on the other side , President Masoud Pezeshkian said Iran 's responses will grow " more decisive and severe " if Israel 's hostile actions continue . Meanwhile , Yemen 's Houthi movement announced on Sunday that it launched ballistic missiles towards central Israel in coordination with Iran , marking the first time the Iran-backed group has publicly declared joint military action with Tehran . In a televised statement , Houthi military spokesperson Yehya Sarea said the group fired several missiles at the Israeli city of Jaffa within the past 24 hours.He stated the assault was " in triumph for the oppressed Palestinian and Iranian peoples " and confirmed that the strike was carried out in coordination with recent Iranian military operations targeting Israel.The announcement comes amid escalating regional tensions , as the Houthis , who control much of northern Yemen , have intensified attacks on Israel and shipping routes in the Red Sea since November 2023 . This development highlights deepening military cooperation between Iran and its regional allies , potentially expanding the Israel-Gaza @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the Israeli strike , a missile launched from Yemen landed in Hebron , located in the Israeli-occupied West Bank , according to Israeli authorities.Meanwhile , the Israeli army called on citizens to take shelter after detecting new missile launches from Iran towards Israel . " Sirens sounded in several areas across Israel following the identification of missiles from Iran toward the state of Israel , " the military said in a statement . " At this time , the ( air force ) is operating to intercept and strike where necessary to eliminate the threat , " it said , instructing citizens to seek shelter.Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu warned that Iran would face " a very heavy price " for the killing of Israeli civilians , as intense hostilities between the two countries entered their third consecutive day .
