<p> ISLAMABAD -- The Government of Pakistan has decided to formally recommend President Donald J. Trump for the 2026 Nobel Peace Prize , in recognition of his decisive diplomatic intervention and pivotal leadership during the recent India-Pakistan crisis . <p> The international community bore witness to unprovoked and unlawful Indian aggression , which constituted a grave violation of Pakistan 's sovereignty and territorial integrity , resulting in the tragic loss of innocent lives , including women , children , and the elderly . In exercising its fundamental right to self-defense , Pakistan launched Operation Bunyanum Marsoos -- a measured , resolute , and precise military response , carefully executed to re-establish deterrence and defend its territorial integrity while consciously avoiding civilian harm . <p> At a moment of heightened regional turbulence , President Trump demonstrated great strategic foresight and stellar statesmanship through robust diplomatic engagement with both Islamabad and New Delhi which de-escalated a rapidly deteriorating situation , ultimately securing a ceasefire and averting a broader conflict between the two nuclear states that would have had catastrophic consequences for millions of people in the region and beyond . This intervention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peacemaker and his commitment to conflict resolution through dialogue . <p> The Government of Pakistan also acknowledges and greatly admires President Trump 's sincere offers to help resolve the longstanding dispute of Jammu and Kashmir between India and Pakistan -- an issue that lies at the heart of regional instability . Durable peace in South Asia would remain elusive until the implementation of United Nations Security Council resolutions concerning Jammu and Kashmir . <p> President Trump 's leadership during the 2025 Pakistan India crisis manifestly showcases the continuation of his legacy of pragmatic diplomacy and effective peace-building . Pakistan remains hopeful that his earnest efforts will continue to contribute towards regional and global stability , particularly in the context of ongoing crises in the Middle East , including the humanitarian tragedy unfolding in Gaza and the deteriorating escalation involving Iran .
