<h> Editorial : Intensifying war <p> The world is watching helplessly as the situation in the Middle East is spiralling out of control and the theatre of conflict is set to expand further with the Israeli forces launching ground incursions in Southern Lebanon targeting the hideouts of Hezbollah . The Iran-backed militant group stands nearly decimated , and its command structure decapitated after its leader Hassan Nasrallah , and several other key commanders were killed in Israeli missile strikes in Beirut . Ever since the October 7 Hamas terror attacks on Israel , Tel Aviv has gone berserk , ignored calls for restraint from world leaders and mercilessly bombarded Gaza with disastrous consequences , raising fears of a broader war in the region . The death of Nasrallah will undoubtedly have a far-reaching impact on the group 's morale and regional standing . For Iran , the loss of Nasrallah is as much of a blow as it is for Hezbollah . Apart from Hezbollah , Iran has several proxies across the region -- the Houthis in Yemen , and numerous groups in Syria and Iraq . It could well ask these groups to step up their attacks on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whatever response Iran chooses , it will likely calibrate it to be just short of triggering an all-out war that it can not hope to win . The launch of ground operations by Israel marks a dangerous escalation in the conflict which threatens to engulf Iran too , a gloomy prospect from which no one can emerge a winner . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's unhinged sledgehammer tactics are worrisome , not just for the region but also for the world at large . Even the United States and its western allies have been ineffective in reducing the hostilities , despite being in a position to influence Israeli leadership . A deeply fractured United Nations Security Council can not be expected to bring peace to the region . Netanyahu has directly addressed the people of Iran and promised them ' freedom ' from their war-mongering government . Hezbollah 's humiliation , and the damage sustained through the infiltration of its devices and killings of leaders and commanders have made it harder for the group to step back without destroying its credibility . It has made a ceasefire in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from de-escalating , Israel is continuously pummelling the region to force hundreds of thousands of Palestinian civilians out of northern Gaza and to besiege Hamas militants to force the release of hostages . By refusing to reach a ceasefire in Gaza , which is the key to stopping the escalating fight with Hezbollah , Israel is dragging the region to an all-out war . Clearly , Netanyahu 's political survival depends on maintaining this state of war , even if it leads to catastrophe . He knows that Israeli society will not remove their leader while the country is in danger . The US is no longer claiming that a ceasefire and hostage release deal is within sight .
