<h> For Israel 's sake , put the brakes on war <h> Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Benjamin Netanyahu discussed measures to counter terrorism , restore peace , and secure the release of hostages . While military action continues , the conflict with Hamas and Hezbollah threatens Israel 's security and regional stability . An ongoing war complicates international economic ventures and alliances , highlighting the need for a political solution . <p> Acting against terrorists , restoring peace and stability , and return of all hostages were at the core of the call between Narendra Modi and Benjamin Netanyahu on Monday . Peace is n't just the right choice but the smart one for Israel - and Netanyahu . Hamas will have to release all remaining hostages and bodies of those who died in captivity . On its part , Israel will have to stop military action in Gaza and Lebanon . <p> Persisting with the war may give Bibi an avenging strongman aura , but it 's not helping Israel . The conflict has now moved beyond Hamas and Gaza to the north with Hezbollah in Lebanon , coupled with the warning that Bibi issued Iran at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may seem like justification for continued military action . But Netanyahu should know better . Nature abhors a vacuum ; a new leadership will emerge . Worse , these terror groups will have rich pickings of recruits from the war-weary , ravaged Palestinian youth . It will also reactivate inter-terror group coordination , endangering exactly what Israel has gone out to fortify : its security . The long war is making actualising the India-Middle East-Europe Economic Corridor ( IMEC ) difficult , undermining the critical economic venture . This helps China , leaving the field open for its ventures such as the currently spluttering BRI . As the war morphs into a shadow conflict between Israel and Iran , the troika of China-Russia-Iran gets tighter , with consequences for the Indo-Pacific and Europe , and impacting democracies beyond that include India . <p> Netanyahu 's legal and political problems are reasons enough for him to persist with the war . But in doing so , he is endangering the safety and security of Israel . He must now allow for a political solution to take over .
