<h> Israeli strikes kill family of 8 in Gaza , destroy century-old market in Lebanon <p> Deir Al-Balah ( Gaza Strip ) : An Israeli strike on the central Gaza Strip killed a family of eight , Palestinian medical officials said Sunday , as Israeli forces battled Palestinian militants in the territory 's north and airstrikes destroyed a century-old market in southern Lebanon.The strike in Gaza late Saturday hit a home in the Nuseirat refugee camp , killing parents and their six children , who ranged in age from 8 to 23 , according to the Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital in nearby Deir al-Balah , where the bodies were taken.It said a further seven people were wounded , including two women and a child in critical condition . An Associated Press reporter counted the bodies.A year into the war with Hamas , Israel continues to strike what it says are militant targets in Gaza nearly every day . The military says it tries to avoid harming civilians and blames their deaths on Hamas and other armed groups because they operate in densely populated areas . In recent months , it has repeatedly struck schools being used as shelters by displaced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ air and ground campaigns against Hamas in Gaza and Hezbollah in Lebanon , and is expected to strike Iran in retaliation for a missile attack earlier this month , though it has not said how or when . Iran supports both militant groups and has said it will respond to any Israeli attack.Bodies rot in the streets as fighting rages in northern GazaIn northern Gaza , Israeli air and ground forces have been attacking Jabaliya , where the military says militants have regrouped . Over the past year , Israeli forces have repeatedly returned to the built-up refugee camp , which dates back to the 1948 war surrounding Israel 's creation , and other areas.Israel has ordered the full evacuation of northern Gaza , including Gaza City . An estimated 400,000 people remain in the north after a mass evacuation ordered in the opening weeks of the war . The Palestinians fear Israel intends to permanently depopulate the north to establish military bases or Jewish settlements there . The United Nations says no food has entered northern Gaza since Oct 1 . The military confirmed Saturday that hospitals were included @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a specific timetable . It said a medical convoy scheduled to transfer patients from the Kamal Adwan Hospital in recent days was cancelled for security reasons -- without elaborating -- but that the convoy had delivered fuel to the hospital on Saturday.Dr Mohamed Salha , director of the Awda hospital , said it was among three hospitals in the north , including Kamal Adwan , that had received small shipments of fuel that would only last for a matter of days . He said they also need medicine and medical supplies.He said casualties are still streaming in and his hospital alone is doing 12 to 15 operations a day.Fares Abu Hamza , an official with the Gaza Health Ministry 's emergency service , said there are a " large number of martyrs " still uncollected from the streets and under the rubble . " We are unable to reach them , " he told The Associated Press , adding that street dogs are eating some of the remains.The war began when Hamas-led militants stormed into southern Israel on Oct 7 , 2023 , killing some 1,200 people , mostly civilians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still being held in Gaza , a third of whom are believed to be dead.Israel 's bombardment and ground invasions of Gaza have killed over 42,000 Palestinians , according to Gaza 's Health Ministry , and left much of the territory in ruins . Palestinian medical officials do not say whether those killed by Israeli forces are militants or civilians , but say women and children make up over half the fatalities . Israel says it has killed over 17,000 fighters , without providing evidence.Israeli airstrikes destroy Ottoman-era market in LebanonIsraeli airstrikes destroyed an Ottoman-era market in the southern city of Nabatiyeh overnight , killing at least one person and wounding four more . Lebanon 's Civil Defence said it battled fires in 12 residential buildings and 40 shops in the market , which dates back to 1910 . " Our livelihoods have all been levelled to the ground , " said Ahmad Fakih , whose corner shop was destroyed.Rescuers were searching for survivors and remains in the pancaked buildings early Sunday as Israeli drones buzzed overhead . Nabatiyeh was one of dozens of communities across southern Lebanon that Israel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hosts people who have already fled.Lebanon 's Hezbollah , which is allied with Hamas , began firing rockets into Israel on Oct 8 , 2023 , drawing retaliatory airstrikes . The conflict dramatically escalated in September with a wave of Israeli strikes that killed Hezbollah 's leader , Hassan Nasrallah , and most of his senior commanders . Israel launched a ground operation into southern Lebanon earlier this month.In a separate incident , the Lebanese Red Cross said paramedics were searching for casualties in the wreckage of a house destroyed by an Israeli airstrike in southern Lebanon on Sunday when a second strike left four paramedics with concussions and damaged two ambulances.It said the rescue operation had been coordinated with UN peacekeepers , who informed the Israeli side . There was no immediate comment from the Israeli military.Israeli forces have repeatedly fired upon first responders and UN peacekeepers since the start of the ground operation . The military has accused Hezbollah of using ambulances to ferry fighters and weapons and says Hezbollah operates in the vicinity of the peacekeepers , without providing evidence.At least 2,255 people have been killed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than 1,400 people since September , according to Lebanon 's Health Ministry , which does not say how many were Hezbollah fighters . At least 54 people have been killed in the rocket attacks on Israel , nearly half of them soldiers.Iran , which supports Hezbollah and Hamas , launched around 180 ballistic missiles at Israel to avenge the killing of Nasrallah ; an Iranian general who was with him ; and Ismail Haniyeh , the political leader of Hamas , who died in an explosion in Iran 's capital in July that was widely blamed on Israel . <p> State Times Group is the only media vehicle of J &amp; K , breaking language and geographical barriers , connecting J &amp; K to Delhi and the rest of India . Winner of J&amp;K Government 's Best Media Award in 2007 , and the winner of readers ' trust since 30-November-1996.
