<h> Putin ends BRICS summit that sought to expand Russia 's global clout <p> PTI Updated : October 24 , 2024 22:43 IST <p> Kazan , Oct 24 ( AP ) Russian President Vladimir Putin on Thursday closed a summit of the BRICS bloc of developing economies , praising its role as a counterbalance to what he called the West 's " perverse methods " . The three-day summit in the city of Kazan was attended by leaders or representatives of 36 countries , highlighting the failure of US-led efforts to isolate Russia over its actions in Ukraine . The conflict came up repeatedly at the meeting , which saw the first visit to Russia from UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres in more than two years and drew an angry reaction from Kyiv . Guterres called for " a just peace " in Ukraine , in line with the UN Charter , international law and General Assembly resolutions . He also urged an immediate end to the fighting in Gaza , Lebanon and Sudan . At a news conference Thursday night , Putin was asked about former US President Donald Trump 's promise to end the fighting in Ukraine . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ( is ) he spoke about the desire to do everything to end the conflict in Ukraine , " Putin said . " It seems to me that he said it sincerely . We certainly welcome statements of this kind , no matter who makes them . " The summit covered the deepening of financial cooperation , including the development of alternatives to Western-dominated payment systems , efforts to settle regional conflicts and expansion of the BRICS group of nations . The alliance that initially included Brazil , Russia , India , China and South Africa when it was founded in 2009 has expanded to embrace Iran , Egypt , Ethiopia , the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia . Turkiye , Azerbaijan and Malaysia have formally applied to become members , and several other countries have expressed interest in joining . The Kremlin touted the summit as " the largest foreign policy event ever held " by Russia . Speaking at what was dubbed the " BRICS Plus " session , which included countries that are considering joining the bloc , Putin accused the West of trying to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ illegal unilateral sanctions , blatant protectionism , manipulation of currency and stock markets , and relentless foreign influence ostensibly promoting democracy , human rights , and the climate change agenda " . " Such perverse methods and approaches - -- to put it bluntly - -- lead to the emergence of new conflicts and the aggravation of old disagreements , " Putin said . " One example of this is Ukraine , which is being used to create critical threats to Russia 's security , while ignoring our vital interests , our just concerns , and the infringement of the rights of Russian-speaking people . " Russia has specifically pushed for the creation of a new payment system that would offer an alternative to the global bank messaging network SWIFT and allow Moscow to dodge Western sanctions and trade with partners . In a joint declaration Wednesday , participants voiced concern about " the disruptive effect of unlawful unilateral coercive measures , including illegal sanctions " and reiterated their commitment to enhancing financial cooperation within BRICS . They noted the benefits of " faster , low-cost , more efficient , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the principle of minimising trade barriers and non-discriminatory access " . China 's President Xi Jinping has emphasized the bloc 's role in ensuring global security . Xi noted that China and Brazil have put forward a peace plan for Ukraine and sought to rally broader international support for it . Ukraine has rejected the proposal . " We should promote the de-escalation of the situation as soon as possible and pave the way for a political settlement , " Xi said . Putin and Xi had announced a " no-limits " partnership weeks before Russia sent troops into Ukraine in 2022 . They already met twice earlier this year , in Beijing in May and at a Shanghai Cooperation Organization summit in Kazakhstan in July . Russia 's cooperation with India also has flourished as New Delhi sees Moscow as a time-tested partner since the Cold War despite Russia 's close ties with India 's rival , China . While Western allies want New Delhi to be more active in persuading Moscow to end the fighting in Ukraine , Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi has avoided condemning Russia while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Guterres urged an immediate end to the fighting in Gaza , Lebanon , Ukraine and Sudan . " We need peace in Ukraine , a just peace in line with the UN Charter , international law and General Assembly resolutions , " he said . Russia 's Kremlin-controlled media touted the summit as a massive policy coup that left the West fearing the loss of its global clout . State TV shows and news bulletins underscored that BRICS countries account for about half the world 's population comprising the " global majority " and challenging Western " hegemony " . TV hosts elaborately quoted Western media reports saying that the summit highlighted the failure to isolate Moscow . " The West , the US , Washington , Brussels , London ended up isolating themselves , " said Yevgeny Popov , host of a popular political talk show on state channel Rossiya 1 . ( AP ) PYPY <p> ( This story has not been edited by THE WEEK and is auto-generated from PTI )
