<p> Attacks:There are no safe places for the militarily-dominated population in Gaza , who find themselves subjected to airstrikes and other missile attackson buildings , homes and many essentialfacilities , as well as constant gunfire and invasions by Israeli forces.The Israeli Navy continues to fire missiles , targeting facilities and buildings along the entire Gaza shoreline . <p> Victims:19more people have been killedwithin the past 48 hours , bringing the total number killed in Gaza since 7 Octoberto at least44,382 . Another 72have been wounded , bringing that total to 105,142 . The daily average number of men , women and children killed in Gaza is at least 105 ; thatof those injured is nowmore than250 . <p> The United Nations Agency for Palestinian Refugees ( UNRWA ) said in a statement that , since October 2023 , Gaza has been witnessing the most intense bombing targeting civilians since World War II . Meanwhile , Israeli forces continued to carry out massacres in the Strip , especially in central Gaza , killing and wounding scores of Palestinians . According to the Palestinian Health Ministry ( Gaza ) , 44,330 Palestinians have been killed , and 104,933 wounded in Israel 's ongoing genocide in Gaza starting on 7 October 2023 . <p> The Gaza Civil Defence , on Friday , said as many as 100 Palestinians were killed in Israeli attacks and massacres in northern Gaza in the past 24 hours , Anadolu Agency reports . In a statement , Civil Defence spokesman , Mahmoud Basal , said 75 of the victims were killed in Israeli air strikes on two homes in Beit Lahia , while the others were targeted in Jabalia and other areas of northern Gaza . " The number of martyrs since the start of the Israeli military operation in northern Gaza ( on 5 October ) has reached 2,700 Palestinians , and 10,000 others are injured , " Basal told Anadolu . <p> Overall , the Israeli onslaught that began after the 7 October 2023 , Hamas attacks have killed more than 44,000 people in Gaza , and the enclave is now uninhabitable . Last week , the International Criminal Court issued arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister , Benjamin Netanyahu , and his former Defence Minister , Yoav Gallant , for war crimes and crimes against humanity in Gaza . <p> Palestinians in the north of the Gaza Strip have been living under relentless Israeli bombardment for days , and say their situation is ' indescribable ' . Palestinians on Thursday described a " real life horror movie " in the Gaza Strip 's north as ferocious Israeli air strikes continued across the devastated territory , a day after a ceasefire began in neighbouring Lebanon . Israel on 6 October began an intensive siege and air and ground attacks in Jabalia , and then expanded it to Beit Lahia . <p> It is believed to be implementing a " General 's Plan " designed to kill , starve and expel the remaining inhabitants of north Gaza " We are living in a real life horror movie , the situation is indescribable , the Israeli bombing does n't stop from the air or on the ground , " said Umm Ahmad Lubbad ( aged 52 ) , from Beit Lahia . Abu Muhammad Al-Madhoun , displaced from Jabalia refugee camp to the central Gaza Strip , said the situation was " catastrophic " . " It is getting worse every day , " he said , adding : " The bombing does not stop . " The Gaza Health Ministry said at least 37 people were killed on Thursday across the territory by Israeli air strikes . Hossam Abu Safiyeh , Director of the Kamal Adwan Hospital in the north , described the situation there as " tragic and very difficult " . <p> Union president denounces Israel 's war on Gaza as a ' holocaust ' at a fiery event where pro-Israel speaker was ejected for harassing Palestinian student . The prestigious Oxford Union voted by an overwhelming majority that Israel is an " apartheid state responsible for genocide " ' . The society 's president denounced Israel 's war on Gaza as a " holocaust " . <p> The exclusive debating society , founded in 1823 , held an unprecedented debate on Thursday night on the motion : " This house believes Israel is an apartheid state responsible for genocide " . The motion was carried with a thumping majority of 278 to 59 . At one point , the debate became so fiery that Opposition speaker , Yoseph Haddad , an ardent supporter of Israel , was told to leave the chamber . Haddad , who produced several props and posters during his speech , wore a T-shirt displaying a photo of killed Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrullah and the caption : " Your terrorist hero is dead ! We did that . " <p> Israeli Army attack -- 1 killed:Salfit -- 12:25 , Israeli troops opened fire on and killed a man , Samer Muhammad Salih Hussein , claiming that he had fired at a settler bus . <p> Israeli Army attack : Hebron -- 16:00 , the Israelimilitary opened fire on a motor vehicle , near the village of Qalqas , claiming that itbeen involved in the shootingtowards a settler bus . <p> Home invasions and population -- control : Bethlehem -- 20:20 , Israeli Occupation forces , firing stun grenades , invaded and closed the entrances to Nahalin as well as the village of Husan , invading homes in Nahalin and declaring both areas to be closed military zones . <p> Israeli Army population -- control:Ramallah -- 11:30 , Israeli forces took prisoner a man , Yahya Yousef Muhammad Hamed , when he reported , as ordered , for interrogation at Israeli Military Intelligence . <p> Israeli Army population -- control:Qalqiliya -- 12:50-15:00 , the Israeli Army closed the main road between the towns of Jayus and Azzun . <p> Israeli Army population -- control:Qalqiliya -- 14:00-15:00 , the occupation forces closed the road between the town of Jayus and the village of Nabi Elias . <p> Israeli Army population -- control:Qalqiliya -- 19:15 , Israeli troops blocked the road between Jayus and the village of Nabi Elias . <p> Israeli Army population -- control:Salfit -- 12:40 -- 14:00 , the Israelimilitary closed the northern entrance to the city . <p> Israeli Army population -- control : Hebron -- 16:10 , Israeli soldiers closedto trafficthe entrances to the al-Fahs area ( south of the city ) , the Zif village road junctionand entrances to the towns of Dura and al-Samou , as well as the village of Karma and the al-Fawar refugee camp . <p> Leslie Bravery is a Londoner with vivid World War Two memories of the Nazi blitz on his home town . In 1947/1948 His father explained to him what was happening to the Palestinians thus : " Any ideology or political movement that creates refugees in the process of realising its ambitions must be inhuman and should be opposed and condemned as unacceptable . " What followed confirmed this assessment of the Zionist entity a hundredfold . Now a retired flamenco guitarist , with a lifelong interest in the tragedy of what happened to the Palestinian people , he tries to publicise their plight . Because the daily injustices they suffer barely get a mention in the mainstream news media , Leslie edits/compiles a daily newsletter , In Occupied Palestine , for the Palestine Human Rights Campaign . These days , to preserve his sanity , he enjoys taking part in a drama group whenever possible !
