<p> The arrest warrants by the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) against Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant are a diplomatic disaster for Israel , reported The Economist , a ' hard stigma ' for the Israeli leader , wrote The Guardian , and a ' major blow ' , said others . <p> But a term that many seem to agree on is that the warrants represent an earthquake , though many are doubtful that Netanyahu would actually see his day in court . <p> The pro-Palestine camp , which as of late represents the majority of humankind , is torn between disbelief , skepticism , and optimism . It turned out that the international system has a pulse , after all , though faint , but is enough to rekindle hope that legal and moral accountability are still possible . <p> This mixture of feelings and strong language is a reflection of several important and interconnected experiences : one , the unprecedented extermination of a whole population which is currently being carried out by Israel against Palestinians in Gaza ; two , the utter failure of the international community to stop the grisly genocide in the Strip ; and , finally , the fact that the international legal system has historically failed to hold Israel , or any of the West 's allies anywhere , accountable to international law . <p> Advertisement - scroll to continue reading <p> The real earthquake is the fact that this is the first time in the history of the ICC that a pro-western leader is held accountable for war crimes . Indeed , historically , the vast majority of arrest warrants , and actual detention of accused war criminals seemed to target the Global South , and Africa , in particular . <p> Israel , however , is not an ordinary ' western ' state . Zionism was a western-colonial invention , and the creation of Israel was only possible because of unhindered , die-hard western support . <p> Since its inception on the ruins of historic Palestine in 1948 , Israel has served the role of the western-colonial citadel in the Middle East . The entire Israeli political discourse has been tailored and situated within western priorities and supposed values : civilization , democracy , enlightenment , human rights and the like . <p> With time , Israel became largely an American project , embraced by American liberals and religious conservatives alike . <p> America 's religious crowds were motivated by the biblical notion that " whoever blesses Israel will be blessed , And whoever curses Israel will be cursed " . The liberals , too , held Israel within a spiritual discourse , although disproportionately favored the classification of Israel as the ' only democracy in the Middle East ' , constantly emphasizing the ' special relationship ' , the ' unbreakable bond ' and the rest . <p> Thus , it would not be an exaggeration to claim that the ICC 's indictment of Netanyahu , as a representative of the political establishment in Israel , and Gallant , as the leader of the military class , is also an indictment of the United States . <p> It is often reported that Israel would not have been able to carry on with its war , thus genocide , on Gaza without American military and political support . According to the investigative news website ProPublica , in the first year of the war , the US shipped over 50,000 tons of weaponry to Israel . <p> Mainstream American media and journalists are also culpable in that genocide . They elevated the now war criminals Netanyahu and Gallant , along with other Israeli political and military leaders , as if they were the defenders of a ' civilized world ' against the ' barbarians ' . Those in the conservative media circles portrayed them as if prophets doing God 's work against the supposed heathens of the South . <p> They , too , have been indicted by the ICC , the kind of moral indictment , and ' hard stigma ' , that can never be eradicated . <p> When Karim Khan , the ICC 's Chief Prosecutor , originally filed for arrest warrants in May , many were in doubt , and justifiably so . The Israelis felt that their country commanded the needed support to disallow such warrants in the first place . They cited previous attempts , including a Belgian court case where victims of Israeli brutality in Lebanon attempted to hold former Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon accountable for the Sabra and Shatila massacre . Not only was the case dropped in 2003 , but Belgium was pressured by the US to change its own laws so that they do not include universal jurisdiction in the case of genocide . <p> The Americans , too , were not terribly worried , as they were ready to punish ICC judges , defame Khan himself , and , according to a recent social media post by US Senator Tom Cotton , ready to ' invade the Hague ' . <p> In fact , this is not the first time that Americans , who are not signatories of the Rome Statute , thus not members of the ICC , flexed their muscles against those who merely attempted to enforce international law . In September 2020 , the US government imposed sanctions on then-Chief Prosecutor Fatou Bensouda and another senior official , Phakiso Mochochoko . <p> Even those who wanted to see accountability for the Israeli genocide were in doubt , especially as pro-Israeli western governments , like that of Germany , stepped forward to prevent the warrants from being issued . Unreasonable delays in the proceedings contributed to the skepticism , especially as Khan himself was suddenly being paraded for supposed ' sexual misconduct ' . <p> Yet , after all of this , on November 21 the arrest warrants were issued , charging Netanyahu and Gallant with alleged ' war crimes ' and ' crimes against humanity ' - the other punishable offenses within the ICC jurisdiction being genocide and aggression . <p> Considering that the world 's highest court , the International Court of Justice , has already found that it is plausible that Israel 's acts could amount to genocide and is currently investigating the case , Israel , as a state , and top Israeli leaders have suddenly , and deservingly so , become the enemies of humanity . <p> While it is right and legitimate to argue that what matters most is the tangible outcome of these cases - ending the genocide while holding the Israeli war criminals accountable - we must not miss the greater meaning of these earth-shattering events . <p> The ICJ and the ICC are essentially two western institutions created to police the world by reinforcing the double standards resulting from the post-World War II western-dominated international system . <p> They are the legal equivalent of the Bretton Woods agreement , which regulated the international monetary system to serve US western interests . Though , in theory , they championed universally commendable values , in practice they merely served as tools of control and dominance for the western order . <p> For years , the world has been in a state of obvious and irreversible change . New powers were rising and others were shrinking . Political turmoil in the US , Britain and France were only reflections of the internal struggle in the west 's ruling classes . The incredible rise of China , the war in Europe and the growing resistance in the Middle East were outcomes and accelerators of that change . <p> Thus the constant call for reforms in the post-WWII international system to reflect in a more equitable way the new global realities . Despite American-western resistance to change , new geopolitical formations continued to take place , regardless . <p> The Gaza genocide represents a watershed moment in these global dynamics . This was reflected in Karim Khan 's language when he requested the arrest warrants , stressing on the credibility of the court . " This is why we have a court , " he said in an exclusive interview with CNN on May 20 . " It 's about the equal application of the law . No people are better than another . No people anywhere are saints . " <p> The emphasis on credibility here is a culmination of the obvious loss of credibility on all fronts . This should hardly be a surprise as it was the west , the self-proclaimed champion of human rights , the very political entity that championed , defended and sustained the Israeli genocide . <p> While one would like to believe that the ICC 's arrest warrants were made exclusively for the sake of the victims of the Israeli genocide , plenty of evidence suggests that the unexpected move was a desperate western attempt at salvaging whatever little credibility it had maintained up to that moment . <p> The US government , an unrepentant violator of human rights , has maintained its strong position in defense of Israel , shaming the ICC for the warrants , not the Israeli war criminals for committing the genocide . <p> The conflict in Europe has been much more palpable , however , reflected in the position of Germany , which said it would " carefully examine " the arrest warrants but that it is " hard to imagine that we would make arrests on this basis " . <p> One remains hopeful that the shifts of global powers will eventually save international law from the hypocrisy and opportunism of the west . But what is clear for now is that the west 's own conflict will only gain momentum . Will those who created the Zionist Israeli menace be the very powers that demolish it ? One is doubtful . <p> - Dr. Ramzy Baroud is a journalist , author and the Editor of The Palestine Chronicle . He is the author of six books . His latest book , co-edited with Ilan Papp ? , is ' Our Vision for Liberation : Engaged Palestinian Leaders and Intellectuals Speak Out ' . His other books include ' My Father was a Freedom Fighter ' and ' The Last Earth ' . Baroud is a Non-resident Senior Research Fellow at the Center for Islam and Global Affairs ( CIGA ) . His website is www.ramzybaroud.net <h> Are you licensed for Scoop ? <p> Scoop is free for personal use , but you 'll need a licence for work use . This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall . Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month , and start using Scoop like a Pro .
