<p> Attacks:There are no safe places for the militarily-dominated population in Gaza , who find themselves subjected to airstrikes and other missile attackson buildings , homes and many essentialfacilities , as well as constant gunfire and invasions by Israeli forces.The Israeli Navy continues to fire missiles , targeting facilities and buildings along the entire Gaza shoreline . <p> Victims:36more people have been killedwithin the past 48 hours , bringing the total number killed in Gaza since 7 Octoberto at least44,502 . Another 96have been wounded , bringing that total to 105,454 . The daily average number of men , women and children killed in Gaza is at least 105 ; that of those injured is now more than 249 . <h> OCHA : <h> Key Highlights <p> An Emergency Medical Team was successfully deployed to Kamal Adwan Hospital , in North Gaza , for the first time in 60 days . <p> A severe shortage of medical supplies and consumables is hindering the provision of essential healthcare across the Gaza Strip , and UNRWA warns that at least 60 medications will be depleted at its health facilities by the end of the year . <p> Water production decreased by nine per cent in November , mainly due to critical fuel shortages that have resulted in a 43-per-cent drop in production by groundwater wells across Gaza . <p> Humanitarian access continued to be partly denied or impeded during November , and UNRWA had to suspend the collection of aid supplies from Kerem Shalom crossing due to insecurity and looting of humanitarian cargo . <h> Humanitarian Developments <p> Israeli bombardment from the air , land and sea continues to be reported across the Gaza Strip , resulting in further civilian casualties , displacement , and destruction of civilian infrastructure . In the North Gaza governorate , the Israeli military has been carrying out a ground offensive since 6 October 2024 , with fighting reported between Israeli forces and Palestinian armed groups . Israeli forces have continued to impose a tightened siege on Beit Lahiya , Beit Hanoun and parts of Jabalya and humanitarian assistance has been largely denied for about 60 days ( see data below ) , leaving between 65,000 and 75,000 people without access to food , water , electricity or reliable health care , as mass casualty incidents continue . <p> Between the afternoons of 26 November and 3 December , according to the Ministry of Health ( MoH ) in Gaza , 253 Palestinians were killed and 708 were injured . Between 7 October 2023 and 3 December 2024 , at least 44,502 Palestinians were killed and 105,454 were injured , according to MoH in Gaza . <p> Between the afternoons of 26 November and 3 December , two Israeli soldiers were killed in Gaza , according to the Israeli military . Between 7 October 2023 and 3 December 2024 , according to the Israeli military and official Israeli sources cited in the media , more than 1,580 Israelis and foreign nationals were killed , the majority on 7 October 2023 and its immediate aftermath . The figure includes 380 soldiers killed in Gaza or along the border in Israel since the beginning of the ground operation . In addition , 2,463 Israeli soldiers were reported injured since the beginning of the ground operation . <p> Representing the last lifeline for over two million Palestinians in Gaza , humanitarian workers continue to operate under challenging conditions that undermine their ability to meet humanitarian needs while facing risks to their personal safety . On 30 November , three World Central Kitchen ( WCK ) staff members were killed by an Israeli airstrike on their vehicle near an aid distribution site in Khan Younis , forcing the organization to pause its operations . On the same day , a Save the Children staff member , who is deaf , was killed in a separate Israeli airstrike in Khan Younis while returning home from a mosque . Save the Children condemned the attack in the strongest possible terms and demanded an investigation . On 27 November , UNRWA reported that two additional agency staff had been killed in Gaza , bringing the total fatality toll among UNRWA staff to 249 . Overall , since 7 October 2023 , at least 343 humanitarian workers have been killed in the Gaza Strip , including 253 UN staff . Calling for accountability and an immediate ceasefire to end the suffering , the Humanitarian Co-ordinator for the OPT , Muhannad Hadi , emphasized : " Humanitarians must be granted safe , sustained , and unimpeded access to all those in need . The continued killing of humanitarian workers is an unacceptable violation of international law and further intensifies the catastrophic humanitarian situation . " <p> On 28 November , over 75 Palestinians including children and women were reportedly killed in two strikes on two residential buildings in Beit Lahiya , in North Gaza , according to the Palestinian Civil Defense ( PCD ) that remains blocked by the Israeli authorities from operating in the governorate . PCD further stated that the houses near one of the targeted buildings are inhabited and their residents may have also been killed or injured but their destiny remains unknown . On 29 November , PCD spokesperson described conditions in North Gaza governorate as a " total catastrophe " whereby many people are trapped under rubble for days until they die of their injuries or due to the lack of food and water . According to PCD , more than 2,700 people are estimated to have been killed in North Gaza since 6 October , half of whom have not been retrieved , and more than 10,000 have been injured . <p> The following are some of the other deadly incidents reported between 26 November and 1 December : <p> On 27 November , at about 02:00 , at least nine Palestinians including six females were reportedly killed and 20 others were injured when two floors of a building of Al Tab'aeen School , sheltering IDPs , was hit in central Gaza city . <p> On 28 November , at about 08:40 , nine Palestinians including at least one woman were reportedly killed and several others injured when a group of Palestinians sitting outside a house was hit in the New Camp , north of An Nuseirat refugee camp in Deir al Balah . <p> On 29 November , at about 23:05 , at least ten Palestinians , including two women and two children , were reportedly killed when an apartment was hit in a building in Ash Sheikh Radwan neighbourhood in northern Gaza city . <p> On 29 November , the head of the Intensive Care Unit ( ICU ) at Kamal Adwan Hospital , in North Gaza , was reportedly killed in an Israeli airstrike in North Gaza . <p> On 30 November , at about 11:35 , at least eight Palestinians were reportedly killed when a five-story residential building was hit in Ash Shuja'iyeh neighbourhood , in eastern Gaza city . <p> On 30 November , at about 13:00 , at least 12 Palestinians were reportedly killed and others injured when an area near an aid distribution point was hit in Qizan an-Najjar Village in southern Khan Younis . <p> On 30 November , at about 16:25 , over 40 Palestinians were reportedly killed or injured , according to PCD , when a house sheltering tens of IDPs was hit in Tal Az-Za'atar in North Gaza . Many people are still trapped under the rubble due to very limited resources for retrieval and rescue . <p> On 1 December , at about 19:00 , 25 Palestinians , including women and children , were reportedly killed when a house was hit in Beit Lahiya Project in North Gaza . <p> Israeli Army attack -- 1 wounded : Tulkarem -- 19:10 , Israeli forces shot and wounded a man , Muhammad Nidal Abu Awad , in the area between the towns of Baqa al-Sharqiya and Zeita . <p> Home invasion -- 1 taken prisoner:Jerusalem -- 14:00 , Israeli Occupation forces invaded a home in the Jabal Mukaber neighbourhood , and took prisoner a resident:Nour Zahayka . <p> Home invasion and forced personal demolition:Jerusalem -- the Israeli Occupation forced a resident , Hala Al-Obeidi , to destroy her home in Beit Hanina -- or otherwise be forced to pay an extortionate sum to the Israeli Occupation demolition squads , who would be sent in to do it . <p> Forced personal removal and demolition of mobile home : Jerusalem -- the Israeli Army forced a residentto remove and destroy his mobile home in Beit Hanina -- or otherwise be forced to pay Israeli forces for the destruction . <p> Raid -- 2 taken prisoner in refugee camp : Bethlehem -- 02:00 , the Israelimilitaryraided the city as well as the al-Azza refugee camp , taking prisoner two people and interrogating others , ordering some to report to IsraeliMilitary Intelligence . <p> Leslie Bravery is a Londoner with vivid World War Two memories of the Nazi blitz on his home town . In 1947/1948 His father explained to him what was happening to the Palestinians thus : " Any ideology or political movement that creates refugees in the process of realising its ambitions must be inhuman and should be opposed and condemned as unacceptable . " What followed confirmed this assessment of the Zionist entity a hundredfold . Now a retired flamenco guitarist , with a lifelong interest in the tragedy of what happened to the Palestinian people , he tries to publicise their plight . Because the daily injustices they suffer barely get a mention in the mainstream news media , Leslie edits/compiles a daily newsletter , In Occupied Palestine , for the Palestine Human Rights Campaign . These days , to preserve his sanity , he enjoys taking part in a drama group whenever possible !
