<p> Attacks:There are no safe places for the militarily-dominated population in Gaza , who find themselves subjected to airstrikes and other missile attackson buildings , homes and many essentialfacilities , as well as constant gunfire and invasions by Israeli forces.The Israeli Navy continues to fire missiles , targeting facilities and buildings along the entire Gaza shoreline . <p> Victims:37more people have been killedwithin the past 48 hours , bringing the total number killed in Gaza since 7 Octoberto at least44,466 . Another 108have been wounded , bringing that total to 105,358 . The daily average number of men , women and children killed in Gaza is at least 105 ; that of those injured is now more than 250 . <h> Israeli preparation for settler Occupation <h> in Northern Gaza <h> Israeli settler company specialising in West Bank Outposts -- now at work in Northern Gaza <p> On November 28 , Israeli Housing and Construction Minister , Yitzhak Goldknopf , visited the border of Gaza , accompanied by Daniella Weiss , the godmother of the Zionist settler movement , with the explicit goal of ' scouting ' sites for resettlement . Goldknopf posted a photo gazing through binoculars at the area . " Today I toured the Gaza Strip settlements , " Goldknopf tweeted , framing the expedition as retaliation for the ICC arrest warrants against Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defence Minister Yoav Gallant . " Jewish settlement here is the answer to the terrible massacre and the answer to the International Criminal Court in The Hague who , instead of caring for the 101 hostages , chose to issue arrest warrants against the prime minister and the minister of defence . " <p> " The tour that took place today included a visit to several significant points of view , at the entrance to Tzir Netazir the Netzarim corridor -- to understand the decisive importance of the place and its immediate readiness for Jewish settlement , " a post by Weiss 's Nachala Settler Movement detailed . <p> Israel has conducted extensive demolitions in the Netzarim corridor that divides northern and central Gaza as the Israeli Army works day and night to ethnically cleanse the Palestinians of northern Gaza . " The minister expressed his great appreciation for the dedication and joy of all partners and promised support and help as much as he can for the Jewish settlement in Gaza ! " Read more . <p> Gazan chef Mahmoud Almadhoun , one of the founders of Gaza Soup Kitchen , was killed on Saturday by an Israeli drone strike during his routine visit to Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza , where he would feed displaced people seeking shelter . The chef was among the 300,000 Palestinians who remained in Beit Lahiya , north of the enclave , an area which the United Nations said was facing immediate famine . With their home , bakeries , cropland , chicken farms and fishing fleet destroyed by the Israeli military , Almadhoun and his family were forced to rely on animal feed to survive . <p> In February , Almadhoun decided to start Gaza Soup Kitchen using whatever they could get their hands on as virtually no aid was entering the area , with Anera and World Central Kitchen suspending operations after Israeli attacks targeted their convoys , Since then , the kitchen has been giving out hot meals and drinking water to Palestinians as Israel continues with its assaults on the besieged enclave . In an opinion piece for the Washington Post in April , Almadoudn wrote that he and his family would feed their neighbours for as long as they can . " We will keep serving our community , remembering that when all else has failed the Palestinians , the land did not , " Almadhoun wrote . The chef leaves behind seven children , with the youngest being only two weeks old and the eldest recovering from injuries caused by an Israeli quadcopter . <p> Palestinians are being intentionally massacred , starved , and stripped of everything needed to sustain human life . There are no words that can adequately convey the pain and depravity of this aggression . Those who can not be moved by the pictures of dismembered and charred corpses will not be moved by some words . What sort of world have we descended into ? <p> " On the eve of World Children 's Day last week , the United States vetoed for the fifth time a UN Security Council resolution calling for a ceasefire in Gaza . In the words of the Palestinian ambassador to the UN Majed Bamya " There is no justification for vetoing a resolution trying to stop atrocities . " There is NO justification . " <p> Paediatric intensive care doctor , Dr. Tanya Haj Hassan , Medical Practitioner at Medical Aid for Palestinians ( MAP ) Charity shares her personal account of working with injured and dying children and their families in Gaza . " You can not witness what 's going on in Gaza and not return enraged and determined to stop it " . Watch Dr. Tanya Haj Hassan 's impactful eye-witness report to the UN:https : //youtu.be/GevRchUAPZc <p> Israeli settler attack:Ramallah -- 16:55 , armed Israeli Occupation settlers opened fire on homes , near the western entrance to the village of Umm Safa , and assaulted two village council workers laying a water supply line there . They also smashed the windows of a villager'smotor vehicle . <p> Israeli Army population -- control : Hebron -- evening , the IsraeliArmy closed a side -- road leading to al-Fawar refugee camp , in addition to the closure ofthe refugee camp 's main entrance , already in place for some months . <p> Leslie Bravery is a Londoner with vivid World War Two memories of the Nazi blitz on his home town . In 1947/1948 His father explained to him what was happening to the Palestinians thus : " Any ideology or political movement that creates refugees in the process of realising its ambitions must be inhuman and should be opposed and condemned as unacceptable . " What followed confirmed this assessment of the Zionist entity a hundredfold . Now a retired flamenco guitarist , with a lifelong interest in the tragedy of what happened to the Palestinian people , he tries to publicise their plight . Because the daily injustices they suffer barely get a mention in the mainstream news media , Leslie edits/compiles a daily newsletter , In Occupied Palestine , for the Palestine Human Rights Campaign . These days , to preserve his sanity , he enjoys taking part in a drama group whenever possible !
