<p> Attacks:There are no safe places for the militarily-dominated population in Gaza , who find themselves subjected to airstrikes and other missile attackson buildings , homes and many essentialfacilities , as well as constant gunfire and invasions by Israeli forces.The Israeli Navy continues to fire missiles , targeting facilities and buildings along the entire Gaza shoreline . <p> Victims:48more people have been killedwithin the past 48 hours , bringing the total number killed in Gaza since 7 Octoberto at least44,580 . Another 201have been wounded , bringing that total to 105,739 . The daily average number of men , women and children killed in Gaza is at least 105 ; that of those injured is now more than 249 . <h> OCHA : <h> Key Highlights <p> Israeli settlers vandalise more than 700 Palestinian-owned trees and saplings , mostly olive , in three locations in the West Bank within three days . <p> Three Palestinian Bedouin households , comprising 14 people , including eight children and two elderly , residing on the outskirts of Ni'lin village ( Ramallah ) were displaced , citing settler violence as the main cause . <p> Since 7 October 2023 , some 300 Palestinian households comprising 1,757 people , including 855 children , have been displaced in Palestinian Bedouin and other herding communities , primarily citing attacks by Israeli settlers and access restrictions . <p> In 2024 , the proportion of structures ordered by Israel to be demolished by their owners in East Jerusalem has sharply increased . <h> Latest Developments ( after 2 December ) <p> On 3 December , initial reports indicate that an Israeli air strike targeted a vehicle in Aqaba ( Tubas ) , killing two Palestinians and injuring another . Israeli forces raided the Turkish Hospital , where the three casualties were transported , sealed all its entrances and opened fire inside , including in the emergency room , causing widespread panic and damage . At least five medical staff , including doctors , were detained and interrogated for at least one hour as Israeli forces searched for the injured Palestinian , who had already been transferred to another hospital upon his arrival . Efforts by Palestinian District Coordination and Liason Office and ICRC were made to secure the release of the detained medical personnel . <p> On 3 December , initial reports suggest that Israeli settlement guards shot and killed a 15-year-old Palestinian boy near his home in Silwan ( Jerusalem ) . According to Israeli media , the boy was throwing stones at passing vehicles . According to local sources , Israeli settlements ' guards passed through the Ein al Louzeh neighbourhood and fired toward Palestinian houses , injuring the boy . Shortly after , Israeli forces arrived in the area and arrested the injured boy . Later on , the boy was pronounced dead , and his body was withheld . <p> On 4 December , initial reports indicate that Israeli settlers injured a Palestinian man and members of the Israeli forces during a raid on Huwara and Beit Furik ( Nablus ) . During these attacks , settlers set fire to a number of homes and vehicles in these communities . <h> Humanitarian Developments ( 26 November-2 December ) <p> During the reporting period , Israeli forces killed five Palestinians and injured 27 others , including seven children , across the West Bank , including East Jerusalem . Eight Israelis , including four soldiers , were injured as a result of an attack perpetrated by an armed Palestinian in the West Bank . For more information on casualties and further breakdowns of data , please see the monthly West Bank snapshot . All the incidents resulting in Palestinian fatalities and other key incidents by Israeli forces are as follows : <p> On 29 November , Israeli forces shot and killed a Palestinian man who perpetrated a shooting attack that injured four Israeli settlers and four Israeli soldiers at a bus stop near Ariel settlement . According to Israeli media , the Palestinian man ( from Einabus village , Nablus ) stopped his vehicle on the side of the road near the bus stop and opened fire at an Israeli bus . In response , Israeli forces shot him and withheld his body . <p> On 30 November , Israeli forces shot and injured a Palestinian boy and physically assaulted , and injured another one in the village of ' Asira al Qibliya , southwest of Nablus . According to the Head of the Village Council , Israeli forces raided the village , and Palestinians threw stones at the military vehicles . Israeli forces then fired tear gas canisters , sound bombs , and live ammunition at the stone-throwers . A 15-year-old boy sustained a gunshot wound to the leg and a 16-year-old boy was physically assaulted by the forces . Both injured boys were transported to the hospital by medical teams in the area . <p> On 1 December , Israeli forces killed four Palestinians during an operation that involved airstrikes and exchanges of fire between armed Palestinians and Israeli forces in Sir village ( Jenin ) . The operation lasted about seven hours , during which Israeli forces struck armed Palestinians near a cave on the outskirts of the village . The Palestinian District Coordination Office and Ministry of Health reported that Israeli forces have withheld the four Palestinian bodies . Medical teams reported that Israeli forces prevented them from reaching the targeted area . It remains uncertain whether the fatalities resulted from an Israeli drone strike or occurred during an exchange of fire . <p> During the reporting period , OCHA documented 45 incidents involving settlers and affecting Palestinians , including 21 attacks that resulted in casualties , property damage or both . In total , two Palestinians were injured by Israeli settlers and six others were injured by Israeli forces during these attacks . Five Israeli settlers were injured in two separate Palestinian-perpetrated attacks ; four by live ammunition and one by stone throwing . About four incidents affecting Palestinians took place within the context of the olive harvest season , which resulted in the vandalism of about 700 trees and saplings , mostly olive . <p> The following are some of the key settler incidents that took place during the reporting period , which entailed intimidation , harassment , physical injury , property damage or a combination thereof , and include cases where Israeli forces were present : <p> Israeli settlers vandalised more than 700 Palestinian-owned trees and saplings , mostly olive , in three locations on 27 and 29 November in the Palestinian villages of Yasuf ( Salfit ) , Turmus'ayya ( Ramallah ) and Zif ( Hebron ) . The vandalism included the uprooting and cutting of trees and herding of their flocks in Palestinian-owned land which damaged crops . <p> On 1 December , a group of armed and masked settlers physically assaulted and injured two Palestinians in the village of Umm Safa ( Ramallah ) . According to local sources , the settlers raided the village and attacked Palestinian workers with metal sticks and a rifle . In addition , they vandalised one car and a bulldozer , stole their keys , and damaged some work equipment . Israeli forces arrived after the attack and fired live ammunition , tear gas and sound grenades at Palestinians who had gathered in the village after the attack . <p> On 1 December , masked and armed Israeli settlers believed to be from Yitzhar settlement raided Madama village , south of Nablus city . Villagers gathered to try to repel the settlers , after which Israeli forces intervened by firing live ammunition , tear gas canisters , and sound grenades at the Palestinians . According to medical sources , six Palestinians , including two children , were treated on-site for gas inhalation . <p> On 30 November , armed Israeli settlers believed to be from the Magzazi Farm settlement outpost , attacked Palestinian Bedouin families residing on the eastern outskirts of Area C in Ni'lin village ( Ramallah ) . According to video footage , armed settlers raided the community , intimidated the families , and threatened further attacks if they do not leave the area . Later that day , the settlers returned with dogs , which attacked and injured one of the community 's cows . On 2 December , three Palestinian Bedouin households comprising 14 people , including eight children and two elderly persons , residing on the outskirts of the village began relocating to a different location . According to the families , they have been forced to leave due to recurrent threats and attacks by Israeli settlers . The settlement outpost expanded near the community in May 2024 and since then settler violence has intensified in the area . Since 7 October 2023 , some 300 Palestinian households comprising 1,757 people , including 855 children , have been displaced in Bedouin and other herding communities , primarily citing attacks by Israeli settlers and access restrictions . <p> Since the start of the olive harvest season in October , Palestinian farmers have faced a sharp increase in settler-related violence , with their livelihoods and safety severely jeopardised . Between October and November , OCHA documented about 260 settler-related incidents directly related to the season across 89 West Bank communities , the majority of which resulted in casualties , property damage or both . This is at least a three-fold increase compared to each of the preceding three years . These incidents resulted in 57 Palestinians injured by settlers , 11 injured by Israeli forces , over 3,100 trees and saplings , mostly olive , burned , sawed-off , or vandalised , and significant theft of crops and harvesting tools . Nearly 60 per cent of these incidents occurred in the northern West Bank , with Nablus governorate alone accounting for over a quarter . The central West Bank , mainly Ramallah governorate , witnessed around a fifth of the incidents , while 18 per cent took place in Bethlehem and Hebron governorates in the south . This geographic distribution aligns with previous years ' trends ; however , the volume of incidents has significantly increased . <p> The Israeli authorities demolished , forced people to demolish , or seized 27 Palestinian-owned structures across the West Bank , including East Jerusalem . This resulted in the displacement of 11 people , including seven children , and otherwise affected the livelihoods , or access to services , of over 200 others . All but four of targeted structures were demolished due to a lack of Israeli-issue building permits , which are nearly impossible for Palestinians to obtain . Twenty of the targeted structures were in Area C of the West Bank , five were in East Jerusalem , and two were in Area B of the West Bank . <p> On 27 November , Israeli forces raided Idhna village ( Hebron ) in Area B of the West Bank and demolished a two-storey house and a water cistern , on punitive grounds . The house belonged to the Palestinian man who committed a shooting attack near Tarqumiya ( Hebron ) killing three Israeli police officers on 1 September 2024 ; he was killed on the same day in Hebron city in an exchange of fire with Israeli forces . Since the beginning of 2024 , 33 structures have been demolished on punitive grounds , compared with 37 structures in all of 2023 and 14 in 2022 . Punitive demolitions are a form of collective punishment and are illegal under international law . <p> From 1 January to 30 November 2024 , 64 per cent of structures demolished in East Jerusalem ( 121 out of 189 structures ) for lacking Israeli-issued building permits were destroyed by their owners following the issuance of demolition orders by the Israeli authorities . These demolitions accounted for around 60 per cent of people displaced in East Jerusalem within this context until end of November 2024 ( 289 out of 481 people ) . The rate of demolitions by owners of structures served with demolition orders has increased and stood at about 53 per cent in each of 2022 and 2023 . More than half of homes and other structures demolished by their owners ( 63 out of 121 ) during this period took place in Jabal Mukabbir ( 23 ) , Al Isawiya ( 22 ) , and Silwan ( 18 ) . Jabal Al Mukabbir alone accounts for 28 per cent of people displaced after being forced to demolish their own homes for lacking building permits . These demolitions are supported by Israeli legislation , which limits the authority of Israeli courts to intervene , exerting additional pressure on families to demolish their properties themselves . In one such incident documented by OCHA in August 2024 in Silwan , the affected family had been paying over 100,000 NIS ( $27,700 ) in fines since 2014 for adding a new section to their home , built before the year 2000 without a permit . In August 2024 , they received a final demolition order , after which Jerusalem Municipality officials reportedly stormed their house regularly , pressuring the family to demolish the property within 21 days . This incident displaced two households , comprising nine people , including four children . <p> In February 2024 , Israeli authorities issued military orders to requisition approximately 30 dunums of Palestinian-owned land from the towns of Sinjil ( with an estimated population of 6,500 , PCBS 2024 population projections ) and Turmus'ayya ( with an estimated population of 2,800 , PCBS 2024 population projections ) , both north of Ramallah along Road 60 . According to local sources , the Israeli Civil Administration informed the towns ' residents months earlier that the seized land would be used to construct a fence to protect Israeli settlers passing along Road 60 from stone-throwing . Reportedly , the planned fence wall , approximately 1,500 metres long and four metres high , would close off lands overlooking Road 60 -- which is the main road connecting the northern , central , and southern West Bank -- from both the Sinjil and Turmus'ayya sides , severely restricting access to agricultural land and homes . Additionally , according to the Sinjil Municipality , 13 houses lie in the path of the fence wall , and 8,000 dunums of agricultural land near settlements in northeastern Sinjil are at risk of being isolated . In August 2024 , Israeli authorities issued an additional order to requisition 15 more dunums of land for the fence construction . By late September , Israeli forces had begun levelling privately-owned Palestinian land in Sinjil , demolishing one uninhabited residential house , uprooting over 200 trees ( including 135 olive trees ) , destroying retaining walls , and bulldozing fields cultivated with vegetables . These actions affected approximately 162 people , including 94 children . The Sinjil Municipality petitioned the Israeli Civil Administration against the fence construction plans , but their objections were dismissed . Field observations by the municipality suggest that bulldozing activities have extended beyond the areas specified in the original plans . Furthermore , on 22 November 2024 , Israeli settlers believed to be from nearby settlements attacked the requisitioned areas , cutting down and stealing two ancient olive trees before fleeing the scene . <p> Home invasions and population -- control : Bethlehem -- 01:15 -- 03:25 , the Israeli Army raided Beit Sahour and searched a number of homes , ordering one resident to report for interrogation at Israeli Military Intelligence . <p> Israeli Army assault -- beating and murder:Nablus -- 11:30 , Israeli Occupation troops invaded land , belonging to Atef Abdul Malik Diriya ( aged 66 ) , near the entrance to the town of Aqraba , beating him to death and stealing his motor vehicle . <p> Israeli Army destruction -- economic sabotage:Nablus -- 08:00 , Israeli forces destroyed a marble and stone factory , at the entrance to the village of Majdal Bani Fadil . <p> Israeli Army destruction -- economic sabotage:Nablus -- morning , the Israeli Army demolished two businesses , in the town of Huwara . <p> Israeli Army population -- control:Bethlehem -- 22:00 , Israeli soldiers took prisoner a man , Shahada Muhammad Shahada Al-Taamari , when he reported , as ordered , for interrogation at IsraeliMilitary Intelligence . <p> Israeli Army population -- control andagricultural sabotage : Hebron -- Occupation forces prevented farmers from ploughing their land and seized agricultural equipment from them , and then forced them off the land in the Shaab al-Batm area , east of Yatta.
