<h> The Demon In The Mirror . Trump Exposes Who We Are . <p> They " will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America . " Donald J Trump about the people of Gaza and their defenders . <p> " Western justifications for their barbarism is well-established -- after all , genocide is a Western liberal value . " Professor Joseph Massad . <p> New Zealand , Australia and the rest " are aiding a regime that is starving people , they are aiding a regime that is preventing children from having anaesthetics in an operating theatre . " Professor Mohammad Marandi . <p> What is the response from our leaders to this genocidal menace to Palestine by Trump ? What does it mean for us as people of the West ? What would it say about us if he made good on the threat and we did nothing ? Below are some harsh assessments from the frontlines about us that we should pay careful attention to . <p> First , weigh Trump 's words in your mind . Israeli leaders were thrilled when Trump pledged that there would be " hell to pay " unless the 100 hostages held in the Gaza Strip were released ahead of his January 20 inauguration . There was no mention of the thousands of Palestinian political prisoners and hostages , including children , held in captivity by Israel . <p> Writing on Truth Social Trump said the Israeli hostages had to be freed by the time he was sworn in or " Those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America . " <p> Advertisement - scroll to continue reading <p> Harder than the US genocide of native Americans ? Harder than the unspeakable horrors of American slavery ? Hit harder than the victims of the atomic bombing of Nagasaki and Hiroshima ? Harder than the three million civilians killed by the US terror bombing of North Korea ? Harder than the years of napalm , B52 bombers , mass rapes and other large-scale US war crimes that stole millions of lives in Vietnam , Cambodia and Laos ? Harder than the US death squads in Central America , Afghanistan and Iraq ? Yes , it is a long and storied history . And now Republican Trump threatens something worse than the genocide that Democrat America and Israel are already inflicting on the Palestinian people . Who else will be targeted is unclear . <p> When Trump tweeted those threats , not a single political leader in a Western country uttered a syllable of censure . <p> Ali Abunimah of electronic intifada asked a very pertinent question when interviewing Columbia University professor Joseph Massad this week , " Were you surprised by the scale of the atrocities Israel was willing to commit or by the seemingly limitless Western support ? " <p> " I was surprised by the scale of the genocide but not by the Western support it has received , " Massad replied . <p> Then Ali Abunimah said something really interesting : " If I think about my own reaction , I was not surprised by what Israel was capable of but I must have naively thought there was a limit to what the West would tolerate . It turns out there is no limit to what they will tolerate . " <p> The words should strike our eardrums like thunder claps . They are , I believe , both shocking and undeniable . Trump will simply force us to face the demon in the mirror . <p> Professor Massad : " Western justifications for their barbarism is well-established - after all , genocide is a Western liberal value . I believe Israel is sincere when it says it abides by Western liberal values : one of which is genocide , one of which is settler colonialism , one of which is racism and contempt for its racial inferiors . " <p> Another voice of judgement on the conduct of our Western governments , our Western culture , is professor Mohammad Seyed Marandi of Tehran University : <p> Marandi says the issuing of arrest warrants for Netanyahu and Gallant was a huge moment , especially for anyone who took the time to read them . According to the International Criminal Court they bear criminal responsibility for " the war crime of starvation as a method of warfare ; and the crimes against humanity of murder , persecution , and other inhumane acts " . <p> " This is the sort of barbarism that Canada and New Zealand are supporting , " Marandi says . " They are aiding a regime that is starving people , they are aiding a regime that is preventing children from having anaesthetics in an operating theatre . That is the reality of New Zealand . That is the reality of Australia . That is the reality of Canada , Norway and Sweden . It 's why ' Western values ' , ' Western civilization ' all become meaningless in the eyes of the international community . " <p> Many Western governments supply weapons and bombs to support the genocide . Others like New Zealand and Australia send troops to attack Yemen to relieve the Houthi blockade of Israel , share intelligence , including targeting data , welcome Israeli diplomats but refuse to recognize Palestine , provide political cover at the UN and elsewhere , refuse to boycott , divest or inflict sanctions on Israel , train with their army and deny the truth of what is happening . <p> On 22 November New Zealand designated Hezbollah as a terrorist entity ; this after the terror bombing of Lebanon by Israel that has killed over 3000 civilians , maimed tens of thousands and destroyed the homes of hundreds of thousands . Prime Minister Christopher Luxon is confused as to who should be labelled terrorists . <p> The repudiation of the ICC warrants for Netanyahu and Yoav Gallant by Germany , France , the US and other Western governments was really just putting yet another bullet into the rotten carcass of Western credibility ; the rest of the world knows international law was designed to go after Muslims , Africans and Slavs , not the white rulers of the West . <p> The Pope said this month Israel 's attacks on Gaza and Lebanon have been immoral and disproportionate and that its military has gone beyond the rules of war . Amnesty International has just released a 300-page report stating that its research has found sufficient basis to conclude that Israel has committed and is continuing to commit genocide against Palestinians in the occupied Gaza Strip . The UN 's report " Genocide as colonial erasure " documents the vastness of the inhumanity being meted out to the Palestinian people by our friends and allies . <p> When governments fail to clear the lowest bars of moral conduct , history demands that populations take action -- that citizens do n't look away but step up and do everything it takes to force fundamental change , respect for human rights and international law . This is a time for activism not indifference or " tuning out " . Professor Marandi lays down the gauntlet to citizens of the West , saying what in our hearts we know about our own governments : <p> " They will allow the extermination of the people of Gaza . And then if the Israelis go after the West Bank , they will allow for that to happen as well . Under no circumstances do I see the West blocking extermination , " Marandi says . How will you personally respond ? <p> I will give the last word to Aaron Bushnell , the young US serviceman who self-immolated in front of the Israeli Embassy in Washington in February to protest at the US and Israel 's genocidal actions in Gaza . His last words on this Earth , as the fire consumed him , were : " Free Palestine ! " <p> Earlier that day , Aaron posted this on X as he set up the livestream : <p> " Many of us like to ask ourselves , " What would I do if I was alive during slavery ? Or the Jim Crow South ? Or Apartheid ? What would I do if my country was committing genocide ? " The answer is , you 're doing it . Right now . " <p> EUGENE DOYLE <p> Eugene Doyle is a writer based in Wellington . He has written extensively on the Middle East , as well as peace and security issues in the Asia Pacific region . He hosts the public policy platform solidarity.co.nz . <h> Are you licensed for Scoop ? <p> Scoop is free for personal use , but you 'll need a licence for work use . This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall . Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month , and start using Scoop like a Pro .
