<p> Anti-government fighters on the road to Maaret al-Numan in Idlib province on November 30 . Photo : Getty Images <p> Expert opinion from University of Otago - Otakou Whakaihu Waka <p> Opinion : While the world fixated on the faltering Lebanese ceasefire and Gaza , something extraordinary happened in the wider Levant region that threatens to disrupt the trajectory of events in the Middle East . <p> By quickly capturing a major city within days last week and surrounding another , rebel forces have disrupted the power of president Bashar al-Assad 's ruling regime , backed by Russia and Iran . <p> The rebels ' success threatens to expose regional contradictions among rulers in the Middle East , who claim to support Palestinian self-determination and are now faced with Syrians demanding the same outcome . <h> read more <p> It also presents a risk to Israeli calculations if rebels manage to topple the Syrian Baathist regime , who despite lots of resistance rhetoric , have n't fired a shot in anger across the occupied Golan Heights since the 1973 Yom Kippur War . <p> On Wednesday November 27 , Syrian opposition rebels , led by the Islamist faction Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) and the Turkish-backed Syrian National Army ( formerly known as Jaysh al-Har -- Free Syrian Army ) , launched an attack against pro-government forces from inside rebel enclaves around Idlib in northwest Syria . <p> In preceding weeks , the Syrian regime led by Assad had been escalating bombardments on the Idlib enclave and encroaching on the territorial lines set out in the 2017 Astana Agreement between Russia , Turkey and Iran . <p> Extraordinarily , by Sunday morning the flag of the Syrian Revolution ( the flag raised at Syrian independence 1946 ) hung from the walls of the iconic Aleppo citadel . <p> The citadel , which I was fortunate to stand awestruck in front of in 2009 , has in various forms symbolised political and cultural authority at the crossroads of the Levant , Mesopotamia and Asia Minor since thethird millennium BC . <p> Aleppo , Syria 's second largest city and commercial capital , which the regime along with Russia and Iran had reconquered through siege , bombardment and starvation in 2016 , was liberated from regime hands . <p> Furthermore , opposition forces controlled vast swathes of northern Syria as far south as the outskirts of the strategic central city of Hama . <p> Thousands of displaced Syrians from Aleppo and Rif Aleppo ( the northern countryside ) , have started to return to their homes and reunite with family . Some of whom were released from the regime 's gulags where tens of thousands of political prisoners -- considered irredeemable by the Baathist state -- had been left to rot for years since the Syrian revolution in 2011 . <p> Where did all this come from ? <p> For many in the West and even the youth in parts of the Middle East , the dramatic events of the Arab Spring , which shook the Arab world 's authoritarian status quo to its core , are long forgotten , but not for Syrians . <p> In early 2011 I was on my second research trip to the country when Syrians from across the spectrum of its religiously and ethnically diverse society took to the streets . <p> Ordinary people pushed to the wall by drought , corrupt economic mismanagement , and a suffocating security state were inspired by events in Tunisia , Egypt and Libya , and revolted against the 40-year totalitarian rule of the Assad family dynasty . <p> At that time the courageous and determinedly peaceful protests were defined by one chant , wahid , wahid , wahid , al Shab al Suri wahid ( one , one , one , the Syrian people are one ) . <p> Unfortunately , a combination of regime fear mongering , sectarian massacres , western indifference and inaction , and the interventions of Hezbollah and other Iranian proxies ( in 2012 ) , and Russia ( in 2015 ) , served to tear Syrian society apart , which over the course of the next decade seemed to have completely deflated and defeated the Syrian revolution , including across the region as the willpower to push for participation and resist tyranny seemed to vanish . <p> This perception has changed almost overnight . <p> We should not for a second celebrate -- the future is grim indeed and Assad , Putin and Iran have already started to exact revenge via mass bombardments of Idlib and its civilian infrastructure on a Gaza-like scale . <p> And the nature and intentions of the rebel army remains uncertain . However , for Syrians it gives a tiny glimmer of hope that the much-hated regime , which killed , tortured , raped and imprisoned over a million of their co-citizens and drove over 10 million from their homes and out of the country -- might finally end . <p> Even the Syrians picking their children up from school in far away Dunedin seemed to have a proud and hopeful bounce in their step . <p> At the regional level , the rapid collapse of Assad 's power in Syria would be a monumental problem for Arab and Iranian autocrats and the Israelis alike , with the possible exception of maybe President Erdogan in T ? rkiye . <p> It promises to shine a glaring spotlight on the contradictions of the autocratic rulers from Tehran to Cairo to the Gulf , who claim to support Palestinian rights to self-determination and justice but will barely be able to conceal their alarm that Syrians are again demanding theirs ( a dangerous idea that could catch on in their own personal fiefdoms and kingdoms ) . <p> Bashar al- Assad , desperately called the rulers of Gulf states -- who only last year laundered and returned him the Arab League ' autocrat ' club ' -- pleading for help . Some ( perhaps less credible Saudi sources ) even suggested that Assad requested help from Israel to save his rule , making a mockery of Syria 's pro-Palestinian resistance axis credentials . <p> For Israel , it presents a dilemma . While the rebels threaten to overrun Iran 's resistance axis infrastructure in Syria , the possibility of chemical and missile arsenals falling into the hands of rebels of unknown qualities and intentions is troubling and might draw the rebels and Israel into conflict . Although , the rebels , laser focused on toppling Assad , will be keen to avoid this . <p> Basically , the permutations are myriad . <p> So why should we care ? <p> The struggle for a new Middle East likely depends on what happens in Syria . <p> While many analysts rightly point to the Israeli decimation of the power of key Syrian allies Hezbollah and Iran as a critical change , this does not fully explain events , which are driven by internal Syrian evolutions of opposition efficacy and regime decay . <p> In an inversion of past years , opposition forces in recent days have acted as a unified , organised and disciplined military rather than ideologically disparate factions and disorganized militias . <p> In contrast , the largely conscripted regime forces filled with corrupt officers and lacking staunch support on the ground from Iran and Russia , have acted as a fragmented rabble without direction or solidarity of purpose ( ' asabiyya ' as the great 14th century Arab sociologist and historian Ibn Khaldun would put it in describing the key variable in the rise and fall of states and dynasties ) . <p> The strong presence of religious extremists and ethno-nationalists pose a significant dampener to renewed hopes in Syria . <p> The jihadist-originated HTS and other Sunni Islamist components of the rebel army are poised to clash with Kurdish forces to the east and unorthodox Alawites on the coast in a reckoning the latter has long feared . <p> A key question is whether the melting pot of millions of displaced Syrians crammed inside Idlib has knocked off the hard edges of messianics and ethno-nationalists into a more inclusive Syrian nationalism -- this is what HTS claims . <p> Over the years there have been many protests inside Idlib against the hardline Islamist rule , led by committed revolutionaries like the famous activist Raed Fares -- many after him -- who continued to defend the pluralist vision of Syria despite multiple ( ultimately successful ) attempts to silence him . <p> A promising sign in recent days were the Christian church congregations in Aleppo that met last Sunday , completely undisturbed , while rebel fighters patrolled outside . <p> Finally , ordinary Syrians , tired and disillusioned by 14 years of carnage -- are naturally fearful of all warring parties . <p> There is hope , however , in the changed language of the some of the previously intractable communal actors . <p> For example , prominent Alawite spokesperson , Issa Ibrahim , posted a message to Syrians on Facebook : " Syrians , we beseech you to be together in all your rich diversity , against dictatorship and terrorism . " <p> Finally , Syrian author Robin Yassin-Kassab made the important point that while democracy is certainly not knocking on the door anytime soon in Syria , or anywhere in the Middle East , " the future can not start until Assad is gone " . <p> Moreover , for those who continue to think that it is only Israel blocking a Free Palestine , Yassin-Kassab rightly observes that escape from dictatorship for Arabs is " actually a precondition for Palestinian liberation " . <p> Dr Leon Goldsmith is co-founder of Middle East and Islamic Studies Aotearoa ( MEISA ) and a senior lecturer in Middle East and Comparative Politics in the Politics Programme at the University of Otago . More by Dr Leon Goldsmith
