<p> Attacks:There are no safe places for the militarily-dominated population in Gaza , who find themselves subjected to airstrikes and other missile attackson buildings , homes and many essentialfacilities , as well as constant gunfire and invasions by Israeli forces.The Israeli Navy continues to fire missiles , targeting facilities and buildings along the entire Gaza shoreline . <p> Victims:52more people have been killedwithin the past 48 hours , bringing the total number killed in Gaza since 7 Octoberto at least44,664 . Another 142have been wounded , bringing that total to 105,976 . The daily average number of men , women and children killed in Gaza is at least 104 ; that of those injured is now more than 248 . <p> Help us fuel the wave of resistance to the genocide in Gaza <p> Refuser Solidarity Network ( RSN ) <p> Mattan here . I am the executive director of Refuser Solidarity Network ( RSN ) and in 2017 I spent 110 days in prison because I refused to serve the Israeli occupation . Today I 'd like to tell you about how , over the past year , RSN was the only organisation that has helped launch a reservists ' refusal wave which can put an end to Israel 's war . We will continue to support their growing numbers and initiatives , but we need your help : join us and support the increasing needs of the growing number of refusers , who are ready to put a stop to this war . <p> Reservists are the backbone of the Israeli military : The Israeli army relies on reservists on all fronts , from ensuring its day-to-day functioning to flying the very warplanes that bomb Gaza . Israel 's war of extermination can not carry on the war without its active reserves , which is why refusal is such a powerful act of resistance . We understood that to end the genocide in Gaza , we needed to create the conditions that would normalise wartime refusal and make it easier for reservists to take this brave step . With this in mind , we helped establish Ani Siravti ( " I refused " in Hebrew ) , an initiative of older reserve refusers publishing video statements on social media that reaffirmed their past refusal and explained why they would do so again if called up for the assault on Gaza . <p> This effort exceeded our expectations.In May of this year , with the help of Ani Siravti , a group of over 40 reserve soldiers signed a public letter declaring their refusal of military service shortly before the invasion of Rafah , a large city in the Gaza Strip . The letter shook Israeli discourse as the first act of organised refusal to the Gaza War , but not the last . In August , with RSN 's active support , a core group of the letter 's signatories began organising a second letter , garnering 130 signatories threatening to refuse service unless a hostages-for-ceasefire deal that would end the war is implemented immediately . <p> When the letter was published in October , it caused a sensation in Israel , so much so that it even became an item on the war cabinet 's agenda . PM Netanyahu directly attacked the refusers and demanded a response from the army , which began calling the signatories to pressure them , unsuccessfully , to back down . To date , 178 soldiers have signed the letter , and the movement is only gaining momentum . Every day , more and more reservists are finding the courage to stand up , and it 's shaking the foundations of Israel 's war machine . We know that just as the refuser movement was one of the primary reasons for the withdrawal from Gaza in 2005 , they can put a stop to the atrocities once again . <p> With your support , RSN helped spark this movement , and then incubated it by providing media consultation , legal aid and capacity-building . This helped the initial refuser wave grow into a real political force , knocking on the doors of the country 's war cabinet meetings . Our work allows spontaneous courage to transform into real organising and coherent movement building , and is what eventually brought this refuser wave to the Israeli war cabinet 's agenda . <p> Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's threats directed against the refusers betray a recognition that refusal works . It 's our only viable path to end this war . <p> Israeli Army armed robbery:Ramallah -- 18:00 , Israelitroops , setting up a checkpoint near the Ein Siniya village roundabout , robbed a man , Adam Yasser Hattab , ofcash worth the equivalent of around$US3,800and took him prisoner . <p> Occupation settler pastoral sabotage:Tubas -- 08:15 , Israeli settlers prevented a shepherd , Muhammad Salah Al-Jamil , from grazing his sheep near his home in the al-Farisiya area of the North Jordan Valley . <p> Occupation settler arson:Nablus -- 10:55 , Israeli settlers set fire to oneperson 's vehicle , on the outskirts of the village of al-Lubban . <p> Occupation settler agricultural sabotage:Salfit -- 14:25 , Israeli Occupation settlers invaded Yasuf village land and cut off branches from a number of olive trees . <p> Occupation settler land-grab:Jericho -- 14:55 , Israeli settlers seized around ten hectares of al-Jiftlik village land and plantedit with grapevines . <p> Occupation settler terrorism : Hebron -- morning , Occupation settlers threatened the home of a resident , Abu Nasser Al-Azzazmeh , in the Birin area , south of Bani Naim , and threatened to force out the occupants , in favour of seizure for the settlement . <p> Leslie Bravery is a Londoner with vivid World War Two memories of the Nazi blitz on his home town . In 1947/1948 His father explained to him what was happening to the Palestinians thus : " Any ideology or political movement that creates refugees in the process of realising its ambitions must be inhuman and should be opposed and condemned as unacceptable . " What followed confirmed this assessment of the Zionist entity a hundredfold . Now a retired flamenco guitarist , with a lifelong interest in the tragedy of what happened to the Palestinian people , he tries to publicise their plight . Because the daily injustices they suffer barely get a mention in the mainstream news media , Leslie edits/compiles a daily newsletter , In Occupied Palestine , for the Palestine Human Rights Campaign . These days , to preserve his sanity , he enjoys taking part in a drama group whenever possible !
