<p> A terrorist attack in New Zealand remains a realistic possibility following an annual review of the National Terrorism Threat Level by the New Zealand Security Intelligence Service ( NZSIS ) . <p> The National Terrorism Threat Level remains at LOW , indicating that a terrorist attack is a realistic possibility . This follows an annual assessment by the Combined Threat Assessment Group ( CTAG ) , an inter-agency group hosted and led by the NZSIS . The assessment is based on a range of classified intelligence and publicly available information . <p> " It 's important to understand that keeping the National Terrorism Threat Level at LOW indicates an attack is a realistic possibility amid what is a deteriorating global security environment , " Director-General of Security Andrew Hampton said . <p> " Evolving global and domestic trends will continue to drive extremist sentiment in New Zealand over the next 12 months . There is an increasingly diverse range of violent extremist narratives being expressed globally and New Zealanders can quickly connect to these narratives through online networks . <p> " Conflicts and acts of extreme violence overseas have an impact on New Zealand 's threat environment , sometimes compounding with domestic issues . The vast majority of individuals engaged in these issues will express their views peacefully and lawfully . Yet a small number of individuals may see violence as a legitimate way to further their cause . The pathway to radicalisation and potential violence is becoming shorter , and these individuals may act unpredictably . This means the threat environment could change with little warning . <p> Advertisement - scroll to continue reading <p> " Online networks enable people to connect without knowing each other 's real identities and motivations . The NZSIS is particularly concerned about the impact of the online environment on young people , who are being exposed to and influenced by violent extremism in ways we have n't seen before . " <p> Last week the NZSIS joined the Five Eyes security intelligence and law enforcement agencies in publishing a joint paper to highlight a shared concern about the radicalisation of young people . The paper includes two New Zealand case studies where threats were identified and intervention has occurred . <p> " The volume and accessibility of extremist views online is worrying . The NZSIS is highly aware of the impact this is having on some communities , such as those affected by conflicts in the Middle East . The sense of concern in these communities is real and understandable . <p> " The known individuals of concern in New Zealand mostly adhere to well recognised categories of violent extremist aligned ideologies . However , there is now a growing threat from individuals embracing a fluid mix of ideologies , conspiracy theories and highly personalised grievances , who are fixated on violence , and whose intentions are difficult to assess . <p> " The most plausible form of violent extremist attack in New Zealand continues to be someone who acts alone and is either self-radicalised or inspired by like-minded individuals , using readily available weapons . Attacks are likely to occur with little to no warning , undertaken by individuals who may have taken steps to avoid detection . <p> " The most fundamental mission of the NZSIS is the safety of New Zealand and New Zealanders . We have continued to build our ability to respond to this evolving threat environment , including through stronger collaboration with domestic and international partners , increased online capabilities and broad community engagement . <p> " National security is not something the NZSIS can exclusively own or solve . Everyone has a part to play by reporting issues of concern when they see them . This can be done directly to the NZSIS , or to our partners at New Zealand Police , who we work closely with to detect and disrupt threats , " Mr Hampton said . <p> The NZSIS has a range of public resources to help with this , including the Know the Signs guide to identifying the signs of violent extremism . This details behaviours and activities by individuals which could be concerning , and how to report them . <p> The 2024 NZSIS Security Threat Environment report also has more information about the national security threats facing New Zealand , including case studies and a range of practical advice . <p> Notes : <p> i . The National Terrorism Threat Level has been at LOW since November 2022 . It was raised from LOW to HIGH immediately following the terrorist attacks on Christchurch masjidian in March 2019 , and revised to MEDIUM a month after the attacks . <p> ii . The National Terrorism Threat Level is continually assessed by the Combined Threat Assessment Group ( CTAG ) and can change at any time in response to global and domestic events and intelligence reporting . It is also subject to an annual review . <p> iii . The National Terrorism Threat Level informs relevant government agencies about the likelihood of a terrorist attack in New Zealand to ensure that they are appropriately placed to mitigate any risks . <p> iv . Assessment of the National Terrorism Threat Level is in consultation with agencies including New Zealand Security Intelligence Service , Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet , New Zealand Police , Department of Corrections , New Zealand Defence Force , and Ministry of Business , Innovation and Employment . <p> Further information about CTAG can be found here : https : **39;958;TOOLONG ... Questions and Answers -- New Zealand Terrorism Threat Level <p> How often is the National Terrorism Threat Level assessed ? <p> The National Terrorism Threat Level is formally reviewed annually , but can change at any time based on the current intelligence picture . It considers the domestic terrorism context and relevant international threat factors , taking into account both classified intelligence and open source information . <p> Who decides the National Terrorism Threat Level ? <p> The New Zealand National Terrorism Threat Level is set by the Director-General of Security on advice from the Combined Threat Assessment Group ( CTAG ) , an inter-agency group hosted and led by the NZSIS . Partner agencies in the national security sector are consulted on the assessment . <p> Why have ongoing global conflicts like the Middle East not changed the National Terrorism Threat Level ? <p> Enduring conflicts across the Middle East continue to adversely affect the global threat environment , however this has not , to date , had a significant effect on New Zealand 's overall domestic violent extremism threat environment . In New Zealand , concerns aligned to these conflicts have typically been voiced through lawful protest , and we have not seen escalation to physical acts of violent extremism . <p> The full effect of the widening Israel/Gaza conflict on the domestic threat environment is unlikely to be understood for some time . Over the next 12 months , we expect to see a continuation of anti-Semitic and Islamophobic narratives in New Zealand . <p> What does LOW mean in terms of the probability of an attack occurring ? <p> LOW means a terrorist attack is assessed as a realistic possibility . " Realistic possibility " has a likelihood of between 25-50% . <p> Why is our threat level not the same as countries like Australia and the United Kingdom ? <p> Some countries have changed their domestic threat levels . While this is done in the context of the evolving global threat picture , these decisions reflect specific issues and events within these countries . <p> Each country also uses its own language to describe its threat level . Next year CTAG intends to review the language and definitions it uses to identify opportunities for closer alignment with key partners . <h> Are you licensed for Scoop ? <p> Scoop is free for personal use , but you 'll need a licence for work use . This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall . Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month , and start using Scoop like a Pro .
