<h> Al Aqsa Provocation And The Media Game ' Israel Says ' <p> A few days ago I watched a recording from Al Jazeera of Earthrise Systems Change . The news banner at the bottom of the screen told this story : <p> " One person killed and at least five others injured in a car-ramming attack in central Tel Aviv . Medics say all victims in Tel Aviv attack are foreign tourists . Suspected attacker has been shot dead by Israeli Police . Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has mobilized Police and army reserves after Tel Aviv attack . Israeli police say attacker tried to run over people on a busy promenade in central Tel Aviv . Two Israeli women were earlier killed in a shooting in the Jordan Valley area of the occupied West Bank . Israel carried out strikes on Gaza and Lebanese port city of Tyre early Friday morning . There is increased tension after Israeli forces stormed Al Aqsa Mosque in Occupied East Jerusalem twice on Wednesday " . And , in the preceding news bulletin : " Israel 's Iron Dome intercepts rockets from Gaza " and " airstrikes on Tyre , Lebanon in response to the barrage of rockets from Hamas " . <p> The recording was from live TV at 8:30am on Saturday8 April 2023 ; that 's six months before the Hamas attack which triggered the present ongoing trashing of Gaza by the Israel Defence Force . ( Nearly 45,000 Gazans are known to have been killed by the IDF , many other unverified deaths , and many other excess deaths due to illness , injury and inadequate nutrition . The big unknown is the number of Gazans presently alive in Gaza . I would be surprised if it 's as many as two million . ) <p> Advertisement - scroll to continue reading <p> After 7 October 2024 , the Israelis authorities instructed the western mainstream media to treat the Hamas attack as a blue-sky event , something perpetrated ' out of the blue ' by people -- people who were " terrorists " because they were terrorists ; aka " human animals " . The " liberal " western press obliged . When Benjamin Netanyahu said ' jump ' , the media moguls effectively said ' how high ? ' Since then , like Groundhog Day , media copywriters have been playing the game ' Israel says ' . <p> Israel demands that western audiences take into account 4,000 years of history to understand its position as the putative ' tangata whenua ' of the Southern Levant . But it will not countenance the people of Gaza or Eastern Jerusalem having even a year of their history being allowed as evidence of understanding ' Why ? ' . <p> The key point from the second paragraph quotation is that various relatively small tragedies ( too small to make it as more than a byline in the western press ) -- perpetrated by both civilians and military on civilians and military -- arose from a cynical police/military operation on one of Islam 's most holy sites , the Al Aqsa Mosque on East Jerusalem 's Temple Mount , aka Haram al-Sharif . <p> These provocative attacks ' wind-up ' Muslims -- especially Palestinian Muslims -- understandably ; indeed , that would appear to be the intent of ' mosque-storming ' in and around Israel . And Hamas -- a resistance ( and service-providing ) organisation in Apartheid Israel/Palestine -- which may be compared to the ANC in Apartheid South Africa -- feel obligated to ' fire rockets ' to provide a degree of optics saying to Israel and the World " we are still here " . <p> Recently I learned about the 1929 attack on Al Aqsa . In p.262 of Shlomo Sand 's 2008 book The Invention of the Jewish People -- a reasoned argument that Judaism is historically important as a religious faith , but not as an ethnicity -- Sand notes that the founders of the modern state of Israel that Palestinians were of the same ethnicity as the ' Jewish race ' , but that they pulled back sharply from that position after " the Arab uprising of 1929 " . " After the 1929 ' pogroms ' these Muslim peasants became complete strangers with astonishing speed . " <p> What were the these ' pogroms ' , a word mostly associated with anti-Jewish events in the western part of the pre-1917 Russian Empire ? In the Wikipedia entry 1929 Palestine riots , in British mandatory Palestine , the British " Commission found that the incident that contributed most to the outbreak was the Jewish demonstration ... at the Wailing Wall on 15 August 1929 " . The context was that " From the late nineteenth century onwards pictures and postcards often depicted a rebuilt Jewish Temple on the Temple Mount , sometimes next to Al-Aqsa Mosque or the Dome of the Rock and sometimes in their place my italics " and " Arab fears of Jewish immigrants ' not only as a menace to their livelihood but a possible overlord of the future ' . " <p> ( I will say no more about that regrettable set of tragedies , but will note my article from last Friday -- Israel , Syria , and the Map of the ' Millennium ' , Evening Report , 6 December 2024 -- which gives ongoing context to the fears of Zionists and Christian Zionists razing the Al Aqsa and Dome of the Rock mosques . I will also note that , in light of the weekend 's events in Syria , that the eschatological optics relating to an imminent Armageddon arising from Russian and Iranian presence in Syria have now diminished . ) <p> There have been many provocations relating to the sacred Al Aqsa Mosque . I 'll mention just one more , the Second Intifada of 2000 to 2005 began when the 1982 " Butcher of Beirut " ( Ariel Sharon ) " made a provocative visit to the Temple Mount " . <p> Provocations matter , and the provocateurs generally are fully aware of what they do . They start wars , little or big . <p> The Temple Mount site is sacred to Christians , Muslims and Jews . When in the eleventh century Muslim ' Infidels ' occupied the Jerusalem holy site , it precipitated the classic Crusades . Western Christians , highly offended by this occupation , raised an army -- the First Crusade -- which in 1099 ended with the murder by Crusaders of every Muslim occupier of that sacred ' Holy Land ' city . 88 years later , Muslims under Saladin in 1187 recaptured Jerusalem ; Saladin spared the city 's Christian inhabitants , in part to avoid harm being done to " the Dome of the Rock and the al-Aqsa Mosque " . " Upon the capture of Jerusalem , Saladin summoned the Jews and permitted them to resettle in the city " . <p> Judaism , Christianity and Islam are faiths with the same mythistorical ( a neologism utilised by Shlomo Sand ) point of origin . Much cousinly blood has been spilt in terms that appear ridiculous in hindsight , just as much blood has been spilt in internecine conflict between different groups of Christians and between different groups of Muslims . Jews at least seem to have hit-on each other less , although the Zionist present trope of " self-hating Jews " is a major source of provocative rhetoric in the current conflict . <p> It is the ethnicisation of ' peoples ' ( ethnobiological and pseudo-ethnobiological collectives -- ' nations ' in the nineteenth-century sense of that word -- as Shlomo Sand defined ' peoples ' ) that leads to racial supremacism and ethnic cleansing . That causes so much grief today , much of it under the guise of religious conflict . So it was , also , in the first half of the twentieth century . <p> So much ethno-violence results from wilful provocation . And it happens when our institutions -- including the mainstream television networks -- look the other way . Playing ' Israel Says ' is not ethical journalism . <p> I just rewatched DDN 's The Truth About October 7 Exposed ( Youtube ) , which draws on the work of Al Jazeera 's Investigative Unit . Eleven minutes in , it notes " the response to our film on October 7 has been interesting . The response has not been to criticize and pick apart and say that we 've got it wrong . They did n't do that at all . What they do is simply ignore you . " <p> The worst things happen when we , and especially our trusted institutions , choose to look the other way . When institutions succumb to narratives of the ' Israel says ' variety , they are professionally corrupt . We need contests of ideas , contested narratives , not a ' lay-down mis ? re ' . <p> ------------- <p> Keith Rankin ( keith at rankin dot nz ) , trained as an economic historian , is a retired lecturer in Economics and Statistics . He lives in Auckland , New Zealand . <p> Keith Rankin taught economics at Unitec in Mt Albert since 1999 . An economic historian by training , his research has included an analysis of labour supply in the Great Depression of the 1930s , and has included estimates of New Zealand 's GNP going back to the 1850s . <p> Keith believes that many of the economic issues that beguile us can not be understood by relying on the orthodox interpretations of our social science disciplines . Keith favours a critical approach that emphasises new perspectives rather than simply opposing those practices and policies that we do n't like . <p> Keith retired in 2020 and lives with his family in Glen Eden , Auckland .
