<p> Attacks:There are no safe places for the militarily-dominated population in Gaza , who find themselves subjected to airstrikes and other missile attackson buildings , homes and many essentialfacilities , as well as constant gunfire and invasions by Israeli forces.The Israeli Navy continues to fire missiles , targeting facilities and buildings along the entire Gaza shoreline . <p> Victims:19more people have been killedwithin the past 48 hours , bringing the total number killed in Gaza since 7 Octoberto at least44,805 . Another 69have been wounded , bringing that total to 106,257 . The daily average number of men , women and children killed in Gaza is at least 104 ; that of those injured is now more than 247 . <p> Last week , we argued that in the face of a rising far-Right , what we have is solidarity with each other . And true solidarity among the exploited and oppressed begins with the willingness to understand and bear witness to others ' pain , recognizing it as inseparably linked to our own . <p> It is with that commitment , and tears in our eyes , that we watched as thousands of Syrians were freed from the Assad regime 's dungeons , reuniting with their loved ones after years or decades behind bars . These scenes are a powerful reminder of what we 're fighting for . <p> We do n't know what the future in Syria holds , but we do know that Syrians alone should have the power to determine that future , and that they deserve our solidarity . <p> For now , the images of prisons being emptied , of hundreds of thousands of refugees returning home , and of families reuniting gives us hope that one day soon , Palestinians will be free too . Because even as the political terrain shifts rapidly , we 're continuing to cry out with everything we have to end the U.S.-backed , Israeli genocide in Gaza . <h> Liberation of the ' human slaughterhouse ' <p> After opposition forces took control of Damascus , they began the work of liberating Sednaya Military Prison , one of Syria 's most notorious prisons : a massive labyrinth of decrepit cells and underground torture chambers dubbed the " human slaughterhouse . " <p> Syrians have endured unspeakable horrors . Over 100,000 people were estimated to be forcibly disappeared by the Assad regime . Now , local rights groups say most of them are likely dead . In the last days , a mass grave and rooms full of shoes and other belongings have been uncovered at Sednaya . <p> Countless families are learning that their missing loved ones were killed in Assad 's torture camps . Their pain is an agonising reminder of why we fight : Because all people deserve to live in safety and dignity , free of the horrors of incarceration , occupation , and genocide . <p> But there is hope , too . We have watched scenes of former prisoners stepping into the fresh air after decades in the darkness , equal parts joy and confusion on their faces ; families embracing after long years of separation ; hundreds of refugees flocking to the Lebanese and Turkish borders , finally able to return home . <h> Hundreds of Israeli airstrikes across Syria <p> While Syrians around the world let themselves feel hope -- cautiously optimistic that the years of brutal war and forced displacement could come to an end -- Israel was already invading Syria . <p> The Israeli military seized a Syrian-controlled buffer zone in the Golan Heights , Syrian territory that has been illegally occupied by Israel since 1967 . During the first Trump administration , the U.S. government recognized Israel 's sovereignty over the Golan , a move that Biden has refused to reverse . <p> Israeli forces also launched hundreds of airstrikes , hitting weapons depots , radar and air defence systems , airports , and aircraft squadrons in the capital , Damascus , and across the country , in addition to destroying the Syrian navy fleet . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has hailed the fall of the Assad regime -- but not because he cares about what happens to Syrians . In reality , he and the rest of Israel 's far-Right government are determined to exploit this moment of instability to carry out their expansionist aims across the region . The Israeli government 's aims are clear : To ensure a future Syria too weak to resist its settler-colonial plans for the entire region . <p> After all , the Israeli military has been bombing Syria for over a decade , including over the past months as it invaded neighbouring Lebanon , killing thousands and reducing entire villages to rubble . <h> The future is uncertain , but the answer is always solidarity <p> In last week 's Wire , we argued that Trump won by telling people that their pain is the only real pain , and that the pain of others does n't matter . <p> Our task on the left is to make it clear that all of our pain , like our struggles for freedom , are interconnected -- and that the forces that oppress us are also trying to divide us . They scapegoat the most vulnerable among us because they know we 're at our most powerful when we act together . <p> The left can and must tell a more compelling story than the Right , one rooted in solidarity : the idea that none of us is free until all of us are free , and that we should stand with the oppressed everywhere . <p> We do n't know what the future in Syria holds , but we do know that Syrians alone should have the power to determine that future , and that they deserve our solidarity . For now , the images of prisons being emptied , of hundreds of thousands of refugees returning home , and of families reuniting gives us hope that one day soon , Palestinians will be free too . <p> Since midnight on 07 October 2023 , Occupation forces have been imposing a complete closure around the whole of the West Bank . Permanent military checkpoints impose severe travel restrictions within the Occupied West Bank . <p> Israeli Army attack -- 2 wounded:Jenin -- 11:10 -- 17:10 , Israeli Occupation forces , firing live ammunition , stormed Silat al-Dahr as well as the village of al-Fanduqumiya , wounding two residents:Amer Ghassan Masoud and Muhammad Najeh Hantouli . <p> Israeli Army water crime and agricultural sabotage:Salfit -- 08:50 , Israeli Occupation forces demolished two agricultural facilities as well as two wells on Kafr al-Dik farmland . <p> Israeli Army land-grab:Salfit -- 22:00 , Israeli forces seized ? ? land trapped behind the Occupation Annexation Wall , belonging to al-Zawiya and the village of Rafat , in order to enlarge a quarry . <p> Israeli Army land-grab:Bethlehem -- 17:00 , the Israeli Army seized a strip of Jourat al-Sham'a village land , in order to extend a bypass road from the Gush Etzion settlement to the Mazmoria checkpoint , east of Bethlehem . <p> Israeli Army land-grab:Bethlehem -- theIsraeli Occupation issued an order , for the seizure of 9.4 hectares of land trapped behind the Annexation Wall near the tunnel area west of Beit Jallah , so as to establish a bus station for settlers . <p> Israeli Army population -- control:Bethlehem -- the IsraeliArmyblocked the entrance to the village of al-Manshiya . <p> Occupation settler road rage -- child hospitalised : Nablus -- 13:45 , an Israeli settler , ran over and hospitalised a child , Ibrahim Muhammad Ibrahim Samara , on the main road passing by the village of al-Lubban al-Sharqiya . <p> Raid:Qalqiliya -- 13:05 , Israeli troops raided and patrolled the village of Hajja . <p> Raid -- injury -- 3 taken prisoner:Qalqiliya -- 04:50 -- 07:20 , the Israeli military raided the city , injuring one resident and taking prisoner three people . <p> Raid:Qalqiliya -- 07:30 , Israeli soldiers raided and patrolled the village of Kafr Laqif . <p> Raid -- school pupils and staff terrorised:Nablus -- morning , the Awarta Secondary School for Boys'Administration were forced to evacuate its students when Occupation forces raided the village of Awarta and ordered the school 's Principal and teaching staff to close the premises and leave . <p> Leslie Bravery is a Londoner with vivid World War Two memories of the Nazi blitz on his home town . In 1947/1948 His father explained to him what was happening to the Palestinians thus : " Any ideology or political movement that creates refugees in the process of realising its ambitions must be inhuman and should be opposed and condemned as unacceptable . " What followed confirmed this assessment of the Zionist entity a hundredfold . Now a retired flamenco guitarist , with a lifelong interest in the tragedy of what happened to the Palestinian people , he tries to publicise their plight . Because the daily injustices they suffer barely get a mention in the mainstream news media , Leslie edits/compiles a daily newsletter , In Occupied Palestine , for the Palestine Human Rights Campaign . These days , to preserve his sanity , he enjoys taking part in a drama group whenever possible ! <h> 1 COMMENT <p> Yes ! 100% ! Israel is the hero of all the countries in this world . We are fighting evil and succeeding in record time . We are a people with no other country , this land is our first and our last . Israel chai because Am Israel chai .
