<p> ... ACT are demanding an electronic Purity test that bypasses the rights of the individual for an online Big Brother who will punish the individual for private choice vices ? <p> - Sponsor Promotion - <p> Who the fuck are they ? The heel clicking nanny state who punishes like a self flagellating mother superior on meth ? <p> That 's who ACT are becoming and appealing to is it ? <p> The infantizisation of adults requiring the mass surveillance state staring over them like the lidless eye of a Puritan God scorching the individual in a sacrificial ceremony to civil rights all for the bloodlust of the lynch mob ! <p> WHERE IS YOUR SMALL GOVERNMENT FREEDOM NOW ACT ? ? ? <p> The Reserve Bank Governor purposely crashes the economy , causes tens of thousands in job losses , expects unemployment to hit 5.2 , beneficiary numbers explode and the Government is now forced to get imaginative in how to find ways to cut people off welfare ! <p> Remember the Economy is sinking so fast because the Government is ideologically imposing policy rather than well thought ideas . <p> Forcing beneficiaries onto cards will create the same problems Australia saw when they imposed this , people wo n't be able to use their benefit to pay rent and will get kicked out before the bureaucracy catches up . <p> So a welfare policy that increases the risk of homelessness to fund tax cuts they 'll never see for landlord loopholes . <p> The State is unjust and rigged for the rich . <p> Increasingly having independent opinion in a mainstream media environment which mostly echo one another has become more important than ever , so if you value having an independent voice -- please donate here . <h> 6 COMMENTS <p> David is spending on stupid things like giving hair dressers a license to sell wine so the client can then hop in her car and drive and kill some homeless person sleeping on the foot path because after a 2 hour hair appointment and 2 bottles of wine she is 3 x over the limit . He has employed 6 people for at least 3 months to investigate this . Fuck me it should only take one person a couple of days not 72 weeks of work time . That money would pay for retraining one or two of the people that have been thrown on the scrap heap by his shit government <p> ACT and NZ FIRST are now the government as Luxon has now capitulated and handed the baton on to Winston because he cant get a couple of boats with his legendary negotiating skill . Luxon is a legend in his own lunch time . His so called skills are lust an illusion no wonder those planes he bought are no longer able to fly . Fuck if he bought the ferries they would have no bungs to stop them sinking and they would not even complete the delivery voyage . So now he has opted to become the junior partner in the coalition and to leave the two rich prick party and the river of filth party to tear NZ apart . Fuck I might move to gaza it might be safer there . <p> ' Why is it always scrutiny of beneficiaries with ACT and not white collar crime ? ' Simple : Beneficiaries do not vote for ACT . People who hate beneficiaries vote for ACT . ACT is actually doing that which elected members of parliament are supposed to do -- following the wishes of its electorate -- commendable really . A government of bastards , by bastards and for bastards . <p> SIR LUXON OF NAZARETH : would anyone care to try a drop of my prized vintage bin 2024 liquor , that I brewed myself from the left over juices of beneficiaries and renters , that we ground down into mush , and squeezed under the pressure of administrative over reach , to achieve a perfect flavorful blend , that I distilled into a smooth belly warming drop that I 've christened " bottomfeeder supreme " , that 's just perfect for those special occasions , when property moguls who are wealthy and sorted , can gather round and drink a toast to me , for fulfilling the quid pro quo pledge to my election year donors , by easing the brightline test and interest deductibility , while turning the screws on the poor , the renters , the workers , and appointing piranha to savagely rip into public services , for I do not enter the sheepfold by the door but climb in by another way !
