<p> Hayat Al-Turki . . . " I will show you the photo of my missing brother . It 's been 14 years . This is his photo . I do n't know what he looks like , if I find him . . . . prisoners getting out . They are like skeletons . " Image : Democracy Now ! screenshot APR <p> Democracy Now ! <p> AMY GOODMAN : We begin today 's show in Syria , where tens of thousands of people gathered at the Great Mosque of Damascus for the first Friday prayers since longtime authoritarian President Bashar al-Assad was toppled by opposition fighters . <p> DAMASCUS RESIDENT : translated Hopefully this Friday is the Friday of the greatest joy , a Friday of victory for our Muslim brothers . This is a blessed Friday . <p> AMY GOODMAN : Syria 's new caretaker Prime Minister Mohammed al-Bashir was among those at the mosque . He 'll act as prime minister until March . <p> This comes as the World Food Programme is appealing to donors to help it scale up relief operations for the approximately 2.8 million displaced and food-insecure Syrians across the country . That includes more than 1.1 million people who were forcibly displaced by fighting since late November . <p> Israel 's Defence Minister has told his troops to prepare to spend the winter holding the demilitarized zone that separates Syria from the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights . Earlier today , Prime Minister Netanyahu toured the summit of Mount Haramun in the UN-designated buffer zone . Netanyahu said this week the Golan Heights would " forever be an inseparable part of the State of Israel " . <p> On Thursday , UN Secretary-General Ant ? nio Guterres called for an urgent deescalation of airstrikes on Syria by Israeli forces , and their withdrawal from the UN buffer zone . <p> In Ankara , US Secretary of State Antony Blinken met with Turkey 's Foreign Minister and the President , Recep Tayyip Erdogan . Blinken said the US and Turkey would work to prevent a resurgence of the Islamic State group in Syria . Meanwhile , Erdogan told Blinken that Turkey reserves the right to strike the US-backed Syrian Democratic Forces , led by the Kurdish People 's Protection Units ( YPG ) , which Turkey considers " terrorist " . <p> For more , we go to Damascus for the first time since the fall of longtime authoritarian President Bashar al-Assad , where we 're joined by the Associated Press investigative reporter Sarah El Deeb , who is based in the Middle East , a region she has covered for two decades . <p> Sarah , welcome to Democracy Now ! You are overlooking -- <p> SARAH EL DEEB : Thank you . <p> AMY GOODMAN : -- the square where tens of thousands of Syrians have gathered for the first Friday prayers since the fall of Assad . Describe the scene for us . <p> SARAH EL DEEB : There is a lot of firsts here . It 's the first time they gather on Friday after Bashar al-Assad fled the country . It 's the first time everyone seems to be very happy . I think that 's the dominant sentiment , especially people who are in the square . There is ecstasy , tens of thousands of people . They are still chanting , " Down with Bashar al-Assad . " <p> But what 's new is that it 's also visible that the sentiment is they 've been , so far , happy with the new rulers , not outpour -- there is no criticism , out -- loud criticism of the new rulers yet . So , I 'd say the dominant thing is that everyone is happy down there . <p> HAYAT AL-TURKI : translated I will show you the photo of my missing brother . It 's been 14 years . This is his photo . I do n't know what he looks like , if I find him . I do n't know what he looks like , because I am seeing the photos of prisoners getting out . They are like skeletons . <p> But this is his photo , if anyone has seen him , can know anything about him or can help us . He is one of thousands of prisoners who are missing . I am asking for everyone , not only my brother , uncle , cousin and relatives . " <p> AMY GOODMAN : Talk about this mad search by Syrians across the country . <p> SARAH EL DEEB : This is the other thing that 's been dominating our coverage and our reporting since we arrived here , the contrast between the relief , the sense of relief over the departure of Bashar al-Assad but then the sadness and the concern and the no answers for where the loved ones have gone . <p> Thousands -- also , tens of thousands of people have marched on Sednaya prison . It 's the counter to this scene , where people were looking for any sign of where their relatives have been . As you know really well , so many people have reported their relatives missing , tens of thousands , since the beginning of the revolt , but also before . <p> I mean , I think this is a part of the feature of this government , is that there has been a lot of security crackdown . People were scared to speak , but they were -- because there was a good reason for it . They were picked up at any expression of discontent or expression of opinion . <p> So , where we were in Sednaya two , three days ago , it feels like one big day , I have to say . When we were in Sednaya , people were also describing what -- anything , from the smallest expression of opinion , a violation of a traffic light . No answers . <p> And they still do n't know where their loved ones are . I mean , I think we know quite a lot from research before arriving here about the notorious prison system in Syria . There 's secret prisons . There are security branches where people were being held . I think this is the first time we have an opportunity to go look at those facilities . <p> What was surprising and shocking to the people , and also to a lot of us journalists , was that we could n't find any sign of these people . And the answers are -- we 're still looking for them . But what was clear is that only a handful -- I mean , not a handful -- hundreds of people were found . <p> Many of them were also found in morgues . There were apparent killings in the last hours before the regime departed . One of them was the prominent activist Mazen al-Hamada . We were at his funeral yesterday . He was found , and his family believes that -- he was found killed , and his family believes his body was fresh , that he was killed only a few days earlier . So , I think the killing continued up until the last hour . <p> AMY GOODMAN : I was wondering if you can tell us more about -- <p> SARAH EL DEEB : What was also -- what was also -- <p> AMY GOODMAN : -- more about Mazen . I mean , I wanted to play a clip of Mazen 's nephew , Yahya al-Hussein . <p> YAHYA AL-HUSSEIN : translated In 2020 , he was taken from the Netherlands to Germany through the Syrian Embassy there . And from there , they brought him to Syria with a fake passport . <p> He arrived at the airport at around 2:30 a.m. and called my aunt to tell her that he arrived at the airport , and asked for money . When they reached out to him the next day , they were told that air intelligence had arrested him . <p> AMY GOODMAN : That 's Mazen 's nephew , Yahya al-Hussein . Sarah , if you can explain ? This was an activist who left Syria after he had been imprisoned and tortured -- right ? -- more than a decade ago , but ultimately came back , apparently according to assurances that he would not be retaken . And now his body is found . <p> SARAH EL DEEB : I think it 's -- like you were saying , it 's very hard to explain . This is someone who was very outspoken and was working on documenting the torture and the killing in the secret prisons in Syria . So he was very well aware of his role and his position vis- ? -vis the government . Yet he felt -- it was hard to explain what Mazen 's decision was based on , but his family believes he was lured into Syria by some false promises of security and safety . <p> His heart was in Syria . He left Syria , but he never -- it never left him . He was working from wherever he was -- he was in the Netherlands , he was in the US -- I think , to expose these crimes . And I think this is -- these are the words of his family : He was a witness on the crimes of the Assad government , and he was a martyr of the Assad government . <p> One of the people that were at the funeral yesterday was telling us Mazen was a lesson . The Assad government was teaching all detainees a lesson through Mazen to keep them silent . I think it was just a testimony to how cruel this ruling regime , ruling system has been for the past 50 years . <p> People would go back to his father 's rule also . But I think with the revolution , with the protests in 2011 , all these crimes and all these detentions were just en masse . I think the estimates are anywhere between 150,000 and 80,000 detainees that no one can account for . That is on top of all the people that were killed in airstrikes and in opposition areas in crackdown on protest . <p> So , it was surprising that at the last minute -- it was surprising and yet not very surprising . When I asked the family , " Why did they do that ? " they would look at me and , like , " Why are you asking this question ? They do that . That 's what they did . " It was just difficult to understand how even at the last minute , and even for someone that they promised security , this was -- this would be the end , emaciated and tortured and killed , unfortunately . <p> AMY GOODMAN : Sarah , you spoke in Damascus to a US citizen , Travis Timmerman , who says he was imprisoned in Syria . This is a clip from an interview with Al Arabiya on Thursday in which he says he spent the last seven months in a prison cell in Damascus . <p> TRAVIS TIMMERMAN : My name is Travis . <p> REPORTER : Travis . <p> TRAVIS TIMMERMAN : Yes . <p> REPORTER : So , speaking in Arabic . Travis , Travis Timmerman . <p> TRAVIS TIMMERMAN : That 's right . <p> REPORTER : That 's right . <p> TRAVIS TIMMERMAN : But just Travis . Just call me Travis . <p> REPORTER : Call you Travis , OK . And where were you all this time ? <p> TRAVIS TIMMERMAN : I was imprisoned in Damascus for the last seven months . ... I was imprisoned in a cell by myself . And in the early morning of this Monday , or the Monday of this week , they took a hammer , and they broke my door down . ... Well , the armed men just wanted to get me out of my cell . And then , really , the man who I stuck with was a Syrian man named Ely . He was also a prisoner that was just freed . And he took me by the side , by the arm , really . And he and a young woman that lives in Damascus , us three , exited the prison together . <p> SARAH EL DEEB : I spent quite a bit of time with Travis last night . And I think his experience was very different from what I was just describing . He was taken , he was detained for crossing illegally into Syria . And I think his description of his experience was it was OK . He was not mistreated . <p> He was fed well , I mean , especially when I compare it to what I heard from the Syrian prisoners in the secret prisons or in detention facilities . He would receive rice , potatoes , tomatoes . None of this was available to the Syrian detainees . He would go to the bathroom three times a day , although this was uncomfortable for him , because , of course , it was not whenever he wanted . But it was not something that other Syrian detainees would experience . <p> His experience also was that he heard a lot of beating . I think that 's what he described it as : beating from nearby cells . They were mostly Syrian detainees . For him , that was an implicit threat of the use of violence against him , but he did not get any -- he was not beaten or tortured . <p> AMY GOODMAN : And , Sarah , if you could also -- <p> SARAH EL DEEB : He also said his release was a " blessing . " Yeah . <p> AMY GOODMAN : If you could also talk about Austin Tice , the American freelance journalist ? His family , his mother and father and brothers and sisters , seem to be repeatedly saying now that they believe he 's alive , held by the Syrian government , and they 're desperately looking for him or reaching out to people in Syria . What do you know ? <p> SARAH EL DEEB : What we know is that people thought Travis was Tice when they first saw him . They found him in a house in a village outside of Damascus . And I think that 's what triggered -- we did n't know that Travis was in a Syrian prison , so I think that 's what everyone was going to check . They thought that this was Tice . <p> I think the search , the US administration , the family , they are looking and determined to look for Tice . The family believes that he was in Syrian government prison . He entered Syria in 2012 . He is a journalist . But I think we have -- his family seems to think that there were -- he 's still in a Syrian government prison . <p> But I think , so far , we have not had any sign of Tice from all those released . But , mind you , the scenes of release from prisons were chaotic , from multiple prisons at the same time . And we 're still , day by day , finding out about new releases and people who were set free on that Sunday morning . <p> I want to turn to Gaza . Tell us about the Palestinians searching for their family members who went missing during raids and arrests by Israeli soldiers in the Gaza Strip . And talk about the lack of accountability for these appearances . You begin your piece with Reem Ajour 's quest to find her missing husband and daughter . <p> SARAH EL DEEB : I talked to Reem Ajour for a long time . I mean , I think , like you said , this was a pivot , but the themes have been common across the Middle East , sadly . Reem Ajour last saw her family in March of 2024 . Both her husband and her 5-year-old daughter were injured after an Israeli raid on their house during the chaotic scenes of the Israeli raids on the Shifa Hospital . <p> They lived in the neighborhood . So , it was chaotic . They Israeli military entered their home , and they were shooting in the air , or they were shooting -- they were shooting , and the family ended up wounded . <p> But what was striking was that the Israeli soldiers made the mother leave the kid wounded in her house and forced her to leave to the south . I think this is not only Reem Ajour 's case . I think this is something we 've seen quite a bit in Gaza . But the fact that this was a 5-year-old and the mom could n't take her with her was quite moving . <p> And I think what her case kind of symbolises is that during these raids and during these detentions at checkpoints , families are separated , and we do n't have any way of knowing how the Israeli military is actually documenting these detentions , these raids . <p> Where do they -- how do they account for people who they detain and then they release briefly ? The homes that they enter , can we find out what happened in these homes ? We have no idea of holding -- I think the Israeli court has also tried to get some information from the military , but so far very few cases have been resolved . <p> And we 're talking about not only 500 or 600 people ; we 're talking about tens of thousands who have been separated , their homes raided , during what is now 15 months of war in Gaza . <p> AMY GOODMAN : Sarah El Deeb , we want to thank you for being with us , Associated Press investigative reporter based in the Middle East for two decades , now reporting from Damascus . <p> Next up , today is the 75th day of a hunger strike by Laila Soueif . She 's the mother of prominent British Egyptian political prisoner Alaa Abd El-Fattah . She 's calling on British officials to pressure Egypt for the release of her son . We 'll speak to the Cairo University mathematics professor in London , where she 's been standing outside the Foreign Office . Back in 20 seconds .
