<p> Attacks:There are no safe places for the militarily-dominated population in Gaza , who find themselves subjected to airstrikes and other missile attackson buildings , homes and many essentialfacilities , as well as constant gunfire and invasions by Israeli forces.The Israeli Navy continues to fire missiles , targeting facilities and buildings along the entire Gaza shoreline . <p> Victims:55more people have been killedwithin the past 48 hours , bringing the total number killed in Gaza since 7 Octoberto at least44,930 . Another 170have been wounded , bringing that total to 106,624 . The daily average number of men , women and children killed in Gaza is at least 103 ; that of those injured is now more than 246 . <p> Study Finds 96% of Gaza Children Fear Imminent Death -- <p> And Half Want to Die <p> " The world 's failure to protect Gaza 's children is a moral failing on a monumental scale , " said one advocate . <p> Amid a relentless Israeli onslaught that has wrought monumental physical and psychological destruction in Gaza , a report published this week revealed that nearly all children in the embattled Palestinian enclave believe their death is imminent -- and nearly half of them want to die . <p> The Gaza-based Community Training Centre for Crisis Management , supported by War Child Alliance , surveyed more than 500 Palestinian children in Gaza last June and found that 96% of them fear imminent death , 92% are not accepting of reality , 79% suffer from nightmares , 77% avoid discussing traumatic events , 73% display signs of aggression , 49% wish to die because of the war , and many more " show signs of withdrawal and severe anxiety , alongside a pervasive sense of hopelessness . " <p> " This report lays bare that Gaza is one of the most horrifying places in the world to be a child , " War Child U.K. CEO Helen Pattinson said in a statement . " Alongside the levelling of hospitals , schools , and homes , a trail of psychological destruction has caused wounds unseen but no less destructive on children who hold no responsibility for this war . " <p> " The harm caused to Gaza 's children goes beyond statistics . Behind every number is a name , a life , and a future that is being extinguished before it can even begin , " Iain Overton , executive director of the U.K.-based group Action on Armed Violence , said in response to the new report . <p> " The world 's failure to protect Gaza 's children is a moral failing on a monumental scale , " he added . " We must act decisively and compassionately to ensure that these children 's voices are heard and their futures protected . " <p> In October , the UK-based charity , Oxfam International , said that Israel 's year -- long assault on Gaza has been the deadliest year of conflict for women and children anywhere in the world over the past two decades . A year ago , the United Nations Children 's Fund called Gaza " the world 's most dangerous place to be a child . " Earlier this year , UN Secretary-General Ant ? nio Guterres , for the first time , added Israel to his so-called " List of Shame " of countries that kill and injure children during wars and other armed conflicts . <p> " The international community must act now before the child mental health catastrophe we are witnessing embeds itself into multi-generational trauma , the consequences of which the region will be dealing with for decades to come , " Pattinson stressed . " A cease-fire must be the immediate first step to allow War Child and other agencies to effectively respond to the intense psychological damage children are experiencing . " <p> Addressing the complicity of allies like the United States , Germany and Britain , who provide weapons and diplomatic cover for Israel , progressive UK parliamentarian Jeremy Corbyn wrote on social media in response to the new report , " Every single supplier of arms to Israel has blood on its hands -- and the world will never forgive them . " <p> Israeli Army population -- control : Hebron -- 01:00 -- 07:40 , the Israeli military raided both the Hebron University and Polytechnic University campuses during a raid on the city , **26;776;TOOLONG flyers on buildings . <p> Occupation settler armed violence and population -- control:Nablus -- 14:05 -- 15:00 , an armed guard , from the Yitzhar Occupation settlement , set -- up a checkpoint on the road and held up vehicles travelling between the villages of Asira al-Qibliya and Urif . <p> Leslie Bravery is a Londoner with vivid World War Two memories of the Nazi blitz on his home town . In 1947/1948 His father explained to him what was happening to the Palestinians thus : " Any ideology or political movement that creates refugees in the process of realising its ambitions must be inhuman and should be opposed and condemned as unacceptable . " What followed confirmed this assessment of the Zionist entity a hundredfold . Now a retired flamenco guitarist , with a lifelong interest in the tragedy of what happened to the Palestinian people , he tries to publicise their plight . Because the daily injustices they suffer barely get a mention in the mainstream news media , Leslie edits/compiles a daily newsletter , In Occupied Palestine , for the Palestine Human Rights Campaign . These days , to preserve his sanity , he enjoys taking part in a drama group whenever possible !
