<p> On November 20 , New Zealand 's National Party-led government passed a law banning the wearing of gang insignia in public . The ban targets mainly Maori gangs to prevent them wearing jackets and clothing emblazoned with their identifying " patches . " <p> The law bans displaying gang insignia in all public places . Courts can issue non-consorting orders to prevent gang members communicating and associating , and police have increased arrest powers . Repeat offenders can be banned from even owning a " patch , " with police empowered to search and seize patches from private homes . <p> Greater weight will be given to gang membership in court sentencing , providing for " more severe punishments " for unrelated criminal convictions . Justice Minister Paul Goldsmith told Radio NZ that " being a gang member should always be an aggravating factor " in any sentencing process . <p> The legislation is part of the far-right government 's sweeping " law and order " agenda targeting the most alienated and vulnerable layers of society , including impoverished youth and welfare beneficiaries . Sooner rather than later , the crackdown will extend to the wider working class . The anti-democratic measures are being imposed amid a vast restructuring of social relations involving tax cuts for the wealthy , thousands of workers being thrust into unemployment and growing poverty and homelessness . <p> In a joint statement on the ban , Goldsmith and Police Minister Mark Mitchell -- an ex-private military contractor in Iraq -- boasted that the " free ride for gangs is over . " Goldsmith claimed that to " earn the right to wear a patch you have to have committed violent crime . There are a trail of tears and victims behind each one of those gang patches . " No evidence was provided for these lurid accusations based on guilt by association . <p> Advertisement - scroll to continue reading <p> The police wasted no time exercising their new powers . The first arrest was made just three minutes after the law came into effect , with 12 people charged on the first day . Later that week , a huge police presence , including a police helicopter , was mobilised in the small Bay of Plenty community of Matapihi for Mongrel Mob member 's Maori tangi , or funeral . Several arrests were made , prompting an outpouring of anger and shouts of " disrespect " from mourners . <p> Like bike gangs in other countries , including Australia , these outfits are frequently alleged to be involved in drug importing and distribution and other crimes . They are socially backward , with some flaunting Nazi symbols and exhibiting violence towards women . Inter-gang reprisals and shootings are not uncommon . New Zealand 's gangs are mainly , but not exclusively , focused on recruiting marginalised Maori youth , without jobs or stable families . <p> The outlawing of gang regalia is , of course , no solution to the complex social issues involved . A significant number of gang members have come out of extremely abusive state institutions . A royal commission of inquiry recently found that from 1950 to 2019 more than 250,000 people were abused or neglected while in foster care , schools , orphanages , psychiatric hospitals and other places . <p> A recent study undertaken by the police themselves , " Understanding Policing Delivery , " identified patterns of bias , unfair treatment , racism and excessive use of force by police against gang members . This has contributed to " longstanding community distrust of law enforcement across generations , " particularly among Maori . One gang member said : " Police do n't really represent rescue for me . They represent coming to break the family up . " <p> The New Zealand Herald noted in an editorial that 90 percent of New Zealanders , particularly in the major cities , only ever have " chance encounters " with gangs and therefore would n't need to be " sleeping safer " now that gangs are not wearing their insignia . <p> The legislation is in reality intended to set a precedent that can be readily applied more broadly to political organisations deemed to be threatening or " intimidatory . " Left-wing and oppositional groups will be first in line to be proscribed . The wearing of keffiyeh by protesters opposing the genocide in Gaza is already being cracked down on internationally and could well be illegalised and targeted . <p> There are attempts to create a climate of fear and suspicion towards the anti-genocide protests . The New Zealand Security Intelligence Service issued a statement on December 10 declaring that " a terrorist attack is a realistic possibility " and claiming that there were " anti-Semitic and Islamophobic narratives " linked to " the Israel/Gaza conflict , " without elaborating or providing any examples of the alleged antisemitism . <p> Another plank in the government 's escalation of state repression is the campaign against so-called " youth crime , " which played a major role in the 2023 election . As part of this , the National Party and its far-right coalition partners -- ACT and New Zealand First -- have created a Young Offender Military-Style Academy , commonly known as a boot camp , for 14-17 year-olds . <p> A pilot program -- with " military style activities " and a special curriculum -- is being run by the child welfare agency Oranga Tamariki . In the first three months , 10 recidivist offenders were placed in Palmerston North 's youth justice facility before transitioning to a closely supervised in-community phase for nine months . <p> The trial has already proved to be a debacle . One of the participants released into the community died last month in a car crash involving three vehicles , which injured 14 others . Two other 15-year olds subsequently absconded , one while attending the young man 's funeral , and went on the run from police . At least one other has allegedly reoffended . <p> A bill currently before parliament creates a " framework " for military-style boot camps being written into law . Children 's Commissioner Claire Achmad has defended the current trial but warned that if the bill passes it will " move us further away from a children 's rights approach to our youth justice system . " <p> Criminology professor Elizabeth Stanley was more scathing , writing for Newsroom that international research shows boot camps are " the worst criminal justice response we can take . " Boot camps are " criminogenic , " Stanley wrote . " They create more crime , rather than reduce it . The kids ' fall out ' tougher and quicker . " <p> The royal commission into abuse in care highlighted multiple heinous acts , including beatings and rape , against youth sent to a state-funded boot camp that operated on Great Barrier Island from 1988 to 2004 , under successive Labour and National Party governments . <p> The normalisation of military-style institutions is also bound up with the needs of the ruling class to funnel more working class youth into the armed forces , as New Zealand and Australia are increasingly integrated into US-led plans for imperialist war against China . <p> Other " law and order " measures being implemented include : <p> The reintroduction of " three strikes " laws that force judges to impose the maximum possible sentence when someone is convicted with a third " serious offence . " <p> Plans to restrict the right of an accused person to trial by jury , increasing the number of judge-only trials . <p> The prison system is being significantly expanded with the expectation of hundreds more people incarcerated . <p> This punitive agenda is directly connected to the intensifying social crisis . To slash public spending and attack the living standards of the working class , a massive assault on jobs is under way . Unemployment in the September quarter was 4.8 percent , up from 4.2 percent earlier in the year , with 148,000 officially unemployed . <p> With the economy tanking , the government has launched a sweeping new sanctions regime on welfare beneficiaries . These include : compulsory " work check-ins " ; penalties for those who fail to attend interviews ; establishing a community-based " work for the dole " system , and requiring Jobseeker Support recipients to reapply every six months . <p> The repressive laws are not aimed primarily at gangs . Their purpose is to suppress the inevitable class struggles that will erupt against poverty , unemployment , the assault on working conditions and public services , and imperialist war . The working class must prepare , above all by building the necessary socialist and internationalist party that will lead the political struggle against the capitalist system , which is the source of war and social inequality . <h> Are you licensed for Scoop ? <p> Scoop is free for personal use , but you 'll need a licence for work use . This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall . Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month , and start using Scoop like a Pro .
