<p> Attacks:There are no safe places for the militarily-dominated population in Gaza , who find themselves subjected to airstrikes and other missile attackson buildings , homes and many essentialfacilities , as well as constant gunfire and invasions by Israeli forces.The Israeli Navy continues to fire missiles , targeting facilities and buildings along the entire Gaza shoreline . <p> Victims:52more people have been killedwithin the past 48 hours , bringing the total number killed in Gaza since 7 Octoberto at least45,028 . Another 203have been wounded , bringing that total to 106,962 . The daily average number of men , women and children killed in Gaza is at least 103 ; that of those injured is now more than 245 . <p> Ghazal , a 15-year-old girl with cerebral palsy , has lost her home , memories and essential medical equipment in the ongoing conflict in Gaza . Her story is a window into the larger tragedy of how war has devastated children , especially those with disabilities . From the day the war began , Ghazal 's life was irreversibly changed . " They destroyed what was inside us , " she said , describing how the bombing not only demolished her house but also took away her wheelchair and prosthetic devices -- items essential for her survival and dignity . The Human Rights Watch report , They Destroyed What Was Inside Us , documents the staggering toll on Gaza 's children . Recent figures paint an alarming picture : <p> Over 17,000 children have been killed in Gaza since October 2023 , according to Gaza 's Ministry of Health . <p> Humanitarian groups report that at least ten children lose a limb every day , often due to explosive weapons . <p> More than 100,000 children have been displaced , with many separated from their families or caregivers . <p> For children with disabilities , the situation is even more dire . Mobility aids like prosthetics and wheelchairs have been destroyed en masse . Hospitals , already under siege , lack the resources to replace them or provide urgent care . Under international law , including the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities , children and people with disabilities are entitled to protection during armed conflicts . Yet the realities in Gaza demonstrate how these principles are being openly ignored . <p> The Committee to Protect Journalists ( CPJ ) has denounced Israel 's killing of four Palestinian journalists in Gaza over the past week as the Israeli military intensifies its bombardment of the besieged territory . The United States-based watchdog said in a statement on Monday that the international community has failed to hold Israel accountable for its actions amid the growing death toll of journalists and civilians in Gaza . <p> With no foreign reporters allowed to work in Gaza , Palestinian journalists have been the only witnesses describing the atrocities to the outside world . And that , rights advocates argue , has put them in the crosshairs of an Israeli military operating without regard to legal and ethical norms . According to the Gaza Government Media Office , Israeli forces have killed 196 Palestinian media workers in Gaza since the start of the war last year . CPJ , which has not included some media workers in its tally , puts the death toll at 133 . <p> The President of the Norwegian Football Federation , Lise Klaveness , said on Saturday that the organisation she leads " stands with the Norwegian government 's call for an immediate halt to the disproportionate attacks on innocent civilians in Gaza , " a day after Norway and Israel were drawn in the same group in the 2026 World Cup qualifiers . " It 's complicated for us , beyond the sporting aspect , " Klaveness added . " We can not remain indifferent to Israel 's disproportionate attacks on the civilian population in Gaza . Israel is still participating in UEFA competitions , and we must contend with that , " Klaveness said , adding that they " are closely monitoring the situation with FIFA , UEFA , and the authorities in Norway . " <p> Survivors of Israeli incursion in northern Gaza describe drone attacks on schools , lack of food and medicine and dodging bullets . Jacqueline Almasri was feeding her two young children in a **25;867;TOOLONG in Beit Lahia earlier this month when Israeli quadcopter drones buzzed overhead . Over the past 14 months , Almasri has lived in several shelters after her family home in Beit Hanoun was bombed in the early weeks of October 2023 . <p> Her husband , Mohammed , and her father-in-law were trying to retrieve food and belongings from the remnants of their home when it was bombed again . Mohammed was killed , and his father was severely injured . " My son Amir was just 25 days old when his father was killed . His sister , Mira , was only one-and-a-half years old , " Almasri told Middle East Eye . " It 's unbearable to look after the two children without their father . " <p> This was only the latest attack in a weeks-old Israel military offensive on northern Gaza , which had left Palestinian civilians with three bitter choices : to be killed by bombardment ; starve to death or be forcibly displaced . Only a few days after the Israeli army entered Beit Lahia in October , Almasri had run out of food and water for her family . " I would give most of my food to my children , but they were still hungry , always crying , " she told MEE . " We were drinking salty water . My daughter , Mira , suffered from dehydration , but I could n't do anything to help her . " Despite their lack of food , water and medicine and the relentless bombardment and siege , Almasri had refused to leave Beit Lahia , saying she had no other safe place to go . <p> Israeli occupation forces yesterday blew up houses in the southern Lebanese city of Tyre , bringing the number of their violations of the ceasefire agreement to 227 . Since 27 November , a precarious ceasefire agreement has been in effect between Israel and Hezbollah , ending the increase in tensions which began on 8 October 2023 and turned into a large-scale war on 23 September when Israel intensified its bombing campaign including of Beirut . The official Lebanese News Agency said : " The Israeli enemy blew up a number of houses in the villages of West Bekaa on the outskirts of Naqoura , Chihine and Al-Jabeen in the Tyre district . " <p> The Israeli occupation army committed six violations on Saturday , including killing one person . With Sunday 's bombings , the number of Israeli violations of the ceasefire since it came into effect 19 days ago has risen to 227 , resulting in a total of 30 deaths and 31 injuries , according to the figures reported by Anadolu news agency , based on announcements from the Ministry of Health and the Lebanese News Agency as of 19:10 GMT yesterday . The Israeli aggression on Lebanon resulted in 4,061 deaths and 16,656 injuries , including many children and women . It also displaced about 1,400,000 people . <p> The prime minister since October 7 seems to be angling for a legacy as the leader who expanded Israel 's borders from Gaza in the south to Syria and the Golan Heights in the north . Israel has portrayed its takeover of the demilitarised zone without resistance as a defensive measure , the creation of a security perimeter after the Syrian army abandoned its posts on the border . <p> The IDF celebrated the operation with photos of the Israeli flag atop Mount Hermon , and tanks in the town of Quneitra , but it obscured the fact that this was on Syrian land . Israel has told the international community that the operation was limited ; the army took over just a few positions that overlook the Syrians . But Netanyahu is n't satisfied with erasing the borderlines and the security agreement for the Golan . <p> In his testimony at his corruption trial Tuesday , he went further , saying that " something tectonic has happened here , an earthquake that has n't happened in the 100 years since the Sykes-Picot Agreement . " The mention of the 1916 agreement between colonial powers Britain and France , which divided up the Ottoman Empire and created the states that exist to this day , was n't intended to teach a history lesson to the judges at the Tel Aviv District Court . Netanyahu is implying that the border agreements based on Sykes-Picot are dead and buried . Netanyahu wants to be remembered as the one who created Greater Israel , not just as a political schemer accused of corruption who abandoned 100 hostages in Gaza . That 's why he 'll try to cement Israeli control in northern Gaza . That 's why he wo n't rush to withdraw from the newly occupied territory in the Golan . Under certain circumstances , he might even expand it . <p> Israel is already " changing " the Middle East , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said yesterday , noting that he spoke with US President-elect Donald Trump about the need to " complete the victory . " This comes as the Israeli occupation government approved a plan to boost " population growth " in the illegal settlements located in the occupied Syrian Golan Heights , with a budget of more than 40 million shekels ( about $11.2 million ) . The decision coincides with the escalation in Israel 's attacks on Syria following the fall of the Bashar Al-Assad regime . Netanyahu said : " A year ago , I said something simple : We would change the face of the Middle East , and we are indeed doing so . Syria is not the same Syria . Lebanon is not the same Lebanon . Gaza is not the same Gaza . And the head of the axis , Iran , is not the same Iran ; it has also felt the might of our arm . " <p> Israeli Army population -- control and pastoral sabotage:Nablus -- 08:45 , Israeli Occupation forces took prisoner a working shepherd , Zaher Yousef Ayesh Hamza , as he was tending his flock . <p> Israeli Army agricultural sabotage , population -- control and extortion:Jericho -- Occupation forces , in the village of al-Nuweimah , bulldozed crops of tomatoes , zucchini and eggplants , as well ascompletely destroying the irrigation network . They then forced the farmers to pay them for the bulldozing and agricultural sabotage . <p> Israeli Army population -- control:Bethlehem -- evening , the Israeli Army blocked entrance to the village of al-Manshiya . <p> Israeli Army population -- control:Bethlehem -- evening , Israeli troops closed the western entrance to the city of Beit Jallah , as well as the entrance to the Ash Ghurab area , east of Beit Sahour . <p> Israeli Army armed robbery and population -- control:Bethlehem -- evening , the Israeli military seized two road-building machines being used to construct a new village road . <p> Israeli Army population -- control:Bethlehem -- Occupation forces issued stop-work orders against land reclamation in two Battir village areas as well as the removal of what had so-far been completed . <p> Israeli Army population -- control : Hebron -- evening , Israeli soldiers closed the entrance to the Ein al-Hamra area -- the only road for residents of the Salaymeh and al-Ja'bari neighbourhoods . They also fenced -- off , with barbed wire , the Ibrahimi Mosque . <p> Occupation settlement development and vandalism : Hebron -- evening , Israeli Occupation forces began bulldozing land near the entrance to the village of Deir Razeh , in order to build a new settlement road . <p> Leslie Bravery is a Londoner with vivid World War Two memories of the Nazi blitz on his home town . In 1947/1948 His father explained to him what was happening to the Palestinians thus : " Any ideology or political movement that creates refugees in the process of realising its ambitions must be inhuman and should be opposed and condemned as unacceptable . " What followed confirmed this assessment of the Zionist entity a hundredfold . Now a retired flamenco guitarist , with a lifelong interest in the tragedy of what happened to the Palestinian people , he tries to publicise their plight . Because the daily injustices they suffer barely get a mention in the mainstream news media , Leslie edits/compiles a daily newsletter , In Occupied Palestine , for the Palestine Human Rights Campaign . These days , to preserve his sanity , he enjoys taking part in a drama group whenever possible !
