<p> Of late , a spate of incidents has taken place in Australia giving sheer delight to the simian-resembling Opposition Leader , Peter Dutton . On a visit to South Australia , he showed himself to be merrily divisive in attacking protestors who had shown solidarity for Palestinians in Gaza in the wake of their catastrophic suffering since October last year : " If you allow these lunatics to continue their protests at university campuses and you allow them to spew their hatred and affiliate with a listed terrorist organisation , and there is no consequence , of course we 'll see the sort of outcomes we have seen -- which most recently has culminated in the firebombing of a synagogue in Melbourne " . <p> The December 6 attack on the Adass Israel Synagogue in Melbourne , while horrid , was immediately elevated to a level of concern warranting an emergency -- that , at least , was the view of Dutton and his charges . The attacks on mosques and their worshippers , a feature of Australian public life for some years now , hardly warranted a mention . ( A 2021 joint study by three Australian universities surveying 75 mosques found that 58.2% had experienced violence between 2014 and 2019 . ) <p> Advertisement - scroll to continue reading <p> Dutton also had inspiration from another source . " The burning of the Adass Israel synagogue in Melbourne is an abhorrent act of antisemitism , " stated Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on platform X. " I expect the state authorities to use their full weight to prevent such antisemitic acts in future . " <p> Ever the opportunist , Netanyahu saw a chance to see unsubstantiated links between the bombing in Melbourne , Australian foreign policy and antisemitism . " Unfortunately , it is impossible to separate this reprehensible act from the extreme anti-Israeli position of the Labor government in Australia , including the scandalous decision to support the UN resolution calling on Israel ' to bring an end to its unlawful presence in the Occupied Palestinian Territory , as rapidly as possible ' , and preventing a former Israeli minister from entering the country . " The conclusion was childishly simple : " Anti-Israel sentiment is antisemitism . " <p> This unbridled nonsense had its effect . In the aftermath of the synagogue attack , Australia 's antisemitism envoy , Jillian Segal , got busy . On the Australian public broadcaster SBS , she took the rather authoritarian view that Australian cities were no place for protests against Israeli policies towards the Palestinians . " There should be places designated away from where the Jewish community might venture , where people can demonstrate . " Presumably , pro-Palestinian protestors needed to be given , like smokers , caged areas to engage in their activities , leaving the pure and docile safe to go about their everyday business . <p> In Segal 's view , the weekly protests held in solidarity for Palestinians in Gaza and the West Bank had become " something more sinister " . Not only were they " intimidatory " , they had " morphed into attacking the Jewish community . " Not exactly furnished with much by way of evidence , she pointed to the display of " flags from a terrorist organisation " and " anti-Jewish sentiments " seen and heard at rallies . Demagogy always resists context . <p> Amnesty International Australia , in a December 13 statement , expressed its strong opposition to Segal 's call " to ban pro-Palestinian protests from city centres . Protests advocating for a ceasefire , the protection of human rights , and an end to Israel 's genocide of Palestinians in Gaza are an essential and protected outlet for Australians to freely express their views . " It was vital to distinguish instances of " hateful acts and calls for justice , freedom , and human dignity . " <p> These views are correct -- to a point . As Australia lacks a human rights charter protecting the right to lawful assembly and free speech , parliaments at both the federal and state level can show sneering contempt for protests when they wish to do so . Wishing to jump to the aid of Segal and the unspecified fearful in the Jewish community , Victoria 's Premier Jacinta Allan has done just that , proposing legislation that targets pro-Palestinian protests . " Antisemitism , " she solemnly stated , " thrives in extreme and radical environments , and we are giving police more powers to control protest and making it harder for agents of violence and hate to hide . " <p> Allan gives the impression that the proposed laws are universal in nature . " Does n't matter if you 're Christian , Jewish Muslim , Sikh , Hindu -- you all deserve the right to simply be who we are " . However , things become very clear with the explicit mention " that Jewish people increasingly feel the promise of a modern and multicultural Victoria is being denied them . " <p> The ludicrously named Anti-Vilification and Social Cohesion Bill 2024 will not only , as the premier noted in a public announcement , ban the flags and symbols of designated terrorist organisations ( Hamas and Hezbollah included ) , undefined " white nationalists " ( presumably those of other colours slip under the radar ) , " and more " : the statute will also focus on the decorative and dramatic nature of protest . Masks , " used by agitators to shield identities and hide from personal accountability " , are to be banned , along with glue , rope , chains , locks and other devices " used to cause maximum disruption and endanger Victorians . " This shows that protestors of all stripes , including those concerned with climate change and environment , will also be targeted . <p> Showing a conventional loathing for Victoria 's own Charter of Human Rights , which has a paper tiger protection for freedom of assembly , Allan condescendingly shreds it : " the right to protest is balanced against the right of people to live safely -- free of danger , discrimination and harassment . " <p> The beneficiaries in all of this are the noisy , bellicose members of the pro-Israel lobby , a divisive federal opposition keen to capitalise on hatreds it claims not to have , and the State of Israel itself . However murderous , annihilating and cruel its policies might be to the Palestinians , the belief shared by many of its defenders is that the Jewish state is faultless , beyond the moral and soiling reach of any protest . To think otherwise would instance , as Netanyahu barkingly insists , antisemitism . <p> Dr. Binoy Kampmark was a Commonwealth Scholar at Selwyn College , Cambridge . He currently lectures at RMIT University . Email : bkampmark@gmail.com <h> Using Scoop for work ? <p> Scoop is free for personal use , but you 'll need a licence for work use . This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop . Join today with plans starting from less than $3 per week , plus gain access to exclusive Pro features .
