<h> West and media are ' erasing ' Palestinian history , say critics <p> This image " will haunt history " - how did humanity allow this ? Palestinian history is is being " erased " as part of Western news media narratives , according to leading academics . Image : X/@RyanRozbiani <p> Asia Pacific Report <p> Palestinian history is " deliberately ignored " and is being effectively " erased " as part of Western news media narratives , while establishment forces work to shut down anyone speaking out against Israel 's slaughter in Gaza , academics have told a university conference of legal and Middle East experts . <p> Although the conference took place over one and-a-half days in July and brought together Arab , Muslim , Jewish and Indigenous speakers from Palestine , Australia , Germany , Japan , the United States and the United Kingdom , details have only just been released . <p> The release of the conference proceedings comes more than one year on from the start of the Israeli War on Gaza , now extended into Lebanon , Syria and Yemen , with arrest warrants issued by the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) for Israel 's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defence Minister Yoav Gallant , and an Amnesty International investigation concluding Israel is committing genocide against Palestinians in Gaza . <p> The western media has ranged from selective reporting of facts ... and publishing outright lies that justify the murder of Palestinians . <p> By comparison 63 journalists were killed in 20 years of the Vietnam War . <p> Posed war crime questions The conference posed major questions regarding the erasing of Palestinian history , how it enables present-day war crimes and how defiance has resonated and inspired ongoing resistance by : <p> Palestinians fighting to defend their lives and their land , or as seen around the world , in civic protests ; <p> the BDS ( Boycott , Divestment and Sanctions ) movement ; <p> human rights advocacy ; <p> alternative social media production ; and <p> legal challenges in the highest of our international institutions , the ICC and the International Court of Justice . <p> The conference was officially opened with the Welcome to Country , from Uncle Greg Simms , Gadigal elder of the Dharug Nation . <p> Uncle Greg spoke about the importance of land and country to the survival of Australia 's Indigenous people , the role of ancestral ties and connections , the importance of history and allies in the face of genocide , and the need to empathise with the people of Palestine at this time . <p> Dr Janine Hourani 's address . Video : UTS <p> Janine Hourani from the University of Exeter and Palestinian Youth Movement , in her keynote speech detailed the history of Palestinian resistance to Zionist occupation , addressing how the recording of history , privileged by a select few , served to stifle narratives , as well as erase key figures and moments in time , " reproducing a particular version of Palestinian history that focuses on defeat and loss , rather than resistance and rebellion " . <p> " The Western media has ranged from selective reporting of facts , reporting Palestinians as ' died ' and Israeli settlers as ' murdered ' and publishing outright lies that justify the murder of Palestinians , " said Hourani . <p> " Since October we 've heard multiple political interventions being made about the Western media 's complicity in the current genocide in Palestine . " <p> Souheir Edalbi , a law lecturer at Western Sydney University , convened the session that followed , featuring four speakers . <p> Udi Raz , an academic and activist based in Germany , presented a case study of Mizrahi or Arab Jews in Germany , interrogating the definition of semitism and otherness in that context , the culturally pervasive racism towards Arabs , and German anxieties about what constitutes a non-European identity . <p> Annie Pfingst , an author and academic , listed 11 different types of " erasure " by Israel , from the confiscation , possession and renaming of Palestinian villages through to the holding of Palestinian bodies killed by the Israeli forces , not returned to their families , or buried in the " cemetery of numbers " . <p> She described a " necrological regime " that turns dead bodies into prisoners of the state , penalising and torturing the community , serving " to further evict the native in line with the structure of the settler colonial imperative of elimination " . <p> We have seen many instances of pro-Palestinian voices who have been sacked from their work places . <p> Jessica Holland , a researcher , curator and archivist , discussed how the history of archiving of Palestinian material is " deeply embedded within a legacy of coloniality " , and the importance of Palestinian social history and archiving projects , in redressing and countering hegemonic understandings and organisation of materials . <p> " We have seen in the past few days the treatment of Senator Fatima Payman and the intimidation , bullying and silencing she has endured . <p> " We have also seen many instances of pro-Palestinian voices who have been sacked from their work places . " <p> On day two of the conference Aunty Glendra Stubbs gave the Acknowledgement of Country , which was followed by the keynote speaker Jeff Halper , anthropologist , author , lecturer , political activist and director of the Israeli Committee Against House Demolitions . <p> Normalising violence Halper addressed how Israel as a Zionist settler colonial state normalises violence , erasure and apartheid against Palestinians , where physical and cultural genocide are built in , necessitating indigenous resistance . <p> A second panel , " Social Movements , in Defiance " , convened by Alison Harwood , a social change practitioner , included speakers Nasser Mashni from the Australia Palestine Advocacy Network ( APAN ) , Sarah Schwartz from the Jewish Council of Australia , and Latoya Rule from UTS Jumbunna Institute for Indigenous Education and Research . <p> Speakers shared insights on how social movements mobilise from within their diverse communities , to reach and potentially impact the Australian and international social and political stage . <p> Interdisciplinary storyteller and media producer Daz Chandler presented a series of pre-recorded interviews and a live discussion with participants involved in University campus encampments from around the world including activists from Birzeit University in the Occupied West Bank , Mexico , Trinity College in Dublin , UCLA , the University of Melbourne , University of Tokyo , University of Sydney and Monash University . <p> Each reflected on their work and the challenges they encountered in their respective professional fields . Obstructions they faced ranged from hindering and silencing the expression of ideas , through to the prevention of carrying out critical on-the-ground work to save lives . <p> Hometown of Nablus The final panel of the conference was moderated by Derek Halawa , a Palestinian living in the diaspora , who shared his experience of travelling to his hometown of Nablus . <p> He followed virtual footsteps from his cousin 's video , through the alley ways , to reach the home of his great grandfather , a journey which culminated in reaching the steps of Al Aqsa Mosque , with both spaces symbolising belonging and hope . <p> Cathy Peters , media worker and co-founder of BDS Australia described a diverse range of disruption movements calling for the end of ties with Israeli companies , since the war on Gaza . <p> This was followed by RIta Jabri Markwell , solicitor and adviser to the Australian Muslim Advocacy Network , addressing specific points of Australian law dealing with terrorism , freedom of speech , and racial discrimination . <p> The conference , which was was co-convened by Barbara Bloch , Wafa Chafic , James Goodman , Derek Halawa and Christina Ho , concluded with UTS Sociology Professor James Goodman giving an overview of the proceedings and potential actions post-conference . <p> One post-conference outcome is an additional series of interviews produced by Daz Chandler exploring the power of creative practices utilised within the Palestinian resistance movement .
