<p> Social media censorship is a global phenomenon , but the war on pro-Palestinian views on social media represents a different kind of censorship , with consequences that can only be described as dire . <p> Long before the current devastating war on Gaza and the escalation of Israeli violence and repression in the occupied West Bank , Palestinian and pro-Palestinian voices have been censored . <p> Some date the censorship to an agreement in 2016 that , according to the Israeli government , sought to " force social networks to remove content that Israel considers to be incitement . " <p> This was translated , almost immediately , to the shutting down of thousands of accounts and the barring of many social media influencers , with the hope of slowing down the vastly growing pro-Palestinian tendencies in all Meta-linked platforms . <p> The war on Gaza , however , has escalated the censorship . In a report submitted to the United Nations Special Rapporteur on Freedom of Opinion and Expression , Human Rights Watch noted that the documented restrictions on freedom of speech " undermine the fundamental human rights to freedom of expression and assembly . " <p> Advertisement - scroll to continue reading <p> The censorship became so sophisticated and increasingly involved a direct Israeli role . To ensure that ' offenders ' to Israeli sensibilities were eliminated in large numbers , Meta began censoring specific words , thus deeming entire contents offensive , racist , and antisemitic . <p> But Meta was not the only social media network involved in this practice . On November 17 , 2023 , the X platform ( previously known as Twitter ) declared that users who write terms like " decolonization " , " from the river to the sea " , or similar expressions would be suspended . <p> One year later , the social media platform Twitch followed suit by revising its ' Hateful Content Policy ' to include " Zionist " as a potential slur . <p> Not only do these decisions , and many others , directly impair the freedom of speech and press , but they also confuse rational conversations with anti-Jewish sentiments . <p> The word ' genocide ' , for example , is not a swear word , but a common term , embraced by numerous countries around the world , accusing Israel of carrying out acts of genocide , meaning the " systematic destruction of a group of people because of their ethnicity , nationality , religion , or race " . <p> Under pressure from many countries , and after presenting a powerful case at the Hague , South Africa managed to compel the International Court of Justice to investigate Israel 's acts of genocide in the Gaza Strip in violation of the 1948 Genocide Convention . <p> In other words , this is not a matter for Mark Zuckerberg or any other social media company to decide , based on direct consultations with those carrying out the mass killings in Gaza . <p> The same applies to Zionism , an ideologically situated political movement , that traces its history to 19th-century Europe , thus , neither to a specific race nor a religious text . <p> While many are , rightly , outraged by the fact that this kind of widespread , and growing , censorship directly challenges the main tenants of democracy , the actual harm for Palestinians is much bigger . <p> According to a November 2024 report by the Sada Social Center for Digital Rights , the surge in digital violations targeting Palestinian content could not come at a worse time . <p> According to the organization , " Meta platforms accounted for the largest share of violations at 57% , followed by TikTok at 23% . " YouTube and X follow at 13 and 7% respectively . <p> This censorship , according to Sada , includes the shutting down of WhatsApp accounts , another Meta-owned platform that is also tightly controlled . <p> Unlike most of us , Palestinians in Gaza use these platforms to communicate with one another , to know who is dead and who is alive , and to raise awareness of certain massacres , often taking place in isolation , especially in the northern Gaza Strip . <p> Regarding northern Gaza , Sada Social spoke of a ' digital blackout ' , which has compounded the horror of that region - famine , mass killing , destruction of all hospitals , etc . <p> In the specific case of social media censorship in Gaza , lives are literally being lost as a result of politically motivated decisions . <p> HRW was one of many rights groups that have routinely spoken about the ' systematic censorship ' by Meta . A December 2023 HRW report identified the following recurring patterns of censorship : removal of content , suspension of pro-Palestinian accounts , the reduction of visibility , known as ' shadow-banning ' , the restrictions on engagement , and the deliberate misuse of policies on hate speech and graphic content . <p> The danger of this kind of censorship is multilayered . It is a direct threat to one of the most basic freedoms guaranteed under the law in any democratic society . In the case of Gaza , the censorship takes a dark , deadly turn as it could make the difference between people dying under the rubble of their homes or receiving assistance . <p> Additionally , censorship of this magnitude often creates precedents and often leads to other forms of censorship that , in fact , are already taking place against other vulnerable communities , whether on a national stage or globally . <p> While the international community is yet to translate its verbal solidarity with Palestinians into any meaningful action , the least we could do is to give Palestinians their full rights to express their views , share their pain , and raise awareness of their collective plight . The world owes them that much , and no social media company should be permitted to hinder such a simple and reasonable demand . <p> - Dr. Ramzy Baroud is a journalist , author and the Editor of The Palestine Chronicle . He is the author of six books . His latest book , co-edited with Ilan Papp ? , is ' Our Vision for Liberation : Engaged Palestinian Leaders and Intellectuals Speak Out ' . His other books include ' My Father was a Freedom Fighter ' and ' The Last Earth ' . Baroud is a Non-resident Senior Research Fellow at the Center for Islam and Global Affairs ( CIGA ) . His website is www.ramzybaroud.net <h> Using Scoop for work ? <p> Scoop is free for personal use , but you 'll need a licence for work use . This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop . Join today with plans starting from less than $3 per week , plus gain access to exclusive Pro features .
