<p> With the cost of living sky high and streamers doing all they can to keep us cemented to our couches , the idea of going out for a night at the movies felt like quite the luxury experience in 2024 . This is reflected in declining cinema attendance around the world , with the local industry reportedly still 25% below what it was in 2019 , and some smalltown independent cinemas struggling to keep the lights on . Still , there are glimmers of hope . Here are the movie experiences we loved this year , from the big , bold blockbusters that had us all singing in the aisles , the festival darlings that challenged and changed us , and the spooky serial killer flicks that scared the crap out of us . <h> Wicked <p> Let 's get the bad out of the way : yes , the lighting is horrendous and somehow everyone is backlit from every angle . It did n't need to be nearly three hours long when it 's only the first part . And as much as I love her , Michelle Yeoh 's icon status is not enough to excuse the fact that her voice is three grades below her nearest co-star . There were enough mega famous names to justify casting an actual singer in every singing part . <p> But despite all of that , I went to see Wicked with virtually no knowledge of the material and it was the most fun I 've had at the movies in years . Ariana Grande is a true star with comedic timing that never ceased to amaze me . Cynthia Erivo is just a perfect voice . The weird press tour energy means their chemistry really , really works . And it 's all helped by being based on a musical that millions of people have adored already . If the lighting was even just decent , I 'd pick it for Best Picture for sheer movieness . Unfortunately the lighting was horrific and therefore it will just have to be the only movie I 've ever paid to see twice in its original run . / Madeleine Chapman <h> We Were Dangerous <p> Like any human with a beating heart , I 'm a sucker for a coming-of-age story , and there were many parts of We Were Dangerous that felt on par with some of the very best of the genre . Set in the 1950s on a scorched golden Banks Peninsula outpost , the film follows a trio of rebel pals at Te Motu , an island school for " incorrigible and delinquent girls " . <p> Directed by Josephine Stewart-Te Whiu and written by Maddie Dai , the film delves into complex issues like colonisation , patriarchy and abuse of power , but all with an remarkably deft lightness of touch that leaves it a soaring celebration of misfits and girlhood , rather than another maudlin addition to our cinema of unease . In fact , parts of it are extremely funny and there 's a joyful scene that rivals the likes of Girlhood and How to Have Sex in its depiction young girls dancing like nobody is watching . Also , Rima Te Wiata as The Matron is surely the local film performance of the year . / Alex Casey <h> Didi <p> Speaking of coming-of-age charmers , Didi was my favourite from the film festival this year . Set in 2008 , when your Myspace top eight was the defining social strata and YouTube was a place strictly for skate videos and lo-fi parody songs , Taiwanese-American kid Chris is flubbing his way through friendship and family drama . Although its a classic case of being caught between worlds -- the cute kid brother making videos with his grandma at home and the suave skater boy trying to woo his crush online -- Didi resists falling into cliche . <p> Instead , it manages to be surprising , deeply moving and hilarious while still feeling kinda downbeat and low-key . It is also a perfect rendering of the primitive social media age , and a treat to be a part of the firmly millennial audience who know the gravity of a &lt;3 instead of a : ) on your flip phone . / AC <h> La Chimera <p> My favourite film of 2024 was actually released in 2023 but I only discovered it via AroVision and the Italian Film festival this year . It is set in Tuscany in the 80s and stars Josh O'Connor ( young King Charles in The Crown ) as Arthur , a grieving archaeologist with a gift for divining Etruscan tombs for looting . O'Connor is sublime in the role : intense , sad , grubby and searching . The cast of fellow tomb raiders form a charming , surreal gaggle around him : they 're all shabby , grasping at a living by messing with the stuff of the dead . Isabella Rossellini is fantastic as a sharp , elderly voice coach ; and Carol Duarte is beguiling as her wayward , lively singing student/maid who is hiding two kids in Rossellini 's run-down mansion . <p> The deeper story of grief in the film is gorgeous , heart-breaking and magical . Director Alice Rohrwacher has crafted a timeless piece of cinema that is worlds away from all the hollywood meh and everything a movie should be . / Claire Mabey <h> Challengers <p> The year 's sweatiest and horniest film , without any sex -- just a whole lot of Luca Guadagnino-style erotic kissing and objects acting as symbolic genitals . It 's supposed to be a film about a woman whose promising career in tennis was shattered by an injury , and now she 's a mother and wife to a family she does n't care for , and would trade her tennis champion husband for her rookie lover in a heartbeat . <p> But mostly , it 's a film that feels like a tennis match -- the camerawork is sharp , cinematography crisp , atmosphere dripping and the soundtrack by Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross wraps it up in a nice , sweaty and adrenalin inducing film . It also unfortunately gave us the Hot Rodent Man trend , and the ability to now look at any trio with a vague sexual tension between them and say " I 'm telling my children this was Challengers " . / Lyric Waiwiri-Smith <h> Zone of Interest <p> Sometimes movies are n't meant to be at all enjoyable and Zone of Interest is one of those movies . Rudolph H ? ss was the Nazi commandant of the Auschwitz concentration camp . He and his wife Hedwig live next door to the camp , growing vegetables , raising their children and hosting parties as thousands of Jews are executed over the fence . Their home lives and concerns are as mundane as any one else 's , which is the whole point . <p> Early in the film there is a scene where Hedwig tries on a fur coat that was confiscated from a Jewish woman , posing in the mirror and frowning at her slightly protruding stomach . It 's a quiet and horrifying scene . After seeing the movie back in March , I opened up a social media app on my phone and watched an IDF soldier standing in a home in Gaza , holding up " gifts " for his wife that he 'd found among the Palestinian owners ' belongings . Zone of Interest is a must-see movie , if only to remind us of what is currently happening over our own fences . / MC <h> Longlegs <p> I want to be clear that this movie makes absolutely no sense , but boy did it provide one of the most fun cinema experiences I had this year . Nicolas Cage plays a terrifying satanic Mickey Rourke lookalike who goes by the name of Longlegs , a freaky fellah who has long evaded law enforcement in his decades-long staging of murder-suicides with huge occult vibes . While Maika Monroe is great as the detective trying to crack his code , Longlegs lives and dies on Nicolas Cage , whose rendition of ' Happy Birthday ' has to be the scariest thing I 've seen this year . <p> While Longlegs is essentially hollow horror homage all the way down from the director ( who is Anthony Perkins son ) , to the clear Silence of the Lambs setting , to the Zodiac flourishes , the sold out Terror-Fi session was still a bloody good time . I challenge anyone not to flinch in the opening sequence . / AC <h> All We Imagine As Light <p> All We Imagine As Light is an incredibly dreamy film set in monsoonal Mumbai , where central characters Prabha , Anu and Parvati work together in a big hospital . Prabha , played by Kani Kusruti , is a gentle and capable nurse , slightly bemused by her husband moving to Germany and stopping the calls back home . She 's a compassionate roommate to Anu ( Divya Prabha ) , a younger nurse who is controversially in love with a Muslim boy , and whose quick efficiency -- for example , prescribing birth control pills to a worried patient -- is offset by her love of sauntering around Mumbai , trying on sunglasses and kissing in the rain . Prabha and Anu work together to help their colleague Parvati , a cook , move after a lack of documentation means she is forced from her home by property developers . <p> As the characters shift between speaking Malayalam , from their home state of Kerala , Marathi and Hindi , the film investigates what women 's freedom looks like in extremely unequal contemporary India , and how there is space for playfulness and intrigue even within restrictive social codes . With lush shots of monsoon downpours , apartments at night and sprawling beaches , the movie has a total confidence in the beauty of the world . After a festival run , it 'll be back in cinemas from Boxing Day . I 'm planning to go and see it again with my sister . / Shanti Mathias <h> Twisters <p> The past few years have seen big tent pop culture become increasingly coded toward a Democrat worldview , whether through messaging ( the feminist awakening of Greta Gerwig 's Barbie ) or outright endorsement ( Taylor Swift ) . As the last election proved , that was on some level alienating to at least half of the US voting population . Hollywood remains a hits business , and after multiple years with multiplexes trading down double digits , Twisters suggests that Michael Jordan 's famous " Republicans buy sneakers too " truism is being reabsorbed at an institutional level . <p> The film is a reimagining of the 1996 original , and features an extremely on-the-nose pair of cyphers for each side of the political aisle . The Democrat-coded crew are all science and climate change and secretly working for a dastardly corporation . The Republicans are YouTubers who look unserious but deep down have a heart of gold . It 's so silly , but undeniably entertaining in its naked financially-motivated pandering . It also took in US$371m against a budget of US$155m -- so expect many more movies with country soundtracks venerating middle America in years to come . / DG <h> Letterboxd 's Four Favourites <p> Not strictly a movie , but in many ways a series of short films entirely regarding movies . Film review site Letterboxdis an incredible local success story , now with millions of users around the world nattering about what movies they have been loving and loathing . But perhaps even more importantly than that , Letterboxd has created a great interview format that endlessly delivers gorgeous insights into the rich and famous : four favourites . It 's a very simple question -- what are your four favourite films ? -- that provokes staggeringly different answers , interpretations , energies and pronunciations . How else would we know that Halsey has a huge tattoo from Portrait of a Lady on Fire , or that Anne Hathaway loves Dancer in the Dark , or that Nicholas Galatzine loooooves Shrek 2 ? Take four favourites to the family gathering this Christmas and let the good times roll . / AC <h> American Fiction <p> Justice for pop culture released right at the end of the year ! American Fiction technically came out in mid-December 2023 , but I watched it in January and have been thinking about it all year . Adapted from a 2001 Percival Everett novel , American Fiction concerns an academic who , frustrated by the white acclaim poured onto books with a very narrow vision of Black American experience , writes what he intends as a ludicrous parody of the genre , only to have it become a huge hit . <p> Director Cord Jefferson spent years writing for Gawker , and American Fiction has some deeply funny elements of the site 's unblinking eye for the phoniness of US cultural elites . But it has this thread of un-Gawkerish empathy for all participants in the system too , helped by a deeply felt performance from Jeffrey Wright . Few pieces of pop culture have even attempted such a sophisticated analysis of the intellectual banalities of this era -- to achieve a bullseye while also being so consistently entertaining is truly remarkable . / Duncan Greive <h> A Real Pain <p> If you want to see Kieran Culkin and Jesse Eisenberg playing thee most Kieran Culkin and Jesse Eisenberg characters that could ever be conjured upon a silver screen , I would run as fast as you can to see A Real Pain when it opens here on Boxing Day . The pair play cousins who were joined at the hip growing up , but have grown apart in adulthood . Eisenberg 's David is a straight-laced family man and Culkin 's Benji a loose unit in a tie dye hoodie , clearly now polar opposites when they reunite at the airport to embark on a trip to Poland to honour their late grandmother . <p> What begins as a truly hilarious misfit road movie slowly peels back the layers of family tension and intergenerational trauma , and ends up something else entirely . Written and directed by Eisenberg himself , the script sometimes explains a tad too much , but both the lead performances ( particularly Culkin 's , which has mega Oscar buzz already ) made this one of the more memorable movies of 2024 for me. / AC <p> Sign up to Rec Room , The Spinoff 's weekly guide to the very best in entertainment , delivered to your inbox every Friday .
