<h> The Democratic Party Faces Its Day Of Reckoning <p> Following its crushing defeat in the 2024 election , the Democratic Party might finally face its day of reckoning . The party markets itself as the champion of the working class and a bulwark against the party of the plutocrats . But this has been a lie for at least three decades . <p> The Democratic Party has partnered with Wall Street donors since at least the 1990s . Under President Bill Clinton , the party overturned Glass Steagall and other New Deal programs that had effectively restrained Wall Street greed for 60 years . It also sold out American workers with so-called trade deals that freed their bosses to ship American jobs overseas . It ended welfare " as we know it " and passed draconian crime bills that destroyed mostly black and brown communities , sending mothers and fathers to prison for decades in the name of a cruel and senseless war on drugs . <p> Into the 21st century , the Democrats continued pushing the lie that they were fighting for working people . After September 11 , 2001 , the party put up a token resistance to the Bush/Cheney regime of illegal regime-change wars , black sites , indefinite detention and torture . All the while , it continued soliciting campaign contributions from the arms dealers profiting from Bush 's wars . <p> In 2008 , the party found a Black face to carry on its Wall Street-friendly agenda . Gullible Americans , myself included , were taken in by Barack Obama 's promises to end " dumb wars " and to institute a single payer healthcare system . We ignored the red flags , like the fact that Obama 's campaign broke records in pocketing Wall Street donations . It was later revealed by Wikileaks that nearly every member of Obama 's cabinet had been selected by the giant Wall Street bank Citigroup . <p> Advertisement - scroll to continue reading <p> It did n't take long for President Obama to crush our hopes that he was a different kind of Democrat . One of his first acts as president was to funnel trillions of dollars to the big banks that , newly freed by Clinton from FDR-era regulations , had embarked on an orgy of unbridled greed , swindling millions of Americans out of their homes and retirement savings with a scheme to sell worthless mortgage-backed securities . <p> Adding insult to injury , Obama saw to it that the bailed-out bank executives faced no criminal prosecutions and received their year-end bonuses . In their place , the Obama Justice Department brought federal mortgage fraud charges against thousands of poor people -- I represented a half dozen of these folks -- who had signed their names to the phony mortgage loans that the Wall Street bankers encouraged , packaged and sold to pension funds and other unwitting investors . <p> The pipe dream that Obama would be an anti-war president was also quickly dispatched . During his two terms , Obama ushered in a new era of continuous war , envisioned by George Orwell and favored by Wall Street . Obama expanded Bush 's bombing campaigns into Libya , Pakistan , Yemen , Syria and Somalia . Today 's Democratic Party is indistinguishable from the Republicans in its ties to war profiteers and trillion-dollar Pentagon budgets . <p> Obama also effectively ended the Democrats ' promise to fight for a true national health care system in which all Americans would be able to go to the doctor when sick without fear of bankrupting their families . In its place , Obama pushed through a health care plan developed in right-wing think tanks , that guaranteed profits ( and taxpayer subsidies ) for the private insurance industry and did little to contain costs . <p> By 2012 , Glen Ford of the Black Agenda Report was describing the Democratic Party as the " more effective evil " for using its reputation as protector of the working class to neutralize effective opposition and push through right-wing policies that the Republicans could not get passed . <p> In 2016 , the Democrats received a wake-up call when their chosen successor to Obama lost the White House to a crude-talking New York City real estate developer and game show host with no prior political experience . But with the help of its partners in corporate media , the party managed to limp along for another eight years , first by telling the American people that President Trump was an agent of Russia , and then by claiming that Trump was Hitler who was planning concentration camps and firing squads for his political enemies . <p> Now after the November 2024 elections in which Trump won every swing state and the popular vote , the Democratic party is finally being forced to face some uncomfortable truths . The party 's partners in the corporate media initially tried blaming the election result on the voters for being too misogynist , too racist , or too dumb to vote correctly . But there is little trust that remains in corporate media . <p> The party 's corporate consultants have put the blame on the party 's excessive focus on identity politics . But the issues for the Democrats run much deeper than bad messaging . The real problem is that the party takes direction from plutocrats whose interests are antagonistic to the needs of the working people it pretends to represent . Both Democrats and Republicans are financed by the same corporate interests . Thus , there is general agreement and support for policies that guarantee high rates of return on investment capital , policies like continuous war , for-profit health care , and outsourcing jobs . This leaves few issues for the parties to fight about other than abortion and identity politics . <p> Fifty years ago , American capitalists still relied on American workers to build everything from cars and televisions to sneakers and light bulbs . These titans of industry had to care about things such as functioning schools , decent wages , cities and public transportation . But the times have changed . Today 's plutocrats support outsourcing jobs to low-wage countries and have little concern for the condition of American workers . And while ordinary Americans want the country 's resources to be spent at home , plutocrats are heavily invested in foreign wars , and they shun diplomacy . <p> These contradictions could only be covered up for so long . Even with reliable partners in the corporate press , the internet has given Americans alternative sources for their news . During the last few years , in a desperate effort to keep its scheme afloat , the Democrats embraced censorship and a regime of corporate " fact checkers " to police social media and remove or punish unsanctioned speech . In so doing , the party abandoned the last of its core principles : standing up for free speech and the right to dissent . <p> Many Democrats argue that they had to go after Wall Street money to compete with the Republicans . In 2016 , Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer explained the strategy : " For every blue-collar Democrat we lose in western Pennsylvania we will pick up two moderate Republicans in the suburbs in Philadelphia , and you can repeat that in Ohio and Illinois and Wisconsin . " But for this plan to work , the party still needed an actual message to take to the voters . <p> Forbes Magazine reports that during the 2024 presidential race , Kamala Harris 's campaign raised a billion dollars while Trump 's campaign raised $388 million . Harris 's substantial edge in fundraising allowed her to flood the airwaves with commercials . But she had nothing of substance to say to voters . <p> The Atlantic Magazine reports that early in her campaign , Harris gained ground by attacking Trump as a stooge of corporate interests -- and touted herself as a relentless scourge of Big Business . But then , suddenly , Harris abandoned her attacks on big business at the urging of her brother-in-law , Tony West , Uber 's chief legal officer . <p> Many Democrats , especially in swing states , opposed the Biden Administration 's unfailing support for Israel 's genocidal campaign in Gaza , which has killed more than 43,000 Palestinians and displaced nearly all of its 2.3 million residents . Harris could have gained the support of many of these voters by promising to stop arming Israel during the genocide . But her Party 's donors would n't allow her to even hint at such a change in policy . Two days before the election , while campaigning in the swing state of Michigan , Harris stated , " I will do everything in my power to end the war in Gaza . " But as Ali Abunimah of the Electronic Intifada pointed out on election night , this promise carried no weight because Harris had also promised that she would never do the one thing within her power to stop the slaughter : cut off the flow of bombs to Israel . <p> After decades of malfeasance and deception , it has become evident that the corporate Democratic Party can not serve as the lone opposition party to the corporate Republicans . The American people need a viable political party that represents the interests of ordinary working people . <p> A true workers party will not raise as much money as the corporate Democrats . But it will have an honest message with the potential to appeal to large numbers of Americans . Further , a political party that actually represents workers will press for reforms that begin to even the playing field between the haves and the have nots . <p> For example , one the most effective ways plutocrats game the political system is by flooding campaign contributions to the lawmakers who sit on the key committees that oversee their businesses . Members of Congress covet these committee chairs because they guarantee high fundraising numbers . Lawmakers who sit on the House Financial Services Committee have jurisdiction over banks and insurance companies and are targeted by those firms with campaign contributions . Lawmakers who sit on the Armed Services and Appropriations Committees provide funding for lucrative government contracts and are flooded with war industry cash . <p> These practices are corrupt and deprive American citizens of their right to be governed by representatives free from conflicts of interest . A judge who has received political contributions from a litigant must be removed from the case . Similarly , the most important functions of government , such as determining tax and how our tax revenue will be spent , should be performed by lawmakers who have not been bribed . <p> In 2017 , the Center for American Progress , a think tank aligned with the Democratic Party , proposed a " Committee Contribution Ban " for Congress . It asserted : " Congress should enact a law to make it unlawful for members of Congress to accept campaign contributions from entities that fall within the jurisdiction of their committees . " Unsurprisingly , this proposal never reached the floor of Congress , that I could find . <p> Some states have enacted similar conflict of interest rules . And Congress could certainly pass such a law , if it chose . Of course , this will never happen as long as we are ruled by two corporate parties that benefit from the corruption . But if we had a political party that represented ordinary people , countless opportunities for positive change would soon emerge . <p> Author Bio:Leonard C. Goodman is a Chicago criminal defense lawyer and an adjunct professor of law at DePaul University . <p> This article originally appeared on ScheerPost and is distributed in partnership with Economy for All , a project of the Independent Media Institute . <h> Using Scoop for work ? <p> Scoop is free for personal use , but you 'll need a licence for work use . This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop . Join today with plans starting from less than $3 per week , plus gain access to exclusive Pro features .
