<h> A world on fire : the World Bulletin year in review <p> Looking back at the events that made headlines around the globe in 2024 . <p> This is an excerpt from The World Bulletin , our weekly global current affairs newsletter exclusively for Spinoff Members . Sign up here . <p> If you 're anything like me , you 'll be hard pressed to think of a grimmer year than the one we 've just lived through . The odd happy headline aside , following world events in 2024 meant regularly steeling yourself to open your news app of choice , while trying your best to avoid becoming wholly numb to the barrage of death , destruction and threats to democracy . <p> A Palestinian woman in the Al-Maghazi refugee camp in the central Gaza Strip on January 16 , 2024 . ( Photo by AFP ) ( Photo by -/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> Across the Atlantic , Trump 's return to the White House has jolted the United States and the global order , igniting fierce debates about the future of democracy itself . Meanwhile , the climate crisis has battered the planet with unrelenting force , from catastrophic floods to searing heatwaves , painting a stark portrait of a world on the brink . <p> And yet , in the midst of this maelstrom , a glimmer of hope has emerged . In an astonishing turn of events , this month the long-oppressed Syrian people saw the fall of Bashar al-Assad 's iron-fisted regime . The toppling of Assad , once deemed unthinkable , has sparked joyous celebrations and some fragile optimism within a nation battered by a 13-year civil war . It 's a reminder that even in the darkest times , the possibility of liberation and transformation endures . <p> From attempted assassinations to heatwaves and hurricanes , here 's what the world was talking about in 2024 . <p> A bullet-riddled portrait of Syrian president Bashar al-Assad adorning Hama 's municipality building after it was defaced following the capture of the city by anti government fighters , on December 6 , 2024 . ( Photo by OMAR HAJ KADOUR/AFP via Getty Images ) <h> January <p> South Korean opposition leader Lee Jae-myung is stabbed in the neck by a 67-year-old man who wrote in his manifesto that he was " priming the pump for action and aspiration by free people to save the country " from left-wing forces . Lee survives the attack . In the US , the Federal Aviation Authority grounds all Boeing 737 Max 9 planes after an Alaska Airlines aircraft loses a door section of its fuselage mid-air and makes an emergency landing . The presidential primaries are in full swing , and already Donald Trump looks unstoppable . Florida governor Ron DeSantis , once seen as Trump 's likely successor , ends his campaign for the Republican nomination and endorses his rival . It 's not all good news for Trump , though . In New York , a jury orders him to pay writer E. Jean Carroll $83.3 million for defamation related to a 2023 sexual abuse case . <p> A portrait of late Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny at a makeshift memorial in front of the former Russian consulate in Frankfurt am Main , western Germany , on February 19 , 2024 , three days after Navalny died in a Russian Arctic prison ( Photo -/AFP via Getty Images ) <h> February <p> Alexei Navalny , the prominent Russian opposition figure and vocal critic of president Vladimir Putin , dies while serving a 19-year sentence at the Polar Wolf penal colony in Tyumen Oblast , Russia . He is 47 . At least 118 people are killed and 760 others are wounded in Gaza City after Israeli forces fire on civilians receiving humanitarian aid , in what comes to be known as the " flour massacre " . In the aftermath , Israel says it had carried out what it called " limited shootings " of people it claimed had been looting , maintaining that most victims had been killed in the crush . The death toll in Gaza stands at more than 30,000 , according to the Gazan health ministry . King Charles III announces he has been diagnosed with cancer following a medical examination . <h> March <p> Both Donald Trump and Joe Biden are confirmed as their parties ' nominees for the presidential election , having surpassed the delegate threshold in their respective primaries . Russian president Vladimir Putin is reelected to a fifth term in office with 87% of the vote -- albeit with no real opposition . At least 137 people are killed and more than 80 others are injured in a mass shooting at the Crocus City Hall music venue in Moscow , with the building subsequently catching on fire following an explosion . The terror group Islamic State claims responsibility , and four Tajik men are later charged with the attack . <p> The Francis Scott Key Bridge in Baltimore collapses after the container ship Dali strikes a bridge column , causing multiple vehicles to fall into the water below . And the British royal family is struck another blow with the Princess of Wales ' announcement that she has been diagnosed with cancer . <p> Gisele Pelicot arrives at the Avignon courthouse , to attend the trial of her former partner Dominique Pelicot accused of drugging her for nearly ten years and inviting strangers to rape her at their home . ( Photo by Christophe Simon/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> The Spinoff 's political coverage is powered by the generous support of our members . If you value what we do and believe in the importance of independent and freely accessible journalism -- tautoko mai , donate today .
