<p> The Government 's planned changes to the freedom of speech obligations of universities is little more than a front for stoking the political fires of disinformation and fear , placing teachers and students in the crosshairs . <p> " This has nothing to do with free speech , this is about polluting our public discourse for political gain , " says the Green Party 's spokesperson for Tertiary Education , Francisco Hernadez . <p> " Universities play a critical role in our society , providing a platform for informed and reasoned debate , the kind of debate that allows us to grow . <p> " Our universities should be able to decide who is given a platform on their campuses , not David Seymour . These changes risk turning our universities into hostile environments unsafe for marginalised communities . <p> " Misinformation , disinformation , and rhetoric that inflames hatred towards certain groups has no place in our society , let alone our universities . Freedom of speech is fundamental , but it is not a licence to harm . It is imperative universities are trusted to ensure the balance is struck between academic freedom and a duty of care . <p> - Sponsor Promotion - <p> " Today 's announcement has also come with a high dose of unintended irony . David Seymour is speaking out of both sides of his mouth by on the one hand claiming to support freedom of speech , but on the other looking to limit the ability universities have to take stances on issues , like the war in Gaza for example . <p> " This is an Orwellian attempt to limit discourse to the confines of the Government 's agenda . This is about stoking fear and division for political gain . <p> " Universities are already navigating significant challenges under this Government , including chronic underfunding , and stretched resources . Rather than legislative mandates which will divert attention from the essential work of education , we must support universities to help us isolate misinformation from information and absolutism from nuance , " says Francisco Hernandez.
