<p> Attacks:There are no safe places for the militarily-dominated population in Gaza , who find themselves subjected to airstrikes and other missile attackson buildings , homes and many essentialfacilities , as well as constant gunfire and invasions by Israeli forces.The Israeli Navy continues to fire missiles , targeting facilities and buildings along the entire Gaza shoreline . <p> Victims:77more people have been killedwithin the past 48 hours , bringing the total number killed in Gaza since 7 Octoberto at least45,206 . Another 174have been wounded , bringing that total to 107,512 . The daily average number of men , women and children killed in Gaza is at least 102and , thatof those injured , is nowmore than244 . <p> Since midnight on 07 October 2023 , Occupation forces have been imposing a complete closure around the whole of the West Bank , **26;644;TOOLONG even permit -- holders ) from entering both the city of Jerusalem as well as Israel , otherwise than for especially -- negotiated exceptions . Permanent military checkpoints impose severe travel restrictions within the Occupied West Bank . <p> Israeli Army attack -- 2 killed -- 5 wounded:Nablus -- during two attacks on the Balata Refugee Camp , one at 10:10 , the other at 01:50 , Occupation forces besieged a house in the city , killing two residents : Qusay Hamed Al-Sarouji and Halima Abu Al-Layl . The Israeli Army also wounded five other residents:Muhannad Tawfiq Abu Al-Aal , Bassam Muhammad Ahmad Saruji , Diaa Suleiman Ibrahim Hashash , Imran Adnan Mahmoud Abu Saada and Muhannad Nael Abu Al-Aal Qatawi . <p> Israeli Army attack:Bethlehem -- 19:10 , the Israeli Army opened fire on , and destroyed , the tyres on a cement pump , while setting up a checkpoint at the eastern entrance to the village of Marah Rabah . <p> Home invasions -- 3 taken prisoner:Nablus -- 23:55 -- 01:50 , Israeli Occupation forces stormed the villages of Rujeib and Kafr Qallil , searching a number of homes and taking prisoner three residents ( a man , his wife and their son ) , in the village of Rujeib . <p> Home invasion in refugee camp : Nablus -- 01:50 -- 05:40 , Israeli forces invaded a home in the Zaghloul neighbourhood of the Balata refugee camp , while damaging and barricading nearby streets . <p> Home invasion : Salfit -- 18:10 -- 22:55 , the Israeli Army raided Deir Istiya and invaded the home of the town 's mayor . <p> Home invasions -- rubber-coated bullets and stun grenades fired : Bethlehem -- evening , the Israeli military , firing rubber-coated bullets and stun grenades , raided the village of Husan and searched a number of homes . <p> Israeli police and settlers ' mosque violation:Nablus -- 15:30 , the Israeli Army took prisoner a man , Hamza Sameh Al-Deiri , when he reported , as ordered , for interrogation at Israeli Military Intelligence . <p> Israeli Army population -- control:Salfit -- Since the morning of 18 December until 18:00 today 19 December , Israeli troops kept closed the western entrance to the village of Marda . <p> Israeli Army population -- control:Salfit -- 21:30 , the Israeli military closed the western entrance to the village of Haris . <p> Occupation settlement development:Ramallah -- 10:20 , Israeli settlers built a new Occupation settlement road in the Wadi al-Shouk area , between the villages of Ras Karkar and Deir Ammar . <p> Occupation settler arson , insults to Islam and terror threats : Salfit -- 04:55 , Occupation settlers invaded the village of Marda and set fire to the Bar al-Walidin Mosque , causing damage . They also sprayed insults against the Islamic religion and terrorised villagers . <p> Attempted Occupation settlement development : Jericho -- 18:35 -- 01:05 , Israeli settlers attempted to establish a new settlement outpost in the al-Ma'arjat district , west of Jericho , but were eventually removed by Occupation forces . <p> Leslie Bravery is a Londoner with vivid World War Two memories of the Nazi blitz on his home town . In 1947/1948 His father explained to him what was happening to the Palestinians thus : " Any ideology or political movement that creates refugees in the process of realising its ambitions must be inhuman and should be opposed and condemned as unacceptable . " What followed confirmed this assessment of the Zionist entity a hundredfold . Now a retired flamenco guitarist , with a lifelong interest in the tragedy of what happened to the Palestinian people , he tries to publicise their plight . Because the daily injustices they suffer barely get a mention in the mainstream news media , Leslie edits/compiles a daily newsletter , In Occupied Palestine , for the Palestine Human Rights Campaign . These days , to preserve his sanity , he enjoys taking part in a drama group whenever possible !
