<h> The West Bank 's Men Of The CIA - Why Is The PA Killing Palestinians In Jenin ? <p> Following a ten-day siege , the Palestinian Authority began , on December 14 , a violent raid on the Jenin refugee camp in the northern West Bank . <p> The PA security forces used similar tactics as used by the Israeli occupation forces in their routine attacks on the area . <p> The camp , which is a mere half a square kilometer in size , hosts an ever-growing population of 24 thousand refugees , mostly the descendants of Palestinians ethnically cleansed by Zionist militias during the great catastrophe , or Nakba , of 1948 . <p> The raid began with a tight siege , followed by an attack from multiple directions that resulted in the killing of an unarmed youth , Rebhi al-Shalabi , 19 , then a 13-year-old child , Muhammad al-Amer . <p> The PA forces also killed Yazid Ja'ayseh , the commander of the Jenin Brigades , who had evaded Israeli assassination attempts for his leadership role in unifying all Palestinian Resistance fighters under the umbrella of a single group . <p> Advertisement - scroll to continue reading <p> Expectedly , Israel is largely pleased with the PA 's action against the Palestinian Resistance , though it expects more . " The Palestinian Authority has been acting resolutely against the Hamas and Islamic Jihad fighters over the past several weeks , army and Shin Bet sources said , but the Israeli officials expressed the hope that their effectiveness could be enhanced , " Haaretz reported . <p> Indeed , Israel had attempted to subdue Jenin 80 times in the last year alone , killing more than 220 people , Al Jazeera reported , citing Palestinian Ministry of Health sources . <p> By attacking Jenin , the PA is helping the Israeli army in more than one way : it is killing and detaining anti-Israeli occupation Resistance fighters , consuming the energy and resources of the Resistance , allowing Israel to spare thousands of soldiers so that they may carry on with the genocide in Gaza , and more . <p> For many , especially supporters of Palestine around the world , the PA 's action is confusing , to say the least . Those surprised by the anti-Resistance policies of Mahmoud Abbas and his Authority , however , are driven by the erroneous assumption that the PA is a legitimate representative of the Palestinian people , and that it behaves in ways consistent with the collective aspirations of all Palestinians . <p> Nothing could be further from the truth . For many years , the PA has ceased playing any role that deviates from the interests of a small clique of pro-US and pro-Israeli wealthy elite who have enriched themselves , while millions of Palestinians continue to suffer an Israeli genocide in Gaza , and a violent system of apartheid and military occupation in the West Bank and East Jerusalem . <p> The most telling and recent example is that , a short distance away from Jenin , illegal and violent Israeli Jewish settlers have burned the Bir Al-Walidin Mosque in the town of Murda , near Salfit - less than 70 kilometers from Jenin . Neither in this case , nor in any of the hundreds of settlers ' pogroms carried out against Palestinians in the West Bank in the last year - or before - did the PA security carry out any action to confront the armed Jewish militias , nor , of course , the occupation army . <p> But how did the PA turn from a supposed national project - at least in theory - to another branch of the Israeli occupation ? <p> It could be argued that the PA was structured since its establishment in 1994 as a body whose existence catered to benefit the Israeli occupation . There is much evidence that substantiates this claim , including the arrests , torture and killing of dissenting Palestinians soon after the creation of the PA . <p> The CIA became directly involved in supporting the PA from the very start , expanding its role as early as 1996 following a series of Palestinian retaliatory attacks on Israeli targets in major cities . It was then that CIA director George Tenet became an important player in shaping the policies of the PA security forces , preparing it for massive crackdowns on Palestinian Resistance groups . <p> This involvement was a direct condition for US financial support under the Bill Clinton Administration - the kind of support that sowed the seeds of the Fatah-Hamas conflict , which reached its zenith in the summer of 2007 . <p> The involvement of the US - and other armed forces of US client regimes in the region - became even more apparent under the leadership of US Lt. Gen. Keith Dayton , who helped train , prepare and equip the Palestinian Authority Security Forces ( NSF ) , producing several battalions of young recruits ( between 20 and 22 years old ) to fight fellow Palestinians in the name of restoring law and order . <p> That supposed restoration of the law began in earnest as early as 2005 and continues until this day . Interestingly , this is the same language that the PA is currently using to justify its war on the Jenin refugee camp . <p> A spokesman for the PA security forces , Anwar Rajab recently told Al Jazeera that the objective of the raid on Jenin is to " pursue criminals " and lawbreakers , and to " prevent the camp from becoming a battleground like Gaza . " <p> Equating Resistance fighters with criminals and linking that supposed criminality to the Gaza Resistance is the typical PA discourse on resistance , a discourse that took the US and Israel years to craft and perfect - making the PA arguably the greatest achievement of Israel and the US in recent decades . <p> This behavior and language can be traced to a famous statement by General Dayton himself , who in a 2009 speech celebrated the US 's greatest creation in Palestine : <p> " And what we have created - and I say this in humility - what we have created are new men ... upon the return of these new men of Palestine , they have shown motivation , discipline and professionalism , and they have made such a difference . " <p> Indeed , the ' new men of Palestine ' are making all the difference required by the US and Israel : they are fighting the very Palestinian Resistance that is defending Jenin against the Israeli onslaught , Nablus against the pogroms of armed settlers and Gaza against genocide . <p> None of these ' new men ' - whose numbers are counted in the tens of thousands - have lifted a finger to help their brethren as they continue to starve to death in the Gaza Strip , tortured and raped en masse , burned alive in Jabaliya and Khan Yunis , and yet continue to fight and die in their thousands - alone . <p> To say that the PA has betrayed Palestinians , however , is an inaccurate statement . The PA was never set up , financed and armed by the US and Israel as a force of liberation , but as an obstacle to Palestinian freedom . We are witnessing the final proof of this claim . It is taking place in Jenin now ; in fact , throughout the West Bank . <p> Of course , the PA will not be able to crush the Palestinian Resistance , which the supposedly mighty Israeli army has failed to subdue over the course of years . But the question remains : how long will the PA be allowed to serve the role of the enforcers of the Israeli occupation and the protector of settlers , while still promoting itself as the guardian of Palestinian rights , freedom and statehood ? <p> - Dr. Ramzy Baroud is a journalist , author and the Editor of The Palestine Chronicle . He is the author of six books . His latest book , co-edited with Ilan Papp ? , is ' Our Vision for Liberation : Engaged Palestinian Leaders and Intellectuals Speak Out ' . His other books include ' My Father was a Freedom Fighter ' and ' The Last Earth ' . Baroud is a Non-resident Senior Research Fellow at the Center for Islam and Global Affairs ( CIGA ) . His website is www.ramzybaroud.net <h> Using Scoop for work ? <p> Scoop is free for personal use , but you 'll need a licence for work use . This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop . Join today with plans starting from less than $3 per week , plus gain access to exclusive Pro features .
