<p> Attacks:There are no safe places for the militarily-dominated population in Gaza , who find themselves subjected to airstrikes and other missile attackson buildings , homes and many essentialfacilities , as well as constant gunfire and invasions by Israeli forces.The Israeli Navy continues to fire missiles , targeting facilities and buildings along the entire Gaza shoreline . <p> Victims:32more people have been killedwithin the past 48 hours , bringing the total number killed in Gaza since 7 Octoberto at least45,259 . Another 54have been wounded , bringing that total to 107,627 . The daily average number of men , women and children killed in Gaza is at least 102and , thatof those injured , is nowmore than244 . <p> The Pope 's statement followed a report from Gaza 's Civil Defence rescue agency that an Israeli airstrike in the northern part of the territory on Friday killed ten members of a family , including seven children . " Yesterday they did not allow the Patriarch ( of Jerusalem ) into Gaza as promised . Yesterday children were bombed . This is cruelty , this is not war , " he told members of the Holy See 's government , adding , " I want to say it because it touches my heart . " Since the escalation of the Israeli war on Gaza on 7 October 2023 , the Pope has consistently called for " peace " . In recent weeks , however , he has adopted a firmer stance against the Israeli offensive . At the end of November , the Pope stated that " the invader 's arrogance . . . prevails over dialogue " in " Palestine , " The Holy See , which recognised the State of Palestine in 2013 , maintains diplomatic relations with it and continues to advocate for a two-state solution . <p> The director of Kamal Adwan Hospital , encircled by Israeli drones and tanks , has pleaded with the international community to intervene to protect the northern Gaza hospital as Israel ordered patients as well as hospital staff to evacuate . The hospital remains one of the few still operational in the area , where only a handful of doctors remain to treat patients amid a severe shortage or complete depletion of essential medical supplies . " We are now facing direct bombing of the Intensive Care Unit again , " Dr Hussam Abu Safia said in a video statement on Saturday night , calling on the international community to protect the hospital and its 66 remaining patients , as well as medical staff . " The nursery , maternity , and all departments of the hospital are being targeted by the occupation forces with all types of weapons , including sniper fire , tank shells , and quadcopters , " he added . <p> " For more than an hour now , shells are raining down on us from every corner , mile and direction . " Al Jazeera 's Hani Mahmoud , reporting from nearby Deir el-Balah , said : " What we are seeing now is a deliberate attack on the health facility . " " The Israeli military has ordered evacuations from the hospital , but they have also created an intimidating environment that makes people feel it 's unsafe to leave . " The relentless Israeli attacks on medical facilities , including Kamal Adwan , drew a response from World Health Organization ( WHO ) Chief , Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus , who called it " deeply worrisome " . He urged for an " immediate ceasefire " in the area that has been under siege for more than 70 days . <p> Electricity was completely cut off at Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza on Sunday after Israeli drone strikes onits power generators and fuel tanks , Anadolu reports . According to witnesses , Israeli drones struck power generators and fuel tanks at the hospital in the town of Beit Lahia , leaving it entirely without power . Marwan Al-Hams , the Director of Field Hospitals in Gaza 's Health Ministry , described the situation at the hospital as " dire " , saying that communication with medical staff has been cut off . On Saturday , the hospital 's director , Hussam Abu Safiya , said that the medical facility was facing " unprecedented " Israeli shelling , causing extensive damage . <p> Since midnight on 07 October 2023 , Occupation forces have been imposing a complete closure around the whole of the West Bank , **26;1440;TOOLONG even permit -- holders ) from entering both the city of Jerusalem as well as Israel , otherwise than for especially -- negotiated exceptions . Permanent military checkpoints impose severe travel restrictions within the Occupied West Bank . <p> Israeli settlers terrorism -- population -- control and agricultural sabotage:Ramallah -- 10:15-12:00 , Israeli settlers , opening indiscriminate fire , attacked a house in Burqa village and terrorised a number of Palestinian farmers in the south of the village to force them to leave the area . <p> Israeli settlers'terror attack : Jericho -- 14:30 -- 16:20 , Israeli Occupation settlers , opening random fire , stormed the Sateeh area as well as the village of Ein al-Dyouk al-Tahta . One of the settlers invaded an agricultural greenhouse in the village of al-Nu'ayma and terrorised a man there:Hussein Musa Malihat . <p> Child killed : Bethlehem -- seven-year -- oldMuhammad Yasser Ali Rashaida , accompanying his father as he was herding sheep in the Wadi al-Karas , was killedwhen an object left behind on pastoral land by the Israeli Armyexploded . <p> Home invasion and forced personal demolition:Jerusalem -- the Israeli Occupation forced a resident , Hani Shakirat , to destroy his home in the Jabal al-Mukabir neighbourhood -- or otherwise be forced to pay an extortionate sum to the Israeli Occupation demolition squads , who would be sent in to do it . <p> Home invasion and forced personal demolition:Jerusalem -- the Israeli Occupation forced a resident , Mahmoud Hashem Aqil , to destroy his home in the Silwan neighbourhood -- or otherwise be forced to pay an extortionate sum to the Israeli Occupation demolition squads , who would be sent in to do it . <p> Home invasions:Salfit -- 01:00 -- 03:45 , the Israeli Army raided Haris village and searched a number of houses . <p> Home invasions and vandalism by settlers:Hebron -- 10:10 , Occupation settlers invaded homes in the village of Susiya , damaging their contents . <p> Leslie Bravery is a Londoner with vivid World War Two memories of the Nazi blitz on his home town . In 1947/1948 His father explained to him what was happening to the Palestinians thus : " Any ideology or political movement that creates refugees in the process of realising its ambitions must be inhuman and should be opposed and condemned as unacceptable . " What followed confirmed this assessment of the Zionist entity a hundredfold . Now a retired flamenco guitarist , with a lifelong interest in the tragedy of what happened to the Palestinian people , he tries to publicise their plight . Because the daily injustices they suffer barely get a mention in the mainstream news media , Leslie edits/compiles a daily newsletter , In Occupied Palestine , for the Palestine Human Rights Campaign . These days , to preserve his sanity , he enjoys taking part in a drama group whenever possible !
