<h> Mohamed El-Erian offers his predictions for the new year while acknowledging that the range of possible outcomes is widening <p> Investing / opinion <p> Mohamed El-Erian offers his predictions for the new year while acknowledging that the range of possible outcomes is widening <p> 27th Dec 24 , 12:05pmbyMohamed El-Erian <p> By Mohamed El-Erian* <p> It is something of a tradition every December to take stock of the year that is ending and consider what might lie ahead . This is true on a personal level : in my family , we tend to do this around the dinner table . But it is also true more broadly , with the time of year inviting an examination of the intersection of economics , national politics , and global geopolitics . <p> You would be forgiven if , as a starting point , you expected these three areas to be in alignment . After all , they are deeply interconnected , which suggests self-reinforcing dynamics . But 2024 brought some unusual dispersion in this relationship that actually widened , rather than narrowed , over the course of the year . <p> Begin with geopolitics . In 2024 , Russia secured a greater advantage in the Ukraine war than the consensus forecasts of a year ago anticipated . Similarly , the human suffering and physical destruction resulting from the Israel-Hamas war in Gaza exceeded most observers ' already-grim expectations , and spread to other countries , such as Lebanon . The apparent impunity of the strong , together with the absence of effective means of preventing dire humanitarian crises , has deepened the sense for many that the global order is fundamentally imbalanced , and lacks any enforceable guardrails . <p> As for domestic politics , upheaval has been the order of the day in many countries . Governments have collapsed in both France and Germany -- Europe 's largest economies -- leaving the European Union without political leadership . And following Donald Trump 's victory in last month 's presidential election , the United States is preparing for a political transition that is likely to bring a significant increase in the political influence of a new " counter-elite . " <p> Meanwhile , an " axis of convenience " -- comprising China , Iran , North Korea , and Russia -- is seeking to challenge the Western-dominated international order . Other recent developments -- from the now-impeached South Korean president 's abrupt declaration of martial law ( which was quickly reversed ) to the collapse of Bashar al-Assad 's regime in Syria -- have reinforced the impression that we are living at a time of exceptional geopolitical and political volatility . <p> The last year also brought some worrisome macroeconomic developments . Europe 's malaise has deepened , as countries grapple with low growth and large budget deficits . And China has failed to respond credibly to the clear and present danger of " Japanification , " with unfavourable demographics , a debt overhang , and a prolonged property-market downturn undermining growth , economic efficiency , and consumer confidence . <p> And yet , stock markets have remained relatively stable and delivered high returns , including almost 60 record-high closes for the S&amp;P index . The US economy 's exceptional performance is a major reason why . Far from weakening , as most economists expected , the US pulled even further ahead . Given the amount of foreign capital the US is attracting , and the scale of its investment in the future drivers of productivity , competitiveness , and growth , it is likely to continue outperforming other major economies in 2025 . <p> One consequence of this success is that the US Federal Reserve did not deliver the soothing 1.75-2-percentage-point interest-rate cuts that markets were pricing in a year ago . This trend , too , is set to continue : at December 's policy meeting , the Fed signaled fewer cuts in 2025 , and a higher terminal ( long-run ) rate . <p> But political and geopolitical upheaval -- and the limited prospects for significant improvements -- does pose a risk to the endurance of US economic exceptionalism . Even if the US continues outperforming its peers , as expected , the range of possible outcomes , in terms of both growth and inflation , has widened . In fact , global economic and policy outcomes as a whole are now subject to a larger possibility set , both because the downside risks have grown and because upside innovations -- such as in artificial intelligence , life sciences , food security , health care , and defense -- could transform sectors and accelerate productivity gains . <p> Absent a major policy reset , my baseline scenario for the US includes a somewhat lower immediate growth rate , even as the economy outperforms its peers , and sticky inflation . This will present the Fed with a choice : accept above-target inflation or attempt to bring it down and risk tipping the economy into recession . <p> Globally , economic fragmentation will continue , pushing some countries to diversify their reserves further away from the US dollar and explore alternatives to Western payment systems . Yields on US ten-year government bonds -- a global benchmark -- will edge higher , trading mostly in the 4.75-5% range . As for financial markets , they might find it more challenging to maintain their status as the " good house " in a challenging geo-economic neighbourhood . <p> This is how things appear now . But , beyond recognising the wider dispersion of possible economic outcomes in 2025 , it will be crucial regularly to test whichever baseline one embraces against actual developments . <p> Remember we welcome robust , respectful and insightful debate . We do n't welcome abusive or defamatory comments and will de-register those repeatedly making such comments . Our current comment policy is here . <h> 3 Comments <p> I really thought we 'd see a US market correction last year based on valuations , CAPE , Buffet indicator etc . We 've had such an amazing run over the last 15 years and now most analysts seem to be saying they think this thing has the legs to go further . <p> USA companies will boom for the next decade , the businesses that offshored to Asia in search of cheap labour will begin on shoring , robotics replaces workers . This will be deflationary too . We may have reached peak iPhone however consumers will want robots and whoever leads the advancement in that tech will be the next Apple .
