<p> At least 18.2 million children were born into hunger in 2024 , or about 35 children a minute , with conflict and climate crises combining to drive at least 800,000 more children into hunger over the year , according to a Save the Children analysis . <p> Analysis of U.N . Food and Agriculture Organization ( FAO ) data showed the number of children born into hunger rose by around 5% in 2024 compared to a year earlier and 19% more than the 15.3 million recorded in 2019 when progress on tackling childhood hunger began to stall . 1 <p> Conflict , displacement , extreme weather events , and the increasing relative cost of food have all contributed towards a decline in children 's nutrition globally . <p> Children born into hunger this year include babies born in countries facing a risk of famine or catastrophic conditions of acute food insecurity including South Sudan , Haiti , Mali and Sudan , where famine-levels of malnutrition have spread across half of the country 's 18 states . 2 <p> Advertisement - scroll to continue reading <p> In addition , there was a warning in early November of a strong likelihood that famine was imminent or already underway in the northern Gaza Strip and 345,000 people across Gaza could face catastrophic hunger in the coming months. 3 The occupied Palestinian territory is not included in the annual FAO data on undernourishment , 4 but the warning came from the leading global authority on hunger , the Integrated Food Security Phase Classification . <h> Hannah Stephenson , Global Head of Hunger and Nutrition at Save the Children , said : <p> " Over 18 million newborns this year - 35 children a minute - were born into a world where hunger is their reality from their first moments of life . Hunger knows no boundaries . It erodes childhoods , drains children 's energy and risks robbing them of their futures . Children should be free to play or expand their minds in class . No child should be worrying about when their next meal will be . <p> " We need immediate funding and safe access for humanitarian lifesaving services for children and families in desperate need of food , nutrition , healthcare , safe water , sanitation and hygiene , social protection and livelihoods support . We have the tools to significantly reduce the number of malnourished children right now , like we have in the past . <p> " However , if we do not tackle the root causes of hunger and malnutrition , we will continue to see the reversal of progress made for children . " <p> Children are always the most vulnerable in food crises and without enough to eat and the right nutritional balance , children are at high risk of becoming acutely malnourished . Malnutrition can cause stunting , impede mental and physical development , increase the risk of contracting deadly diseases , and ultimately cause death . <p> In countries where at least 20% of the population is facing hunger , the Democratic Repubilc of Congo ( DRC ) was expected to have the highest number of babies born undernourished this year at around 1.6 million with conflict remaining a key driver of hunger in the DRC and globally . <p> Climate shocks such as floods and droughts meanwhile increasingly threaten children 's access to food . More than 1.4 million babies were born into hunger in Pakistan , one of the world 's most climate vulnerable countries. 5 Pakistan saw the second highest number of babies born into hunger among countries with over 20% undernourishment . <p> Uzma- , 28 , lives in the Baluchistan province of Pakistan and is struggling to feed her five children , including 17-month-old Inaaya- , who is malnourished , and twin girls who were born in November . Her husband runs a small shop but does not earn enough to support the family . Save the Children supports Uzma's- family with nutrition and with information on how to improve their hygiene practices . <p> " With my husband 's limited income and the need to focus on Inaaya's- recovery from malnutrition , it is very hard to ensure that all our children have enough to eat . Sometimes , our older boys do n't get as much food as they need or the most nutritious meals . It worries me that they might not be eating enough to grow strong and healthy . <p> " Our newborn twin daughters also have special needs , and meeting those adds to the pressure . The overall food situation for our family is very challenging , and it feels like an ongoing struggle to make sure all five children have enough to eat . As a mother , it hurts deeply to see my children go without food . " <p> Despite its relatively small population , Madagascar also had one of the highest numbers of babies born into hunger in 2024 . <p> Aina- , aged 6 months , was one of around 400,000 babies born into hunger in the island nation . Her mother , Genie- , faced difficulties caring for and feeding her daughter because of the high cost of food and lack of money . She fed Aina- , who is exclusively breastfed , only twice a day , before and after returning from work in the field . <p> " My habits had had an impact on her diet and Aina's- weight . She got progressively thinner and often felt hot and irritable , " said Genie- . <p> Save the Children taught Genie- how to feed her daughter healthily using lower-priced , locally available food as well as the importance of frequent breastfeeding . <p> Save the Children is calling on world leaders to address the root causes of acute food and nutrition insecurity including working harder to reduce conflicts , tackling the climate crisis and global inequality , and by building more resilient health , nutrition and social protection systems . <p> The child rights organisation is also calling for greater collaboration , dialogue and investment across sectors to bolster response planning and implementation , as well as our abilities to act early and prevent predictable shocks from turning into crises . <p> Notes <p> 1 For the analysis , Save the Children used data from the UN Population Prospects for 2024 and the latest country data on hunger from the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations ( FAO ) , measured by undernourishment . The most recent published FAO country data used here is up until 2021-2023 as country data up to 2022-2024 has not yet been made publicly available . Data on prevalence of undernourishment is only available for the total population . In this analysis we estimate that the share of children affected by hunger is equivalent to the average of the total population , applying undernourishment rates to the number of births in each country . This likely underestimates the true effect as we would expect that poorer communities - in most countries home to proportionally more children - are more likely to be affected by hunger . According to the analysis , more than 21.5 million children were born into hunger in 2001 . In 2018 , the number dropped to about 14.5 million but then jumped up to 15.3 million in 2019 . In 2024 , there were an estimated 18.2 million undernourished births at a minimum . <h> Using Scoop for work ? <p> Scoop is free for personal use , but you 'll need a licence for work use . This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop . Join today with plans starting from less than $3 per week , plus gain access to exclusive Pro features .
