<h> Share this article <p> After the brutal October 7 , 2023 , attack by Hamas , the Israel Defence Forces deluged Gaza with bombs , drawing on a database painstakingly compiled through the years that detailed home addresses , tunnels , and other infrastructure critical to the militant group . <p> But then the target bank ran low . To maintain the war 's breakneck pace , the IDF turned to an elaborate artificial intelligence tool called Habsora - or " the Gospel " - which could quickly generate hundreds of additional targets . <p> The use of AI to rapidly refill the IDF 's target bank allowed the military to continue its campaign uninterrupted , according to two people familiar with the operation . <p> It is an example of how the decade-long effort to place advanced AI tools at the centre of the IDF 's intelligence operations has contributed to the violence of Israel 's 14-month war in Gaza . <p> The IDF has broadcast the existence of these programmes , which constitute what some experts consider the most advanced military AI initiative ever to be deployed . <p> But a Washington Post investigation reveals previously unreported details of the inner workings of the machine-learning programme , and the secretive , decade-long history of its development . <p> The investigation also reveals a fierce debate within the highest echelons of the military , starting years before October 7 , about the quality of intelligence gathered by AI , whetherthe technologies ' recommendations garnered sufficient scrutiny , and if the focus on AI weakened the IDF 's intelligence capabilities . <p> Some internal critics argue that AI has been a behind-the-scenes force accelerating the death toll in Gaza , which has claimed 45,000 lives , more than half of whom were women and children , according to the Gaza health officials . <p> The Gaza Health Ministry does not differentiate between civilians and combatants.In a statement , the IDF said the ministry is controlled by Hamas and its data " is replete with inconsistencies and false determinations " . <p> People familiar with the IDF 's practices , including soldiers who have served in the war , say Israel 's military has significantly expanded the number of acceptable civilian casualties from historic norms . <p> Some argue this shift is enabled by automation , which has made it easier to speedily generate large quantities of targets , including of low-level militants who participated in the October 7 attacks . <p> This report draws on interviews with more than a dozen people familiar with the systems , many of whom spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss the details of top-secret national security topics , as well as documents obtained by the Post . <p> " What 's happening in Gaza is a forerunner of a broader shift in how war is being fought , " said Steven Feldstein , senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment , who researches the use of AI in war . <p> He noted that the IDF appeared to have lowered its threshold for the acceptable civilian casualty rate during the Gaza war . <p> " Combine that with the acceleration these systems offer - as well as the questions of accuracy - and the end result is a higher death count than was previously imagined in war . " <p> The IDF said claims that its use of AI endangers lives are " off the mark " . <p> " The more ability you have to compile pieces of information effectively , the more accurate the process is , " the IDF said in a statement to the Post . " If anything , these tools have minimised collateral damage and raised the accuracy of the human-led process . " <p> The IDF requiresan officer to sign off on any recommendations from its " big data processing " systems , according to an intelligence official . The Gospel and other AI tools do not make decisions autonomously , the person added . <p> The overhaul of the IDF 's vaunted signals intelligence division , known as Unit 8200 , has intensified since 2020 under current leader Yossi Sariel , transforming the division 's work and intelligence-gathering practices . <p> Sariel championed development of the Gospel , a machine-learning software built atop hundreds of predictive algorithms , which allows soldiers to briskly query a vast trove of data known within the military as " the pool " . <p> Reviewing reams of data from intercepted communications , satellite footage , and social networks , the algorithms spit out the co-ordinates of tunnels , rockets , and other military targets . Recommendations that survive vetting by an intelligence analyst are placed in the target bank by a senior officer . <p> Using the software 's image recognition , soldiers could unearth subtle patterns , including minuscule changes in years of satellite footage of Gaza suggesting that Hamas had buried a rocket launcher or dug a new tunnel on agricultural land , compressing aweek 's worth of work into 30 minutes , a former military leader who worked on the systems said . <p> Another machine-learningtool , called Lavender , uses a percentage score to predict how likely a Palestinian is to be a member of a militant group , allowing the IDF to quickly generate a large volume of potential human targets . <p> Other algorithmic programs have names like Alchemist , Depth of Wisdom , Hunter and Flow , the latter of which allows soldiers to query various datasets and is previously unreported . <p> Several of the division 's officers have long held concerns that the machine- learning technology , which speeds decision-making , concealed underlying flaws . <p> Reports delivered to senior leadership did not indicate how intelligence was derived - whether from human analysts or AI systems - making it difficult for officials to evaluate a finding , according to one former senior military official . <p> An internal audit found some AI systems for processing the Arabic language had inaccuracies , failing to understand key slang words and phrases , according tothe two former senior military leaders . <p> The IDF 's machine-learning technology also predicts how many civilians might be affected by attacks , helping Israel comply with a key tenet of international law . <p> Inthe Gaza war , estimates of how many civilians might be harmed in a bombing raid are derived through data-mining software , using image recognition tools to analyse drone footage alongside smartphones pinging cell towers to tally the number of civilians in an area , two of the people said . <p> In 2014 , the IDF 's acceptable civilian casualty ratio was one civilian for a high-level terrorist , said Tal Mimran , a former legal adviser to the IDF . <p> In the Gaza war , the number has grown to about 15 civilians for one low-level Hamas member and " exponentially higher " for mid- and high-level members , according to the Israeli human rights organisation Breaking the Silence , citing numerous testimonies from IDF soldiers . The New York Times reported the number as 20 earlier this week . <p> The IDF says its assessments of collateral damage adhere to the Law of Armed Conflict , which mandates that nations differentiate between civilians and combatants and take precautions to protect lives . <p> Some proponents of Israel 's use of the technology argue that aggressively deploying innovations such as AI is essential for the survival of a small country facing determined and powerful enemies . <p> " Technological superiority is what keeps Israel safe , " said Blaise Misztal , vice-president for policy at the Jewish Institute for National Security of America , who was briefed by the IDF 's intelligence division on its AI capabilities in 2021 . <p> " The faster Israel is able to identify enemy capabilities and take them off the battlefield , the shorter a war is going to be , and it will have fewer casualties . " <p> In addition to concerns over the quality of AI-derived intelligence , the use of the technology has triggered a divisive paradigm shift within the IDF . <p> It has usurped an intelligence culturethat has historically prized individual reasoning for one that prioritised technological prowess , according to three of the people . Low-level analysts had previously been empowered to bypass their immediate bosses and issue direct warnings to senior commanders . <p> Under the command of Sariel and other intelligence leaders , 8200 has restructured to emphasise engineers , cutting Arabic language specialists , removing several leaders considered resistant to AI , and disbanding some groups not focused on data-mining technology , according to three of the people . <p> By October 7,60% of the unit 's employees were working in engineering and tech roles , twice as many as a decade earlier , according to one of the people . <p> The IDF 's intelligence practices are under scrutiny . <p> Genocide charges against Israel brought to The Hague by South Africa question whether crucial decisions about bombing targets in Gaza were made by software , an investigation that could hasten a global debate about the role of AI technology in warfare . <p> And in Israel , Sarielsaid in September that he plans to step down from the IDF under increased questioning of the intelligence failures that led to the October 7 attack . <p> Two former senior commanders said they believe the intense focus on AI was a significant reason why Israel was caught off-guard that day . <p> The department overemphasised technological findings and made it difficult for analysts to raise warnings to senior commanders . <p> " This was an AI factory , " said one former military leader . " The man was replaced by the machine . " <h> The ' human bottleneck ' <p> Sariel , through the IDF , declined requests for comment . He did not respond to requests for comment sent to his personal email . <p> In 2019 , two yearsbefore taking over as intelligence commander , Sariel spent asabbatical year at the United States National Defence University , a Pentagon-funded institution in Washington that trains national security leaders from all over the world . <p> A professor at NDU , who spoke to the Post on the condition of anonymity , said he and Sariel shared a radical vision of AI in the battlefield , arguing that Israel should blaze ahead of more cautious US allies . <p> " Yossi was in this world of , ' this thing is moving fast , faster than anybody realises , and we better get everybody on board ' , " the professor said . <p> A book Sariel wrote during the sabbatical and published under a pen name lays out a vision for infusing national security establishments with automation . <p> In " The Human-Machine Team : How to Create Synergy Between Human and Artificial Intelligence , " Sariel describes how the actions of lone-wolf terrorists could be predicted in advance by unleashing algorithms to analyse phone locations , social media posts , drone footage , and intercepted private communications . <p> In Sariel 's expansive vision , AI would touch all aspects of defence , in both peacetime and war . By using AI surveillance technologies , Israel 's borders would become " smart borders " . <p> By collecting digital trails , armies could build advanced " target banks " with names , locations and behaviour patterns of thousands of suspects . These technologies could replace 80% of intelligence analysts that specialise in foreign languages in just five years , he concluded . <p> Sariel returned to Israel brimming with plans to bring his ideas to fruition . In the summer of 2020 , he was appointed by Aviv Kohavi , then the Army 's chief of staff and a huge proponent of AI tools , to take over the 8200 unit , the IDF 's largest and most prestigious division . <p> Former commanders huddled to share their worries about the " religious attitude toward AI " developing in the unit under Sariel 's tenure , two people said . <p> Kohavi declined to comment . <p> When Sariel officially became commander , in February 2021 , 8200 had been experimenting with data science for more than seven years , five former military leaders said , contending with an explosion of digital communications that provided a gold mine for national security agencies . <p> The elite unit had developed a reputation for collecting an array of DMs , private messages , emails , call logs , and other online breadcrumbs using in-house cyber technologies considered the best in the world . <p> At the time , intelligence units typically did n't share information with soldiers on the battlefield , said Ben Caspit , an Israeli columnist for Al-Monitor , who is writing a book about the 8200 unit . <p> To prevent such silos , the Mossad , Israel 's spy agency , and 8200 developed a database - " the pool " - to house all military intelligence in one repository . <p> As a " big data " boom got under way in Silicon Valley , Israeli engineers had begun to experiment with off-the-shelf data mining tools that could translate and analyse Arabic and Farsi . The unit 's leaders debated whether to contract experts , such as the Silicon Valley data-mining firm Palantir , or build their own software . <p> Thelatter approach won out . But the technologies , while widely recognised as promising , had limitations . <p> Sometimes the sheer volume of intercepts overwhelmed8200 's analysts . For example , Hamas operatives often used the word " batikh , " or watermelon , as code for a bomb , one of the people familiar with the efforts said . <p> But the system was n't smart enough to understand the difference between a conversation about an actual watermelon and a coded conversation among terrorists . <p> " If you pick up a thousand conversations a day , do I really want to hear about every watermelon in Gaza ? " the person said . <p> As he moved into senior leadership , Sariel sped upthe data-mining efforts . He championed a broad reorganisation that divided intelligence efforts into what the commanders referred to as " AI factories " located in a newly created " targets centre Al-Monitor " at the Nevatim Airbase in the south of Israel . <p> Each division designed hundreds of purpose-built algorithms and machine- learning technologies , sharing software predictions across the intelligence chain of command . <p> Residents of the southern Lebanese village of Derdghaya , stand among the rubble of a Melkite Greek Catholic church that was hit by an Israeli air strike . Photo / Getty Images <p> The military invested in new cloud technologiesthat processed algorithms quickly , in preparation for an anticipated conflict with Hezbollah on Israel 's northern border . <p> An app called Hunter allowed soldiers on the battlefield to directly access information . It built another mobile app called Z-Tube where IDF soldiers in battle could review live video of areas that they were about to enter , and another called Map It , which provided real-time estimates of potential civilian casualties in a specific areathat had been evacuated . <p> The 8200 had long maintained a target bank : a list of precise GPS co-ordinates of Hamas and Hezbollah infrastructure and humantargets , geolocated to a specific tunnel or apartment building floor . <p> Maintaining the target bank was **25;521;TOOLONG were required to confirm their findingswith at least two independent sources and to refresh the information continuously , according to three peoplefamiliar with the programme . <p> Before officially entering the bank , a proposed target had to be " validated " by a senior officer and a military lawyer to ensure it would comply with international law , five people said . <p> Intelligence leaders , led by Sariel , believed machine-learning could dramatically speed up that painstaking process , said two of the people . <p> " It took the IDI intelligence directorate years to achieve a bank of those kinds of targets , but what happens if you trained AI to imitate the work of the targeting officer ? " said another former military official familiar with the new target formation process . <p> The effort involved collecting billions of signals from sensors placed on drones , F-35 aircraft , and subterranean seismic monitors , as well as from intercepted communications . <p> These were paired with databases that housed phone numbers , social media profiles , known contacts , chat groups and internal documents . The information was fed into software that could read patterns and make predictions about who and what could be targeted . <p> An image recognition algorithm was trained to search thousands of satellite photographs to identify a specific type of fabric that Hamas militants used to conceal digging for a buried rocket . The tools compressed a week of work into 30 minutes , the former military officer said . <p> " They really did believe with all the sensors they had all around and above Gaza , I wo n't say total informational awareness , but that they had a very good picture of what was happening inside , " said Misztal , who leads an organisation focused on security co-operation between the US and Israel . He noted that the military emphasised its rigorous systems for checking targeting recommendations during his 2021 briefing . <p> Lavender , an algorithmic program developed in 2020 , pored over data to produce lists of potential Hamas and Islamic Jihad militants , giving each person a score estimating their likelihood to be a member , three people familiar with the systems told the Post . <p> Factors that could raise a person 's score included being in a WhatsApp group with a known militant , switching addresses and phone numbers frequently or being named in Hamas files , the people said . <p> Lavender 's existence and details about its scoring system were first reported by +972 , an Israeli-Palestinian news site . <p> Estimates from the various algorithms fed into the umbrella system , Gospel , which could be queried by intelligence analysts . <p> Some of the department 's leaders were worried about the accuracy of these algorithms . One audit of a language-processing technology revealed that the software prediction was not as accurate as a human officer would have been , according to two of the people . <p> Others were worried that predictions from the software were being given too much weight . <p> Typically , the research division would produce daily intelligence reports for senior commanders to review potential targets . But though an individual analyst could double-click to see the information that led to the prediction , senior commanders were not informed whether a recommendation was derived through an algorithm or through human sourcing . <p> " Everything was treated as the same , " another former senior official said . " I 'm not even sure the person preparing the report knew the difference between the pieces of information . " <p> Two former senior military leaders told the Post the emphasis on technology eroded 8200 's " culture of warning " , where even low-level analysts could easily brief top commanders about concerns . <p> This shift , they added , is a significant reason Israel was surprised by the October 7 attack : an experienced female analyst who had surfaced Hamas ' battlefield plans for breaking into Israel 's borders was unable to get a meeting with the unit 's top commanders in time . <p> " The bottom line is , you ca n't replace the guy who screams , ' Listen , this is dangerous ' , " with all the advanced AI technologies in the world , " said Caspit , the Israeli journalist who has interviewed every living 8200 commander for his book . " This was the hubris that infected the entire unit . " <p> In 2023 , the Army 's just-retired chief of staff , Kohavi , bragged to a media outlet that the new AI systems gave the IDF a sophisticated real-time intelligence apparatus " akin to the movie The Matrix " . <p> Before the Gospel , analysts could produce 50 new targets in Gaza per year to put into the target bank . " Once the machine was activated , " he said , it generated 100 targets per day . <p> In his book , Sariel argued that AI would be especially useful in wartime , when it could speed up target formation and " blast open " the " human bottleneck " that slowed everything down . <p> In June 2021 , Israel had its first chance to unleash the new algorithm-powered target bank . As an 11-day war broke out between Israel and Hamas , the IDF used data science to hit 450 targets , including a Hamas squad missile commander and one of the group 's anti-tank missile units , according to a talk an 8200 commander gave at Tel Aviv University . <p> Senior leaders seized the moment as a promotional opportunity to discuss the AI revolution taking place at Nevatim , and inside 8200 headquarters just north of Tel Aviv . All the senior commanders " wanted to talk about was ' the world 's first AI war ' , " Misztal said . <h> A target factory on overdrive <p> International Humanitarian Law requires warring nations to balance the anticipated military advantage of an attack with the expected collateral damage to civilians , known as proportionality or the " reasonable military commander " standard . <p> The treaties , which Israel has only partially ratified , are silent on artificial intelligence . The military 's intelligence data processing " meets the international law definition for a lawful target , " the IDF said in a statement this northern summer . <p> By Israel 's own admission , AI has played a big part in the targeting process in Gaza . Within days of the October 7 attacks , US-manufactured 900kg Mark 80 munitions soon rained onto the territory . <p> In a November 2 , 2023 , press release , the IDF announced that Gospel had helped it bomb 12,000 targets in Gaza . <p> Set to dramatic music and a video of buildings exploding , the release touted " a first-of-its-kind collaboration " in which intelligence from the AI target factory was being fed in real time to forces on the ground , in the air and at sea - enabling hundreds of attacks to be " carried out in an instant " . <p> Adam Raz , an Israeli historian who has interviewed soldiers and commanders about 8200 's use of AI , said he calculated that the IDF was hitting roughly two targets per minute at the height of the bombing - what he called an " astonishing " rate . <p> One intelligence officer told the Post that he witnessed the IDF using AI to cut corners to make targeting decisions . The soldier spoke on the condition of anonymity because it is a crime to describe military technology without government approval in Israel . <p> In the early days of the war the target factory was working on overdrive , staffed with about 300 soldiers operating around-the-clock . Many of the analysts were required to vet recommended targets from the Gospel and Lavender , a process that could take anywhere from three minutes to five hours . <p> The rule mandating two pieces of human-derived intelligence to validate a prediction from Lavender was dropped to one at the outset of the war , according to two people familiar with the efforts . <p> In some cases , in the Gaza division , soldiers who were poorly trained in using the technology attacked human targets without corroborating Lavender 's predictions at all , the soldier said . <p> At certain times the only corroboration required was that the target was a male , according to another person familiar with the efforts . <p> " You start with Lavender , and then you do the intelligence work , " the person said . " In the beginning of the war , they cut the work in half - which is okay , because it 's war . The problem was that then they sometimes cut all the work . " <p> To quickly trace the people Lavender had flagged as likely Hamas members , the IDF obtained real-time photos of people in their homes using a method the soldier declined to describe.Custom-built facial recognition tools enabled them to cross-reference the photos with existing imagesof Hamas members in the Lavender database . <p> While the matches appeared to be accurate , the person said , some soldiers grew concerned that the military was relying solely on the technology without corroboration that the people were still active members of the terrorist organisation . <p> Concerns about proportionality also took a back seat : Some people captured in the photographs might have been family members , and IDF commanders accepted that those people also would be killed in an attack , the soldier said . <p> At one point , the soldier 's unit was ordered to use a software program to estimate civilian casualties for a bombing campaign targeting about 50 buildings in northern Gaza.The unit 's analysts were given a simple formula : dividethe number of people in a district by the number of people estimated to live there - deriving the former figureby counting the cellphones connecting to a nearby cell tower . <p> Using a red-yellow-green traffic light , the system would flash green if a building had an occupancy rate of 25% or less - a threshold considered sufficient to pass to a commander to make the call about whether to bomb . <p> The soldier said he was stunned by what he considered an overly simplified analysis . <p> It took no account of whether a cellphone might be turned off or had run out of poweror of children who would n't have a cellphone . <p> Without AI , the military may have called people to see if they were home , the soldier said , a manual effort that would have been more accurate but taken far longer . <p> AI systems have built-in inaccuracies that make them inappropriate for a life-and-death context such as war , said Heidy Khlaaf , a vocal critic of Israel and chief AI scientist at the AI Institute , a New York-based non-profit that produces policy recommendations . <p> Khlaaf noted that the autonomous vehicles industry has spent the past decade trying to get its machine-learning algorithms to 100% accuracy , with little success . <p> Mimran , the former IDF lawyer , said he still believes militaries in the West must embrace AI tools to combat rivals such as China , but he worries about the accuracy of AI-enabled decision-making in the high-pressure fog of war . <p> " For pace , it 's a game-changer . But is it a game-changer in terms of quality ? " Mimran said . " I do n't think so . "
