<h> Last Hospital In Northern Gaza Out Of Service Following Raid <p> The raid , reportedly by Israeli forces , saw some areas of the hospital burnt and severely damaged , including the laboratory , surgical unit and medical store . The director of the hospital , Dr. Abu Safiya , is thought to have been detained during the raid.WHO has lost contact with him . <p> A number of people were reportedly stripped and forced to walk toward southern Gaza , whilst critically ill patients were forced to relocate to the Indonesian Hospital , which lacks the necessary equipment and supplies to provide adequate care . WHO says that the movement and treatment of patients under such conditions pose grave risks to their survival . An urgent WHO mission to Indonesian Hospital is being planned for Sunday to safely move them to southern Gaza for continued care . <h> Escalating attacks <p> The WHO described the raid as part of the " systematic dismantling of the health system " , noting that , over a two-month period , attacks on health workers and the hospitals in the area have taken place almost daily : this week alone , bombardments in its vicinity reportedly killed 50 people , including five health workers from Kamal Adwan Hospital . <p> The deployment of international emergency medical teams has been repeatedly denied and , despite the increasingly dire needs for emergency and trauma services and supplies , only 10 out of 21 WHO missions to Kamal Adwan have been partially facilitated between early October and December . <p> Despite the restrictions , the WHO missions succeeded in delivering 45,000 litres of fuel , medical supplies , blood , and food were delivered , and 114 patients along with 123 of their companions were transferred to Al-Shifa Hospital in Gaza City . <h> Using Scoop for work ? <p> Scoop is free for personal use , but you 'll need a licence for work use . This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop . Join today with plans starting from less than $3 per week , plus gain access to exclusive Pro features .
