<p> Attacks:There are no safe places for the militarily-dominated population in Gaza , who find themselves subjected to airstrikes and other missile attackson buildings , homes and many essentialfacilities , as well as constant gunfire and invasions by Israeli forces.The Israeli Navy continues to fire missiles , targeting facilities and buildings along the entire Gaza shoreline . <p> Victims:48more people have been killedwithin the past 48 hours , bringing the total number killed in Gaza since 7 October2023 to at least45,484 . Another 52have been wounded , bringing that total to 108,090 . The daily average number of men , women and children killed in Gaza is at least 101and , thatof those injured , is nowmore than241 . <p> Freezing temperatures have killed three Palestinian babies in the Gaza Strip amid a deadly Israeli onslaught on the enclave , officials and local media said on Thursday . A three-week-old baby girl lost her life in a tent encampment in al-Mawasi in the southern city of Khan Yunis on Wednesday , Dr Munir Al-Bursh , the Director General of Gaza 's Health Ministry , said on his X account . Sela Mahmoud Al-Fasih " froze to death from the extreme cold " , he added . <p> The official Palestinian news agency , Wafa , said two other infants , ages three days and one month , have also died from cold temperatures and a lack of access to warm shelter . The Israeli Army has continued a brutal offensive on the Gaza Strip that has killed nearly 45,400 people , mostly women and children , since a Hamas attack on 7 October last year , despite a UN Security Council resolution calling for an immediate ceasefire . Tel Aviv has imposed a stifling blockade on Gaza , leaving the territory 's 2.3 million population on the verge of famine . <p> One doctor , a lab technician and two maintenance workers were among those killed as a fourth baby in three days dies of cold during Israel 's genocide . Israel 's genocide has killed five staff members at one of northern Gaza 's last functioning hospitals , the facility 's director says , as yet another baby freezes to death in the besieged and bombed Palestinian enclave . Hussam Abu Safia , Head of Kamal Adwan Hospital in Beit Lahiya , on Thursday said the " martyrs included a doctor . " Al Jazeera 's Hind Khoudary , reporting from Central Gaza , said a laboratory technician and two maintenance workers were among those killed in the attack . " We know that the hospital is one of the only medical facilities still operating , and it is working with the bare minimum human resources and a lack of medical supplies , " she said . <p> " Israeli forces have been attacking the surroundings of Kamal Adwan Hospital , sending quadcopters inside the hospital and shooting Palestinians . " The hospital has been rendered non -- operational after weeks of near-daily attacks . Israeli forces previously killed the Director of the hospital 's ICU , Dr Ahmed al-Kahlout , and wounded dozens of medical staff in attacks on and near the facility . Khoudary said Palestinian rescue workers have been unable to reach the bodies of those killed at the hospital . " People are unable to bury those Palestinians who are being killed every single day by the Israeli forces in northern Gaza , " she added . <p> Israel has targeted a broadcast van close to a hospital in Central Gaza , killing at least five journalists , according to Palestinian authorities and media reports . The journalists , from the al-Quds Today channel , were covering events near al-Awda Hospital , located in the Nuseirat refugee camp , when their broadcasting van was hit by an Israeli air strike , Al Jazeera 's Anas al-Sharif reported early on Thursday morning . Footage from the scene circulating on social media shows a vehicle engulfed in flames . A screen -- shot taken from a video of the white-coloured van shows the word " Press " in large red lettering across the back of the vehicle . The deceased journalists have been named as Fadi Hassouna , Ibrahim al-Sheikh Ali , Mohammed al-Ladah , Faisal Abu al-Qumsan and Ayman al-Jadi . Al Jazeera 's al-Sharif said that Ayman al-Jadi had been waiting for his wife in front of the hospital while she was in labour to give birth to their first child . <p> Since midnight on 07 October 2023 , Occupation forces have been imposing a complete closure around the whole of the West Bank , **26;700;TOOLONG even permit -- holders ) from entering both the city of Jerusalem as well as Israel , otherwise than for especially -- negotiated exceptions . Permanent military checkpoints impose severe travel restrictions within the Occupied West Bank . <p> Home invasion and forced personal demolition : Jerusalem -- the Israeli Occupation forced a resident , Abu Zaid Awadallah , to destroy his home in Sur Baher -- or otherwise be forced to pay an extortionate sum to the Israeli Occupation demolition squads , who would be sent in to do it . <p> Home invasions and armed robbery : place -- Jerusalem -- morning , Israeli forces raided Azzun and invaded a number of houses , plundering one of them of cash to the value of approximately$US1280 . <p> Home invasion:Nablus -- morning , Israeli troops raided the village of Beit Dajan and invaded a house . <p> Home invasions:Hebron -- 17:45 , the Israeli Army raided the town of Idhna and invaded a number of homes . <p> Israeli Army population -- control -- land-grab and agricultural sabotage:Tubas -- Occupation troopsforced farmers to stopworking their land in the North Jordan Valley Umm al-Quba area and forced them off it . <p> Israeli Army agricultural sabotage:Nablus -- the Israeli Army uprooted a number of olive trees , as well as trees in a forest near the village of Madama . <p> Israeli Army population -- control -- armed robbery:Nablus -- 15:15 , Israeli troops seized a bulldozer owned by a villager in Madama , as he was attempting to clear huge barriers of soil piled up between Madama and Asira al-Qibliya villages . <p> Occupation settler stoning:Nablus -- 12:10 , Israelis , from the Yitzhar Occupation settlement , stoned passing vehicles near a roundabout , north of Huwara . <p> Leslie Bravery is a Londoner with vivid World War Two memories of the Nazi blitz on his home town . In 1947/1948 His father explained to him what was happening to the Palestinians thus : " Any ideology or political movement that creates refugees in the process of realising its ambitions must be inhuman and should be opposed and condemned as unacceptable . " What followed confirmed this assessment of the Zionist entity a hundredfold . Now a retired flamenco guitarist , with a lifelong interest in the tragedy of what happened to the Palestinian people , he tries to publicise their plight . Because the daily injustices they suffer barely get a mention in the mainstream news media , Leslie edits/compiles a daily newsletter , In Occupied Palestine , for the Palestine Human Rights Campaign . These days , to preserve his sanity , he enjoys taking part in a drama group whenever possible !
