<p> Egypt has vehemently condemned the Israeli airstrike targeting international relief workers in the Gaza Strip , affiliated with the World Central Kitchen , resulting in the tragic deaths of seven individuals of various nationalities . The Ministry of Foreign Affairs issued a statement on Tuesday expressing its strong condemnation of the attack . <p> In its statement , Egypt reiterated its firm rejection of Israel 's ongoing targeting of humanitarian organisations . These organisations play a crucial role in addressing the dire humanitarian conditions in Gaza . Egypt emphasised the need for Israel to be held accountable for these flagrant violations of international and humanitarian law . <p> Egypt called for the implementation of UN Security Council resolutions that advocate for the safe and sustainable access of humanitarian aid to the Gaza Strip . It stressed that Israel 's persistent disregard for international laws and norms , coupled with its indifference to humanitarian considerations , would only worsen the already dire humanitarian situation in the region . Egypt highlighted the urgent need for the international community to take decisive action against such violations . <p> Egypt urged for a thorough investigation to hold those responsible for the attack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Security Council resolutions , including an immediate ceasefire and ensuring safe access for humanitarian aid . Egypt also underscored the importance of protecting all humanitarian relief workers , recognising their essential role in addressing the ongoing crisis in Gaza . <p> Disclaimer : The content of this article is syndicated or provided to this website from an external third party provider . We are not responsible for , and do not control , such external websites , entities , applications or media publishers . The body of the text is provided on an " as is " and " as available " basis and has not been edited in any way . Neither we nor our affiliates guarantee the accuracy of or endorse the views or opinions expressed in this article . Read our full disclaimer policy here .
