<p> A line of fog was seen hovering low over the Saint John River in southern New Brunswick on Tuesday , April 16 . This video was posted to X by My New Brunswick , a local website , which said it was filmed on the bank of the river in Jemseg.Fog forms over bodies of water when warm , moist air moves over colder waters , according to the US National Weather Service . Credit : mynewbrunswick.ca via Storyful <p> A pro-Palestinian protester set an American flag on fire as crowds opposing the war in Gaza rallied outside Brooklyn Borough Hall in New York City on Monday , April 15 . Protesters earlier demonstrated outside the New York Stock Exchange in Lower Manhattan , where they were led in chants of " occupation no more " and " Israel is a terror state . " Several people held balloons in the shape of watermelons -- a symbol of solidarity with Palestinians -- with the words " Free Palestine " printed on them . The group was met with pro-Israeli counter-protesters , reports said.After being blocked by police while trying to march over the Brooklyn Bridge , some demonstrators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Smith , who captured this footage.After reaching Brooklyn , a brief rally was held outside Brooklyn Borough Hall , where a protester set fire to a US flag . Protesters then continued marching toward Grand Army Plaza . Police made several forceful arrests , the footage shows.That night , NYPD Chief of Patrol John Chell posted a photo showing police making those arrests and praised the officers for doing a " good job . " NYPD Deputy Commissioner Kaz Daughtry said police " did an excellent job arresting those who chose to block our highways and bridges . " Credit : Katie Smith via Storyful <p> Dramatic scenes unfolded in the Kemerovo region of Russia in early April . Floodwaters and ice had destroyed a pontoon bridge over the Tom River . Three people were trapped on one of the broken pontoons and were in danger of being swept away . Fortunately , the stranded people were evacuated in time . <p> Watch as Rishi Sunak 's controversial Rwanda asylum bill returned to House of Lords on Tuesday ( 16 April ) after MPs rejected a series of amendments . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scheme continued as peers once again debated legislation declaring the east African nation safe for refugees . The Government successfully overturned six House of Lords amendments on Monday as MPs voted to return the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill to its original form two years after the UK first announced its deal with Rwanda . <p> A hippo sprayed excrement after being provoked by a group of lions in Kenya on March 29 , according to a local wildlife-spotting group.Maasai Sightings said their footage showed lions from the Rongai pride approaching and provoking the hippo , which then responded by marking its territory . The group of lions swiftly retreated in response.Maasai Sightings is a platform that posts wildlife and nature videos from the Maasai Mara game reserve to raise awareness of wildlife and nature . Credit : Maasai Sightings via Storyful
