@@93910866 <p> The Film Development Council of the Philippines and the Directors Guild of the Philippines have chosen Erik Matti 's " On the Job : The Missing 8 " as its entry for the Oscars ' international feature film race . The film had its world premiere at the Venice Film Festival last year where it won best actor for John Arcilla . <p> The film is a follow up to Matti 's " On The Job , " which bowed at Cannes Directors ' Fortnight in 2013 . Inspired by true events , the film follows a corrupt journalist seeking justice for his colleagues , and a convict who is frequently brought out of prison to perform assassinations . <p> The " On the Job " franchise was also expanded as a TV series for HBO , which was recently nominated in the TV Movie/Mini-Series category at the International Emmys . <p> Pakistan Jumps for ' Joyland ' <p> Pakistan 's Oscar selection committee , headed by double Oscar winner Sharmeen Obaid-Chinoy , has chosen Saim Sadiq 's " Joyland " as its entry for the Oscars ' international feature film race . The film had its world premiere at Cannes earlier this year where it won the Queer Palm and the jury prize at the festival 's Un Certain Regard strand . <p> The tale of sexual revolution sees a patriarchal family yearn for the birth of a baby boy to continue the family line , while their youngest son secretly joins an erotic dance theater and falls for an ambitious transsexual starlet . <p> Portugal has selected " Alma Viva , " the feature debut of Portuguese-French filmmaker Crist ? le Alves Meira which world premiered at Critics ' Week in Cannes . <p> " Alma Viva " follows Salom ? , a little girl who returns to her family village nestled in the Portuguese mountains for the holidays . As the holidays begin in a carefree atmosphere , her beloved grandmother suddenly dies . While the adults are tearing each other apart over the funeral , Salom ? is haunted by the spirit of the one who was considered a witch . <p> " Alma Viva " is a personal project for Alves Meira , who was born in France to Portuguese emigrant parents and cast her own daughter is the role of Salom ? . <p> The film was produced by Ga ? lle Mareschi and Pedro Borges , and co-produced by S ? bastien Delloye and Rachel Morte . Producers are Guillaume Marten , David Thion and Philippe Martin , Mathias Jenny and Thomas Berthon-Fishman . <p> Crist ? le Alves Meira was trained as an actor and began her career as a theater director . She then directed a documentary in Cape Verde , " Som &amp; Morabeza , " and one in Angola , " Born in Luanda . " She directed a few shorts , including " Campo de V ? boras " and " Invis ? vel Her ? i . " <p> Morocco Picks ' The Blue Caftan ' as its Oscar Candidate <p> Morocco has chosen Maryam Touzani 's " The Blue Caftan " as its official entry for the Oscars ' international feature film race . The movie world premiered at the Cannes Film Festival and won the Fipresci prize . Films Boutique has sold the film to more than 30 territories . <p> Strand Releasing will distribute the film in North America . " The Blue Caftan " just had its North American premier at Toronto in the Special Screenings section . <p> Touzani 's follow-up to Un Certain Regard title " Adam , " " The Blue Caftan " tells the story of Halim and Mina , a married couple running a traditional caftan store in one of Morocco 's oldest medinas . In order to keep up with the commands of the demanding customers , they hire Youssef . The talented apprentice shows an utmost dedication in learning the art of embroidery and tailoring from Halim . Slowly Mina realizes how much her husband is moved by the presence of the young man . <p> Argentina has sent " Argentina 1985 , " directed by Santiago Mitre , to vie for the Academy Awards ' best international film prize . <p> The drama based on real events won the Fipresci jury prize at the Venice Film Festival , where it had its world premiere , and snagged the coveted Audience Award at the San Sebastian Film Festival , both in September . <p> Starring Ricardo Darin ( " The Secret in Their Eyes , " " Wild Tales " ) , " Argentina , 1985 " is inspired by the true story of prosecutor Julio Strassera , who -- together with young upstart lawyer Luis Moreno Ocampo and their even younger legal team -- took on Argentina 's military junta and brought several members to trial . The military dictatorship of Jorge Videla was accused of sequestering , torturing and murdering alleged members of the opposition . It ruled with brutal impunity until democracy was finally restored in 1983 . <p> As Infinity Hill producer Axel Kuschevatzky pointed out in a previous interview with Variety : " One of the reasons why we made this film is because most of us have young children ; we made this for the generations to come and most of all , to demonstrate how fragile democracy is . " <p> " While there will always be doubts that justice can prevail in a democracy ; this trial proves it can be done . The message is universal and can be applied to the current state of the world we live in : ' Nobody is above the law . ' " <p> Structured like a thriller but with some touches of wry humor , " Argentina 1985 " is a co-production between Amazon Studios , Mitre 's La Uni ? n de los R ? os , Kenya Films and Infinity Hill . Prime Video will launch the film worldwide on Oct. 21 . <p> Denmark Selects ' Holy Spider ' <p> Denmark has selected " Holy Spider , " Ali Abbasi 's Iran-set daring thriller , to be its official Oscar entry for the international feature film race . <p> The movie world premiered at Cannes in competition and won best actress for Iranian Ebrahimi . It went on to play at Toronto and earned unanimous praise . <p> A Danish-Iranian filmmaker , Abbasi made his feature debut with " Border " which won a prize at Un Certain Regard in Cannes . " Holy Spider , " Abbasi 's sophomore outing , was one of the three films shortlisted by Denmark 's Oscar committee , along with ' Forever ' by Frelle Petersen and ' As in Heaven ' by Tea Lindeburg . <p> Based on a true story , the film revolves around a family man , Saeed , who embarks on his own religious quest to " cleanse " the holy Iranian city of Mashhad of sex workers and turns into a serial killer . The film was produced by Sol Bondy at One Two Film , and Jacob Jarek at Profile Pictures . Wild Bunch International handles worldwide sales . Utopia acquired North American rights off the film 's acclaimed world premiere at Cannes . The Danish release is scheduled for Oct. 13 . <h> Hong Kong Picks ' Where the Wind Blows ' For Oscars Contention <p> Hong Kong has selected controversial crime thriller " Where the Wind Blows " as its contender for the Academy Awards ' best international film competition . The film is directed by Philip Yung , whose previous " Port of Call " was the territory 's Oscar contender in 2015 . <p> The selection was made by a committee within the Hong Kong Film Producers Association . The organization said Tuesday said that " Wind " won on a majority vote , but it did not name the other titles on its shortlist . <p> The film , previously known as " Theory of Ambitions " was produced by Hong Kong 's Mei Ah Film Production in a co-venture with mainland Chinese firms Dadi Century and Global Group , with production taking place as far back as 2018 . Its production budget has been reported as $38 million , making it one of the most expensive Hong Kong films of all time . <p> " Wind " stars Hong Kong 's Tony Leung Chiu-Wai , Aaron Kwok , Patrick Tam and Michael Chow and Chinese actress Du Juan . The actors play four notoriously corrupt police officers who rose to power in 1960s Hong Kong , with Du one of their wives . <p> " Technical reasons " is widely understood in mainland China as a euphemism for censorship and was the phrase used for the abrupt cancelation of Zhang Yimou 's " One Second " at the 2019 Berlin film festival and for the last-minute halt of " The Eight Hundred " which had been set as the opening film at the Shanghai festival later the same year . <p> The film was again selected as the HKIFF 's opening film in 2022 and played in public on Aug. 15 , 2022 . Yung was not present in Hong Kong when it screened . <h> Estonia Picks Basketball Film ' Kalev ' For Oscars Consideration <p> A jury convened by the Estonian Film Institute has selected Ove Musting 's basketball film " Kalev " as the country 's candidate in the contest for the Best International Feature Film Oscar at the Academy Awards . <p> A jury led by Edith Sepp , the head of the EFI , selected this year 's nominee from among 11 candidates . Other members of the jury included cinema journalist T ? nu Karjatse , film designer Eugen Tamberg , film booking specialist T ? nis L ? hmus , distributor Kaupo Liiv , film critic and Black Nights Film Festival director Tiina Lokk , and film critic Johannes L ? hmus . <p> " Kalev " is the story of the journey of the Estonian basketball team to the final championships held in the sport in the collapsing Soviet Union . With many of their fellow countrymen opposed to them taking part , and pitted against merciless opponents , the team faces turbulent times on and off the court . The film was inspired by actual events that took place in 1991 , when the Estonian team won the last ever Soviet basketball trophy . <p> " Despite knowing how the story ends , tension is maintained to the final frame , " noted the jury in justifying their choice . " The film is marked out by first-rate direction and editing , which enhance every scene , and the narrative itself is fascinating to follow . Adding to all of this is exciting lighting and camerawork . Among the cast , Mait Malmsten in particular stands out for his performance . Basketball is used in the film to convey key moments in the modern history of the Republic of Estonia : its regaining of independence , the events leading up to it , the problems this involved and the solutions that were found to them . " <p> The jury felt that in revisiting the basketball team 's 1991 triumph the director was examining themes that are pertinent today : a country 's right to self-determination ; national pride ; opposition to an imperialistic world view ; and sport as a universal concept that transcends political power struggles . Another of " Kalev 's " strengths is that it examines how a team comes together and the roles that individuals play therein , the jury said . <p> " Kalev " received four votes from the jury . The runner-up , which received three votes , was Jaak Kilmi 's family film " Tagurpidi Torn " ( The Sleeping Beast ) , about which one of the jury members said : " Of the films in contention , ' Tagurpidi Torn ' was in my view the strongest overall . A thriller about social problems , it manages to maintain its tempo while building up a sense of unease in the viewer , and does n't answer all of the questions it asks , but leaves a lot of them up in the air . " Another member of the jury said of the film : " It 's a kids ' film that makes perfect viewing for adults as well , leading viewers down pathways of recollection that have surreptitiously embedded themselves in our subconscious . " <p> " Kalev " was shot by Rein Kotov , designed by Tiiu-Ann Pello , composed by Mihkel Zilmer and produced by Pille R ? nk and Maria Avdju ? ko . It is an Allfilm and Ugri Film co-production distributed by Hea Film . <p> The making of the film was supported by the EFI and the Cultural Endowment of Estonia , with film producer Kristjan Rahu providing substantial private backing . Other supporters included entrepreneur Priit Koit , the companies Alexela , Postimees , Cramo , Golden Club and Sportland , and the Riga Film Fund . <p> Italy Picks Mario Martone 's ' Nostalgia ' <p> Italy has selected Mario Martone 's Naples-set drama " Nostalgia , " which competed in Cannes , as its contender in the international Oscars race . <p> The well-received pic , which has been praised by Variety critic Guy Lodge as the prolific Italian auteur 's " most rewarding film in years , " stars Pierfrancesco Favino as the middle-aged Felice Lasco , who returns to the bustling port city after having lived in Egypt for 40 years . Once back , he is caught up in memories of a distant life spent in his hometown , as his criminal youth slowly catches up with him . <p> Besides Favino , the " Nostalgia " cast also includes Francesco Di Leva , who played the lead in Martone 's " The Mayor of Rione Sanit ? " and in this drama plays a priest who tries to help the protagonist navigate the Naples of today . <p> " Nostalgia , " which is based on Neapolitan author Ermanno Rea 's novel by the same title , was penned by Martone with Ippolita Di Maio . <p> The film is lensed by ace Italian cinematographer Paolo Carnera ( TV series " Gomorrah " ) and shot in Naples ' vibrant Sanit ? quarter , in the heart of the city , a labyrinthine area known for poverty and crime , but also for magnificent churches and Baroque buildings . Naples is clearly a strong element of the narrative . <p> " Nostalgia , " which has performed relatively well at the sagging Italian box office , has been sold widely by Italy 's True Colours in more than twenty international territories , but still lacks U.S. distribution . <p> Martone 's latest feature emerged as Italy 's Oscar candidate from a group of twelve titles , beating Emanuele Crialese 's Penelope Cruz-starrer " L'Immensit ? " and Felix van Groeningen and Charlotte Vandermeersch 's Italian-language drama " The Eight Mountains , " which were considered the other frontrunners . Luca Guadagnino 's " Bones and All " was not a candidate because it 's in English . <p> France Selects " Saint Omer " <p> France 's Oscar committee has selected Alice Diop 's " Saint-Omer " to represent the country in the international feature film race . Diop 's debut fiction feature " Saint-Omer " won the Silver Lion and the Lion of the Future at the Venice Film Festival . It will be released in the U.S. by Super , the boutique distribution label from Neon . Saint Omer " will premiere at the New York Film Festival and play the BFI London Festival . <p> Venezuela has submitted Lorenzo Vigas ' " The Box " ( " La Caja " ) to represent the country at the Oscars . Vigas , who made film festival history by being the first Venezuelan-born filmmaker to snag the Venice Golden Lion with his 2015 feature debut " From Afar , " presented " The Box " at the Lido last year . <p> He describes " The Box " as the final part of a trilogy that began with his Cannes Critics ' Week short " Elephants Never Forget " and continued with " From Afar . " <p> " The heart of the story is really about a boy in search of his father , " said Vigas . That 's the overriding theme in all three stories : What happens to a child who grows up without a father . " <p> Cinepolis releases " The Box " in Mexico in November while Cines Unidos releases the drama in Venezuela in December . <p> Mubi , which has secured the U.S. rights , will release the drama theatrically in New York on Nov. 4 before streaming it on its platform from Nov.11 . " We decided to wait for the exhibition market to normalize a bit and now that moment has arrived , " Vigas told Variety . <p> " The Box " stars non-pro newcomer Hatzin Navarrete who plays a teen who is obsessed about finding his father . After he picks up a box in what he 's told are the remains of his father exhumed from a mass grave , he spots Mario ( played by veteran Mexican actor , Hernan Mendoza ) who is a dead ringer for the supposedly deceased parent . Hatzin hounds him until Mario grudgingly accepts him into the family and his dodgy business recruiting workers for the local factories . <p> Said Variety reviewer Guy Lodge : " This potentially far-fetched pivot into high-stakes , blood-laced thriller territory is kept grounded and plausible by the mutually watchful , reflective connection between the two leads , as the relationship between Hatzin and Mario bristles and evolves and gradually finds common ground . " <p> Working with ace cinematographer Sergio Armstrong , Vigas shot " The Box " at various locations in Chihuahua and the border town of Juarez , where large multinational factories stand and where unresolved cases of vanished female workers still persist . <p> Based in Mexico , Vigas is a producing partner at Teorema with Michel Franco . <p> " The Box " is co-produced by Teorema and SK Global Entertainment in co-production with Labodigital . Cologne-based The Match Factory handles world sales . <p> Sweden Picks ' Boy From Heaven ' <p> Tarik Saleh 's film " Boy from Heaven " is Sweden 's contender for the 2022-23 Academy Awards Best International Feature Film category . <p> The political thriller about fisherman 's son Adam , who is thrown into a brutal power struggle between Egypt 's religious and political elite , won the best screenplay award at Cannes earlier this year , as well as the Fran ? ois Chalais Prize . <p> Saleh said : " I am honored to represent Sweden with our film . Sweden has become a great film nation and to be chosen by my fellow filmmakers makes me very proud . " <p> Producer Kristina ? berg said : " I would like to thank the jury and everyone who has worked with ' Boy From Heaven . ' It 's truly amazing that our film has been chosen as Sweden 's submission to the Oscars . The film has already received great international acclaim and made headlines in international press since the success in Cannes . Now it 's sought after among distributors all over the world . " <p> Petter Mattsson , head of the international department at the Swedish Film Institute and chair of the Swedish Oscar Committee added : " ' Boy From Heaven ' is a film with both political and personal depth where the little guy becomes a pawn in a game with high stakes . With his masterful script , fantastic acting , magnificent settings and cinematography that leaves the viewer breathless , Tarik Saleh has created a political thriller of high international standard . I am convinced that the film has a real chance of going all the way to nomination and beyond . " <p> Sweden has been nominated in the category several times and has won it thrice , the last time in 1983 for Ingmar Bergman 's " Fanny and Alexander . " <p> Palestine Picks ' Mediterranean Fever ' <p> Maha Haj 's drama " Mediterranean fever " which tackles the dynamics of male friendship and the strain of living under Israeli occupation , has been selected as Palestine 's official entry for the 2022-23 Academy Awards Best International Feature Film category . <p> The film , which world premiered in Cannes Un Certain Regard earlier this year , follows a family man named Waleed whose chronic depression hinders his dreams of a writing career and leads him into the path of neighbor and petty criminal Jalal . <p> " Mediterranean Fever " is a co-production between Palestine , Germany , France , Cyprus and Qatar , with sales handled by Luxbox . <p> Haj in an interview with Variety said that the film " Is partly about the frustration that we Palestinians live with daily , whether we 're in Gaza , the West Bank , inside the state of Israel or exiled . It 's the sense of being imprisoned and not knowing when you 're going to be free , if you 're going to be free . " <p> The Israeli-born Palestinian director also pointed out that " I decided not to take money from the Israeli Film Fund although I have every right to , " changing her approach from her first feature , " Personal Affairs " which was funded by the organization . <p> " I wanted to make a film without Israeli money because I wanted to present it to the world as Palestinian , " she said . <p> The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences first recognized Palestine as a territory in 2003 . Since then Palestine has scored two nominations for Hany Abu Assad 's " Omar " and " Paradise Now , " respectively in 2005 and 2013 . <h> Lithuania Picks ' Pilgrims ' <p> Lithuania has selected " Pilgrims " ( aka " Pilgrimai " ) as its national contender for the Oscars ' best international feature film award . Directed by Laurynas Bareisa , the film is a troubling drama about a man and a woman who travel to a small town to investigate the gruesome death of the man they had in common . The film debuted last year at the Orizzonti section of the Venice Film Festival where it won best picture . It had its qualifying commercial release earlier this year through distributor Kino Pavasaris . International sales are handled by the U.K.-based Reason8 . The selection was announced by the Lithuanian Film Center and the Lithuanian Filmmakers Union . <h> India Picks ' Last Film Show ' <p> The partly autobiographical drama takes Nalin back to his roots in Saurashtra , Gujarat , western India , where " Last Film Show " was filmed . The story is set against the backdrop of Indian cinemas witnessing a massive transition from celluloid to digital where hundreds of single-screen cinemas are either in ruins or have disappeared altogether . <p> The film follows nine-year-old boy Samay , whose life turns upside down after watching his first movie . He passionately falls in love with films against his father 's wish . Samay strikes a deal with Fazal , the projectionist , who will let him watch movies for free in exchange for eating the contents of his lunchbox . Their food-for-films deal turns into an endearing friendship , but heartbreaking choices lie ahead . <p> The film , produced by Siddharth Roy Kapur , Pan Nalin , Dheer Momaya and Mark Duale , premiered at Tribeca and has won multiple awards across various international film festivals and scored distribution deals worldwide . <p> Nalin said : " I could have never imagined such a day would come and bring light and celebration of light . ' Chhello Show ' has been enjoying love from around the world but there was an ache in my heart that how do I make India discover it ? Now I can breathe again and believe in cinema that entertains , inspires and enlightens . " <p> Samuel Goldwyn Films acquired all U.S. rights to the film , which is represented in international markets by Orange Studio . <p> Roy Kapur said : " We are thrilled and honored that our film , ' Last Film Show ' has been selected to represent India at the Academy Awards . There could not be a more apt time for a film like this one , that celebrates the magic and wonder of cinema and the theatrical experience . When cinema-going around the world has been disrupted by a pandemic , it reminds audiences anew of the first time they fell in love with the experience of watching a movie in a darkened cinema hall . It is a matter of great pride for us to represent our country with this film , and with the backing of our partners Samuel Goldwyn Films and Orange Studio , we will make sure that we give it our best shot at the Academy Awards . ' <p> Momaya added : " We are very excited , this is just a first step . We aim to get a nomination and eventually win . Hoping we can make our country proud . " <p> Nepal Picks ' Butterfly on the Window Pane ' <p> The International Feature Film Selection Committee of Nepal has selected feature debutant Sujit Bidari 's " Ainaa Jhyal Ko Putali " ( " Butterfly on the Window Pane " ) as its contender for the 2022-23 Academy Awards Best International Feature Film category . <p> The film , which debuted at the Busan International Film Festival 's New Currents competition strand in 2020 , released earlier this month in Nepal to much critical acclaim . It follows studious teenager Bidya and her young brother Basanta . When he learns that his sister is giving up on her dreams , Basanta tries to give Bidya the hope she desperately needs . <p> Nepal began submitting to the category in 1999 and scored a nomination with its very first submission -- Eric Valli 's " Himalaya . " It has yet to win an Oscar . <p> New Zealand Picks ' Muru ' <p> New Zealand has selected " Muru , " written and directed by Tearepa Kahi , as its contender for the 2022-23 Academy Awards Best International Feature Film category . <p> Inspired by actual events , " Muru " is the story of a local Police Sergeant ( portrayed by Cliff Curtis ) , who must choose between duty to his badge or his people , when the government invokes anti-terrorism powers to launch an armed raid on the remote Urewera community . The action drama is not a re-creation , but a response to the raids against Tuhoe in 2007 and 1916 . ' Muru ' is a Maori concept for ' forgiveness . ' <p> " Muru " was the opening film of the New Zealand International Film Festival in July and began its commercial release in the country in August , landing on top of the box office for two weeks . It had its international premiere at the recent Toronto film festival and will next play in competition at the Busan festival . A commercial release in Australia also follows in October . <p> Rialto Distribution releasing the film in New Zealand and Australia . Arclight Films is handling sales internationally . <p> Iran picks Houman Seyedi 's ' World War III ' <p> Iran has selected anti-totalitarian political drama " World War III " by prolific young director Houman Seyedi as its candidate in the race for the international feature film Oscar . <p> " World War III " recently scored a double whammy at the Venice Film Festival , scooping the top prize in the Horizons sidebar and also an acting prize for leading man Mohsen Tanabandeh . <p> The film is a political metaphor in which a homeless day laborer on a construction site named Shakib gets hired to work as an extra on a film being shot on the site about the atrocities committed by Hitler during WWII . <p> Shakib then has to contend with the pic 's tyrant filmmakers and a secret lover who jeopardizes this potentially life-changing opportunity . <p> Seyedi in his director 's statement noted that " Societies ruled by totalitarian regimes are the most effective creators of anarchists . " <p> " I 've always wondered for how much longer there can be tyranny and oppression in the world and who the people are who will be crushed by the powerful rulers of such plagued societies , " the director said . <p> " World War III , " which Seyedi co-wrote , directed , edited and produced with financing from an Iranian company called Namava , is the director 's sixth feature . Sales company Iranian Independents is distributing the film internationally <p> " World War III " was selected by an Iranian government committee to represent the country at the Oscars out of more than 50 submissions that were at first whittled down to 17 and subsequently to five final candidates . <p> Unsurprisingly incarcerated director Jafar Panahi 's " No Bears , " which won the Special Jury Prize at Venice , was not among the candidates . " No Bears " is the latest of several features made in secrecy by the embattled auteur who was sentenced to six years in prison by Iranian authorities in July for " propaganda against the system . " <p> Iran has won the international feature film Oscar twice , both times with films by Asghar Farhadi , who won for " A Separation " in 2011 and for " The Salesman " in 2016 . <p> Israel Selects " Cinema Sabaya " <p> Israel has selected " Cinema Sabaya , " Orit Fouks Rotem 's feature debut , as its Oscar candidate in the international feature film race . <p> The film just triumphed at the Ophir Awards , Israel 's highest film honor , winning five prizes , including best film , director and supporting actress for Joanna Said during a ceremony hosted on Sept. 18 . " Cinema Sabaya , " which previously won best debut at the Jerusalem Film Festival , revolves around eight women , Arab and Jewish , who come from different backgrounds and take part in a video workshop hosted by a young Tel Aviv-based filmmaker . Through the experience , the women get to know one another and see their views and beliefs shifting . <p> Belgium Enters Lukas Dhont 's Cannes Prizewinner ' Close ' <p> Belgium has selected Lukas Dhont 's movie " Close " as its candidate in the race for the international feature film Oscar . The movie world premiered in competition at the Cannes Film Festival where it won the Grand Prize ( shared with Claire Denis 's film " Stars at Noon " ) . <p> " Close " follows the intense friendship between 13-year-old boys L ? o and Remi , which suddenly gets disrupted . Struggling to understand what has happened , L ? o approaches Sophie , R ? mi 's mother . The film is billed as an exploration of friendship and responsibility . The film is headlined by newcomers Eden Dambrine and Gustav De Waele . L ? a Drucker and Kevin Janssens , Marc Weiss , Igor Van Dessel , and L ? on Bataille also star . The movie marks Dhont 's follow up to his Golden Camera winning feature debut " Girl . " <p> " Close " was produced by Michiel Dhont and Dirk Impens for Menuet and co-produced by Diaphana , Topkapi Films and Versus Productions . The Match Factory has so far sold to more than 100 territories worldwide . MUBI acquired the rights for UK/Ireland , Latin America , Turkey , and India , and A24 has North American rights . <p> " We are so thrilled that Belgium has chosen Close as its official submission to the 2023 Academy Awards , " said David Laub at A24 . " We have loved this unique and moving film since the moment we saw it in Cannes , and are so proud to be behind it in the US and to be orchestrating its awards campaign , " Laub continued . <p> The executive said A24 strongly believes that " it will resonate with and profoundly affect its audience , and we are elated that it has taken this next step of becoming Belgium 's official submission . " <p> " Close " will kick off the Ghent Film Festival in Belgium on Oct. 11 . <p> Austria Selects " Corsage " Starring Vicky Krieps <p> Austria has selected Marie Kreutzer 's " Corsage " as its official entry in the race for the international feature film Oscar . <p> The period drama stars Vicky Krieps , who won the best actress award in the Un Certain Regard section of Cannes for her performance as Empress Elisabeth of Austria . <p> The film had its North American premiere at the Toronto Film Festival , and it will screen at the New York Film Festival too . IFC Films will release it in U.S. theaters on Dec. 23 . <p> The film received rave reviews at Cannes , with The Guardian 's Peter Bradshaw writing that Krieps gives " an exhilaratingly fierce , uningratiating performance , " and Jessica Kiang at Variety describing the " brilliant " film as " a witty subversion of biopic and costume-drama clich ? s . " <p> Picturehouse Entertainment will release the film in the U.K. on Dec. 30 . Other distributors include Ad Vitam in France , BIM in Italy , The Searchers in Benelux , Adso Films in Spain , and M2 in Poland . MK2 Films is handling international sales . <p> " Corsage " chronicles a critical period in the life of Empress Elisabeth . It starts in 1877 when Elisabeth -- renowned for her beauty -- is celebrating her 40th birthday . We see her insisting that her corset is laced ever tighter , and restricting what she eats to make that so . It is a metaphor for how she is constrained by the expectations of society -- limited to merely ceremonial duties , despite her intelligence , lust for life and rebellious spirit . <p> Croatia has selected Juraj Lerotic 's " Safe Place " in the race for a best international feature film nomination at the 95th Academy Awards . <p> The director 's feature debut is the emotional story of a family reeling in the wake of a suicide attempt that centers on a man 's struggle to save his younger brother , creating a rift in the family 's everyday life . <p> The film won awards for best first feature film , best emerging director and best actor at the Locarno Film Festival and was named best film at Sarajevo , where Lerotic also won best actor honors . Variety 's Guy Lodge described it as a " supremely poised and moving first feature " and a " shattering " debut , " with a long trail of further festival bookings surely ahead . " <p> " Safe Place " is produced by Pipser and Zelena zraka , with the support of the Croatian Audiovisual Center , Eurimages , HRT , CineLink Industry Days and the Slovenian Film Center . Cercamon is handling world sales . <p> Playing on Lerotic 's family history , the film features the Croatian multihyphenate in the lead role . Other cast includes Snje ? ana Sinovcic ? i ? kov and Goran Markovic . The cinematographer is Marko Brdar and the editor is Marko Ferkovic . <p> The Netherlands Enters ' Narcosis ' <p> The Netherlands has selected Martijn de Jong 's feature debut " Narcosis " as the country 's entry in the contest for the best international feature category of the 95th Academy Awards . <p> Penned by de Jong alongside Laura van Dijk , the movie tells the story of a close-knit family which is disrupted when the father fails to resurface during a professional dive . <p> The movie is headlined by Thekla Reuten , who starred in Oscar-nominated Dutch feature " Twin Sisters , " and Fedja van Hu ? t , who was the leading actor in " Character , " winner of the best foreign language film Oscar in 1998 . <p> " Narcosis , " produced by OAK Motion Pictures , will world premiere during the Netherlands Film Festival in September . Coccinelle Film Sales is repping international sales . <p> The Czech Republic Enters ' Il Boemo ' <p> The Czech Republic has selected period drama " Il Boemo " as its submission . The film , written and directed by Petr V ? clav , will celebrate its world premiere in San Sebastian Film Festival 's main competition this month . <p> Set in the second half of the 18th century , " Il Boemo " tells the story of Josef Myslivecek , son of a Prague miller , who leaves for Italy to fulfil his dream of establishing himself as a composer . Thanks to his talent but also his charisma and luck , in a few years he manages to break through . From an unknown musician , he becomes one of the biggest stars of the musical scene . His fame gives him access to the highest circles of society , and wins him the favour of some of the leading opera divas , but he struggles financially . <p> V ? clav made his feature debut in 1996 with his film about a Roma boy , " Marian , " which won him the Silver Leopard at Locarno . He is also known for his films " Parallel Worlds " ( 2001 ) and " The Way Out " ( 2014 ) , which premiered at San Sebastian in the New Directors competition , and the ACID section at Cannes , respectively . " The Way Out , " which focused on a young Roma woman trying to escape her poor living conditions , won seven Czech Lions in 2014 , including best film . This was followed by drama " We Are Never Alone " ( 2016 , presented in Forum at the Berlinale and at Toronto ) , " The Jumper " ( 2017 ) and " Confession of the Vanished , " the 2015 documentary about a performance of Myslivecek 's opera " Olimpiade , " and the composer himself , which served as prep work for " Il Boemo . " <p> Ukraine has entered Maryna Er Gorbach 's " Klondike " in the race for a best international feature film nomination at the 95th Academy Awards , Variety has learned exclusively . <p> The film was one of two features considered by the Ukrainian Oscar Committee in the selection process , alongside " Sniper . The White Raven , " directed by Marian Bushan . <p> " Klondike " portrays the brutal realities of the war unfolding in Ukraine 's Donbass region through the lens of a pregnant farmstead owner whose life and home have begun to unravel . <p> The film , which earned Er Gorbach best director honors after its world premiere in the World Cinema Dramatic competition at Sundance , has racked up a slew of awards , including best director at Sarajevo and best international film at Chile 's 18th Santiago International Film Festival ( Sanfic ) . <p> Largely told from the viewpoint of the pregnant Irka ( Oxana Cherkashyna ) , " Klondike " begins on July 17 , 2014 , the day a Malaysia Airlines passenger flight was shot down over Donbass , killing nearly 300 people . That tragedy , however , is set against a larger drama as the village that Irka and her husband , Tolik ( Sergey Shadrin ) , call home is beset by armed separatist forces . <p> Variety 's Guy Lodge , in a rave review of Er Gorbach 's " uncompromising , formally remarkable " feature , wrote : " Personal and political turmoil face a serene camera in ' Klondike , ' a vision of the ongoing war in Donbass war that brooks no compromise in depicting the severe impact of the conflict on the region 's civilians -- in particular , the innocent women to whom the film is dedicated . " <p> He added : " In Er Gorbach 's potent film , shot in unbroken , unblinking takes that observe obscene violence and destruction with cold candor , Irka 's resistance to warfare is at once fierce and futile . " Writing on the eve of the Russian invasion of Ukraine , Lodge noted that the film has " chilling topicality in its favor , even if the tensions it shows are all too longstanding . " <p> " Klondike " is a Kedr Film and Protim production in co-production with Turkish broadcaster TRT . It 's produced by Er Gorbach , Sviatoslav Bulakovskyi and Mehmet Bahadir Er . <p> Hungary Selects ' Blockade ' ( EXCLUSIVE ) <p> " Blockade " has been chosen as Hungary 's entry in the contest for a nomination in the Academy Awards ' best international film category , Variety has learned exclusively . <p> The film tells the true story of the first democratically elected Prime Minister of Hungary , J ? zsef Antall , from his freedom fighter days in 1956 to the infamous 1990 taxi blockade that shook the nation . <p> The film is directed by ? d ? m Tos ? r , written by Norber K ? bli , and produced by Tam ? s Lajos at Film Positive Productions . International sales are handled by NFI World Sales . <p> The decision was made by the Hungarian Oscar Selection Committee , which includes Csaba K ? el , the government 's commissioner for the development of the Hungarian motion picture industry , and chairman of the National Film Institute ; film directors Csaba Bereczki and P ? ter Bergendy ; Tibor Fony ? di , a screenwriter ; Andr ? s K ? lm ? n , a film distribution expert ; ? kos Pesti , a producer ; and Emil Nov ? k , a cinematographer . <p> The film is set six months after Antall becomes Prime Minister of the first democratic government following the 1989 collapse of the Communist regime , and faces the most difficult test of his life . <p> Taxi drivers protest against the drastic rise in gas prices by the House of the National Assembly . Quickly disillusioned with democracy , they blockade Budapest , and soon after the whole country . The opposition sides with them and prompts them to start a revolution . <p> The reserved and thoughtful Antall goes head to head with the populist President ? rp ? d G ? ncz about how they think the situation can be resolved , and their personalities and opinions collide . <p> The press and public opinion sympathize with the taxi drivers , and the police force abandons the government , now unpopular due to their position . Antall , a former participant in the 1956 Hungarian Revolution , finds himself on the other side of the barricade . <p> In the midst of this crisis , he has to undergo an operation for cancer and in the hospital ward afterwards he looks back at his life as a young history teacher turned revolutionary , and how he met his wife . <p> Now , Antall has to make a decision about what he should do . He uses all the resources he possibly can without abandoning the democratic values that have reshaped his country , and finds a solution . <p> " Blockade " is not only the chronicle of the four days of the taxi blockade , it shows the battles and bargains behind the scenes , and the private life of a Prime Minister dealing with a crisis , and fighting for democracy . <p> " As Hungary lives through the last hours of Soviet occupation , and an unexpectedly escalated crisis situation and a human drama , the film tells the story of a society starting to learn that democracy is not only about freedom , but also about duties and taking responsibility , " Tos ? r said . <p> " ' Blockade ' is the incredible true story of a nation divided and the leader who unites it -- while fighting a battle against his worst enemy yet : cancer , " K ? bli said . <p> " This film is special , most of all , because it is the first one to show the circumstances of the systemic change following the Socialist era in Hungary , and the political and private life of J ? zsef Antall , Prime Minister of the first democratically elected government , " Lajos said . <p> The historical drama will be released in Hungary on Oct. 20 . <p> Film Positive Productions , led by Lajos , has experience both in local and international feature films , television films , and documentaries . Along with its sister company , Szupermodern Studio , it has produced numerous critically acclaimed television films , including " Trezor , " " Eternal Winter " and " The Exam , " and its feature film sequel " The Game . " <p> Tos ? r has been working in film production for over 20 years . His latest film is " Kittenberger -- The Last Hunt " ( 2021 ) , which presents the adventurous life story of Africa expert K ? lm ? n Kittenberger . In his 2020 film " Roads Fifty-Six , " through personal stories , he shows viewers the fates of 1956 refugees beyond the Iron Curtain . He produced the documentary " Strong " ( 2011 ) , which follows the heroic struggle of Alpinist Zsolt Eross , from his leg amputation to his return to the mountains . <p> Japan Enters Hayakawa Chie 's ' Plan 75 ' <p> " Plan 75 , " first-time director Hayakawa Chie 's drama about a government program to euthanize the elderly in a near-future Japan , has been selected as Japan 's entry for best international feature film at the upcoming Academy Awards . The Motion Picture Producers Association of Japan , which oversees the selection process , made the announcement . <p> Based on Hayakawa 's original script , the film first took form as a segment in " Ten Years Japan , " a 2018 omnibus with Kore-eda Hirokazu serving as executive producer . <p> Starring Baisho Chieko , with support from Isomura Yuto , Kawai Yumi and Stefanie Arianne , the film focuses on an elderly woman ( Baisho ) who is enticed into the title program , which promises an easy and painless death to anyone 75 or older . The aim , never directly stated to clients by the plan 's representatives , is to decrease the population of ' unnecessary ' seniors . <p> Premiering at this year 's Cannes , the film won a special mention in the Camera d'Or competition for first-time directors . Released on June 17 in Japan on more than 100 screens by Happinet-Phantom Studios , the film has become a long-running hit , striking a chord in a country with the world 's oldest population . <p> Represented abroad by Urban Sales , the film has been sold into more than 30 countries and territories . The film 's wide release in France is set for Sept. 7 , with Eurozoom distributing . Also , it will screen at the upcoming Toronto International Film Festival in the Contemporary World Cinema section . <p> Unusual for a Japanese film by a new director , " Plan 75 " is an international co-production , with Dongyu Club , Happinet-Phantom Studios , Loaded Films , Urban Factory , and WOWOW serving as production partners . <p> In a statement , Hayakawa said , " I feel that the film now belongs so much more to those who have seen it that it no longer feels like a film I directed . I am honored to receive this recognition . " <p> Brazil Selects ' Mars One ' ( EXCLUSIVE ) <p> Brazil will submit Gabriel Martins ' " Mars One " for consideration in the 2023 Oscars race for best international feature film , Variety has learned exclusively . Martins is the first Black director in Brazil 's history to be selected to represent the country at the Academy Awards . <p> Magnolia Pictures International holds worldwide distribution rights , but " Mars One " is still looking for a U.S. buyer . The film follows a Brazilian family navigating an uncertain future amid the rise of far-right leader Jair Bolsonaro . <p> Martins said in a statement : " We are experiencing a moment of major happiness , we feel so honored , for me personally , but also for my company Filmes de Pl ? stico , for the entire cast and crew and our partners , because we are opening doors and without a doubt leaving a stele of hope and willingness for those who are arriving now to make cinema , in a moment when they can be discredited until they can get to make a film . So , this selection is the result of the work of many people , and I believe that this is the most important feeling since ' Mars One ' is definitely not a film that walks alone , it is the work of many people who want this film to move forward and fly high . It 's what it represents for me , what the Brazilian cinema , the black cinema can be : a beautiful and resilient collective strength that never fails to dream with a better and brighter future . " <p> Brazil has been nominated at the Academy Awards four times , most recently in 1998 for Walter Salles ' " Central Station . " <p> " EO " shares a vision of modern Europe through the prism of a gray donkey , who meets a range of people on his life 's path , experiencing joy and pain , as well as disasters and unexpected bliss -- all without losing his innocence . The film shared a Jury Prize with F ? lix Van Groeningen and Charlotte Vandermeersch 's " The Eight Mountains " at this year 's Cannes Film Festival . <p> In his review at Cannes , where the film bowed in competition , Variety 's Peter Debruge described " EO " as " a damning polemic on our relationship to other intelligent species -- as free labor , food and companions -- as seen through the dewy , wide eyes of a donkey whom we come to adore . " <p> " EO " is presented by Skopia Film and filmmaker and HanWay Films founder Jeremy Thomas , who first collaborated with writer-director Skolimowski on the film " The Shout , " which won the Cannes Grand Prix in 1978 . <p> It stars Sandra Drzymalska , Lorenzo Zurzolo , Mateusz Kosciukiewicz and Isabelle Huppert . It was produced by Ewa Piaskowska and Skolimowski . Eileen Tasca is the Italian co-producer , while Thomas is the executive producer . The screenplay was written by Piaskowska and Skolimowski . <p> Sideshow and Janus Films , who acquired North American rights from HanWay , are planning a fall 2022 theatrical release . The distribution duo helped Ryusuke Hamaguchi 's best international feature Oscar winner " Drive My Car " to four Academy Award nominations earlier this year , including best picture , director and adapted screenplay . <p> Germany Selects ' All Quiet on the Western Front ' <p> Germany has entered Edward Berger 's " All Quiet on the Western Front " in the race for the 95th Oscars in the Best International Feature Film category . <p> The decision was made by an independent jury whose members were appointed by various associations working within the German film industry . Nine films were in the shortlist . <p> The film tells the story of a young German soldier on the Western Front of World War I. Paul and his comrades experience first-hand how the initial euphoria of war turns into desperation and fear as they fight for their lives , and each other , in the trenches . <p> It is adapted from the German anti-war novel of the same name , published in 1928 , which drew on Erich Maria Remarque 's own experiences in the trenches . <p> The film is produced by Amusement Park Film for Netflix . It will have its world premiere in the Special Presentations section at the Toronto Film Festival on Sept. 12 , and the European premiere will be held as a gala premiere during the Zurich Film Festival . <p> Netflix will partner with 24 Bilder for the film 's nationwide theatrical release in Germany on Sept. 29 . It will open in U.S. cinemas in October , and can be seen on Netflix from Oct. 28 . <p> The nine-member jury , headed by Maria Furtw ? ngler of the German Film Academy , commented : " The film is unsparing in its portrayal of the machinery and dehumanization of war through the material symbolism of bullet-ridden uniforms , trenches collapsing and shattered bodies . The violence of the events translates into powerful imagery from which there is no escape . <p> " The Iron Generation of the 1910s presents itself as the Lost Generation whose individual destinies mercilessly perish in teeming battle scenes . Edward Berger exposes with clarity how those vainglorious decision-makers detached from the real world display an arrogant vanity in sending the young soldiers into battle and sacrificing them without any feelings of conscience . The first German film adaptation of Erich Maria Remarque 's almost hundred-year-old novel is startlingly topical and makes a powerful statement against war . " <p> Canada Selects ' Eternal Spring ' <p> Jason Loftus ' animated , Mandarin-language documentary " Eternal Spring , " which had its world premiere in March 2022 at the Human Rights Watch Film Festival in London , has been selected to represent Canada in the competition to nab a coveted Best International Feature Film nomination for the 2023 Academy Awards . <p> The decision was announced Aug. 24 by Telefilm Canada , the chair and coordinator of the 22-member pan-Canadian selection committee , which includes reps from government film agencies and national industry associations . <p> At a media conference in advance of the public announcement , Loftus said that a major platform sale of the film , covering most English-language markets , will be announced soon , and that the film , which has many international broadcast partners , will see a theatrical release in several markets . <p> " The recognition that Canada is providing is a game changer before we get into the wide release , " said Loftus , a Peabody Award-winning filmmaker and four-time Canadian Screen Award nominee whose work spans docs , VR , games , and animation . <p> " Eternal Spring " had its North American premiere at Hot Docs in April 2022 , where it won the Rogers Audience Award for Best Canadian Documentary and claimed the top spot in the overall audience poll of cinemagoers and online doc-watchers . <p> The film , which also scooped awards and noms at European festivals , mixes 3D and new live footage to trace the story of comic-book illustrator Daxiong ( " Justice League , " " Star Wars " ) , a Falun Gong practitioner , who fled China after police began cracking down on members of the outlawed spiritual group . <p> At the media conference , Loftus , who was seated with his wife and filmmaking partner Masha Loftus , said they met Daxiong while making a kung fu video that featured hand-drawn artwork . <p> " We learned he was originally from China and was living in New York at the time , " Loftus said . " He worked with a sort of preeminent kung fu novelist in China and we just thought , this is great . He is an amazing , artistic talent and also the cultural background suited to working with us on this kung fu property . " <p> While working with him in Toronto on the project , the artist told them the story of why he left China . Turned out Daxiong was from the same hometown as Loftus ' wife and business partner , the daughter of a mid-level government official . <p> " She did n't have connections with the Falun Gong community , so hearing what had happened in her own hometown by someone who had endured this really hit home for her . And for me . " <p> While the jury is still out on whether the film will experience the same Oscar nomination hat-trick as " Flee , " the success to date of " Eternal Spring " illustrates how animation in documentary storytelling is having more than a moment . <p> " We had this opportunity to have animation and the artistic process be part of the story , " Loftus said at the media conference . " So that 's why we have this kind of blend of live-action and animation -- the art comes from an individual who has personally experienced trauma , who has left his home behind , who has this nostalgia , and who also colors his own art with the memories of torture and abuse . " <p> " This venture represents an exceptional opportunity for ' Eternal Spring ' to reach new audiences and offers a golden opportunity to showcase the high quality of Canadian filmmaking , " said Christa Dickenson , Telefilm executive director and CEO . " That is why Telefilm will be supporting the film team in this prestigious competition and we wish them the best of luck . " <p> " Eternal Spring " was written and directed by Jason Loftus , who produced the film with Masha Loftus , Yvan Pinard , and Kevin Koo . The film was edited by David Schmidt and lensed by John Trans , with animation by Alex Smith and Matthew Sousa . David St-Amant served as animation director . <p> The film is produced by Lofty Sky Entertainment and the international sales agent is Sideways Film . <p> Uruguay Submits ' The Employer and the Employee ' <p> Uruguay has submitted social thriller " The Employer and the Employee " by Manuel Nieto Zas as its official entry to the 95th Academy Awards in 2023 . Nieto Zas ' third film had its world premiere in last year 's Cannes Directors ' Fortnight before it went on to play in the San Sebastian Film Festival and other prominent festivals worldwide , including Guadalajara , Jerusalem , Beijing , Karlovy Vary and Mar del Plata . Madrid-based Latido Films picked up world sales rights ahead of the film 's debut in Cannes . <p> Featuring " Persian Lessons " and " BPM ( Beats Per Minute ) " star Nahuel P ? rez Biscayart , " The Employer and The Employee " ( " El Empleado y El Patr ? n " ) follows the parallel lives of an employer , Rodrigo ( P ? rez Biscayart ) , and an employee , Carlos ( Cristian Borges ) , the teenage son of a land laborer toiling on the vast estates of Rodrigo 's father . Desperate to find a qualified driver for one of his combine harvesters , Rodrigo hires Carlos despite the latter 's lack of experience or a license . This inevitably leads to an accident whose aftermath plays out through the rest of the film . <p> " The Employer and the Employee " won awards at Toulouse 's Latin Film Festival , Mar del Plata 's LoboLab and San Sebasti ? n 's WIP Latam , among others . <p> Lou Yi-An 's " Goddamned Asura " has been selected as Taiwan 's entry for best international feature film at the Academy Awards . <p> The decision to submit the social psychological drama into the Oscar race was announced by the Bureau of Audiovisual and Music Industry Development , part of Taiwan 's Ministry of Culture on Monday . <p> The film premiered at the Golden Horse Film Festival in November 2021 and picked up multiple awards at the Taipei Film Awards in June .. It had its commercial release in Taiwan in March this year . <p> The third film by Lou ( 2013 's " White Lies , Black Lies " and " A Place of One 's Own " ) presents a multi-layered narrative drama that delves into a random shooting by an ordinary teenager through six characters , a popular video game and an alternate reality . <p> The film was produced by Content Digital Film and Seashore Image Productions . Hope Marketing Entertainment is handling international Sales . <p> Lou 's previous work was known for his dark humor and the character-driven interleaving storyline in hisfilms . He is deeply interested in Taiwanese local culture , racial issues and social problems caused by class differences and generation gaps . He has said that " Goddamned Asura " was inspired by real events in Taiwan . <p> South Korea Submits ' Decision to Leave ' <p> South Korea has selected Park Chan-wook 's " Decision to Leave " as its national contender in the International Feature Film section of the Academy Awards . The film had its world premiere in competition at Cannes and earned Park the festival 's best director award . <p> Announcement of the decision was made on Thursday evening by the Korean Film Council ( KOFIC ) . <p> " All the films in the running had artistic merit , but when we took into consideration the particular characteristics of the Academy Awards , the film 's pure artistry , the director 's name recognition , workmanship and directing skill , the possibility of box office success in the North American market , and the ability of overseas distributors to promote , we agreed that " Decision to Leave " is the most appropriate choice , " said the KOFIC committee . " We look forward to the promoting this work . " <p> Starring Korea 's Park Hae-il and Chinese star Tang Wei , the film tells a slow-burn tale of police detective who starts out investigating the death of a man in the mountains , but falls for the mysterious charm of his not-very-grieving widow . <p> The film was released in Korean theaters on June 29 , 2022 , and remains in the top ten chart . As of Wednesday , it had grossed $14.2 million from 1.79 million spectators . <p> In North America , the film is scheduled to play at the Toronto festival in September and the New York Film Festival in October , ahead of a commercial release through Mubi , penciled in for Oct. 14 . <p> Korean films had never won in the Oscars foreign-language category until 2020 when " Parasite " claimed four Oscar wins including best film , best international feature film , achievement in directing for Bong Joon-ho and best original screenplay . Given the subsequent success of Korean-language film " Minari " and the attention drawn to Korean TV drama since the release of " Squid Game , " " Decision " stands out as an immediate front-runner . <p> Switzerland Submits ' A Piece of Sky ' <p> Switzerland has chosen Berlin competition title " A Piece of Sky " as its International Feature Film contender . <p> Honored with a special mention at Berlin , " A Piece of Sky " marks director Michael Koch'sfollow-up to his 2016 debut " Marija , " which marked him out as a talent-to-track . Set in a remote Alpine farming community , " A Piece of Sky " follows a taciturn farmhand , Marco ( Simon Wisler ) and a single mother , Anna ( Mich ? le Brand ) , who build a life together in the Alps . When Marco falls ill with a brain tumor everything changes , bu . Anna stands by Marco through thick and thin . <p> " A Piece of Sky " is produced by Hugofilm . New Europe Film Sales handles world sales . <p> " Michael Koch 's ' A Piece of Sky ' is marked by powerful images that are able to maintain the tension between the apparent simplicity and the great weight of the drama , " said the Swiss jury that selected the film . <p> " In this way , emotions develop their resonance and attain depth . Carried by strong amateur actors , the film surrenders to the rhythm of nature and regards its protagonists as part of the rugged mountain world . Their love not only stands up to the adverse circumstances , but also dares to question the inevitability of death , " added the jury , led by Swiss writer-director St ? phanie Chuat . <p> The 95th Oscar awards ceremony will take place on March 12 , 2023 . <p> Ireland Submits ' The Quiet Girl ' <p> The Irish Film and Television Academy ( IFTA ) has chosen Colm Bair ? ad 's Irish-Language film " The Quiet Girl " ( " An Cail ? n Ci ? in " ) as Ireland 's entry for the Oscars ' best international feature film category at the 95th Academy Awards . <p> Set in rural Ireland in 1981 , the coming-of-age film follows C ? it ( Catherine Clinch ) as she is sent from her overcrowded , dysfunctional household to live with distant relatives for the summer . It recently became the first Irish-language film to win the Irish Academy Award for best film and received seven awards including director , actress , cinematography , editing , production design and original score . <p> Moriarty said : " This is such a unique and beautiful film that captures your heart from the outset , and leaves you profoundly moved . How proud we are to submit this outstanding Irish language film into the Oscar competition , to compete with the best in the world , as we know this story will resonate with international audiences , beyond the borders of language , and no doubt with American Academy members too . " <p> Bair ? ad and producer Cleona N ? Chrualaoi of Insc ? al added : " We are honored beyond words that " An Cail ? n Ci ? in " / " The Quiet Girl " has been selected to represent Ireland . Our heartfelt thanks to IFTA and its selection committee . We have always believed in the idea that an Irish-language film could stand shoulder to shoulder with the best of world cinema and we feel so proud to be representing our country and our language in this way . It has been an extraordinary privilege adapting Claire Keegan 's ' Foster ' to the big screen and we ca n't wait to introduce our film to more and more members of the Academy as ' The Quiet Girl ' continues its roll-out on the international stage . " <p> " The Quiet Girl " was produced by N ? Chrualao ? as part of the Cine4 funding scheme for Irish-language film , in partnership with Screen Ireland , TG4 , and the Broadcasting Authority of Ireland , and the film is also in receipt of the Irish Government 's Section 481 tax incentive . <p> The international film contenders will next be shortlisted to 15 finalists on Dec. 21 . These will then be ultimately shortlisted to the final five Oscar nominees in the category on Jan. 24 , 2023 . The 95th Academy Awards ceremony is currently scheduled to take place on March 12 , 2023 at the Dolby Theatre in Hollywood . <p> Aerial footage released by the Lee County Sheriff 's Office on Friday , September 30 , shows the devastation in Fort Myers Beach after Hurricane Ian swept through the area.Officials continued to evacuate people from the area on Saturday , and said they did not expect services including water , power or cell service to be restored to the island soon . Credit : Lee County Sheriff 's Office via Storyful <p> SPOILER ALERT : Do not read if you have n't watched " The Lord of the Rings : The Rings of Power " Episode 6 , titled " Ud ? n , " now streaming on Amazon Prime Video . With three more episodes left in its inaugural season , " The Lord of the Rings : The Rings of Power " finally delivered the massive battle sequence for which fans ... <p> The company 's small payload Alpha rocket reached orbit successfully early on Saturday morning after taking of from Vandenberg Space Force Base in California . This is a major achievement for Firefly , which has been a lot to get here : The company originally began operations as Firefly Space Systems , which went bankrupt and was then reborn as Firefly Aerospace after its assets were acquired by Max Polyakov 's Noosphere ventures in 2017 . Tom Markusic , who founded the company and led it as CEO , also departed the post in June . <p> Police fired tear gas after violence broke out at an Indonesian soccer match in East Java province when Persebaya Surabaya beat Arema Malang 3-2 . January 13 , 1991 -- Forty-two people are killed when fans try to escape brawls at Oppenheimer Stadium in South Africa . <p> STORY : Meet Tesla 's eagerly anticipated humanoid robot ' Optimus'Elon Musk unveiled the prototype alongside videos of it doing simple taskslike watering plants , carrying boxes and lifting metal bars Location : PALO ALTO , CALIFORNIAMusk cautioned however it still had a way to go before becoming fully functionalMusk said current humanoid robots are ' missing a brain ' " They do n't have the intelligence to navigate the world by themselves and they 're also very expensive and made in low volume , whereas Optimus is designed to be an extremely capable robot but made in very high volume , probably ultimately millions of units and it 's expected to cost much less than a car . " The robots are expected to come with a price tag of under $20,000 <p> The U.S. Supreme Court 's nine justices are poised on Monday to open a new nine-month term packed with major cases including disputes centered on race that give members of its conservative majority fresh opportunities to flex their muscles , with an environmental case up first . The top U.S. judicial body annually kicks off its term on the first Monday of October , and the justices have important cases on the schedule right away . The court has a 6-3 conservative majority . <p> LEO Cortes used to be a cook for a hotel along Gorordo Ave . in Cebu City.But in the four months since Major Efren Diaz Jr . became chief of the Parian Police Station , his name always cropped up during investigations involving illegal drugs.This prompted Diaz to hatch a plan to capture the 32-year-old resident of L. Flores Street in Barangay Pasil.At Saturday dawn , Oct. 2 , 2022 , Cortes was arrested during a buy-bust on General Echavez St. in Barangay Lorega San Miguel by operatives of the Parian P <p> Japan 's Yoshihito Nishioka claimed his second career title after beating fourth seed Denis Shapovalov of Canada 6-4 , 7-6 ( 5 ) to win the Korean Open on Sunday . The 27-year-old Japanese , who beat top seed and world No.2 Casper Ruud in the quaterfinals , was impressive in defense and his counter-punching style eventually wore down his higher ranked opponent in just under two hours at the Seoul Olympic Park Tennis Center . The unseeded Nishioka , appearing in his second championship match this year after reaching the Washington final in August , started the brighter and found his rythym early to claim the first set . <p> Arsenal ensured they will end the weekend on top of the Premier League with a 3-1 victory over Tottenham Hotspur in the north London derby on Saturday but Liverpool 's problems continued as they drew 3-3 at home to Brighton &amp; Hove Albion . Graham Potter marked his first Premier League game in charge of Chelsea with a 2-1 victory at Crystal Palace thanks to a late winner by Conor Gallagher . <p> A strong and shallow earthquake shook Indonesia 's Sumatra island on Saturday , killing a resident , injuring 11 and damaging more than a a dozen houses and buildings , police said . A 62-year-old man died of a heart attack while fleeing to safety in Tarutung village , which is closest to the epicenter , said local police chief Johanson Sianturi . A footage released by the National Disaster Mitigation Agency showed several residents evacuating an injured person by a van to a hospital while panicked voices cried for help . <p> ON THE first day of the dry run of Oplan Disiplina on Saturday , October 1 , 2022 , the Cebu City Police Office ( CCPO ) did not make any arrests.According Lieutenant Colonel Wilbert Parilla , deputy director for administration of the CCPO , they only warned violators.He said they cautioned many people against smoking , spitting , going out shirtless and committing traffic violations , among others , while on patrol in different barangays in the morning.He said personnel from the Cebu City Traffic Office ; <p> THE Manila Chooks pulled off all the stops in the endgame to emerge victorious over Ludhiana INBL , 21-17 , in the qualifying draw of the Chooks-to-Go 3x3 Cebu Masters on Saturday afternoon at the SM Seaside City Cebu Mountain Wing.It was a close game with Manila Chooks ahead by just two , 17-15 . However , Ludhiana tied it all up at 17-all with a long two-pointer . Sensing trouble , Manila Chooks ' big man Henry Iloka took over , scoring on a slam dunk while getting fouled.With Ludhiana in the penalty s <p> MEMBERS of the Cebu City Disaster Risk Reduction Management Office 's Emergency Medical Services attend to a woman who was struck by a motorcycle along Katipunan Street in Barangay Tisay on Sunday morning , October 2 , 2022 . The victim , who has yet to be identified , was walking when the incident happened.The motorcycle was driven by Mark Delia , a resident of the barangay.He and his motorcycle were brought to the Labangon Police Station for record purposes . ( BBT , PJB ) 
@@94006579 <p> Democratic incumbent Attorney General Aaron Ford is facing two challengers for his seat as the state 's top cop . Republican Sigal Chattah and Libertarian John Kennedy are taking him on . <p> Kennedy could not be reached for this story . <p> The attorney general represents the state in court cases , works with state and local law enforcement and oversees programs regarding fraud and environmental protection . <p> Ford has held the job since 2018 and served in the state Senate starting in 2012 , including as the Democratic majority leader . Public safety and consumer protection are his top priorities in a re-election campaign , he said . <p> " Whether it 's the $30 million that my office has brought in under my administration for opioid abatement issues , or whether it 's the another $100 billion that we brought in for other settlements against unscrupulous corporations who have taken advantage of our residents ... these are issues that we need to have continued in this office , and I 'm the best person to do that , " Ford said . <p> " I think most folks in Nevada recognize that we need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and by having the support from not only Democrats but from Republicans , as well as independents , demonstrates that I 'm capable of putting in work to get bipartisan solutions to the very important issues that we face , " he told the Review-Journal . <p> Chattah first came to statewide prominence in 2020 when she filed multiple lawsuits against the state regarding pandemic restrictions . She claimed Gov . Steve Sisolak went too far by closing places of worship . A native of Israel , she moved to Las Vegas with her family at 14 years old . <p> " Growing up and seeing where this country 's going , I do n't like what I see , because I see the American Dream being chipped away , " Chattah said . <p> She was inspired to run for office to fight political and bureaucratic corruption , she said . <p> " If you 're John Doe moving from California and you want to open up your business , in many sectors , you 're not going to be able to because you just do n't have the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business up , " she said . " In order to get that access you need to play ball . Unfortunately , playing ball in Las Vegas historically means making sure that the right people are greased . " <p> Chattah said Ford has " wreaked havoc and created chaos in our state . " Specifically , Chattah called out bail reform and staffing shortages in district attorney offices as Ford 's faults . <p> In return , she wants to protect qualified immunity for law enforcement officers , get rid of so-called ' red flag laws ' which allow court orders to confiscate firearms from people who may be unstable and increase funding for mental health care in state prisons . <p> Her campaign has also been no stranger to scandal . Last year , a former political ally leaked a private text conversation with Chattah in which she attacked Ford with possibly racist language . She claims it was n't racially motivated . <p> " This guy should be hanging from a ( expletive ) crane , " she wrote of Ford , who is Black . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of money while the People in Gaza are starving . " <p> By continuing to browse or by clicking " I Accept Cookies " you agree to the storing of first-party and third-party cookies on your device and consent to the disclosure of your personal information to our third party service providers or advertising partners to optimize your experience , analyze traffic and personalize content . @ @ @ 's October Prime Day is on : Shop the 50+ best early deals <p> Amazon Prime Day 2022 is coming back.The Prime Early Access Sale will take place on October 11th and 12th . Get ready for some serious savings . ( Photo : Amazon ) <p> Amazon Prime Day is an unofficial holiday , where you and plenty of others can score rock-bottom prices on popular items . Following July 's Prime Day 2022 in July , there had been whispers that Amazon would launch another one this October . Well , those rumors were true : A second Amazon Prime Day , called the Prime Early Access Sale , will be happening on Tuesday , October 11 and Wednesday , October 12 , 2022 -- that 's next week ! <h> Indoor Pan/Tilt Smart Security Camera <h> Amazon Eero Pro mesh WiFi router <h> Apple 2021 4K TV <h> Outdoor Smart Plug <h> Smart Essential Oil Diffuser &amp; Humidifier <p> The Prime Early Access Sale will feature Lightning Deals -- those Prime Day -- famous sales that come and go in a flash -- among other big markdowns that will rival Black Friday 's . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they consider to be the season 's best gifts to help you shop the sale , and you can expect deals from top brands like Peloton , New Balance and Phillips Sonicare , iRobot , KitchenAid , Hasbro and more . <p> But you do n't have to wait till the Prime Early Access sale to score massive savings . Plenty of deals just dropped -- along with early shopping tools like a home holiday gift guide and a Toys We Love list -- and they 're impressive . Scroll for our picks , and also learn what to expect on Prime Day Early Access and our predictions for what the best deals will be . <h> What is Amazon Prime Day , again ? <p> Here 's a brief recap , in case you 're not familiar with it : Prime Day , which began eight years ago , is Amazon 's biggest shopping event for Prime members . This hugely popular sale features markdowns on thousands of products across a slew of categories -- tech , kitchen essentials , vacuums , apparel , beauty must-haves and so much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Amazon 's second Prime Day event for 2022 , called the Prime Early Access Sale , will take place on October 11th and 12th . Prime Day traditionally takes place in July , and the first Prime Day 2022 event was held on July 12th and 13th . <h> Does Prime Day have sales on everything ? <p> Not everything is on sale for Prime Day , but a lot is . This is usually the day when you 'll find huge discounts on top-rated brands and products you know and love . <h> Is Prime Day just at Amazon ? <p> Technically , Prime Day is just an Amazon thing . However , Walmart and other big retailers tend to run big sales at the same time to try to get in on some of the buying action . <h> What are the deals not to miss ? <p> No one knows yet which products will go on sale . But if history repeats itself , and we suspect it will , some of the best deals will be on Amazon Devices , like the Fire TV Stick 4K @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cans sync to your smartphone or laptop via Bluetooth and offer up to 40 hours of battery life on a single charge . This means you can enjoy your favorite songs and podcasts for nearly two days straight . Built-in microphones allow you to take and make calls , right from your headphones . <p> " The Beats Solo3 is absolutely the BEST headset I 've ever owned ! " a five-star reviewer raved . " I 've had many headsets over the years to do my job . Now that I 'm changing careers and moving into online teaching I need a headset that is of very high-quality sound with the ability to send and receive calls and to be wireless ... Beats Solo3 fits the bill . It is exceptionally comfortable to wear for many hours at a time . The battery life is phenomenal . " <p> This comprehensive whitening kit is by far the most popular teeth whitener on Amazon . It comes with 20 Professional Effects strips and two 1-hour Express strip treatments . Click the on-page coupon to get the discounted price . <h> @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by your bedside . Set alarms and timers , check your calendar or the news , make video calls and stream music or shows -- all with the sound of your voice . <p> With a five-inch display , the Alexa-enabled Echo Show 5 is perfect for a nightstand -- among its many talents , it 's also an alarm clock ! Amazon has a wide range of personalized clock faces to choose from , so you can bring a bit of personality to your space . <p> " So convenient , " wrote a five-star fan . " I check the time and the temperature , ask her to set reminders or a timer , ask her how long to cook something , etc . I 've also used her to send photos and make a video call to my nephew and his family . " <p> It can even be used as a digital photo frame when not in use , thanks to Amazon Photos . <p> Enjoy your favorite movies and shows in a more vivid and crisp picture than full HD . The set , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ movies , comes with a Fire TV Alexa voice remote , so you can flip through channels using the power of your voice . <p> With an 8 " HD screen and stereo sound , this genius gizmo can be used to call friends and family , send voice messages , stream music or shows and manage all your smart-home gear -- all with the sound of your voice . <p> Need a charge on the go ? Anker 's slender charger weighs just 0.26 pounds and still delivers the high-powered charging that Anker is known for . It can power up an iPhone twice before needing a recharge . <p> Shoppers say this speaker is just as good as a JBL or Bose speaks . And , not only does this bluetooth speaker generate great sound , it 's waterproof and has built-in lights . Clip the on-page coupon for the full discount . <p> This device is tricked out with great features , like an LED screen for crisp visuals . Dolby Vision HDR will also help your favorite shows and movies look good , too . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ <h> Home deals : <p> This bedding set has everything you need to lie back and luxuriate . You 'll get a flat sheet , a fitted sheet with pockets deep enough to accommodate 16 inches of mattress , and four pillowcases . <p> Mega-popular Danjor sheets are made from moisture-wicking microfiber to keep you comfortable all year long . What makes these sheets even more impressive is the price : Six-piece queen-size and king-size sets are on sale for just $13 right now . The sheets are super soft thanks to 1,800-thread count microfiber fabric , giving you a silky hotel-bed feel every time you slip between them . A nice perk : They 're moisture-resistant and cooling , just in case you tend to get a little warm in bed . <p> " These sheets are the best I 've ever bought , " a happy customer said . " I have been an insomniac since I was 11 years old . I never sleep more than two hours a night . I swear on all that I adore , my first night on these I slept for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that slight heaviness that 's just perfect . I just do n't want to get out of bed . I am seriously in heaven with these sheets , and that 's no joke . " <p> This pillow promises to never go flat , thanks to its shredded memory foam filling -- it even comes with extra filling so you can customize the firmness . And , as Amazon shoppers have attested en masse , it also stays cool . <p> This digital thermometer is a hit with Amazon shoppers , who swear by its ability to get a reading in a little as two seconds . It 's also waterproof and durable , so you do n't have to stress about butterfingers . <p> These fluffy pillows are packed with microfiber for a soft , cloud-like feel that conforms to your body . It 's swathed in a breathable cotton cover , so you do n't need to stress about turning into a sweaty beast overnight . Clip the on-page coupon for the full discount . <p> This smart vacuum has an app that lets you complete all your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ super-strong 2000Pa of suction power to lift up dirt , grime and debris that 's lurking on your floors . <p> Like soft pillows ? The Tempur-Pedic Symphony feels cushy to the touch while offering the support you need . There 's a gently arched side for back sleepers and a flatter side for stomach and side sleepers . <p> This best-selling towel set is a whopping 53% off . You 'll get two towels , two hand towels and two wash cloths , all made from super soft Turkish cotton . Choose from a range of colors -- most are on sale ! <p> Kick back and relax in this durable rocker . It 's made of polywood , so it wo n't chip or splinter over time . It 's also stain-resistant and cleans easily with soap and water . Choose from a wide range of colors . <p> This pressure washer is a beast that can quickly make short work out of just about any household cleaning job . It features 2,800 PSI ( pound per square inch ) of raw power , and it 's armed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ <p> This pretty V-neck dress is perfect for parties and work . Made of chiffon , it 's soft against your skin . Layer a denim jacket or blazer on top for cooler evenings . Choose from a range of colors . <p> This chic chiffon dress offers an effortless option for a fall night out or a Sunday funday . The overall loose silhouette keeps it comfortable while the gathered waist and wrists keep it stylish . The ruffle detail adds interest and a little extra flair to dress up this boho look . It 's also an affordable $34 , marked down from its regular price of $44.99 , for the Prime Early Access Sale . <p> Reviewers love the fit and feel of this dress . " Comfortable , perfect length and very flattering , " one said . <p> " Perfect dress , hides my flaws ( stomach ) , " another shared . She also noted that it 's the " perfect dress for any occasion . " <p> A good cardigan is a must for fall layering . This option from PrettyGarden has a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so you can fasten it or leave it loose . Choose from a slew of different colors . <p> The right ballet flat can take you anywhere , and this Naturalizer option is no exception . It features a soft , padded collar to prevent chafing and solid rubber sole to cushion you against the impact of walking . It 's also gorgeous . <p> Reviewers adore this serum for a multitude of reasons and many note its quick-working formula . " Within two days , my bumpy , dull , pore-ridden skin was looking smoother and brighter , " one shared in her review . " I have been using it faithfully day and night for the past few months now . " <p> Another shared that it 's the " most amazing vitamin C serum . " They said : " This magic serum has changed my skin . It is affordable and perfect for my skin . I have been using it for 10 months . I saw my skin was getting better from a week after using it . I am so impressed and happy with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blow dryer . It uses infrared heat to dry your hair faster and with less damage than the competition . Enjoy three heat and two speed settings , along with two attachments . <h> Sports and Fitness deals : <p> Want to work out while you work ? This under-desk elliptical lets you pedal while you type . You can even track your time , speed , calories and more with the digital monitor . And oh yeah : It 's $320 OFF ! <p> This is a great deal for the multitasker who wants to maximize their time . A seated elliptical machine , it fits perfectly underneath your desk so you can work out while you work . It 's currently a whopping 60% off , so you can enjoy huge savings even before the next Prime Day sale fully rolls out . <p> Reviewers love it for its effectiveness and also for the features included . " The quality of this product is very good . I have used it for two weeks without any problems , " one shared . " It 's very versatile . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has the option to ride forward or backward . I love that it has a screen showing time and calories burned . Most importantly , it 's lightweight and very easy to store . " <p> The UrbnFit exercise ball is a sizable 65 centimeters in diameter -- perfect for your pain relief needs -- and offers gym quality at home . It 's made from professional-grade , anti-burst PVC to help it last . 
@@90040360 <p> BBC Film boss Eva Yates has set out her new editorial team , with the BFI 's Kristin Irving joining as a commissioning executive , and Anu Henriques boarding as a development executive . <p> Meanwhile , Claudia Yusef has been named commissioning executive , expanding her responsibilities across development and production . <p> Irving was a senior production and development executive at the BFI 's Film Fund . She formerly worked in a number of development roles including for production company Portobello Pictures on films such as Pawel Pawlikowski 's Oscar-winning " Ida . " She also worked across sales at sister company , Fandango Portobello . At the BFI she has exec produced films including " Rye Lane , " " A Gaza Weekend " and " The Origin . " She joins BBC Film in November . <p> Meanwhile , Henriques was previously development associate at " Stan &amp; Ollie " and " Wild Rose " producer Fable Pictures , working across its film and TV slate . Prior to this she worked with Sarah Gavron as associate director on " Rocks . " Henriques is the founder and co-director of Skin Deep , an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and creatives of colour to work towards justice through cultural production . She is also the co-director of We Are Bridge , an organization set up to ensure the sustained legacy of new and emerging talent within the film and TV industry . She also joins BBC Film in November . <p> Elsewhere , Yusef joined BBC Film as head of development in January 2019 . She previously worked at Number 9 Films , and before that as a talent executive at the Scottish Film Network , part of BFI Network . She also worked as Development Executive at 42 Management and Production . At BBC Film , she executive produced " Ali &amp; Ava " and Mahalia Belo 's forthcoming debut feature , " The End We Start From . " <p> Yates said : " Since taking the reins at BBC Film my priority has been building an outstanding creative team to ensure our filmmakers enjoy the most thoughtful , rigorous and dynamic support available . I could n't be happier to announce Claudia 's expanded role and the appointments today of Kristin and Anu , all of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passionate multi-disciplinary team dedicated to supporting and uplifting world class filmmakers -- we 're excited to welcome them on board . " 
@@94251678 <h> Australia drops recognition of Jerusalem as Israel 's capital <p> Australia has reversed a previous government 's recognition of west Jerusalem as Israel 's capital <p> ByROD McGUIRK Associated Press <p> October 18 , 2022 , 5:57 AM <p> 3:07 <p> Australian Foreign Minister Penny Wong , left , and Australian Prime Minister Anthony Albanese smile during a meeting with Prime Minister of Singapore Lee Hsien Loong during a meeting at Parliament House in Canberra , Tuesday , Oct. 18 , 2022 . Lee is on a 2-day visit to Canberra . ( Lukas Coch/Pool via AP ) <p> The Associated Press <p> CANBERRA , Australia -- Australia has reversed a previous government 's recognition of west Jerusalem as Israel 's capital , the foreign minister said Tuesday , prompting consternation from Israel . <p> The center-left Labor Party government agreed to again recognize Tel Aviv as the capital . The Cabinet also reaffirmed that Jerusalem 's status must be resolved in peace negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians , Foreign Minister Penny Wong said . <p> Australia remained committed to a two-party solution to the conflict between Israelis and Palestinians , and " we will not support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . <p> " Jerusalem is the eternal undivided capital of Israel and nothing will change that , " Lapid said in a statement . <p> Wong said her department made an error by updating its website on Australia 's revised policy on Israel 's capital before Cabinet had confirmed the change . <p> This led to conflicting media reports on Australia 's position before Wong 's announcement . <p> Lapid appeared to blame this media confusion for Australia changing its policy . <p> " In light of the way the decision was made in Australia , as a hasty response to a mistaken report in the media , one can only hope in other issues the government of Australia behaves more seriously and professionally , " Lapid said . <p> Israel 's Foreign Ministry said it will summon the Australian ambassador to express " deep disappointment " over a decision that was " based on short-sighted political considerations . " <p> Senior Palestinian official Hussein Al-Sheikh said he welcomed Australia 's decision " and its affirmation that the future of sovereignty over Jerusalem depends on the permanent solution based on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Morrison formally recognized west Jerusalem as Israel 's capital in December 2018 , although the Australian Embassy remained in Tel Aviv . <p> The change followed then-U.S . President Donald Trump 's decision to move the U.S. Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem . President Joe Biden has kept the embassy in Jerusalem as the U.S. steps back from its once-intense mediation between the Israelis and Palestinians , who have not held substantive peace talks in more than a decade . <p> Wong described Morrison 's move as out of step internationally and a " cynical play " to win a byelection in a Sydney locale with a large Jewish population . <p> Morrison 's Liberal Party ran Jewish candidate Dave Sharma who was defeated in the byelection but won the seat in the next general election . <p> Morrison 's government was elected out of office in May after nine years in power . <p> Nasser Mashni , vice president of the human rights group Australia Palestine Advocacy Network , thanked the government for " differentiating itself from the dangerous political posturing of the previous government . " <p> @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ -- Australia must not pre-empt the final status of Jerusalem , " Mashni said in a statement . <p> " Israel asserts that the entire city is exclusively theirs , denying Palestinian connection to their ancient spiritual , cultural and economic capital , " Mashni added . <p> The Executive Council of Australian Jewry , which represents Australia 's Jewish community , branded the reversal a " gratuitous insult to a key economic and strategic ally . " <p> " This decision panders to the most extreme elements of the Labor Party and will also serve as a disincentive for the Palestinians to return to negotiations , " the council said in a statement . <p> Morrison , who remains an opposition lawmaker , said the government 's decision was disappointing . <p> The decision " represents a further diminution in Australia 's support for the state of Israel by the Labor government from the high water mark established by the Morrison government , " his office said in a statement . <p> But opposition leader Peter Dutton left the door open to the conservatives abandoning Morrison 's policy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the run-up to the next election , " Dutton told reporters . The next election is due in 2025 . <p> Opposition foreign affairs spokesperson Simon Birmingham described the change as a " completely unnecessary decision " that followed a " shambolic process . " <p> In the 1967 Mideast war , Israel captured east Jerusalem , home to holy sites of three faiths , along with the West Bank and the Gaza Strip . The Palestinians seek east Jerusalem as the capital of a future state . The status of Jerusalem remains one of the thorniest issues in the decadeslong conflict and has precipitated numerous rounds of violence . <p> Only a handful of countries , including Kosovo and Guatemala , have joined the U.S. in recognizing Jerusalem as Israel 's capital . 
@@90084378 <h> Former Register and international war photographer John Gaps III dies at 63 <p> Trailblazing international war photojournalist and longtime Iowan John Gaps III died this week at age 63 , his family confirmed to the Register on Tuesday . <p> Gaps ' decades-long career took him around the world to cover some of the globe 's most historic events . <p> He first discovered his passion for photojournalism as a student at Iowa State University , according to his son Ethan Gaps . Beginning his career at the Omaha World-Herald , John Gaps later worked as a photographer for the Associated Press and Des Moines Register . <p> His former AP colleague Brian Horton described Gaps as a trailblazer in the field who was one of the earliest photographers to adopt digital cameras . He was a " larger than life figure " who commanded every room he entered , Horton said , and his ingenuity and dedication to his craft continue to influence photojournalists today . <p> " John was the kind of person that you could count on to come back with a picture , and it would be a good picture , and that 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ <p> Gaps ' career with the AP took him around the world to bear witness to the fall of the Berlin Wall and to Princess Diana 's funeral . He covered at least three Olympics , according to his son , and many conflicts , including those in Nicaragua , Saudi Arabia , Kosovo , Somalia and Israel . <p> " There literally was not a big story where John was n't there , " Horton said . <p> In 1994 , John Gaps was shot in the knee by an Israeli soldier while he was covering conflicts in the Gaza Strip . His son said his father faced many close brushes with death throughout his career , but he was never deterred . <p> He described his father as fearless and deeply motivated to document historic and often tragic events , even if it meant putting his own life in danger . <p> " He wanted to give a voice to the people who did n't have a voice , " Ethan Gaps said . <p> Ethan Gaps said his father could spend hours recounting stories of his travels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were not the events he attended , but rather the people he met along the way , from residents fighting to protect themselves and their families to the guides who helped save his life and keep him safe while abroad , his son said . <p> " He saw a lot for one guy . And he carried a lot of that pain with him until the end , " Ethan Gaps said . <p> Following his career with the AP , John Gaps worked as a photojournalist with the Des Moines Register beginning in 2000 until his retirement in 2011 , Ethan Gaps said . <p> While at the Register , John Gaps also served as director of community publications . <p> Carol Hunter , executive editor of the Des Moines Register , said " he plunged into telling community stories with the same zeal as he pursued iconic images seen on front pages around the world . " <p> " The truth is that he relished seeking out and telling stories , period , whether big or small , whether with his camera or through text or later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ John Gaps spent the remainder of his career working as a fine arts photographer and running Madhaus Gallery in Winterset . <p> Despite his globe-trotting career , his AP colleague Horton described him as someone devoted to his hometown . <p> " The funny thing was that John was the first to call when something would happen and say , ' I 'm ready to go . ' But he also loved to go back to Des Moines , " Horton said . " To me , that made him a little bit different . When journalists enjoyed the success that John had , they do n't think of home very much , and John did . " <p> John Gaps is survived by his four children , John Henry Gaps , Ethan Gaps , Sarah Gaps Bonsall and Emilia Gaps . The family has not yet released information regarding funeral or memorial services . <p> Francesca Block is a breaking news reporter at the Des Moines Register . Reach her at FBlock@registermedia.com 
@@94322564 <p> " I was asked about that recently , " he said when asked if Israel should join many of the world 's military powers in arming Ukraine to fight Russian invaders . <p> " I said I 'll look into it when I got into office . " <p> Netanyahu did not speak further about the possibility of Ukraine receiving Israeli arms should he return to power , but he did indicate a willingness to serve as mediator . <p> " If I become prime minister , that question of mediation presumably will come up again , " he claimed . <p> An Israeli Iron Dome battery fires on a rocket launched from the Gaza Strip in August this year.AFP via Getty Images <p> Though the Ukrainian military has been receiving high-end weaponry from several allied nations , including the US and other NATO bloc countries , Kyiv has had its eye on an Israeli specialty -- rocket and missile defense systems . <p> Ukrainian leaders formally requested at least two Israeli air defense systems from Jerusalem this week , according to a Haaretz report -- the medium-range Barak interceptors and the short-range missile defense system known as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has stepped up its attacks on Ukraine 's civilian infrastructure , repeatedly bombarding Ukrainian cities and power plants with Iranian-made Shahed suicide drones and repurposed Soviet-era anti-aircraft missiles . <p> Israel has repeatedly denied any requests to send Ukraine weapons , however , fearing an escalation with Russia and its proxy forces in Syria , where Israel is engaged in its own campaign of airstrikes against Iranian forces . <p> Dmitry Medvedev , deputy chair of Russia 's security council , said this week that any arms deal between Israel and Ukraine would be " a very rash move " and would " destroy " diplomatic relations between Moscow and Jerusalem . <p> Currently , only the US and Israel possess Iron Dome systems , with the vast majority in Israeli hands . <p> Netanyahu is hoping to return to power in a November election.Getty Images <p> The Barak interceptor system is also fielded by India , which relies on Moscow for much of its weaponry , and Azerbaijan , which borders Russia and is unlikely to risk escalation by giving Baraks to Kyiv . <p> Netanyahu said he felt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ motivated by Russian President Vladimir Putin 's " vision of reconstituting a great Russian realm . " <p> " I hope he 's having second thoughts about it , " the former prime minister added . <p> " But I do n't want to play psychologist , " he continued . " I want to be in the position of being prime minister , getting all the information , then making decisions on what and if we do anything in this conflict beyond what has been done so far . " <p> Netanyahu -- who is on trial facing corruption charges -- has a slight edge in polls over current PM Yair Lapid . Neither man 's coalition is thought to yet have the majority required by Israeli law , however . Should neither side gain a majority , Lapid will remain in power until another election can be scheduled . 
@@90120071 <h> Israeli minister signals defense ties ' restart with Turkey <p> 1of3In this handout photo provided by the Turkish Defense Ministry , Turkish Defense Minister Hulusi Akar , right , and Israel 's Defense Minister Benny Gantz shake hands during a welcome ceremony in Ankara , Turkey , Thursday , Oct. 27 , 2022 . Gantz met with his Turkish counterpart on Thursday , making the first visit by a top Israeli defense official to Turkey in more than a decade , as the two countries take steps to normalize their strained ties . ( Turkish Defense Ministry via AP ) APShow MoreShow Less2of3In this handout photo provided by the Turkish Defense Ministry , Turkish Defense Minister Hulusi Akar , right , and Israel 's Defense Minister Benny Gantz shake hands during a welcome ceremony in Ankara , Turkey , Thursday , Oct. 27 , 2022 . Gantz met with his Turkish counterpart on Thursday , making the first visit by a top Israeli defense official to Turkey in more than a decade , as the two countries take steps to normalize their strained ties . ( Turkish Defense Ministry via AP ) APShow MoreShow Less <p> 3of3 <p> @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minister on Thursday signaled a possible resumption of defense ties with Turkey as the two nations take steps to normalize their strained relationship . <p> Israeli Defense Minister Benny Gantz said after a meeting with his Turkish counterpart Hulusi Akar in the Turkish capital Ankara , that he instructed his staff " to begin the procedures required in order to resume working relations . " <p> " It is no secret that our ties have faced challenges , " said Gantz , who became the first top defense official from his country to visit Turkey in more than a decade . <p> " Moving forward , we must adopt a steady , positive approach in our relations -- maintaining open dialogue , " he said . <p> Turkey and Israel were once close regional allies with broad defense ties , but the relationship became more and more strained under Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan 's rule . The Turkish leader has been an outspoken critic of Israel 's policies toward Palestinians , while Israel objected to Turkey 's ties to the Palestinian militant group Hamas , which rules the Gaza @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces stormed a Gaza-bound flotilla carrying humanitarian aid for Palestinians that broke an Israeli blockade . The incident resulted in the deaths of nine Turkish activists , and the countries withdrew their respective ambassadors . <p> Following an attempt at mending ties , Turkey again recalled its ambassador in 2018 after the United States moved its embassy in Israel to Jerusalem . <p> Relations began to thaw after the departure of former Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . <p> Israeli President Isaac Herzog paid a state visit to Turkey in March , followed by Prime Minister Yair Lapid -- who was foreign minister at the time -- in June . Last month , Erdogan and Lapid met on the sidelines of the annual U.N . General Assembly meeting in New York . <p> Turkey and Israeli recently agreed to reappoint their respective ambassadors . <p> Akar said after meeting Gantz that increased cooperation and dialogue with Israel would also help the resolution of disagreements , including the issue of the Palestinians . <p> " The development of our relationship and cooperation with Israel , especially in areas such as defense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in regional peace and stability , " he said . <h> Top Picks In Shopping <p> Turkey and Israel were once close defense partners . Defense pacts signed in the mid-1990s allowed Israeli air force pilots to train over Turkey 's airspace . Israel upgraded Turkish military tanks and jets , and supplied drones and other high-tech equipment . <p> The countries still share various strategic interests , including containing Iran . <p> Israel recently thanked Turkey for intelligence cooperation against Iranian attempts to carry out attacks in Turkey . <p> " This year , as a result of close , covert contact , we succeeded in removing an alarming number of threats against Israeli citizens and Jewish people in Turkey , " Gantz said . " We are thankful to President Erdogan , Minister Akar and the security agencies involved in this crucial , life-saving cooperation . " <p> The minister continued : " I believe a lot more can be done together in order to reduce the influence of those who destabilize our regions , by supporting or conducting terrorism against innocent civilians . " 
@@94529978 <h> Palestinian Israelis are divided and disillusioned as election nears <p> A campaign billboard of the Palestinian Israeli lawmaker Mansour Abbas , the head of the Raam party , is seen on a busy road in Haifa , Israel , on Oct. 12 . ( Ronen Zvulun/Reuters ) <p> Listen <p> Comment <p> Gift Article <p> Share <p> LOD , Israel -- In Israel 's last election , just a year and a half ago , Anwar Sawalhi cast his ballot for the Arab Islamist party Raam . Its leader , Mansour Abbas , went on to make an unprecedented gamble : taking Raam into Israel 's governing coalition , a first for an Arab party . <p> In Sawalhi 's view , the bet did not pay off . The 52-year-old father of four has seen little improvement in the lives of Palestinian citizens inthis mixed Arab-Jewish town . This time around , he 's voting for the left-wing nationalist Balad party , which pollsters say has little chance of surpassing the threshold required to enter the Knesset , Israel 's 120-member parliament . <p> On the eve of the election , disillusionment reigns among Israel'sPalestinian citizens , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ -- even with an Arab party in the government . <p> Advertisement <p> In a razor-thin contest between political camps divided over their stance toward former prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu , who is angling to return to office , every seat counts . The Palestinian vote could prove decisive . <p> Israel has roughly 2 million Palestinian citizens , many of whom are descended from families that remained in Israel after the country 's creation in 1948 , when many Palestinians fled or were expelled . Although they hold Israeli citizenship , they face bigotry from many of their Jewish compatriots and marginalization by the state . <p> Palestinian Israelisare divided over whether to cast a ballot at all . Those who plan to vote Tuesday face a more fragmented Arab political landscape -- " the exact opposite dynamic of what the Arab public wanted , " according to political analyst Mohammad Darawshe . <p> Before the last election , Abbas 's Raam party broke off from the Joint List , the Arab umbrella party that won 15 seats in the Knesset in 2020 . This year , there are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the communist Hadash party and the secular nationalist Ta'al party ; and Balad . Recent polls predict they will get a combined eight seats . <p> Sami Jariri , 40 , the owner of a hookah shop in Lod , has sworn off voting entirely . His father cast a ballot for Raam in the last election , Jariri said , whenthe moderate Islamist party joined a diverse coalition united by opposition to Netanyahu . But having an Arab party in government -- and , since July , a center-left prime minister , Yair Lapid -- has not ledto safer neighborhoods , he said . <p> Advertisement <p> " Before , we cared about who is going to be the prime minister , " he said , sitting behind the counter and puffing on a water pipe . " Now , my only concern is who is going to protect Lod . " <p> The city 's Palestinian neighborhoods have grown more dangerous , he said , and politicians have ignored the problem . Nearly 130 Arabs died in crime-related killings in Israel in 2021 , according to the Abraham @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friends and a 21-year-old cousin to the violent crime wave . He mounted a CCTV camera on his house . But when a man was shot dead in front of his home , Jariri said , the police did not ask to see the footage . <p> " People get killed here left and right , and nobody cares , " he said . " One Jewish person gets killed in the same circumstances and the whole of Israel gets turned upside down . " <p> Advertisement <p> Concerned about the safety of their sons , ages 11 and 18 , Jariri and his wife are considering moving to Turkey . <p> A lack of jobs and opportunities for young Palestinian residents has prompted some to turn to crime , Jariri said . Lod also experienced an outbreak of communal violence during the Israel-Gaza war in May 2021 , when several people were shot in clashes among Palestinian residents , far-right Jews and police . <p> About 70 percent of Lod 's nearly 80,000 residents are Jewish , and Jewish nationalists have moved into Arab neighborhoods in recent years to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sawalhi said , racism has intensified . <p> " Before , if you wanted to buy an apartment from a Jewish guy , you could , " he said . " Now , he will tell you frankly , ' I will not sell to Arabs . ' " <p> Sawalhi says he will vote for Balad on Tuesday because he sees the party 's leader , Sami Abu Shehadeh , as someone who " can fight racism . " Ahmad Hassouna , 49 , sitting across from Sawalhi at a horse training center in Lod , agrees . " What 's good about Sami Abu Shehadeh is he asks for coexistence and equality , " Hassouna said . " It 's not too much to ask ; these are our rights . " <p> Advertisement <p> The disillusionment is magnified by Israel 's ongoing security crackdown in the occupiedWest Bank , where many people here still have relatives and where clashes between Israeli security forces and Palestinians have escalated in recent months . So far , 2022 has been the deadliest year for Palestinians in the West Bank in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation isfueling a sense that Lapid 's " change government " has brought more of the same . <p> Many Palestinian Israelis have grown frustrated with Jewish center-left parties , traditionally seen as their natural political partners , Darawshe said , a circumstance that is likely to depress Palestinian turnout . <p> Sill , Hassouna said , it is important for Palestinian Israelis to play the political game and to partner with Jewish parties to foil the rise of the far right . <p> Advertisement <p> " It 's in our best interest not to have a right-wing government . We do n't want to see Ben Gvir as the interior minister -- he hates us Arabs , " Hassouna said , referring to Itamar Ben Gvir , an extreme right-wing , Jewish nationalist politician who is allied with Netanyahu and is surging in the polls . Ben Gvir has advocated for expelling " disloyal " Palestinian citizens from Israel . <p> But many Palestinian voters are focused instead on which Arab politicians can best deliver tangible improvements to roads , schools and housing . <p> Zaher Hamad , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ standards have deteriorated in her community and that people think political leaders are out of touch . Still , she 's encouraging her fellow Palestinian citizens to vote . <p> " The most important issue in Jaffa is the housing problem ; it 's very difficult , " she said . Hamad plans to vote for Shehadeh , whom she knows personally . " Anything you need , he will do his best to help you , " she said . <p> Shehadeh 's party has climbed slightly in the polls but remains below the 3.25 percent of the vote required to win a seat in the Knesset . The Joint List and Raam , meanwhile , are projected to win four seats each . <p> Advertisement <p> Shehadeh told The Washington Post on Friday that he thought his party would pass the threshold and that Arab turnout would be strong . <p> " Maybe a month ago , I would have been much more worried , but it seems to be that the competition between the three different parties has raised the voting , " he said . <p> @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to substantiate that view , indicating that just over 50 percent of Israel 's Palestinian citizens are " certain " they will vote , compared with earlier polls ' findings that turnout would be closer to 40 percent . Arab turnout in the last election was just under 45 percent . <p> But , depending on how the election math shakes out , there 's a real possibility that Israel could go from having an Arab party in the government to having no Arab representation at allin the Knesset . <p> " I think we 're at the edge of a very negative earthquake in Arab politics , " Darawshe said . <p> Sufian Taha contributed to this report . <p> Loading ... <p> TOP STORIES <p> Going Global <p> Essential reporting and analysis from correspondents around the world . 
