<h> Our journalists are more geographically spread across America this cycle . Here 's how they 're voting , and their predictions for who will win . <p> Slate has never officially endorsed a candidate for president . But we have , since 2000 , revealed whom Slate staff members are voting for . This year is no different , and the outcome wo n't be a surprise if you are even a passing Slate reader : Slate is overwhelmingly ( but not entirely ! ) voting for Kamala Harris . <p> It 's a different world than when we did this last in 2020 ( and 2016 , 2012 , not to mention 2000 ) . Four years ago we were still deep in the pandemic , locked down , working from home , and home-schooling . People had started to move around the country , whether to be closer to family for child care , or to more affordable areas , or even to more desirable ones . This ended up being good for lots of people and for Slate ; our staff is more geographically dispersed than ever before , which means we have perspectives from across the country in our coverage . The lives lived that inform our votes -- and what they are voting for , down the ballot -- are quite a bit more varied than before . Slate editorial folks currently reside in Texas , California , Illinois , New York ( City and upstate ) , Virginia , New Jersey , Massachusetts , Maryland , Pennsylvania , Florida , D.C. , Colorado , Maine , Michigan , Wisconsin , Ohio , Utah , and , soon , New Hampshire . We may not have a Trump voter in our mix , but we do have the perspectives of folks who live in reddish areas . More important : We can hire the best folks for Slate , no matter where they put down roots . This is good . <p> We could have decided to officially endorse Harris this year . But there would n't be much of a point . First , given that we write with perspective , voice , and opinion , our feelings about the candidates are already crystal clear ( especially when it comes to Trump , who has been present in presidential politics for a decade ) . Two , consensus in the wake of the mess at the Washington Post seems to be that endorsements do n't meaningfully matter in terms of election outcomes . I believe we all knew that , but what an endorsement has allowed mainstream publications to do is make a case not just for candidates but for values ; an endorsement for Harris signaled a belief in fact and in democracy , not to mention highlighting the important connection between journalism and those two fundamentals . It is not partisan to admit that . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> At any rate , because we had a sense of where we 'd land on the top race , we asked two new questions of staff who voluntarily shared this year : who they think will win the election and why , and whether there 's a ballot initiative or down-ballot race where they live that is motivating them . With this project we strive to be transparent . We 're showing you who we are , and who makes Slate , well , Slate . -- Hillary Frey , editor in chief <p> Shirin Ali , associate writerWho you are voting for this year : Kamala HarrisWhy : The possibility of a second Donald Trump presidency terrifies me ! I 'm worried women will lose access to birth control and technology like IVF could be severely restricted . I 'm also scared of how Trump will inevitably corrupt the processes of the federal government , which may never be reversed . At the same time , I 'm excited to see a woman of color at the top of the ticket and I want to support that.Who do you think will win this election ? Donald TrumpWhy : Kamala Harris ' campaign has felt underwhelming and I do n't think she 's been successful at creating a compelling or specific pitch to voters . There 's also the issue of the Gaza war , which she has not really touched in a meaningful way , that I think will come back to bite her , particularly in swing states . Ultimately , my guess is that Harris has n't made a strong enough case for why people should vote for her , and they 'll stick to Trump or go third-party.What is one down-ballot item you are voting on that you think is particularly important : In New York , I 'm voting on Ballot Proposal 1 , which would enshrine a ban on discriminating against ethnicity , origin , age , disability , sex , and pregnancy in the state 's constitution . It also would ban discrimination against New Yorkers who seek access to reproductive health care . Given the threat of another Donald Trump presidency and the fact that there are no federal protections for abortion , I feel enshrining women 's right to health care at the state level is the only avenue left . Plus , protecting minorities in the divisive state of this country is also incredibly important . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Holly Allen , designerWho you are voting for this year : Kamala HarrisWhy : Health care rights , women 's rights , human rights , and to restore decency and sanity.Who do you think will win this election : Total coin flip.Why : With just days to go , neither candidate is emerging as the clear winner . <p> Rosemary Belson , associate podcast producerWho you are voting for this year : Kamala HarrisWhy : Honestly , there are almost too many reasons to list . But reproductive rights and civil rights are two of the strongest motivators besides , you know , ensuring the ability to vote in future elections.Who do you think will win this election : Kamala HarrisWhy : Here in Wisconsin there are a lot more Harris/Walz signs now than there were Biden/Harris signs in 2020 . Do n't get me wrong -- there are still a lot of Trump/Vance signs . But there do n't appear to be as many , even in Waukesha County.What is one down-ballot item you are voting on that you think is particularly important : I 'm particularly paying attention to the Senate race in Wisconsin : Tammy Baldwin vs . Eric Hovde . <p> Advertisement <p> Jeffrey Bloomer , editorial directorWho you are voting for this year : Already voted for HarrisWhy : Uncomplicated vote for me -- she is competent , experienced , and broadly supports the type of government I want to see.Who do you think will win this election ? I 've had a sinking feeling for Trump for a few weeks . Currently experiencing perverse optimism this country is finally tired of him . What is one down-ballot item you are voting on that you think is particularly important : I 'm very , very tired of Democrats ( even and especially in New York ! ) running essentially right-wing ads on the border and immigration . Everyone I know in politics calls these necessary to assuage " independents " and tells me to ignore them . I think they will leave lasting damage . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Christina Cauterucci , senior writer Who you are voting for this year : Kamala HarrisWhy : Donald Trump has encouraged and empowered the worst impulses and people among us . I also believe that the struggle to protect democracy from encroaching authoritarianism is the most important fight of our time.Who do you think will win this election ? Kamala HarrisWhy : I think she stands a very slight chance of winning , mostly because I doubt that the infrequent ( " unlikely " ) voters Trump relies on will be as highly motivated to turn out for him a third time around.What is one down-ballot item you are voting on that you think is particularly important : Initiative 83 in D.C. , which will bring ranked-choice voting to the District . It 's a solidly democratic way to make sure people 's preferences are accurately reflected in races with more than two candidates . And , D.C. has 345 Advisory Neighborhood Commissioners , each serving as an elected advocate for about 2,000 of their neighbors . They do n't make policy , but their recommendations carry weight with city agencies making decisions about zoning , public space , transportation , etc . It just so happens that Slate 's own Mark Joseph Stern lives in my neighborhood , and his husband is running to be our commissioner ! It was a great pleasure to cast my vote for Tyler , who has already managed to secure street-safety improvements in the accident-prone intersection in front of his own home . I ca n't wait to be a constant , annoying presence in his inbox if ( when ! ) he wins . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Paola de Varona , senior editorWho you are voting for this year : Kamala HarrisWhy : I 'm choosing to put my vote where I think I can do the most good : I want someone in office who will try to do something about the abortion bans killing women , the climate emergency that is already ravaging our towns , and the affordable housing crisis . And you know , I do n't want a man accused of sexual assault and who is a well-known racist ( and surrounds himself with them ) as the president of my country.Who do you think will win this election ? Kamala HarrisWhy : I 'm optimistic that a majority of people who lived through 2016 -- 2020 will remember what a Trump presidency was like . The horrors I 've seen reported out of Palestine , and co-signed by a Biden administration , will stay with me for life . But if there 's one thing Trump taught us during that time , it was : There is always room for him to go lower than you could have ever imagined . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Robin Dickerhoof , copy editor Who you are voting for this year : Kamala HarrisWhy : Lots of reasons , but mostly : Fascism is on the ballot.Who do you think will win this election ? Kamala HarrisWhy : I can not for one second mentally entertain the option that Donald Trump will win . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Cameron Drews , podcast producerWho you are voting for this year : Kamala HarrisWhy : My vote is definitely not a full-throated endorsement of Harris and the Dems , who continue to support brutal attacks on civilians in Gaza and Lebanon . Harris ' comments on the matter have been cowardly and embarrassing . But there 's a lot at stake here . Trump 's mass deportations would be horrifying , for one thing . We can not risk another term of chaos . We also can not risk more Trump-appointed judges.Who do you think will win this election ? Donald TrumpWhy : I worry that the Dems are no match for Trump 's lies and racist scapegoating . He once again has convinced a huge swath of voters that immigrants are the biggest barrier to prosperity , even though they obviously are n't . The Dems meanwhile have tried to keep up by shifting right , but they 'll never beat Trump at that game . They 'll just keep alienating reasonable people who would be happy to show up for them if they had stronger progressive principles , better messaging , and convincing plans of action.What is one down-ballot item you are voting on that you think is particularly important : In New York , we get to vote on an equal rights amendment that will hopefully enshrine some important protections into state law . So I 'll vote YES on that . We also have a bunch of proposals that I will vote NO on . They are basically power grabs by Mayor Adams , and the language on the ballot is intentionally misleading to voters . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Madeline Ducharme , podcast producerWho you are voting for this year : I opted not to vote in the presidential election and only vote on the local issues and candidates on my D.C. ballot.Why : I would be answering all this differently if I lived in a swing state and my vote actually had an impact on where some electoral votes would land . But I do n't live in a swing state and in 2020 , 92.1 percent of votes here went for Biden . The reason I am not voting for Kamala Harris is Gaza . In the three months since she became the nominee , she has shown again and again that there is no daylight between her approach to this horrific carnage and Biden 's , even when prompted again and again by activists , reporters , and American family members of the deceased in Gaza , the West Bank , and Lebanon . Because I already know that D.C. 's three electoral votes are going to Harris anyway , it felt like an extremely affirmative act to cast my vote for her . As a queer American , a journalist , and someone hoping for a progressive future , I absolutely do not want Trump to win . At the same time , my Arab grandfather was born in Jerusalem before 1948 . He was dispossessed and stateless for many years . Though he passed away in 2020 , I 've been thinking of him nonstop throughout the last year . I just ca n't bring myself to cosign so much slaughter and destruction.Who do you think will win this election ? Kamala HarrisWhy : Trump hit his ceiling of support years ago , abortion is a top issue for so many Americans , and her ascending to the top of the ticket energized so many Democrats.What is one down-ballot item you are voting on that you think is particularly important : I voted for Initiative 83 here in D.C. ! It would bring ranked-choice voting to the District and allow for independents to vote in the Democratic primaries in D.C. ( aka the real part of our electoral process considering how blue we are ) . I really believe that it would make our system more small-d democratic ! <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Hillary Frey , editor in chiefWho you are voting for this year : Kamala HarrisWhy : There was absolutely no way ever in the history of my life on the planet I would cast a vote for Trump : not in 2016 , 2020 , or now . On top of his worship of dictators , his disgusting treatment of women , his racism , his egoism , his nonsense ( " The weave ! " ) , he promulgated an insurrection because he was too insecure to accept defeat . Also , I hate liars . I can not stand to look at him or hear his voice . So , obviously , I am voting for Harris . I have never been particularly idealistic even if I have always been organically liberal . I am a second child , born to erstwhile-Republican parents ( they are registered Independents now ) , who learned to negotiate early and create peace . I say this because I am neither rallying for Harris nor dissing her : I am just voting for her . If she wins , I hope she delivers on affordable housing and taxes the fuck out of billionaires . Then , I 'll cheer.Who do you think will win this election ? Kamala HarrisWhy : Because I got a good night of sleep last night and ate a wholesome dinner and am not currently staring into a black hole of despair.What is one down-ballot item you are voting on that you think is particularly important : Prop 1 in New York , because it will strengthen protections for access to abortions in New York state , which we need in case of federal bans or laws that would limit it . You might think : Oh why does New York need that ? It 's so blue ! But I say : take no chances . Let 's amend the New York Constitution ! <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Henry Grabar , staff writerWho you are voting for this year : Kamala HarrisWhy : Donald Trump 's plan to arrest and deport 10 million people is at the top of the list for me.Who do you think will win this election ? My model says it 's a toss-up.What is one down-ballot item you are voting on that you think is particularly important : Expanding the standard minimum wage to covered tipped workers . The tipping system is bad and I think this is a step toward a fairer system for service workers . ( Though , to be sure , not all of them agree . ) <p> Advertisement <p> Rob Gunther , senior podcast producerWho you are voting for this year : Kamala HarrisWhy : I 'm deeply uncomfortable with the VP 's refusal to even consider withholding support and funding for what many experts and firsthand witnesses say is an ongoing genocide in Gaza . But I believe the alternative in another Trump presidency -- including the possible further erosion of abortion rights , as well as a promised series of detention camps along the border as part of a plan to expel millions of fellow human beings from our country -- is a future too dangerous to gamble on a protest vote.Who do you think will win this election ? I have no idea.Why : I would have bet any amount of money that Trump was going to lose in 2016 . What is one down-ballot item you are voting on that you think is particularly important : In New York City , Eric Adams , our criminally indicted cartoon-villain clown show of a mayor , has several ballot initiatives proposed that would expand his power as part of an attempt to revise the city 's charter . I voted no on Props 2 -- 6 and would urge fellow New Yorkers to do the same . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Mary Harris , host , What NextWho you are voting for this year : Kamala HarrisWhy : I mean , obviously.Who do you think will win this election ? Kamala Harris , by a hair.Why : Ground game . I think the Dems are way better on this than the GOP this year.What is one down-ballot item you are voting on that you think is particularly important : Not really . I voted on NY 's abortion measure , and voted against all of the bizarre Eric Adams measures . <p> Aymann Ismail , staff writer Who you are voting for this year : Kamala HarrisWhy : Figuring out how to vote felt cruel . Part of me just wanted to cancel out the die-hard Trumper in my mostly immigrant neighborhood . But this time , with everything happening in Gaza , I feel sick about it . It 's impossible to ask someone Arab to support people who 've criminalized pro-Palestinian voices on campus and keep giving Israel cover while our bombs kill babies with names and faces just like mine . Seeing those anguished parents , those orphaned kids -- how do you not feel like voting for Democrats anyway is like humiliatingly saying there is nothing they can do to lose our vote ? It 's disgusting that they put us in this position , and refused to even consider what it means to ask us to vote blue . So when my mail-in ballot came , I filled in the bubble for Kamala , but could n't even bring myself to send it in right away . It sat on my kitchen counter for nearly a month while I kept going back and forth , wondering if I could live with myself for voting for her . In the end , yeah , I mailed it -- but it still feels wrong . I 'm not proud of it at all.Who do you think will win this election ? KamalaHarrisWhy : Trump seemed like a shoo-in , but he 's doing everything he can to sabotage himself . He keeps exaggerating his crowd sizes , has tripled down on tariffs even though his own supporters do n't buy that it 'll fix things , and that comedian making fun of Puerto Rico ? I think that 's going to hurt him big time in places like Pennsylvania . Meanwhile , the enthusiasm for Kamala is huge . Even though I 'm angry about how things have gone during the war in Gaza , you ca n't ignore the groundswell around her . Plus , it feels like women 's rights are on the ballot , and I think that 's going to be a huge factor for a lot of voters.What is one down-ballot item you are voting on that you think is particularly important : Women 's rights feel like a huge factor in this election , especially with the outrage over abortion rights . That recent story of the mother denied care who died -- it 's shaken people , and it 's clear a lot of people are angry . Republicans have n't done themselves any favors , either , coming across as downright weird and out of touch whenever they talk about women . The year 2025 has a lot of people worried , and the party has n't done enough to distance itself from those extreme views . And that comment about " whether they like it or not " ? Just weird . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Derek L. John , executive producer of narrative podcastsWho you are voting for this year : Kamala HarrisWhy : Trump is unfit.Who do you think will win this election ? Kamala HarrisWhy : I still believe in the basic decency of the American people . <p> Derreck Johnson , designerWho you are voting for this year : Kamala HarrisWhy : Because I have common sense.Who do you think will win this election ? Kamala HarrisWhy : Momentum . The quantity of motion in a moving body . And the more motion that moving body has , the more difficult it is to stop it . It 's science.What is one down-ballot item you are voting on that you think is particularly important : In California , Proposition 6 is a constitutional amendment to end indentured servitude in state prisons , which many consider the last remnants of slavery . <p> Advertisement <p> Fred Kaplan , columnist Who you are voting for this year : Kamala HarrisWhy : Mainly because Trump is a danger to the country and the world , but Harris also shows promise , more than the Biden people allowed her to.Who do you think will win this election ? I do n't know . Like most people , I 'm not good at making predictions . If I were forced to bet the house , I 'd say Harris , but that may be my hopes talking.What is one down-ballot item you are voting on that you think is particularly important : Any and all Democratic candidates for U.S. Congress , no matter who they are , in order to keep the Senate and win back the House . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Alex Kirshner , contributing writerWho you are voting for this year : Kamala Harris.Why : I believe in Donald Trump 's boundless capacity to make things worse , even things that are already so vile that it takes real imagination to envision them getting worse . I hope to deny him the chance to test his God-given potential.Who do you think will win this election ? Kamala Harris.Why : People do not like this guy.What is one down-ballot item you are voting on that you think is particularly important : I voted yes on Proposition 33 in California . This was a confusing measure to me , because real estate forces who would like housing to be more expensive have run an effective campaign that muddied the waters for me quite a bit until I did my research . I want California to have more housing people can actually afford , and I expect Proposition 33 will aid that effort . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Isabelle Kohn , senior editorWho you are voting for this year : Kamala HarrisWhy : A real lesser-of-two-evils situation for me ! I do n't think she 's perfect and I would n't have picked her over other progressives , but bodily autonomy is incredibly important to me , and even though the Dems toe the line of the status quo in a way that does n't excite or impress , they seem to be way less hellbent on controlling individual people 's biologies and health choices . I 'm also deeply committed to the part of the Constitution that demands separation of church and state , and Kamala is n't running on a platform that forces Christianity or other religious beliefs on people . Do I think she 's really going to change anything ? Unsure , but I would like to remain free to believe what I want to believe and do with my body what I 'd like to do.Who do you think will win this election ? Probably TrumpWhy : Because why would anything good happen ever ! The country is going to shit . People love that shitty man in a uniquely delusional way . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Dan Kois , staff writer Who you are voting for this year : Kamala HarrisWhy : I think she is a pretty solid candidate with some useful policy plans , but this year I would vote for a large honey-roasted ham for president if it landed a spot on the Democratic ticket.Who do you think will win this election ? Kamala HarrisWhy : I think a very slim majority of people -- say , 50.2 percent -- in four American states are really good at heart.What is one down-ballot item you are voting on that you think is particularly important : In the county board race here in Arlington County , Virginia , the chief issue is the county 's missing middle zoning policy , which was intended to allow the construction of multifamily units on property formerly zoned only for single-family homes . The policy was a well-thought-out , ambitious plan for beginning to address the housing crisis in our D.C. suburb . A bunch of rich Arlingtonians sued and , this fall , won , so now the entire policy needs to be rewritten . I think this policy is exactly the kind of experimentation that a community like ours should be engaging in to change the housing dynamics in this wealthy county , and I want a county board that remains committed to the revolutionary idea that six-bedroom , $2.5 million McMansions are not the only kinds of houses that should be built here . So I 'm voting for J.D. Spain , the one candidate who supports the policy . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Scaachi Koul , senior writerWho you are voting for this year : I 'm not.Why : I ca n't ! Felon or immigrant ? You decide.Who do you think will win this election ? Xanax sales.Why : Oh , I think you know why . <p> Katie Krzaczek , senior editor Who you are voting for this year : Kamala HarrisWhy : Harris is not my ideal candidate , but she 's the only thing standing between maintaining a ( generally ) functioning democracy and a second Trump term . The biggest issue for me is reproductive freedom . I live in Pennsylvania , where abortion is still legal , but I do n't want to live in a country where my rights to health care feel so precarious , or where people in any state are restricted in the choices they 're able to make for their own health and safety . I 'm casting my vote for Harris with far less hand-wringing than I would have for Biden , though given the state of our two-party system , I would have voted for him , too , even after voting uncommitted in the primary in protest of the war in Gaza and in solidarity with Palestinians . There 's just too much on the line to allow Trump to take office again . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Josh Levin , editorial director , Slow BurnWho you are voting for this year : Kamala HarrisWhy : Looking forward to saying goodbye to Donald Trump forever , whenever that may be.Who do you think will win this election ? I have no idea ! <p> Ben Mathis-Lilley , senior writer Who you are voting for this year : Kamala HarrisWhy : I usually vote for the candidate in any given race who is less pro-Hitler.Who do you think will win this election : Kamala HarrisWhy : You can read my column about it , but basically it 's just this : For the last six years Democrats have won most of the elections in which a mainstream , normal Democrat runs against a Trump Republican.What is one down-ballot item you are voting on that you think is particularly important : I am voting for the slate of school board candidates in our town who say they think the school district 's administrators need to communicate better with parents , because it 's true that the school district 's administrators could stand to write clearer emails . I would n't say this is " particularly important " relative to the survival of democracy in the United States , but it 's the only down-ballot issue I have to weigh in on in northern New Jersey at the moment . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Susan Matthews , executive editor Who you are voting for this year : Kamala HarrisWhy : I would be voted for whoever was running against Trump , but I also want to cite the relief I felt when I watched Harris accept the nomination at the Democratic National Convention . Yes , she promised to maintain the " most lethal " military in the world and I do not value that -- but we have gone through this very abbreviated campaign pretending ( wishcasting ? ) that maybe we 're past the double standards Americans have for women leaders , and particularly women of color . The other day , I was mindlessly scrolling Instagram when I came across something to the effect of : " Imagine how they 'd be talking about Kamala if she 'd had children with three different men and had cheated on one of them with a porn star . " These kinds of comparisons are out of vogue ; it has been hard to summon back the outrage we felt about Trump in 2016 this third time around . But I am ready for America to elect a woman.Who do you think will win this election ? Kamala HarrisWhy : As the person who put this list together I had the advantage of submitting my own last , and everything is tilting in her direction . Knock on wood ! What is one down-ballot item you are voting on that you think is particularly important : I 'm particularly excited to vote on Proposition 1 in New York state , which intends to enshrine the right to abortion and additional protections for all kinds of people in the state constitution . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Natalie Matthews-Ramo , designer Who you are voting for this year : Kamala HarrisWhy : It is weird to me when people say you should vote for whoever will make YOUR life better ; my vote is n't for myself . I 'm a cis , straight , middle-class , U.S. citizen , white lady -- I 'll be fine . My vote is for the vulnerable who I fear will be at risk under a Trump presidency . I 'm worried the Supreme Court could swing even further right with any new appointees and turn back LGBTQ+ , immigrant , and female reproductive rights.Who do you think will win this election ? I ca n't think about this without spiraling out into full panic . So , I do n't know ! Why : I still have PTSD from Trump 's first win . The country is so divided on how to solve our problems . Some seem to want to burn it all down . Some seem to want to just pray them away . I 'm not sure either party has great solutions and that is why we are so divided.What is one down-ballot item you are voting on that you think is particularly important : Women 's rights and the Supreme Court justices . My biggest concern is that another justice will step down , and Trump will nominate another conservative justice to take their place who will abuse that power the way the court is now with rulings against abortion and presidential immunity . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Seth Maxon , senior editorWho you are voting for this year : Kamala HarrisWhy : The threat of Donald Trump is an existential one , to American democracy and , at minimum , to tens of millions of lives and livelihoods in the U.S. and overseas ( including in Israel and Palestine ) ; he must be stopped from regaining the terrifying power of the presidency . The only other person who can win this election is Harris , and though she is not my ideal president or Democratic candidate , I believe she will hold the line on maintaining the bare-minimum basics of democracy at home ( a low but vital bar ) , and is persuadable through political and activist pressure to change her positions for the better -- be it on immigration or on American policy toward Israel-Palestine -- to something more humane than what she has campaigned on . The choice is no choice really : It 's autocracy or Harris.Who do you think will win this election : Donald TrumpWhy : All evidence says that anything can happen . But I know people who have voted Democratic for years who are not voting for Harris for beliefs they hold to her right , and others not voting for her for beliefs they hold to her left . I think her strategy to focus the final two months of her campaign on reaching out to erstwhile moderate Republicans will backfire and depress turnout , among young voters in particular . I think she will lose Michigan , and her path to victory from there seems very difficult . The polls are so close as to be a coin flip , so her winning will not shock me . And I feel it necessary to caveat that this is only a vibe , and I do n't know what will happen ; nothing would surprise me save a landslide in either direction.What is one down-ballot item you are voting on that you think is particularly important : Prop 1 in New York state would amend the state constitution to enshrine abortion/reproductive rights and would outlaw , in the same amendment , discrimination based on ethnicity , national origin , age , disability , sexual orientation , gender identity , and pregnancy . It 's really important to strengthening and maintaining equal rights for all in the state , as they 're likely to be continually attacked and degraded at the national level . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Abby McIntyre , managing editorWho you are voting for this year : Kamala HarrisWhy : It 's a pretty obvious choice between a well-qualified Harris , who actually seems to care about the American people she would represent , and a self-serving bigot who plans to take the country backward in as many ways as possible.Who do you think will win this election ? Donald TrumpWhy : The media and misinformation atmosphere has grown so fractured and broken that we are not even speaking the same language as many of the voters in this country , and I just do n't see any way to bridge that gap , unfortunately.What is one down-ballot item you are voting on that you think is particularly important : I 'll be curious to see whether Elissa Slotkin can hold off Republican Mike Rogers in the Michigan Senate race here . This is for the seat of retiring Sen. Debbie Stabenow , so it 's slightly more up-in-the-air than usual and not a slam dunk for Dems . Rogers is significantly less popular than Trump , so if he manages to win , that 's a bad sign for the Electoral College in addition to making it nearly impossible for the Democrats to hold the Senate . But Slotkin has faced a lot of ( mostly false ) xenophobic and fear-based attacks over ties to Chinese companies , and she also failed to earn a key endorsement from farmers . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Laura Miller , columnistWho you are voting for this year : Kamala HarrisWhy : For a lot of positive reasons , like reproductive freedom , and to stop Trump 's antidemocratic movement.Who do you think will win this election ? HarrisWhy : I think the Democrats ' ground game is better and that women are highly motivated to regain their reproductive freedom.What is one down-ballot item you are voting on that you think is particularly important : In Maine , I 'm voting to keep Jared Golden in office and for a measure to limit the power of super PACs . Also , to bring back the pine tree flag ! <p> Advertisement <p> Alicia Montgomery , vice president of audioWho you are voting for this year : Kamala HarrisWhy : I 'm Black and so is my child . The idea of a violent racist taking hold of our country and my hometown of Washington , D.C. -- especially with the SCOTUS immunity decision -- terrifies me , and it fills me with shame to think that me and my generation have squandered the opportunities our ancestors died to give us , and that my child will suffer because of it.Who do you think will win this election : No idea.Why : Polls have been wonky for several cycles . Their accuracy depends so much on predicting which groups will vote and at what levels , and the electorate is too volatile for any of them to be reliable.What is one down-ballot item you are voting on that you think is particularly important : If the top of the ballot goes wrong , none of the rest matters . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Jim Newell , senior politics writerWho you are voting for this year : Kamala HarrisWhy : Imagine if they 'd just given The Tonight Show to Trump in 2014 ... Who do you think will win this election ? I 'm not telling ! Why : As I have regularly told myself since the 2016 election , whenever the temptation arises ( as it often does ) : It 's not my job to make predictions . <p> Rebecca Onion , senior editorWho you are voting for this year : Kamala HarrisWhy : I have my misgivings , mostly Gaza-related . But when it comes to the potential for any kind of federal climate action , there is no comparison between these two choices.Who do you think will win this election ? Please do n't make me say ! Why : I am deeply superstitious.What is one down-ballot item you are voting on that you think is particularly important : Ohio 's Issue 1 ! Not only would this measure depoliticize redistricting , which will help my state 's politics reflect the preferences of its voters more accurately , but also , it 's been the subject of a lot of ratfuckery from GOP elements who want to see it fail , and are trying to confuse people by messing with the language they 'll read on the ballot . Vote Yes on 1 ! <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Nitish Pahwa , associate writerWho you are voting for this year : Kamala HarrisWhy : It 's a travesty that the criminal , hateful , coup-inciting , blatantly authoritarian Donald Trump could potentially return to office , this time surrounded only by administration loyalists . I share many voters ' concerns over how a Harris administration would deal with Gaza , but let 's also be clear : Trump would be far worse for Palestinians , for Palestinian Americans , and for their allies in every possible way . It 's not even close . New York will give its electoral votes to Harris anyway , yes , but the national popular vote tally is still important.Who do you think will win this election ? N/AWhy : In my opinion , it 's not only a fool 's errand to guess , but also foolish to try to game out how the ultimate transition of power will shape up , either way -- Trump and his cronies are already planning another coup attempt if he loses , after all.What is one down-ballot item you are voting on that you think is particularly important : Like many other New Yorkers , I am voting No on Props 2 -- 6 , all of which are attempts by Eric Adams and his allies to cripple the power of the City Council . I am voting yes on Prop 1 , however , and I think it 's important to explain why . This proposition is an " equal rights amendment " that would enshrine protections for reproductive rights and the LGBTQ+ community in New York 's state constitution . Unfortunately , Republicans here have attacked Prop 1 with cruel anti-trans messaging , not at all dissimilar to the dehumanizing language they 've levied against transgender Americans in ads playing out in so many other states . And New York Democrats have been cowardly about defending and standing up for trans kids , who have been targeted and bullied , and stripped of their right to medical care , in so many parts of the country . I am voting for Prop 1 because I believe in gender equality , and that includes the civil rights of transgender Americans of all ages . It is sickening to see how much they 've been persecuted by one political party , and how feckless the other political party has been about standing up for their rights . This has to end . ( And just in case anyone needs a reminder : Democratic darlings Roy Cooper and Andy Beshear won their gubernatorial seats in much more conservative states in part by fully defending trans children . What are NY Democrats good for if they ca n't follow their example ? ) <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Shannon Palus , features editor Who you are voting for this year : Kamala HarrisWhy : I hope to have a kid during the next presidency . In the words of Washington Post humor columnist Alexandra Petri , who took it upon herself to endorse Kamala when the paper would n't : " I care which world my kid gets born into . I also live here myself . " Who do you think will win this election ? Kamala HarrisWhy : I have made a conscious choice to just assume the outcome will be good . I 'm not being delusional about it -- no merrily heading to a bar to watch the results like in 2016 ! -- but no good can really come of actively worrying about this , for me , right now . <p> Advertisement <p> Willa Paskin , host , Decoder RingWho you are voting for this year : Kamala HarrisWho do you think will win this election ? This is a jinx . <p> Anna Phillips , podcast producerWho you are voting for this year : Kamala HarrisWhy : I 'm disappointed Biden did n't step aside earlier and allow time for an actual primary . I would 've liked the chance to vote for a more progressive candidate . However , the possibility of a second Trump presidency is terrifying , and Harris is by far the obvious choice.Who do you think will win this election ? Kamala HarrisWhy : I 'm confident Harris will win the popular vote , but I 'm less confident in how the Electoral College map will shake out . I 'm hoping that enough Trump voters have gotten fatigued by him over the past eight years , but it 's hard to tell with the polling so close.What is one down-ballot item you are voting on that you think is particularly important : I 'll be voting yes on Prop 1 , a ballot measure in New York that would enshrine reproductive rights into the state 's constitution , as well as prohibit discrimination based on things like gender identity and national origin . While I do n't think that abortion access in New York is immediately at risk , the attacks on reproductive rights that we 've seen around the country since the overturning of Roe v. Wade and the looming possibility of a Trump presidency have shown that it 's extremely important to protect these rights preemptively on the state level ( although notably , the ballot measure does not actually have the word abortion in it -- I wish it did ! ) . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Ben Richmond , senior director of operations , podcastsWho you are voting for this year : Kamala HarrisWhy : Bureaucratic incrementalism might not be my ideal government , but it sure beats " One man 's list of personal grievances , plus whatever weird Christian nationalism the most sycophantic creeps in America can sneak in . " Who do you think will win this election ? HarrisWhy : Because Trump already lost once and has n't expanded his appeal . Maybe angry young men will rise en masse from their gaming chairs and put him over the top , but Harris ' bid for " people with any sense of civic responsibility " makes a lot of sense to me.What is one down-ballot item you are voting on that you think is particularly important : Preserving the right to abortions has consistently won on a state level , even in deep-red Kansas , and I think Democrats have done a decent if not great job of explaining how strict abortion bans make life harder , both for the pregnant ( those who do n't want to give birth , but also those who do , but this particular pregnancy is n't viable ) and also for doctors who have to risk jail to treat their patients . You might be against abortion but rights to IVF and , uh , not dying of septic shock seem pretty widely shared among people who are paying attention . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Sarah Rutledge , copy chiefWho you are voting for this year : Kamala HarrisWhy : This is probably our last best swerve away from fascism ! I wish campaigns were boring and issues-based so that I could , once again , have a better reason than " Please , not Trump . " But I am excited to cast my vote for a younger candidate with a hopeful campaign who , I hope , will consider the concerns of younger/leftier voters , prioritize abortion rights , and improve our country 's diplomatic relations.Who do you think will win this election ? Kamala HarrisWhy : I 'm a bit superstitious about putting this down in writing lest I jinx something , but I do ultimately lean toward believing that a majority of voters recognize the danger of another Trump term . I just hope that majority falls in the right few states ! What is one down-ballot item you are voting on that you think is particularly important : With the caveat that this is a much longer shot than the presidential election , it would be incredible to see Colin Allred defeat Ted Cruz in the Senate race . Republicans in Texas regularly suffer zero consequences for abysmal , dangerous governance ( the 2021 winter storm ! The grid ! Cruz 's midstorm trip to Canc ? n ! ) , and it 'd be a wholesome thrill to see a spineless politician held to account for the harm he has caused the residents of this state . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Elena Schwartz , podcast producerWho you are voting for this year : Kamala HarrisWhy : I 'm voting for the candidate who respects a bigger portion of her constituency and who holds more of our best interests at heart . And I like how the progressive caucus put it -- I 'm choosing who I 'd prefer to argue with.Who do you think will win this election ? Kamala HarrisWhy : Gut feeling ! Ca n't think too hard about it or the anxiety will overtake me . <p> Heather Schwedel , staff writer Who you are voting for this year : Kamala HarrisWhy : Harris is a better candidate and person in every conceivable way , but even if she were n't , we 'd still owe it to ourselves and humanity to do everything we can to keep Trump out of the White House . Beyond that , I do n't know how we can begin to address the deeply sad reality that half of the people in this country seem basically OK with Trump 's fundamental cruelty , but at least the first thing we need to do -- elect literally anyone else -- is clear . Less urgently , the Trump thing is also very stale narratively -- if ever there were a case of not needing a sequel ! Bring on a new cast of characters -- bring on first gentleman Doug ! Who do you think will win this election : Kamala HarrisWhy : It 's not like I want us to pretend that polls are trustworthy if they are n't , but more than any other election I can remember , it seems like we 're just flying blind here . No one knows what 's going to happen , how close it is , anything ! It 's infuriating ! So , acknowledging that I could be totally off , I am going to give the edge to Harris . Trump has n't won anything since 2016 , and he has n't done anything to substantially change that trajectory . Just because I think she should win does n't mean she will -- where are we on the whole question of voters hating women these days ? -- but Trump 's particularly racist last week of campaigning seems to have given her some momentum too . I hope it 's enough . <p> Advertisement <h> Related From Slate <p> Natalie Shutler , politics directorWho you are voting for this year : I voted for Kamala Harris.Why : Look , I wish I could say this was even a choice . But we already saw what Trump was like as president . We will inevitably face many crises as a nation in the years ahead and I want someone in charge who is solutions-oriented and will seek the best outcomes for the most people . When flash flooding destroyed swaths of Western North Carolina and other parts of the Southeast earlier this year , Trump and his camp responded by spreading misinformation about the government 's response , endangering first responders and those affected who needed critical support . It was a painful echo of the beginnings of the pandemic -- when he was actually in charge , and also spread mountains of misinformation , division and suspicion , endangering not just first responders but the entire country . That 's not leadership . The dude is unfit for office.Who do you think will win this election ? I wo n't be predicting a thing ! Why : It 's a really close election and there are plenty of variables besides how a majority of voters cast their ballots . <p> Ivylise Simones , creative directorWho you are voting for this year : KamalaWhy : I think about my kid 's future , and truly would love to keep my daughter from ever experiencing a Trump administration . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Jeremy Stahl , jurisprudence editorWho you are voting for this year : Kamala HarrisWhy : You name it.Who do you think will win this election : Kamala HarrisWhy : The election is way too close for comfort and it 's probably a toss-up , but I 'm hopeful that we will avoid a fascist takeover of America by the skin of our teeth thanks to heightened engagement of pro-choice ( and particularly ) women voters following the Supreme Court 's Dobbs decision , general disdain among the U.S. electorate for Trump 's role in the events of Jan. 6 as evidenced by the 2022 midterms , and a stronger and more experienced get-out-the-vote apparatus by the Harris campaign.What is one down-ballot item you are voting on that you think is particularly important : I 'm voting for tenant rights attorney Ysabel Jurado to represent my East Los Angeles community on the City Council , but mostly I 'm voting against current councilmember Kevin de Le ? n , who was the lone holdout not to resign after being caught on tape with other councilmembers engaging in a racist and antisemitic conversation . De Le ? n , who came closer than expected to upsetting Sen. Dianne Feinstein as part of a long-shot challenge in 2018 , plasters his name and face on everything in my community and his campaign seems to have more money than God , so I 'm fearful that this and name recognition alone will put him over the top . I 'm hopeful , though , that people will remember his role in the scandal when they vote and put Jurado into office . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Mark Joseph Stern , senior writer Who you are voting for this year : Kamala HarrisWhy : Because Donald Trump is an aspiring fascist who embraces authoritarianism to suppress democracy and civil rights , while Kamala Harris supports individual liberty , equality , and free elections . I especially appreciate that Harris views women as equal citizens who deserve to make their own medical decisions , whereas Trump will happily sacrifice their lives to win support from anti-abortion extremists . Also , I want the next president to appoint judges like Ketanji Brown Jackson , not Samuel Alito.Who do you think will win this election ? Kamala HarrisWhy : Because I 'm so terrified of the alternative that I wo n't allow my mind to contemplate it.What is one down-ballot item you are voting on that you think is particularly important : Initiative 83 ! This measure would allow ranked-choice voting in D.C. and open our primaries to independents . I support it because ranked-choice voting is much more rational than the current system and elevates consensus candidates with broad support . Moreover , the winner of the Democratic primary is basically guaranteed to win the general election in D.C. , so excluding independents from the primary deprives them of a meaningful voice in elections altogether . Overall , Initiative 83 will give the District a government that 's more representative and responsive to the people it serves . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Dana Stevens , columnistWho you are voting for this year : Harris-WalzWhy : If you need to ask , then Slate , you may have lost the esteem I once held you in.Who do you think will win this election ? Harris-WalzWhy : One-third sheer refusal to engage with the alternate scenario until such time as reality forces me to ; one-third educated guess based on Kamala 's steady if slight edge on average in the polls since she entered the race ( allowing for the carve-out that no one , including pollsters , really trusts polls anymore ) ; one-third actual observation of her campaign 's strong ground game and the huge swell of voter energy her unexpected candidacy brought with it.What is one down-ballot item you are voting on that you think is particularly important : I 'm from Texas and have been watching , praying , donating , and volunteering for many successive election cycles as that state gets bluer and bluer . This may not be the year a Democrat takes Ted Cruz 's Senate seat ( although , go Colin Allred ! ) , but that day is coming and it 's going to be glorious . <p> Advertisement <p> Tony Ho Tran , senior editorWho you are voting for this year : Kamala HarrisWhy : My mom and I have a lot of things in common , but one of the things that sticks out to me the most is that we were both made fun of for our race a lot when we were in school . She grew up in postwar Vietnam as a mixed-race child of an American soldier . I grew up in Iowa , where I was one of the first Asian kids many of my peers had ever seen . Both of us went through a lot when it came to adjusting and blending in to try and fit into notions of what " normal " was for where we lived . I can safely say that neither of us would have ever imagined the possibility that there could be a mixed-race woman -- one of half Asian and half Black descent , just like my mother -- running for one of the most powerful offices in the country . I 'd be lying if that alone did n't influence a lot of why I want to see Kamala Harris voted into the presidency . More than that , she also represents many of the values and policy positions I believe are important for the future of our republic including strong support for the middle class via expansion of the child tax credit , affordable housing initiatives , and a commitment to restoring reproductive rights and national protections for abortion access . At the end of the day , though , when I head to the ballot box , I 'll be doing so thinking of the two mixed-race kids getting made fun of on the schoolyard in Iowa and Vietnam , hoping that one day they 'd be able to find something better : a world that accepts and maybe even celebrates them.Who do you think will win this election ? God , I have no earthly idea.Why : All polling seems to suggest that this is a complete jump ball of a race.What is one down-ballot item you are voting on that you think is particularly important : I will be keeping an eye out for two House races in my home state : the 1st and 3rd Districts of Iowa . Democrats in the Hawkeye State have gotten their act together since losing first-in-nation status in the primary and have made those races incredibly competitive -- and a chance to turn a ruby-red state purple once again . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Forrest Wickman , culture editor Who you are voting for this year : Kamala HarrisWhy : My reasons have not changed from how I summarized them in 2016 and 2020 . Who do you think will win this election ? Donald TrumpWhy : I , of course , have no idea who 's going to win the election . None of us do ! My gut says Trump , but I think that has more to do with the fact that I do n't see any point to predicting a Kamala victory . Any chance of another Trump presidency is unacceptable , and now is not the time to soothe ourselves with reassuring predictions . It 's the moment to stop at nothing to prevent the unacceptable.What is one down-ballot item you are voting on that you think is particularly important : I 'll be voting " Yes " on New York 's Proposition 1 , because if we ca n't have a federal constitutional right to abortion , each of us should at least do what we can to protect that right in our home state . <p> Luke Winkie , staff writer Who you are voting for this year : Kamala HarrisWhy : I am going to vote for the most progressive of the two major candidates for the rest of my life , so on that level , this was n't much of a choice . I should also add that there is nothing I 'd like more than to see some of the more annoying of Trump 's sycophants -- Elon Musk , David Sacks , Bill Ackman , etc. -- absolutely eat shit after being so confident about his candidacy during the summer . Fingers crossed ! Who do you think will win this election ? HarrisWhy : Seems like a coin flip to be honest , but I am feeling cautiously optimistic about the Selzer poll . Feels like a good omen , especially for how much MAGAdom seems to be freaking out about it.What is one down-ballot item you are voting on that you think is particularly important : Sometimes I feel like I 'm the only one who finds perhaps the most unappealing thing about Trump to be the absolutely psychotic deportation campaign he 's promising , which the Harris camp appears to have decided is a losing issue for her . ( That 's why the only thing she speaks about , when immigration comes up , is the " bipartisan border bill . " ) It would be nice if the Democrats could come up with a more humane approach to their immigration policies ! It could even be pretty popular ! <p> Jenny G. Zhang , senior editor Who you are voting for this year : Kamala HarrisWhy : I am voting for Kamala Harris because I must . I 'll spare you the dissertation 's worth of reasons as to why Donald Trump can not be elected president again , except to say : He and his backers will make this country , and this world , markedly worse in every single way . Harris is not our gilded salvation ; no politician is . I do n't lack the imagination to conceive of a different world , one in which our grand democratic process is n't whittled down to a binary choice -- but I know that the gulf between what should be reality and what is reality remains vast , and so it is without hesitation that I swallow the acrid pill of pragmatism and hope that enough fellow voters do the same.Who do you think will win this election ? Kamala HarrisWhy : For all the polling data and elaborate formulas involved in this election forecast business , predictions are , at the end of the day , a reflection of wishful thinking . Responding to this question with my desired outcome is perhaps naive , a little like tempting fate with my refusal to let myself commit intellectually to the alternative . But to hedge my bet and answer with that alternative in a jagged attempt to paper over my vulnerability would be worse , I think , and the motivation at its root would remain the same . I 'll say it plainly , then , and dispense with the pretense : Based on nothing but my own want , I predict Kamala Harris will win this election .
