<h> Live updates : Trump-Harris election results to start trickling in after first polls close <p> Follow along for the latest at the polls as Kamala Harris and Donald Trump face off . Results in the presidential , Senate , House and other races begin tonight . <p> Updated Nov. 5 , 2024 , 11:41 PM UTC <p> By MSNBC <h> What to know on Election Day <p> The first polls closed at 6 p.m . ET in one of the most consequential U.S. elections in recent history . Results in the presidential race between Vice President Kamala Harris and former President Donald Trump are expected to start rolling in around 7 p.m . ET . <p> Democrats and Republicans are vying for control in Congress , with 34 Senate seats up for grabs and all 435 House seats facing election . Referendums on abortion rights and marijuana legalization , among other issues , are on the ballot in several states . <p> NBC News exit polls show democracy and the economy were top of mind for voters today , followed by abortion and immigration . <h> Keep an eye out for the Musk effect in swing state turnout <p> There 's been a lot of reporting about GOP concerns that Elon Musk 's get-out-the-vote operation is failing to live up to expectations . The data that 's been gathered is suspect , the canvassers have been reportedly tricked into participating , and NBC News reported last week that " all hell has broken loose " inside his America PAC . It sounds like there 's been strong turnout in some of the states where Musk 's contractors have been operating , like Michigan . But the question is how many of those voters at the polls are Republicans who are there because of the door-knocking efforts from the Musk brigade . <h> Reminder : The Electoral College is bad <p> As we nervously watch to see which candidate wins which state , let it not pass by notice that the Electoral College is no way to choose a president . That remains the case even if Trump defies his past record and ekes out a popular vote win while Harris hits the magic 270 first . As I wrote in an essay last month : <p> The fact that we even need to do complicated math to try to determine who might win the presidency is absurd . The current mechanics disenfranchise urban conservatives and rural liberals alike , substituting geography for political agency . A world where the direct popular vote was determinant would force candidates to compete for every vote in every state . It would be another much-needed step in America 's centuries long transformation from an amalgamation of independent states into a single national unit . <h> The 2 Virginia races politicos are watching as bellwethers <p> Ali Vitali <p> Party leaders on both sides will be watching Virginia 's 2nd and 7th Congressional Districts closely when polls close there at 7 p.m . ET . Both are considered bellwethers for the national political winds -- and provide a litmus test for those impatient watchers ( who among us ? ) hoping for some early test cases . <p> Virginia 's 7th is an open seat in Northern Virginia -- just a short drive out of Washington , -- held previously by Democratic Rep. Abigail Spanberger who is now running for governor . Virginia 's 2nd , in the Southern part of the state that includes Norfolk , is held by freshman GOP Rep. Jen Kiggans who flipped the seat red in 2022 . <p> The thinking goes that if Republicans retain the 2nd and pick up the 7th , it 'll be a positive sign of what 's to come for them across the map . Conversely , if Democrats flip the 2nd and keep the 7th , there will be higher hopes for them to take back control of the House chamber . To do so , Democrats need to flip at least four seats . Should the 2nd and 7th remain as is , each party notching one win in their column , it could be predictive of the kinds of razor-thin margins we 've already come to know from this Congress . <h> Trump-appointed judge in GA smacks down GOP voter suppression <p> One of the latest Republican legal losses just came from a Trump-appointed judge in Georgia , who called out a GOP bid to block ballots in Democratic-leaning counties . <p> U.S. District Judge Stan Baker reportedly said on Tuesday that the GOP claim did n't pass " even the most basic level of statutory review and reading comprehension . " Regarding the bid to block votes in counties that could favor Democrats in the state , the judge said it was even more concerning that , if he had granted the request , he would only be blocking votes from select counties that the GOP " cherry picked " based on political preferences of people in those counties . <p> It 's a good example of a court holding against voter suppression attempts , and potentially even more powerful coming from a judge appointed by the candidate who would stand to benefit from the claim the judge denied . <h> Nevada SoS worried about rejected ballots in key counties <p> Nevada Secretary of State Cisco Aguilar has told multiple news outlets that he 's concerned about high numbers of rejected mail ballots in Clark and Washoe counties . <p> Aguilar told the New York Times that the problem could be due to younger voters who registered when getting a driver 's license . <p> " It 's mostly the fact that young people do n't have signatures these days , " he said . " And when they did register to vote through the automatic voter registration process , they signed a digital pad at D.M.V. , and that became their license signature . " <p> Studies have shown signature-matching is not as scientific as it 's made out to be , with young , Black and Hispanic voters more likely to have their signature rejected . One study in Washington state found that ballot signatures from Hispanic and Asian voters in the 2020 election were twice as likely to be rejected . <p> In Nevada , rejected ballots can still be counted . Elections officials will try to reach the voters and ask them to come in and " cure " them by providing ID . Nevadans have until 5 p.m. on the sixth day after the election to cure their ballot . Unfortunately , roughly one-thrid of states do not have a ballot-curing process . <h> The earliest county to watch <p> As my colleague Hayley Miller noted , the polling places in the portions of Indiana and Kentucky in the Eastern time zone closed at 6:00 p.m. local time . Indiana Democrats hope to outperform their polls in the gubernatorial race , but for national observers , all eyes will be on Hamilton County . <p> The college-educated suburb went two-thirds for Mitt Romney in 2012 , but under Trump the GOP share plunged to 56.7% in 2016 and 52.4% in 2020 . This was also Nikki Haley 's second best county in the state 's GOP primary , where she received one-third of the vote despite dropping out two months earlier . If Harris keeps it close here , it 's likely a sign of Democratic strength in the high-college suburbs they are targeting in other states . <h> Trump pushes unfounded election fraud claims while polls still open <p> Adam Weinstein <p> With more than three hours left for voters to line up in Pennsylvania , Trump targeted the pivotal state 's most populous -- and diverse -- city with unfounded claims of election fraud . <p> Philadelphia District Attorney Larry Krasner rebutted Trump 's post in a statement . " The only talk about massive cheating has come from one of the candidates , Donald J. Trump , " Krasner said . " There is no factual basis whatsoever within law enforcement to support this wild allegation . We have invited complaints and allegations of improprieties all day . If Donald J. Trump has any facts to support his wild allegations , we want them now . Right now . We are not holding our breath . " <p> Trump has been telegraphing to his supporters for most of the year that he would claim the election was rigged against him . In recent days , he has repeated unfounded claims of voter fraud in Pennsylvania , the state that many experts expect to be the tipping point in this year 's election . <p> In the 2020 election , Trump and his campaign leveled numerous unfounded charges of voter fraud against the City of Brotherly Love before , during , and after the vote . In a debate with then-Vice President Joe Biden that October , Trump baselessly called the city 's vote counting into question , saying : " Bad things happen in Philadelphia . " <h> A remarkable statistic about 34-year-old voters <p> If you are ages 34 to 37 and have voted for the Democratic ticket in every presidential election , then this would be the fifth presidential election in which you did n't vote for two white men . <p> On the flip side , if you are the same age and have voted Republican , then you would have backed a ticket with two white men four out of five times . ( The exception being Sarah Palin as John McCain 's running mate in 2008 . ) <p> On the Democratic side , that trend is likely to continue . It 's hard to imagine there being a Democratic ticket of two white men for the near future , given what journalist Ronald Brownstein has termed Democrats ' multicultural " coalition of the ascendant " and strength among women voters . <p> But it may not hold on the Republican side either . A lot of GOP strategists would have preferred for Trump to choose either a woman or a person of color as a running mate , if only to undercut some of the Democratic attacks . If Trump loses , there may even be renewed pressure for Republicans to nominate a woman against Harris to try to reduce the gender gap . <h> Watch out for these state Supreme Court races <p> Plenty of important races are happening in addition to those for the presidency and Congress , including state Supreme Courts . <p> Voters around the country are weighing in on the fates of tribunals that decide crucial disputes over abortion , gerrymandering and more . <p> Headlining the judicial races are Michigan and Ohio , where partisan control of those courts could flip . Heading into Election Day , Democrats hold a 4-3 advantage in Michigan , while Republicans control the same slim margin in Ohio . <p> NBC News reports that election officials in Milwaukee are recounting more than 30,000 ballots to ensure an accurate count after there was an issue sealing ballot tabulation machines . The ballots are going to be rerun through the machines and counted once more , which will delay the final vote count . <h> TikTok is a political battleground for Gen Z voters <p> A new generation of young voters are having a political coming of age in this election , and TikTok has become a battleground for their attention . <p> The number of Baby Boomers in the U.S. fell by 7 million between 2010 and 2023 . Meanwhile , more than 8 million youth aged into the electorate this year , making a total of 41 million members of Gen Z eligible to vote in 2024 . <p> Throughout the following few months , TikTok remained the platform where young voters processed political news , as they took snippets from political speeches and remixed them into viral audios . <p> Both Harris and Trump themselves also experienced a surge of interest on TikTok . The Harris campaign TikTok account ( formerly Biden 's ) has 6.5 million followers , while her personal account has racked up 5 million followers since it opened in late July . Still , Trump maintains the upper hand on followers with 12.6 million on TikTok for his personal account . <h> Harris ' campaign has already made history <p> Michael Steele <p> Michael Steele speaking on MSNBC moments ago : <p> Harris has done something that the history books are going to write about , regardless of the outcome of this election . They 're going to write about her as a transcendent presidential nominee because she did in 107 days what nobody thought could be done . <p> Her messaging was disciplined . She was focused . She spent the better part of the campaign , talking about Trump and contextualizing him , playing his words at her rallies . She played him in real-time during her rallies so people could actually hear his words . She did n't just quote him , she let voters hear him . It was transformative . <p> Then last two weeks , what has she done ? She 's focused not on Trump but on us -- every one of us , the women across the country , young girls , dads with daughters . She 's focused on the people . <p> In a way she 's saying in her closing message , we ca n't move forward together if we 're tearing each other down at the end of the day . She 's telling all Americans " I 'll be a president for you . " <p> These comments have been slightly edited for length and clarity . <h> NBC News exit poll : Trump voters move to the left on abortion <p> Ali Vitali <p> NBC News exit polls show that a larger share of Trump voters say abortion should be legal , as compared with four years ago , underscoring how this issue is n't well encapsulated by typical partisan lines . <p> I 've met many Republican voters -- and even Republican lawmakers and operatives themselves -- who fret that the party has very much become the dog that caught the car after repealing Roe and that they 're operating now in a political environment where they 're out of step with not just the majority of Americans but also a significant segment of their base . To see exit polls show 38% of Trump voters , up from 26% in 2020 , now saying abortion should be legal is a significant shift . <h> Harris team feels confident about late-deciding voters <p> Although they are always an important voting bloc , late-deciding voters could play a key role this election , possibly boosting Harris . <p> That 's because they appear to be one of the few groups of voters who had n't already made up their minds on Trump . <p> Senior officials with the Harris campaign told NBC News that their internal data showed them winning voters in battleground states who made up their mind in the last week by double digits . <p> That lines up with a recent New York Times-Siena College poll of swing state voters which found Harris leading Trump by 16 points , 58 to 42 percent , among those who decided " in the last few days . " <p> Late-deciding voters are a hard-to-read bunch . They include people who are cross-pressured , such as an abortion-rights supporter who has serious concerns about inflation ; people who have lost faith in the political system and only intermittently vote ; and those who simply wait until the last-minute to start paying attention . You know , procrastinators . <p> Pundits tend to argue that the events of the final week of campaigning have an outsized effect on these voters , but no one really knows . It 's possible that many of the people who say they are undecided earlier in a campaign have already kind-of decided but just do n't like to commit until late in the game . <h> Women are angry . It 's important to remember why . <p> Mika Brzezinski <p> Mika Brzezinski speaking on MSNBC moments ago : <p> Women are reliable voters , unlike a lot of men , and a lot of them are voting because they are angry . But I think it 's important to look at why women are angry this election cycle . <p> Let 's just say , very blatantly that the misogyny runs deep with Trump , we know how he feels about women and what he 's done to women . <p> Especially what he has done to women with the fall of Roe , whether we " like it or not , " he has caused us great suffering . And I think that actually makes a lot of men mad because they are watching what 's happening to women across the country , in states where there are these strict abortion bans , they 're taking them to hospitals , carrying them at times while they 're bleeding out and they 're not able to do anything . I think any real man would be upset about that . <p> But there 's an interesting dynamic to consider , given the Rube Goldberg mechanics of the Electoral College . During Gov . Ron DeSantis ' time in office , Florida has proudly staked out a claim as a place for MAGA diehards from the rest of the country ( particularly from cold regions ) to move to and live a life unfettered by so-called woke libs . <p> So a question : if , say , 10,000 Trump voters relocated from Michigan , Wisconsin and Pennsylvania to Florida in the last four years , could that end up proving costly for Trump 's Electoral College path ? <h> Democratic voters are ' libbing out ' <p> On social media , the phrase has become a hot trend for Democrats and progressives heading out to vote today , something I encountered in my feed this morning several times . " Libbing out so hard that I 'm fantasizing about a blue Texas , " wrote one user . " The cautious part of my optimism is slowly fading away . Might be libbing out real hard tn , " wrote another . <p> The meaning seems clear enough , but naturally there 's some quibbling . Journalist Taylor Lorenz defined it in a piece as " an ironic embrace of mainstream Democratic politics , often by disillusioned young progressives . " <p> But that appears to be just one definition . Many users seem to mean that they are just setting aside their fears and doubts about Trump 's chances and embracing their inner optimist , while others are using it as shorthand for cringe memes from the left . <p> Remember , the court rejected Republican election challenges in 2020 , and there is n't currently a pending appeal that gives the justices the chance to throw the election to the GOP nominee . One might not materialize . <h> Indiana Democrats sense an opportunity in a deep-red state <p> Max Burns <p> Barack Obama 's upset 2008 victory in Indiana was the biggest surprise of that presidential election . Indiana Democrats are n't as optimistic about flipping the state this year , but party officials have been surprised by unexpectedly strong turnout at polling places across the state . <p> The shift in momentum has been especially noticeable among women , according to an Indiana Democratic Party spokesperson . " We 're seeing historic turnout " the spokesperson told MSNBC . " Women are also voting in historic numbers ... to make change in this election . The one problem so far is just the long lines all across the state leading to long waits . " <p> Indiana is safe Republican territory , but Trump faced a significant and divisive protest vote in May 's presidential primary , and those rifts extended to a state party squabble . That turmoil has led to a closer-than-expected race for governor , with Sen. Mike Braun struggling to build consensus in a state party divided by disagreements over Trump . <h> California and Nevada vote on forced prison labor <p> California and Nevada could join the growing list of states that have banned forced prison labor if the results of two state referendums go that way . Question 4 in Nevada and Proposition 6 in California ask voters whether they want to close a loophole in the 13th Amendment through a ban on forced prison labor . Passage of the questions would mean inmates have more time for rehabilitation programs rather than being forced to work for pennies on the dollar . <p> In related news , Home Depot co-founder and far-right financier Bernie Marcus died on Monday . Marcus was one of the top donors to Turning Point USA , having given the organization millions of dollars over the years <h> Trump will spend election night in Florida -- with Elon Musk <p> Trump will hold several events in Palm Beach tonight , including a dinner with donors at Mar-a-Lago and an election night watch party at the Palm Beach County Convention Center . NBC News reports that billionaire Elon Musk , one of Trump 's biggest donors who could stand to gain a lot if the Republican nominee wins , will be by the Republican nominee 's side at Mar-a-Lago as the results come in . <p> * Questioned why many women do n't support him even though his administration made gains in combating human trafficking ( anti-trafficking advocates have said the Trump administration , to the contrary , severely impeded the fight against human trafficking ) . <p> Harris has followed a similar formula but for different reasons . Because she entered the race late and without the usual primary , the vice president inherited a lot of President Joe Biden 's proposals and then had to backfill them with her own ideas . <h> Vance calls Harris ' trash ' <p> " In two days , we are gon na take out the trash in Washington , D.C , and the trash 's name is ' Kamala Harris , ' " he said Monday at a rally in Atlanta , Georgia . <p> This is a complete 180 from the way Vance presented himself in the vice presidential debate , when he offered a sanitized version of Trumpism that appeared both reasonable and civil . By the end of the campaign , he had revealed himself to be more aligned with Trump -- in terms of political presentation and rhetoric -- than he initially had , resorting to belligerent and unsophisticated language . <p> It is worth noting that Trump and his allies have historically reserved a particular type of vitriol for women and people of color . <h> The rhetoric of Trump 's closing message veers from bleak to abusive <p> Trump 's rhetoric at the end of his campaign has sounded a little like he 's projecting his own experience onto the nation . " Over the past four years , Americans have suffered one catastrophic failure , betrayal and humiliation after another , " Trump said in Pennsylvania yesterday , according to AP . " We do not have to settle for weakness , incompetence , decline and decay . " As usual , the stakes for Trump in this election feel deeply personal . <p> This trend continued today . " That crazy horrible human being , Nancy Pelosi , who cheats like hell ... they wasted all that time and money and energy , when we should be focusing on making America great again , " Trump said at a rally in Grand Rapids , Michigan . He went on , " She 's a crooked person , she 's a bad person , evil ! She 's an evil , sick , crazy bi -- Oh , no ! it starts with a B but I wo n't say it . I want to say it ! " <p> " I certainly do n't want any violence . These are great people , " Trump said while casting his ballot in Florida today , implying that any political violence would be instigated by those opposing Trump 's return to office . <p> In light of this comment , here is a reminder of some of Trump 's more violent suggestions just in the last few days : <p> " Let 's put her with a rifle standing there with nine barrels shooting at her , okay ? " referring to Liz Cheney on November 1 . <p> Most years , Senate races in Maryland are not particularly close , considering the state has not sent a Republican to the upper chamber since before the fall of the Berlin Wall . This year was supposed to be different , though . The state 's popular former governor -- the moderate and Trump-ambivalent Republican Larry Hogan -- was cited as one of his party 's best Senate recruits this cycle . <p> Indeed , as recently as September , Hogan was actually narrowly leading his Democratic opponent , Prince George 's County Executive Angela Alsobrooks , in the polling averages . Two months later , Alsobrooks is now leading in the same average by double digits . <p> So what happened ? Well , voters remembered that Larry Hogan is a Republican . And as much as blue-state Democrats love their affable , moderate Republican governors ( see also : Vermont Gov . Phil Scott in Vermont and former Massachusetts Gov . Charlie Baker ) , Democrats are often less eager to promote them to higher office . <p> To that end , the Alsobrooks ' campaign has been inundating voters in recent weeks with ads like this , reminding them that , while they may have approved of Hogan as their governor , he 's not worth risking their party 's tenuous control of the Senate over . <h> From Ariana Grande to Eminem , celebs speak out for Harris <p> Lina Hassen <p> While artists like ABBA , Celine Dion and the Foo Fighters have voiced opposition to Trump 's use of their music at his rallies , A-list celebrities continue to announce their support for Harris . <p> Bad Bunny , Eminem , Ariana Grande , Taylor Swift , LeBron James and , more recently , Arnold Schwarzenegger have all issued statements endorsing Harris . Swift 's Instagram post , in which she directed her fans to register to vote on nonprofit website Vote.org , has garnered more than 11 million likes since it was released September 22 . Swift drove a 1,226% jump in participation on Vote.org in the hour after the post , and new registrations on National Voter Registration Day the subsequent week reached more than 35,000 , a 23% jump from the year prior with a surge in 18-year-old registrants . <p> Beyond social media , both Beyonc ? and Megan Thee Stallion made appearances at Harris ' Houston and Atlanta rallies , respectively , in support of the 2024 Democratic nominee . <h> Trump 's incoherent campaign message on guns <p> Trump is ending his campaign having never resolved his incoherent stance on access to guns . In a new ad , Trump falsely claims Vice President Kamala Harris wants to confiscate guns . Harris has said no such thing ; she 's even discussed the fact she is a legal gun owner , which Trump -- given his felony convictions -- is not . <p> The irony here is that there is a candidate in this race who 's promoted gun confiscation -- and it 's Trump . As I wrote in August , Trump openly promoted the idea of taking people 's guns during a Fox News appearance in which he suggested bringing back stop-and-frisk policing policies that have disproportionately violated the civil rights of people of color in urban communities . <h> One reason it 's so impressive the Democrats even have a chance <p> That Democrats are looking as competitive as they are today is something of a miracle when you take stock of the international scene . Post-pandemic inflation has rocked incumbents across the world , as my colleague Jim Downie pointed out : <p> From Canada 's Liberals to Britain 's Conservatives to France 's centrists to India 's nationalists , incumbent parties are reeling , regardless of ideology . MAGA 's international wing has not been spared : In Hungary , the Fidesz party of Trump ally Viktor Orban suffered its worst result ever in a European election . <p> The Democrats ' daring 11th-hour candidate swap was risky -- but it may have been their best chance to shed political resentment over high costs and to convey a policy reset to the electorate . <h> The push to keep Muslim voters in play <p> In a race where foreign policy has gotten wrapped up in domestic politics , organizers are working overtime to persuade Muslim and Arab-American voters who might otherwise stay home because of their disagreement with U.S. policy toward Israel . <p> Emgage Action , which has endorsed Harris , is touting its outreach efforts -- 115,000+ doors knocked and 550,000+ phone calls -- along with a closing message that is notably more anti-Trump rather than it is pro-Harris : " This choice is n't about supporting the status quo -- it 's about rejecting the dangerous rhetoric and policies that have threatened Muslim Americans and other marginalized communities under Trump . " <p> In 2020 , Biden won the state of Michigan by a total of 154,000 votes . The state is home to overlapping groups of more than 200,000 registered voters who are Muslim and 300,000 who claim ancestry from the Middle East and North Africa . <p> Abbas Alawieh , who co-founded the Uncommitted group that aimed to pressure the Democratic Party to endorse an arms embargo on Israel and to press for a permanent ceasefire in Gaza , said he is voting for Harris after all . <p> " This is a moment where we have to look very clearly at what Donald Trump has planned for our communities and for Arab and Muslim Americans in particular , " Alawieh told MSNBC on Tuesday . <h> Georgia Supreme Court sets aside mail-in ballots amid delays <p> The Georgia Supreme Court ruled Monday that , amid mail system delays , any ballots received in Cobb County after 7 p.m. on Election Day through 5 p.m. on November 8 must be set aside and stored but not counted until a further higher court ruling . <p> The Cobb County Elections Department announced that approximately 3,200 absentee ballot applications were processed late due to a surge in requests . <p> Previously , a Cobb County judge had ruled that absentee ballots mailed after October 30 should be counted if they are received by 5 p.m. on Friday , November 8 . That decision was jointly appealed to the state Supreme Court by the Republican National Committee and the Georgia Republican Party . <h> The election could shape the Supreme Court -- and its docket <p> The court 's two oldest justices are GOP appointees Clarence Thomas , 76 , and Samuel Alito , 74 , followed by Democratic appointee Sonia Sotomayor , 70 . Any of them might prefer to retire under a like-minded administration that can appoint their successor . <p> Of course , any nominee needs to be confirmed by the Senate , a fact that highlights the significance of its current 51-49 Democratic control . <p> Whatever happens with the court 's personnel , the next administration will get to press its priorities to the justices . This term alone , the federal government under Biden is taking positions on transgender rights and guns that the next administration might not share . <p> But pro-Palestine organizers have created a system for voters in swing states who are hesitant to cast their ballot for Harris : The website Swap Your Vote will connect one pro-Palestinian swing state voter with two voters in safely blue states , who will cast protest a ballot on their behalf for a third-party or write-in candidate . <p> Georgia state Rep. Ruwa Romman , a Democrat and Palestinian American who was not allowed to address Democratic National Convention , has supported this initiative . She told The Intercept yesterday that it was designed for " people like me , who continue to be completely torn up about how to maneuver this election cycle as an ongoing genocide continues in Gaza . " <p> I first learned about this initiative a few days ago via John Oliver 's " Last Week Tonight , " which aired a segment on this initiative . A clip of the segment posted online has since been viewed millions of times and has helped the movement gain traction . <h> The unexpectedly close Senate race playing out in ... Nebraska ? <p> Alec Lafavore <p> One closely watched Senate race is unfolding in an unlikely place tonight : ruby-red Nebraska . That 's where Republican incumbent Deb Fischer is facing an unexpectedly strong challenge from independent Dan Osborn . Osborn , a former union leader , is running as a political outsider , presenting himself as a blue-collar everyman who can shake up the corporate two-party duopoly . <p> His policy positions are a bit of a mixed bag , with his campaign touting his support for collective bargaining and abortion rights while tacking right on immigration and the border wall . Despite his ostensibly lefty bona fides , one of Osborn 's closing messages to voters is that Fischer has been insufficiently loyal to Donald Trump -- which may be something of a political necessity , considering the environment he 's running in . <p> Should Osborn win , he has pledged not to caucus with either party , unlike other independent Sens . Bernie Sanders of Vermont and Angus King of Maine , who both caucus with the Democrats . <h> Abortion is on the ballot again <p> In 10 states , people will vote today on whether the right to an abortion should be protected . These states include : Arizona , Colorado , Florida , Maryland , Missouri , Montana , Nebraska , Nevada , New York and South Dakota . <p> The hot-button issue could well galvanize voters . This election comes just one week after the devastating story of Nevaeh Crain , an 18-year-old who was pregnant and died a slow and painful death after three separate visits to the ER in Texas amidst fetal demise . Her story captured national headlines . " Pregnant women have become essentially untouchables , " Sara Rosenbaum , professor emerita at George Washington University , who specializes in health law and policy , told CNN . <p> When abortion has been on the ballot , it has won every time . " Abortion rights advocates have prevailed on all seven measures that have appeared since 2022 , when the U.S. Supreme Court overturned Roe v. Wade and ended the nationwide right to abortion , " the AP noted . <p> Approximately two-thirds of Americans support abortion , a dramatic misalignment with the Supreme Court 's decision to overturn Roe v. Wade . <p> Abortion is , indeed , on the ballot . And true to form , Donald Trump reallydoes n't want to talk about it . In this clip below he gets visibly irritated when a reporter asks him how he voted on Amendment 4 , the ballot initiative in Florida that would enshrine the right to abortion in the state 's constitution . <p> " Just stop talking about that , " Trump snaps . <p> Nice try , I guess , but that 's not going to end the national discussion around arguably the most important issue this election cycle . <h> Michigan 's secretary of state hails turnout , warns against misinformation <p> Jeremy Hochman <p> Speaking in Detroit earlier Tuesday , Michigan Secretary of State Jocelyn Benson highlighted the energy she has seen across the state and noting they are on pace to break turnout records . <p> Benson warned voters against misinformation in the days ahead , saying that those sharing it will try to " create chaos , confusion , fear , division , and sow seeds of doubt about what is a very clear , transparent and secure election process . " <p> Benson warned voters against misinformation in the days ahead.Paul Sancya / AP file <p> " We all need to recognize , and we have evidence of the fact that foreign bad actors , will try and distract voters from the sanctity and integrity and security of our elections . Do n't fall for it , " Benson added . <p> She encouraged voters to be patient and to " respect the people and protect the people who make democracy work for everyone . " <p> Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger blamed a Russian operation for two non-credible bomb threats that led to the evacuation of two Fulton County polling places . " We have identified the source , " Raffensperger told reporters . " It was from Russia . They do n't want us to have a smooth , fair and accurate election . " <p> The Federal Bureau of Investigation said in a statement that bomb threats to polling locations in several states " appear to originate from Russian email domains . None of the threats have been determined to be credible so far . " <p> The two early morning disruptions threatened to undermine what has been a largely uneventful Election Day in Georgia , where Raffensperger reported that the average wait time to cast a ballot is only two minutes . The two polling places affected by the alleged Russian threats were quickly reopened after a police investigation . Fulton County is requesting an extension of voting hours for the two polling places affected by the threats . <h> Right-wing SCOTUS justices signal Trump support <p> Early signs have been a mixed bag , but the court most recently rejected an audacious GOP appeal that tried to block certain Pennsylvania ballots from counting . Yet , in the process of denying that appeal , three of the court 's furthest-right justices issued a statement that could encourage further Republican attempts to block votes . <p> Joined by Justices Clarence Thomas and Neil Gorsuch , Justice Samuel Alito said the case raised an issue of " considerable importance " but that , due to procedural issues in the appeal , they could n't grant Republicans relief even if they wanted to . <p> To be sure , the statement was n't a dissent -- and more importantly , it only spoke for three justices . Perhaps those are the only justices who 'd be willing to go along with any voter suppression efforts in the days to come , but one can never be sure with this court . <h> Severe weather is battering the Midwest . That has n't stopped voters . <p> Max Burns <p> Severe storms have crawled their way across the Midwest since Monday morning , battering the key swing states of Wisconsin and Michigan with gusting winds and heavy rain . So far that has n't discouraged voters from lining up to cast their ballots , with long Election Day lines reported in both states . <p> People vote at an election polling site on Tuesday in Mukwonago , Wis.Spencer Platt / Getty Images <p> Michigan Secretary of State Jocelyn Benson reports that over 3.2 million Michiganders have already cast their ballots , including 2.1 million who cast absentee ballots . That 's also true in Wisconsin , where voters braved early morning thunderstorms in order to cast their ballots . If those trends hold steady through the day , both Michigan and Wisconsin could shatter voter turnout records . <h> What the GOP 's delay strategy could mean for results timing <p> One of the major GOP strategies this election is to delay the results as much as possible -- likely because it affords the party more time to formulate a legal and political strategy to delegitimize results should Harris win , and because the optics of delayed results imbues a seeming lack of clarity . <p> " Legal challenges to results are also possible , " the BBC explains , adding that the strategy is underway . " More than 100 pre-election lawsuits have already been filed by Republicans , including challenges to voter eligibility and voter roll management . " <p> Republican election officials in Georgia , for example , attempted to pass seven new rules largely designed to delay results ( which were rejected by a judge ) . <p> If this is a close race , the GOP strategy of " delay , delay , delay " could mean we wo n't know the results tonight or even tomorrow . <h> Is this the end of the ' 270 to Win ' era ? <p> Constitutional law professor Anthony Michael Kreis posted an electoral map on X the other day with his predictions for the presidential race . At first glance , it was convincing , but readers quickly noticed that he 'd awarded Alaska to Harris and New Jersey to Trump -- a dead giveaway that it was the November equivalent of an April Fools ' joke . <p> Back in 2012 , this kind of map was all the rage . The race between Barack Obama and Mitt Romney was close , but there was something more sporting about it than the current election . <p> It became popular to use websites like 270 to Win to make state-by-state predictions . At one point , The Washington Post collected more than two dozen maps from everyone from Nate Silver to George Will . <p> Fewer people are having that same kind of fun this election , whether because of the stakes of the election or doubts about polling error or a skittishness about being proven wrong about Trump , as happened to so many in 2016 . But if you want , you can still make your own map here . <h> An election night destination for many young Americans : Twitch <p> Lina Hassen <p> While millions turn to traditional TV networks on election night , a growing number of young people will be getting their political news elsewhere : Twitch . <p> While the streaming service primarily hosts online gaming , political creators such as Hasan Piker have seen growing success on the platform . The Turkish American former broadcast journalist is among the most-viewed streamers on the site , and his 16-hour marathon stream during 2020 's election night peaked at more than 225,000 viewers . His @HasanAbi channel now has more than 2.7 million followers , meaning this year 's election night numbers will likely be significantly higher . <p> The impact of such platforms on politics is n't lost on politicians : Last week , Walz livestreamed on Twitch alongside Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez , D-N.Y. , in an effort to capture young voters . The two discussed the upcoming election as they played games of " Crazy Taxi " and " Madden NFL 25 . " <h> The Electoral College is a ludicrous system <p> Chris Hayes <p> Since we 're biding our time during the notorious news vacuum that is Election Day , I want to just say again for the record that the Electoral College is a ludicrous system . It 's both anti-democratic and sui generis -- there 's really nothing like it in any other democracy -- and it also creates all kinds of opportunities for mischief . <p> If you simply tabulated all the votes in the country , you 'd *never* have a race come down to , say , 537 votes , as it did in Florida in 2000 . But because of the Electoral College , the entire outcome can be determined by a single state and that state might have a razor thin margin . It 's a bad system ! <p> I do n't think there 's a whole lot of hope for scrapping it unless and until a Democratic candidate manages to win the presidency while losing the popular vote . A few very smart data folks I 've talked to this cycle say that while that is an extremely remote possibility this time around , it is a live possibility . <h> How much could Jill Stein matter ? <p> Green Party candidate Jill Stein is polling around 1% nationally , which , if accurate , would put her on track for a similar performance to when she last ran as the Green Party candidate in 2016 . If the race this year is decided by margins as slim as they were in 2020 in battleground states like Arizona , Georgia and Wisconsin , Stein 's presence could , theoretically , be decisive . <p> Stein has emerged as a go-to vessel for Arab and Muslim Americans to register a protest vote against the Biden administration 's handling of Israel policy . In Michigan , which has hundreds of thousands of Muslim voters , a potentially large Stein vote has put more pressure on Harris , where she 's locked in a tight race with Trump . Of course , Stein votes will not clock something else that could hurt Harris : people simply staying at home out of anger over Gaza . <h> Nevada politics prognosticator says Harris will win the state <p> Journalist Jon Ralston , founder of the Nevada Independent , predicted that she will win the Silver State in a column Monday afternoon . Ralston has an extraordinary track record , having successfully called extremely close races in Nevada for years , including those for president , governor , Senate and other statewide offices based on his close reading of early voting and polls . <p> He says that Democratic-leaning independents , anti-Trump Republicans and women motivated by abortion rights will power Harris to a narrow win . ( His prediction : Harris 48.5 , Trump 48.2 . ) <p> Nevada has been a hard state to read this year because the state changed its voting laws to automatically register voters at the DMV , leading to a slew of new independent voters that has added uncertainty and an increase in early voting by Republicans . <p> With six electors , Nevada is small but could play a significant role , especially if Harris loses Pennsylvania , the linchpin of the so-called " blue wall " states . <h> Keep your eyes on Florida early on election night <p> Florida is n't a swing state anymore , but it 's still worth keeping an eye on it early on election night . The reason ? The Sunshine State is really good at counting ballots , fast , and it 's on the East Coast . <p> When polls close in Florida at 7 p.m . ET , results will start coming in from all around the state , giving us the first view of how different areas -- and therefore different groups of voters -- are turning out and voting . <p> Though we talk a lot about " battleground states , " the election is actually decided by battleground demographics , which make up varying percentages of key states . Florida 's fast-counted ballots will be the first indicators of how those groups may be turning out and voting around the country . <p> Given Florida 's status as Trump 's adoptive home and the exceptionally strong performance of Republicans there during the midterms , there 's reason to think a Trump win there this cycle could be bigger than ever . That result wo n't tell us much about the national race , but as former Obama adviser Dan Pfeiffer points out in his newsletter , there is one county worth watching closely : <p> Osceola County , which is near Orlando , is more than half Latino and a third of the population is Puerto Rican . If Harris is overperforming in Osceola it might be the first evidence of backlash to the offensive joke told at the Trump rally . Such backlash would be a big deal in Pennsylvania where there are more than 300,000 voting-age Puerto Ricans . <p> Osceola could offer a clue about political sentiment among Latinos across the country , whose shifts could be decisive in this election . <h> Philadelphia DA to those threatening polling locations : ' Eff around and find out ' <p> To reassure voters that voting in the city will be a violence-free experience , Philadelphia District Attorney Larry Krasner had this to say at a press conference yesterday : " Anybody who thinks it 's time to play militia , eff around and find out . " <h> The stakes in Ohio <p> Yet there 's still something huge at stake for both parties that 's up in the air there : whether Democratic Sen. Sherrod Brown can win re-election . Brown 's been neck-and-neck in the polls with his Trump-backed opponent , businessman Bernie Moreno . <p> A Brown win is critical for Democrats to have a real shot at retaining control of the Senate , which could in turn play a critical role either in empowering a future President Harris or in serving as a bulwark against a future President Trump . A Brown win would also underscore the success of his Rust Belt -- friendly brand of economic populism , demonstrating how a kind of left-wing economic nationalism might be a replicable strategy for Democrats in Republican-leaning states . <p> While many people may have written off Democrats ' chances of holding their majority in the Senate , some in the party are a bit more bullish . That includes Brown himself , who spoke with NBC News ' Ali Vitali about his confidence as he closes out his high-stakes race against Moreno . <h> ' Make America Great Again ' faces off against ' We Are Not Going Back ' <p> Trump 's " Make America Great Again " and Harris ' " We Are Not Going Back " slogans capture the opposing visions that each candidate offers for America 's future , and they serve as the respective political brand for their campaigns . <p> Both Harris and Trump have anchored their campaigns in memorable catch-phrases that they have repeated regularly on the trail : <p> Harris ' labels : Harris has billed herself a " new generation of leadership " in an effort to stand apart from Biden . She embraces the label " Harris for the people " while framing Trump as " for himself . " Trump , on the other hand , has called Harris " Crazy Kamala , " " Lyin ' Kamala " and " Kamabla . " <p> " Weird " : Walz 's characterization of Trump and Vance as " weird " gained traction on social media and was picked up by other mainstream Democrats . <p> Fight : The rhetoric of fighting has been central to both campaigns . Harris often rallies her supporters with the call-and-response , " When we fight , we win . " The word has also been a rallying cry for Trump supporters . Since the attempted assassination of Trump at his rally in Butler , Pennsylvania , where he raised his fist and shouted " fight , " his supporters have taken up the chant at subsequent rallies . <p> The election : Trump 's ongoing claims that the 2020 election was " stolen " have fueled his demand for a 2024 result that 's " too big to rig . " Similarly , his pledge to " never surrender " has underscored his refusal to back down in the face of ongoing legal challenges . <h> An Instagram-famous squirrel illustrates the right-wing bubble <p> With the White House and control of Congress at stake , many conservative commentators spent the weekend feverishly discussing the most pressing issue of the day ... a dead squirrel . <p> If you do n't spend hours a day consuming right-wing social media content , you might have missed the sad tale of Peanut the squirrel , who was euthanized by New York state authorities last week and quickly became a MAGA martyr for reasons that are unclear . <p> " Are we gon na win this election because of this f'ing squirrel , " wrote one pro-Trump X user . The quick answer : No . Trump may yet win , but it will have nothing to do with Peanut . <p> But the fact that this story -- which involves state government employees who have nothing to do with the Harris campaign or really anything in the presidential election -- has become a hot topic among conservatives on the eve of the election shows how much Trump 's stream-of-consciousness approach to politics has taken over . <h> Massachusetts weighs ditching standardized test for graduation <p> Massachusetts ' Question 2 is a ballot question on whether the state 's high school students should be required to pass a standardized test , called the Massachusetts Comprehensive Assessment System ( MCAS ) , to graduate from high school . Currently seven states besides Massachusetts require students to pass an official test to graduate . <p> The Massachusetts Teachers Association is leading the campaign to ditch the test , saying that the requirement prioritizes teaching test-taking skills over the curriculum . <p> Growing up in the state , I was part of the first class to take the MCAS in 2001 , and my high school was the first in the state to protest it . In a lot of ways , the MCAS protest was my first foray into politics , so this referendum to bring about its end feels like the completion of a political circle for me personally . I 'll be watching it closely . <h> Harris narrowly ahead on PredictIt betting market <p> Harris has overtaken Trump on PredictIt , a betting market run by a New Zealand university . Bettors making wagers on PredictIt had favored Trump since early October , but the odds tilted to Harris over the weekend . <p> With a limit of only 5,000 traders per question and an $850 cap on individual bets , PredictIt has long been a resource for academics who study betting markets . That 's not the case for its main competitors , Kalshi and Polymarket , where investors with deep pockets can place big wagers ; both of those still give Trump better odds . <p> As I wrote in October when a federal court allowed Kalshi to begin taking bets , there 's a risk that those markets could be skewed by the wealthy : <p> A rich donor goes all-in , placing bets designed to make it look like a certain candidate has better odds than they do , thus raising doubts among supporters when that candidate loses , hurting confidence in election integrity . <p> Some economists worry that may already be happening , Bloomberg reports . <p> " We are sadly ready if he does , " Harris told ABC News last week . " I think he is capable of anything , as proven by what he did on Jan. 6 . " Harris did not elaborate on those preparations , but NBC News reported that her campaign has a team of lawyers ready to take on any legal attempts to overturn the election results in the courts if Trump loses . <p> Several of Trump 's allies have already suggested he is likely to declare victory before all votes are counted . One former Trump adviser told NBC News that they are 100% certain that Trump would do so : " Duh ! Is the pope Catholic ? There are few things in politics I would ever say you could make a firm bet on . That is one of those . " <h> Swing state trans voters worry about their safety while voting <p> Several swing state voters who are trans have told me they worry about their personal safety while voting and fret over their futures after an election that saw Trump demonize them for months . <p> Roxane Ridley , a trans woman from Arizona made it a point to vote early this year . " I remember what happened in Arizona last year and was paranoid about violence at the polling stations , " she said . " The biggest thing I 've just been feeling with the whole process is numb , a second Trump presidency is just too scary to feel real . " <p> A small business owner and trans woman from Philadelphia , Ellie Weinstein , worries about a potential second Trump term impact on her ability to hire and grow . " A Harris win is imperative for me , " she said . " I want to continue hiring and growing , not worrying about my and my employees ' access to healthcare , and if Trump 's tariff policies will prevent us from sourcing components for our 3D chocolate printers . " <p> Chloe Wright , from Hall County Georgia said she did not receive her requested absentee ballot and so had to do in-person voting in her heavily red district . The experience was " an absolute nightmare with MAGA signs and people all around to the limit of legality intimidating us , " she said . " We 're voting for Kamala entirely out of survival . I ca n't say we love everything about her , but it 's an existential issue at this point . It would 've been nice to have a choice , but when Trump has ruined every night of television for months with hate speech fueled ads about how he wants us dead ... well it just is n't . " <h> House Speaker Johnson visits key Pennsylvania swing district <p> Alec Lafavore <p> Republican House Speaker Mike Johnson is in Pennsylvania today for his fourth visit to the crucial Lehigh Valley this election cycle . He 's stumping for Republican congressional candidate Ryan McKenzie , who hopes to unseat incumbent Democrat Susan Wild . For her part , Wild has managed to hold on to her swingy district for three terms , and she 's hoping to beat back McKenzie for a fourth . <p> Admittedly , Johnson does n't seem to be helping much . When he stumped there for McKenzie a week ago , his comments on potentially repealing the Affordable Care Act overshadowed any positive headlines from his work on McKenzie 's behalf . Johnson later had to walk back what he meant when he said " No Obamacare . " <p> Johnson 's multiple appearances in the region are a clear signal that Republicans think McKenzie needs some help if he 's going to unseat Wild . The district , Pennsylvania 's 7th , contains a significant Puerto Rican population , and local Democrats have pounced on recent comments made at Trump 's Madison Square Garden rally that referred to Puerto Rico as an " island of garbage . " <h> Amid threats of violence , some schools opt not to be polling sites <p> U.S. intelligence agencies have warned that conspiracy-fueled domestic terrorists could pose a significant threat to election polls and workers this cycle . " Candidates , elected officials , election workers , members of the media and judges involved in election cases are among those U.S. intelligence officials identified as targets , " NBC News reports . <p> The rise in violent threats has meant that one common site for polling stations is often off the table . Many schools -- already contending with a rise in violence in the form of school shootings -- have opted out of participating in elections . <p> NBC News also reported Friday that federal authorities , while acknowledging the rise in election-related threats , are warning they are limited in how much they can respond to those threats : <p> Federal authorities also caution that their role is limited by law and by typical practice , noting that state and local officials , not the federal government , are the primary authorities on elections . The Justice Department also , by policy , has a ' quiet period ' leading up to Election Day when it avoids taking public actions that could be seen to have an impact on an election . And the Justice Department may be hesitant to do anything that could be construed as political given the extreme politicization of the country in 2024 and years of accusations from Republicans that it is ' weaponized ' against Trump . <h> 100+ attorneys demand potential election lawsuits be fact-based <p> Jeremy Hochman <p> A group of more than 100 attorneys and current and former bar association presidents signed a letter reminding their colleagues in the profession only to file election lawsuits if they 're based in fact and evidence . <p> " As leaders of the legal profession , we stand united in calling for a commitment to truth , integrity and the rule of law , " the letter says . " Lawyers who disregard these standards risk not only their careers but also the credibility of the entire legal system , weakening the democracy we are sworn to protect . " <p> When this letter was published , around 100 lawsuits in seven swing states had already been filed in an effort to shape how votes are cast and counted , according to NBC News . The letter notes that more than 600 legal cases were filed following the 2020 election and were " overwhelmingly unsuccessful . " <h> Weed and psychedelics on ballots across the country <p> Nearly 12 years ago to the day , Colorado and Washington became the first states to legalize recreational marijuana . Now legal pot is more widespread than ever , with legalized recreational use in 24 states . In this cycle , a few more are vying to join them . <p> In Florida , which already has a robust medical marijuana program , voters are deciding whether or not to adopt an amendment to the state constitution legalizing recreationalweed , as well . <p> In South Dakota , smokers are hoping the fifth time 's the charm , as voters will settle the question of legal , recreational pot for the fifth time in eight years . Neighboring North Dakota is also voting on the question of recreational weed , after its own previous failed attempts . <p> Meanwhile Nebraska , one of about a dozen states without any sort of legal marijuana , is voting on whether to establish a framework for medical marijuana . <p> And finally in Massachusetts , where voters approved recreational marijuana nearly a decade ago , voters are taking things a step further with an initiative to legalize some naturally occurring psychedelic substances , including mescaline and psilocybin ( better known as " magic mushrooms " ) . ' <h> Harris will spend election night at Howard University , her alma mater <p> Harris will watch the results of the election come in tonight at her alma mater , Howard University , in Washington , D.C. <p> The vice president spent some of her most formative years at the historically Black university , where she pledged Alpha Kappa Alpha , the country 's first Black sorority and a major cultural force that counts some of the most powerful Black women in the country , including Harris , among its members . <p> Howard has also featured prominently in Harris ' political career . It was where she announced she was running for president in 2019 , and when picked to be Joe Biden 's running mate in 2020 , she maintained a campaign office there . She also conducted her debate prep at Howard in August this year . <h> Pennsylvania sees first polling place hiccups <p> Max Burns <p> It took just two and a half hours for Pennsylvania to deliver the first polling place headaches of Election Day after Cambria County 's electronic voting machines suffered a malfunction that prevented voters from scanning ballots . Cambria County , which sits just outside of Pittsburgh , cast 68% of its votes for Trump in 2020 compared to just 31% for Biden . <p> The glitch led the Cambria County Board of Elections to file a court order extending voting hours to 10:00 p.m . ET , with county officials quick to reassure the public that no voters will be turned away from polling places . Instead , voters are being asked to submit paper ballots until problems with the county 's electronic scanners can be addressed . The nonpartisan Election Protection coalition urges any voters experiencing polling place problems to file a report at 866-OUR-VOTE or 888-VE-Y-VOTA . <h> NRA 's declining influence shown in one eye-opening stat <p> The National Rifle Association was once an electoral behemoth , but wracked with scandals , the gun lobby group has found its influence waning . <p> In 2020 , the NRA spent $29 million helping Republicans get elected . This year , they ran just one ad campaign , a $2 million buy against Democratic Sen. Jon Tester . While other gun lobby groups have stepped into the lobbying void , the NRA 's dramatic decline is interesting . <h> Beware of election falsehoods on YouTube <p> Jeremy Hochman <p> If you 're watching videos on YouTube , be vigilant for misinformation . Back in the summer of 2023 , YouTube reversed its policy on moderating and since then has not been filtering content that spreads " false claims that widespread fraud , errors , or glitches occurred in the 2020 " election . <p> Nico Grant , reporter at The New York Times , compiled extensive research done by liberal media watchdog Media Matters . His piece , published last Thursday , examines the multitude of misinformation that 's circulated on YouTube through the 2024 presidential campaign -- and how it 's " acted as a megaphone for conspiracy theories . " Media Matters found that YouTube allowed at least 22 rightwing channels to post videos that included election misinformation between May and August . <p> YouTube 's chief business officer , Mary Ellen Coe , told the Times that " what 's important to us is that we 're representing a broad spectrum of views . " <h> Trump appointee shuts down GOP challenge to DOJ election monitors <p> Earlier this week , formerBiden White House counsel Dana Remus told reporters during an on-the-record call that the volume of litigation filed by Republicans should not be seen as confirmation of the validity of their claims . Rather , as in 2020 , when Trump and allied candidates , campaigns , and organizations lost over 60 lawsuits , she told those listening that she remains confident in our courts . <p> It would be easy to be cynical about the federal judiciary at this juncture . After all , the presidential immunity decision rendered by the Supreme Court last July -- which could result in the decimation of Trump 's federal election interference case , even if he loses the election -- left even some of the court 's most ardent defenders speechless . But the first vindication of Remus'prediction came last night -- and from an unlikely source . <p> Now-federal district court judge Sarah Pitlyk , who serves in St. Louis , was one of the more controversial nominees of Trump 's presidency . A former clerk to Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh , she faced significant opposition as a nominee for two principal reasons . First , the American Bar Association gave her a " not qualified " rating due to her lack of trial or real litigation experience . Second , she was , as The Washington Post noted when she was confirmed , " lambasted by reproductive rights advocates " not only for her antipathy to abortion rights but for her " vigorous opposition " to both surrogacy and IVF . <p> Sarah Pitlyk in 2018 . Tom Williams / CQ Roll Call via AP file <p> But last night , faced with a motion for emergency relief from Missouri 's Republican attorney general , Andrew Bailey , Judge Pitlyk sided with his opponent : U.S. Attorney General Merrick Garland . Specifically , Missouri sought to prevent federal poll monitors from entering its polling places , arguing that their presence would violate Missouri election law . After ordering a prompt response from the Justice Department , Pitlyk swiftly denied the temporary restraining order Bailey sought . <p> Why ? Because the poll watchers were specifically agreed to as part of an ongoing settlement between the City of St. Louis and the Justice Department to remedy obstacles to voting for disabled city residents and to ensure they have fair and full access to the polls . In her short order , Pitlyk reasoned that " the harms to persons with disabilities that led to the Settlement Agreement and the presence of federal observers are documented and uncontested , whereas the harms that the State of Missouri anticipates are speculative -- a defect underscored by the fact that similar observers have been present at least twice and their presence apparently went unnoticed . " Ultimately , she ruled that the federal interest in enforcing the ADA , " in the absence of any non-speculative threat to election integrity , " should prevail . <p> Will other conservative judges nominated by Trump hold the line and uphold the law ? Stay tuned . <h> Key counties to watch tonight <p> Jeremy Hochman <p> While it could take days to find out who wins the presidential election , there are key counties that could offer clues to who may finish on top . <p> Pennsylvania , where polls close at 8 p.m . ET , is viewed by both candidates as a must win state . Election workers have n't been able to start processing mail ballots until today . Lackawanna County will be interesting to watch to see whether Biden was able to help sway his hometown of Scranton . Erie County is another notable region , which Trump won in 2016 by 2 percentage points , and then flipped in 2020 by Biden who won by 1 percentage point . <p> Wisconsin polls close at 9 p.m . ET and is a state that was flipped blue in 2020 . In Washington County , Trump increased his vote tally in 2020 from his win in 2016 . Meanwhile in Dane County , a strong Democratic performance helped Biden win by just 20,000 votes in the state . <p> Michigan was a frequent stop for both Trump and Harris , where the candidates each spent over 15 days campaigning . Wayne County , home of Detroit , is a key area to watch despite being won by Biden , Clinton and Obama over the last three elections . <h> Trump was his own October surprise <p> Alec Lafavore <p> Anxious partisans spent the entirety of last month with bated breath , waiting for a final external political bombshell to shake up the race . It never arrived . There was no last-minute letter from the director of the FBI nor a mysterious laptop belonging to a candidate 's son making its way to right-wing media . Instead , we had a relatively quiet news cycle heading into today 's election -- which allowed the focus to remain on the candidates themselves . <p> Harris focused on a message of quiet competence , wearing out her do-no-harm stump speech across the swing states , and keeping her advertising message focused on kitchen table economic issues . <p> While , for his part , Trump functioned as his own October Surprise , making several unforced political errors in the final stretch of the campaign . He directed violent comments toward a political rival . His campaign fully embraced anti-vaccine quackery . He had a full-blown tantrum about a broken microphone , standing behind a sign reading " TRUMP WILL FIX IT " . <p> Likely the most impactful of these mistakes , though , was Trump 's widely-criticized rally at New York 's Madison Square Garden late last month , which drew comparisons with the Nazis , and generated a ton of negative attention when one speaker made racist comments about the territory of Puerto Rico . Late polling data seems to show voters who made up their mind at the last-minute are breaking for Harris . If they are , it could be because Trump reminded them of exactly who he is . <h> Harris camo hats and Trump sneakers not welcome at some polling spots <p> If you 're planning to cast your ballot at a polling site today , it may be time to switch out your golden Trump sneakers or take off your Harris-Walz camo hat . <p> Before you head to the polls , make sure you 're up to date on your state 's election dress code restrictions . According to the National Conference of State Legislatures , 21 states prohibit campaign apparel , buttons , stickers and placards near polling sites . The laws are meant to prevent electioneering -- any written or verbal attempt by a candidate or their supporters that could be interpreted as trying to sway someone 's vote -- at or near a polling location . <p> Each state has its own policy but the ban typically applies to areas within 50 to 200 feet of a polling site . Punishments also vary by state . In Texas , for example , electioneering within 100 feet of a voting location is a Class C misdemeanor , which can result in a fine of up to $500 . <p> Last week , a Texas man was arrested at a Bexar County early voting station after he punched an elderly election worker who told him to remove his " Make America Great Again " hat . <h> NBC News Decision Desk race projections , explained <p> The National Election Pool , a consortium of media outlets that includes NBC News , works with an election data-collecting firm called Edison Research to obtain vote counts and conduct the exit polls across counties and states . <p> Here are the key Decision Desk calls and characterizations you can expect to hear from NBC News tonight : <p> Projected winner : The Decision Desk has made a projection that a candidate will win the race . <p> If a race is considered too early to call , that means that either there is not enough data to definitively determine the margin , or that a significant margin for one candidate does not yet meet the Decision Desk 's standards for a call . <p> If a race is too close to call , that means the final margin in the race is less than 5% . The Decision Desk will not use this characterization until it has statistical confidence that the race will be this close . <p> The Decision Desk will issue a leaning characterization when it is confident that the candidate who is ahead is going to win , but the race may take some time before it reaches its standards for a call . <p> Read more about the processes behind race projections below . <h> Pennsylvania could be ' the whole ball of wax ' <p> " If we win Pennsylvania , we win the whole ball of wax -- it 's over , " Trump declared yesterday , in a rare occasion when he said something aligned with reality . Pennsylvania may well end up deciding the entire election . It 's a political reality that has n't been lost on either candidate , who both spent time yesterday campaigning in the state . As Democratic Rep. Brendan Boyle said , " I think that whichever side wins here ... that will likely clinch the path to 270 electoral votes needed in order to get to the White House . " <p> With the most electoral votes of any swing state , Pennsylvania will be one of the absolutely critical races to watch -- just do n't expect the race to be called right away . Due to Republican lawmakers opting not to update election laws , officials have n't been able to start counting mail-in ballots until today , which means that it could take a little longer to get a final tally . <h> Sarah McBride is poised to make trans election history <p> Sarah McBride outside her home in Wilmington , Delaware , on Oct. 9 . Jana Williams for NBC News <p> As the country heads to the polls , transgender Americans are watching the U.S. House race in Delaware where state Sen. Sarah McBride is poised to make history if she becomes the first-ever openly trans member of Congress . <p> Polling has been sparse in the blue state but a University of Delaware poll from September showed McBride with a commanding lead over Republican John Whelan . McBride 's prospective election win comes at a moment when the national political conversation has centered trans rights more than ever before . <p> Trump 's campaign and conservative Super PACs have saturated the airwaves with anti-trans ads in a last-ditch effort to drive undecided voters away from Harris and her Democratic allies . A win for McBride could give a much-needed boost to the spirits of trans people who 've been demonized for months . <h> Kornacki : 80% of GA vote expected to be reported by 8 p.m . ET <p> MSNBC <h> A flood of TV spending defined the campaign 's final sprint <p> Max Burns <p> Prospective voters trying to tune in for their favorite television programs have never experienced anything like October . Democrats and Republicans spent a combined $529 million on TV ads during the month , according to new data from AdImpact Politics . That money went toward voters seeing two sharply different visions . <p> Over half of the GOP 's spending focused on immigration issues , while the party 's second-highest priority was stoking fears about crime . Republicans also spent nearly $19 million on ads that referenced President Joe Biden , despite his having exited the race in July . <p> By comparison , the vast majority of Democrats ' spending went toward messaging that highlighted positive economic stories , with taxation , the economy and Social Security topping the list . One issue Democrats did n't want to discuss ? Immigration . Democratic advertisers spent less than 1% of their October spending on ads that mentioned the border . That 's a tacit acknowledgement that immigration remains a weak spot for Democrats , especially in key swing states like Arizona and Nevada . <h> 3 GOP-led states challenge Justice Department 's election monitors <p> Jeremy Hochman <p> At least three Republican-led states are working to block federal election monitors from entering polling places . <p> Florida , Missouri and Texas , are seeking to stop the Justice Department monitors . On Monday , Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton filed a lawsuit saying that he " will make every effort to prevent weaponized federal agencies from interfering in our elections . " <p> In Missouri , Secretary of State Jay Ashcroft similarly said , " The federal government is attempting to illegally interfere in Missouri 's elections . " <p> The federal monitors are lawyers who work for the U.S. government but are not law enforcement or federal agents . As The Associated Press notes , federal monitoring of the polls is a long-established practice that has occurred under Democratic and Republican administrations . <p> In 2022 , the DOJ sent monitors to 64 jurisdictions over 24 states . This year , the Justice Department is sending election monitors to 86 jurisdictions across 27 states . This is a normal practice that occurs during each election to " protect the rights of all eligible citizens to access the ballot , " the DOJ said . <p> Jeremy Hochman <p> This morning , two federal judges denied -- at least in part -- requests from Texas and Missouri to block the federal election monitors . <p> As Bloomberg 's Zoe Tillman reported , U.S. District Judge Matthew Kacsmaryk in Texas did not grant the restraining order to block DOJ monitoring , but the litigation is not yet resolved . <h> Polls are starting to open . Here are all the open and close times . <p> The opening and closing times of the polls vary from state to state , with some states spanning multiple time zones or allowing counties to set their own rules . <p> Here is a comprehensive list of opening and closing times by state ( all in Eastern time ) . And remember , if you 're in line when polls close , stay in line . You can still cast your ballot as long as you 're in line by closing time . <h> Harris is banking on the pro-democracy vote <p> In her abbreviated campaign , Harris cycled through several different themes when presenting herself as a foil to Trump . She ran with Tim Walz 's " weird " putdown and emphasized how " normal " the Democratic ticket was . She promised an " opportunity economy " meant to bring down costs for Americans ( without getting on the wrong side of Wall Street and other corporate interests ) . She talked about " joy . " But her closing argument was a return to the key theme of Biden 's 2020 campaign and his since-abandoned re-election bid : protecting democracy . <p> It was a striking final note given that poll after poll shows that economic issues are top of mind for voters . Was it the right call ? In some ways it 'll always be impossible to know , because Harris ran an extremely short campaign and campaigns are rarely defined by just one set of arguments they make . But one thing I 'll be on the lookout for is what exit polls indicate about how important defending democracy was to Democrats and independents as they cast their ballots . <p> Like Zeeshan , I am very curious how many Harris voters say they made their decision based on protecting democracy , but I 'm also worried we may not find out . That 's because it can be very hard to suss out people 's reasoning from exit polls . <p> In the most famous example , many voters said in 2004 that they were voting on " family values , " which led some to conclude that the voters wanted to support gay marriage bans on the ballot . But some of the voters could have meant that they were supporting LGBTQ families by opposing the ballot initiatives . <p> That 's even more so with " democracy , " which has become a rallying cry on the right as well . Trump has argued that Harris is the one who 's a threat to democracy , a message echoed by Elon Musk and other conservatives . <p> This was borne out in an Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research poll in August , which found that 67% of Democrats and 58% of Republicans think American democracy could be at risk in the presidential election . <h> Trump 's criminal cases are on the ballot <p> If he becomes president again , his criminal caseload will almost certainly be cut in half . When it comes to his two federal cases -- for alleged 2020 election subversion in Washington and alleged illegal retention of classified documents and obstruction in Florida -- Trump said he 'd fire special counsel Jack Smith in " two seconds . " He could also attempt a legally untested self-pardon , and the Justice Department has a policy against charging and prosecuting sitting presidents in any event . <p> Trump 's two state cases could also face further delays if he 's elected . <p> The Georgia election interference case has already been halted by a pretrial appeal in which the defendants are trying to kick Fulton County District Attorney Fani Willis off the case . And Trump was found guilty at trial in New York for falsifying business records , stemming from the Stormy Daniels hush money scheme ahead of the 2016 presidential election . That one is set for sentencing later this month but could be further delayed by appeals whether Trump wins the election or not .
