<p> Welcome to The New Yorker 's live coverage of the Presidential race between Donald Trump and Kamala Harris , as well as our reporting on the contests for control of the House , Senate , and governors ' mansions across the country . Find the latest vote tallies on our live results map , and sign up for our daily newsletter to make sure you never miss an important story . <h> How the Border Fight May Affect the Vote in Nevada <p> In Nevada , where one in fiveresidents is foreign-born , immigration has historically been a winning issue for the Democratic Party . Yet , as Republicans have turned the border into a political battleground , Democratic candidates have increasingly advocated for stricter controls -- a shift that alarms activists . " The Democrats have gotten this wrong , " Leo Murrieta , the head of the community-organizing group Make the Road Nevada , argued . <p> For years , Murrieta said , Democratic leaders expressed concern for the migrant community , but they repeatedly promised immigration reform that they could n't deliver : " Time after time , we were told , ' Just eat this lemon , and , I promise you , we 'll give you honey . ' And the honey never came . " Some of this was due to resistance from Republican legislators -- but , whatever the cause , the ongoing frustration has made it harder for groups like Murrieta 's to engage voters . " We see a ton of brown men who are saying , ' Nah , I 'm good . I 'm going to vote for Trump , ' " he went on . " And we see another chunk of our community that says , ' I 'm just not even going to bother . ' " <p> Murrieta was sitting in his organization 's office , in a strip mall in East Las Vegas , where a steady stream of volunteers was coming in to pick up campaign literature before heading out to the field . Nearly four hundred people were scheduled to canvas until the polls closed , at seven o'clock . " We have a twelve-per-cent contact rate at the door , and it does n't feel like a lot , " Murrieta said . " But , when we knock on eighteen thousand doors a day , it 's not nothing . " <p> His guess was that Kamala Harris would carry Nevada by an even narrower margin than Joe Biden , who won the state in 2020 by slightly more than thirty-three thousand votes . " This is going to be a nail-biter , " Murrieta said . " If Kamala Harris can win this election , we 're talking about eight thousand , ten thousand votes -- at most . " But he and his group 's forty-one thousand members were determined to deliver the state for her . " We know exactly what Trump 's going to do , " Murrieta said , referring to his mass-deportation plan . " And that 's not something you can negotiate with . A difference of opinion we can negotiate with . " <h> A Pennsylvania Microcommunity That Could Be a Bellwether for the State <p> Photograph courtesy the author <p> The sun is settling on Broad Street in Milford , the capital of Pike County , Pennsylvania , ruby red for many election cycles . Now , thanks to an influx of second-home owners convinced to stay by COVID , Pike County is , in Democratic eyes , in play -- a region that they can nudge to purple in the all-important state of Pennsylvania . Joe Logan , a local Democratic operative , believes that Democrats can get five per cent more than they got in 2020 -- forty-five per cent of the vote . Sean Strub , Milford 's mayor , said if that happened he 'd be " astonished . " Instead , he sees this year 's work as laying a base . <p> As the evening settles in , the Trump ground game gets more boisterous , as if Halloween were back already . Men and women in front of the Trump campaign headquarters shout with delight at each honking horn as if they had never heard one before . " That 's their ground game , " sniffs Logan , an organizer for the progressive Delaware Valley Action group . " Pickup trucks with flags and signs . " Meanwhile , around the corner , members of his group -- one of three progressive organizations getting out the vote for the town and county -- are still working the phones . They are hopeful -- one member watching the voting in the town 's more conservative outskirts estimated that the usual ratio of Republican to Democratic voters has gone from four to one to " two-to-one . " The number of women voting is up nearly half , both promising signs . Things remain civil in town , if barely . " One of them called me a salad eater , " Marilyn Vasta , a Delaware Valley Action organizer , says . She took it , she says , as a compliment . A driver in an Outback toots the Trump cavalcade . " You 're driving a Subaru , I 'm so proud of you . You 're breaking the mode , " shouts a man waving an American flag with a MAGA hat in sunglasses . <p> Just up the highway , in working-class Matamoras , Walt VanDeLoo , an Albany engineer in a Forester with New York plates , is working a blue-collar neighborhood , using the canvassing app Minivan . He has on his Army cap , earned by virtue of his time in the Army Corps of Engineers . A teen in pigtails sees it . " Thank you for your service , " she says . He is abashed , trekking on in the setting sun . This area -- like most -- has been so thoroughly canvassed by the Democrats that when he goes up to a house , he often finds there 's already a blue Vote for Kamala door hanger on it . At last he comes to a promising house -- sunbursts on the siding -- and knocks . An elderly woman answers . " Did you vote ? " he asks . " Straight Democratic , " she says . " Thank you , " he responds , and looks for the next house , his thirty-fifth . <h> Will Michigan 's Uncommitted Voters Turn Out for Harris ? <p> Photograph by Emily Elconin / Reuters <p> In a hotel ballroom in downtown Detroit , across the hall from the state Democratic Party 's Election Day boiler room , I caught up with Andy Levin , a progressive Democrat who represented Michigan in the House until last year . On the lapel of his sports coat , he wore a sticker that read " I 'm cool I voted , " designed by a ten-year-old from Lansing . Levin does n't work in Washington anymore , but , for weeks , he said , " All I 've been doing is trying to help Harris win . " On Saturday night , he appeared in Warren , Michigan , moderating a discussion between Representative Pramila Jayapal and the actor Mark Ruffalo . On Sunday , he spoke at a rally hosted by the Michigan Bangladeshi American Democratic Caucus . At that event , a woman approached him and asked for advice . " Her son is twenty-four , and she could n't get him to vote , " Levin said . " She was so distraught about it . " The woman 's son , like many other Muslim voters in Michigan , could n't bring himself to support the Biden-Harris Administration , given its handling of the war in Gaza . Levin gave the woman his phone number and offered to intervene with her son , if she thought it would help . " She texted me this morning and said , ' I got him to vote for Harris ! ' " This was just one anecdotal data point , of course , but anecdotes , for now , are all anyone has to go on . " My heart and gut feel good , but my mind is a furious critic , " Levin told me . " As I heard someone say , I 'm nauseously optimistic . " <p> Since February , I 've travelled to Michigan five times , and tailed Levin and antiwar voters as they tried to push Joe Biden , and then Kamala Harris , to the left . To their chagrin , Harris did n't move much . Relative to Biden , her rhetoric seemed slightly more sympathetic to the Palestinian cause , but she never announced any major change in policy . Still , Levin said , " I think we 're gon na win Michigan , and we 're gon na win the Electoral College . " For one thing , " Trump has a ceiling . " Another factor that gave him comfort was " how Trumpy Trump is being , right to the end " -- some of the Trump campaign ads were impressive , Levin admitted , but the man himself was the antithesis of message discipline . <p> Still , the polls and the anecdotal evidence were ultimately meaningless -- anything could happen . " We could end up with this Greek-tragedy situation where Harris could have won the electoral vote , but for Michigan , " Levin said . An election , in other words , that could have been won if only the campaign had done more to reach out to Muslim voters , Arab Americans , and other antiwar progressives in the state . " I do n't think it 's likely , but I do think it 's possible . I think , every day , Was there something more I could do to forestall that ? " He sighed . " Until eight o'clock , all we can do is keep working . " <h> The Working Families Party Gets Out the Vote in Philadelphia <p> By midday , Salaah Muhammad , the thirty-eight-year-old Pennsylvania organizing director for the Working Families Party , was hearing reports of low voter turnout in Germantown , a predominantly Black neighborhood of Philadelphia . He dispatched a " knock and grab " team to go door to door in the neighborhood , with the aim of finding registered voters and escorting them to the polls . Muhammad had spent the last hundred days hosting conversations in Germantown and elsewhere , to encourage Black men to vote for Harris . He 'd heard from some who were voting for Trump , but he was n't worried . The Working Families Party had been canvassing the city for months and , on Election Day , they had a hundred people dispatched all over Philadelphia , working as poll watchers in their neighborhoods or bringing people to vote . " The Trump campaign has no program like this , " Muhammad told me . <p> Shakira King , thirty-two , was one of Muhammad 's canvassers . She voted " uncommitted " in the primaries and only decided to support Harris in September , after talking to her mother and grandmother . <p> King was working with another canvasser , Albert Knight , who was tenacious . Earlier in the day , he 'd knocked on a door and awoken a woman who said she 'd vote later . Knight told her he 'd wait until she got dressed , then took her to the polls . <p> Now Knight was trying to convince another voter to come with him , too . <p> " I 'll vote tomorrow , " the man said . <p> " Ai n't gon na be possible tomorrow , " Knight said . " You 've got to come out and vote today . " Knight handed the man a thirty-dollar voucher for a car ride to and from his polling place . <p> " Maybe , " the man said , unconvincingly . The canvassers moved on , down Germantown Avenue . <p> As canvassers worked the doors , Philadelphia 's political class met for lunch downtown , at South Jazz Kitchen , where Representative Dwight Evans , a storied African American leader , was hosting an Election Day feast . None of the politicians and lobbyists I spoke to seemed worried about the outcome . Kenyatta Johnson , the president of the Philadelphia City Council , said , of the city 's Black voters , " We 're always on the front lines of saving democracy , and we 'll do it again . " Sharif Street , of the Pennsylvania State Senate , told me , " Black men are going to vote overwhelmingly for Harris . " Nicolas O'Rourke , a city councilman and member of the Working Families Party , agreed , for now . " I think we 'll win this cycle , " he said . " But MAGA has managed to penetrate social spaces , and I 've gotten targeted mailers for vaping and crypto , and in J.D. Vance they 've shown they have a next generation . " <h> Why the Democratic Latino Mayor of Allentown Feels Confident <p> Photograph courtesy the author <p> Matthew Tuerk , the mayor of Allentown , Pennsylvania , began Election Day at the I.B.E.W. Local 375 , where Harris-Walz campaign volunteers had gathered to pick up their turf assignments for one last day of door-knocking . Tuerk , a Democrat , is the Latino mayor of a majority-Latino city in a state where the Latino vote is expected to matter a great deal . He thanked the volunteers , including residents of New York and New Jersey , some of whom had been visiting Allentown and the surrounding Lehigh Valley every weekend for more than a month . " Hi , I 'm Matt , the Mayor of Allentown , " he said , by way of introduction . " We are the voters who are going to decide this election , and on January 20th we will inaugurate Kamala Harris . " <p> Tuerk told me that he began feeling confident in a Harris victory about a week and a half ago . In Allentown , trick-or-treating always happens on the Friday before Halloween . This year , it was October 25th . He sat on his porch , sipping a Martini , and handed out candy dressed up as Joy from " Inside Out , " both because that 's what Harris and Walz say they 're bringing and because Joy 's hair is blue , the color of the Democratic Party . That day , he saw members of Trump 's advance team getting ready for the candidate 's upcoming rally in Allentown . It made him nervous to see them there . Two days later , Allentown marked D ? a de los Muertos -- again about a week ahead of schedule . While he was at a celebration sponsored by the Interlace Cultural y Desarrollo Integral Mexicano de Lehigh Valley , he missed text messages from friends letting him know about the " floating island of garbage " joke at Madison Square Garden . <p> The story only got worse for Trump in the days that followed , mostly , Tuerk believes , because Trump never apologized . Puerto Ricans and other Latinos in Pennsylvania , Tuerk said , were fed up . When I asked him how he knew that the Latino backlash he described was real , not just wishful thinking , he told me about the plight of being a Philadelphia sports fan . Every year , Eagles and Phillies supporters , he said , quietly believe that their team will win it all , but they express their pessimism publicly so they are n't overly disappointed when their teams lose . But that 's not what 's going on here , Tuerk told me , because he 's hearing from Allentownians whose decisions have been shaped by the comments about Puerto Rico . <p> Tuerk and I left the I.B.E.W. and headed to a polling site at the Allentown Agri-Plex , where we spotted a man wearing a " Boricuas con Harris " T-shirt . Tuerk went into full mayor mode , saying hello to everyone and telling them " Thank you for voting . " There was a lot of traffic , he told me , which he read as a good sign . Some voters stopped to lodge complaints : drivers driving too fast , too many fireworks on July Fourth , the wrongful arrest of a family member , and the dearth of parking spaces . During a midafternoon lull , we stopped for lunch at Union &amp; Finch , a Syrian immigrant-owned restaurant where his daughter works . He ordered a Cuban sandwich , which , he said , was about the most Allentown thing he could think of . Our conversation was interrupted a few times , including by State Senator Sharif Street , the chair of the Democratic Party of Pennsylvania , who called to tell him that the lines to vote at Lehigh University were three to five hours long . <h> The View from Fox News <p> Photograph by John Lamparski / Getty <p> In the frenzied final hours of the 2024 election , Fox News , like most cable networks , spent a good deal of airtime fiddling with large interactive election maps . Mid-morning , Laura Ingraham surmised that Joe Rogan 's late endorsement of Trump might motivate all the young men who feel " demoralized , " while Bill Hemmer , another anchor , noted that everyone would find out soon enough if the Trump campaign 's decision to tailor its message so clearly to men over women had been a sound strategy . In the next hour , former Clinton pollster Mark Penn touted Megyn Kelly -- a former Fox News host and onetime Trump hater -- who , the previous evening , had enthusiastically endorsed Trump at his rally in Pittsburgh , highlighting the criminality of immigrants and the threat of transgender athletes . <p> Midday , the feed cut to Trump , who -- sounding hoarse and looking awfully tan -- held an impromptu press conference after casting his ballot in West Palm Beach . He did not have particularly kind words for Fox , which , he complained , had aired too many clips of Oprah at Harris 's final rally in Philadelphia . " Everyone thinks Fox is so pro-Trump , " the former President said . " They 're not pro-Trump at all . " Trump at times seemed wistful ; this campaign was the best of the three he 's run , he said , and now that it would be his last , he felt " sad and very fulfilled . " His wife , Melania , looked on silently , her face obscured by massive dark sunglasses . <p> It 's possible that Trump 's grouchiness toward his favorite network might have to do with bad memories of the last election . Fox had been the first network to call the key state of Arizona for Joe Biden , and that decision had angered many Trump supporters . The days that followed the election proved to be a disaster for the network . It became a breeding ground for conspiracy theories about how Trump had actually won -- " the big lie , " as the repeated falsehood came to be known . Because of some of those lies , Fox was eventually forced into a $787 million settlement with Dominion Voting Systems , in order to avoid a defamation trial . One would think that a nearly **28;1549;TOOLONG payout might chasten Fox 's coverage in the event of a close election . Trump might think that , too . <h> Will Vote-Swapping Allow Leftists in Swing States to Vote for Harris ? <p> Photograph by Valaurian Waller / Bloomberg / Getty <p> Desira ? Simmons was sitting in her back yard in Ypsilanti , Michigan , where she has lived for ten years . She is a member of the Ypsilanti City Council -- probably , by her reckoning , the most progressive member , which puts her to the left of Kamala Harris on most issues , including the war in Gaza . " When she came in instead of Biden , I had a moment of hope -- maybe there would be a real change in policy from what the Administration had been doing , " Simmons said . " But I guess with renewed hope comes greater disappointment . " Given how close the polls were in Michigan , she went on , " I was still resigned to feeling like I had to vote for her anyway , to stop Trump . But then , when I got my absentee ballot , I could n't actually make myself do it . " <p> On October 26th , a friend told her about the concept of vote-swapping -- a tactic that , as SwapYourVote.org puts it , allows " voters across the country to protest the system AND defeat Trump on Nov 5 , 2024 . " She matched with a resident of western Massachusetts ; he agreed to cast a write-in vote for Cornel West , and she agreed to vote for Harris , despite her misgivings . In her back yard , she wore a blue baseball cap , a blue denim shirt , and two fashionably mismatched blue-and-white earrings -- one made from a Massachusetts license plate , the other from a Michigan license plate . " I posted about it on Facebook , and ten or fifteen people reached out directly , " she said , including " some people who legit were definitely not going to vote , or were not going to vote for Kamala , who now are . " Will that be enough to make a difference ? " May it be so , " she said . Either way , she 's worried about post-election violence . <h> In Wisconsin , Tammy Baldwin Is Optimistic <p> Photograph by Andy Manis / Getty <p> Senator Tammy Baldwin , the Wisconsin Democrat , stopped by the local Party headquarters in Waukesha County this afternoon to talk with a dozen volunteers as they set out to knock on the final doors of a bruising campaign . When a woman mentioned that friends in Menomonee Falls were put off by long lines at the polls , Baldwin said , " Tell them to keep at it , especially if they 're Democrats ! " <p> Baldwin , who had been on the road for four days , told me that things in Wisconsin were looking up for Kamala Harris . The polls have essentially been tied , and four of the past six Presidential elections have been decided by less than one percentage point . But , Baldwin said , " What happened this week is that people have gone from nauseously optimistic to optimistic . I think that 's all about turnout and the early vote , and we 're seeing it . " <p> The intensity of the campaign , and the depth of the chasm separating the two camps , is clear in Waukesha County , a Republican redoubt where the Harris campaign sees an opening . In hopes of peeling away G.O.P. voters , Harris held a rally there two weeks ago , joined by Liz Cheney , beneath giant signs that read " Country Over Party . " Her goal is not to win the county but to lower Trump 's numbers , holding him under sixty per cent . <p> In Waukesha County , a man who walked with a cane emerged from casting his vote at Brookfield Central High School . He backed Trump . " Nobody wants a woman President , " the man , wearing a deer-camp hat , said , declining to give his name . " I do n't know any woman who would be up to the job . When you 've got a problem , you call the guy , not the woman . " As for Harris herself , he said , " She does n't know anything . She has n't done anything . " <p> One couple split their votes . " We 've got a lot of problems internationally . She 's not up to them . She 's not capable , " Al Lessac , leaning on his walker , said . Not that he liked Trump . " He 's an arse . Pardon my French , " he said . Jane Lessac had many reasons to support Harris , from saving Ukraine to preserving abortion rights . And one other thing : " I want us to get back to being nice . " <p> With much attention on how young men will vote , Jackson Scheufele , eighteen , found it easy to vote against the former President . " I just do n't like him , " he said . " He 's not a cool dude . " Another young man , voting for President for the first time at age twenty-one , said he , too , supported Harris : " I want to protect my country , even though I disagree with some of the things she stands for . I 'm voting for country over party . " <p> Brad Raffensperger , Georgia 's secretary of state , told journalists that Russia was behind hoax bomb threats against two polling places this morning , forcing their temporary evacuation . But by midday on Tuesday , his attribution of the bomb threats was the most significant development in what intelligence officials have described as an ongoing covert propaganda campaign by the Kremlin to undermine the credibility of today 's vote and potentially stoke violence . <p> In a call with journalists around midday , Cait Conley , a senior official at the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency , said the covert foreign propaganda campaigns targeting this election were of " greater scope and scale " than in any previous election . Citing the conclusions of U.S. intelligence agencies , she said that " Russia presents , in terms of our adversaries , the greatest degree of capability and sophistication , " and had been spreading its preferred " narratives " through social media , by setting up fake Web sites that appear to be reputable media organizations , and through " deliberate outreach through chat applications targeting specific elements of the American populace . " Some of those " narratives , " she continued , " have the potential and arguably the intention of inciting physical violence , in efforts to pit Americans against one another , " and " we should expect this to continue and the days and weeks to follow . " <p> In late October , the intelligence agencies issued a stark warning about a covert Russian propaganda campaign with that objective , and since then the agencies have issued three separate bulletins debunking bogus videos or online news articles that appeared to be part of the same Russian operation . In the most recent bulletin , on Monday night , the agencies said Russian spies were " manufacturing videos and creating fake articles to undermine the legitimacy of the election , instill fear in voters regarding the election process , and suggest Americans are using violence against each other due to political preferences " and likely " will release additional manufactured content with these themes through election day and in the days and weeks after polls close . " <p> As of midday , however , the only such " content " publicly attributed to Russia was the Georgia bomb threats . Raffensperger did not say how he knew the threats emanated from Moscow , and , on the call , Conley declined to discuss that , either . <h> Will Gen Z Propel Kamala Harris to Victory ? <p> Photograph by Jared Soares for The New Yorker <p> A few days before the election , Jack Lobel , a staff member of the national civic-engagement group Voters of Tomorrow , was busy -- with the last of his midterm exams . As a college junior , he is by now accustomed to balancing the demands of schoolwork and voter mobilization , which the election of Donald Trump had induced him to pursue . The Trump era produced a seemingly durable spike in turnout among young voters like Lobel and made Gen Z decisively Democratic . <p> I 'd got to know members of V.O.T. while reporting a story that came out the morning of the first Presidential debate . Yes , that debate . Though V.O.T. had little difficulty supporting President Biden for re ? lection , Kamala Harris was a much easier sell . Within three days of her becoming the presumptive nominee , V.O.T. had more people wanting to join and volunteer than the group had had in the previous three months . " She knows that Gen Z 's votes ca n't be taken for granted , " Lobel told me . " They have to be earned . That has happened with her organizing , with her taking seriously our concerns , with her presence on college campuses . " <p> This cycle , V.O.T. says that its members have made twenty-six million direct contacts ( i.e. , texts and calls to young voters ) and focussed organizing efforts on college campuses in swing states such as Georgia , Pennsylvania , Michigan , and Wisconsin . The latest youth poll by the Institute of Politics at Harvard found that registered voters under thirty support Harris by a twenty-point margin . ( Young men , it should be noted , are much less enthusiastic about her than young women are . ) The question is whether these Harris fans will turn out in the places they 're most needed : her lead falls to nine points across the seven battleground states . Lobel was trying to summon his optimism . As Vice-President , Harris had worked on abortion rights , gun-violence prevention , and climate-change investments -- " the issues that matter the most to Gen Z , " he said . And she had the advantage of not being Trump . <p> The closeness of the race has meant that every bloc and sub-bloc was feeling a lot of pressure to clinch the vote for their preferred candidate , but it felt especially intense for young people . What if , after all their organizing , Trump still won , I asked Lobel . Would n't these young people , many of them first-time voters , be disillusioned forever ? " It would be . . . challenging , " he said . But V.O.T. would remind the stakeholders of the rebukes they 'd helped deliver to Trump and his allies in 2018 , 2020 , and 2022 . " We 've handed him three consecutive cycles of losses . We 're sure that youth-voter turnout will be among the reasons Kamala Harris is elected President , but if Donald Trump makes it into the White House Gen Z will undoubtedly be at the forefront of the fight against him . " <h> Trump and Harris Are Posting Through Election Day <p> Since around eight this morning , Kamala Harris 's official campaign TikTok account , @kamalahq , has posted at least eighteen different videos , amassing several million views on the platform as Americans go to their polling places . The tenor of the videos is hyper , in terms of both enthusiastic energy and hair-trigger Internet trendiness ; one uses an audio meme about exes to dismiss Donald Trump . Trump 's TikTok account , meanwhile , has posted only once since yesterday . The former President is busy on his own platform , Truth Social , " truthing " increasingly frequently and emphatically about turnout and urging voters to stay on polling lines in spite of possible intimidation . ( Complaints about voter intimidation most often seem to be levelled against Republicans , not by them . ) <p> The Election Day mood on the Internet , thus far , seems to be fairly quiet : it 's either too late or too early for posting . But that has n't stopped Elon Musk from dominating X , the platform he owns , and turning it into a tool to continue his campaign for Trump . In between promoting his companies ' cars and its rockets , he is sharing clips of himself appearing on Joe Rogan and complaining about the " hoax " of " legacy media . " Yesterday , he shared a video with roots in QAnon . Over the weekend , Musk seemed to be preoccupied with P'Nut the squirrel , the pet of OnlyFans creators and animal-sanctuary owners , who was recently euthanized by the state of New York and turned posthumously into a right-wing cause c ? l ? bre against big government . ( " Avenge P'Nut . " ) Researchers have determined that X 's algorithm increasingly favors the far right ; Republicans are also seeing faster follower growth than Democrats . Thus the need for Democrats to embrace alternatives , such as TikTok . To mark the end of the campaign , Musk is spending Election Night with Trump at Mar-a-Lago . <p> Ultimately , the results of the election will be instructive in evaluating just how online a political candidate should be . The Trump campaign has embraced the dark , conspiratorial fears bred among the extremely online , while the Harris campaign has paired the format of fun memes with content focussed on preserving democracy . Harris 's positive energy has inspired a rash of " libbing out " : the successor to Kamala-is-brat summer , a sheer plunge into -- perhaps unjustified -- optimism . <h> The Election 's Economic Split Screen <p> Photograph by Paola Chapdelaine / The Washington Post / Getty <p> Campaigning in North Carolina and Pennsylvania on Monday , Donald Trump tried to take advantage of the hurricane-affected employment figures for September , which showed a nationwide gain of just twelve thousand jobs . Kamala Harris , meanwhile , has been closing out her campaign bid by telling voters that her first priority as President will be to " bring down the cost of living . " To this end , she has promised to expand tax credits for parents with children , enact a ban on price gouging , and , most recently , broaden Medicare to help cover the cost of elder care . <p> The duelling messages reflect a maxim still widely accepted in political circles : outside of wartime and pandemics , Presidential elections often come down to the economic record of the incumbent party . What has complicated things this year is that many voters have a much darker opinion of the economy than many experts do . Representing the views of the latter group , The Economist recently published a special report entitled " The American economy has left other rich economies in the dust . " Since the beginning of 2020 , just before the pandemic began , U.S. G.D.P . has grown , on an inflation-adjusted basis , by about ten per cent . That 's " three times the average for the rest of the G7 countries , " the report pointed out . Other indicators , including Trump 's beloved stock market , are equally positive . On Monday , the Dow closed at 41,794.602 : since the day before the 2020 election , it has risen by close to fifty per cent . During the same period , house prices have risen by about forty per cent , and the economy has created more than sixteen million jobs -- a record only slightly blemished by Friday 's jobs report . <p> No wonder Joe Biden has been boasting about America having the strongest economy in " the whole damn world . " But it 's also easy to see why Harris , since replacing Biden on the Democratic ticket , has spent less time ballyhooing his economic record than she has reassuring voters that she understands their concerns about rising prices . In the latest YouGov poll carried out for the same Economist editors who published that glowing article about U.S. economic strength , fewer than a third of respondents said that the current state of the economy was excellent or good ; two-thirds said that it was just fair or poor . At the end of October , the Commerce Department reported that the Federal Reserve 's favored measure of inflation fell to 2.1 per cent that month , the lowest level since 2021 . But in the YouGov poll , ninety-six per cent of respondents said that " inflation/prices " was still an important issue to them . <p> Economists and political scientists will be debating for years about why the great price shock of 2021-22 has had such an enduring impact on Americans ' attitude , despite other positive news and the fact that , for many people , wages are now higher in inflation-adjusted terms than they were before the pandemic began . The Harris-Walz campaign did n't have the luxury of engaging in this discussion . It had to meet the voters where they were -- hence the new policy initiatives designed to ameliorate the impact of rising prices . <p> Recent polling data suggests that the Democratic campaign has had some success in its endeavor . For example , in a Times/Siena College national poll in September , when respondents were asked which candidate they trusted to handle the economy , they preferred Trump to Harris by thirteen per cent ; in the final pre-election survey , his lead on that question had narrowed to seven per cent . To be sure , almost all the polls still show Trump running ahead on economic issues , but narrowing the gap was one of the major aims of the Harris-Walz campaign . <p> If Harris manages to pull out a victory despite such downbeat economic sentiment , it will be a major achievement . Elsewhere , the post-pandemic , post-price-spike political environment has proved a killer for incumbent parties . In the first round of French parliamentary elections earlier this year , Emmanuel Macron saw his center-right Renaissance Party come a distant third . In a British general election in July , the Conservative Party suffered the worst defeat , in terms of the vote share , in its history . In Germany recently , the ruling center-left S.P.D. narrowly fended off the far-right AfD Party in a state election in Brandenburg ; nationally , the S.P.D. has seen its approval ratings hit record lows . Going into Election Day , Harris was basically tied in the polls . That , in itself , was some sort of victory . <h> What an Attempt to Contest the Election Might Look Like <p> Photograph by Julia Demaree Nikhinson / AP <p> Donald Trump has now eliminated any lingering doubt that he will once again try to contest the election 's results if he loses ; he is already claiming fraud . But history never repeats itself precisely . Legal experts say that , because of post-2020 election-law reforms , a " Stop the Steal " redux would follow a different course . <p> The effort to deny Trump 's 2020 defeat centered on the role of Congress , each January 6th after an election year , in certifying the results of the Electoral College . Allies of the former President sought to turn that certification -- traditionally , a formality -- into a chance for Congress to undo , delay , or obfuscate his loss . After that debacle , Congress reformed election laws to keep itself out of the business of picking Presidents . Election laws now require , among other measures , the signatures of a fifth of the members in both the House and the Senate to trigger a vote on the legitimacy of a state 's electors -- an almost unimaginably high threshold this year -- instead of just one member of each chamber , as it was in 2020 . Other provisions pin down how states designate electors , in order to eliminate the possibility of fakes crashing the Electoral College . <p> The only remaining scenario that embroils Congress in the choice of a President is if no candidate wins a majority of the Electoral College . Per the Twelfth Amendment , the decision then falls to the House , with each state delegation casting one vote . That happened in 1824 , when four candidates divided the College , and the House picked John Quincy Adams . Until the recent reforms , the electors from one or more states might have provided grounds to punt the decision back to the House by failing to show up and vote , thereby blocking any candidate from amassing a **28;1579;TOOLONG majority of the full **36;1609;TOOLONG electoral college . To prevent that , a new law stipulates that winning requires a majority only of the electors voting , not of the full five hundred and thirty-eight , meaning that only on the freakish chance of a tie would the decision fall to the House : for example , if both Trump and Kamala Harris each received exactly two hundred and sixty-nine electors . <p> With Congress safely out of the game , both Republicans and Democrats are now preparing to re-litigate the results in the courts . Professor Ned Foley , the director of the election-law program at Ohio State University , told me that his biggest worry this year was a new deadline of December 16th . That is the date set by the election-law reforms for the resolution of all legal disputes . The same way a buzzer ends a basketball game , the new law will stop the clock on any pending legal challenges or appeals , recognizing the slates of electors officially chosen as of that date . Foley told me , " I think people would be very upset if December 16th comes and goes with the sense that there was n't really closure and the clock ran out . " But he was not too worried , he continued . " Rules are rules , and the Electoral College is a crazy institution , anyway . " <p> Richard L. Hasen , a legal scholar who directs the Safeguarding Democracy Project at the University of California , Los Angeles , told me that Congress had " done as good a job as they could to try to coup-proof the Electoral College . " Yet even the clearest law goes only so far . " Could there be some people who will embrace theories that try to misread the Constitution to let them turn an election loser into an election winner ? " he asked . " I think that 's possible . But then we 're in the realm of a real coup , because then you 're misreading the law to change the results of the democratically conducted election . " <h> Charlie Kirk Rallies Republicans in Arizona <p> Photograph by Olivier Touron / Getty <p> Yesterday afternoon , at a park on the fringes of Phoenix , Charlie Kirk , the founder of the grassroots conservative group Turning Point U.S.A. , greeted an enthusiastic crowd of several dozen people . " Are you ready to win tomorrow ? " Kirk asked , before shifting to a more foreboding tone : " There are four hundred thousand Republicans in Maricopa that have ballots that have not submitted them . That should drive you nuts , right ? " <p> The Trump campaign has made the unusual move of farming out its turnout operations to external groups , primarily Elon Musk 's America PAC . In Arizona , Turning Point is leading the charge . Rather than courting moderates , as the Harris campaign has done , it is banking on low-propensity voters , particularly young men . " These are your Amazon delivery truck drivers , " Kirk said at the park . " These are the plumbers , the electricians , the welders , the landscapers . " <p> Kirk is thirty-one ; his rise to power has paralleled that of the MAGA movement , for which he 's become a youthful avatar . In Arizona , he 's worked to ruthlessly force out old-guard Republicans and made questioning the 2020 results a point of orthodoxy . This means that the election in Arizona -- a state Biden won in 2020 by the narrowest margin , in raw numbers , of any in the nation -- will also , to some extent , be a verdict on Kirk : on the wing of the Party that he represents and on his skill as a mobilizer . <p> After pushing people to question the electoral system , he 's now in the position of urging them to vote . Kirk has squared the circle somewhat awkwardly , by urging his fans to flock to the polls in such numbers that they will " outvote the fraud . " At a merch table , volunteers handed out stickers and buttons that read " Doors win wars " and " Friends help friends vote . " In early-vote totals , ballots cast by registered Republicans in the state outnumbered those cast by Democrats by around two hundred thousand , but the wild card is the sizable share of Independents ; by Election Day , around six hundred thousand of them had already voted . Winning Arizona would require turning out a half-million voters statewide on Election Day , Kirk told the crowd : " That 's a big number , everyone . " <p> Kirk , late for another event , appeared harried as elderly women lined up to take selfies with him . " We 've got ta move faster , " he said , to little effect . Before he rushed off , he briefly fantasized about an Election Day scenario : " If we surge so much tomorrow at 8 P.M. local , God willing , we 'll be able to just watch CNN , and they 'll say , Arizona 's eleven electoral votes go to Donald J. Trump . " The audience laughed and clapped , revelling in the idea of a win so big that they could believe what they saw on the news . <h> Canvassing for Abortion Rights in Nevada <p> Photograph by Frederic J. Brown / AFP / Getty <p> On a side street in Las Vegas , Briana Escamilla , the organizing director for Planned Parenthood Votes Nevada , ignored a barking dog and knocked on the door of a carefully tended house . An elderly woman answered , looking wary . " I 'm a volunteer on the Question Six campaign , " Escamilla said . " I just wanted to double-check that you were voting yes on Question Six , which protects the right to abortion . " The woman 's watchful expression gave way to a warm smile . " Of course , " she said . <p> Escamilla sighed with relief . " It is so exciting to hear that , " she said . " I also have Paul on my list here . " <p> " My husband , yes , " the woman said . <p> " He 's voting yes on Question Six ? " Escamilla asked . <p> " Absolutely , " the woman responded . <p> Question Six , one of seven ballot measures Nevadans are voting on today , seeks to enshrine abortion rights in the state 's constitution . Escamilla had been knocking on doors for weeks , as part of a statewide coalition of organizations aiming to reach a million voters by Election Day . " Nevadans overwhelmingly support access to abortion care , " she said . " Since the Dobbs decision , it would be easy for people to think that this is the country that we live in -- but it 's clearly not , especially seeing all of the other wins that abortion ballots experienced in 2022 . It 's clear that voters care about this issue . " <p> Polls show Trump and Harris effectively tied in Nevada , but the Vice-President has a substantial lead among women . Knocking on doors , Escamilla rarely encountered anyone who opposed abortion ; in a recent survey , more than eighty per cent of Nevadans said that they were against criminalizing the practice before the point of viability . When Escamilla did encounter reluctant voters , she shared individual stories of women who had decided to end their pregnancies , and asked whether they knew anyone who had had an abortion . " Most people do , " Escamilla said . " Sometimes reminding people of experiences in their own lives , or the experiences of people that they trust and respect and love , can help to break down some of that judgment and hostility . " <p> At another door , Escamilla met a service worker named Jorge . Was he planning to vote yes on Question Six ? He said that he was n't , but he did intend to cast his ballot for Kamala Harris . " I can see how somebody would be able to hold those two beliefs , " Escamilla said later . " Some people have strong beliefs about life -- when it begins , and the value of life . Those things are harder to change . " <h> Kamala Harris 's Fourth Quarter <p> Photograph by Kevin Lamarque / Reuters <p> An old sports truism holds that defense wins championships . As in sports , so in politics -- presumably . Standard Presidential campaign strategy holds that , amid a relatively fixed electorate , success essentially depends on motivating the political base . Canvassers knocking on doors are commonly told to not engage with the general public but to stick to the campaign-generated lists of people who are already seen as likely voters or supporters . <p> The Presidential contest between Kamala Harris and Donald Trump , however , has been exceptional for the ways in which it has departed from the playbook . In particular , it has been brief ( despite the widespread feeling that this election has been interminably long , Harris became the presumptive nominee just three and a half months ago ) , and both candidates have used unconventional means of communication in an attempt to not only turn out their respective bases but also make incursions into their opponent 's electorates . <p> The Harris campaign reasons that there is a cross-partisan population of voters who differ on policy preferences but share a common exhaustion with the chaos , division , and demagoguery of Donald Trump . Trump 's strategy has presumed that the crude , masculinist appeal that has won him the support of large numbers of male voters will have cross-racial success and erode Harris 's support among the crucial African American male electorate . This dynamic explains why Harris has held events with former Republican congresswoman Liz Cheney and highlighted the criticisms that Trump 's former advisers have made about him . The Trump campaign , for its part , has scarcely made public mention of the Republicans who supported Nikki Haley and might , despite her endorsement , potentially defect to Harris . But Trump has embraced a curious menagerie of B-list rappers and questionable influencers thought to hold sway among young Black men . <p> Early polls showing as many as twenty-seven per cent of younger Black men supporting Trump caused a wave of anguish among Democrats . So defense , from the Harris side , has entailed a steady stream of official endorsements from high-profile Black male supporters -- Lebron James , who has previously referred to Trump as " a bum , " announced his support last Thursday -- specific policy proposals aimed at that demographic , and direct appeals from credible messengers . That last tactic got off to a rough start . In October , Barack Obama , whose messaging instincts have generally been sterling , chided Black male voters for alleged sexist reluctance to vote for Harris . The former President 's comments were not well received and he revised his approach . His subsequent pronouncements have focussed on two themes : what a Harris Presidency would do for this portion of the community , and , significantly , Trump 's frequent disrespect for Black men . The most recent ABC/Ipsos poll , released in late October , shows Harris 's support among Black men surging to eighty-five per cent , and Trump 's stalled at eleven per cent . <p> Trump will likely not make significant inroads with Black voters this year ; it remains to be seen whether Harris will with apostate Republicans . Should neither side peel away significant portions of the other 's base , the race will return to basic principles : turnout . Defense may keep a team in contention , but victory still requires putting points on the board . <h> The County That Could Predict Georgia 's Results <p> Photograph by Elijah Nouvelage / Getty <p> Republican support has been eroding in Atlanta 's suburbs for a few decades now : Newton , Rockdale , and Douglas Counties , which have been diversifying , all went for Barack Obama in 2008 and 2012 . Cobb and Gwinnett Counties voted for Hillary Clinton in 2016 and Joe Biden in 2020 . Forsyth County , northeast of Atlanta , has lagged behind , as demographic shifts have moved more slowly there . The county , which is majority white and home to more than a quarter of a million people , went to Trump by nearly fifty points in 2016 and more than thirty points in 2020 . But there are indications that the race between the parties is tightening further . Trump held a town hall here in October , in front of an audience of women , and Georgia 's Republican governor , Brian Kemp , has made campaign visits here , too . An appearance by Kemp shortly after Democrats opened a campaign office in the county this summer was lightly attended . If the Republican grip here is loosening , the thinking goes , it will have a great deal to do with the number of white women who turn out for Harris . <p> On Tuesday morning , I spoke to half a dozen people outside a voting site in a chapel on the southern edge of the county , as a police car and a pair of Republican poll watchers observed . A forty-nine-year-old conservative accountant named Holly told me that Trump was not her first choice : during the primaries , she 'd supported Nikki Haley and then Ron DeSantis . She had been reluctant to vote for Trump " because of the division that he causes . " But she added , " A lot of it is caused by the media , too , " and noted recent statements by Oprah Winfrey that she felt had contributed to the division . Holly said that she might have considered voting for a " moderate " Democrat , who was " stronger on the economy " and less insistent about abortion rights , " but that 's not Harris . " She was voting for Trump . Larissa , a stay-at-home mom in her early thirties had an easier time with her decision : she was voting for Harris . " I do n't want Trump to be President , " she said . " I like having my reproductive rights . " Her husband , she said , was voting for Trump anyway : " But we respect each other . " A woman getting into a Toyota Prius did not want to share her name , but she said that she worked as a consultant and considered herself an Independent . She had voted for Trump in 2016 , sat out 2020 , and is voting for Harris this year , she told me . " I just ca n't listen to him anymore , " she said , before driving off . <h> Broadcasting to Pennsylvania 's Latino Voters <p> Photograph courtesy the author <p> Every weekday , from 6 to 10 A.M. , Victor Martinez speaks , in Spanish , to hundreds of thousands of listeners across eastern Pennsylvania . Hundreds more watch live feeds of his show , " El Relajo de la Ma ? ana , " on Facebook and YouTube . His politics segment is called Los Rubios Tambi ? n Lloran -- blond people cry , too -- which , he told me , refers to the fact that Donald Trump is blond and whines a lot . It 's the most consumed portion of a show by one of the most trusted Latino voices in the region . <p> This morning , it was still dark when I pulled up at his studio , a beige split-level building with a La Mega sign . The show started a few minutes after I arrived . Martinez took a sip of his Malta Goya beverage , cleared his throat , then shouted , " Levantate ! " -- wake up ! -- " the big day has arrived . " In Pennsylvania , polls open at 7 A.M. and close at 8 P.M. , he told his listeners , exhorting them to vote this morning before work , during lunch , or on their way home . <p> Martinez is a lifelong Democrat . Yesterday , he met Harris on the tarmac in Allentown , attended her rally at Muhlenberg College , and made the forty-minute drive to Reading with her motorcade . They had lunch at a Puerto Rican restaurant called Old San Juan Caf ? . Harris , Martinez told me , ordered empanadillas and alcapurrias , which she took to go in a doggie bag . A Latina who worked in the kitchen was as excited to see Martinez as Harris . <p> Trump was also in Reading , and Martinez joked on his show yesterday that there were more police in the city than residents . The fact that both candidates spent the last day of the race in Pennsylvania demonstrated not only how important the state is but also " how important we Latinos are . " This has become even more true since the Trump rally at Madison Square Garden , when the comedian Tony Hinchcliffe called Puerto Rico a " floating island of garbage . " The show Martinez did the day after those comments got more than fifty-thousand views , he told me . <p> To rally his listeners in support of Harris , he homed in on Trump 's recent statement that his second term would be " nasty a little bit at times , and maybe at the beginning in particular . " Martinez urged his listeners to " read between the lines . " He suggested it was because Trump would be busy deporting migrants and persecuting his political enemies . " You have in your hands the power to decide if that 's what we want from this country , " he told his listeners . " Do we want to look towards the future , to try to resolve the problems of the country together . Or do we want to return to four more years of this ? You decide . " <p> Martinez knows that regardless of the outcome , his listeners will want to hear from him about what it means . Then , over Thanksgiving week , he 'll be on a cruise in the Caribbean . He told me that a few years ago the cruise company started selling Internet packages , which he of course purchased . He came to an agreement with his wife that he would check his phone only when they were on the boat and that he would leave it on board when they disembarked to walk around the islands . <h> A Scene Report from Trump 's Polling Location <p> Photograph by Sinna Nasseri for The New Yorker <p> In front of the Mandel Recreation Center , in Palm Beach , where Trump just voted with his wife , Melania , supporters in MAGA gear have been gathered for hours outside the hundred-and-fifty-foot no-solicitation zone . An India Today TV correspondent was talking about how a baby pygmy hippo had chosen Trump as the winner of the election . A child wearing a Basquiat T-shirt held one of his Crocs in his hand , hoping Trump would sign it . An elderly couple were dropped off by their driver in a Rolls Royce ; the driver looped around the block while they went inside to vote . Then a blue Mercedes pulled up , with Rudy Giuliani in the passenger seat . The car idled in front of the polling station . " What happens if Trump loses ? " someone asked . He responded , " I do n't like to think about that . " Another question : " Rudy , do you worry you 'll be homeless ? " " I do n't worry about anything , " he said . Someone else asked if the Mercedes was the same one he had been ordered to turn over to the Georgia election officials he had been found guilty of defaming . His driver confirmed that it was . They took off down the street . <h> Kamala Harris Looks Past the Glass Ceiling <p> Photograph by Saul Loeb / Getty <p> If Kamala Harris defeats Donald Trump , she will become the first female President of the United States . It 's a distinction that somehow still has the frisson of a second grader 's fantasy career aspirations -- astronaut , marine biologist , first female President . Eight years ago , when Hillary Clinton ran against Trump , she made the prospect of this achievement the centerpiece of her campaign . " Tonight , " she said , accepting her nomination at the 2016 Democratic National Convention , " we 've reached a milestone in our nation 's march toward a more perfect union : the first time that a major party has nominated a woman for President . " <p> The optics and perils of working womanhood have marked Clinton 's time on the political stage . " I suppose I could have stayed home and baked cookies and had teas , " she famously told an interviewer during her husband 's 1992 Presidential campaign . " But what I decided to do was pursue my profession . " At the time , the comment was considered a misstep so grave that it necessitated a corrective lunge toward conventionally feminine domesticity . ( Family Circle quickly created a cookie contest for would-be first ladies ; Clinton marshalled an oatmeal-chocolate-chip recipe and won . ) But , in running for President , she took what had been understood as a vulnerability and recast it as an asset . She was the milestone -- voters were " With Her . " Clinton invoked " the highest , hardest glass ceiling " so often that , for Election Night , her campaign chose the all-glass Javits Center as the venue for a presumed victory party . <p> This context has made Harris 's approach to her history-making potential particularly striking . At the Democratic National Convention , in August , Clinton wore suffragette white and reminded the crowd , " We 've put a lot of cracks in the highest , hardest glass ceiling . " Accepting the nomination , Harris wore navy blue and made no mention of ceilings , glass or otherwise . Instead , her campaign has offered the implicit suggestion that a woman might run for President without particular emphasis on womanhood -- a style that has contrasted with the fevered masculinity presented by her opponents . ( Even cooking shed its gendered baggage and became simply an activity that Harris enjoys : in old video clips that recirculated this year , she expertly dices onions and offers spontaneous tutorials on dry-brining turkey . ) Harris has been far more likely to remind voters of her identity as a prosecutor . " My entire career , I have only had one client : the People , " she told the crowd at the D.N.C. <p> That is not to say that the misogyny that long dogged Clinton has vanished -- witness the ugly rhetoric of the race 's final days -- or that gender has been absent on the campaign trail in an election markedly split along gender lines . But it has been a pleasant novelty to have a woman running for President who is not positioned as a stand-in for women in general . ( It perhaps bears noting that " I could have stayed home and baked cookies " was a retort to inquiries about the ethics of Clinton 's legal work during her husband 's time in Arkansas government . ) The loss of Roe , and the waning of 2016 's girl-boss pop feminism as a branding strategy , have made it all the more obvious that a politics about one woman is no substitute for a politics about women .
