<h> What Does Robert F. Kennedy , Jr. , Actually Want ? <p> " It 's almost like he 's been body-snatched , " one longtime friend said . " I look at pictures of him , and he 's unrecognizable . His sense of humor is all but gone . There 's this anger . " Photograph by Dan Winters for The New Yorker <p> In December of 2021 , the pollster Jeremy Zogby began designing a national survey to capture the radical changes that he believed were under way in American life nearly two years into the pandemic . Zogby , who is an avid reader of the psychologist Carl Jung , was especially curious about the kinds of people that Americans considered " heroic , " and he came up with a list of archetypes . There was the spiritual leader , the Pope ; the female entrepreneur , Oprah ; the rogue pundit , Tucker Carlson ; and the philanthropist-scientist , Bill Gates . Joe Biden and Donald Trump , as the presumptive Presidential nominees of the major parties , were also included . Robert F. Kennedy , Jr. , the nephew of John F. Kennedy and a prominent opponent of vaccine mandates , struck Zogby as the quintessential COVID protester . When the results of the poll came back , Zogby was shocked to find that Kennedy topped the list . " What it told me was that the name still meant something in the political landscape , " he said . <p> Zogby flew out to California , where Kennedy lives with his third wife , the actor Cheryl Hines . At the time , leaders in the anti-vaccine movement were encouraging Kennedy , who has long expressed the widely refuted belief that vaccinating children can cause autism , to consider a Presidential bid . Kennedy was skeptical . " I thought about it a little , but I just did n't want to run if I could n't win , " he said . " I knew that Cheryl would never go for it . " <p> Kennedy was introduced to Hines by Larry David , her co-star on the HBO series " Curb Your Enthusiasm . " ( David had met Kennedy through his work in the environmental movement . ) In 2022 , after Kennedy compared America 's COVID-vaccine protocols to the fascism of the Third Reich -- " Even in Hitler 's Germany , you could cross the Alps into Switzerland , you could hide in an attic like Anne Frank did " -- he suggested to Hines that they publicly separate in order to save her reputation in Hollywood . But Zogby 's polls showed that , " despite all the bad publicity , " Kennedy said , " I still had a lot of popular strength . " That summer , Facebook and Instagram shut down the accounts of his anti-vaccine organization , Children 's Health Defense , for spreading misinformation . Instagram had suspended his personal account a year earlier . Kennedy told me , " I started thinking , Well , the one place that they could n't censor me was if I was running for President . " <p> In April , 2023 , Kennedy announced that he would be running for the Democratic nomination . It was a month before a campaign manager came on , the former Democratic congressman Dennis Kucinich . Kennedy 's campaign co ? rdinator in New Hampshire , meanwhile , was Rhonda Rohrabacher , the wife of the former Republican congressman Dana Rohrabacher , who was once warned by the F.B.I . that the Russian government was trying to recruit him as an intelligence asset . That October , after it became clear that Kennedy would n't be competitive in the Democratic primary , he declared his intention to run as an independent . " The Democrats are frightened that I 'm going to spoil the election for President Biden , and the Republicans are frightened that I 'm going to spoil it for Trump , " Kennedy said . " The truth is -- they 're both right . My intention is to spoil it for both of them . " <p> Kennedy 's views are heterodox . He inveighs against the American " war machine , " opposing military aid to Ukraine , but supports Israel 's war in Gaza . He is pro-choice and also wants to " seal " the southern border . On the campaign trail , he has embraced his status as an oddball and an outsider . In May , the Times reported that Kennedy had once testified , in a divorce deposition , that a parasitic worm had eaten part of his brain ; in response , he posted on X , " I offer to eat 5 more brain worms and still beat President Trump and President Biden in a debate . " When the Department of Homeland Security denied his requests for a Secret Service detail -- typically , such protection is provided only to " major " candidates -- the campaign made T-shirts featuring an image of Kennedy , in an airport , wearing a full suit but no shoes or socks , with the words " NO SHIRT NO SHOES NO SECRET SERVICE . " ( In July , after Trump was nearly assassinated at a rally in Pennsylvania , Biden instructed the Secret Service to assign a team to Kennedy . ) <p> Nationally , Kennedy 's polling numbers are hovering around five per cent of the vote , and he has shown particular strength among young and Latino voters . In the battleground states of Arizona , Nevada , Georgia , and Wisconsin , all of which Biden narrowly won in 2020 , Kennedy 's presence carries the distinct possibility of swinging the race . " He can have an impact in any of these states , because you 're looking at ten thousand to twenty thousand votes , " Spencer Kimball , the director of Emerson College Polling , told me . Kennedy 's approval ratings tend to be higher among Republicans , but Timothy Mellon , a billionaire who backs Trump , has given twenty-five million dollars to a Kennedy-affiliated super PAC -- a suggestion that , in some circles at least , the Kennedy campaign has been seen as a potential spoiler for Democrats . <p> " Before you go into the quiet room , would you like a bucket of the loudest food on the planet ? " <p> Cartoon by Asher Perlman <p> Link copied <p> Kennedy 's family members have been nearly unanimous in opposing his campaign . Last fall , four of his siblings released a statement calling his run " perilous for our country . " In private , some have bristled at what they see as a flagrant misuse of the family 's legacy . A Super Bowl spot from Kennedy 's super PAC borrowed the ditty of his uncle 's famous 1960 television ad -- " a man who 's old enough to know and young enough to do . " ( Kennedy later issued an apology : " I 'm so sorry if the Super Bowl advertisement caused anyone in my family pain . " ) At a campaign event in Detroit this spring , the walls of the venue 's lobby displayed various illustrations of Kennedy , including one of him as a knight pulling a sword from a stone labelled " Camelot . " A family member who has urged Kennedy to drop out of the race told me , " He 's very much running on perpetuating an unfinished Presidential campaign from 1968 . " <p> In May , I flew to Atlanta to speak with Kennedy , and we met in his suite at the St. Regis . Kennedy has the septuagenarian face that his father and his uncle never got to age into , which lends him the unsettling effect of a black-and-white photo come to life . His startlingly blue eyes contrast sharply with a shock of white hair , which he stopped dyeing a decade ago . On the trail , he favors skinny ties , often with critters on them -- flamingos , bees -- and gray suits , a sartorial nod to the nineteen-sixties , when his family set the standard for preppy American glamour . He has suffered from spasmodic dysphonia , a neurological vocal-cord condition , for more than two decades , and it gives his voice a distinctive , halting rasp that he himself has said is difficult to listen to ; in 2022 , he travelled to Japan to have a titanium bridge inserted in his throat , a relatively niche treatment intended to mitigate vocal strain . <p> In Atlanta , I asked Kennedy how his family 's legacy had influenced his own political aspirations . " It was realistic to think of myself in the Senate , " he said . He added that his uncle Edward Kennedy , a senator from Massachusetts for forty-seven years , " had enormous fun in that job . " But , when it came to the Presidency , " I think I was always conscious that it was kind of a dangerous thing to make that my ambition , " he said . " I always had at least a part of me that recognized the implausibility of ever achieving that . " <p> As we spoke , Kennedy occasionally grabbed at a fruit platter that sat on the table between us , munching first on some blueberries before going back for a slice of watermelon . Running for President , he said , presented " the danger of hubris and arrogance . " <p> Two weeks earlier , I had driven to a public library in North Kingstown , Rhode Island , to meet with Charles Eisenstein , who has called himself Kennedy 's " campaign philosopher . " A graduate of Yale , he spent his twenties in Taiwan , working as a translator and becoming immersed in Buddhism and Taoism . " I just completely left the system , " he said . At forty , Eisenstein published " The Ascent of Humanity , " which he told me was " partly a critique of technology and civilization itself . " " I study the transition in the defining myths of our civilization , " he said . " The deep stories that we 're not even really aware of , that answer questions like ' What is the human being ? Why are we here ? How does change happen in the world ? ' " <p> Eisenstein , who wore a flannel shirt and a thin necklace , is fifty-six and gaunt , with flecks of white in his hair and a wide , toothy grin . In 2021 , as he became increasingly critical of COVID safety measures , he wrote a Substack post called " Mob Morality and the Unvaxxed , " in which he compared unvaccinated people to historical scapegoats , including Jews in Europe . " That really got me cancelled , " Eisenstein told me . " The terms ' misinformation ' and ' disinformation ' have been adopted by governments and corporations to quash dissent . That 's one of the things that drew me to Bobby Kennedy . " <p> In early 2023 , Eisenstein struck up a conversation with Kennedy at a fund-raising event for Children 's Health Defense . ( A subscriber of Eisenstein 's Substack had won a raffle to attend and asked him to come along . ) Kennedy , who was a month or so from officially launching his bid , invited Eisenstein to share some of his ideas with the campaign 's inner circle , many of whom had similarly gained notoriety for expressing anti-establishment views . Del Bigtree , his communications director , is the founder of the Informed Consent Action Network , an anti-vaccine advocacy group ; at a rally in Texas in 2019 , he wore a yellow Star of David , apparently as a symbol of the persecution of people who refuse to vaccinate their children . Amaryllis Fox Kennedy , who had joined the campaign in an unofficial capacity , is married to Kennedy 's oldest son , Robert F. Kennedy III . Her memoir , from 2019 , about working as an undercover officer for the C.I.A . -- which included details of a meeting with " a feared and battle-hardened jihadi " -- was met with skepticism by members of the intelligence community . " You do n't go wandering around Karachi on your own , " William Murray , a former C.I.A . operations official , told one interviewer . " You 'll wind up in some warlord 's harem , or you 'll wind up dead . " <p> Shortly after Kennedy announced his decision to run as an independent , Kucinich quit and was replaced by Fox Kennedy . Without the backing of a major party , the campaign had to gather hundreds of thousands of signatures to secure ballot access across the country . Nicole Shanahan , the billionaire ex-wife of Sergey Brin , a co-founder of Google , was chosen as Kennedy 's running mate in part because she could help finance the effort . <p> Kennedy ultimately appointed Nick Brana , a former **27;2775;TOOLONG co ? rdinator for Bernie Sanders and the founder of the progressive group the People 's Party , to run his ballot-access operation . Two years earlier , Brana had allegedly tried to force himself onto a female colleague , an accusation that was corroborated by a woman who had walked in on the scene . ( Brana has said that the allegation is " false and politically motivated . " ) The campaign and its super PAC have spent millions of dollars working with firms associated with a ballot-access consultant named Trent Pool . In May , Pool was arrested in New York for choking and punching a woman . ( A lawyer for Pool called it " a completely unjustified prosecution . " ) So far , Kennedy has got his name on the ballot in about a dozen states . <p> The campaign has also been beset by disagreements on policy and messaging . Eisenstein nearly quit because of Kennedy 's support for Israel . " He invited me to his house , and we had a pretty long conversation , " Eisenstein said . " But I would n't say it 's resolved . It 's still a point of contention . " In 2023 , at the Iowa State Fair , Kennedy told reporters that he was in favor of federal legislation banning abortion after the first three months of pregnancy , a statement that the campaign quickly walked back . In 2024 , he told the podcaster Sage Steele that he did n't believe in any government interference in a woman 's choice . In response , Angela Stanton King , Kennedy 's adviser on Black-voter engagement and a former Trump supporter , resigned from the campaign . Even his running mate appeared confused . " My understanding is that he absolutely believes in limits on abortion , and we 've talked about this , " Shanahan had told Steele in an episode released a week earlier . In a statement on X , Kennedy said that he supported " the emerging consensus that abortion should be unrestricted up until a certain point . " Kennedy told me that his views had been influenced by his wife and her older sister : " They were all on the phone with me , hot as hornets , and said , ' It 's always got to be the woman 's right to choose . ' " <p> On the campaign trail , Kennedy tells crowds that he wants to redefine which issues should actually matter to them . Abortion , guns , border security , and transgender rights , he says , are distractions that career politicians use to divide voters . He calls chronic disease an " existential " threat facing the U.S. " The cost of diabetes now in this country is higher than the defense budget , " Kennedy told the conservative podcaster Ben Shapiro . In an interview with the podcaster Todd Ault , he said , " Our kids are all on Adderall . They 're all on S.S.R.I.s . Why ? Doctors did n't just start prescribing these for no reason . We have damaged this entire generation . We have poisoned them . " <p> " Seen a horse ? Of course I 've seen a horse ! " <p> Cartoon by Emily Bernstein <p> Link copied <p> Notably , there is n't much talk of vaccines at Kennedy 's campaign events . " I think what Kennedy learned along the way is that it 's not in his interest to go after Tony Fauci and to say , ' Lock him up , ' " Zogby , who has conducted polling for the campaign , told me . Kennedy now typically deploys euphemisms such as " medical freedom " and " informed consent " when referring to the issue . <p> The candidate has sought to widen his appeal in other ways , too . Recently , his campaign released a slick thirty-minute video with a voice-over by Woody Harrelson . In the opening , Kennedy reads a selection of headlines and excerpts from articles criticizing him . " He is a walking , talking conspiracy theory , " Kennedy intones , quoting the Times . " He is a crank who cranks out whoppers the way Taylor Swift disgorges perfect pop songs . " Then he says matter-of-factly , " I would n't vote for that guy , either . " A title card flashes onscreen : " Who is Bobby Kennedy ? What if he 's not crazy ? " <p> Kennedy was born in 1954 , to Robert F. Kennedy and Ethel Skakel ; he was the third of their eleven children . At the time , his father was a Democratic attorney on the Senate 's Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations , which was then chaired by Joseph McCarthy . Kennedy spent most of his childhood at Hickory Hill , an estate in McLean , Virginia , that had once served as General George McClellan 's headquarters for the Union Army . The home became something of a second White House during the Kennedy Administration . Young women from the Justice Department would babysit . The adults worked and mingled ; the children would swim and play touch football . <p> Les Guthman , whose father was R.F.K. 's press secretary , recalled visiting on the weekends . " I remember meeting Bobby , I think when he was about nine years old , " Guthman said . " And he had dozens of animals . " Kennedy wanted to be a veterinarian , and the house and grounds were filled with creatures -- horses , ducks , dogs , a seal , a giant leopard tortoise . Ethel , whose father had made a fortune selling chemical coke for blast furnaces , was herself an animal-lover ; in 1963 , she directed Kennedy and his older brother , Joseph , to steal a neighbor 's horses because she felt they were being mistreated . " I think my mom liked that chaos , and she endorsed risktaking , " Kennedy told the journalist David Samuels last year . He and his siblings were always outside , getting into some kind of trouble . " There were a lot of emergency-room visits , " he said . <p> R.F.K. nurtured his son 's love of nature , too , outfitting the house with a walk-in terrarium for his son 's collection of lizards . When Kennedy was eleven , he injured his foot jumping off a roof . During his recovery , his father bought him a red-tailed hawk , igniting a lifelong passion for falconry . Kennedy has said that , as a child , he had difficulty concentrating in school . " I broke thermometers and rolled balls of mercury down my desk , " he wrote in his 2018 book , " American Values . " " I doodled hawks and iguanas and daydreamed about Hungarian homing pigeons . " He seemed to thrive on the reactions that his unusual hobbies elicited . One of Kennedy 's cousins told me , " He wanted to have something that makes you go , ' Oh , wow ! ' " <p> On June 5 , 1968 , Kennedy 's father won the Democratic Presidential primary in California . He had just delivered his victory speech , in the ballroom of the Ambassador Hotel , in Los Angeles , when he was shot by Sirhan Sirhan . In an iconic photograph from that night , Ethel can be seen crouching over her husband , clasping his hands . Kennedy 's younger brother David , who was then thirteen , had travelled with his parents and stayed up late in the hotel room to watch his father 's speech ; he saw the assassination unfold on live TV . Because of the chaos , it was several hours before anyone thought to check on him . He was discovered , with the television still on , unable to speak . <p> Kennedy and his older siblings flew to California to say goodbye to their father , who was in the hospital on life support . Kennedy , fourteen years old , with a thick mop of hair , served as a pallbearer at the burial , in Arlington National Cemetery . Afterward , at their home in Virginia , he went into his father 's study , which still smelled of his cologne , and looked at the pictures on the wall : Uncle Joe , a naval aviator who died in the Second World War ; Aunt Kick , killed in a plane crash at the age of twenty-eight ; Uncle Jack , assassinated five years earlier . " I remember sitting there thinking they all looked so young , and they were all dead , " Kennedy told an interviewer in 1993 . " And I lay there and wept for probably an hour or more . " <p> Kennedy has said that he subscribes to the theory that Sirhan , who opposed R.F.K. 's support of Israel , was not the only participant in the assassination . In 2018 , when Kennedy 's older sister , Kathleen Kennedy Townsend , told the Washington Post that she thought the investigation should be reopened , she said , " Bobby makes a compelling case . " R.F.K. , for instance , suffered a fatal wound behind his ear , but Sirhan , who was convicted of the killing , was standing in front of him . ( Investigators have said that R.F.K. turned away from the shooter . ) Kennedy has gone further , arguing that his father was assassinated by a supposed C.I.A . asset named Thane Eugene Cesar , who had recently been hired as a security guard at the hotel ; the C.I.A . refutes this . When Sirhan was recommended for parole , in 2021 , Ethel and most of her children opposed his release , but Kennedy and his younger brother Douglas , a Fox News reporter , advocated for it . ( Ultimately , California 's governor , Gavin Newsom , reversed a parole board 's decision to release Sirhan . ) <p> Kennedy also believes that J.F.K. 's death was part of a C.I.A . conspiracy . In " American Values , " he recounts his father 's early fears that members of the agency , angered by efforts to curtail their sprawling powers , had been involved in J.F.K. 's assassination . " My dad immediately suspected that the CIA had killed Uncle Jack , " Kennedy writes . " He called a yet-unidentified CIA official and asked point-blank , ' Did your outfit have anything to do with this horror ? ' " <p> Such suspicions are a theme of Kennedy 's thinking . In 2016 , he published a book about the conviction of his cousin Michael Skakel , in 2002 , for the 1975 murder of fifteen-year-old Martha Moxley , in Greenwich , Connecticut . The case against Skakel was built on circumstantial evidence and fuelled by media speculation . In 2018 , his conviction was vacated on the ground that his defense had been inadequate . But Kennedy 's version of events was widely seen as outlandish . His book raised the possibility that the crime had been committed by two young men of color from New York City -- " unusually big , muscular , and tall " -- who were friends with a classmate of Skakel 's and who , the classmate claimed , had been in Greenwich that night . The Connecticut Division of Criminal Justice released a statement calling the book " inflammatory , " noting it provided " no valid or new information . " <p> A year after his father 's death , Kennedy dropped acid in Hyannis Port . He was having a good trip until he went into a diner , looked up , and noticed a picture on the wall of his father , his uncle , and Jesus Christ , their hands folded in prayer . The sight sent Kennedy into a tailspin . Walking home in the Cape Cod morning air , he ran into a group of boys and told them that he was feeling down . They offered him a bump of meth to improve his mood . For the next fourteen years , Kennedy has said , his life was a merry-go-round of chasing a high and coming down into a deep despair . <p> Ethel , at forty , had become a single mother of eleven children -- Kennedy 's youngest sibling , Rory , was born six months after R.F.K. 's funeral . Ethel delegated the care of Kennedy to Lem Billings , a close family friend who had been J.F.K. 's roommate at Choate . " I had a very troubled relationship with my mom , but I had people in my life from whom I experienced unconditional love , " Kennedy told me . " One of them was a woman who was a housekeeper , a nanny at my home , a Costa Rican woman named Ena Bernard . I felt profound love from her . And I felt that from Lem . " <p> When Kennedy arrived at Harvard , in 1972 , he was a celebrity -- cool , pleasant , and handsome , with high cheekbones and long , wavy hair . In his room at Winthrop House , he had a water bed ; when he moved off campus , he kept a pet owl . He rowed crew and developed close relationships with faculty members , including Robert Coles , a child psychiatrist and a Pulitzer Prize-winning writer , and Marty Peretz , the former publisher of The New Republic , who was then a lecturer at Harvard . Kennedy was " a smart boy and a bad influence , " Peretz wrote in his memoir . Peter Kaplan , who would later edit the New York Observer , was among Kennedy 's closest friends . Their sophomore-year roommate Locke Bowman said , " It was just a constant stream of women and friends . " <p> " He 's one of those people who sit in an ice bath every morning and think you should , too . " <p> Cartoon by William Haefeli <p> Link copied <p> Many people around Kennedy seemed to think that he was destined for the White House , a notion that he did little to dispel . His cousin and Harvard classmate Stephen Smith , whose father helped manage R.F.K. 's Presidential campaign , told me , " He always wanted to be President . " <p> It was the early seventies , and drugs -- pot , cocaine , barbiturates -- were ubiquitous . Kennedy has said that he first tried heroin at the age of fifteen . After Kennedy 's brother Joseph flipped his car on Nantucket , paralyzing one of his passengers , a friend at Harvard recalled watching Kennedy tie off and shoot up in his dorm room . " Our family , at least the generation that preceded me , went through difficulties , but they had what Bob Coles called the ability to transfigure their suffering , " Smith told me . " J.F.K. became a more deep and interesting person because of his war experience , and Robert F. Kennedy became a deeper and more compassionate person because of the loss of his brother . Bobby seems to have had a maladaptive approach to that experience . " Drugs could be a part of that , Smith said , but there was also something more : " The way I think Bobby compensated for his lack of a close relationship with his parents was to surround himself with the comfort of acolytes . " <p> Billings , who was then in his fifties and working as an advertising executive in New York , was a frequent presence at Harvard . He and Kennedy did drugs together , even as Billings encouraged the notion that Kennedy was the heir apparent to the family 's political dynasty . " He was more of a comrade-follower who adored Bobby , " a family member said . Bowman , Kennedy 's college roommate , found Kennedy 's relationship with Billings " weird . " A longtime Kennedy friend told me that he had always found Billings " creepy " and thought that Billings was in love with Kennedy . <p> In the book " The Kennedys : An American Drama , " which the journalist David Horowitz co-authored with Peter Collier , an ex-girlfriend of one of Kennedy 's cousins described a typical scene at Billings 's apartment , on Manhattan 's Upper East Side : " There was always the period of sitting around making small talk . It was really a period of waiting for somebody to decide when and how we were going to score . Then there would be the fighting over who got to do it first . Bloody needles . Doors slamming . Lem in his bathrobe and shorts yelling , ' Bobby , get in here quick , ' and then going in to get his shot . The women were supposed to sit there waiting for the drug leftovers . It was always a macho scene , a shoot-out : which of them could do the most drugs , which of them could do the most women . " <p> Kennedy attended Harvard with his younger brother David , who was also drawn to the drug scene . But while Kennedy was able to turn his senior thesis -- on the Alabama judge and champion of civil rights Frank M. Johnson -- into a book , David struggled . " He was always coming around -- ' Anybody got anything ? I need some , ' " the Harvard friend said of David . " He seemed really lost , and that was really sad . " Another person who knew Kennedy at Harvard recalled seeing Ethel walking with Kennedy and David down a street in Cambridge , screaming at them at the top of her lungs . ( David would die of a drug overdose , in a Palm Beach hotel room , at the age of twenty-eight . ) <p> After graduating from Harvard , Kennedy attended the University of Virginia law school , where he met his first wife , Emily Black , an Indiana native and the daughter of a widowed schoolteacher . He took a leave of absence to work on Edward Kennedy 's 1980 Presidential campaign and , according to the longtime friend , spent much of it on the campaign trail in Alabama , high on speedballs . He also allowed Horowitz to tag along . In Jerry Oppenheimer 's book " RFK Jr. : Robert F. Kennedy Jr . and the Dark Side of the Dream , " from 2015 , Horowitz said he was shocked by Kennedy 's reckless behavior , particularly when it came to women . According to Horowitz , Kennedy had a fling in every city they visited during a three-day swing of Alabama . " It was just insanity , compulsive , nutty with him , " Horowitz said . <p> A number of people who are close to Kennedy described him to me as a lifelong philanderer . " He has a very addictive nature , whatever it is -- whether it 's drugs , whether it 's sex , whether it 's attention , " the longtime Kennedy friend said . Recently , Vanity Fair reported that Kennedy had groped a babysitter who 'd cared for his kids ; according to the Washington Post , after the article appeared , Kennedy sent the woman an apologetic text . Kennedy has developed campaign talking points about his former drug use -- he had " a big empty hole inside " that needed filling -- and speaks of making , and sometimes breaking , contracts with himself . He told me that his will power is " iron " in all parts of his life outside of his drug use . <p> In September , 1983 , Kennedy was on a flight to South Dakota , where he planned to get treatment for drug addiction , when he overdosed on heroin in the airplane 's bathroom . He and Black had married and moved to New York the year before . Kennedy had been named an Assistant Manhattan District Attorney , a job he 'd held for a year , despite failing the bar twice . ( He passed on the third try . ) Billings , who 'd died two years earlier , had left Kennedy his Upper East Side apartment . Kennedy would regularly ride the subway uptown to purchase drugs in Harlem . After the plane landed , in Rapid City , Kennedy , who was twenty-nine , was arrested on the tarmac , an event that made national news . <p> Kennedy spent five months in a New Jersey rehab facility . He 'd pleaded guilty to possession charges and was sentenced to two years probation and fifteen hundred hours of community service . To fulfill the requirements , he began volunteering with the Natural Resources Defense Council , an environmental legal-advocacy group . " I decided now to explore job opportunities in areas that felt truer to my earlier aspirations , " Kennedy wrote in his book " The Riverkeepers , " from 1997 , co-authored with the environmentalist John Cronin . John Adams , the N.R.D.C. 's founding director , helped Kennedy stabilize his life . For a time , Kennedy would visit Adams and his wife every day at their home . <p> In 1984 , Adams helped Kennedy get work as a pro-bono lawyer for the Hudson River Fishermen 's Association , which had been founded , in 1966 , by Robert Boyle , a former marine and a Sports Illustrated writer . A year earlier , the group had launched Riverkeeper , a patrol boat that monitored and reported polluters on the Hudson River . " It was an English concept , " Boyle 's son Alex told me . ( Robert Boyle died in 2017 . ) " A lord who owned a manor , to protect from trespassers and poachers , would have a gamekeeper . They would have a riverkeeper . " Riverkeeper collected a portion of the fines that were levied against the polluters they caught . Kennedy and Black moved , with their two children , into a large home not far from the Hudson River , in New York 's Westchester County . <p> One of Kennedy 's first projects was helping to bring charges against polluters of Quassaick Creek , a tributary in the lower Hudson River Valley . Kennedy and Cronin swam the creek 's contaminated ponds and streams to gather samples , and they sneaked onto factory rooftops to record evidence of illegal dumping . They eventually identified sixteen polluters , all of whom settled without going to trial , bringing in two hundred thousand dollars in revenue for Riverkeeper . Alex Boyle , who was then a college student , worked with Kennedy on the project . " He realized that this was his ticket back to legitimacy , " Boyle said . " He wanted to muscle in and claim the credit . " <p> But Boyle 's father saw Kennedy as an asset , particularly for fund-raising . Kennedy used his cachet and his genuine fascination with nature -- he kept a pet crow at his desk in the Riverkeeper office -- to draw celebrities to the organization 's galas . Lorraine Bracco , Uma Thurman , Glenn Close , and Alec Baldwin became supporters . Liz Barratt-Brown , who worked closely with Kennedy at the N.R.D.C. , told me , " He had some sense of who he was and where he was and the world around him and how he could use his name and , really , his ego to do good . " <p> Cartoon by Jeremy Nguyen <p> Link copied <p> In 1987 , Kennedy began to help run an environmental-law clinic at Pace University and worked with Barratt-Brown at the N.R.D.C. on an international program that advocated for environmental rights . He also began a lucrative speaking career , eventually earning as much as two hundred and fifty thousand dollars at overseas engagements . Kennedy seemed to enjoy the attention . The Times book review of " Riverkeepers " noted that it was " tedious to read a list of Kennedy 's Op-Ed pieces , to be given accounts of calls from CBS and NBC and front-page articles in The New York Times . No doubt gaining press coverage is an important tactic , but it is treated almost as an achievement in itself . " <p> At Riverkeeper , Kennedy 's relationship with Robert Boyle became increasingly tense . " In the beginning , Kennedy was all right , " Boyle later told New York magazine . " But then he started throwing his weight around . " In 2000 , Boyle became apoplectic when he discovered that Kennedy had hired a staff scientist who 'd been arrested for running a rare-bird-smuggling ring . Boyle demanded that Kennedy fire him . Instead , Kennedy won the support of the board ; the man remained on staff . Boyle resigned . " He just became very hostile , " Kennedy told the Washington Post this year . " Bob Boyle was always a curmudgeon , and that was part of his charm . And he became increasingly charming with age . " Boyle was furious to be leaving the organization that he had founded . " He was pissed , livid , very much betrayed , " Alex Boyle said . <p> Kennedy , who left Riverkeeper in 2017 , has continued to have a major impact on the environmental movement , helping to bring successful lawsuits against DuPont and Monsanto . In April , a number of his former colleagues at the N.R.D.C. , including Adams and Barratt-Brown , signed an open letter calling on him to drop out of the Presidential race : " In nothing more than a vanity candidacy , RFK Jr . has chosen to play the role of election spoiler to the benefit of Donald Trump -- the single worst environmental president our country has ever had . " Barratt-Brown emphasized the deep sense of personal betrayal that the letter 's signatories felt . " That 's his environmental family , " she said . ( Kennedy is the godfather to one of Barratt-Brown 's children . ) She added that Kennedy 's candidacy has weighed heavily on Adams , who is eighty-eight . " I think he feels the strain of having to speak out that way against somebody he was such a mentor to , " Barratt-Brown said . <p> In January , 2017 , two months before his departure from Riverkeeper , Kennedy had visited Trump , then the President-elect , at Trump Tower . In the building 's lobby , Kennedy told reporters that Trump had asked him to chair a commission on vaccine safety . The Trump campaign denied that such an offer was made . I asked Kennedy if Trump 's 2016 victory had changed the way he thought about his own political future ; Trump , like Kennedy , had skeletons in his closet . " I think that it enlarged the notions of what 's possible , " he said . <p> Mary Richardson had been a Kennedy family friend since she was a teen-ager . She and one of Kennedy 's sisters , Kerry , were roommates at the Putney School , in Vermont , in the seventies , and again at Brown . For a time , Richardson , who had long dark hair and thick eyebrows , lived in SoHo , where she was friends with Andy Warhol . But her attachment to the Kennedys was paramount . The longtime Kennedy friend recalled a car ride with Kerry and Mary when they were in college . " I said , ' O.K. , Mary , what 's your life ? Cut to the future , ' " the friend said . " And there was a long pause . And she said , ' Well , you know , if I could just have a room in Kerry 's house , that would be so great . ' And this is somebody who is so intelligent and beautiful . " <p> In 1993 , Richardson and Robert Kennedy , Jr. , reconnected at an art gallery , in New York . She had studied architecture at the Rhode Island School of Design and was working at Parish-Hadley , a design firm whose two founders had decorated the Kennedy White House . The pair began an affair that quickly became serious . Richardson , who was thirty-four , got pregnant . Kennedy secured a divorce from Black , in the Dominican Republic , and three weeks later he married Richardson on a boat in the Hudson River . Their first child , Conor , was born three months after the wedding . <p> Richardson moved into Kennedy 's Westchester home , where the couple threw dinner parties for a rotating roster of celebrities and city friends . Kennedy was serially unfaithful and often indiscreet . A close friend of the couple 's described him hitting on her : " It was disgusting . It was anyone and everyone . " Years later , she told Richardson to check her husband 's phone . " She was genuinely stunned to find out the stuff that he was texting and sexting with women that were friends of hers , " the friend said . Kennedy denied the affairs . " He said , ' You 're crazy , you 're a downer , you 're just negative ' -- it was always Mary 's fault . " <p> Richardson saw Kennedy 's infidelity as an aspect of his addictions . One of her confidantes told me , " We would walk the beach , and she would have rosary beads , and she would talk to me about how he was sick and he was a sex addict , and if he would just go back into recovery their marriage could be saved . " Another person with knowledge of their relationship said that Kennedy , whose speaking career had taken off , travelled frequently for work . " He also gaslighted her about her own psychiatric health , " this person said . " He told her more than once that she was crazy , that she was paranoid , that all the things she feared about what he was doing when he was out and about were fantasies . " In 2007 , Kennedy called the police on two separate occasions , saying that he was afraid that Richardson would hurt herself . He later claimed that she had physically abused him . <p> At some point , Richardson became aware of a diary , from 2001 , in which Kennedy had logged his sexual conquests . The New York Post later obtained and reviewed the contents of the diary , reporting that it included dozens of women , with numbers next to their names to indicate sexual acts ; ten meant intercourse . According to the Post , Kennedy seemed to have recorded the encounters as a way of policing himself . In one entry , he recalls being propositioned to have sex with two women : " It was tempting but I prayed and God gave me the strength to say no . " In another , he reminded himself to " avoid the company of women . You have not the strength to resist their charms . " He admonished himself to " be humble like a monk . Keep your hands to yourself . Avert your eyes . " <p> In the spring of 2001 , Kennedy was arrested in Puerto Rico while participating in a protest against U.S. military exercises on the island , which he said at the time were making local populations sick . He was convicted , along with several others , including Al Sharpton , for trespassing , and served thirty days in jail . Richardson gave birth to their fourth child while he was incarcerated , but Kennedy seemed perfectly content behind bars . " I have to say it . There 's no women . I 'm happy ! " he wrote in the diary . " It 's not misogyny . It 's the opposite ! I love them too much . " He called his " lust demons " his " greatest defect " and wrote that , after his father died , " every time I was afflicted with sexual thoughts , I felt a failure . I hated myself . I began to lie -- to make up a character who was the hero and leader that I wished I was . " <p> Kennedy told me that part of his addiction recovery was a commitment to a more personally vigilant existence . " I just said , ' I 'm going to act as if there 's a God out there watching me all the time and I have to behave myself , even when I do n't have an audience . ' " <p> In May , 2010 , Kennedy filed for divorce . Three days later , Richardson was arrested for driving under the influence . " This gets to the core of Mary -- she could n't not be Mrs. Robert F. Kennedy , " the longtime Kennedy friend said . " It just gave her a sense of being that she did n't have otherwise . " Those who knew the couple said that Richardson repeatedly begged Kennedy to take her back , even after he began dating Hines . People magazine later reported that , while the couple was separated , Kennedy called child-protective services on Richardson . " I know Bobby was concerned about the kids , " his friend Peter Michaelis , a TV producer , told the magazine . Richardson 's contact with the children was limited to supervised visits . Peter Kaplan , Kennedy 's Harvard roommate , who died in 2013 , was troubled by Kennedy 's treatment of Richardson . According to one former friend , " He thought Bobby was cruel to her during that divorce . " <p> " They prefer sudoku . " <p> Cartoon by Sofia Warren <p> Link copied <p> By Mother 's Day of 2012 , the kids were living with Kennedy , who was pursuing full custody . Three days later , Richardson was found dead in the garage of the Westchester house ; she had hanged herself . Almost immediately , Kennedy went into damage control . The day after Richardson 's death , he and his sister Kerry gave an interview to the Times in which they detailed Richardson 's struggles with depression and sobriety . " A lot of times , I do n't know how she made it through the day , " Kennedy said . In his eulogy at a memorial service , in Bedford , New York , that was not attended by Richardson 's family , Kennedy said , " I know I did everything I could for her . And she knew that . " <p> A month later , Newsweek published a story based largely on Kennedy 's divorce affidavit , which said that Richardson had been given a diagnosis of borderline personality disorder . Appended to the piece was an editor 's note with a statement from Richardson 's family : " The affidavit , which Mary repudiated at the time , is full of vindictive lies . This latest piling on is proof perfect of the unbelievable emotional and psychological abuse that Mary endured during the last years of her life , and now in death . The false claim that Mary suffered from BPD is also an insult to those who do struggle with this serious mental illness . " <p> The Richardsons had sued to have Mary buried in Westchester , but Kennedy won the right to bury her in the Kennedy family plot on Cape Cod . At the burial , Conor , a skinny seventeen-year-old with mussed hair , bent over his mother 's coffin , looking eerily similar to Kennedy at his father 's funeral forty-four years earlier . A month later , Kennedy had Richardson 's body exhumed and moved to a separate part of the cemetery , because , he said , it offered more space . Afterward , many of Kennedy 's friends began to distance themselves . Tim Hagan , a retired Democratic Party official , who has been close to the family for decades , told me , " I think it was a real unravelling in many ways . " <p> In August , 2003 , Sarah Bridges , a Minnesota mother , wrote a harrowing account in the Washington Post Magazine about the struggles of her second child , who , at four months , had spiked a fever after a vaccination and experienced a grand-mal seizure . Bridges 's son was later diagnosed with autism , and he has continued to experience seizures and other serious problems . " I was getting my Ph.D . in neuropsychology , a total science mom , all my kids were vaccinated , " Bridges told me . " I came to this as a total skeptic , but what happened to my son made it very stark . " <p> Bridges was researching the potential causes of her son 's condition when a college friend , the wife of Kennedy 's brother Max , mentioned that her brother-in-law was interested in looking at the deleterious effects of mercury . In public talks , Kennedy often spoke about the dangers of mercury contamination in fish , which is a by-product of coal plants . ( Kennedy has said that he likely got mercury poisoning from eating too many tuna-fish sandwiches . ) Thimerosal , a mercury-based preservative , had been used for decades in vaccines , though , in the early two-thousands , it was largely phased out . Kennedy 's sister-in-law told Bridges where she could find the Kennedy compound in Hyannis Port . Bridges , armed with a Bankers Box full of studies , showed up unannounced . <p> " I think I got about three sentences in and he said ' I 'm not interested , ' " Bridges recalled . She started telling Kennedy about the studies . " And he said , ' I need to go sailing , ' and he literally walked away . " Kennedy was gone for hours . When he returned , Bridges was still there , and he promised to look at the studies . " I think mainly to get rid of me , " Bridges said . The next day , when she went back to Hyannis Port , " he said , ' I 'm going to make some phone calls . There 's something going on here . ' " <p> Like Bridges , Kennedy had experienced a feeling of helplessness when it came to the health of his children . Conor had serious food allergies ; anaphylaxis had sent him to the emergency room twenty-nine times before age three . Another son , Finn , also developed severe allergies . In 1998 , Kennedy helped found the Food Allergy Initiative , and he and Richardson often attended the annual Food Allergy Ball , in Manhattan . In recent years , he has suggested that such allergies could be caused by vaccines . ( Conor , who is now thirty , formerly dated Taylor Swift and , in 2022 , briefly volunteered with Ukraine 's International Legion . ) <p> In 2005 , Kennedy approached his friend Jann Wenner , the co-founder of Rolling Stone , with an idea for a story about what he said were links between vaccines and autism . Kennedy was well liked at the magazine ; two years earlier , he had written an article on the environmental movement . " He 's an incredibly charismatic presence , " Will Dana , the former managing editor of the magazine , said . " One time , he gave this speech in the Rolling Stone conference room about environmentalism , and I swear to God he practically had everyone in tears . " Still , Dana went on , he could display a certain sense of entitlement . " He came in one day carrying a bucket with a little injured baby bird , " Dana said . " So then we have our meeting , and we do our thing , and suddenly he 's , like , ' I got ta go . Um , can you get one of your interns to take the bird to the vet ? ' " ( When asked to comment , Kennedy said , " This is a lie . " ) <p> Kennedy 's previous work for the magazine was sometimes problematic . " He would turn in these manuscripts , and it 's barely exaggerating to say , like , eighty to ninety per cent of the facts would be incorrect , even the simple ones , " Dana said . " It 's because he 's not a journalist . He 's a lawyer . He 's more about making arguments than about trying to communicate the truth . " The former friend remembered attending a dinner party with Kennedy and finding his case against vaccines persuasive and nimble , even though the former friend knew that the facts were wrong . " People think he 's an idiot -- he 's not an idiot , " the person said . But the vaccine story for Rolling Stone was riddled with errors . Eric Bates , an editor at the magazine , tried to slow-roll the piece , but Wenner pushed it through . ( Wenner said that , if he had known that the piece was " flawed that deeply , " he would n't have published it . ) <p> The article , titled " Deadly Immunity " -- which stated that " the link between thimerosal and the epidemic of childhood neurological disorders is real " -- required a number of major corrections . Kennedy falsely reported the amount of ethylmercury that infants receive in their vaccinations and misrepresented the transcript of a meeting of doctors in order to support his thesis that they were conspiring with the pharmaceutical industry to push unsafe vaccines . The magazine staff agonized over the fallout , but Kennedy seemed unfazed . " Bobby never had a moment of doubt , " a former staffer told me . " He was already convinced in the overarching argument , so the loss of any one piece or all of the pieces of data did n't put a dent in that . " <p> Kennedy told me that , in the aftermath , he stepped away from the vaccine issue . " I did the Rolling Stone article , and I felt like I 'd done my part , " he said . " Things kind of calmed down . " A year later , he published a piece for the magazine suggesting that George W. Bush stole the 2004 election . In Kennedy 's telling , he was dragged back into the vaccine debate in 2011 , when Salon -- which had co-published " Deadly Immunity " -- retracted and removed the story from its Web site . " By then , I was watching the science on this issue , on neurological harms from certain vaccines , " Kennedy told me . <p> In 2014 , he published " Thimerosal : Let the Science Speak , " an expansion on his refuted claims in Rolling Stone that vaccines contain dangerous amounts of ethylmercury . He told the Washington Post that friends and colleagues had urged him not to pursue the project . But , when we spoke in Atlanta , he seemed to suggest that his honor had been besmirched , forcing him to respond . " At that point , " he said , " it was like a declaration of war from pharma . " <p> One day , in the fall of 2014 , Kennedy was driving to a falconry outing in upstate New York when he passed a furry brown mound on the side of the road . He pulled over and discovered that it was the carcass of a black-bear cub . Kennedy was tickled by the find . He loaded the dead bear into the rear hatch of his car and later showed it off to his friends . In a picture from that day , Kennedy is putting his fingers inside the bear 's bloody mouth , a comical grimace across his face . ( When I asked Kennedy about the incident , he said , " Maybe that 's where I got my brain worm . " ) <p> Kennedy with the carcass of a black-bear cub , in 2014 . " Maybe that 's where I got my brain worm , " he said . <p> After the outing , Kennedy , who was then sixty and recently married to Hines , got an idea . He drove to Manhattan and , as darkness fell , entered Central Park with the bear and a bicycle . A person with knowledge of the event said that Kennedy thought it would be funny to make it look as if the animal had been killed by an errant cyclist . The next day , the bear was discovered by two women walking their dogs , setting off an investigation by the N.Y.P.D. " This is a highly unusual situation , " a spokeswoman for the Central Park Conservancy told the Times . " It 's awful . " In a follow-up piece for the Times , which was coincidentally written by Tatiana Schlossberg , one of J.F.K. 's granddaughters , a retired Bronx homicide commander commented , " People are crazy . " <p> That year , Kennedy moved with Hines to Los Angeles , where he soon became acquainted with Eric Gladen , a vaccine skeptic who , in 2007 , founded a group called World Mercury Project . According to an Associated Press investigation , the group -- which was later renamed Children 's Health Defense -- reported $13,114 in revenue on its 2014 tax filings . But , in 2015 , after Kennedy joined the group 's board , revenue shot up to $467,443 . At an event in Sacramento to promote a film by Gladen , " Trace Amounts , " Kennedy told a crowd that , when children receive vaccines , " that night they have a fever of a hundred and three , they go to sleep , and three months later their brain is gone . This is a holocaust , what this is doing to our country . " <p> In May , 2019 , as a measles outbreak rippled across the country , Kennedy 's older brother , Joseph , his older sister , Kathleen Kennedy Townsend , and Townsend 's daughter Maeve published an op-ed in Politico about Kennedy 's anti-vaccination efforts . " He has helped to spread dangerous misinformation over social media and is complicit in sowing distrust of the science behind vaccines , " they wrote . That summer , Kennedy and the actress Jessica Biel spearheaded a high-profile campaign against mandatory vaccination in California schools . By the end of the year , the journal Vaccine found that , during a two-month period , two groups accounted for more than half of the ads spreading misinformation on Facebook about vaccines . One was Children 's Health Defense , which , in 2021 , paid Kennedy an annual salary of five hundred thousand dollars . <p> With the arrival of COVID , Kennedy 's reach exploded . He churned out books : " The Real Anthony Fauci , " " Vax-UnVax : Let the Science Speak , " and " A Letter to Liberals : Censorship and Covid . " In the summer of 2021 , as COVID vaccines were rolling out , Children 's Health Defense promoted its film " Medical Racism : The New Apartheid , " which was seemingly aimed at Black Americans . During the early weeks of Kennedy 's Presidential campaign , the New York Post published a video in which Kennedy said that COVID was " targeted to attack Caucasians and Black people " and that " the people who are most immune are Ashkenazi Jews and Chinese . " Researchers in China , Russia , and the U.S. , he went on , are developing " ethnic bioweapons " to " target people by race . " ( Kennedy said that his remarks were taken out of context . ) <p> Kennedy has long been drawn to questionable science . But some of his former close friends have grown alarmed at the changes they 've seen in him more recently . Last summer , Kennedy posted a video of himself shirtless , doing pushups , a sunburn blooming across his well-defined back and torso . The implication was that his then rivals , Trump , at seventy-seven , and Biden , at eighty , were comparatively old and enfeebled . On a podcast last year , Kennedy said that he was taking testosterone-replacement therapy under the guidance of a doctor . One of the side effects of that treatment is increased muscle mass . But the longtime friend told me , " It 's almost like he 's been body-snatched . I look at pictures of him , and he 's unrecognizable . His sense of humor is all but gone . There 's this anger . " <p> The tragedy of Kennedy , the former friend said , is that there is a lot of good in him . Kennedy is said to have a natural affinity with children , taking them fishing or falconing , enthusiastically explaining nature and animals . " That guy was kind of magical , " the former friend said . " And that guy appears to be gone . " The longtime Kennedy friend said that he has tried talking to Kennedy about the environmental havoc that , he believes , Trump will unleash . In response , he said , Kennedy just " goes on a rant about the D.N.C. " Nearly everyone who knows him is perplexed by his belief that he can win the Presidency . " Sure , he was anti-corporate when we worked together , " Barratt-Brown said . " But he is now anti-government in such a dark way . " <p> In early May , the Kennedy campaign invited the media to a press conference with the candidate in Brooklyn , though what unfolded was more of a state-of-the-race briefing from the campaign 's perspective . Amaryllis Fox Kennedy , the campaign manager , led a slide-show presentation , striding across a stage in black riding boots and a blazer with leather-panelled sleeves . " The D.N.C. has been demanding that Robert F. Kennedy , Jr. , drop out of this race in the name of saving democracy , " she said . But really , Fox Kennedy continued , it was Biden who was playing the spoiler . " He can not win in either scenario , and by being in the race he prevents the only person who can beat Donald Trump from doing so in November . How do you like them apples ? " <p> Kennedy sat on a stool at the side of the stage , sipping from a venti Starbucks . Electoral maps appeared on the screen , one showing how Kennedy would beat Biden in a two-way race , another how he would beat Trump . Neither image included the fact that , for now , Kennedy has n't formally qualified to be on the ballot in most states . At the end of the event , as Kennedy was hustled into a black Mercedes , a reporter shouted a question : Had Trump 's team been in touch about debates this summer ? " Oh , I 'm available for debates , " Kennedy replied . " Anytime , anywhere . " <p> A month later , in a debate with Trump at CNN 's studios , in Atlanta , Biden 's responses were so incoherent and awkward that , afterward , Democrats joined Republicans in calling for him to step aside . Kennedy , who was n't invited to participate , held what his campaign called " the real debate , " a video stream of him , alone on a stage , answering the same questions that Biden and Trump were asked . Fox Kennedy recently told me that the campaign was n't surprised by Biden 's poor performance . When Kennedy had first approached her , in the fall of 2022 , about the possibility of his running for President , she recalled , " even then , he said , ' I think Biden has Parkinson 's . ' " <p> On July 13th , at a campaign rally in Pennsylvania , Trump narrowly survived an assassination attempt . That night , Kennedy appeared on Sean Hannity 's Fox News show and said that the " courage " Trump had shown during the shooting was " inspirational . " " All of us are complicit in some ways in what happened tonight , " he added . " How do we change the tone of the political dialogue in this country and start to forgive each other , to reconcile , to love each other again , and to see each other , and to be able to have differences with each other without wanting to murder each other ? " <p> Soon after , Trump and Kennedy spoke on the phone . In a video of the call , which Kennedy 's oldest son , Robert Kennedy III , posted online , Trump can be heard discussing his own vaccine skepticism -- " And then you see the baby all of a sudden starting to change radically , " Trump says -- before seeming to offer Kennedy the possibility of a spot in his Administration : " I would love you to do stuff , and I think it would be so good for you , and so big for you , and we 're going to win . We 're going to win . " Kennedy replies , " Yeah . " <p> The following week , Kennedy was at the Republican National Convention , in Milwaukee , where a Trump victory was treated as a near-inevitability . In a recent text exchange , Kennedy told one person that Trump was " a terrible human being . The worse president ever and barely human . He is probably a sociopath . " But , Kennedy went on , Biden was " more dangerous to the Republic and the planet . " At the Convention , Fox Kennedy said , Trump alluded to the possibility of Kennedy ending his run . " They said , ' You know , we know that you take more from us than you take from Biden , ' " she recalled . Trump and his team , she went on , had asked Kennedy , " ' Is there something that you would want to do ? ' " Kennedy is not opposed to serving in a Trump Administration . Secretary of Health and Human Services , Fox Kennedy said , " is an incredibly interesting one . " <p> That Sunday , Joe Biden announced that he was withdrawing from the campaign , and he endorsed his Vice-President , Kamala Harris , for President . Early polling suggests that Harris is gaining ground with certain traditionally Democratic voters who were disillusioned with Biden . Kennedy 's numbers are slipping . If the youth vote goes to Harris , Kimball , the pollster , said , " that 's going to hurt him . " ( Fox Kennedy told me that Kennedy would also be open to offers from a Harris Administration . ) <p> For now , Fox Kennedy said , the campaign is not focussing on specific states but , rather , on constituencies , mainly Democrats in reliably Republican states and Republicans in reliably Democratic states . One way in which she sees Kennedy becoming President is in a contingent election , a scenario in which no one candidate receives enough Electoral College votes to win outright , and the House of Representatives picks the President . ( It was also a plot device on the HBO comedy series " Veep . " ) Fox Kennedy told me , " We 've always said , as soon as people realize Bobby can win , he will win . " <p> In Atlanta , I asked Kennedy how the deaths of his loved ones had affected his political identity . He told me that , after his brother David died , he turned to his mother for solace . " I said to her , ' Does the hole that they leave in you when they die , does it ever get any smaller ? ' " Kennedy recalled . " And she said , ' It never gets any smaller , but our job is to grow ourselves bigger around the hole . ' " He added , " In doing that , we make ourselves larger , and the hole becomes proportionately smaller . " ? <p> An earlier version of this article misstated how an uncle of Kennedy 's died during the Second World War . <p> Published in the print edition of the August 12 , 2024 , issue , with the headline " The Inheritor. "
