<p> One number spotlights homelessness as a multilayered and deadly condition . The reported mortality among the roughly 10,500 homeless in San Diego County was 624 in 2023 , placing the death rate at about 594 deaths in every 10,000 homeless individuals each year . This is 7.5 times higher than the mortality rate in the general U.S. population , an incredibly sobering number ! To further underscore the scope of this unprecedented mortality rate among the homeless , it is 18 times higher than mortality from the tragic substance abuse crisis in the U.S. and about 3 times higher than that caused in Gaza by the devastating Israeli-Hamas conflict over the last year . Of course , these numbers do not explain specific cause , context or intent but are a stark and tragic result of the vulnerable , deadly underbelly of homelessness . <p> Drivers of health outcomes in general including mortality rates can be grouped into broad categories that include access to medical services , personal behavior and what are known loosely as social determinants of health . Social determinants include social support , education , employment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are strongly linked to as much as 50% of overall outcomes . At the point people become homeless , they have figuratively fallen off a steep cliff without resources and support in multiple categories . Laying severely injured at the bottom , these individuals , perhaps once our friends , schoolmates , neighbors or even family , require individualized , highly coordinated , intensive , supportive and holistic intervention . <p> Opinions and supporting evidence for solutions to homelessness in San Diego County come from a number of diverse and unique perspectives -- those that are homeless , local residents , businesses , law enforcement , front-line and academic organizations , health care and politicians . As an observer , it appears that recognizing , documenting and acting on drivers of homelessness has not fully considered the question : What causes what -- and why ? Current solutions that have already consumed billions of dollars over the last decade can solve only part of the problem at a nominal entry level based on the fact that the needle pointing at some key visible vital signs such as numbers of homeless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the red zone . Is this because there are insufficient resources available ? <p> What if homelessness is seen through a different lens ? The homeless are an economically , socially and medically impoverished population within the very prosperous San Diego region . Consider the principle of this lens from Clayton Christensen , a highly influential professor at the Harvard Business School who said in his book " The Prosperity Paradox : How Innovation Can Lift Nations Out of Poverty , " " Most of us are moved by the painful signs of poverty . " We all want to help . But what might seem to be the most obvious solution to these problems -- directly assisting poor countries by investing to fix visible signs of poverty -- has not been successful as many would like . What if , instead of trying to fix the visible signs , we focus on creating lasting prosperity ? This may require a counterintuitive approach , but one that will cause us to see opportunities where we might least expect them . <p> Examples of counterintuitive principles include what can we do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , solving a problem versus creating a market , and correlations versus causal mechanisms . Prosperity for the homeless means successful long-term healing of severely wounded lives within a self-sustaining model . Currently solving homelessness is thought of as only consuming resources using a deficit-based solution . How can resources be created ? Creating a viable and effective solution focused on prevention requires innovations that are simple , less costly , and that pull in non-government funded stakeholder financial and other resources for those with very difficult , complex problems including addiction , severe mental health issues , chronic diseases and loss of positive social determinants of health . This may appear unrealistic and overwhelming , but potential creative and innovative future solutions to be developed must be out there for those who are willing to look through a different lens .
