<h> Frances Black to speak on Occupied Territories Bill at Ennis event <p> SENATOR Frances Black ( Ind ) is set to speak at a public meeting in Ennis next week organised by the Clare branch of the Ireland-Palestine Solidarity Campaign . This event on Monday , October 14 at 7.30pm in Treacy 's West County Hotel will focus on the " urgent need " for the Irish Government to take action and pass the Occupied Territories Bill , which aims to prohibit trade with illegal Israeli settlements . Independent Senator Frances Black said , " In the six years since I first tabled the Occupied Territories Bill , the situation in Palestine has rapidly deteriorated . While the world is focused on the horrific , genocidal war in Gaza , across the West Bank we 're also seeing one of the biggest land grabs in decades -- more homes destroyed , families displaced , settlements built . How can we repeatedly condemn this as illegal but continue to trade in the goods produced ? It 's clear hypocrisy and it must stop . " The meeting will also feature ? amonn Meehan , Chair of Sadaka-the Ireland Palestine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Occupied Territories Bill , said , " The ICJ has ruled the occupation by Israel of Palestinian territory to be ' an unlawful act of a continuing character ' . In 2022 the UN reported that the settlements contributed $628 billion to the Israeli economy between 2000 and 2020 . By failing to ban trade with settlements we are complicit in criminal activity by Israel and in the impoverishment of Palestinians who are a protected population under the laws of occupation and whose resources are being stolen . " The Government 's interpretation of EU law makes it impossible for Member States to fulfil their international legal obligations . In fact , following the clarification by the ICJ of the laws governing occupation , it may be illegal not to pass the OTB . There is no legal obstacle to enacting this bill , only a lack of political will . " Finbarr Mc Gabhann from Clare IPSC said , " Clare IPSC have been campaigning for justice for Palestine for many years , holding public meetings , film screenings , protests etc . Since the current assault on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Saturday in O'Connell Square in Ennis from 11am . We were also instrumental in the passing by Clare County Council of a motion in December , calling for a ceasefire and supporting the Boycott , Divestment and Sanctions movement , assisted by councillors from Sinn F ? in , the Greens and Fianna F ? il . More recently , we got a motion passed instituting an Ethical Procurement Policy , which now ensures the council can not tender with any company which profits from or participates in , the Israeli occupation of Palestinian land.The people of Clare want real tangible action from our government " . The public meeting will take place on October 14 at 7.30pm.
