<h> Hamas says it has approved Israeli list of 34 hostages for possible deal <p> Hamas has approved a list of 34 hostages for possible exchange in a ceasefire deal , contingent on an agreement for Israeli withdrawal from Gaza and a permanent ceasefire . Weekend Israeli airstrikes killed 102 Palestinians , with mediators trying to secure a deal before President-elect Trump takes office . <p> Palestinian militant group Hamas has approved a list of 34 hostages presented by Israel to be exchanged in a possible ceasefire deal , a group official told Reuters on Sunday.The official , who spoke on condition of anonymity , also reiterated that any deal is contingent upon reaching an agreement on an Israeli withdrawal from Gaza and a permanent ceasefire . Israel PM Netanyahu 's office said Hamas had n't provided any list yet . Even as US and Arab mediators stepped up efforts for a deal , Israeli airstrikes killed at least 14 Palestinians in three separate attacks in Gaza on Sunday , taking the weekend death toll to 102 , Palestinian medics said . The Israeli military said it had attacked more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dozens of Hamas militants . It said it had also destroyed rocket launching sites used to wage attacks on Israel in recent days.Pressure has been mounting on both sides to reach a ceasefire deal that would include the release of hostages held in Gaza before President-elect Trump takes office Jan. 20 . <p> The Israeli delegation remained in Doha over the weekend , according to an Israeli person familiar with the matter , who spoke on condition of anonymity . The person said talks were making slow progress and were aimed at reaching a limited deal that would see a temporary halt in the fighting and some Israeli hostages releasedin exchange for a number of Palestinian prisoners . Roughly 100 hostages are still being held in Gaza out of some 250 people taken captive during the Hamas attacks in Oct 2023 that prompted the war . At least a third of them are presumed to be dead .
