<h> The week that was in international affairs : Israel-Hamas deal , Afghanistan 's darkness and more <p> Welcome back to another edition of My Take 5 , your weekly round-up of international news . Israel and Hamas finally reach a deal , Ukraine war heats up before Trump inauguration , Bangladesh could junk secularism altogether , Brics expands but questions hover , and Afghan women continue to suffer . Let 's get to it : Israel-Hamas deal : After much deliberation , and several twists and turns , Israel and Hamas finally agreed to a ceasefire-hostage exchange deal . <p> However , this is only the first phase of what is expected to be a lengthy process to wind down the 15-month-old Gaza conflict . In this phase , 33 of the remaining 98 Israeli hostages will be released in exchange for 1,700 Palestinian prisoners over a 42-day period . The first three Israeli hostages were released on Sunday . Meanwhile , Israeli forces are to withdraw to a perimeter around Gaza , draw down from crucial areas such as the Philadelphi Corridor , allow aid to flow into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so that the sick and injured can be moved out for medical assistance.However , the freeing of remaining hostages and a permanent ceasefire will have to wait for phase two , negotiations for which will begin roughly midway during phase one . And therein lies the apprehension that it will all fall apart . For , Israeli PM Netanyahu 's right-wing allies are already fuming at the cessation of hostilities that the current deal entails . They want Israeli forces to finish off Hamas for good , and even re-occupy Gaza . They are also threatening to leave the Netanyahu government should the fighting stop for good . Netanyahu , who is like a cat with 11 lives , is already manoeuvring to save his coalition . But if the right-wingers pull out , he will need the support of the opposition parties . However , that does n't suit him politically . Remember , as long as the war goes on , he can delay the trials into his corruption cases.Plus , many doubt that Netanyahu actually wants to dismantle Hamas . After all , he has refused to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should have been the Palestinian Authority ( PA ) . But Netanyahu does n't want them anywhere on the scene . In fact , he has been doing everything to undermine PA , from withholding funding to encouraging settler encroachment in the West Bank . Therefore , the void in Gaza will only be refilled by Hamas , which according to outgoing US secretary of state Antony Blinken has already recruited as many fighters as it has lost during the course of the war . <p> Meanwhile , the incoming Trump administration is projecting the deal as a win . No doubt , Trump had a role in making the deal happen . But it 's hardly as straightforward as he would like to present it . Things can still go wrong , Netanyahu and Hamas could back out at any point , negotiations for phase two could be scuttled , and Israeli forces could be back to fighting in those areas in Gaza that they had earlier cleared . My hunch is Trump will soon realise that it will take much more than bluster to solve the Gaza crisis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it , then there is the infinitely more complex Ukraine war crisis that remains pending . As Trump takes office , it sure as hell is n't going to be an easy ride.Ukraine -- Last burst before Trump : The war in Ukraine saw heightened military offensives by both sides last week , as Kyiv and Moscow prepare for Donald Trump 's inauguration as US president . Ukrainian forces launched one of its largest aerial attacks on Russia by firing six US-made ATACMS ballistic missiles , six UK-made Storm Shadow cruise missiles and more than 100 drones . Kyiv said it struck targets as deep as 1,100 km inside Russia , targeting oil storage , refineries and ammunition plants across multiple Russian regions . In turn Moscow retaliated over the weekend by firing ballistic missiles and drones of its own at Ukraine , including targeting Kyiv where three people died from falling missile debris . The Russians had also fired the missiles just after they had ended their drone assault , giving Ukrainians little time to take cover.On the diplomatic front , UK Prime Minister Keir Starmer visited Ukraine and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of areas including defence , energy and trade . It shows that UK is prepared to stand with Ukraine throughout the course of the war and beyond . This is very much needed given that Trump has repeatedly said that Europe should take the lead in countering Russian aggression on that continent . The US , on its part , also unveiled fresh sanctions on Russian oil , particularly targeting Gazprom Neft and Surgutneftegaz , and around 180 tankers ferrying Russian oil . Any transaction with these entities will attract US secondary sanctions.But the piece of news that was particularly relevant for India was the death of another Indian national fighting for Russian forces in Ukraine . The deceased was identified as Binil TB from Kerala 's Thrissur district . Binil and others like him had gone to Russia to be employed as plumbers , electricians and cooks in the Russian army 's support system . Yet he found himself on the frontline . This highlights two things . First , despite multiple appeals to Russian authorities over the past year , including by PM Modi , to release @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continues to ignore these cases , or not prioritise them . This says something about New Delhi-Moscow relations . Second , that Russia is forcing support staff in its army to fight on the frontline also shows the possible manpower shortage on its side . In fact , Russia has lost more troops in the war in 2024 than 2023 and 2022 combined . Such losses simply ca n't be sustained by Moscow.Bangladesh to junk secularism ? : A constitution reform commission in Bangladesh has suggested removing secularism as a state principle , along with socialism and nationalism . It will be recalled that secularism , socialism , Bengali nationalism and democracy were the foundational pillars of Bangladesh 's 1972 Constitution . However , after the assassination of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman in 1975 , these principles were gradually eroded away under subsequent martial law periods . Secularism was removed from the Bangladeshi Constitution in 1977 . It was reintroduced in 2010 by a Bangladesh Supreme Court order.But since Sheikh Hasina 's ouster in August last year , calls for removing secularism again have gained traction . This clearly cuts to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see secularism as an affront to religious sentiments or as a tool for appeasement . They want an Islamic Bengali nation as opposed to a multi-religious Bengali nation . And since they are calling the shots in Bangladesh today , they want to relegate secularism to the dustbin of history . This has serious implications for Bangladesh 's future and that country 's minority communities . There is a real danger that Bangladesh will go the Pakistan way , demoting minorities to second-class status . That in turn could lead to a real crisis with implications for India . Persecuted minorities could make a beeline for India , overwhelming Indian border states . Bangladesh , therefore , must protect its minorities for the sake of regional stability.Brics expansion , but : Nigeria has become a partner state of the Brics group . The latter has been pushing to include new members and partner countries in recent years . But there are serious political questions hanging over the grouping today . Brics says that it stands for a multipolar world where emerging economies have a fair say . However , given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ belligerence on multiple fronts , including against India , and the all-weather strategic compact between Moscow and Beijing , there is a serious risk that the grouping might become a Russia-China project . That certainly wo n't be to India 's advantage nor serve the cause of multipolarity . In fact , in all probability , Beijing and Moscow are aiming for a multi-ordered world where there is a bifurcation of tech , energy and data systems . So we will have a Western sphere and a Russo-Sino sphere . This , of course , is bad for the world and will raise tensions akin to the Cold War . India , therefore , must do everything it can to preserve the sanctity of Brics , get in friendly countries and prevent Moscow and Beijing from hijacking the platform.Afghanistan 's darkness : A senior member of Afghanistan 's Taliban has criticised the country 's ban on education for women and girls . Sher Abbas Stanikzai , Afghan political deputy at foreign ministry , said there was no excuse to prevent education for half the Afghan population . This is indeed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sixth grade . This is heinous human rights violation and takes Afghanistan back to the dark ages . If the Taliban want international recognition and investments , and project themselves as a modern version of their previous avatar , they must ensure basic rights for females , including education , access to healthcare and the freedom to work . That 's the only way Afghanistan can prosper and reach its true potential . And should the Taliban refuse to reform , pressure must continue to be brought to bear on the Afghan regime till change happens .
