<h> South Asia and the Israel-Hamas war <p> Harsha Kakar Islamist nations in the Middle East , less Iran , either maintained silence throughout the Israel-Hamas conflict , or commented only on the subject of civilian casualties . For them , ties with the US are more important . None displayed direct support for Hamas . Qatar , which funded Hamas for years , hosted its leadership on its soil , was behind the ceasefire deal , largely under pressure from the US . Iran , for whom Hamas and Hezbollah are frontline proxies continued to support them . Tehran praised the Palestinians on the ceasefire agreement and joined them in terming it a victory . Support for the Hamas as also the Palestinians came from non-entity South Asian states , Pakistan , Bangladesh and Maldives . The support was largely on religious grounds , a subject , Middle Eastern nations tended not to be impacted by . An editorial in The Dawn mentioned , ' This ( ceasefire ) shows that even the world 's best-equipped militaries , armed with advanced American weaponry , can not break the will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lives , but have refused to give up their land . ' Pak newspapers maintained a daily count of casualties in Gaza , accusing Israel of genocide . Pakistan had declared 07 Oct last year as ' Palestine Solidarity Day . ' Pakistan 's PM , Shehbaz Sharif had stated during his address to the UN General Assembly , ' This is not just a conflict , this is a systematic slaughter of innocent Palestinians . ' He also met the UN Secretary General and made similar statements . Pakistan has regularly compared Gaza with Kashmir and Indian forces to Israeli troops . For once , Pakistan , the only Islamic country with nuclear weapons , made no illogical comment on employing them in support of Palestine . Simultaneously , there are reports of Pakistan 's spy agencies employing Israeli spyware . It is known that Pakistan officials have had secret meetings with Israelis but continue to support Hamas . Pakistan 's foreign ministry responding to the ceasefire mentioned , ' Israel 's expansionist designs have destabilized the entire region . ' Shehbaz Sharief tweeted post the announcement of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people and pays homage to the sacrifices of tens of thousands of innocent people who lost their lives as victims of Israeli atrocities over the past several decades . ' Bangladesh too backed Hamas , despite the fact that both nations emerged post a genocide , Jews at the hands of Hitler and Bangladeshis at the hands of Pakistan . Bangladesh does not recognize Israel nor permits its citizens from visiting the country , despite Israel being amongst the first countries to recognize it as also accuse Pak of genocide . Addressing the UN General Assembly , Mohammad Yunus , the chief advisor to the government of Bangladesh , mentioned , ' The genocide in Gaza continues unabated despite global concerns and condemnation . The situation in Palestine just does not concern the Arabs or Muslims at large rather the entire humanity . ' Bangladesh backed South Africa 's claim on genocide at the International Criminal Court . It welcomed the ceasefire while accusing Israel of violating UN norms . Maldives President , Mohamad Muizzu , addressing the UN General Assembly last year in Sept mentioned , ' The ongoing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ travesty of justice and the international system . ' He added , ' Israel must be held accountable for these acts of terrorism , for these violations of international law and UN resolutions . ' In June last year , Maldives banned entry of Israeli passport holders as also Israelis with dual citizenship . It subsequently had a rethink as many Palestinians hold Israeli passports . The country does not have diplomatic ties with Israel . The Taliban leadership in Afghanistan was partially muted . Its initial statement in Oct 2023 mentioned that the conflict was ' the result of Israeli Zionists trampling on the rights of the oppressed Palestinian people and repeated insults and disrespect to Muslim holy places . ' However , it refused to term Hamas as freedom fighters . Their interior minister summed up Kabul 's views when he stated , ' We do not interfere in others ' internal affairs ... but we have faith-based sympathy with Muslims . ' On the contrary , India , Nepal and Sri Lanka criticized the Hamas attack terming it as a terrorist action and Hamas as terrorists , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diplomatic ties with Israel . At least ten Nepali students were killed in the Hamas assault in Oct 2023 . Nepal , like India launched aircraft to bring back their residents/students from Israel , once hostilities commenced . Israel employs Indian workers to make up the shortfall caused by stopping entry of Palestinians , post the 07 Oct attack by Hamas . Muslim majority nations in South Asia , who backed Hamas and criticized Israel did so largely on religious grounds . They organized formal solidarity marches , more as internal diversions from failing domestic economy , than conveying a global message of support . None of them have any global standing nor are capable of assisting Gaza in any way . Their aid to Gaza has been only in name , rather than substance . Their voices were ignored as mere ranting . In fact , Israel felt it useless to even comment on their criticism , while Hamas did convey gratitude for their support . Israel 's subsequent attacks on the Hezbollah and Syria faced a similar response from South Asia . Pakistan termed this as expansion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The ceasefire has largely been welcomed by all with many terming it as a victory for the Palestinians . None of South Asia 's Muslim majority nations would contribute to the reconstruction of Gaza , while India , despite its criticism of Hamas , still may . These nations only possess the ability to criticize , while offering nothing much in return.Islamist movements in these countries have been the most vocal though their governments are aware that their voices mean nothing . The is in contrast to Middle East nations which were muted in their criticism of Israel . None of them sponsored protest marches in support of Hamas . None backed Hamas nor were willing to accept Palestinian refugees . It is evident that Middle East nations seek peace , development and better ties with Israel as also the US . These are nations which would contribute to the reconstruction of Gaza and work towards a better future for the region . They would do so silently , without much fanfare . Pakistan , Bangladesh and Maldives are like empty drums making the most noise , while offering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Major General ( Retd )
