<p> UNITED NATIONS - The World Health Or ? ganization ( WHO ) Tuesday ex ? pressed concern for hundreds of thousands of Palestinians displaced by the deadly Is ? raeli attacks in the besieged Gaza where heavy rainfall has caused flooding and aggravat ? ed the already dire health cri ? sis . " Rain will just add further to the suffering " of people in the Strip , WHO Spokesperson Margaret Harris told report ? ers in Geneva , at a time when disruptions in sewage pump ? ing and water shortages have caused a spike in waterborne diseases and bacterial infec ? tions . The World Health Or ? ganization warned last week that since mid-October , over 33,500 cases of diarrhoea had been reported , mostly among children under five , some 16 times the monthly average . Facilities run by the UN agen ? cy for Palestine refugees , UN ? RWA , where over 580,000 dis ? placed people in southern Gaza had sought shelter due to Israel 's offensive in retaliation for Hamas ' October 7 attacks , are more than nine times over capacity and the overcrowding is posing further health @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fire to happen now , " Dr. Harris insisted . Meanwhile in Gene ? va , the families of some of the 238 hostages held by Hamas in Gaza since October 7 were due to continue their advoca ? cy for the release of their loved ones on Tuesday . A meeting was announced between hos ? tages ' families and Mirjana Spoljaric , President of the In ? ternational Committee of the Red Cross ( ICRC ) , a UN hu ? manitarian partner organiza ? tion . In a statement , the ICRC said that Ms. Spoljaric would also meet with the Israeli au ? thorities and that the organi ? sation had been " persistent ? ly advocating on behalf of the hostages held in Gaza , includ ? ing directly with Hamas and with actors who may have in ? fluence on the parties " . WHO 's Dr. Harris described in detail the dire situation at Al-Shifa Hospital , which is a focus of operations by the Israeli De ? fence Forces which claim that Hamas had established a com ? mand centre under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Speaking of the " heroic " health workers , Dr. Harris said that they were " doing whatever they can to keep going " while the facility had been without power since November 11 and there was not enough food and clean wa ? ter . Some 700 patients were still present at the site and more than 400 health staff , in addition to around 3,000 displaced persons who had sought refuge there .
