<h> Unjustified Revenge of the Holocaust <p> Massacre of Jews through various tactics of torture in the concentration camps , erected by Hitler before and during the World War 11 was a big tragedy , popularly known as the **28;345;TOOLONG American leading think-tanks and media have propagated that " genocide of 5 million Jews was carried out at the extermination camps , using tools of mass murder , such as gas chambers " , while some Jewish-influenced Western scholars have estimated the genocide of the 7.8 million Jews.Some impartial researchers claim : " The number of Jewish losses has been greatly exaggerated ... All Jews were not killed through gas chambers , but also due to hunger , diseases and depression " . On the one hand , the Jews have made the Holocaust the greatest device of gaining sympathy , while , on the other , they have used it for anti-Muslim policies and to fulfill the Zionist ambition of greater Israel.Learning no lesson from the Holocaust , Israeli forces which started unprecedented attack on the Gaza strip on October 8 , this year in response to the Hamas assault , launched on Israel on October 7 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the Palestinians.As regards Israel , during the World War I , the Zionists pressured the British government to settle them in Palestine after the war . The Balfour Declaration of November 2 , 1917 was a conspiracy of the USA and the British rulers against the Palestinians , which was implemented on May 14 , 1948 through the UNO -- the 1947 -- UN Partition Plan established the state of Israel -- 750,000 Palestinians were displaced . Present scenario of Palestinians fleeing Gaza due to Israeli heavy shelling reminds the Jews fleeing Germany during Hitler 's era.Repeating the bloody war of 2014 in its worst form , on May10 , 2021 , Israeli air strikes and ground shelling had martyred more than 1000 Palestinians , including children and women in Gaza in particular and the West Bank in general.However , after many attacks on Gaza in the past and recent years and this year 's assaults on the Palestinians , Hamas was compelled to target Israel on October 7 , 2023 , and took approximately 250 Israeli civil and armed soldiers as hostages.But , in response to the assault @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ IDF ) launched an unprecedented multi-pronged attack on Gaza strip -- one of its largest aerial bombardments to eliminate Hamas . So far , the IDF has dropped more than 25,000 bombs on Gaza.Unmatched with Israeli heavy and modern weapons , freedom fighters of Hamas and the Palestinian Islamic Jihad group had no option except firing rockets inside Israel.Israel 's aerial raids in Gaza enclave have destroyed buildings , houses , refugees ' camps , mosques , schools and hospitals , killing tens thousands of civilians , including women ( including pregnant women ) , children and journalists . Reports suggest that particularly more than 10000 children have been massacred by IDF bombardments.Besides killing 1000 people in air raids on various hospitals , IDF intensified aerial and ground assaults on the Gazas particularly targeting Al-Shafa Hospital . These forces entered there and tortured the paramedical staff , martyring many Palestinians as well as the injured persons . The merciless treatment resulted into the deaths of newborn children owing to lack of oxygen ( Incubators ) , fuels and generators -- almost all the hospitals have been closed.Several world leaders belonging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the UN secretary general strongly censured the attacks on hospitals , civilians and especially children , holding Israel responsible for the tragedy in wake of the protest-rallies in the USA , Western countries and the Islamic countries.But , after much internal and external pressure , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu accepted the Qatar-mediated deal , as Egypt and the US President Joe Biden also played a key role in this respect.In this context , on November 22 , 2023 , Israel and Hamas agreed to a temporary pause in the war-a four-day truce which will enable the release of about 50 women and Children held hostage in Gaza in exchange for 150 Palestinian women and children held in Israeli jails . Tel Aviv would also stop all military actions in Gaza and hundreds of trucks carrying humanitarian , medical and fuel aid would be allowed into the territory.The deal which has to be implemented on November 23. 2023 at 9. 15 AM has been delayed , with Israeli officials saying it will not take effect until Friday ( Next day ) . PM Netanyahu clarified that the truce is temporary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we achieve all our goals ... To destroy Hamas " . In fact , the major ally of Israel-the US is not in favour of permanent ceasefire agreement , though along with his key Western partners , she is insisting upon two-state solution of the Israeli-Palestinian issue , which has been rejected by Tel Aviv.Undoubtedly , I can conclude in the statement of Iran 's former president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad who had said on December 14 , 2005 that the Holocaust was a " myth ... if Europeans insisted the Holocaust did happen , then it was they who were responsible and they should pay the price . If you committed this big crime , then why should the oppressed Palestinian nation pay the price ? .. then give a part of your own land in Europe , the United States , Canada or Alaska to them Jews , so that the Jews can establish their country " .
