<p> 1 . I am an advocate of the High Court of South Africa and a member of the Cape Bar . I hold chambers on the 6th floor of Keerom Street Chambers , 56 Keerom Street , Cape Town . I am an adjunct senior lecturer in the faculty of law at the University of the Western Cape . <p> 2 . I am a member of UCT 's Council , and the twenty - sixth respondent in this application . I am cited in this application in my capacity as a member of the Council . I was appointed by the City of Cape Town 's Council to serve on the UCT Council in February 2024 . I have been a member of the Council since 9 February 2024 . <p> 3 . I abide the decision of this Court . <p> 4 . I am constrained to depose to this affidavit in order to fulfil my obligations of candour to the Court . As a member of the Council , I exercise public power . The Constitutional Court has held that this means that I have heightened obligations in litigation . Certain of the facts deposed to on behalf of UCT 's Council are incorrect and my duty is to provide the Court with the correct facts . <p> --&gt; <p> 5 . The Council is a deliberative body that consists of 30 members . These members have different perspectives . The Council has split narrowly on whether the impugned resolutions should continue to exist as a policy of UCT . There is also dissensus within the Council about the resolutions . The Supreme Court of Appeal has recognised that the appropriate course of action for a deliberative body in these instances , is for it to abide the decision of the Court . When this occurs , it is appropriate that the different perspectives be placed before the Court . <p> 6 . I was present at the meeting of the Council on 22 June 2024 , where the impugned resolutions were taken . <p> 7 . The facts set out in this affidavit fall within my personal knowledge , unless the context indicates otherwise . I believe these facts to be true and correct . Where information does not fall within my personal knowledge , but arises from documents that I have considered , I refer to those documents in this affidavit . <p> 8 . Below , I address the following topics : <p> 8.1 . In PART I , I explain the purpose of deposing to this affidavit . <p> 8.2 . In PART 11 , I deal with the meeting of the Council on 22 June 2024 where the impugned resolutions were taken . <p> 8.3 . In PART Ill , I deal with the Council 's meeting on 27 July 2024 , where a motion was tabled to delay the implementation of the impugned resolutions pending a due diligence investigation into the consequences arising from the impugned resolutions . <p> 8.4 . In Part IV , I deal with the Council meetings on 5 and 19 October 2024 where the Council considered this application and took certain decisions relating to the application . <p> 8.5 . In PART V , I deal with the meeting of March 2025 , where a motion was tabled to rescind the impugned resolutions . <p> 8.6 . In PART VI , I deal with the attempts by members of the Council to obtain information and clarity concerning certain facts that were not disclosed at the meeting of 22 June 2024 , and the consistency of certain statements made on affidavit , with statements made in the Council . <p> I. THE PURPOSE OF THIS AFFIDAVIT <p> 9 . On 9 May 2025 , the Chairperson of UCT 's Council filed an affidavit on behalf of the Council in support of Council 's opposition to this application . I received the affidavit on that date through my attorney , and the affidavit was made available to all members of Council on 11 May 2025 . <p> 10 . This is the first time that members of Council had sight of the affidavit filed by the Chair on behalf of the Council . As a member of Council , I was not invited to comment on the affidavit or confirm its contents before it was filed . <p> 11 . A draft of the affidavit was not made available to members of Council for their comment before it was filed . <p> 12 . The Chair 's answering affidavit was made available on a platform called ' Convene ' . This is the application used by members of Council to view documents in a secure manner . Convene does not allow members of Council to download or print documents uploaded to it . When I joined the Council , I was informed that the purpose of the Convene application is to prevent leaks of confidential information by members of Council to those outside of the Council . <p> 13 . Accordingly , I am not able to annex some of the documents that I reference in this application . Certain documents referred to , have also been marked confidential , but I believe that it is necessary to deal with these documents in order to fulfil my obligations to this Court . UCT 's Code of Conduct permits the disclosure of information confidential to the Council where it is legally mandated . <p> 14 . The answering affidavit of the Chair of Council contains information that I was not previously aware of . <p> 15 . It also contains documents that I had not seen before receiving the answering <p> 16 . And it contains certain statements that are not consistent with the facts . <p> 17 . The following are examples of information that I was unaware of and documents that I have seen for the first time because of the litigation : <p> 17.1 . The first time that I became aware of the reason for the non - disclosure of the Donald Gordon Foundation ( DGF ) Donor Agreement and the Dell Foundation agreement , was from the answering affidavit of the Chair and the confirmatory affidavits filed by Exco members , who were present at the meeting of 22 June 2024 . To the best of my knowledge , these members have not disclosed to the Council that the reason for their non <p> - disclosure was because they regarded the information as premature and unripe for Council 's consideration . <p> 17.2 . There were two main reasons suggested for non - disclosure in the Council . The first is that disclosure would not have made a difference to the outcome of the Council 's decision on 22 June 2024 , and the second is that the information was so widespread that it did not require disclosure . <p> 17.3 . I had sight of the letter of the DGF dated 30 April 2024 placing UCT in breach of the donor agreement for the first time when I saw it annexed to the answering affidavit . The letter was not disclosed to members of the Gouncil . <p> 17.4 . The same is true for the DGF 's decision to cancel the donor agreement . <p> Although I suspected that the donor agreement may have been cancelled after reading the supplementary founding affidavit , this fact was never in terms disclosed to the Council . It is certainly the case that the cancellation letter was never placed before the Council . I saw the cancellation letter for the first time when the DGF wrote to UCT Council members on 22 May 2025 , which letter included as an annexure , the cancellation letter dated 6 August 2024 . <p> 18 . I also regard the following statements in the answering affidavit as not being candid with this Court : <p> 18.1 . Paragraph 294 of the answering affidavit is inconsistent with what actually occurred at the Council meeting on 15 March 2025 . The Chair states that " the VC 's verbal report to Council members at the meeting on 15 March 2025 and his exchanges with Council members aligned with his written report " . That is not correct : although the VC 's report suggested a partial recission of the impugned resolutions ; the VC did in fact ask the Council at this meeting to rescind the resolutions altogether . It is incorrect to state that his remarks in the Council " aligned " with his report . <p> 18.2 . I also do not regard paragraph 310.4 of the answering affidavit as correct . In explaining why certain documents did not serve before Council when it took the decision on 22 June 2024 , the Chair states that any member of Council could have sought documents from the Registrar regarding previous Council meetings . This is not accurate . I set out below my email correspondence with the Registrar and the Chair of Council which demonstrates this to be incorrect . <p> 18.3 . Paragraph 577 is also not entirely candid . The Chair states that the terms of reference of the ad hoe committee established to investigate the reasons for non - disclosure " were drafted by Professor Moultrie " . It is correct that Prof Moultrie provided an initial draft of the terms of reference , but this was later supplemented by members of Council . I repeatedly asked the Chair if implicated members of Council added to the terms of reference , because they would be conflicted from doing so . The Chair refused to answer me . I set out this correspondence below . <p> 18.4 . The supplemented terms of reference were of considerable concern to me because they included items that were retaliatory towards Prof Moultrie . The retaliation was based on him merely raising a legitimate governance concern : the non - disclosure issue at the Council meeting of 22 June 2024 . One of the supplemented items on the terms of reference was for an " appropriate sanction " to be brought against Prof Moultrie if it is found that his allegations were without merit . <p> 18.5 . Paragraph 545 of the answering affidavit is not accurate . The Chair states that the record was filed on 13 September 2024 . The same allegation is made in UCT 's answering affidavit in the chamber book application brought by the applicant , which sought to compel the filing of an answering affidavit by the Council , when it had failed to do so timeously . <p> 18.6 . It is correct to state that the Council resolved to ratify the Chair 's decision to file the rule 53 record on 13 September 2024 . That ratification decision was taken on 19 October 2024 . And after the ratification decision was taken , members of Council were invited to supplement the record . <p> 18.7 . The transcript of the impugned meeting of 22 June 2024 was , as a fact , only filed on 12 December 2024 . It was not filed on 13 September 2024 . At best , there was a partial record filed on 13 September 2024 . The Chair recognises at paragraph 673.11 that a redacted transcript for the meeting on 22 June 2024 was only delivered on 12 December 2024 . It is difficult to understand why the Chair denies a delay in filing the record at para 545 of the answering affidavit , when he accepts at para 673.11 that the redacted transcript was only filed on 12 December 2024 . <p> 18.8 . There were good reasons for the delay in filing a complete rule 53 record within the 15-day period prescribed by Uniform Rule 53(1) ( b ) . As an organ of state with heightened constitutional obligations , it is not appropriate for UCT to plead facts which are not entirely accurate . UCT should accept that an incomplete record was filed on 13 September 2024 and explain that there were good reasons for this . <p> 19 . After considering the answering affidavit , and on 20 May 2025 , I requested the Interim Registrar of UCT to provide me with the recordings of certain Council meetings . I annex this request as KP1 . I did so because I wanted to establish whether my recollection of certain Council meetings was correct ; and also , to establish whether other statements made in the answering affidavit concerning Exco meetings , were correct . <p> 20 . On 23 May 2025 , I received a letter from UCT 's attorneys in this matter informing me that - <p> " You are required to comply with the Uniform Rules of Court to obtain documents and recordings for the purpose of the litigation , specifically rule 35 . This must be done via the attorneys of record for you . <p> Should you wish to enter the fray by requesting documents or recordings and filing affidavits in the proceedings , you should withdraw your notice to abide , and if you support the relief Prof Mendelsohn is seeking , should join as co - applicants . <p> Please note that all queries relating to the litigation must be addressed to our offices and not to the Registrar Interim directly " . <p> 21 . This letter is annexed as KP2 . <p> 22 . I was surprised by the letter because I sought the documents from the Registrar , as a member of Council , in order to establish whether certain facts pleaded by the Chair accorded with my recollection of events in Council meetings ; and also , whether certain averments pleaded were correct . <p> 23 . The letter suggested that my filing of any affidavit would be improper , and that I was required to join as a co - applicant . I am aware that a respondent can not support the relief sought by an applicant without joining as a co - applicant . 1 I abide the decision of this Court . I am constrained , as part of an organ of state to place facts before this Court that are relevant and material to the Court exercising its constitutionally entrenched review function . <p> 24 . As a member of the Council , I have heightened constitutional obligations in litigation . The Constitutional Court has held that this means that I may not " mislead or obfuscate . I must do right , and I must do it properly . I am required to be candid and place a full and fair account of the facts before a court " .2 Placing the full and correct facts before a Court exercising its review function does not mean that a respondent supports the relief of the applicant . It means that they have sought to fulfil the obligation to assist the Court with the facts necessary for the Court 's consideration of the matter . <p> 25 . The Chair of Council has repeatedly suggested that it would be improper for me to file this affidavit . He has done so in a threatening manner . At the meeting of 19 October 2024 , the Chair indicated that Council takes collective decisions , and that anyone who files an affidavit will have their tenure on Council called into question . At a recent special meeting on 12 June 2025 , the Chair similarly suggested that it would be improper for me to file an affidavit because of the Council decision to oppose the application . <p> 26 . Other Council members have indicated to me that they would like to share their perspectives with the Court on matters addressed in the answering affidavit , but that they are fearful of doing so . They are concerned about their tenure being called into question , retaliatory conduct by other members of Council , and being labelled as " pro Zionist ! anti- Gaza " or ' Zionists with a political agenda ' on Council . These are phrases used by some members of Council regarding other members of Council who have called a special meeting to deal with their concerns about the governance of UCT . <p> 27 . In my view , it is the culture of secrecy together with the culture of fear , that has resulted in the leaks of confidential documentation to the applicant that the Chair has complained about in his affidavit . The leaks are deeply regrettable . I confirm under oath that I have not leaked any confidential material to the applicant or his legal representatives . My experience on the Council is that the emphasis on confidentiality is rooted in an intention to conceal information to avoid accountability , 3 rather than to act openly and transparently , as is required of every organ of state . I set out examples of this below . <p> 28 . As a deliberative body , it is to be expected that there will be different views and perspectives . <p> 29 . There should be no impediment to members of Council placing their perspectives before the Court . <p> 30 . This is particularly the case where the outcome of the impugned decision is decided by a narrow majority and there is serious internal dissensus on the issue . <p> 31 . At the meeting of 15 March 2025 , the Council considered a motion to rescind the impugned resolutions and withdraw its opposition in this matter . <p> 32 . The Chair addresses this in the answering affidavit at paras 11.2.2 , 12 and 298 . <p> He does not disclose the outcome of the vote . <p> 33. 13 members supported rescinding the impugned resolutions and withdrawing the opposition to this application.14 members voted against the motion . There was 1 abstention . The vote could not be narrower . <p> 34 . The SCA has recognised that where deliberative bodies are narrowly split on a decision , and that decision is later challenged , the appropriate course of action is to abide the decision of the Court rather than oppose it.4 The same is true where there is serious internal dissensus amongst members of the body . The different perspectives should be placed before a Court so that it may exercise its constitutionally entrenched review function . <p> 36 . Accordingly , the suggestion that filing this affidavit is inappropriate is inconsistent with basic constitutional norms that regulate the duties of organs of state that exercise public power . <p> 37 . I , like all members of Council , have a duty of candour to the Court , which means that if I consider certain information to be incorrect , or that the information before the Court is incomplete , I have duty to place the correct and full facts before the Court . <p> 38 . Organs of state bear this duty regardless of whether those facts are to their benefit or detrimental to the case . <p> 39 . Being candid does not mean that a respondent supports the relief of the applicant - it means that they take seriously their duty to the Courts . <p> 40 . Before turning to the meeting of 22 June 2024 , there are two considerations that I emphasise . <p> 41 . The first is that I recognise that all facts after 22 June 2024 are irrelevant to the review . The Court is required to consider whether the Council acted constitutionally and lawfully on 22 June 2024 . <p> 42 . But the founding ( including the supplement thereto ) and the answering affidavits have dealt with facts which occurred after the impugned decision was taken . There is an important reason for this . <p> 43 . The facts that followed the meeting of 22 June 2024 cast a shadow back to this meeting . They concern , inter alia , attempts by members of Council to understand why certain facts were not disclosed to it when the impugned resolutions were voted on . They also raise important matters for the governance of UCT , and the rationality of proceeding with a decision where the information before the Council is incomplete . <p> 44 . The second consideration is the deeply contested nature of this application , and the broad public interest that it has attracted . The impugned resolutions have evoked support and condemnation from various sections of UCT and society generally . <p> 45 . Much has been said in the media about the resolutions , and various interest groups have also sought to write to the Council expressing their views about the resolutions . <p> 46 . The answering affidavit is correct when it states the context of the war in Gaza and Israel 's conduct can not be ignored . Council members who supported the resolutions at the June meeting may well have done so out of a sense of moral conviction . I too have expressed my personal view in the Council , on multiple occasions , concerning Israel 's conduct in Gaza , and the grave humanitarian crisis arising from it . Another member of Council who voted against the resolutions has publicly made similar statements . <p> 47 . It is possible to hold views critical of Israel 's conduct , and at the same time , consider that the deliberations of the Council on 22 June 2024 raise serious governance concerns for UCT . These two ideas are not mutually exclusive . <p> 48 . I believe that an important perspective is lost if the debate is regarded as binary . <p> 49 . As part of my duty of candour I now explain what I believe to be a constitutional standard that is to be applied whenever a University takes a moral position on an international conflict , and desires to show solidarity with those affected by the conflict . <p> 50 . Statements about international affairs and conflicts , are bound to give rise to disagreement amongst members of the University and indeed the public . <p> 51 . It is important and constitutional that all views are heard and considered . All information relevant to the decision must be brought to the attention of the body making the decision . <p> 52 . I say this because when disputes of this nature arise , the moral position taken by the Council is undermined by criticism that it did not act lawfully or rationally . The focus then is not on the actual moral position taken by the Council , but by allegations that it acted irrationally , improperly . and unlawfully . This is unfortunate : it harms the University 's reputation , and it creates a distraction from the good and bona fide intentions behind the policy position . <p> 53 . The moral position is strengthened when it is clear that every interested and affected person was heard , all information was disclosed , and the decision - makers took the decision having considered all of the implications arising from their decision . <p> 54 . And despite the inevitable disagreement in the University community , and indeed the Council , no one can complain that their views were not considered ; that the impact of the decision on them was ignored , and that information was not disclosed . A proper decision that stands in the name of the whole University was legitimately and rationally taken , despite reasonable disagreement . <p> 55 . When this occurs , the University may be proud of the position it has taken . <p> II . THE MEETING OF 22 JUNE 2024 <p> 56 . The meeting of 22 June 2024 was the last Council meeting before a new Council would be constituted . <p> 57 . The new Council would assume its office from 1 July 2024 . The agenda for the meeting of 22 June 2024 was packed . The total reading for the ordinary , confidential , and consent agendas were 1224 pages in total . <p> 58 . Much of the material was dense and required careful consideration . One of the items addressed earlier in the day was the then Interim VC 's report to Council . On page 4 of that report the Interim VC addressed the success of the University 's fundraising efforts . Included therein was the following : <p> " UCT was privileged to receive a significant longer-term ( over 10 years ) of R 200 million from the Donald Gordon Second Foundation in support of the research work done at the Neurosciences Institute , with the first tranche of R 20 million received in 2023 " . <p> 59 . During the Council meeting there was no disclosure either during the presentation of the report or later during the discussion on the impugned resolutions , that a letter placing UCT in breach of this donor agreement had been sent nearly two months earlier , on 30 April 2024 . <p> 60 . I only saw this letter for the first time when I read the answering affidavit filed on 9 May 2025 . <p> 61 . The impugned resolutions were placed on the ordinary agenda . It was marked as item 5 on the ordinary agenda and titled " REPORT FROM SENATE " . One of the subheadings of that item was " Resolutions in respect of the Israeli/Gaza conflict : for discussion I approval " . <p> 62 . This item was the last for discussion at the meeting . The full agenda for the meeting could not be dealt with in a single sitting , and an adjourned meeting took place virtually on 27 June 2024 to address the outstanding items . <p> 63 . The debate on the impugned resolutions took place late in the day , and many members of Council had left the meeting before the item could be considered . When Council voted on the motions , it was quorate by two members , there being 17 members in total present . <p> 64 . The only material that the Council had before it when it considered this item were two documents : <p> 64.1 . The first document is titled " Resolution on the Destruction of Scholarship and Education in Gaza " . It is 5 pages long and contains a motion before the Senate proposed by Leslie London and seconded by Fatima Seedat . The item was marked ' attachment a5ai ' on the agenda . The answering affidavit refers to this motion as ' the Antisemitism resolution ' . I use the same language . <p> 64.2 . The second document was untitled . The opening paragraph reads " proposed resolution on disallowing UCT collaborations with any research entity or network with members belonging to the Israeli Defence Force and/or other organs of the Israeli military establishment " . The document is two pages long and contains a motion proposed by Prof Lydia Cairncross and seconded by A/Prof Ruchi Chaturvedi . The item was marked as ' attachmentA5aii ' on the agenda . The answering affidavit refers to this resolution as the ' IDF Resolution ' . I use the same language . <p> 65 . No other material concerning the two resolutions served before the Council . <p> 66 . Before the debate on the two resolutions , I did not know how I was going to vote . I had concerns about the implications for academic freedom and free speech arising from the IDF Resolution , but as is the case with my participation in all Council meetings , I kept an open mind and was open to persuasion . <p> 67 . It was the debate that persuaded me to vote against both resolutions . The debate suggested to me that Council was seeking to rush a decision , without the information necessary for a rational decision . And it became clear that some Council members sought to forge ahead , despite legitimate concerns about inadequate information before the Council . <p> THE ANTISEMITISM RESOLUTION <p> 68 . The transcript of the proceedings on 22 June 2024 accurately records the debate in the Council . At the start of the debate , the Council had a discussion about the status of the two resolutions , and what the Council was required to do with them . <p> 69 . The Registrar advised the Council that the resolutions were the Senate 's and that if adopted , they would have the effect of becoming policy of the University . <p> 70 . The Registrar indicated that the Council should consider the individual clauses of the resolutions to determine whether they impose obligations on the University from a policy point of view . <p> 71 . The Council had three options : it could reject the Senate 's resolution , endorse it , or merely note it . The Registrar explained the consequences of each decision as follows : <p> " Ja , if one looks at the terms of the Senate resolution , which speaks to resolving to do a number of things , urging , expressing , but then very specifically in clause 16 , reject the IHRA conflation of the critique , that is where it actually asks , I think for something a little bit at a higher bar . So , if Council were to note this , it is not a Council statement , but it stays as a Senate statement . If Council were to reject it , it then actually is a rejection by Council , but it would stay a Senate resolution . <p> If Council would want to maybe consider how this could be changed , that requires an engagement with Senate . And if there is anything in here that Council think affects the university in policy terms , then Council would have to be clear in adopting this that it is also accepting what the policy implications might be " . <p> 72 . The discussion that then followed concerned the delay in bringing the resolutions to the Council for its consideration and decision . An explanation was provided as to why the resolutions only served before the Council in June 2024 and could not serve before it at the March meeting . <p> 73 . The Chair of Council then sought to analyse the individual clauses of the Antisemitism resolution as suggested by the Registrar and noted that several clauses aligned with the earlier statement of the Council in December 2023 . <p> 74 . The Chair accepted two interventions . These were made by Speakers 11 and <p> 12 . Speaker 11 noted that there was symmetry between the Antisemitism resolution and the earlier resolution of Council , but that new developments in Gaza required a response from University Councils and Senates . Speaker 11 indicated that the Council should support and adopt the Senate 's resolution . <p> 75 . Speaker 12 sought to unpack the policy implications mentioned by the Registrar . The Speaker noted that there were some points in the Antisemitism resolution that had been raised previously before the Council . Importantly , however , items 15 and 16 were not . Item 16 concerns the rejection of the IHRA definition of anlisemitism . <p> 76 . Speaker 12 specifically asked " what does it mean for us if we accept Senate 's rejection of this IHRA definition and opt for the Jerusalem Declaration instead ? <p> What does this mean for us ? What potential implications does it have for the University ? " There was no response to this question . It was not disclosed , in response to the question , that one of the potential implications was that a donor agreement could be cancelled unless the University was able to remedy a breach of the agreement , and that the University was placed on notice of such breach two months earlier . It was also not disclosed that one of the " potential consequences " was a " possible donation " ( the language of para 241 of the answering affidavit ) towards an academic hospital . <p> 77 . Speaker 13 then sought to unpack certain clauses in the resolution . In relation to the clause 16 , Speaker 13 explained the reason for its inclusion as follows : <p> ' The rejection of the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance Resolution is simply because it is being weaponised , it is being weaponised to violate academic freedom . That is why it is a resolution . And there is a more dynamic resolution which has been constructed by scholars , by academics who work in the area of genocide , who work in the area of antisemitism , including Professor Mendelsohn from UCT , who is a signatory to the Jerusalem Declaration on antisemitism , which has a much more constructive approach to antisemitism and not a weaponisation of antisemitism like the IHRA definition . " <p> 78 . Speaker 13 also indicated that it appeared that the Council was fighting the resolutions and that the choice was binary : " either support it and adopt it or we reject it " . The approach did not accommodate the middle - ground suggested by the Chair that the Council apply its mind to the individual clauses of the resolution , and consider moderating the language of the clauses , to the extent necessary . <p> 79 . I considered the individual clauses and raised my concern with the Chair about clause 7 and the findings that this clause attributed to the International Court of Justice . It indicates that " the /CJ has found plausible evidence of a genocide taking place in Gaza " . I expressed the view that the ICJ did not make these findings . It concluded that South Africa 's right to assert a claim of genocide on behalf of the Palestinian people was plausible . It did not , in the context of granting provisional measures , find the evidence was plausible . There is a distinction at international law between plausible rights and plausible evidence . The former President of the ICJ has also made this clear . <p> 80 . The Chair responded by suggesting different language . He indicated that " / was thinking more of saying something along the lines that we have always been committed to the rule of law . We have always been committed to upholding the values of our constitution . And one of them is very important , and that is to uphold international law . " <p> 81 . I agreed with this suggestion of the Chair and said " Absolutely " . <p> 82 . Speaker 13 sought to rebut my intervention . I then explained the meaning of a plausible right , in the context of provisional measures , with reference to the ICJ 's decision in the Gambia v Myanmar.51explained to Speaker 13 that I had broad sympathy for what was sought to be achieved by the resolutions . My impression was that Speaker 13 was not willing to adopt any position that accommodated the concerns expressed by Council members . The Council was required to either support the resolution or reject - there was no middle ground or nuance permitted . <p> 83 . The debate that followed this returned to the unknown consequences of adopting the Antisemitism resolution . <p> 84 . Speaker 13 again explained why the resolution called for the rejection of the IHRA definition of antisemitism . <p> " Now , the IHRA definition , Prof Mendelsohn from UCT himself at a Senate meeting had said that he was aware that the IHRA definition is used to curb and violate academic freedom . He said that . And therefore , he is a signatory to the Jerusalem Declaration on Antisemitism . Yet , we have got other people here coming to say that I misunderstand IHRA " <p> 85 . I wish to state the following about the debate between the IHRA definition of antisemitism and the Jerusalem Declaration : <p> 85.1 . Before the Council meeting of 22 June 2024 , I had never heard of the IHRA definition or the Jerusalem Declaration on Antisemitism . Both instruments were entirely new to me . <p> 85.2 . In preparing for the meeting , I accepted that the IHRA definition goes too far in its definition of antisemitism and that this has the effect of limiting free speech . This is because attachment A5aii said so , and I accepted that it was correct . I understood from the discussion in Council that the Jerusalem Declaration , by contrast , does not do so . This was based on what Speaker 13 had said in the Council . <p> 85.3 . I did not really understand the controversy because I did not understand the complexity of the debate behind these two definitions . All of the affidavits in this matter have assisted me greatly in understanding the complexity of the debate between the two definitions of antisemitism . I have , in particular , found the opinion of Geoffrey Robertson KC annexed to the answering affidavit , to be of particular assistance . This opinion , and the other material contained in the answering affidavit , would have assisted Council 's deliberations considerably . But it is also not readily apparent to me why it is impossible for the two definitions to live side - by- side . <p> 85.4 . The deliberations before the Senate about the definition would also have assisted the Council . My impression from Speaker 13 's contributions in Council was that the applicant - whose work concerns the study of antisemitism - would himself support the rejection of the IHRA definition . It now apparent that Speaker 18 was correct when he indicated that " / think that the IHRA thing is more complicated than Speaker 13suggests " . Unfortunately , there was no elaboration on this and the complexity of the debate that served before the Senate . <p> 85.5 . Having said all of this , It remains unclear to me why the University should adopt any definition of antisemitism as a matter of policy . But I admit that my thinking on this is unsophisticated - it is not based on an appreciation of the full complexity of the definitions of antisemitism , and the need for them . <p> 86 . After discussion on the IHRA definition , the Chair returned to the suggestion of revising the resolution . He indicated that the Council could " retain the essence of what was adopted , but perhaps to tone it down , quite frankly " . Speaker 13 rejected this : " Chair , that is not on the table , Chair . There is a motion on the table to adopt this resolution of Senate " . <p> 87 . This prompted an exchange between the Chair and Speaker 13 , who suggested that there was no merit to amending portions of the motion that are of concern . He expressed the view that " Apartheid was also divisive , Chair " and yet , " we took positions " , " we did not try to please everybody " . I regarded this statement as unfair to what the Chair was trying to achieve . <p> 88 . The Chair explained that - <p> " I do , you know me , I do a lot of things in my private capacity too , but , you know , we are sitting here as a university council trying to keep the place together , and whatever we decide here does have consequences for the university . And then your view , my view , when we step outside of here , does not matter anymore . It is what the university stands for " <p> 89 . I raised a question about the possibility of referring the motion back to Senate with our concerns . This question was not answered . After various members expressed a concern about the time spent debating the motion and the possibility of losing quorum , the matter was put to the Council for its decision . <p> 90 . There were 17 members of Council present . Two motions were presented to the Council for a vote : <p> 90.1 . The first motion was to adopt the Senate 's resolution . <p> 90.2 . The second motion was merely to note the Senate 's resolution . <p> 91. 11 members voted for motion 1 , which was to adopt the Senate 's resolution ( without any amendments ) , and 6 members voted for motion 2 , to merely note the resolution of Senate . <p> 92 . The Antisemitism Resolution was therefore adopted by the Council . It has become University policy . <p> THE IDF RESOLUTION <p> 93 . Council considered the IDF Resolution immediately after its decision on the Antisemitism Resolution . The Senate 's motion was read out by the Chair and the Interim VC spoke to the motion . He indicated that there were three motions before the Senate , and that this was the second of the three . <p> 94 . The Interim VC explained that the motion was narrower in scope than the other two motions and referred to it as the ' academic boycott motion ' . The purpose of the motion was to sever links or ties with either individuals or institutions associated with the IDF or the Israeli military . <p> 95 . The Interim VC also mentioned that there was " an amendment to some extent , I suppose , clarified , that it would be as defined through author affiliations " . <p> 96 . AttachmentA5aii , which served before the Council , for purposes of its decision on this Resolution indicated three reasons for the resolution : <p> 96.1 . First , the ICJ 's finding of a prima facie case of genocide against Israel . <p> 96.2 . Second , the fact that intent and execution of genocide has historically involved vast sectors of a population - including ordinary people and medical and other experts . <p> 96.3 . Third , the widespread recognition of the concerns about dual use . <p> 97 . Speaker 13 then addressed the motion . He indicated his support for the motion and explained that it was a reasonable and justifiable limitation on academic freedom . He also explained that the motion sought to prevent " collaborations between UCT academics and the Israeli Defence Force " , although the wording of the motion was broader - it included " and/or the broader Israeli Military establishment " . I remain unclear what exactly is meant by the latter portion of the motion . <p> 98 . I intervened shortly after Speaker 13 's contribution to ask what the consequences for a breach of this resolution would be . In my view , this question was critical to whether it would be rational to pass the resolution because of Council 's duty to " govern " . <p> 98.1 . Both the Higher Education Act 101 of 1997 and UCT 's Institutional Statute recognise that the Council " governs " the University . <p> 98.2 . In terms of the Code of Conduct signed by all members of Council , " the Council also determines the nature and scope of the University 's social responsibilities , protects the institutional autonomy of the University , upholds the academic freedom of its members , and deliberates on the nature and role of the University " . <p> 98.3 . Speaker 13 's contribution contemplated a balancing exercising between the University 's social responsibilities , and its role , with the duty to uphold academic freedom . In that context , I sought information about the consequences for the breach of the motion , on academic freedom . <p> 98.4 . If an academic is fired , for example , for publishing a paper " around health and natural science " ( the wording in attachment A5aii ) because that paper was written with someone whose author affiliations are with the IDF , then there are serious implications for knowledge production and academic freedom , which Council members have a duty to uphold as part of their governance obligations . <p> 98.5 . Council members were effectively told by Speaker 13 to accept that the limitation on academic freedom was reasonable and justifiable without knowing what the nature and extent of the limitation is . <p> 99 . The Interim VC indicated that there had been no discussion on the nature and extent of the limitation at all . <p> 100 . The Interim VC further indicated that management would be required to implement a policy of the Council , and that it " would have to give thought to the question that you have posed " . In my view , this puts the cart before the horse . It is the Council who must be satisfied that its policy strikes the right balance - that is a policy decision , not an implementation decision . <p> 101 . I then indicated that - <p> " ... It would seem to me to be the height of irrationality to adopt a motion where we do not know what the consequences are , and where there are serious implications for academic freedom . I am very cautious about that . It is just a comment " . <p> All I am saying is that if this kind of thing were to go to court , it would seem to me to be a very easy review to say that this is irrationality par excellence . " <p> 102 . I made this statement because understanding the consequences for academic freedom is a material and relevant consideration to our very function as Council members - the duty to govern . <p> 103 . Speaker 13 responded to me . He indicated that I was " giving a legal opinion in hyperbole " . He explained that there was a document from the academic freedom committee that recognises the resolution as being reasonable and justifiable . I had not seen or been provided with that document . <p> 104 . Another member of Council asked a question about the consequences for conscripts and whether they would be targeted by the resolution . Speaker 13 suggested that they would not . <p> 105 . Speaker 13 then moved for the adoption of Senate 's IDF Resolution . 12 members supported the resolution and 5 voted against . The Resolution was therefore adopted as a policy of the Council . <p> 106 . I noted my objection to this resolution . <p> Ill . THE COUNCIL MEETING OF 27 JULY 2024 <p> 107 . The new Council convened on 6 July 2024 . The Chair was re-elected to this position at the meeting , and members of Council were elected to the various committees of the Council . The first ordinary meeting of the new Council took place on 27 July 2024 . <p> 108 . At the meeting of 27 July 2024 , a member of Council asked the Interim VC three questions : ( a ) whether there were donors who were no longer donating to UCT ; <p> ( b ) and if so , what reasons were provided for this decision ; and ( c ) whether an impact assessment had been conducted in respect of the impugned resolutions , given that some American donors were prohibited from making donations to institutions who had engaged in Boycott , Divestment and Sanctions ( BDS ) activity . <p> 109 . The Interim VC 's response was that there were some donors who were no longer donating and that they would wait and see how UCT manages the situation . Major donors had indicated that they would wait and see what direction the University would take . The Interim VC confirmed that no formal impact assessment had been conducted to determine the impact of the impugned resolutions . Such an assessment was conducted in 2019 regarding other resolutions that were not passed by the Council . <p> 110 . Another member of Council asked whether the University should be concerned responded that there were certain risks and referenced in particular donations by the Donald Gordon Foundation and the Dell Foundation . The Interim VC did not indicate that a breach letter had been sent by the DGF on 30 April 2024 . It was also not disclosed that the Council 's rejection of the IHRA definition on 22 June 2024 , could give rise to a cancellation of the agreement . <p> 111 . The Interim VC also mentioned that he had meetings with the former Consul - General of the United States of America who had indicated that resolutions of the kind passed by UCT could impact grants from federally - funded bodies such as the National Institute of Health ( NIH ) . <p> 112 . A member proposed a motion that the implementation of the impugned resolutions be suspended pending a due diligence assessment concerning the impact of the resolutions . <p> 113 . There was opposition to this motion . A counter - motion was raised against suspending the implementation of the resolutions . The counter - motion did , however , agree with conducting a broad impact assessment on ( a ) the University 's finances ( b ) the relationship between Council and the Senate , ( c ) the student body and ( d ) the Council 's duty to uphold the values of the University and its commitment to academic freedom . <p> 114 . The motion to suspend pending a due diligence investigation received 10 votes ; and the counter motion received 16 votes . The counter - motion was carried as a decision of the Council . <p> 115 . On 27 August 2024 , Council members received an email from the Registrar . <p> That email contained the notice of motion and founding affidavit in this application , challenging the Council 's resolutions passed on 22 June 2024 . <p> 116 . I considered the application . I was surprised by the facts concerning the background to the 2019 resolutions . <p> 117 . I was concerned that Council may have exercised a power that it did not have based on paragraph 54 of the founding affidavit . <p> 118 . I immediately contacted the Registrar and asked for a copy of the two legal opinions referred to in paragraph 54 . <p> 119 . The Registrar responded on 29 August 2024 indicating that the legal opinions could not be provided because they were subject to Council 's confidentiality regime . Releasing the opinions would require a decision of the Council . <p> 120 . I annex these emails as KP4 . <p> 121 . On 1 September 2024 , the Registrar emailed all Council members with a message from the Chair of Council . The message was as follows : <p> " Dear Council colleagues , <p> It was the intention to call a special meeting of Council and which meeting 's deliberations would be informed by a legal opinion on the matter of the court application that has been launched by Professor Mendelsohn . A legal opinion will , however , take some time to prepare . UCT must , by 13 September , file a record of documents that relate to the resolutions adopted by Council . Thereafter , the Applicant in this matter may supplement the notice of motion and founding affidavit ( by 30 September ) , whereafter UCT will have 15 days ( i.e. by 21 October ) in which to file a notice of opposition ( should that be the decision of Council ) , and 30 days after that to file an answering affidavit i.e. by 2 December ) . These days are court days and not calendar days . <p> The legal opinion that UCT will seek can only reasonably be expected after 30 September , at which point a supplemented application can be considered in full by UCT 's legal team . It is therefore preferable to schedule a meeting of Council that takes the above timeline into account , and not proceed this week with such a special meeting as was initially suggested . <p> Yours sincerely Norman Arendse Chair of Council <p> 122 . It appeared from this message that a rule 53 record would be filed without the input of members of Council who were present when the impugned resolutions were passed . I emailed the Registrar and asked which documents would form part of the record . The Registrar responded that it would be the documents that served before the Council on 22 June 2024 , as well as the documents of the Council on 27 July 2024 . The Registrar further indicated he will rely on the legal team to advise on what other documents should be included . It appeared from this that a legal team had already been appointed . <p> 123 . I thanked the Registrar and asked him to let me know when the record is filed . <p> I later requested that the brief to counsel be sent to me . These emails are annexed as KP5 . <p> 124 . I discussed the application with some of my colleagues on the Council . I was concerned about how little I knew , as a member who joined the Council four months before the impugned resolutions were passed . <p> 125 . I told these colleagues that I was particularly concerned about not being informed during the meeting of 22 June 2024 that UCT had concluded a donor agreement which adopted the IHRA definition of antisemitism , as the applicant contended was the case in para 52.5 of his founding affidavit . <p> 126 . Since the Council took a decision to reject the definition , I could not understand why ( to the extent that para 52.5 was correct ) it was not disclosed to the Council members that there was a pre - existing agreement requiring UCT to adopt the IHRA definition . <p> 127 . A colleague then alerted me to the agenda for the Council 's Executive Committee 's ( Exco ) meeting that took place on 22 August 2024 . The agenda for that meeting was uploaded to Convene on 15 August 2024 . The agenda included the minutes of the Exco for its meeting on 23 May 2024 , which Exco was required to approve on 22 August 2024 . <p> 128 . The following is recorded in the minutes : <p> " The Chair drew attention to the signing of the agreement with the Confederation of African Football and a meeting with the Donald Gordon Foundation who had committed a large donation to the Neurosciences Institute project . The Vice - Chancellor told EXCO that Hilton Applebaum had written to the Chair of Council and himself in the wake of the Senate 's resolution pertaining to the academic boycott of institutions and individuals involved with the Israeli military and had ( i ) indicated that UCT was in breach of the agreement with the Donald Gordon Foundation in as far as the agreement contained a clause stipulating that UCT shall adopt a zero tolerance attitude to antisemitism and ( ii ) suggested a meeting to discuss the types of measures UCT should be taking . The Vice - Chancellor has responded to the Applebaums by informing them of what he had in mind in seeking avenues for engagement with the university community and suggested that it would be appropriate to wait until after the election on 29 May before proceeding . He indicated further that the Dell Foundation had indicated very soon after the Senate meeting that it will be suspending funding to UCT . <p> In the discussion that followed members made the following inputs : <p> * Cautioned the University against manipulation by funders that had pro - Israel stance and not to sacrifice its principles for funding . <p> * Spoke about donor power and donor privilege noting that it was perfectly in order for donors to expect institutions to which they donated to live up to certain values and behaviours but that it was unacceptable to use a single issue to exercise power in a way that was disproportionate . <p> * Suggest that UCT should subscribe to the Jerusalem Declaration . <p> * Asked for clarification of the bargaining process with the PASS staff unions . <p> * Asked for more information on the agreement with the Confederation of African Football . <p> The Chair informed EXCO that during these difficult discussions , no decisions were made that were contrary to the values of the University . He emphasised the importance of keeping discussions going and that the resolution adopted by the Senate would only become the university 's position if adopted by Council . <p> The Vice - Chancellor confirmed that the University will abide by its values and uphold the principles of academic freedom . He noted that he would continue to oppose any notion that the antisemitism was rife on campus . " <p> 129 . The minutes reflect that : <p> 129.1. 7 ( Exco ) members present at the meeting of the Council on 22 June <p> 2024 were aware of , at the very least , one of the potential consequences of rejecting the IHRA definition of antisemitism . They were explicitly <p> asked about the potential consequences and did not mention the fact that UCT was placed in breach of a donor agreement . <p> 129.2 . One or more Exco member spoke about adopting the Jerusalem Declaration knowing that UCT had already been placed in breach of the DGF donor agreement and that the Antisemitism resolution passed by the Senate called for the rejection of the IHRA definition of antisemitism . <p> 129.3 . Exco members also spoke about the abuse of donor power and manipulation by funders with a pro - Israel stance . <p> 129.4 . Exco members were entitled to inform the Council of their views in relation to the DGF at the meeting of 22 June 2024 . The Council could then engage with this in order to determine whether their views are correct and whether certain steps could be taken to avoid the cancellation of a donor agreement . My impression is that members of Exco made a decision about what to disclose to the Council based on their own views about donors and the agreements that had already been concluded . <p> 129.5 . The Council was deprived of an opportunity to engage with the sentiments expressed at the Exco meeting because of the non - disclosure . Council 's ability to " govern " depended entirely on what Exco saw fit to disclose . <p> 129.6 . As regards the Dell Foundation , the minutes make it clear that Dell had already decided to suspend funding to UCT after the Senate passed the resolutions . This consequence was real and immediate . It was known before 22 June 2024 but not disclosed . <p> 129.7 . I have sought the recording of the Exco meeting to determine whether there was any indication at this meeting that Dell was merely pressing pause " with a view to observing developments at UCT and reconsidering its position " ( the language of para 202 of the answering affidavit ) . For the reasons set out above , I have not been provided with the recording . <p> 130 . On 5 September 2024 , I addressed a letter to the Chair of Council and the Registrar with 3 other Council members . The letter raised our governance concerns . <p> 131 . We raised the fact that the legal opinions concerning Council 's power to pass boycott resolutions were not disclosed to it ; nor the fact that passing the resolutions would breach a donor agreement . We requested clarity on the following : <p> 131.3 . If it is correct , why the agreement was not disclosed on , before , or after 22 June 2024 . <p> 131.4 . Whether the donor has communicated with UCT regarding the Gaza resolutions and its implications for the donor agreement . <p> 131.5 . Whether UCT has been placed in breach of the donor agreements ; and , <p> 131.6 . The liability that will arise if UCT is placed in breach , and the implications for the signatories to the agreement in light of the non - disclosure of the agreement to Council when the Gaza resolutions were adopted . <p> 132 . The letter emphasised that it was important for these questions to be answered so that members of Council may be confident that there was no dereliction of a duty to the Council . <p> 133 . The Chair did not answer these questions when they were asked . <p> 134 . When our letter was received on 5 September 2024 , the Chair had knowledge that the DGF cancelled the agreement one month earlier , on 6 August 2024 . This was not brought to the Council 's attention on or after 6 August 2024 . <p> 135 . Council was never formally appraised of this fact , nor would Council have sight of the cancellation letter until 22 May 2025 . It only had sight of the letter because of the DGF 's correspondence to the Council on that date . <p> 136 . The Exco met on 5 September 2024 to consider the notice of motion and founding affidavit in this matter as well as the letter we addressed to the Chair of Council and Registrar earlier that day . <p> 137 . There are no minutes for the Exco meeting of 5 September 2024 . <p> 138 . On 6 September 2024 , the Registrar responded to the letter of the previous day and informed us that the Chair intended calling a special meeting of the Council for 5 October 2024 where our letter would be discussed . I responded to the Registrar and thanked him for the response . I requested that the Registrar obtain legal advice on the lawfulness of the confidentiality regime , because the legal opinions referred to in the founding affidavit would assist the Council 's deliberations on 5 October 2024 . <p> 139 . The Registrar indicated that his remit was to convey the outcome of the Exco meeting . An exchange of emails between the Chair and I then occurred . The outcome of the exchange was that no legal advice would be sought and that it was for Council to decide whether to lift the confidentiality of its own documents to members of Council . <p> 140 . The correspondence between 5 and 6 September 2024 is annexed as KP6 . It is clear from this correspondence that paragraph 310.4 of the answering affidavit was not applicable during that period . That Council members may now obtain the documents of a previous Council is a recent position that arises from concerted efforts to reform the confidentiality regime . The Council has had to obtain multiple different legal opinions about this . And as the Chair is aware , it is not correct that Council members could obtain the documents of a previous Council during June 2024 . <p> 141 . The notice of the special meeting for 5 October 2024 went out on 9 September 2024 : <p> 141.1 . A member of the Council , Prof Glenda Gray , responded to the request and raised three items for the consideration of the Council ahead of the meeting on 5 October 2025 : " ( 1 ) do we have copies of the statementsthat other universities have made , to see how much different UCT 's is to the other universities in South Africa ? I am familiar with the Wits statement ; ( 2 ) Also , do we have a legal opinion on the affidavits and letters sent to the council ? ( 3 ) Did Senate get the same correspondence , or did it only go to the Council ? " <p> 141.2 . I responded to the email of Prof Gray . I indicated that I sought the legal opinions to which she refers but was told that they could not be provided because of the confidentiality regime . I then provided three reasons why it would not be helpful , for purposes of this litigation , to consider the statements of other Universities . The Council did not consider those statements when it made its decision on 22 June 2024 . To do so now would be an ex post facto rationalisation . <p> 141.3 . The Chair responded to my email and explained that I had misunderstood what Prof Gray meant by legal advice . He agreed that " as regards what other universities ' views or opinions are , I agree that it is not relevant to the consideration of the pending application " . <p> 142 . There was then an exchange of emails between the Registrar , the Chair and me . Those emails concerned , what I regarded to be a contradiction about who exercised the power to obtain legal advice . I discovered in the process that a system of delegation exists where the Council has delegated the power to obtain advice to the Registrar of the Council . An earlier email of the Chair indicated that he had sought legal advice on the merits of the application . I sought clarity from the Registrar and the Chair about who exercised this power under the system of delegation . <p> 143 . The question was never clearly answered , but the implication of the Registrar 's email of 13 September 2024 was that he exercised the power in consultation with the Chair . The Registrar expressed the view that my questioning made him feel like he was on trial . <p> 144 . I responded as follows ( with Chair in copy ) : " Dear Royston , <p> I apologise for making you feel that you are on trial . That was not my intention , but I can understand why my emails have come across in that manner . From my perspective , I am concerned about very serious aspects of governance that have been raised over the last few weeks . It is for this reason only that I have sought clarity on aspects of governance which I 've found concerning . It has not filled me with any joy to send the emails that I have , but I take the code of conduct that I signed seriously . And it is in fulfilment of my fiduciary obligations to the University that I 've requested the information . <p> The responses received to date regarding concerns by various members of council have contributed to the feeling that there are serious governance problems to be addressed . In my view , the flurry of emails could have been avoided entirely if there was transparency and openness from the beginning . <p> As examples , consider the following : <p> ( 1 ) A rule 53 record must be filed today . Members of Council were decision - makers who were part of the process resulting in the adoption of the Gaza resolutions . The notice of motion seeks a record of " the respondenti ; ( . Members of Council played no role in preparing the record . It has been prepared in a manner that is n't transparent despite the fact that there were various decision makers . I have requested information regarding what will form part of the record and I was told that it would consist of the minutes and other documents , but that the decision will be guided by the legal representatives involved . <p> ( 2 ) Members of council sought information necessary for , and fundamental to , making a rational decision on whether the review application should be opposed or not . As matters stand , I do not know whether Mendelssohn is correct about the donor agreement to which he refers , or whether he is correct about the legal opinion to which he refers . If he is wrong about these matters , then there may be very good reason to oppose the application . But I can only make these decisions rationally if I have all of the information relevant to making that decision . I am expected to walk into a special meeting and fulfil my fiduciary obligations to the University , without having all the necessary information at hand . I am sure that you can see why this is troublesome . <p> ( 3 ) It is puzzling that legal advice has been sought on the merits of the review when this advice turns on certain factual instructions such as whether the donor agreement was before council and whether council considered legal advice on its powers . I have requested a copy of the brief to the legal representatives but this too has been refused . I am sure that you can understand my concern that the lack of transparency has made me doubt the facts that have been provided for purposes of the legal opinion . It has been disappointing that I have doubted whether the matter has been held appropriately . <p> Your personal view below regarding the documents only increases my concern about governance . I have considered a PAIA application a week ago , but realised that it would be futile for three reasons : ( 1 ) it would take too long ; ( 2 ) it could be refused for confidentiality reasons , in which case I would have to go to court which I would prefer not to ; and ( 3 ) most importantly , I want to get the answer right for all proceedings of council , and not deal with this on an ad hoe basis . Hence , the request for a legal opinion . <p> In any case , I am glad that you made the decision even though I disagree with the outcome of the decision . <p> It is not my intention to interrogate you , but at the same time , It would be remiss of me not to raise questions that I regard as necessary to the exercise of my fiduciary obligations to the University . As always , I am grateful for your consideration of my emails and concerns . <p> Best KP " <p> 145 . I annex the emails between 9 and 13 September 2024 as KP7 . <p> THE MEETING OF 5 OCTOBER 2024 <p> 146 . The Council was meant to take a decision on whether to oppose the application or not at this meeting , but this decision had to be deferred until legal advice could be obtained on the merits . The advice could not be secured ahead of the meeting . <p> 147 . As part of the meeting , the Council considered the record filed by the Chair on 13 September 2024 . That record was filed on behalf of the second ( the Chair ) and the thirty - second respondents ( UCT ) . Yet , there was no decision of either of these respondents impugned in the application . <p> 148 . At the meeting of 5 October 2024 , the Council considered whether to release the audio recording of the meeting of 22 June 2024 , in relation to the debate on the impugned resolutions . Council had legal advice on the matter . I do not disclose the content of that advice . <p> 149 . There was a strong sentiment in the Council that no audio recording should be released , and there was the suggestion that the Council should consider an interlocutory fight on the record alone and exhaust all appeals concerning that dispute . There was even a suggestion that a redacted transcript should not be provided . I advised the Council that this would be improper and that there was a duty to disclose the audio recording following the judgment in Helen Suzman Foundation v Judicial Service Commission 2018 ( 4 ) SA 1 ( CC ) . <p> 150 . Some members of Council expressed a concern that releasing the audio recording would allow for identification and targeting of members of the Council for the expression of their views . Some of these concerns were raised by members who were not part of the meeting of 22 June 2024 . <p> 151 . The Chair suggested that the Council consider the matter at a later stage by a round - robin decision , after further legal advice is secured , and after the supplementary founding affidavit is deposed to . I asked the Chair how it would be possible for the applicant to file a supplementary founding affidavit without a complete record being filed . My recollection is that he said that he did not know . <p> 152 . The further legal advice was provided on 14 October 2024 . I do not disclose its contents . On 15 October 2024 , the Chair issued a Council Circular calling for members to vote on whether the audio recording should be released . The deadline for the vote was close of business on Thursday 17 October 2024 . <p> 153 . On the evening of 17 October 2024 , the outcome of the decision was announced . <p> 153.1. 16 votes against releasing the audio recording . <p> 153.2. 8 votes supported releasing the audio recording . <p> 154 . I annex this correspondence as KP8 . <p> THE MEETING OF 19 OCTOBER 2024 <p> 155 . This meeting was an ordinary Council meeting with a full agenda . I could not join the meeting when it started at 09h00 because I had a bereavement in my family . I could only join the meeting just before 13h00 . <p> The Establishment of the Ad Hoe Committee <p> 156 . I have read the minutes for this meeting with a particular focus on what transpired before lunch . The minutes record that in the course of the VC 's report to the Council a concern was raised by Prof Moultrie that the previous Interim VC may have misled the Council by not disclosing certain information relevant to the impugned resolutions . Prof Moultrie referred to the Exco minutes of May 2024 where the Interim VC notes the breach letter by the DGF . <p> 157 . The Chair explained that after the Exco meeting in May 2024 , he had two meetings with the trustees of the DGF . One was in person attended by the applicant and the other was a telephonic conversation . The Chair reassured the trustees that the University 's actions are not antisemitic and that it is committed to treating everyone equally . The minutes also record that the Chair " noted that at that stage he was of the view that it was a matter that was still pending and ongoing " . <p> 158 . Four other members , who were present at the meeting of 22 June 2024 , and who had knowledge of the DGF donor agreement explained why Council was not misled . <p> 159 . The first member - <p> " reminded Council that she was involved in formulating a Council resolution based on informed principles . She did not believe that there were any untruths from the interim Vice - Chancellor . She emphasised that all Council members understood the risks associated with the R 200 million donation to the Neuroscience Institute . The resolution was created in the context of a national higher education legislation that outlines governance responsibilities , including public accountability , social responsibility , institutional autonomy , and academic freedom . She highlighted ethical concerns regarding the DGF , which insisted on naming rights in exchange for funding , raising implications for tax regulations . She noted that this was not the first instance of the DGF withdrawing funds . She criticised the DGF for using strong - arm tactics to influence the University when their views were not aligned with the Institution 's approach . She expressed concern about the ethical implications of accepting funding from donors who may have questionable backgrounds , comparing it to potentially accepting funds from organised crime . She questioned the morality of such decisions , especially in light of serious issues like genocide currently being addressed at the International Court of Justice . <p> 160 . I do not regard the statement that Council members " understood the risks associated with the R200 million donation to the Neuroscience Institute " as correct . <p> 161 . I certainly did not understand the risks associated with the resolution and the donation because I was not aware that the donor agreement included a clause concerning the IHRA definition on antisemitism . <p> 162 . The second member- " challenged the assertion that only five Council members were aware of the potential funding issues , arguing that the impact on the DGF funding was discussed prior to the resolution decision . He believed that the news of the funding reconsideration from the DGF and Dell Foundations spread quickly throughout the University , suggesting that many Council members were aware of the funding threat . The Chair suggested that this information should be included in the investigation and proposed members communicate with the appointed committee to inform the report back to Council at a future meeting . " <p> 163 . This statement is false . There was no discussion of any DGF funding prior to Council 's decision to pass the impugned resolutions . The statement is concerning for a further reason . It suggests that disclosure was not necessary because the information was widespread and known by other Council members . If the information was not disclosed because it is assumed to be known , then ii is difficult to understand how ripeness features as a reason for non - disclosure . <p> 164 . This member has filed a confirmatory affidavit confirming paragraphs 242 to 253 where the reason advanced for non - disclosure , by all of the Excomembers , concerns the ripeness of the matter for Council 's consideration . <p> 165 . The third member - <p> " stated the allegations made by Prof Moultrie , specifically regarding five members of the Council Exco allegedly misleading the Council were very serious and could not go unchallenged . He expressed strong objections to this claim , asserting that as a member of Exco and Council , he was acting in good faith and categorically denied the accusations . <p> 166 . The fourth member - <p> " expressed discomfort regarding the situation involving the Interim Vice- Chancellor . She found it reprehensible and unacceptable to question the Interim Vice - Chancellor 's good faith . She highlighted the complexity and uncertainty surrounding the situation with donors and argued against making judgments about someone who was not present to defend themselves . " <p> 167 . The Chair suggested that a subcommittee be appointed to consider the matter and report back to the Council . A subcommittee consisting of 7 members was appointed . The Council resolved that draft terms of reference for the committee would be prepared by Prof Moultrie . The draft terms would then be circulated for the input of Council members , and the final terms of reference would be adopted through a round - robin decision . <p> The Decision to Oppose the Application <p> 168 . Towards the end of the meeting on 19 October 2024 , the Council considered whether to oppose this application . It discussed the legal advice on the merits of the application . Ahead of the meeting , I raised certain additional questions for the legal representatives concerning their advice , and I was sent the response to my questions by the Registrar during the meeting on 19 October 2024 . <p> 169 . I explained to the Council why I did not support opposing the application , and why I disagreed with the legal advice received . <p> 170 . I do not disclose my reasons because it would have the effect of revealing the legal advice , which is privileged . The answering affidavit expressly claims the privilege of the legal advice and nothing I say here should be understood as undermining that claim . <p> 171 . Another member of Council , who is also an advocate of this Court drew the Council 's attention to the decision in Freedom Under Law v Judicial Services Commission and Another 2023 3 All SA 631 ( SCA ) . He explained that where a deliberative body is narrowly split on a matter , and where there is strong disagreement between members , the appropriate course of action is to abide the decision of the Court and file explanatory affidavits setting out the different perspectives . <p> 172 . The Chair asked for my opinion on this . I indicated that I agreed with this and referenced the decision of Cash Paymaster Services ( Pty ) Ltd v Eastern Cape Province and Others 1999 ( 1 ) SA 324 ( Ck ) . <p> 173 . The matter was then put to a vote and there were two motions before the Council : <p> 173.1 . The first motion was to abide the decision of the Court . This received 10 votes . <p> 173.2 . The second motion was to oppose the application . This received 16 votes . <p> 174 . The Council therefore resolved to oppose the application . <p> 175 . The Council then took 5 further decisions : <p> 175.1 . The first was to " ratify the Registrar 's decision to instruct Fairbridges Wertheim Becker to act as attorneys of record for the Chairperson of the Council and the University of Cape Town . " <p> 175.2 . The second was to " instruct Fairbridges Wertheim Becker to act as attorneys of record for the Council . " <p> 175.3 . The third was to " ratify the decision of the Chairperson to despatch the rule 53 record of the proceedings of the Council impugned on 22 June 2024 . " <p> 175.4 . The fourth was that " the record of proceedings the Chairperson of Council despatched on 13 September 2024 , stands as the record of the Council . Council members may indicate additional information they may wish to include in a supplemented record , and this will be put to UCT 's legal counsel for further advice . " <p> 175.5 . The fifth was that the Council " authorised the Chairperson of the Council to act on behalf of the Council in these proceedings , in his official andrepresentative capacity , with retrospective effect to 13 September 2024 i.e. the date the record was despatched . <p> 176 . I voted against each of these motions . <p> 177 . It is clear from these resolutions that no complete record was - or could be - filed on 13 September 2024 . The Council only ratified the Chair 's conduct in filing the record on 19 October 2024 . And that stage , members of Council were afforded an opportunity to add to the record . <p> The Ad Hoc Committee 's Terms of Reference <p> 178 . On 21 October 2024 , the Council received an email informing it that the draft terms of reference , as prepared by Prof Moultrie , had been uploaded to Convene . Members were required to add their input to the terms of reference by 25 October 2024 . <p> 179 . On 4 November 2024 , the Council received a message from the Chair . The message advised that there appeared to be some misunderstanding about whether Prof Moultrie would finalise the terms of reference of the ad hoe committee . The message suggested that Prof Moultrie understood that he was required to do so . The Chair suggested that the terms of reference be considered by the ad hoe committee , and that they revert to the Council with a recommendation on their own terms of reference , alternatively the Council could decide to abort the ad hoc committee process . <p> 180 . The Chair 's message was accompanied by three documents : ( 1 ) a short transcript of the Council meeting of 19 October 2024 concerning Prof Moultrie 's role in formulating the terms of reference ; ( 2 ) the terms of reference as prepared by Prof Moultrie ; and ( 3 ) Prof Moultrie 's draft terms of reference as supplemented by members of Council . <p> 181 . There were two items on the supplemented terms of reference that concerned me : <p> 181.1 . Item 7 , which read : <p> " In the event that the matters were not adequately aired at the Council meeting of 22 June 2024 , whether this would have substantively changed the decision of Council to support the motions of Senate <p> It is recognised that the allegations made against the VC Interim and the 5 Council members were very serious and made in an open forum of the new Council , despite Prof Moultrie not being at the May Exco and June Council meetings and that the minutes of the May Exco is still not available . If it is found that the allegations are without merit that an appropriate sanction be brought against Professor Moultrie . <p> 181.2 . Item 8 , which read : <p> " Having regard to the Council Minute of 22 June that records inter alia that those who voted in favour of the resolution expressed " concerns that the university WOULD LOSE FUNDING but that this raised greater questions about the morals and values of the university in accepting funding from states or institutions that may be supporting a state complicit in a potential genocide , would or is it likely that the specific mention of the risk of losing Donald Gordon Foundation funding or Dell funding by the Interim VC have materially influenced the outcome of the council decision . <p> Indeed , those who voted against the resolution cautioned against adopting the resolution without debating the implications for and obligations of the university . " <p> 182 . Two things are clear from the above : ( 1 ) there was an attempt to punish Prof Moultrie for raising a legitimate governance concern . This kind of retaliatory conduct has contributed to a culture of fear in the Council to address governance concerns ; ( 2 ) it was not competent to investigate an unknown - it is simply not possible to know what the outcome would have been on 22 June 2024 , had the disclosure been made . I dealt with this in my emails to the Chair , with reference to the no - difference principle in our law . <p> 183 . It is also not appropriate for some members of Council to determine what information is necessary for other members to exercise their governance obligations . And then withhold that information because , in their view , the information is not necessary or ripe for other members to fulfil their governance obligations . <p> 184 . There are serious implications for the University arising from this approach to governance . <p> 185 . On 4 November 2024 , I wrote to Registrar 's Secretariat cc'ing the Chair of Council and the VC . I asked for the names of those Council members who supplemented the draft the terms of reference . The reason for this is obvious : if conflicted members added to the terms of reference , those items would have to be excluded . I did not receive a response by 5 November 2024 . I sent a follow - up email indicating that I require the information before voting on the matter . <p> 186 . The Chair responded to my follow - up email . He indicated that the consent of the members who provided their input was being sought before disclosure could be made . He added that these members questioned why the information was relevant considering that the process is incomplete and subject to Council approval . <p> 187 . The Chair added " I personally do not see the need for you to be given the names and exact content of input of council members for you to make an informed decision that the matter ( referred to in the draft TOR ) be dealt with either by an ad hoe committee to report back to Council , or be dealt with by a full Council with no TOR at all " . <p> 188 . I responded to the Chair later that evening . My response was divided into two parts : <p> 188.1 . First , I explained why the information was necessary before voting because it concerned conflicts of interests . I set out the provisions of the Higher Education Act concerning conflicts and explained why it would be irrational to proceed with a decision without first dealing with any possible conflict . If the vote proceeds , the decision would be unlawful . The participation of conflicted persons taints the entire process . <p> 188.2 . Second , I explained that confidentiality simply does not arise . Adding to the terms of reference through a round - robin process is no different to the contributions that members make in Council when formulating terms of reference at an ordinary meeting . I could not see what was confidential about adding to the terms of reference . I asked the Chair what power he relied on to refuse the disclosure of the information on confidentiality grounds . <p> 188.3 . I emphasised portions of the Independent Investigation into UCT Governance : Final Report dated 11 October 2023 , prepared by retired Justices Mpati and Cachalia as well as Dr Bernadette Johnson and Dr Patricia Hanekom . This report concerned a previous governance crisis at UCT and explained that one of the reasons for the crisis is a lack of transparency and accountability by those in leadership positions at UCT . <p> 189 . On 6 November 2024 , the Chair responded . He thanked me for my input and " noted " it . He did not deal with the content of my email . Instead , he explained that the way forward would be determined by the outcome of the vote . He added that none of the conflicted members are on the ad hoe committee . <p> 190 . At paragraph 577 of the answering affidavit , the Chair indicates that no Exco members were involved in drafting the terms of reference . This is the first time that this fact is disclosed . I asked the question in November 2024 , and the Chair refused to answer it . He relied on confidentiality as a basis for this refusal . <p> The Chair also states that Prof Moultrie drafted the terms of reference . It is true that Prof Moultrie provided a first draft of the terms of reference , but it is not true that the processes ended there . <p> 192 . The outcome of the vote regarding the terms of reference was announced on 7 November 2024. 14 members supported the motion that the terms of reference be considered by the ad hoe committee , and that they report back to the Council . 2 members voted against this . And 4 members noted their objections to the vote and declined to participate because of procedural irregularities . <p> 193 . I annex the correspondence concerning the ad hoe committee 's terms of reference as KP9 . <p> 194 . The ad hoe committee considered its own terms of reference taking into account the two drafts it had before it - Prof Moultrie 's initial draft and the supplemented draft . On 7 December 2024 , the terms of reference - as decided by the ad hoe committee themselves - served before the Council . <p> 195 . The terms of reference proposed by the ad hoe committee excised the two items that I was concerned about ( the sanction against Prof Moultrie ; and an ex post facto attempt to determine whether the outcome would have been different ) . <p> 196 . At the meeting of 7 December 2024 , I moved the motion that the Council adopt the terms of reference recommended by the ad hoe committee . The motion was agreed to . I had hoped that the ad hoe committee process would speedily resolve a matter with serious governance implications for UCT . <p> 197 . To date , the ad hoe committee has not conducted any hearings to determine the reasons for non - disclosure . <p> V. THE COUNCIL MEETING OF 15 MARCH 2025 <p> 198 . The meeting on 15 March 2025 was an ordinary Council meeting . The VC presented a detailed and considered report to the Council . <p> 199 . Chapter 2.2. of that report dealt with research and internationalisation . It highlighted three risks to the University : ( a ) the risks associated with global sanctions ; ( b ) the risks associated with national sanctions ; and ( c ) risks that are specific to UCT because of the impugned resolutions . <p> 200 . Under global sanctions , the VC 's report highlighted that the United States Agency for International Development ( USAID ) has decided to freeze and terminate certain grants that affect UCT . The total loss for research projects , over the entire period for these projects , is R 31 million . The report also highlights that 5 USAID grants to UCT had largely been terminated . <p> 201 . Under national risk , the report explained that political developments have increased the risk of US federal agencies withdrawing funding to South African Universities altogether . UCT is particularly affected by this : <p> 201.1 . US Federal Agencies fund 155 projects at UCT through grants or subawards . The NIH , in particular , funds 140 research projects at UCT . These grants are valued at R 2.75 billion over the full project period . <p> 201.2 . The salaries of 475 research staff at UCT are either partially or fully dependent on NIH funding . 61 postgraduate students , 20 postdoctoral fellows and 13 post - award Finance staff stand to be affected by this funding loss . <p> 201.3 . Widespread retrenchment of over 200 staff is likely . And there is no funding to support more than 40 postgraduate students and postdoctoral fellows to ensure the completion of their work . <p> 201.4 . The attrition of academic staff will have adverse effects on UCT 's research output , subsidies and income , and may affect UCT 's rankings . <p> 202 . Under UCT - specific risk , the report highlights that the impugned resolutions have created a risk of UCT being specifically targeted by the US , in the same way other US Universities have been targeted . Credible information about this was disclosed to the Council . The report also explains that UCT staff may also be directly targeted through visa denials and restricted participation in US activities . <p> 203 . One of the mitigation strategies proposed in the report was " revising internalsanctions from impacting individual academics , make explicit UCT 's opposition to antisemitism and signal UCT 's commitment to academic freedom " . <p> 204 . The Council considered and debated the report . <p> 204.1 . Both the VC and the DVC for Research and Internationalisation spoke about the harm to UCT arising from each of the above three risks . The DVC made it clear that UCT was facing an " existential crisis " . The VC used similar language in describing the harm to UCT . <p> 204.2 . The DVC explained that the harm to UCT arising from this risk is generational . <p> 204.3 . UCT 's donor funding had reduced significantly in the space of a year . In 2023 , UCT received R 768.5 million in donor funds , and in 2024 it received 445.7 million in donor funds . <p> 204.4 . Most of the debate focused on why rescinding the impugned resolutions would affect the global and national risk . The VC made it clear that he does not have control over global and national risks , but he does have control over UCT - specific risk . He explained that it had become increasingly difficult to seek the support of donors because of the impugned resolutions . <p> 204.5 . It was explained that donor concerns were not limited to antisemitism . <p> 204.6 . They also concern free speech . 2 major donors have expressed concern about donating to UCT because of their disquiet over academic freedom and free speech at the University . <p> 204.7 . The DVC expressed the view that UCT had become a pariah institution with donors . <p> 204.8 . Both the VC and the DVC stressed that they could do something about the UCT specific risk but would need the support of the Council to do so . They implored Council to assist them . <p> 204.9 . Some members of Council asked the VC to explain why rescinding the impugned resolutions would address the global harm . The VC was at pains to explain that he was trying to mitigate the global harm by reducing the UCT - specific risk . He explained that he did not wish to lose any staff , and that by reducing the UCT - specific risk , the harm arising from the global risk could be ameliorated . The DVC explained the moral imperative of protecting staff and preventing job losses . He pleaded that for every job lost , there are multiple persons affected . <p> 204.10 . Various members of Council repeated the same question . The Chair did so too . He asked the VC whether rescinding the impugned resolutions would be a " silver bullet " . The VC repeated his explanation . <p> 204.11 . The VC also highlighted that Council takes decisions , without giving proper consideration to the consequences , and then leaves it to management to address the harm after Council has acted . <p> 204.12 . The VC specifically in terms asked Council to rescind the resolutions . <p> He said that if Council did not do so , it was asking the executive to do their work with their hands tied behind their backs . <p> 204.13 . The Chair defended the resolutions . He spoke at length , and in doing so , mischaracterised what the VC had said . The manner of his engagement with the VC was also unfortunate . I asked that the minute record my objection to the conduct of the Chair . He had deviated from his role as Chair and mispresented what the VC had said . Another member supported my objection to the Chair 's conduct . <p> 205 . A member of Council proposed a motion to rescind the impugned resolutions in the light of the harm expressed by the VC and the DVC . At paragraph 297 of the answering affidavit , the Chair states that this motion was raised in an unprocedural manner . That is not true . <p> 206 . The Council is entitled to raise a matter arising from an item on the agenda . In this case , the Council was entitled to raise a motion to rescind because it arises from the harm addressed by the VC 's report , which was on the agenda . <p> 207 . In any event , the Council specifically exercised section 20(4) ( b ) of the Institutional Statute and voted to entertain the motion to rescind . There was nothing unprocedural about this . It was entirely consistent with the Institutional Statute . <p> 208 . The motion before the Council was to rescind the impugned resolutions and withdraw the opposition in this case . There were 28 members of Council present for this vote . Two votes took place : <p> 208.1 . The first vote was on whether the Council should entertain the motion to rescind and withdraw the opposition in this case . The outcome of this vote was a tie : 14 in favour and 14 against . The Chair was thus called upon to exercise his casting vote in terms of the Institutional Statute . He exercised his vote in favour of allowing the motion to be considered . <p> 208.2 . The second vote was on whether to rescind and withdraw the opposition . <p> The outcome of this vote was 13 in favour of rescinding and withdrawing ; 14 against , with 1 abstention . <p> 208.3 . The motion to rescind and withdraw was narrowly defeated . <p> 209 . In the light of this vote , Freedom Under Law makes it clear that the proper course of action for UCT in this application is to abide the decision of this Court and place the different perspectives of Council members before the Court so that it may exercise its constitutionally entrenched review function . <p> 210 . At the meeting of 15 March 2025 , the Council also received a report from the ad hoe committee on its progress . It was clear from this report that the committee had not done any substantial work . No hearings were conducted to determine the reasons for non - disclosure . The committee indicated that ii hopes to complete its work by 21 June 2025 , ahead of the Council meeting in June . <p> 211 . There were interventions that suggested to me that the work of the ad hoe committee would not be realised . One member expressed concern about participating in the ad hoe committee because of the leaks of confidential information . He explained that he was concerned that there may be leaks arising from the ad hoe committee . He also explained that the ad hoe committee process was a duplication of the Court proceedings , and that the issue of non <p> - disclosure is being dealt with in the Court proceedings . He suggested that , as an alternative , the legal representatives could prepare a report for the ad hoe committee to consider , and the committee could then ask questions arising from that report . <p> 212 . The Chair made similar statements . He said that he had no difficulty appearing before the ad hoe committee but would need legal advice on whether it would be appropriate for him to do so . <p> 213 . I expressed my concern about these comments . They suggested an attempt to sidestep a Council process to obtain information so that the council is able to determine the truth and hold its members accountable . I explained that we have a duty to do so , regardless of the application brought by Prof Mendelsohn . <p> 214 . After the Chair filed his affidavit on 9 May 2025 , Ms Phelps ( who is a member of the ad hoe committee ) expressed the view to me that she agrees with the contention in the answering affidavit that all members of the ad hoe committee may be conflicted in dealing with the matter . The issue of non - disclosure has caused serious dissensus in Council , and it may be appropriate to dissolve the ad hoe committee . I understand that the ad hoe committee has suggested its dissolution , which the Council will consider in due course . <p> VI . THE SPECIAL MEETING OF 12 JUNE 2025 <p> 215 . As indicated above , the Chair filed the answering affidavit on behalf of the Council on 9 May 2025 , and members of Council did not have an opportunity to consider a draft of the affidavit before it was filed . <p> 216 . On 22 May 2025 , the DGF addressed a letter to the VC , the Chair of Council , the Interim Registrar and members of Council . In that letter the DGF contends that paragraphs 228 , 248.1. and 248.2. of the answering affidavit are false . They go on to say that the Chair of Council is aware that these paragraphs are false . <p> 217 . The contents of the letter raise important questions for the governance of UCT . The affidavit of Ms Sarah Archer received a few days before the DGF letter ( dated 19 May 2025 ) , as well as the affidavit of Prof Susan Harrison dated 20 May 2025 , also raise matters for the governance of the Council . <p> 218 . I spoke to a few of my colleagues on the Council about the DGF letter and all of the affidavits filed on behalf of UCT in this matter . It was decided that we have an obligation to call a special meeting to discuss the affidavits , as well as the DGF letter . We were also concerned that certain statements made in the affidavits were inconsistent with what members had said in the Council . And to the extent that this has occurred , the Council was asked to consider what steps should be taken to address this conduct , including a motion of no confidence . <p> 219 . The Mpati Report made it clear that one of the reasons for the previous governance crisis at UCT , is a failure in holding members accountable . All attempts to obtain information regarding the non - disclosure had not been successful to date . The purpose of the special meeting was to ensure accountability and transparency for what was said on behalf of the Council to this Court , and to address the allegations contained in the DGF letter . <p> 220 . The call for a special meeting was signed by 5 members of Council , in accordance with section 19 of the Institutional Statute , and went out on 2 June 2025 ( annexed as KP10 ) . The Interim Registrar informed Council members that the meeting would take place on 12 June 2025 . <p> 221 . On 5 June 2025 , 5 members of Council addressed a letter to the Council seeking to have the issues for the special meeting addressed at the ordinary meeting of 28 October 2025 . This request overlooked the fact that it is not permissible to collapse a special and ordinary meeting of the Council . <p> 222 . On 8 June 2025 , I addressed , to the Registrar , specific questions for the members of Council who did not disclose the DGF agreement to the Council , arising from the DGF letter dated 22 May 2025 ( annexed as KP11 ) . <p> 223 . The special meeting took place on 12 June 2025 in accordance with the Institutional Statute . But instead of the Council dealing with the items for the special meeting , the Chair refused to allow those who called the special meeting to address their call for the special meeting . <p> 224 . The Chair insisted that the Council entertain the letter of the other 5 Council members dated 5 June 2025 . This was procedurally irregular because section 19(3) of the Institutional Statute did not permit this . Worse still , the Chair refused to recuse himself despite it being clear that he had an obligation to do so . <p> 225 . The Council was engaged for almost two hours on the question of postponing the meeting , and who would be required to recuse themselves from voting on a motion to postpone . The Chair would not allow me to speak to the motion without interruption . At various points he indicated that he would not allow me to speak . He allowed members who spoke against the meeting taking place to speak without interruption . <p> 226 . Eventually , after considerable intervention , the Chair reluctantly accepted that he could not preside over the postponement or vote on it . <p> 227 . The Council then elected a Chair pro tern to preside over the meeting . It was decided , by a majority vote of the Council , that the special meeting should be postponed to 19 June 2025 to afford members of Council an opportunity to respond to the questions that I had raised on 8 June 2025 . The motion was moved by Prof Moultrie and was seconded by me . <p> 228 . Despite being afforded a further opportunity to address the questions that I had raised ; these questions were never answered by the Council members concerned . Indeed , over 15 and 17 June 2025 , 4 of the 5 Council to whom questions had been addressed , indicated that they were not available for the meeting on 19 June 2025 . <p> 229 . One member indicated that the call for a special meeting was a " manufactured , farcical crisis " , he explained that the meeting was not " urgent " and accused the interim Registrar of acting " questionably " . The correspondence also indicates that the allegations by the DGF and Dell are " hearsay " . The purpose of the meeting was to explain why the facts are incorrect . <p> 230 . I annex these emails as KP12 . <p> 231 . On 18 June 2025 , the Council received legal advice indicating that the special meeting could not go ahead and would be unlawful if ii did . The Council also had different advice indicating that the meeting could go ahead , provided there was a fair opportunity for affected members to address the allegations . <p> 232 . Acting out of an abundance of caution , those who called the special meeting decided that the meeting should be cancelled . We did not want to act contrary to legal advice , even though there was other advice indicating that the meeting could go ahead , provided that there was a fair opportunity to respond to the allegations . I annex the email cancelling the call for a special meeting as KP13 . <p> 233 . All of these facts show that there has been an attempt in the Council to hold its members accountable for the non - disclosure that took place on 22 June 2024 , but the attempts have not been successful . I have raised a Code of Conduct complaint concerning the non - disclosure on 25 March 2025 , and at the time of deposing to this affidavit , the Council is yet to decide what should happen with my complaint . <p> 234 . The Council has also sought to raise questions about the ripeness of the non - disclosure in the light of certain remarks made in the Council , in particular the suggestion that the information was so widespread and that it was assumed that other members of Council knew about the information . I have also asked certain Council members whether they agreed before the meeting of 22 June 2024 , not to disclose the DGF agreement through my written questions . These questions were not responded to . <p> 235 . It is also necessary for the Council to consider why the Chair signed the DGF agreement , in the light of his comments that the agreements violate academic freedom and free speech . This contention is made after UCT breached the agreement , which notice was not brought to the Council 's attention . There are legitimate concerns about why a breach letter was not ripe for disclosure to Council , considering the implications arising from this for Council members ' ability to govern . <p> 236 . UCT is not a hapless contracting party who is at the whim of other contracting parties . It is a sophisticated organ of state with ample legal resources available to it . Legitimate concerns about free speech and limits to it created by donor agreements should be debated and considered by the Council , and the Council should resolve how this is to be addressed with donors . It may be the case that the parties are able to agree to a suitable amendment that addresses all concerns . <p> 237 . But in order to reach decisions about the best way forward , the Council must have all of the necessary information to make these decisions . <p> 238 . Since adopting the impugned resolutions , the Council has constantly received new information concerning the consequences of passing the impugned resolution . <p> 238.1 . The first piece of information was the fact of a donor agreement , which was discovered from the founding affidavit . The founding affidavit did not disclose who the donor was . I only inferred that the donor was the DGF when I was directed to the May 2024 Exco minutes . <p> 238.2 . Ahead of the Council meeting on 7 December 2024 , it was discovered that the Neuroscience Institute was not consulted at all about the passing of the impugned resolutions . The Neuroscience Institute Governing Board wrote to the Council on 20 November 2024 , expressing concerns about the passing of the resolutions without consulting them . The Council made a decision directly affecting the work of the Institute without hearing from them first . <p> 238.3 . The possibility of a donation for a private academic hospital was only discovered after reading the minutes for the meeting of 19 October 2024 . I was unaware on 22 June 2024 , that the decision could affect the development of a hospital which has the potential to benefit a large number of people both at UCT and the broader Cape Town community . There was no opportunity to deliberate on this potential consequence for UCT and the broader community . <p> 238.4 . The Council did not know that the Dell Foundation had suspended funding when it took its decision on 22 June 2024 . <p> 238.5 . The Council also did not have a full appreciation for the financial consequences of its decision for the University . At each Council meeting , new facts concerning these consequences are brought to the Council 's attention . <p> 238.6 . And the Council was not aware of the engagements between the DGF and the University as well as Dell and the University . These facts , from the perspective of both donors , have been brought to the Council 's attention . The Council has not been able to obtain the perspective of the Exco members . <p> 239 . It is likely that the consequences of Council 's decision will not be fully known any time soon . And it is also clear from the above that the factual issues engaged in this application have given rise to strong dissensus within the Council . <p> KESSLER PERUMALSAMY <p> Deposed on 25 June 2025 <p> Footnotes : <p> 1 African Transformation Movement v Speaker of the National Assembly 2023 3 All SA 58 ( WCC ) paras 76- 77 . ( I was counsel in the matter . ) See also a majority of the Constitutional Court in African Congress for Transformation v Electoral Commission of South Africa and 2 Other Cases 2024 ( 8 ) BCLR 987 ( CC ) paras 77 - 78 . Both cases concern political parties cited as respondents who supported the relief of the applicant . <p> 3 I have raised with the Council my view that the confidentiality regime of the Council is unlawful . I annex my email dated 4 May 2025 to the Registrar setting out these concerns as KP3 . It is not clear who determines what items are marked confidential ; nor are there any guidelines that determine when an item is regarded as confidential . The decision on confidentiality is binding on the Council and there is no possibility of moving a ' confidential item ' to the ordinary agenda . The Council has resolved to seek legal advice on the lawfulness of its confidentiality regime . <p> " Parenthetically , it is necessary to make three observations : First , the composition of the JSC did not remain constant when the matter was discussed . Despite several changes in its composition as the matter progressed , the JSC simply picked-up its deliberations whence previously left off . Second , the JSC chose to oppose both the application in the high court andthe appeal before this Court . This , despite the evident difficulty that the matter had occasionedit : having split eight to six , with one abstention . Moreover there had been serious dissensuswithin its own ranks . It is thus somewhat surprising that it resolved to defend the majoritydecision , instead of simply abiding the decision of the courts . Third , and , this links to the second , having resolved to oppose the application , its Secretary , Mr Chiloane , deposed to the answering affidavit that came to be filed in opposition to the application . Although he was not a member of the JSC and could not have participated in any of the deliberations or decision-making , he asserted that ' the facts ... are within my personal knowledge and are , to the best of my knowledge and belief , both true and correct " ' ( emphasis underlined ) . <p> 5 Application of the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide ( the Gambia v Myanmar ) , Provisional Measures , Order of 23 January 2020 /CJ Reports 2020 p 3 para 56 : <p> " In view of the function of provisional measures , which is to protect the respective rights of either party pending its final decision , the Court does not consider that the exceptional gravity of the allegations is a decisive factor warranting , as argued by Myanmar , the determination , at the present stage of the proceedings , of the existence of a genocidal intent . In the Court 's view , all the facts and circumstances mentioned above ( see paragraphs 53-55 ) are sufficient to conclude that the rights claimed by The Gambia and for which it is seeking protection - namely the right of the Rohingya group in Myanmar and of its members to be protected from acts of genocide and related prohibited acts mentioned in Article Ill , and the right of The Gambia to ? seek compliance by Myanmar with its obligations not to commit , and to prevent and punish genocide in accordance with the Convention - are plausible . " ( emphasis underlined ) ?
