<p> Contact us at email protected to learn about upgrade options , unlocking the ability to gift this article . <p> Argument <h> Why Democrats Should Proceed to the Center With Caution <p> **45;62;TOOLONG ... E. Zelizer <p> By Julian E. Zelizer , a professor of history and public affairs at Princeton University . <p> Al From in a tux with a green cumberbund laughs with Hillary Clinton , her mouth wide and eyes closed , and wearing a sequined top . Others in formal clothing are seated at tables around them . <p> Hillary Clinton ( right ) with DLC founder Al From ( left ) at the council 's dinner in Washington on Dec. 8 , 1992 . The dinner was held after that year 's presidential election , in which Bill Clinton won . Chris Wilkins/AFP via Getty Images <p> Democrats are in a state of shock . Former U.S. President Donald Trump 's decisive defeat of Vice President Kamala Harris in the Electoral College and the popular vote has been disillusioning . The fact that Trump has grown his coalition feels like a rebuke of what Democrats have stood for since the 1960s . <p> In the months ahead , Democrats will engage in a grueling process of soul-searching and finger-pointing . The party needs to reimagine its strategy if it hopes to regain control of the White House and cut into the significant gains that the GOP made throughout the electoral map . <p> There will be strong pressure for Democrats to veer more sharply toward the center on several key issues , including taxes , regulation , energy , and immigration . One of the historical examples that will be showcased as a model for moving to the middle will be the Democratic Leadership Council ( DLC ) , a small group of insiders who came together in 1985 to rebuild their party following the wreckage of President Ronald Reagan 's landslide victory against former Vice President Walter Mondale . While the DLC provides reason to believe that centrism can help pave a roadway back to the White House , which it did in 1992 and 1996 , it also offers a warning of the potential long-term costs that centrism can pose to the health of a party . <h> Why Ukraine Is Ready to Gamble on Trump <p> Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky and former U.S. President Donald Trump arrive for a meeting at Trump Tower in New York City on Sept. 27 . <p> Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky and former U.S. President Donald Trump arrive for a meeting at Trump Tower in New York City on Sept. 27 . Alex Kent/Getty Images <p> U.S. President-elect Donald Trump 's desire to end Russia 's war against Ukraine is sincere . But it is understandable that Ukraine and its supporters may have concerns about how , exactly , the " deal " promised by Trump during his campaign will look . If it does not include ways to guarantee Ukraine 's ability to defend itself , the fighting may only stop temporarily ; history shows that Russia will return in a few years to finish what it started . The war would not truly end -- it would merely be frozen . <p> But these same supporters of Ukraine must also be honest and recognize that a Harris administration would have posed its own challenges , albeit for different reasons . Vice President Kamala Harris would likely have continued President Joe Biden 's tepid policy of doing just enough to help Ukraine to survive but never enough to succeed . <h> Mexico Shows Anti-Incumbency Is n't Inevitable <p> This week 's Latin America Brief looks at how U.S. President-elect Donald Trump 's election win has reverberated across the region -- and examines what Democrats could learn from their Latin American counterparts . <p> Some Latin American observers argued this week that the Democrats should have taken a strategic cue from leftists in Mexico . President Claudia Sheinbaum 's Morena party was a rare incumbent this year that not only retained the presidency but also grew its congressional majority . <p> Over the last several years , Morena officials raised Mexico 's minimum wage dramatically and exhaustively communicated their intent to carry out economic programs to support the poor . Voters cited those policies during Mexico 's June election , and they appeared to overpower concerns about other problems in the country , such as security . <p> " The Democrats did n't come out to vote because there is not a populist and transformative political project " within the party , Mexican writer and communications consultant Alberto Lujambio posted on X. <h> Elon Musk Joined Trump 's Call With Zelensky <p> President-elect Donald Trump 's post-election call with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on Wednesday included tech billionaire and staunch Trump ally Elon Musk , according to multiplereports . Zelensky described the call as " excellent " in a post on X ( the platform that Musk owns ) shortly after it took place , but he did not reference Musk 's involvement . <p> Musk has been a key player both in Ukraine 's war against Russia and in the Trump campaign . The Starlink satellites operated by Musk 's company SpaceX have provided internet connectivity to Ukraine 's war effort . Yet Musk has also clashed with Zelensky over the former 's controversial peace proposal , which would see Russia retain control over Crimea , which it illegally annexed in 2014 ; Ukraine drop its bid to join NATO ; and other measures that Zelensky opposes . <p> Musk 's donation of more $100 million to Trump 's election campaign and appearances with him at rallies appear to have gained him Trump 's ear and a seat at the table during the presidential transition period . ( Trump has previously hinted at giving Musk a formal role in his administration . ) The billionaire Tesla and SpaceX CEO reportedly also joined Trump 's call with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan this week . <p> A Trump campaign spokesperson did not immediately respond to a request for comment from Foreign Policy on Musk 's role in those calls and what was discussed . <h> Netanyahu Appoints New Ambassador to the U.S. <p> **37;109;TOOLONG Mackinnon <p> By Amy Mackinnon , a national security and intelligence reporter at Foreign Policy . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu appointed Yechiel Leiter to serve as the country 's next ambassador to Washington , Netanyahu 's office announced on Friday . Leiter previously served as his chief of staff when Netanyahu was finance minister . <p> Leiter 's appointment just days after Donald Trump won the U.S. presidential election can be seen as a bellwether of where the Israeli leader may seek to take his country 's relationship with the United States over the next four years . <p> Leiter , who was born in the United States , is a strong supporter of the settlement movement in the Israeli-occupied West Bank and lives in the Eli settlement , north of Ramallah . This has prompted speculation that Netanyahu may seek a green light from the United States to formally annex the Palestinian territory during Trump 's second term . Leiter 's son was killed last year fighting in the war against Hamas in Gaza . <p> Netanyahu notched a number of important diplomatic wins from the first Trump administration , including U.S. recognition of Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights and the transfer of the U.S. Embassy to Jerusalem . <p> " Yechiel Leiter is a highly capable diplomat , an eloquent speaker , and has a deep understanding of American culture and politics , " Netanyahu said in a statement on Friday . Leiter will take office on Jan. 20 , when Trump is inaugurated . <h> What the Founding Fathers Would Say About Trump 's Win <p> A painting shows the founding fathers of the United States gathered around papers on a table in an ornate room . <p> A painting depicts the Founding Fathers as they sign the Declaration of Independence on July 4 , 1776 . Art Images via Getty Images <p> Donald Trump 's decisive victory in the U.S. presidential election this week has left many analysts reaching for precedents in the past . The last time an American won a non-consecutive second term as president was when Grover Cleveland defeated the incumbent Republican Benjamin Harrison . If Trump goes on to win the popular vote , it would be the first time a Republican leader has done so since 2004 , when George W. Bush defeated John Kerry . And while it 's hard to remember a time when the U.S. electorate was as divided and polarized as it is , the United States has certainly been through moments of extreme division and instability . <p> How do we place this week 's results in historical terms ? To find out if the past has any lessons for the future , I spoke with two great American historians : Julian E. Zelizer , a professor of history at Princeton University and the author or editor of 26 books including Fault Lines : A History of the United States Since 1974 ; and Joanne Freeman , a professor of history at Yale University , whose most recent book is The Field of Blood : Congressional Violence in Antebellum America . <p> What follows here is a condensed and edited transcript of our discussion ; the full , live version is available on the video box atop this page , or on the FP Live podcast . <p> Ravi Agrawal : One big question about Trump 's first term was whether it was a blip in the trajectory of America 's politics . And now the question has to be asked if Biden 's term was the blip . <p> Julian Zelizer : It might have been . I did n't think of Trump 's first term as a blip . I think it came out of changes that had happened both in Republican politics and in American politics more broadly . I think this election is shaping up to be a little bit like 1984 , where a certain vision of politics was legitimated . President-elect Trump has been very transparent about what he believes in , how he 'll govern . And he just won . He might have won the popular vote as well . So , I think if we look back , Biden might have been an anomaly in the ways that the 2020 election took place . Or , as Ezra Klein recently argued , it might have been the last gasp of the Obama coalition . <p> RA : Joanne , how do you imagine the Founding Fathers would interpret this week 's news ? <p> Joanne Freeman : Well , they might say " I told you so . " If you read the personal letters , anything that they were writing in the founding era , it 's hard to say that the founders agreed on a lot , but they did agree that the greatest threat to any republic , but particularly a democratic republic , was a demagogue . The world was monarchies at the time and a democratic republic grounded on public opinion was experimental . What made these largely elitist founders nervous was that " the public " would be easily persuaded , warped , led astray by someone who could get their emotions riled up . That 's the vulnerability of anything democratic , that the people and their emotions can lead them astray . And historically speaking -- going back to ancient Greece , ancient Rome -- when they looked at republics , what they saw were demagogues saying anything that they possibly could to get the public 's emotions flowing , to woo the public , and then once they got power , doing whatever they wanted and becoming tyrants . They talked about that throughout the entire founding period when trying to evaluate politics in the first decade of the republic . That was what was on their mind . So , in a way , this is an easy question to answer because that would be the absolute first thing that they would say -- " We told you . We told you that demagogue tendencies are the vulnerability , and now here you are . " <h> Where Were Young Voters in Pennsylvania ? <p> FP contributor Bronwen Everill is a historian who teaches writing to first-year students at Princeton University and who lives -- and votes -- in Philadelphia . I asked her to take the temperature of young people on campus and in her electorally significant hometown on Election Day and beyond . Here 's what she had to say : <p> " Despite news reports of high anticipated youth voter turnout , with lines stretching for hours at universities in the swing state of Pennsylvania , the number of young registered voters in Pennsylvania actually declined by 6 percent between 2020 and 2024 . Tufts University estimates that , overall , only 42 percent of young voters aged 18-29 went to the polls in 2024 -- the lowest youth vote since 2000 . <p> Students from several different universities in the state or nearby that I spoke to over the past weeks expressed this disinterest in the election . Several voted because it was their ' civic duty ' and certainly among those who turned out and waited in line , or sent in their first mail-in ballot , there were high levels of enthusiasm . But for others , the high temperature of political debate amongst friends or family and a desire to ' just stay out of it ' seemed to be disincentives to voting . <p> Since 1971 , when the voting age was lowered to 18 , youth turnout has only exceeded 50 percent three times : in 1992 , in 2008 , and in 2020 . The high U.S. turnout in 2020 reflected broader global trends in youth activism . In Nigeria , for instance , after the EndSARS protests in the summer of 2020 , 76 percent of newly registered voters were young people . But by the 2023 Nigerian election , total turnout was low , reflecting distaste for the increasingly heated rhetoric , concerns about violence , as well as low trust in both the system and candidates . <p> One consistent trend across elections and in different countries is that the youth vote 's decline seems particularly associated with a perception of trust in the political process to deliver on broad ideological promises . But before strategists start pointing fingers at the youth , it is worth noting the long history of the moral panic that the ' democratic future of the nation is being eroded among the young ' -- as one Pennsylvania newspaper reported in 1992 , just before the highest turnout in 20 years . " <h> Will Trump Tank Kenya 's Special Relationship With the U.S. ? <p> **45;148;TOOLONG ... Gbadamosi <p> By Nosmot Gbadamosi , a multimedia journalist and the writer of Foreign Policy 's weekly Africa Brief . <p> Kenyan President William Ruto took longer than many African leaders to congratulate Donald Trump for his victory in the U.S. presidential election . Ruto had become a close ally of President Joe Biden 's administration , much to the chagrin of Kenyans , who held monthslong protests against Ruto 's economic policies and alleged corruption in his government . During that time , Biden designated Kenya a major non-NATO ally and secured its involvement in the Haiti peacekeeping mission . <p> In his congratulatory message to Trump on Wednesday , Ruto affirmed Kenya 's commitment to its long-standing partnership with Washington on " trade , investment , technology and innovation , peace and security , and sustainable development . " <p> Yet Ruto 's critics have called attention to the delayed messaging . " Trump win is bad news to the ruto administration . Trump abhors foreign aid as a means of developing africa . He will not meet ruto to dish out free sanitary towels and mosquito nets , " Kenyan MP Caleb Amisi wrote in a post on X. " Kenya will now be forced to work hard and stop over reliance on Western economic bloc ! " <p> A trade and investment partnership with Kenya was slated to be finalized by the Biden administration next month , including investments in agriculture , climate resilience , and improving governance . The deal replaced formal trade negotiations undertaken by the first Trump administration in 2020 that emphasized U.S. access to Kenya 's wheat market and cooperation with small businesses . <p> It 's unclear whether Trump will revert to his more transactional trade proposal . Kenyan Treasury Cabinet Secretary John Mbadi on Friday sought to dampen fears . " American policy generally does n't change much whether the White House is held by a Republican or a Democrat , " Mbadi said . " Our current engagement is more at the multilateral level . The U.S. supports the World Bank , from which we receive assistance . " <p> Movie fans know that sequels are rarely any good , and they often take a darker turn than the original . The first installment of Trump as President was disappointing to many and fatal for some , which explains why he lost the 2020 election . The remake is going be worse -- here are the top 10 implications of the 2024 U.S. presidential election . <p> U.S. politics is a mystery . If it was n't clear already , it is now crushingly obvious that nobody understands how U.S. electoral politics works and that much of the conventional wisdom on the subject is dead wrong . Polls are n't reliable , truisms about the importance of a " ground game " do n't apply , and all the smart people who thought they knew what would happen were n't just wrong but off by a lot . As in 2016 , I suspect former U.S. President Donald Trump and his team were as surprised as the rest of us . My crude take is that U.S. elites are still underestimating how much white-hot anger and fear is out there in the body politic , much of it directed at them . There will be reams of post-hoc analysis explaining what went wrong for the Democrats and why the experts missed it yet again , but these same " experts " have had eight years to figure this out and are still at sea . <p> Trump will be unpredictable . Well , duh . Trump sees unpredictability as an asset that keeps others off balance , and his well-deserved reputation for erratic behavior makes it harder to criticize him for being inconsistent . For this reason , nobody -- including his supporters -- should be confident that they know exactly what he 'll do . It 's a safe bet that he wo n't do anything that is n't in his personal political and financial interest , but how that translates into policy is impossible to fathom . He said a lot of crazy things during his campaign , but how much of it was bluster and bluff and how much was sincere remains to be seen . <h> Trump 's Plans for the Pentagon <p> By Amy Mackinnon , a national security and intelligence reporter at Foreign Policy , and Rishi Iyengar , a reporter at Foreign Policy . <p> The United States has chosen former President Donald Trump as commander in chief once more . Here 's what we know about Trump 's plans for the Pentagon during his second term in office . <p> Domestic deployment ? Trump has repeatedly spoken about using the U.S. military on domestic soil for a host of law enforcement purposes , including securing the southern border with Mexico , policing civil unrest , cracking down on crime in cities such as Chicago , and even pursuing his political opponents . <p> A long-standing law known as the Posse Comitatus Act bars federal troops from participating in almost all civilian law enforcement roles , but the 1807 Insurrection Act offers some exceptions if needed to quash a rebellion . <p> An American Iron Dome . On the campaign trail , Trump spoke repeatedly about building an Iron Dome missile defense shield -- which was also included in the Republican Party platform this year . <p> But critics of Trump 's proposal have noted that building such a system to defend the entire United States would cost a fortune , and it would be of little use intercepting medium- and long-range missiles fired by Russia or North Korea . <p> Schedule F. Trump had vowed on the campaign trail to revive efforts to strip job protections from thousands of federal civil servants in policymaking roles , which will also expand to the Pentagon . Trump 's promise to pursue " rogue bureaucrats " has raised fears that the move could be used to politicize the federal workforce . <p> Goodbye DEI . During a campaign event in October , Trump said he would create a task force to monitor " woke generals " and eliminate diversity , equity , and inclusion training . He is also likely to reinstate a ban on transgender people serving in the armed forces and has promised to restore Confederate names to U.S. military bases . <h> Who Might Serve in Trump 's Second Administration ? <p> By Amy Mackinnon , a national security and intelligence reporter at Foreign Policy . <p> Washington is deep in the throes of its favorite parlor game -- trading gossip on who is set to serve in the second Trump administration . <p> Here 's a look at who is confirmed , rumored , and vying for a top job -- and who has turned them down . A word of caution : Two days after the election , almost everything is informed speculation at this point . <p> Brian Hook , who served as the director of policy planning and special envoy for Iran in the first Trump administration , is expected to lead the transition team at the State Department , CNN reports . <p> Robert Wilkie , the former Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs , is running point on the Pentagon 's transition team , Politico reports . <p> Peter Deutsch , a former Democratic U.S. representative from Florida has expressed interest in becoming the next U.S. ambassador to Israel , Jewish Insider reports . <p> Sen. Tom Cotton has said he would not accept an offer of a cabinet position , despite being a top contender , Axios scoops . <p> Politico reports that Sens . Marco Rubio and Bill Hagerty and former acting National Intelligence Director Ric Grenell have been mentioned as potential contenders for secretary of state . <p> Other names that we 're hearing as likely contenders for senior positions include the following : Florida Rep. Mike Waltz , former Secretary of State Mike Pompeo , former chief of staff on the National Security Council Keith Kellogg , former chief of staff to the acting Defense Secretary Kash Patel , former Director of National Intelligence John Ratcliffe , former National Security Advisor Robert O'Brien , and former Deputy Assistant Defense Secretary Elbridge Colby . <p> Contact us at email protected to learn about upgrade options , unlocking the ability to gift this article . <p> Q&amp;A <h> How Economies Around the World Will Respond to Trump 2.0 <p> By Cameron Abadi , a deputy editor at Foreign Policy , and Adam Tooze , a columnist at Foreign Policy and director of the European Institute at Columbia University . Sign up for Adam 's Chartbook newsletter here . <p> Trader Walter Lundon shows off his shirt featuring U.S. President-elect Donald Trump in New York City on Nov. 6 . Timothy A. Clary/AFP via Getty Images <p> U.S. voters have given President-elect Donald Trump a mandate to govern the United States , but his policies are certain to influence the entire world . It 's possible to speculate on the potential effects based on Trump 's first term as president . But his agenda is now more extreme , and his power less restrained . <p> Is Europe any more prepared than it was eight years ago to contend with a Trump presidency ? What does another Trump administration mean for global climate policy ? And what is China 's view on the U.S. election ? <p> Those are just a few of the questions that came up in my recent conversation with FP economics columnist Adam Tooze on the podcast we co-host , Ones and Tooze . What follows is an excerpt , edited for length and clarity . For the full conversation , look for Ones and Tooze wherever you get your podcasts . And check out Adam 's Substack newsletter . <h> Putin Congratulates Trump , Signals Openness to Talk <p> **37;195;TOOLONG Mackinnon <p> By Amy Mackinnon , a national security and intelligence reporter at Foreign Policy . <p> Russian President Vladimir Putin congratulated Donald Trump on his victory in the U.S. presidential election during remarks at the Valdai discussion forum in Sochi , Russia , on Thursday , his first public comments since Trump 's reelection . <p> The Russian leader said Trump 's " desire to rebuild relations with Russia " and end the war in Ukraine " deserves attention . " Putin indicated a willingness to speak with Trump , but he included a word of caution , saying that he did not necessarily know what would happen next . <p> Putin also praised Trump 's handling of his attempted assassination in July , describing him as a " real man , " adding that Trump had been " hounded by all sides " during the election campaign . <h> Biden Promises Peaceful Transfer of Power <p> **42;234;TOOLONG Lu <p> By Christina Lu , an energy and environment reporter at Foreign Policy . <p> U.S. President Joe Biden on Thursday addressed Americans for the first time since Vice President Kamala Harris 's presidential election loss , delivering a speech in the White House Rose Garden that called for unity and underscored the integrity of the U.S. electoral system . <p> " Campaigns are contests of competing visions . The country chooses one or the other . We accept the choice the country made , " he said . " I 've said many times -- you ca n't love your country only when you win . You ca n't love your neighbor only when you agree . " <p> Biden confirmed that he spoke with President-elect Donald Trump on Wednesday to congratulate him on his victory . " I assured him that I will direct my entire administration to work with his team to ensure a peaceful and orderly transition , " Biden said . Trump has refused to acknowledge losing the 2020 presidential election . <p> " I also hope we can lay to rest the question about the integrity of the American electoral system . It is honest , it is fair , and it is transparent . And it can be trusted , win or lose , " Biden said . <p> Biden praised Harris , saying she has " a backbone like a ramrod " and that she " gave her whole heart and effort " on a campaign that she should be proud of . Biden also nodded to his own presidential legacy , declaring that his administration was " leaving behind the strongest economy in the world " and referencing legislation with an impact that " will be felt over the next 10 years . " <p> He also urged Harris 's supporters to keep fighting . " We lost this battle . The America of your dreams is calling for you to get back up , " he said . " The American experiment endures . We 're going to be okay , but we need to stay engaged . " <h> Will Trump Pressure Ukraine to Cut a Deal ? <p> **41;278;TOOLONG Ashford <p> By Emma Ashford , a columnist at Foreign Policy and a senior fellow with the Reimagining U.S. Grand Strategy program at the Stimson Center . <p> The clearest change that U.S. President-elect Donald Trump is likely to make on foreign policy is in Ukraine . Republican support for spending more on sending weapons to Kyiv has been declining , and Trump will probably follow through on his promise to seek a peace deal . <p> The problem is that peace will likely come at terms that do not favor Kyiv . Now , Ukraine 's military losses have begun to mount , and the practical barriers to continued support to Ukraine -- declining Western stockpiles , Ukraine 's significant manpower and corruption problems -- have increased . Trump has a popular mandate to seek a settlement , even though Europeans might object . <p> What , then , would a settlement in Ukraine look like ? The territorial question will be settled by facts on the ground : Russia 's recent gains suggest that this will be worse for Ukraine than it would have been a year ago . The Kursk incursion could give the Ukrainians some leverage , but only if they can succeed in holding it . <p> Then there are the bigger strategic questions . Kyiv insists that any peace deal must include a security guarantee , ideally via NATO ; Russia is n't likely to tolerate this . Despite what Ukrainian leaders say publicly , a minimum acceptable deal for Kyiv might look more like Ukrainian sovereignty , the ability to arm itself with Western help , and economic integration into Europe . <p> Trump is well placed to put pressure on Kyiv , but he and his advisors should be under no illusions that they can force Kyiv to the negotiating table . <p> It 's possible that whatever deal is negotiated -- particularly if it is negotiated over the heads of Ukrainians -- would be politically unacceptable to the Zelensky government . Kyiv might opt to keep fighting and seek European support instead . <p> For the Trump administration , the choice would be whether to continue to support Ukraine or to step back and drop the problem on Washington 's European allies . <h> The Countdown to Trump 's Second Term Begins <p> It took roughly six hours for The Associated Press to call the U.S. presidential election after the final polls closed on Tuesday , but Americans will wait 76 days before President-elect Donald Trump is sworn in . Though President Joe Biden 's lame-duck period may seem long , this waiting game is not unique to the United States . <h> Comparison of Lame Duck Periods <p> Indonesia held its election in February , but President Prabowo Subianto did n't assume office until Oct. 20 , 214 days later . Similarly , Mexico elected its first female president , Claudia Sheinbaum , on June 3 -- but she assumed office 120 days later , on Oct. 1 . And though Venezuelan President Nicol ? s Maduro declared himself the winner of the contested election on July 29 , he will officially be sworn in on Jan. 10 , 2025 . <p> However , some elections this year saw quicker turnarounds . Voters in India , Bangladesh , and South Africa reelected their leaders , all of whom assumed office within 20 days . The shortest lame-duck period was in the United Kingdom , where Keir Starmer was appointed prime minister as soon as results were announced on July 5 . ( Sri Lanka is a notable runner-up : President Anura Kumara Dissanayake was sworn in a day after election results were announced on Sept. 22 . ) <h> The Meaning of an Election Night U.S. Missile Test <p> By Matthew Kroenig , a columnist at Foreign Policy and vice president and senior director of the Atlantic Council 's Scowcroft Center for Strategy and Security . <p> With a cautious lame-duck president in office , set to be replaced by an unpredictable successor who is more comfortable brandishing American power , will U.S. adversaries try to test Washington in the coming weeks ? <p> Perhaps Iran will try to dash to a bomb before a new Trump administration puts a credible military option on the table and fully backs Israel 's right to defend itself . China might see this as a closing window of opportunity to coerce Taiwan . Russian President Vladimir Putin could try to escalate the war in Ukraine . Or maybe North Korea -- which has already sent troops to assist Russia -- will engage in provocations against the South . <p> In an attempt to show adversaries that now is not the right time to test the United States , the U.S. Department of Defense was hard at work on election night . While the rest of us were attending watch parties , calculating the returns , or doomscrolling , a joint team of service members from the Air Force Global Strike Command and Navy launched an unarmed Minuteman III intercontinental ballistic missile equipped with multiple targetable reentry vehicles from Vandenberg Space Force Base , California , at 11:01 p.m . Pacific time on Nov. 5 . <p> The test was scheduled years in advance , but it was intended to send a message . Gen. Thomas Bussiere , the commander of the Air Force Global Strike Command , said : " These tests are demonstrative of what Striker Airmen bring to the fight if called by the president . " He went on to state that the United States ' nuclear weapons are " the strategic backstop of our nation 's defense and defense of allies and partners . " <p> In other words , the United States retains the capability to impose staggering costs on any potential aggressor . <p> Americans may have been too busy to notice , but let us hope the signal registered in Beijing , Moscow , Tehran , and Pyongyang . <h> Xi Sends Trump Congratulatory Message <p> On Thursday , Chinese President Xi Jinping sent President-elect Donald Trump a message congratulating him on his election victory . <p> According to the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs readout , Xi told Trump that " history tells us that both countries stand to gain from cooperation and lose from confrontation . " The Chinese leader added that a stable relationship also would meet " the expectations of the international community . " <p> CNN reported that Xi called Trump on Wednesday , citing two anonymous sources , but Foreign Policy was unable to confirm that a call took place . When asked to comment on the CNN report , Chinese Embassy spokesperson Liu Pengyu only said Xi sent Trump a congratulatory message . <p> Trump 's presidency ended with a rocky year in U.S.-China relations in which his administration blamed China for unleashing COVID-19 on the world and stepped up ties with Taiwan . To read more about Trump 's stance on China going into his new term , see Foreign Policy 's guide to his agenda here . <p> Update , Nov. 7 , 2024 : This post has been updated to include comment from the Chinese Embassy . <p> Contact us at email protected to learn about upgrade options , unlocking the ability to gift this article . <p> It 's Debatable <h> What Trump 's Win Will Mean for NATO , Ukraine , Israel , and Iran <p> By Emma Ashford , a columnist at Foreign Policy and a senior fellow with the Reimagining U.S. Grand Strategy program at the Stimson Center , and Matthew Kroenig , a columnist at Foreign Policy and vice president and senior director of the Atlantic Council 's Scowcroft Center for Strategy and Security . <p> Emma Ashford : Morning , Matt . We finally have an answer to the question the world has been asking for months . The next president will be Donald Trump -- and he seems to have won , if not by a landslide , then by a healthy margin in almost every key swing state . It 's a clear mandate from the voters for another four-year Trump term . <p> The results of Trump 's foreign policy were objectively better than Biden 's ( who likes major wars in Europe and the Middle East with no end in sight ? ) , and I am optimistic about a Trump 2.0 . <p> On the results , it proves the adage that Washington , D.C. , is 12 square miles surrounded by reality . Progressive elites in Washington and other capitals are horrified by this outcome , but the American people clearly were not buying what Kamala Harris was selling . They prefer Trump by a decisive margin . <p> EA : Harris was a weak candidate , though Democrats did n't have a lot of choice given the late-stage switch from President Joe Biden . But it 's definitely interesting that foreign policy seems to have played a role . Remember we asked that question last time : Do voters care about foreign policy ? The answer is that they usually do n't . <p> But this time , I 'm pretty confident that at least some of Harris 's trouble with younger voters , and Arab Americans in particular , come from her decision to double down on Biden 's unpopular foreign policies and her strange embrace of the neoconservative architects of the Iraq War . She lost by about 80,000 votes in Michigan , more than 100,000 voted third party , and some clearly stayed home -- that 's easily enough to lose it . <p> MK : I think you are right that it contributed to the outcome . Reports from Dearborn , Michigan , suggest a protest vote against Biden . <h> Trump Wants It Both Ways on Iran <p> By Steven A. Cook , a columnist at Foreign Policy and the Eni Enrico Mattei senior fellow for Middle East and Africa studies at the Council on Foreign Relations . <p> President-elect Donald Trump 's Iran policy during his first term was never as bellicose as his rhetoric . His " maximum pressure " campaign was mostly similar to former President Barack Obama 's application of sanctions that brought the Iranians to the negotiating table and resulted in the 2015 JCPOA nuclear deal . <p> Just because Trump called that agreement the " worst deal ever " did not mean that he wanted to pursue regime change in Tehran , however . Rather , he wanted to negotiate a better deal with the Iranians , one that allowed him say his nuclear deal was superior to Obama 's nuclear deal . Trump was otherwise quite dovish on Iran . At moments when it would have been legitimate for Trump to use military force -- after the IRGC seized oil tankers , mined the Persian Gulf , shot down an American drone operating in international airspace , and bombed Saudi oil facilities -- the president chose ( with bipartisan support ) not to respond . <p> There are still comprehensive sanctions on Iran , but the Biden administration has tended to look the other way at Iran 's oil sales . That had everything to do with the political calculations of a president who was stung early on in his administration by high energy prices . The collective pain of Americans at the gas pump contributed to Biden 's persistently low approval rating . <p> It remains an open question if Trump would risk the same through tougher sanctions enforcement . It depends on how he calculates his parochial interests : Does he want to be the guy who got " the better deal " -- consistent with his self-image as master dealmaker -- or does he want to ensure that Americans enjoy cheap oil and gas ? Does he think he can do both ? Only President-elect Trump could know the answers to those questions -- and he may not either . <h> Trump Wants to End Gaza War on Israel 's Terms <p> By Steven A. Cook , a columnist at Foreign Policy and the Eni Enrico Mattei senior fellow for Middle East and Africa studies at the Council on Foreign Relations . <p> President-elect Donald Trump 's broad mandate portends many changes to U.S. policy , but when it comes to the Middle East , things are likely to remain mostly the same . Support for Israel will continue , Iran will be a major pre-occupation , and Team Trump will likely look for ways to establish normal diplomatic relations between Saudis and Israelis . Sounds familiar , no ? <p> Like the Biden administration , which worked for a cease-fire in Gaza that never was , Trump wants the war there to end sooner rather than later . In a phone call ahead of the election , the president-elect told Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to wrap up major military operations in Gaza before Inauguration Day . That is consistent with the Biden team 's efforts , though it is inconsistent with Israel 's timeline . <p> Unlike Biden , however , Trump and the people around him are unlikely to apply pressure on the Israelis to get there . They are more likely to give Israel a lot of leeway , including releasing Biden 's hold on the transfer of certain weapons to finish the job as soon as possible . Biden , to be sure , has overseen an unprecedented 14-month effort to re-supply the Israel Defense Forces . But Trump is less likely to ask hard questions about Israel 's operations , the provision of humanitarian aid , and the status of Gaza after the war ends . <p> For Gazans , it may seem that the quicker the war ends the better . But if the Trump administration allows the Israeli government to pursue the end of the conflict in ways it sees fit , it is likely that more Palestinians will be killed along the way . Then , of course , there are Netanyahu 's partners who want to resettle the Gaza Strip , the logical conclusion of which is the further dispossession of a population that was already predominantly refugees and their descendants . <p> Contact us at email protected to learn about upgrade options , unlocking the ability to gift this article . <p> Analysis <h> Ukraine Now Faces a Nuclear Decision <p> By Casey Michel , head of the Human Rights Foundation 's Combating Kleptocracy Program and author of American Kleptocracy : How the U.S. Created the World 's Greatest Money Laundering Scheme in History . <p> Former U.S. President Donald Trump and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky shake hands in New York City on Sept. 27 . <p> Former U.S. President Donald Trump and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky shake hands in New York City on Sept. 27 . Alex Kent/Getty Images <p> With Donald Trump 's election victory this week , it 's clear that the president-elect will not be nearly as supportive of Ukraine 's fight against Russia as the current administration -- and may well abandon Ukraine entirely . Such a reality is already resounding in Ukraine , with plenty of hand-wringing in Kyiv about how Trump will pull the United States back from its fight . As a result , Ukrainians will be forced in the coming weeks and months to search for solutions beyond Washington 's support -- and consider a potentially nuclear solution that had been only hinted at previously . <p> Last month , with little fanfare , Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky made the stakes of the ongoing war in Ukraine as clear as possible . With Russian troops bearing down on Ukraine 's east , and with Western support continuing to flag , Zelensky clarified the potential outcomes of the war . " Either Ukraine will have nuclear weapons and that will be our protection or we should have some sort of alliance , " he said . " Apart from NATO , today we do not know any effective alliances . " <h> German Government Collapses Amid Uncertainties Over U.S. Election <p> Just hours after Donald Trump 's presidential election victory in the United States , Germany 's three-party governing coalition collapsed , sending the country into a political tailspin . <p> Chancellor Olaf Scholz fired Finance Minister Christian Lindner , the latest development in an escalating spat between the two men over Germany 's public spending . Lindner -- who heads the neoliberal Free Democratic Party -- wanted a pared-down 2025 budget as a recession looms . His stances angered Scholz 's Social Democrats and the Greens , who favored increased spending on social programs , defense , and climate goals . <p> Over the past week , Lindner had suggested that the coalition -- known as the traffic light -- may not be up to the task of governing Germany into the future . Its three member parties have publicly clashed on numerous policy priorities since taking office in 2021 , including an infamous 2023 heating law . Although Scholz initially rejected Lindner 's proposals for snap elections , the presidential vote in the United States apparently pushed the chancellor to think again . <p> In a speech on Wednesday night , Scholz announced that he was dismissing Lindner , lambasting the ex-finance minister for prioritizing the " short-term survival of his party " over making " compromises in the interest of all citizens . " Scholz repeatedly mentioned the U.S. election , saying that the uncertainties provoked by Trump 's win -- especially the president-elect 's stance on the Russia-Ukraine war -- made clear to him that Germany must spend more to take responsibility for its own economic modernization and defense . <p> " We need a government that is ready to negotiate ... to make the necessary decisions for our country , " Scholz said . " Especially today , one day after such an important event like the election in the United States , Lindner 's egoism is totally incomprehensible . " <p> Scholz is expected to face a no-confidence vote on Jan. 15 , 2025 , which he is likely to lose . Snap elections would follow in March . <p> Vice President Kamala Harris was supposed to deliver an election night speech at her alma mater , Howard University ; instead , she returned Wednesday to deliver her concession speech after having lost the race to President-elect Donald Trump . <p> Music bumped in the campus quad as thousands of students and supporters filtered into the election party-turned-wake . The playlist , which included such songs as Curtis Mayfield 's " Move On Up " and Beyonc ? ' s " Run the World ( Girls ) , " seemed more fitting for the previous night . <p> In her speech , Harris reiterated what she said to Trump in a phone call on Wednesday conceding the election : that the peaceful transfer of power is the foundation of U.S. democracy . At the same time , she rallied her supporters to build toward a future era of renewed Democratic leadership . <p> " On the campaign , I would often say , ' When we fight , we win , ' " Harris said . " But here 's the thing : Sometimes the fight takes a while . That does n't mean we wo n't win . " <p> Harris also encouraged the crowd to get organized to keep fighting for the campaign 's promises . <p> " This is not a time to throw up our hands . This is a time to roll up our sleeves , " she said . The audience roared loudest when she spoke about the importance of fighting for the right of women to make choices about their own bodies . <p> For some speech attendees , the consequences of the election result felt immediate and personal . Sarah Dale , a 43-year-old Harris supporter who works on air quality issues , told Foreign Policy : " I 'm feeling pretty horrible . I work in the federal government , so this will have an impact on our macro world as well as me very personally . " Trump has pledged to overhaul the federal workforce . <p> Harris offered parting words of consolation to her supporters . " Only when it is dark enough can you see the stars . I know many people feel like we are entering a dark time , but for the benefit of us all , I hope that is not the case . But here 's the thing , America : If it is , let us fill the sky with the light of a brilliant , brilliant billion of stars , the light of optimism , of faith , of truth , and service . " <h> U.S. Billionaires React to Trump 's Win <p> A bevy of the most prominent billionaires and technology executives in the United States have publicly congratulated President-elect Donald Trump on his election victory . <p> Among the first to do so was Amazon founder and Washington Post owner Jeff Bezos , whose controversial blocking of the newspaper 's endorsement of Vice President Kamala Harris dominatedheadlines in the lead-up to the election . " Big congratulations to our 45th and now 47th President on an extraordinary political comeback and decisive victory , " Bezos wrote in a post on X on Wednesday . " Wishing@realDonaldTrump all success in leading and uniting the America we all love . " <p> Chief among them was Tesla and SpaceX CEO and X owner Elon Musk . The world 's wealthiest man not only donated more than $100 million to Trump 's reelection effort and campaigned with him , but Musk could also be set for a role in Trump 's administration . Other prominent Trump backers in Silicon Valley included Palantir co-founder Joe Lonsdale and venture capitalists Marc Andreessen and Ben Horowitz . <p> On the other side of that equation were Texas billionaire Mark Cuban , the owner of the Dallas Mavericks NBA team who campaigned for Harris , and LinkedIn co-founder Reid Hoffman . In a lengthy post shared on LinkedIn and X , Hoffman expressed hope that Trump " would n't seek to punish political opponents , would n't corruptly play favorites in business or foreign policy , would n't actually enact a crippling , 19th-century tariff regime , " as Trump promised to do on the campaign trail . <p> Cuban 's message was more succinct . " Congrats@realDonaldTrump . You won fair and square , " he wrote on X. " Congrats to@elonmusk as well . " <h> Latin America 's Leftists Navigate Tricky Trump Congratulations <p> Latin America is home to several right-wing politicians who have long embraced U.S. President-elect Donald Trump . Unsurprisingly , figures such as Argentine President Javier Milei and former Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro relished in Trump 's election victory on social media ; in Buenos Aires , presidential staffers wore red ties today to celebrate . <p> But many countries in the region are currently governed by leftists , including regional heavyweights Brazil , Mexico , and Colombia . Presidents of those countries tested cautious public messaging in the wake of the U.S. vote . <p> Mexican President Claudia Sheinbaum said Wednesday that she would wait for more of the official tally in the United States to be complete before recognizing a winner and added that Mexicans should have " not a single reason to worry " about how a Trump administration might affect them . ( They have abundant reasons to worry -- on issues from trade to immigration -- but Sheinbaum 's comments suggest her government is taking the risks of Trump 2.0 seriously . ) <p> Colombian President Gustavo Petro , meanwhile , congratulated Trump in a post that claimed the " north-south dialogue " was still alive . And Brazilian President Luiz In ? cio Lula da Silva 's pro-Kamala Harris sentiments of a few days ago morphed into collegial wishes of " luck and success " to the incoming Trump government . <h> Trump Congratulatory Calls Roll in From World Leaders <p> **42;321;TOOLONG Lu <p> By Christina Lu , an energy and environment reporter at Foreign Policy . <p> U.S. President-elect Donald Trump celebrated his reelection victory on Wednesday with congratulatory calls from several foreign leaders , many of whom he shared warm ties with during his first term in office . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu was one of the first world leaders to call Trump , according to the Israeli leader 's spokesperson . " The conversation was warm and cordial , " Netanyahu 's office said , noting that the two " agreed to work together for Israel 's security " and discussed " the Iranian threat . " Netanyahu was also quick to congratulate President Joe Biden on his victory in 2020 , which enraged Trump , who had claimed that the election was still ongoing . <p> " The first person that congratulated Biden was Bibi Netanyahu , the man that I did more for than any other person I dealt with , " Trump toldAxios in 2021 , using the Israeli leader 's nickname . " Bibi could have stayed quiet . He has made a terrible mistake . " <p> Trump also spoke with Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman , with whom he had cozy ties during his first term . According to a statement from Saudi Arabia 's Foreign Ministry , Mohammed bin Salman expressed " the kingdom 's aspiration to strengthen the historical and strategic relations between the two countries . " <p> In a post on X , Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi shared that he had congratulated his " friend " Trump on a " spectacular victory . " " Looking forward to working closely together once again to further strengthen India-US relations across technology , defense , energy , space , and several other sectors , " he said . <p> French President Emmanuel Macron and Trump also engaged in a " very good discussion " for 25 minutes , Macron 's office said . In their phone call , the two leaders discussed Ukraine , the Middle East , and the European Union . <p> Egyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi , who was the first world leader to congratulate Trump in 2016 , has also spoken with him , according to a statement from his office . <h> Trump 's Unpredictability May Have Its Foreign-Policy Uses <p> **37;365;TOOLONG Mackinnon <p> By Amy Mackinnon , a national security and intelligence reporter at Foreign Policy . <p> Europe is better prepared to work with a Trump White House than it was eight years ago but still needs to do more to boost its defense spending , former NATO Secretary-General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said in an interview with Foreign Policy . <p> " Though the Europeans are better prepared now , we need to do much more , " said Rasmussen , who added that the alliance should raise its spending targets from 2 to 3 percent -- a move that both President-elect Donald Trump and NATO officials have backed . <p> Rasmussen echoed the cautious optimism of Ukrainian officials that Trump 's businesslike approach to world affairs could potentially be of benefit in any talks to end Russia 's war in Ukraine . <p> " His unpredictability combined with his desire to look like a winner could be used to help the Ukrainians build up a leverage that can be used , " Rasmussen said . " From my time as secretary-general of NATO , I know that unpredictability can be very forceful when it comes to deterrence . " <p> The former NATO chief said restrictions on Ukraine 's ability to use Western weapons to strike Russia should have been lifted a long time ago , and he criticized the Biden administration for being too cautious in its approach to the conflict out of fear of provoking Moscow . <p> " I think our hesitation , and the hesitation of the Biden administration , has actually fueled the war . It has given Russian President Vladimir Putin appetite for more , " he said . <h> What to Know About Trump Cabinet Contender Robert Lighthizer <p> As the world wonders who will be calling the shots in a second Trump administration , one name keeps popping up among possible economic advisors : Robert Lighthizer . As the U.S. trade representative during President-elect Donald Trump 's first term , Lighthizer was the architect of the United States ' aggressive use of tariffs and other trade restrictions against friend and foe alike , abandoning decades of U.S. support for free trade . His trade policy revolution was subsequently embraced and expanded by the Biden administration . <p> Lighthizer may now be on the short list for a key economic post come January , with treasury secretary mentioned as one possibility . If he gets the nod , he could apply equally revolutionary ideas to policy areas beyond bilateral trade -- with enormous implications on the financial sector and on economies around the world , as FP columnist Edward Alden describes in his profile of Lighthizer with a view to a second Trump term . <p> But even if a Lighthizer comeback is limited to a trade portfolio , the world could be in store for an economic upheaval . As Bob Davis outlines in his review of Lighthizer 's 2023 book , No Trade Is Free : Changing Course , Taking on China , and Helping America 's Workers , the former trade official favors an economic and technological decoupling from China so comprehensive that it would take the protectionism initiated during Trump 's first term to an entirely new level . <h> Under Trump , Expect Continuity on South Asia <p> By Michael Kugelman , the writer of Foreign Policy 's weekly South Asia Brief and the director of the South Asia Institute at the Wilson Center . <p> This week 's South Asia Brief examines the fallout of former U.S. President Donald Trump 's reelection for the region . Expectations are high for significant changes in U.S. foreign policy , but in South Asia we can expect considerable continuity from Washington . <p> The U.S. Indo-Pacific strategy has become the core driver of U.S. policy in Asia more broadly . This strategy first emerged under Trump as great-power competition intensified . The Biden administration robustly embraced the approach , albeit with some modifications , and has sought to strengthen ties with most South Asian capitals and to counter China 's deepening footprint in the region . <p> Trump prioritizes great-power competition considerations in foreign policy . This suggests the Indo-Pacific strategy ( or the goals that drive it ) will remain intact . However , Trump 's victory will certainly lead to some changes to U.S. bilateral ties in the region . Climate change could take on less importance , as well . <p> Contact us at email protected to learn about upgrade options , unlocking the ability to gift this article . <p> Analysis <h> Trump Wants to Make America Pay Again <p> **39;404;TOOLONG Johnson <p> By Keith Johnson , a reporter at Foreign Policy covering geoeconomics and energy . <p> Trump peeks out from behind a two-page memo with his signature in large black ink . <p> U.S. President Donald Trump holds up a signed presidential memorandum aimed at what he calls Chinese economic aggression at the White House in Washington on March 22 , 2018 . Mark Wilson/Getty Images <p> What 's fascinating about former U.S. President Donald Trump 's return to the White House is that he is both replicating former President Grover Cleveland 's rare feat of two nonconsecutive terms and is doing so on a tariff policy that would make Cleveland 's final successor , William McKinley , blush . The world may still be getting its bearings after Trump 's landslide victory , but historians of the 19th century are in fine fettle . <p> Trump , who took tariffs to new depths in his first term , has promised to make them the centerpiece of his second-term economic agenda -- alongside tax cuts , a bigger deficit , possible cuts to the safety net , and a reversal of everything outgoing President Joe Biden has done . <p> The questions about Trump 's tariff plans boil down to : How big , how soon , how , why , and what happens next ? <h> Harris Calls Trump to Concede <p> Vice President Kamala Harris called President-elect Donald Trump on Wednesday to concede the election , according to a statement that her campaign manager , Jenn O'Malley Dillon , sent to campaign staff . Harris told Trump that she would work with outgoing President Joe Biden " to ensure a peaceful transfer of power , unlike what we saw in 2020 , " Dillon said in an email to campaign staff . " She also made clear that she hopes he will be a President for all Americans . " <p> Harris is scheduled to make her first public comments since losing to Trump at 4 p.m . EST at Howard University in Washington , D.C. <p> " I 'll leave you with this : losing is unfathomably painful . It is hard . This will take a long time to process , " Dillon wrote . " But the work of protecting America from the impacts of a Trump Presidency starts now . " <p> The Trump campaign confirmed Harris 's call in a statement from the campaign 's communications director , Steven Cheung . " President Trump acknowledged Vice President Harris on her strength , professionalism , and tenacity throughout the campaign , and both leaders agreed on the importance of unifying the country , " Cheung said . <p> Update , Nov. 6 , 2024 : This post has been updated to include the Trump campaign 's statement . <p> Contact us at email protected to learn about upgrade options , unlocking the ability to gift this article . <p> Argument <h> Before Trump Returns , Congress Should Buy Weapons for Ukraine <p> By Josh Rudolph , the head of the German Marshall Fund 's Transatlantic Democracy Working Group . <p> U.S. and Ukrainian flags fly near the U.S. Capitol in Washington on April 20 . <p> U.S. and Ukrainian flags fly near the U.S. Capitol in Washington on April 20 . Nathan Howard/Getty Images <p> A month after Franklin D. Roosevelt won the 1940 presidential election , he called for legislation to ramp up military aid to countries fighting Nazi Germany . Congress passed the Lend-Lease Act in March 1941 . Within months , Britain and the Soviet Union were pounding Adolf Hitler 's forces with U.S. weapons and other equipment . <p> Now that Americans have voted to return Donald Trump to the White House , the situation risks flipping into reverse : After Jan. 20 , 2025 , the United States may abandon its European allies to Russian leader Vladimir Putin 's fascist war machine . <p> During his campaign , Trump said he will " not give a penny to Ukraine . " Part of his plan to end the war " in one day " is that he would " tell Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky , no more . You got to make a deal . " But if Russia is allowed to conquer and subjugate Ukraine , it would only be a matter of which democracy gets colonized next by a neighboring dictatorship : Poland , the Baltic States , Moldova , or Taiwan . <p> Thus , over the next 75 days , Congress and the Biden administration face an urgent historic mission to help Ukraine get as many weapons as possible before a possible withdrawal of U.S. support . <h> How Gender Shaped the Election Results <p> By Christina Lu , an energy and environment reporter at Foreign Policy . <p> Exit poll data offers a glimpse into how gender -- a key focus of both presidential campaigns -- factored into former U.S. President Donald Trump 's reelection . <p> Women have traditionally leaned Democratic over Republican . That was true for this election , too : 54 percent of women voted for Vice President Kamala Harris , while the same percent of men backed Trump . Interestingly , Harris did not make more inroads among women than President Joe Biden or former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton did in 2020 and 2016 , respectively , despite Harris 's efforts to galvanize female voters over reproductive rights . <p> Along racial lines , Trump won the majority of support of both white men and women , performing particularly well among white voters without college degrees . Black men and women overwhelmingly backed Harris , with 92 percent of Black women casting their votes for the vice president . <p> The majority of Latina women also voted for Harris , but by a slimmer margin of support for Democrats than in previous years . Latino men , who largely backed Biden and Clinton in the last two elections , flipped for Trump this election . <p> Across age groups , Harris performed particularly well among women aged 18-44 and women above the age of 65 . Trump saw strong support from men above the age of 30 . Men aged 18-29 tilted toward Harris , but only by two percentage points . <h> Dearborn Voters Rebuke Biden and Harris 's Middle East Policy <p> **37;445;TOOLONG Mackinnon <p> By Amy Mackinnon , a national security and intelligence reporter at Foreign Policy . <p> President-elect Donald Trump won the Michigan city of Dearborn , a closely watched race seen as a potential barometer of whether the Biden administration 's Middle East policies would factor in at the ballot box . <p> A majority of the city 's residents -- 55 percent -- are of Middle Eastern descent . A little more than 42 percent of people in the city voted for Trump , according to data from the city clerk reported by the Detroit Free Press , while 36 percent voted for Vice President Kamala Harris . The city was a focal point for the Uncommitted Movement , which sought to pressure the Biden administration to change its stance on Israel and the wars in Gaza and Lebanon . <p> Leaders of the movement did not endorse Harris , but they called on their supporters not to vote for Trump . <p> In a sign of discontent with both candidates , the Green Party 's Jill Stein won 18 percent of the vote in Dearborn , compared with less than half a percentage point nationally . <p> While the war in Gaza appears to have played a role in the results of the vote in pockets of the country such as Dearborn , it 's unlikely to have been a decisive factor in the outcome of the election given the scale of Trump 's lead over Harris . <h> Where the Democrats Went Wrong <p> Kamala Harris 's campaign slogan notwithstanding , Donald Trump will be the next president of the United States . Just what does this mean ? A few things stand out for me already . <p> The first is that the late-campaign focus among Democrats and commentators on whether Black voters , and men in particular , would turn out in large enough numbers for Harris hurt her candidacy . <p> Black people do n't like to be told every four years that the future of American democracy rests on their shoulders , only to be forgotten until the next election . And Black men resent being scolded about their supposed apathy -- even when this comes from another Black man , as in the case of former President Barack Obama , whose starchy rhetoric on Harris 's campaign trail was probably counterproductive . This push may have also driven away some white voters , a group that has leaned Republican in recent elections , reinforcing their sense of the Democratic Party as a Black party . <p> The message Harris 's campaign relied on most to appeal to white people , and especially white women , was a pledge to restore the right to abortion . However , according to exit polling , the majority of white women voted for Trump , which seems to suggest that racial identity is as powerful among white people as it is commonly assumed to be among Black people . <p> Against a weak candidate with as many liabilities as Trump , what Harris lacked most of all was a program . Harris had barely 100 days in the race , but she and her party failed to define a platform that went beyond leaning on traditional constituencies and the abortion issue . Trump 's campaign was almost entirely free of details , but it did project a vision -- one of resurgent nationalism , of turning back immigrants , and of heightened executive power . For the majority that elected him , that was enough . <p> Contact us at email protected to learn about upgrade options , unlocking the ability to gift this article . <p> Analysis <h> As a Lame Duck , Biden Could Become Tougher With Israel <p> By David E. Rosenberg , the economics editor and a columnist for the English edition of Haaretz and the author of Israel 's Technology Economy . <p> U.S. President Joe Biden ( right ) meets with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu ( left ) in the White House in Washington , D.C. , on July 25 . U.S. President Joe Biden ( right ) meets with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu ( left ) in the White House in Washington , D.C. , on July 25 . <p> U.S. President Joe Biden ( right ) meets with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu ( left ) in the White House in Washington , D.C. , on July 25 . Andrew Harnik/Getty Images <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu took a big risk this week when he abruptly fired his defense minister , Yoav Gallant . U.S. voters were going to the polls in a presidential election in which the outcome was by no means certain , but Netanyahu seemed willing to bet that former U.S. President Donald Trump would emerge victorious and that giving Gallant the boot would cost him little in regard to relations with Israel 's most important ally . <p> Now that Trump has won the election , Netanyahu might be vindicated , but that will only become clear over the next few months as the new president assembles his foreign-policy team and his squishy campaign rhetoric is translated into actual policies . What is more certain is that in the short term -- between now and Jan. 20 -- dumping Gallant will almost certainly prove to have been a bad gamble because Netanyahu will have to continue dealing with the outgoing Biden administration . <h> China and Taiwan Congratulate Trump on Victory <p> On Wednesday , China and Taiwan both offered their congratulations to U.S. President-elect Donald Trump . <p> Taiwanese President Lai Ching-te wrote on X at 6:30 a.m . EST : " Sincere congratulations to President-elect @realDonaldTrump on your victory . I 'm confident that the longstanding #Taiwan-#US partnership , built on shared values &amp; interests , will continue to serve as a cornerstone for regional stability &amp; lead to greater prosperity for us all . " <p> At 11 a.m . EST , after it was reported that Vice President Kamala Harris would deliver a concession speech later Wednesday , Chinese Ambassador to the United States Xie Feng followed with his own note : ? ? " My warm congratulations to Mr. Trump @realDonaldTrump on his reelection as President of the United States ! China looks forward to working with the U.S. side for a stable , sound and sustainable China-U.S. relationship . " <p> The Chinese Foreign Ministry also posted this statement on its website : " We respect the choice of the American people and congratulate Mr. Trump on being elected as president of the United States . " <p> Chinese President Xi Jinping has yet to make a statement . In 2016 , Xi waited one day to congratulate Trump on his victory , and in 2020 , he waited several weeks to congratulate U.S. President Joe Biden . <p> The warm messages from both the Chinese and Taiwanese governments so far stand in contrast to deep concerns in both places about the potential for the Trump presidency to destabilize their relationships with the United States , given Trump 's threat of 60 percent tariffs on China and his comments that Taiwan should pay the United States more for its military support . <h> How Did Voter Turnout Compare ? <p> U.S. voter turnout on Nov. 5 is projected to be around 65 percent , with more than 158 million ballots counted , according to data from the University of Florida 's Election Lab . That number is a dip from the 2020 U.S. presidential election , which registered a historic 67 percent turnout . <h> U.S. Voter Turnout Over Time <p> This year , Indonesia ( 82 percent ) and Sri Lanka ( 79 percent ) had some of the highest voter turnout globally . In Indonesia , which holds the largest single-day election in the world , restaurants handed out free food and coffee to voters amid heavy rain . In Sri Lanka , more than 13 million voters headed to the polls for the first time since the country spiraled into an economic crisis in 2022 . <h> Comparison of Global Voter Turnout in 2024 Elections <p> By contrast , the countries with some of the lowest voter turnout rates this year were Pakistan ( 48 percent ) and Bangladesh ( 42 percent ) , where opposition leaders were either barred from running or boycotted the election . The United Kingdom registered its lowest voter turnout in a general election since 2001 , despite the Labour Party 's landslide victory . Similarly , South Africa 's voter turnout ( 59 percent ) was the lowest in the country 's 30-year democratic history . <h> Trump 's Win Is n't an Anomaly <p> By Julian E. Zelizer , a professor of history and public affairs at Princeton University . <p> It 's time to consider whether the 2020 election was the anomaly , not 2016 . <p> As the results from this year 's vote sink in , Americans must process the basic strength of the MAGA/Republican coalition . While there will be soul-searching among Democrats about what they did wrong , it is equally incumbent on their party to start thinking about how President-elect Donald Trump not only won but also substantially broadened his base . <p> Trump 's appeal to rural , working-class Americans is clearly formidable , and he has expanded his reach among Black , Latino , and suburban voters -- once considered solid members of the Democratic bloc . <p> After the 2020 election , political journalists Amie Parnes and Jonathan Allen wrote Lucky , which examined the unexpected variables that resulted in President Joe Biden securing the Democratic nomination and winning the general election at the height of the COVID-19 pandemic . Looking back , the authors were onto something : In 2020 , few votes would have been necessary to shift the outcome to Trump -- who increased his total vote count from about 63 million to 74 million , despite his record in office . <p> Though the unique circumstances of 2020opened a window for Biden to defeat Trump , now that those circumstances are gone , the latter has roared back into power . <p> Democrats need to wake up -- not to replicate the kind of reactionary populism that the Republican Party has used to win but rather to start the process of figuring out how to address the economic concerns and frustrations of working-class Americans who feel abandoned by political institutions . <p> Until Democrats take this step , the risk of 2028 being a continuation of 2024 will only grow stronger . <h> What to Expect From Trump 2.0 on Foreign Policy <p> In September , FP columnist Matthew Kroenig urged U.S. allies to stop worrying about a second Trump administration and reflect on his actual record in office . <p> " Trump was an effective foreign-policy president , presiding over a period of relative global stability and prosperity , and a second Trump administration promises improved performance based on the lessons learned in the first term , " he wrote , pointing to a focus on " peace through strength , " burden-sharing , fair trade , ending the Russia-Ukraine war , toughness on Iran and China , and securing the border . <h> Europe Prepared for Trump 2.0 . But Will It Be Enough ? <p> By Amy Mackinnon , a national security and intelligence reporter at Foreign Policy . <p> When U.S. President-elect Donald Trump unexpectedly won his first term in 2016 , it stunned European officials and sent them scrambling to puzzle out the implications for transatlantic ties . <p> Not this time . <p> For months , European governments have been working behind the scenes on contingency plans to increase the continent 's self-sufficiency and shield military aid to Ukraine from the headwinds of U.S. politics . <p> The mood since Tuesday night has been one of resignation and preparation . " This will probably mean that Europe finally realizes that it has to start taking care of itself , " said a European official who was granted anonymity to speak candidly about the results . " The world 's oldest teenager will finally have to move out . " <p> Polish Foreign Minister Radoslaw Sikorski was circumspect in his remarks on the election . " The American people have voted , and we respect their decision , " he said Wednesday morning , speaking to the press . " Europe urgently needs to take more responsibility for its security . " <p> The question is whether these preparations will be enough . Another European official noted that the continent was better prepared " psychologically , " but questioned the substance of actual changes . " It 's not like Europe has made a huge leap in provisioning for its own defense in the meantime , " the official said . <p> First on the list of concerns in Europe is what Trump 's victory could mean for the war in Ukraine , which he has promised to resolve in 24 hours . Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky was quick to congratulate Trump , on whom he will soon rely for the majority of his military aid . <p> Trump 's eschewing of diplomatic norms and his personal relationship with Russian President Vladimir Putin have long stoked anxiety that he may force Ukraine into an unfavorable deal for the sake of ending the war . But some see cause for hope in the **30;484;TOOLONG transactional approach to global affairs . <p> " Overall I am cautiously optimistic , " said Oleksandr Merezhko , the chair of the foreign affairs committee in the Ukrainian parliament . " In my opinion , from now on the issue of Ukraine becomes an issue of his personal success as a politician . He does n't want his legacy to be compared with the American withdrawal from Afghanistan . " <h> How Economists See Trump 's Victory <p> **39;516;TOOLONG Johnson <p> By Keith Johnson , a reporter at Foreign Policy covering geoeconomics and energy . <p> Economists , like much of the world , are having to recalibrate today . <p> Donald Trump 's sweeping victory in Tuesday 's U.S. presidential election answers some questions and poses others . Here 's one question : How good will Trump be for the world 's biggest economy in the short run -- and how scary over the longer haul , not just for the United States ? His promises of monetary and fiscal expansion , paired with trade and labor headwinds Trump is all but certain to inflict himself , portend a genuine economic roller coaster , with winners and losers galore . <p> Oxford Economics just released its view of what it calls a " limited Trump scenario , " in which a Republican White House and Congress extend tax cuts and boost federal spending , especially on defense , that will temporarily offset the harms of higher tariffs and mass deportations . The upshot is slightly stronger GDP growth after Trump 's first full year in office , followed by a sharp correction by 2028 as inflation rises , the labor market tightens , and trade shrinks . <p> The short-term fallout was anticipated -- markets cheered Wednesday -- and easy to model . What is harder to estimate is the impact that Trump 's promised tariffs of up to 20 percent on all trading partners and at least 60 percent on China will have on U.S. trade , growth , and inflation . Oxford Economics assumes the tariffs will be token and phased in ; if Trump goes as promised , the negative macroeconomic impacts would come sooner and harder . <p> Ultimately , as Adam Posen , the president of the Peterson Institute for International Economics , does n't cease to point out , the real risks of Trump 2.0 for the economy are the known unknowns . One can restrict goods ( by hiking tariffs ) , or one can restrict the supply of labor ( by deporting all the immigrants who work in agriculture and services ) . Doing both at the same time would be an unprecedented , risky , and certainly costly experiment . <h> How Trump 's ' America First ' Trade Plan Spoke to Wisconsin Voters <p> Donald Trump has won the election by winning Wisconsin , The Associated Press reports . <p> In his many visits to the Badger State , Trump campaigned hard on the economy , which polls consistently found to be the most important issue to voters there . Wisconsin has the second-highest concentration of manufacturing employment in the country , and industrial policy played a particularly important role in his messaging . <p> In October , I reported on Racine County , a bellwether county at the center of both major candidates ' competing visions for the economy . What 's going on there reveals a great deal about how Trump might go about revitalizing American industry in his second term . <h> Trump Will Be Worse Than Ever for Europe <p> **45;557;TOOLONG ... de Gruyter <p> By Caroline de Gruyter , a columnist at Foreign Policy and a Europe correspondent for the Dutch newspaper NRC Handelsblad . <p> Europe is a big casualty of the U.S. elections . It is better prepared for a Trump presidency than it was eight years ago -- but to limited effect , since Europe 's geopolitical situation has worsened in that same period . <p> Having seen Trump in action , Europe knows what could be coming this time : aggressive economic competition -- even a trade war -- and severe conditionality , at best , on continued U.S. contributions to Europe 's security and defense . Meetings chaired by the European Commission have been held for the past year to prepare for these scenarios . <p> Retaliatory measures have been drawn up if the Trump administration raises tariffs on European goods . And talks about common investments in a European defense industry -- in order to reduce dependence on Washington -- may have stalled , but the proposals exist and can get moving if the 27 member states feel sufficient urgency . Moreover , Europe has ( for once ! ) chosen strong leaders ; one reason Mark Rutte was appointed NATO secretary-general is that , as Dutch prime minister , he managed to work with Trump reasonably well . The hope is clearly that Rutte can keep the United States engaged in NATO as a somewhat reliable ally . <p> Despite these preparations , Europe is not ready for Trump 2.0 . The world has changed radically since 2016 , to Europe 's disadvantage . It is surrounded by two wars , in Ukraine and the Middle East , whose outcomes will be determined by outside powers , not Europeans . The multilateral rules-based order is imploding and can not be shored up by Europeans alone . U.S.-Chinese rivalry , meanwhile , dominates everything -- with Europe squeezed in the middle . <p> Europe can only shield itself when it is strong and defending common positions . During previous shocks ( COVID-19 , the euro crisis , Russia 's invasion of Ukraine ) , the 27 put their differences aside to defend the common interest . Much more resolve will be needed in the coming years . <h> The Biden Administration Now Has an Expiration Date -- and a To-Do List <p> **39;604;TOOLONG Johnson <p> By Keith Johnson , a reporter at Foreign Policy covering geoeconomics and energy . <p> Donald Trump 's clear path to electoral victory shields the United States and the world from a few months of litigation and uncertainty . That does n't mean the ride between now and January will be smooth . <p> The Biden administration now has an expiration date , and a to-do list . Topping it will likely be tapping the remaining presidential drawdown authority to get financial and military aid to Ukraine , which remains locked in an existential struggle for survival after Russia 's invasion and which may soon face pressure from Trump and his administration to reach a negotiated peace with Moscow . <p> As of late October , the Biden administration still had $5.5 billion it could throw into Ukraine 's war chest . In the past , that has come in the form of air-defense batteries , battle tanks , and long-rage U.S. firepower that can help Ukraine balance the playing field against a larger neighbor with seemingly inexhaustible manpower and ample assistance from allies in Asia . <p> With the election over , and new realities dawning , there may also be a new perspective in Washington : Longtime U.S. restrictions on Ukraine 's use of U.S.-supplied weapons to strike targets beyond the front line may now be loosened . Ukraine has pleaded for months to be unleashed , and might now get the chance . <p> That same shift in Washington 's post-electoral calculus could also apply to broader issues . With no reason to worry about spiking oil and gasoline prices , the United States may be more amenable not only to Ukrainian strikes on Russian oil infrastructure , but also to the unsheathing of additional sanctions on miscreant oil producers such as Iran and Venezuela , which skated clear of sanctions all year thanks to U.S. worries about the domestic impact of an energy war . <h> What Trump 's Win Means for U.S. Foreign Policy <p> Donald Trump gestures as he sits at a table behind a microphone . At right is another man seated . Behind them is the U.S. flag and a sign that says " Protect Our Food from China . " <p> Former U.S. President Donald Trump ( left ) speaks about the threat of China to U.S. agriculture at the Smith Farm in Smithton , Pennsylvania , on Sept. 23 . Win McNamee/Getty Images <p> Former U.S. President Donald Trump 's election victory marks the beginning of another roller-coaster ride in U.S. foreign policy . The president-elect is poised to bring back the hallmarks of his first term : a trade war with China , a deep skepticism -- even hostility -- toward multilateralism , a fondness for strongmen , and an iconoclastic , tweet-from-the-hip style of dealmaking diplomacy . Trump 's advisors have said his " peace through strength " approach is what the country needs in this precarious moment . <p> This second term will bring new challenges , though -- not least the two wars , in the Middle East and Ukraine , that the United States is deeply involved in . Trump has promised to end the war in Ukraine before he even takes office , but he has yet to offer any detailed plan ; his plans for bringing peace to the Middle East are equally vague . <p> Unclear as Trump 's designs may be , Foreign Policy waded into his track record as well as his statements and those of his advisors to offer clues on what the future of U.S. foreign policy holds . As Trump 's first term showed , his own whims often contrast with his advisors ' agenda ; this time around , he may have a tighter grip on the wheel as a second-time president likely staffed by a more loyal circle of advisors . <h> Why She Lost <p> Kamala Harris is silhouetted against a cloudy sky at sunset as she walks up the steps of a plane . <p> U.S. Vice President Kamala Harris boards Air Force Two in Nassau , Bahamas , in June 2023 . Chandan Khanna/AFP via Getty Images <p> The postmortems about U.S. Vice President Kamala Harris 's loss to Donald Trump in the 2024 U.S. presidential election will go on for a long time . Many books will be written , pundits ' reputations made and unmade , and academic careers launched as the polling data behind this baffling , unprecedented election are pored over for years to come . But as a first rough draft of history , there are a few ominous road markers that stand out . <p> After a remarkable start to her campaign , Harris failed to close the deal rhetorically . In an unfortunate echo of Hillary Clinton 's loss in 2016 , Harris spent far too much time trying to argue that Trump was unfit for the presidency and too little time delivering a coherent message about why she would be better . Despite overpowering Trump in their only debate on Sept. 10 and raising more than $1 billion in donations in just three months -- a new record -- Harris often floundered when challenged to deliver a convincing summary of her agenda on critical issues such as the economy and immigration . She also fumbled badly in explaining her flip-flops on issues such as fracking ( which she once opposed and later supported , but without pointing out the simple fact that improved technology had made it environmentally safer ) . That led Wall Street Journal commentator Peggy Noonan to label Harris an " artless dodger . " <p> And , in the end , Harris failed to find a politically agile way of distancing herself from her unpopular boss , U.S. President Joe Biden . <h> Donald Trump Wins <p> Donald Trump has won the U.S. presidential election , becoming only the second U.S. president to be elected to two nonconsecutive terms in office and the first convicted felon to win the White House . <p> The Associated Press called the race for Trump around 5:30 a.m . EST after he won the key swing states of Pennsylvania and Wisconsin , securing 277 electoral college votes and thus clinching his victory over Vice President Kamala Harris . The AP call followed those by Fox News and Decision Desk HQ . Trump also triumphed in other key swing states , winning North Carolina earlier in the night and flipping Georgia , which President Joe Biden won in 2020 . <p> Trump hailed his victory in a speech to supporters at Mar-a-Lago , his country club in Florida 's West Palm Beach , taking the stage just before 2:30 a.m . EST and declaring that he was at the helm of a " movement like nobody 's ever seen before . " " Now it 's going to reach a new level of importance because we 're going to help our country heal , " he said . <p> " I will not rest until we have delivered the strong , safe , and prosperous America that our children deserve , and that you deserve , " he added , boasting that he had also won the popular vote . ( As of 6 a.m . EST , Trump had won 51 percent of the popular vote , with nearly 71 million votes . ) Trump lost the popular vote in both 2020 and 2016 . <p> He also referred to " certain networks , " including CNN and MSNBC , as " the enemy camp " before inviting Vice President-elect J.D. Vance to speak . " I think that we just witnessed the greatest political comeback in the history of the United States of America , " Vance said . <p> Trump then retook the mic to thank other key allies , including his family , campaign managers Susie Wiles and Chris LaCivita , billionaire Elon Musk , and Ultimate Fighting Championship CEO Dana White . " We have to put our country first for at least a period of time . We have to fix it because together we can truly make America great again for all Americans , " he concluded just before 3 a.m . EST . " I will not let you down . America 's future will be bigger , better , bolder , richer , safer , and stronger than it has ever been before . " <p> Harris canceled a planned appearance to speak earlier on Tuesday night at her alma mater , Howard University , in Washington , D.C. The Harris campaign did not immediately respond to a request for comment and has not publicly acknowledged Trump 's victory . <h> Some Global Leaders Greet Trump With Cheers , Others Duck and Cover <p> By Keith Johnson , a reporter at Foreign Policy covering geoeconomics and energy . <p> Global leaders reacted to the projected electoral victory of former and seemingly soon-to-be-again President Donald Trump with a mix of crowing and cowing . <p> His friends -- in Israel , Hungary , and India -- greeted a new Trump term with delight , while warier souls sought hurricane insurance in the middle of the storm . <p> " Congratulations on history 's greatest comeback ! " wrote Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on X , looking forward to the " powerful recommitment " of the U.S.-Israeli alliance . Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi offered his " heartiest congratulations . " Hungary 's Viktor Orban cheered a " much needed victory for the World . " Russian President Vladimir Putin did not yet weigh in , but Champagne corks are no doubt popping in Moscow . <p> Other world leaders reacted with the expected mix of shivers , both from pleasure and fear . <p> Dmitry Medvedev , the one-time Russian president and a stalking horse for the Kremlin 's view of the world , said on X that " Kamala is finished ... " warning , " The objectives of the Special Military Operation remain unchanged and will be achieved . " <p> Jair Bolsonaro , the former president of Brazil and a keen student of Trump 's politics and policy , ticked all the boxes in his love letter , applauding the " resurgence of a true warrior . " <p> Ursula von der Leyen , the president of the European Commission , " warmly " congratulated Trump , and reminded him that the United States and Europe are " more than just allies . ... So let 's work together on a strong transatlantic agenda . " It was a message akin to that from British Prime Minister Keir Starmer , who welcomed Trump and reminded him of the importance of the " special relationship . " <p> Those likely to be on the sharp end of Trump 's foreign policy tried to make lemonade out of lemons . Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky , who has perhaps the most at stake next year , congratulated Trump and pleaded not to be abandoned in the middle of a war . " We rely on continued strong bipartisan support for Ukraine in the United States , " he said . <p> NATO chief Mark Ruttechimed in and also reminded Trump that " peace through strength " means " keeping our Alliance strong . " France 's Emmanuel Macron put a brave face on his own kudos , telling Trump he was " ready to work together as we did for four years . ... With respect and ambition . " <p> Early words aside , what Trump 's victory means is a reshuffling of the global order . The fate of Ukraine 's " victory plan " to prevail over Russia is now more uncertain than ever . Israel has no checks other than a blank one from Washington . Autocrats are emboldened . U.S. allies are huddling . As rocky as the last four years have been from a geopolitical perspective , the real tremors -- and aftershocks -- start now . <h> U.S. Stocks and Dollar Boosted by Trump 's Showing <p> **39;645;TOOLONG Johnson <p> By Keith Johnson , a reporter at Foreign Policy covering geoeconomics and energy . <p> Global markets responded to the apparent victory of former President Donald Trump early Wednesday with a mix of fear and anticipation , as the presumptive winner 's proposed economic policies promise smooth sailing for U.S. equities and a rough ride for emerging economies , as well as an intensified trade war with China . <p> The biggest U.S. index was up in pre-market trading , a sign that Trump 's plans to slash regulations and cut taxes are seen as good for business in the short run at least , and the dollar gained strength against most major currencies . Asian stock markets reacted in disparate ways , with Japan 's blue-chip Nikkei index up more than 2 percent , mirrored to a lesser extent by India 's main board , while Shanghai 's composite index slipped a bit , much as the renminbi did against the dollar , a slide mirrored by most smaller economies that stand to bear the brunt of a renewed push for U.S. tariffs and further hurdles to global trade . Iran 's currency , meanwhile , nosedived at the prospect of Trump 2.0 . <p> Trump 's stunning result -- he declared victory around 2:30 a.m . EST and appears poised to have control of both houses of Congress -- left other markets wrestling with a mixture of bullishness and sangfroid . Big cryptocurrencies , such as Bitcoin , jumped to new highs on the expectations that Trump 's economic playbook will mean bigger deficits , lower interest rates , and higher inflation ; that makes alternative assets such as cryptocurrencies more appealing . <p> The oil market , a proxy for investors ' fear of geopolitical risk , took Trump 's dominance in stride , with prices for both U.S. and Brent crude slipping slightly in pre-market trading , a sign that the next U.S. administration will pursue an oil-friendly energy policy without stoking further conflict in the Middle East . <p> Wednesday morning 's result stands in sharp contrast to what occurred in 2020 , when Trump -- running against then-Vice President Joe Biden -- became the first Republican presidential candidate to lose the state in nearly three decades . Biden narrowly won the state by a margin of just under 12,000 votes , a victory driven in part by an 84 percent surge in Asian American voter turnout , as I reported for Foreign Policy . <h> Republicans Retake Control of Senate <p> **42;686;TOOLONG Lu <p> By Christina Lu , an energy and environment reporter at Foreign Policy . <p> For the first time in four years , Republicans have regained control of the Senate . <p> Republicans retook control of the chamber on Tuesday after businessman Bernie Moreno flipped Ohio 's Senate seat and West Virginia Gov . Jim Justice secured the state 's open Senate seat . In Nebraska , the incumbent Republican senator , Deb Fischer , also fended off independent challenger Dan Osborn and held onto her seat . <p> With Moreno 's and Justice 's victories , Republicans will now command at least one chamber of Congress , giving them enormous sway and political leverage in the event of either a Harris or a Trump presidency . <p> In Ohio , Moreno secured 50.3 percent of the vote , defeating his Democratic opponent , incumbent Sen. Sherrod Brown , who won 46.3 percent , with 95 percent of the votes counted , according to The Associated Press . Moreno is a Colombian immigrant who owns a number of car dealerships and was backed by Trump on the campaign trail . <p> For more on key congressional races , check out my colleague Lili Pike 's reporting . <h> Is the U.S. Becoming More Like Nigeria ? <p> **45;730;TOOLONG ... Gbadamosi <p> By Nosmot Gbadamosi , a multimedia journalist and the writer of Foreign Policy 's weekly Africa Brief . <p> U.S. presidential elections matter to African nations because they serve as a barometer for democracy . Extreme polarization , disinformation , and hatred have marred Nigerian ballots -- often resulting in violent protests and the refusal to accept election results . Other familiar practices , such as vote buying , are now being observed in the U.S. campaign . Elon Musk 's $1 million-a-day giveaway to voters via his political action committee feels eerily familiar in Nigeria , where politicians ' use of money to influence voters is commonplace . <p> The dissatisfaction with democracy is also familiar . About 94 percent of Nigerians view politics as corrupt , according to polling firm Afrobarometer . Asked to describe the state of politics last year , about 79 percent of Americans used words like " corrupt " and " divisive " in a Pew Research Center survey . <p> African politicians " can point to the American political landscape , rife with polarization and chaos , to justify their own authoritarian tendencies and abuse of democracy , " development specialist Chinedu George Nnawetanma wrote . <p> But the United States can also learn about accepting ballot results from recent elections in Senegal , South Africa , and , most recently , Botswana . Botswana oversaw a smooth transfer of power on Monday after a crushing election defeat for the Botswana Democratic Party , which had enjoyed 58 years in power . <p> Former President Mokgweetsi Masisi conceded defeat even before full results were announced . Masisi has said he will not run for political office again , despite having served only one out of two possible five-year terms . <p> " Botswana today sends a message to the whole world and says democracy is alive here , democracy is in action , " Botswana 's newly elected leader , Duma Boko , declared after taking office . <h> Democrats Win in Virginia <p> Vice President Kamala Harris has earned Virginia 's 13 Electoral College votes , though by a far slimmer margin than most polls had predicted , The Associated Press reports . Democratic Sen. Tim Kaine also won reelection , beating out longshot challenger Hung Cao , a former U.S. Navy captain . <p> Cao , a Trump acolyte , was born in Vietnam and made anti-communism the centerpiece of his campaign . In an interview with Foreign Policy , Cao said that he was " basically the standard bearer " for Virginia 's Vietnamese American population , the country 's fifth-largest . But as I reported from the Washington , D.C. , suburbs last week , the reality is more complex . The community skews Republican , but there is strong support for Democrats as well . <p> Kaine , who has served in the Senate since 2013 , is a member of the Armed Services and Foreign Relations Committees . He gained national prominence as Hillary Clinton 's running mate in the 2016 election -- and again over the weekend , when he appeared on Saturday Night Live ( along with Harris and pop star Chappell Roan ) . <h> Brazil 's Far-Right Parties at Mar-a-Lago <p> Among the foreign observers at former U.S. President Donald Trump 's election watch party at his Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida is Brazilian lawmaker Eduardo Bolsonaro , the son of former President Jair Bolsonaro . The younger Bolsonaro posted a photo with Donald Trump Jr . to X in which he praised the " good company . " <p> Jair Bolsonaro was banned from running for office until 2030 after a court ruled that he abused his presidential power . But his brand of far-right politics is still influential in Brazil -- and it leans heavily on Trump for strategic cues . In objection to their loss in a presidential election months earlier , Bolsonaro 's supporters stormed the Brazilian seat of government in January 2023 . <p> Eduardo Bolsonaro traveled to the United States with a handful of other conservative Brazilian lawmakers who similarly used their social media profiles to boost Trump 's messaging . <h> The State of Play at 11:30 p.m . <p> The night appears to be heading down a familiar path for U.S. election watchers : a nail-biting tally of the votes in the final swing states , with former U.S. President Donald Trump in the lead . Neither candidate has pulled off an upset ; instead , the race is so far trending along the lines of what the polls projected . Trump appears likely to win Georgia and North Carolina , where the news and polling analysis website 538 had him up by a point heading into Election Day . Vice President Kamala Harris would have to make up ground in the urban areas where the votes are still being counted in order to turn those states around . <p> If Trump wins those two key states , it is likely that the race will come down to the big three " blue wall " states : Wisconsin , Michigan , and Pennsylvania , which helped deliver President Joe Biden to victory in 2020 . Harris had a slight advantage in Wisconsin and Michigan in the final polls , whereas Pennsylvania was dead even . <p> The odds are looking increasingly tough for Harris -- the infamous New York Times needle has swung to " likely " for Trump . <h> What We Know -- and Do n't -- About Bomb Threats During the U.S. Election <p> Pennsylvania . Georgia . Arizona . Michigan . Maine . The list of states in which dozens of polling locations have faced bomb threats on Election Day continues to grow . <p> Authorities at the federal , state , and local levels -- including the FBI -- have all stressed that none of the threats so far have been considered credible , and no bombs have been found at any location , but the threats nonetheless led to temporary suspensions of voting in several counties . Many of the affected polling places will now stay open later than usual so people can cast their ballots . <p> Several officials , including the secretaries of state of Arizona and Georgia , said they believed the bomb threats originated from Russia , though neither provided any evidence to back up that claim . The FBI also said bomb threats in several states " appear to originate from Russian email domains . " <p> Russia does have a long track record of attempting to interfere in U.S. elections , including this one . And it 's not the only time they have been accused of using bomb threats to interfere with the vote during an election -- Germany made similar allegations during the ongoing Moldovan election on Monday . <p> But there is n't a smoking gun just yet . One U.S. official told the Wall Street Journal that there has n't been a formal assessment of Russia 's involvement in the bomb threats . <h> Polarization Is on Display <p> **45;777;TOOLONG ... E. Zelizer <p> By Julian E. Zelizer , a professor of history and public affairs at Princeton University . <p> By most accounts , this presidential election will be close . We do n't have the kinds of landslide elections we had in 1936 , 1972 , or 1984 . Instead , we have elections that come down to a handful of swing states and slivers of the electorate within those states . <p> The landmark book Insecure Majorities by my colleague , Princeton University political scientist Frances Lee , explores this instability . She explains that before 1994 , congressional majorities were quite stable : Democrats had controlled the House since 1954 and the Senate for most of the time ( aside from 1981 to 1987 ) . Since then , however , we have entered an era in which control flips back and forth , and the size of these majorities has shrunk . <p> When Democrats had large and stable majorities , they could afford to make compromises , and Republicans had to reach across the aisle if they wanted any influence . Once that ended , the incentives for partisanship intensified . The potential cost of compromise increased as concessions could flip seats in the next election . Partisan battles became endless . <p> Presidential campaigns are now driven by similar dynamics . As fault lines have calcified , it has become increasingly difficult to know which way the electoral winds will blow . Candidates must slug it out over very small parts of the electorate , and the stakes of each fight have become greater . The 2000 election ushered in this era , when the parties entered a bare-knuckles battle over the vote count in Florida . <p> Although the colors of some of the states have changed , including Florida , we have been living in the shadow of that contentious election ever since . <h> AI 's Role in Election Misinformation <p> One of the biggest fears around this year 's U.S. presidential contest was how widespread and impactful political misinformation would be -- particularly with artificial intelligence and its ability to generate realistic images , audio , and video on demand . So far , the impact has been muted ; the handful of AI-generated videos that have gained traction have been quickly debunked ( and mostly attributed to Russia ) by U.S. intelligence and security agencies , and much of the AI content on social media has been what author and tech journalist Brian Merchant described in a post on X as " the worst and corniest propaganda you 've ever seen . " <p> At the start of 2024 , however , ahead of the dozens of national elections around the world that took place before Americans went to the polls , the impact of AI was a far more open and troubling question . In an article for our Winter 2024 issue , I dug into the implications of AI on election misinformation -- including the causes for concern and the case for calm . Read it here : What AI Will Do to Elections <h> A Historic Victory in Delaware <p> Democrat Sarah McBride was elected to represent Delaware 's sole seat in the U.S. House of Representatives , The Associated Press reports . Her victory is historic : McBride will be the first openly transgender person to serve in Congress . <p> McBride 's victory comes amid widespread anti-trans sentiment in the United States , particularly among Republicans . This year alone , 45 anti-trans bills have passed in 43 states , according to the Trans Legislation Tracker . Former President Donald Trump and his running mate , J.D. Vance , have made anti-trans messaging central to their campaign . <p> McBride currently serves in Delaware 's state Senate and was previously the national spokesperson for the Human Rights Campaign . <h> Florida Called for Trump <p> Former U.S. President Donald Trump has once again secured Florida , winning 30 electoral votes with a projected 56 percent of the vote , according to The Associated Press . Some 94 percent of the vote has been counted thus far . <p> Once considered a swing state , Florida has gone to Trump in three consecutive presidential elections . Despite his mass deportation plan , he remains popular among the state 's growing Venezuelan diaspora , who favor his economic policy and hard-line approach toward Venezuelan President Nicol ? s Maduro . According to CNN , initial exit polls indicate that 57 percent of Florida 's Latino votes went to Trump -- with both Latino men ( 64 percent ) and Latina women ( 51 percent ) preferring the former president . <p> Although the state 's Senate race was deemed tight by some watchers , the Republican incumbent , Sen. Rick Scott , won some 55 percent of the vote , defeating former Rep. Debbie Mucarsel-Powell by a 13 percent margin , with 93 percent of votes counted . <h> U.S. Election Results Have High Stakes for Taiwan <p> As the election results trickle in , the Taiwanese are among the foreign audiences with the most at stake . Under a Kamala Harris presidency , U.S. support for Taiwan is expected to remain consistent . However , if Trump takes the Oval Office , he might shake up the relationship . <p> In recent months , Trump has suggested that he thinks Taiwan is n't giving the United States enough in exchange for U.S. defense support . What a better deal might look like according to Trump is n't clear , but experts previously told Foreign Policy that it might entail pushing Taiwan to increase the percentage of GDP it spends on its military -- the same demand Trump has made of numerous U.S. allies . Another concern for Taiwan : Elon Musk , one of Trump 's top supporters this cycle , has suggested that Taiwan should be made into a special administrative zone of China , like Hong Kong . <p> A recent poll shows that Taiwanese people support Harris over Trump by a wide margin . Jason Hsu , a former Taiwanese legislator at-large and current fellow at the Hudson Institute , told Foreign Policy on Tuesday : " I do n't think we are nervous about a Trump second term , but we must ensure we handle it with practicality and clear-mindedness . We must understand Trump is transactional , and if he does a favor for us , he may ask for something bigger in return . " <h> Andy Kim to Become First Korean American Senator <p> Democratic Rep. Andy Kim of New Jersey will become the first Korean American in the Senate after winning his race against Republican Curtis Bashaw . Kim 's victory keeps the seat in Democratic hands after it was vacated by former Sen. Bob Menendez , who became embroiled in a corruption scandal this year . Kim , 42 , will also be the third-youngest member of the Senate . <p> Kim is a former diplomat whose work with the State Department and the National Security Council has taken him to Iraq and Afghanistan . In Foreign Policy in 2021 , he described his experience growing up as a second-generation Korean American . When " I see Asian Americans across this country declaring with one , proud voice that they belong , " he wrote , " that feels like an act of defiance against the hate and the violence we 've endured . " <p> In a long interview with me on FP Live last year , just days after the Oct. 7 Hamas attack on Israel , he described how policymakers needed to reflect on lessons from 9/11 and the war on terrorism and " be very mindful about what comes next . " <h> Philadelphia Officials Refute Trump Election Fraud Claims <p> By Christina Lu , an energy and environment reporter at Foreign Policy . <p> Philadelphia officials have asserted that there is no evidence of election fraud in the city , sharply refuting Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump 's earlier unfounded claims of " massive cheating " there . <p> Trump refuses to acknowledge losing his 2020 reelection bidto current President Joe Biden and has long peddled unsubstantiated claims of voter fraud , despite a mountain of evidence to the contrary . The former U.S. leader has intensified those claims in recent weeks , fueling concerns that he may be laying the groundwork to contest a potential election loss . <p> On Tuesday , Trump alleged in a post on Truth Social that there was " a lot of talk about massive CHEATING in Philadelphia , " without offering any evidence . He added : " Law enforcement coming ! ! ! " <p> His claims were swiftly repudiated by Philadelphia officials . " There is no factual basis whatsoever within law enforcement to support this wild allegation , " Philadelphia District Attorney Larry Krasner said in a statement on Tuesday , which noted that officials have " invited complaints and allegations of improprieties all day . " <p> " If Donald J. Trump has any facts to support his wild allegations , we want them now . Right now . We are not holding our breath , " Krasner added . <p> Seth Bluestein , a Republican Party member and a city commissioner in Philadelphia , said that Trump 's claim was " yet another example of disinformation . " <p> " There is absolutely no truth to this allegation , " he wrote on X , adding that the city has been in regular contact with the Republican National Convention . " We have been responsive to every report of irregularities at the polls to ensure Philadelphians can vote safely and securely . " <h> Murphy Coasts to Reelection in Connecticut <p> Democratic Sen. Chris Murphy has won reelection in Connecticut , beating Republican challenger Matthew Corey , a business owner and U.S. Navy veteran , The Associated Press reported . <p> Murphy is a leading progressive voice in U.S. foreign policy and a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee . He is also a semi-regular contributor to Foreign Policy . In his most recent piece , he reflected on a recent visit to Kenya , arguing that the United States should devote more resources to promoting good governance abroad . <p> " Poor governance creates a vicious circle of corruption , inefficiency , and underdevelopment , " Murphy wrote . " In Kenya and elsewhere , it has also provided fertile ground for predatory foreign actors such as Russia and China to bribe their way into contracts and influence . " <h> Why This Election Feels Different <p> **45;824;TOOLONG ... E. Zelizer <p> By Julian E. Zelizer , a professor of history and public affairs at Princeton University . <p> Millions of Americans are watching their television sets , refreshing their screens , and filling up their coffee cups in anticipation of a late night , all feeling tremendously anxious about the forthcoming election projections and results . <p> Why do Americans feel this degree of emotional intensity ? The answers may seem obvious . Of course , the policy stakes of either outcome are high . Moreover , voters have extraordinarily strong partisan feelings in 2024 -- a level of animosity toward those who support opposing sides that goes well beyond policy preferences . Part of this sentiment stems from Donald Trump himself , one of the most divisive figures in modern American history . <p> But a large part of the tension revolves around an existential question : What is America 's character in 2024 ? In the final days of the campaign , Trump and Vice President Kamala Harris offered fundamentally different views on what the country is about . In her closing argument , Harris embraced the values of democracy , pluralism , bipartisanship , and hope . In his , Trump chose fear , danger , rage , and reactionism . <p> Presidential elections certainly do n't define a nation . The United States is more complicated than that . Yet this election falls in the category of those that bring us closer to an answer . And for this reason , voters are watching with bated breath . <h> First U.S. Electoral Results Roll In <p> The first results are in . Former U.S. President Donald Trump has taken Indiana 's 11 Electoral College votes , Kentucky 's eight , and West Virginia 's four , according to The Associated Press , which called the races . All three states went to Trump in the 2020 and 2016 presidential elections and have historically leaned conservative . <p> Meanwhile , Vice President Kamala Harris received Vermont 's three Electoral College votes , according to the AP . The northeastern state went blue in the past two presidential elections , to Hillary Clinton in 2016 and Joe Biden in 2020 . <p> The candidates need 270 Electoral College votes to declare victory . Most eyes are on Georgia and North Carolina , the first two key swing states of seven to close voting Tuesday night . <h> What a Trump Win Would Mean for Germany <p> U.S. voters know that they are determining their own government in this election , but do they know that they might also decide Germany 's ? <p> The so-called traffic light coalition , which includes Chancellor Olaf Scholz 's Social Democrats , the German Greens , and the business-friendly Free Democratic Party ( FDP ) , has been in power for three years . For the last year , it has been hanging by a thread : The parties are bickering over pretty much everything , most recently over how to stimulate the economy after years of stagnation . <p> Whether the coalition manages to limp on will depend on whether there is an electoral advantage to be gained by preempting the regularly scheduled election next year . Germans are known for prizing stability , but recent polling seems to indicate that they simply want the current coalition put out of its misery . <p> Last week , FDP leader and Finance Minister Christian Lindner circulated a document that amounted to a request for divorce , seemingly calculating that Germans would reward the FDP for blowing up the government and forcing an early election . <p> But the election of Donald Trump in the United States could change that . Trump represents nothing if not the threat of instability for Germany , whether in the form of new tariffs on German cars or a cease-fire deal in Ukraine that leads to new waves of refugees . <p> The last thing Germans will want then is a government thrust into an unplanned election campaign , unable to act in a moment of crisis . A second Trump administration , in other words , could give Germany 's government a new lease on life . <h> The Military 's Unusual Role in This Election Campaign <p> In a Fox News interview last month , Donald Trump suggested that election chaos could be handled by the military , " if really necessary . " His remarks , which drew condemnation for politicizing the military , came amid the first presidential election with both post-all-volunteer force and post-9/11 veterans on the ticket : Trump 's running mate , Sen. J.D. Vance , served as a junior enlisted Marine , and Harris 's , Gov . Tim Walz , was a senior enlisted noncommissioned officer in the Army National Guard . " What should have been a positive -- that both vice presidential candidates volunteered to serve in the country 's all-volunteer force at a time when most Americans did not -- has instead become a potential negative , with partisans on both sides casting aspersions on their service , " Peter D. Feaver wrote in September . <p> Military leaders have played an outsized role in this campaign , with retired Marine Corps Gen. John Kelly recently calling Trump , his former boss , an " authoritarian , " and Mark Milley , a retired Army general who was chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff during the Trump administration , telling journalist Bob Woodward for his new book that Trump is a " fascist to the core . " Milley 's comments have been used in Harris campaign advertising to suggest Trump is " not fit " to serve as commander in chief . <p> Despite these unusual interjections from top brass , military veterans remain a Republican-leaning group , a recent Pew Research Center survey shows . About 60 percent of registered voters who say they have served in the military or military reserves favor Trump . Six percent of the population overall has served in the military , according to the U.S. Census Bureau , down from 18 percent in 1980 . <h> The Democratic Process Is Working -- So Far <p> By Julian E. Zelizer , a professor of history and public affairs at Princeton University . <p> Irrespective of who wins this election , there is some good news from the hustings for all of us : U.S. democracy seems to be working . <p> Although there have been some problems with equipment and a few unsubstantiated bomb threats against polling places , the voting process has been relatively smooth thus far . Poll workers have been able to do their job safely , long lines have been moving , and ballots are being processed . From early accounts , rates of participation are high , as was early voting . And thankfully , despite the toxic rhetoric stemming from former President Donald Trump , there have been no major incidents of violence reported . <p> It 's a good reminder that despite what happened after the 2020 election , the before and during of the process worked well . Even in a polarizing pandemic , election officials throughout the country put into place systems that allowed Americans to vote by mail and through drop boxes while figuring out how to move citizens through polling places safely on Election Day . Turnout rates were high -- almost 160 million , a sizable boost of more than 20 million from the 2016 election . None of this was easy . Some even called it a " miracle . " <p> No matter who comes out on top , there will be bitter tensions in the electorate , and the postelection period will remain fraught with danger . Yet , assuming the current patterns hold , it is worth celebrating what state and local law enforcement , poll workers , election officials , and most importantly voters themselves have accomplished within a deeply divided map . Americans are exercising their hard-earned right to vote , and the infrastructure supporting this right has held firm . <h> What Do Indians Think of Harris ? <p> By Michael Kugelman , the writer of Foreign Policy 's weekly South Asia Brief and the director of the South Asia Institute at the Wilson Center . <p> On Tuesday , The Associated Press published an Election Day story from the southern Indian village of Thulasendrapuram -- the birthplace of Vice President Kamala Harris 's maternal grandfather . Residents there revere her and hope that she becomes the next U.S. president . <p> But this is just one of many views that Indians hold of Harris . Her Indian ancestry may provoke warmth and respect in her grandfather 's hometown , but other Indians perceive that she has held back from embracing her Indian roots , at least publicly . <p> Though Harris has spoken about that background , including in her speech at the Democratic National Convention and while feting Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi at a State Department luncheon last year , she has n't visited India often in recent years . ( She has reportedly never been to Thulasendrapuram . ) <p> Some Indians fear that as president , Harris would , like many Democrats , focus unwelcome attention on India 's internal affairs , including its human rights record . Others see her as a strong backer of the U.S.-India partnership who can build on two decades of growth in bilateral ties and fast-growing spaces for cooperation to take the relationship to new heights . <h> A Musk-Trump Election Watch Party <p> Elon Musk will head to Mar-a-Lago , former U.S. President Donald Trump 's Florida country club , to watch the election results with the Republican candidate on Tuesday evening , according to the New York Times . ( Vice President Kamala Harris , meanwhile , will be in Washingon , D.C. , watching the election results at Howard University , her alma mater . ) <p> Musk has marshaled his considerable resources toward boosting Trump in the weeks and months leading up to the election , donating tens of millions of dollars to Trump 's campaign , appearing with him at rallies , and unleashing a flood of often false or misleading political posts on X , the social media platform Musk purchased in 2022 for $44 billion . The latest of those came on Monday , when Musk shared posts claiming that Google 's search engine produced " where to vote " results for Harris but not for Trump . Google responded to Musk through its own X account , explaining that the discrepancy was because " Harris " is also the name of a county in Texas and that 's what the search results were producing . It had similar results for " Vance " -- the last name of Trump 's running mate , Ohio Sen. J.D. Vance -- because Vance is also a county . <p> Musk , in a rare public acknowledgment of his mistake , reshared Google 's explanation with , " Thanks for the clarification . " <h> If He Wins , Will Trump Really Change History ? <p> In an article published in Foreign Policy 's Fall 2024 issue , I quoted historians and political experts as suggesting that Donald Trump could transform the global system beyond recognition if he returns to the presidency . <p> The fear is that he 'll discard or ignore U.S. allies and pull out of NATO and possibly even the United Nations . As Joseph Ellis , a Pulitzer Prize-winning presidential historian , argued , the " Again " in Trump 's Make America Great Again movement means a return to the past . In this case , Ellis said , it suggests " going back sometime before 1940 , " when isolationism dominated U.S. policy . <p> But others argued that the forces of inertia -- or the status quo ante -- may prove stronger than people think . Kiron Skinner , the former head of policy planning under Secretary of State Mike Pompeo , noted that in his first term , Trump did not orchestrate " a pull away from the broad-based liberal international order . " In his second term , Skinner said , Trump would only seek to " right-size America 's role in the world " by demanding that U.S. allies step up more on defense . <p> Yes , Trump has altered the terms of the political debate more than any president since Ronald Reagan and , before him , Franklin D. Roosevelt . He has upended the postwar and post-Cold War consensus and transformed what Americans talk about , whether international economics , trade , alliances , or immigration . <p> But other than swearing by tariffs , he still lacks a coherent vision or program . Thus , it is also possible that when he passes from the scene , the 78-year-old Trump could eventually be seen as more of a historical blip than a world-altering figure . " Betting on inertia in U.S. foreign policy is a very good bet , " said Stephen Wertheim , a political scientist at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace . " It 's really , really hard to change U.S. foreign policy in a big way . " <h> Why Is U.S. Election Calling So Weird ? <p> The United States votes Tuesday -- but we may not know the outcome for days to come . A critical part of this process will be the " calling " of results by different media outlets , chief among them being The Associated Press . It 's a system that does n't exist in most of the democratic world , where electoral authorities declare results once votes are fully counted . <p> There 's no legal role for the media to call U.S. elections . Like so many aspects of American political life , it 's an improvised measure that acts as a partial solution to a lasting problem -- in this case , the size and disunity of the country . It was only in 1845 , for instance , that the country passed a law to establish a single uniform election day ; before that , states picked any date between November and December . <p> The AP began calling presidential elections in 1848 , around the widespread adoption of the telegraph , and added other elections over time . The organization forecasts the vote of the Electoral College , which officially selects the U.S. president . <p> The AP 's call is a partial fix to the slowness of the U.S. count . In more average-sized countries , such as the United Kingdom or France , authorities return results within a few hours of polls closing . In India , with roughly four times as many voters as the United States , six weeks of voting produces results that are counted and finalized in a single day , which occurs a few days after polls close . <p> But in the United States , offices from the president to local school boards can be on the same ballot . Adding all that up takes a long time -- not to mention the fact that every state has a different set of counting standards . <p> The gradual accumulation of results , rather than a single announcement , can create uncertainty and vulnerabilities . Look no further than the " Brooks Brothers riot " of 2000 or former President Donald Trump 's call to " stop the count " in 2020.
