<h> Sponsored <h> Mansoor 's Musings : Wait and see approach best as Trump takes over White House <p> I could n't believe as the results of the U.S. presidential elections were splashed on the TV screen indicating a huge majority for Donald Trump as he triumphantly became the president-elect of the U.S. Only in America , as they say , such a thing could happen . A convicted felon with a record of hating immigrants marched into the White House to become the 47th U.S. President on January 20 . Unbelievable , is n't it ? Political pundits and current affairs analysts have been busy doing the election postmortem to determine the reasons for such a massive victory . One commentator explained that many voters backed the former president to protest the Biden administration 's support for Israel in the war in Gaza . Kamala Harris was also blamed for the devastation of Gaza -- which followed the Hamas-led attack on Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 -- happened on the Biden-Harris administration 's watch . A Muslim leader suggested that Trump won the hearts and minds of many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last two months . " This guy is a Muslim-friendly guy , " said Rabiul Chowdhury , a founder of Muslims for Trump who is based in Pennsylvania . Margret Atwood is reported to suggest that " some people will shoot themselves than elect a woman . " Ms. Harris is the second woman after Hillary Clinton to face Trump and lose the election . Voters conveniently forgot that Trump is , of course , the same guy who during his last presidency blocked citizens of predominantly Muslim countries from entering the United States and who spent years demonizing and insulting Muslim Americans . As president , he repeatedly made clear he supported the right-wing government of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel , taking several steps , that Muslim and Arab voters found inflammatory , including moving the U.S. Embassy to Jerusalem . Arab American and Muslim supporters said they were ready to take a chance on him anyway in interviews during the campaign . Benjamin Netanyahu , Israel 's prime minister , was one of the first to congratulate Trump and has previously called him Israel 's best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ editorial , The Globe &amp; Mail said : " Dozens of Mr. Trump 's previous cabinet ministers , generals and staff members have said he is unfit for office ; more than one described him as a fascist . This time , Mr. Trump has surrounded himself with sycophants who will gleefully mete out his retribution and implement his agenda . " The world in the post-Trump era would be different and especially for Canada , the U.S. 's friendly neighbour and trading partner , has much to get worried . There are challenges on the horizon as Trump has promised to deport millions of immigrants and impose tariffs to safeguard American interests -- both of which measures will directly affect Canada whose trade relationship is worth more than a trillion dollars . Canada exports 75 per cent of its goods and services to the US -- and Trump 's promise of blanket 10 per cent tariffs could significantly affect its economy . The Canadian government has been issuing positive statements to allay fears but judging from Trump 's past record and statements issued by Trump 's border czar , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ security vulnerability " along the U.S.- Canada border which he plans to deal with as soon as the new Republican administration takes over . Human smuggling activity from Canada has risen sharply over the past two years , particularly along the border between eastern Ontario , Quebec , New York and Vermont. ? U.S. Border Patrol ( USBP ) agents apprehended over 19,000 individuals , from 97 different countries , through this area over a 12-month span ending Oct. 2 , according to U.S. Customs and Border Protection statistics . Canada will have to tighten security on its borders and enforce the country 's immigration laws . The democratic world will be facing more challenges . The Republican have vowed to end the war in Ukraine in a single day and has repeatedly criticized US military aid for Ukraine . Trump will also have to tackle North Korea 's growing involvement In Russia 's invasion . Now , it 's anyone 's guess what Trump could do , especially when he is on friendly terms with the Russian President Vladimir Putin . China is bracing itself for the return of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new trade war . When Trump was president , he imposed tariffs on over $300 billion of Chinese imports . He has said the new tariffs could be more than 60 percent . One pundit thinks that under Trump the US will " retreat " from its global superpower status while another suggested the US election fitted the Kremlin 's " overall vision of the world , " in which " liberal globalism has depleted its efficiency . " Under these circumstances , the best approach would be to adopt a wait and see attitude , given the uncertainty and unpredictability that existed under the first Trump administration . Mansoor Ladha is a Calgary-based journalist , travel writer and author of Aga Khan : Bridge between east &amp; West , Memoirs of a Muhindi : Fleeing East Africa for the West , Off the Cuff and A Portrait in Pluralism : Aga Khan 's Shia Ismaili Muslims .
