<h> Trump -- Uniter-in-chief <p> Exactly a month before his assassination , President John F. Kennedy gave an interview to Jean Daniel Bensaid , a French journalist . JFK had told Mr Bensaid that he acknowledged misplaced American support of Fulgencio Batista , who had become Cuban president for a second time in a 1952 coup , and whose regime he categorised as the most corrupt anywhere in the world . JFK also stated that he had approved of Castro 's 1956 proclamation from Sierra Maestra , for justice and an end to the Batista regime 's endemic corruption . Mr Bensaid was to inform Castro that the US could respect a nationalist , even communist government in Cuba , but could not relate to a country " indentured " to the Soviet Union . When the Cuban Revolution gained victory on January 1 , 1959 , Batista fled the country leaving the Treasury empty ; America refused to aid Castro , who was then deemed too much of a left-wing threat , and Moscow was only too ready to bridge the gap . This brief history of Cuba turning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mind when reading of the current dismantling of the US Agency for International Development ( USAID ) . <p> President Trump 's ' Chief Broligarch ' and world 's richest man , Elon Musk , is tasked with cleaning up the fraud and corruption that exists within Washington 's many agencies and government departments . President Trump had long campaigned to " drain the swamp " , but eyebrows and blood pressures are raised by the pace and severity with which Elon and his band of juvenile Musketeers are going about their task -- using machetes rather than scalpels to perform delicate operations . Many poorer countries around the world depend on USAID , and if this is no longer available , surely Russia will again step into the breach ; along with China , whose Belt and Road Initiative already has strong influence around the globe . The Musketeers are not alone in upsetting the status quo , as campaign promises to unite the country behind him became convoluted with President Trump 's peace plans to end the war in Ukraine . Those plans initially have only Russia and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the excluded countries of Europe against him . He has also united the entire Arab world and almost every country on the globe , except Israel , with his controversial plan to rebuild Gaza . By repeatedly threatening to make Canada his 51st state , he has united all the provincial and territorial premiers , who usually spend all their time bickering , back-stabbing and squabbling with each other , into a solid resistance that has motivated much of their population to wrap themselves in the Canadian Maple Leaf flag , too . There 's no doubt that President Trump is the uniter-in-chief.
