<p> As the Israeli onslaught on Gaza clocked past 423 days this week , my friend Mahmoud* , a Gazan language professor , checked in with me via WhatsApp : " I am ok , just been busy with a few things , mainly trying to survive ... Things are edging towards hunger point given that there is no flour to buy . " <p> Mahmoud wrote on : " I bought a sack of flour of 25kg for $120 and now the price has reached $200 . I had to buy it as my children started to complain they are hungry and ca n't feel full most of the time . Flour is such an essential food ingredient ... this is the toughest time since the genocide began . " <p> Palestinians in Gaza have been subjected to decades of displacement , occupation and blockade , violations to rights of peace , freedom and health , and omnipresent loss , grief and death . But this famine is unprecedented . <p> My friend Ola , a paediatrician now based in Atlanta , messaged this week too : " Hungry . I can never tolerate this . Never . This word should not be in our dictionary . Not the Gazans . " Making and sharing food in Gaza has always been precious , a symbol of generosity , normality , community and enduring connection of the past towards hope for a brighter future . <p> On a visit to Gaza in 2022 , Ola took me for a delicious seafood lunch at Roma restaurant , allowing me to share in her family 's favourite meal . We digested with a chatty walk by the Mediterranean . " Sometimes I take long walks on the beach , or I dance in my room . I want to shake it off , " she had said then about life in Gaza . <p> Roma 's last social media post -- a tantalising dish laden with spicy prawns , fish and calamari -- was on October 6 , 2023 , a day before the intensity of violence began and not long before the area was decimated to rubble . Ola does n't have a bedroom , a house or a garden in Gaza anymore , and her family -- separated all over the world -- have n't shared a meal for months . <p> On that same visit , our colleague Khamis , a neurorehabilitation and pain specialist , took my coworkers and me to the tastiest falafel restaurant in town . Here , the chefs tried to outdo each other on who could create the most entertaining face dish made from some combo of hummus cheeks , parsley hair , chickpea eyes and a sumac mouth . The sight earlier that day of a horse trotting down a bustling Salah al-Din Road held on a leash through a moving car window had Khamis guffawing into his hummus face . Salah al-Din Road , Gaza 's pulsing artery stretching 45km from north to south and one of the oldest roads in the world ( once traversed by Alexander the Great and Napoleon ) , has been reduced to dust and strewn with dead bodies through the present crisis . <p> My friend Mo , a doctor who now lives in a tent , cooks on a camp stove and works up to 24 hours a day in a Gazan field hospital , used to find beauty in writing poetry . On a previous visit in 2020 , he read me one of his poems on love and resistance from a tiny notebook he kept in his doctor 's desk . Afterwards , we shared mouth-wateringly good knafeh from Saqallah 's sweet shop , a kitchen baking Gaza 's signature dessert since 1896 . The entire Saqallah family of bakers was killed in the early days of this assault . <p> Mo made red wine and drank it with his close friends . Since 2006 , the production or consumption of alcohol in Gaza has been prohibited under Islamic law . " Wine was one of my secret , special rituals in Gaza , " Mo had told me . " It was intended to be for bringing back the original life , for enjoying life beyond limited boundaries , for sharing joy with special loved ones and friends ... Making our wine in Gaza was something different . " <p> Mo messaged me on WhatsApp last week : " I did n't tell you that when the Israeli army was at my apartment , the soldiers searched every inch of it and stole many dear belongings . I was so sad to see my bottles of wine empty on the kitchen bar after they drank it " . <p> After telling me of his heartbreak at the theft of his homemade wine , Mo continued his update in stanzas , <p> Despite known and beyond difficult conditions ... <p> I am still productive and helping people always and interacting with them on so many levels ... <p> I enjoy laughing , listening to music , watching movies and videos ( though charging devices is a big deal ) and cooking ( even with lacking food ) and I do daily life tasks patiently ... <p> I ignore missing and uncontrollable parts and embrace available good things . I cope in a good way without giving up ... <p> Our lives changed forever , but I still belong to my home here ... <p> They ca n't take everything . I will keep smiling and having high spirits . <p> *Name has been changed . <p> Share <h> About the Author <p> Dr Rachel Coghlan is a humanitarian and palliative care practitioner , researcher and advocate based in Melbourne . She is a Fulbright Scholar , a director of Palliative Care Australia , and a graduate of the Centre for Humanitarian Leadership , Deakin University . <h> Topics <p> Crikey encourages robust conversations on our website . However , we 're a small team , so sometimes we have to reluctantly turn comments off due to legal risk . You can read our moderation guidelines here . If you 'd like to share your thoughts on this story , you can email letters@crikey.com.au . Please include your full name to be considered for publication in our Your Say section . <p> Crikey is an independent Australian source for news , investigations , analysis and opinion focusing on politics , media , economics , health , international affairs , the climate , business , society and culture . We are guided by a deceptively simple , old idea : tell the truth and shame the devil .
