<h> Opinion <h> Netanyahu 's rebuke of Albanese is weak and unprovable but serves his purposes <h> Save articles for later <p> Add articles to your saved list and come back to them any time . <p> Advertisement <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's attempt to link the arson attack on a Melbourne synagogue to the Albanese government 's alleged " anti-Israel " stance at the United Nations may have befuddled some Australians , but his comments are about something bigger than the policies of federal government . <p> Emboldened by the re-election of Donald Trump and Israel 's recent battlefield successes , Netanyahu sees himself as a leader of the global populist right who is perhaps the ultimate defender of Israel against an international left that he portrays as hostile and complicit in antisemitism . <p> Benjamin Netanyahu 's office has strongly criticised the Albanese government over what Israel says is its lack of support.Credit : AP , Alex Ellinghausen <p> " Unfortunately , it is impossible to separate this reprehensible act from the extreme anti-Israeli position of the Labor government in Australia , " Netanyahu said , claiming " anti-Israel sentiment is antisemitism " . <p> This is effective , certainly with his base in Israel , but it is also toxic on two levels . First , Netanyahu is increasingly identifying Israel with the political space occupied not only by Trump , but also the likes of Hungary 's authoritarian prime minister , Viktor Orban . Second , by conflating all criticism of Israel with antisemitism -- a tactic that is far from being supported by most Jews -- he risks dragging diaspora Jews into Israel 's messes against their will , and verifying the antisemitic trope about Jewish dual loyalties . <p> Netanyahu 's rhetoric reflects the confidence of a leader who sees himself riding a wave of political momentum . Trump 's return to the political spotlight , alongside a resurgence of nationalist and right-wing populist leaders worldwide , has strengthened his belief that his hardline approach has vindicated him on the world stage . <p> For Netanyahu , this is not just about Israel ; it 's about leading a broader ideological battle against governments such as Australia 's , which he paints as not only an anti-Israel axis but part of a fundamentally anti-Western phenomenon -- a sort of clueless , woke Fifth Column . <p> Loading <p> Such governments tend to side with the Palestinians , and by framing that as evidence of hostility , Netanyahu aligns himself with the idea that Israel is under siege -- not just from Hamas or Iran , but from left-leaning Western governments that he sees as morally confused and dangerously naive . <p> Moreover , he is emboldened by domestic factors as well . Few believed Netanyahu would survive the debacle of October 7 , 2023 when Hamas managed to invade Israel , massacre 1200 people and kidnap about 250 . Yet somehow , his coalition has held together and Israel has scored some successes . <p> Advertisement <p> In Gaza , Israel has systematically dismantled Hamas 's military infrastructure , targeting and eliminating most of its senior leadership and drastically reducing the group 's military capabilities . This has effectively reduced Hamas from a powerful militant entity to an insurgent force , diminishing its ability to wage sustained large-scale attacks on Israel . <p> In Lebanon , the Israeli military has dealt a crippling blow to Hezbollah , neutralising much of its leadership and destroying most of its extensive rocket arsenal . These actions have reportedly paved the way for an agreement under which Hezbollah will retreat from the Israeli border , significantly reducing the immediate threat to northern Israel . <p> The weakening of Hezbollah also appears to have contributed to destabilisation of the Assad regime in Syria . <p> Iran , the primary sponsor of Hamas , Hezbollah and other anti-Israel proxies , has seemingly been deterred by these outcomes . The combined defeats of its allies in Gaza , Lebanon and Syria have weakened its regional influence and reduced its capacity to project power against Israel . <p> As with most populists , Netanyahu relies on at least some messages that are genuinely popular and have more than a grain of truth . Many Israelis do feel -- rightly -- ganged up on at international forums such as the United Nations , and misunderstood in their frontline stand against global jihadism . <p> Australia surely meant well voting in favour of a UN resolution calling Israel 's presence in the West Bank illegal , but it stepped into a political morass by doing so . The illegality claim is dubious , whereas the more compelling issue -- even for Israeli liberals -- is perhaps the occupation 's lack of wisdom ( and unfairness to the Palestinians ) . <p> Loading <p> Netanyahu 's claim that the Albanese government 's rhetoric could have inspired the arson attack on the Adass Israel synagogue is weak and unprovable , but it serves his purposes . It is also not entirely implausible ; it 's not inconceivable that governments criticising Israel might inadvertently embolden antisemitism . <p> But his confidence should not obscure the fact that Israel itself remains deeply divided over his leadership and policies . His hardline approach to the West Bank , his judicial overhaul and his combative diplomacy have sparked massive protests and alienated large segments of the Israeli population . Many Israelis reject the idea that criticising settlement policy or military actions is inherently anti-Israel . These domestic divisions complicate his claim to represent Israel on the world stage as a unified voice of resistance against an international left . Were an election held today , he would probably lose , and badly . <p> Dan Perry is a former chief editor of the Associated Press in Europe , Africa and the Middle East .
