Text ID: t032727
Group:   global_south_2024_12
File:    corpus/04_now_screened_iqr/global_south_2024_12/in/118777367.txt

Score (f7_pos): 2
Loading words (f7_pos), N=2: govt, resolution
<h> India votes for UN resolution on immediate Gaza ceasefire <p> India voted with 158 other countries at the UN General Assembly for resolutions demanding an immediate ceasefire in Gaza , the release of hostages , and access to humanitarian aid . The assembly also supported the UN agency for Palestine refugees ( UNRWA ) , despite Israel 's ban on its operations , urging Israel to respect international law and allow aid delivery . <p> India voted with 158 other countries at the UN General Assembly for resolutions demanding an immediate ceasefire in Gaza . <p> NEW DELHI : India was among the 158 countries that voted in favour of a resolution at the UNGA seeking immediate , unconditional and permanent ceasefire in Gaza Strip . Govt also backed another resolution expressing support for UNRWA , which too was adopted with overwhelming support . UNRWA is the UN agency for Palestine refugees that has been banned by Israel but continues to receive Indian aid.The 193-member General Assembly voted Wednesday at the 10th emergency special session to adopt the draft resolution - ' Demand for ceasefire in Gaza ' , introduced by Indonesia . India was among the 158 nations that voted in its favour , while nine member states , including Israel and the US , voted against it.Among the 13 nations that abstained were Albania and Ukraine . The resolution demanded an " immediate , unconditional and permanent ceasefire , to be respected by all parties , and further reiterates its demand for the immediate and unconditional release of all hostages " . It demanded that the parties fully , unconditionally and without delay implement all the provisions of the Security Council resolution of June 2024 regarding an " immediate ceasefire , the release of hostages , the exchange of Palestinian prisoners , the return of the remains of hostages who have been killed , the return of Palestinian civilians to their homes and neighbourhoods in all areas of Gaza , including in the north , and the full withdrawal of Israeli forces from Gaza " . <p> The resolution demanded immediate access by the civilian population in Gaza Strip to basic services and humanitarian assistance indispensable to its survival , while " rejecting any effort to starve Palestinians " . The second resolution , which was adopted with 159 votes in favour , deplored laws adopted by Israel 's Parliament on Oct 28 banning UNRWA 's activities in the Palestinian territories , a measure to take effect in 90 days . It reiterates UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres ' statements that UNRWA is " the backbone " of all humanitarian operations in Gaza and no organization can replace it . And it reaffirms the necessity for UNRWA 's continued " unimpeded operation " . <p> The resolution calls on the Israeli govt " to abide by its international obligations , respect the privileges and immunities of UNRWA " and uphold its responsibility to facilitate the unhindered delivery of aid humanitarian assistance throughout the entire Gaza Strip .
