@@52700304 <h> Palestine extends state of emergency <p> Palestine has extended its coronavirus-related state of emergency to prevent the spread of the new Covid-19 variants . <p> In a decree issued on Monday by President Mahmoud Abbas , the state of emergency was extended effective immediately so as to give the government enough power to combat the spread of the virus , reports Xinhua news agency . <p> The state of emergency was first issued in March last year after the discovery of the first cases of coronavirus in the Palestinian territories and has been extended or re-declared every month since then . <p> Meanwhile , Health Minister Mai al-Kaila told a news briefing that her Ministry has taken all possible measures to prevent the spread of the new coronavirus variants first detected in Brazil and India . <p> " The Ministry warns of the arrival of the new deadly variants of coronavirus , " al-Kaila said , calling on the Palestinians to abide by the necessary precautionary measures . <p> The Minister also noted there has been a significant drop in the number of Covid fatalities . <p> " We expect an improvement in the health situation in Palestine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been vaccinated , " al-Kaila said . <p> She added that Palestine is expected to receive a new batch of 500,000 doses of the Russian Sputnik V vaccine soon . <p> On Monday , the Health Ministry said that it recorded 565 new infections , 11 deaths and 779 recoveries in the past 24 hours . <p> Palestine 's overall caseload and death toll currently stand at 298,203 and 3,283 , respectively . <p> It also said over 258,065 people have received their first jabs of the Covid vaccine in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip , of whom 186,040 were administered the second doses . 
@@52713358 <p> This copy is for your personal non-commercial use only . To order presentation-ready copies of Toronto Star content for distribution to colleagues , clients or customers , or inquire about permissions/licensing , please go to : **27;1256;TOOLONG <p> Israeli police officers block a Palestinian demonstrator during a protest against the planned evictions of Palestinian families in the Sheikh Jarrah neighborhood of east Jerusalem , Saturday , May 8 , 2021 . <h> Beefed-up Israel police clash with Palestinians in Jerusalem <p> JA <p> By Josef Federman And Fares AkramThe Associated Press <p> Fri. , May 7 , 2021timer5 min. read <p> updateArticle was updated 1 hr ago <p> JERUSALEM - Israeli police on Saturday clashed with Palestinian protesters outside Jerusalem 's Old City during the holiest night of Ramadan in a show of force that threatened to deepen the holy city 's worst religious unrest in several years . Earlier , police blocked busloads of pilgrims headed to Jerusalem for prayer at Islam 's third holiest site . <p> Police defended their actions as security moves , but these were seen as provocations by Muslims who accuse Israel of threatening their freedom of worship . Competing claims to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Islam and Christianity , lie at the heart of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and have triggered serious violence in the past . <p> The unrest came a day after violence in which Palestinian medics said more than 200 Palestinians were wounded in clashes at the Al-Aqsa mosque compound and elsewhere in Jerusalem . Friday 's violence drew condemnations from Israel 's Arab allies and calls for calm from the United States and Europe and the United Nations . The Arab League scheduled an emergency meeting on Monday . <p> Early Sunday , the Israeli military said Palestinian militants in the Gaza Strip fired a rocket at the country 's south that fell in an open area . In response , aircraft struck a military post for Hamas , the militant group ruling the territory . There were no reports of casualties in either attack . <p> Police chief Koby Shabtai said he had deployed more police in Jerusalem following Friday night 's clashes , which left 18 police officers wounded . After weeks of nightly violence , Israelis and Palestinians were bracing for more conflict in the coming days . <p> @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disturbances will be met with force and zero tolerance . I call on everyone to act responsibly and with restraint , " Shabtai said . <p> Saturday night was " Laylat al-Qadr " or the " Night of Destiny , " the most sacred in the Muslim holy month of Ramadan . Islamic authorities estimated 90,000 people gathered for nighttime prayers at Al-Aqsa , the third-holiest site in Islam . <p> A large crowd of protesters chanted " God is great " outside the Old City 's Damascus Gate , and some pelted police with rocks and water bottles . Police patrols fired stun grenades as they moved through the area , and a police truck periodically fired a water cannon . <p> Palestinian medics said 64 Palestinians were wounded , mostly by rubber bullets , stun grenades or beatings , among them a woman whose face was bloodied . Eleven people were hospitalized , medics said . <p> One man with a small boy yelled at the police as they marched by . " You should be ashamed ! " he said . <p> Earlier , police reported clashes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nearby east Jerusalem neighbourhood of Sheikh Jarrah , where dozens of Palestinians are fighting attempts by Israeli settlers to evict them from their homes . Police reported several arrests , and said one officer was struck in the face with a rock . <p> Earlier Saturday , police stopped a convoy of buses that were filled with Arab citizens on the main highway heading to Jerusalem for Ramadan prayers . Israel 's public broadcaster Kan said police stopped the buses for a security check . <p> Muslims fast from dawn to dusk during Ramadan , and travellers , upset that they were stopped without explanation on a hot day , exited the buses and blocked the highway in protest . Kan showed footage of the protesters praying , chanting slogans and marching along the highway toward Jerusalem . The road was reopened several hours later . <p> Ibtasam Maraana , an Arab member of parliament , accused police of a " terrible attack " on freedom of religion . " Police : Remember that they are citizens , not enemies , " she wrote on Twitter . <p> The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ramadan three weeks ago when Israel restricted gatherings at a popular meeting spot outside Jerusalem 's Old City . Israel removed the restrictions , briefly calming the situation , but protests have reignited in recent days over the threatened evictions in east Jerusalem , which is claimed by both sides in their decades-old conflict . <p> Other recent developments also contributed to the tense atmosphere , including the postponement of Palestinian elections , deadly violence in which a Palestinian teenager , two Palestinian gunmen and a young Israeli man were killed in separate incidents in the West Bank , and the election to Israel 's parliament of a far-right Jewish nationalist party . <p> One right-wing lawmaker , Itamar Ben-Gvir , briefly set up an outdoor " office " in Sheikh Jarrah , near the homes of residents facing eviction . <p> On Sunday evening , Jewish Israelis begin marking " Jerusalem Day , " a national holiday in which Israel celebrates its annexation of east Jerusalem and religious nationalists hold parades and other celebrations in the city . On Monday , an Israeli court is expected to issue a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Israel captured east Jerusalem , along with the West Bank and Gaza -- territories the Palestinians want for their future state -- in the 1967 Mideast war . <p> Israel annexed east Jerusalem in a move not recognized internationally , and views the entire city as its capital . The Palestinians view east Jerusalem -- which includes major holy sites for Jews , Christians and Muslims -- as their capital , and its fate is one of the most sensitive issues in the conflict . <h> Loading ... <p> Loading ... Loading ... Loading ... Loading ... Loadi ... The Al-Aqsa mosque compound is the third holiest site in Islam . It is also the holiest site for Jews , who refer to it as the Temple Mount because it was the location of the biblical temples . It has long been a flashpoint in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . <p> In recent days , protests have grown over Israel 's threatened eviction in Sheikh Jarrah of dozens of Palestinians embroiled in a long legal battle with Israeli settlers trying to acquire property in the neighbourhood . <p> The United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ violence and the threatened evictions . The so-called Quartet of Mideast peace makers , which includes the U.S. , European Union , Russia and United Nations , also expressed concern . <p> Egypt and Jordan , which made peace with Israel decades ago , condemned Israel 's actions , as did the Gulf countries of Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates , two of the four Arab countries that signed U.S.-brokered normalization agreements with Israel last year . The UAE expressed " strong condemnation " of Israel 's storming of Al-Aqsa . <p> In a call to Palestine TV late Friday , President Mahmoud Abbas praised the " courageous stand " of the protesters and said Israel bore full responsibility for the violence . Abbas last week postponed planned parliamentary elections , citing Israeli restrictions in east Jerusalem for the delay . <p> Israel 's Foreign Ministry had earlier accused the Palestinians of seizing on the threatened evictions , which it described as a " real-estate dispute between private parties , " in order to incite violence . <p> Hamas , which rules the Gaza Strip and opposes Israel 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uprising . <p> Late Saturday , several dozen protesters gathered along Gaza 's volatile frontier with Israel , burning tires and throwing small explosives . Israeli forces fired tear gas at the crowd . No injuries were immediately reported . <p> In an interview with a Hamas-run TV station , the group 's top leader Ismail Haniyeh warned Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu not to " play with fire " in Jerusalem . <p> " Neither you , nor your army and police , can win this battle , " he said . <h> More from The Standard &amp; Partners <h> More News <h> Top Stories <p> Copyright owned or licensed by Toronto Star Newspapers Limited . All rights reserved . Republication or distribution of this content is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Toronto Star Newspapers Limited and/or its licensors . To order copies of Toronto Star articles , please go to : **27;1285;TOOLONG 
@@52720381 <p> Today 's Morning Brief is brought to you by Chartered Professional Accountants of Canada . Transitioning to a net-zero emission economy requires sustainable finance . Our policy brief looks at steps the federal government can take to enable a more sustainable and prosperous future . <p> -- Feds to unlock $740 million for airports : The federal government will offer $740 million in capital investments for airports over the next six years , higher than the $435 million previously announced in November . Nearly $500 million of the funding will go to large airports , with the rest earmarked for smaller airports . <p> -- Kady O'Malley looks ahead to the rest of the day in politics with iPolitics AM : " In what has quietly -- and unofficially -- become a standing Tuesday morning ritual , Prime Minister Justin Trudeau heads to the precinct to " address Canadians on the COVID-19 situation " before opening the floor for both pandemic- and non-pandemic-related questions from the assembled media . Joining him for the briefing session : Intergovernmental Affairs Minister Dominic LeBlanc ... as well as Chief Public Health Officer Theresa Tam and her deputy , Howard Njoo . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : The Commons special committee on Canada-China relations , which is investigating why two scientists were fired from Canada 's highest-security infectious-disease lab earlier this year , adopted a motion demanding unredacted copies of all PHAC records on the matter to be turned over within 10 days . If the Public Health Agency fails to deliver the information , the committee will send the matter to the House of Commons . <p> -- Israel bombs Gaza in response to Hamas rockets : At least 24 Palestinians , including nine children , have died amid Israeli airstrikes on the Gaza Strip . The bombs were in response to 200 rockets fired towards Jerusalem by Hamas , which had earlier set a deadline for Israeli forces to leave the Al-Aqsa Mosque . <p> More than 700 Palestinians were hurt in what are being reported as " clashes " with Israeli security forces in Jerusalem and the West Bank over the past day . Israeli police fired tear gas , stun grenades , and rubber bullets inside the mosque 's compound , where some Palestinians were praying and others were throwing stones . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . <p> -- School shooting in Russia : At least eight people have died after two gunmen opened fire this morning inside a school in Kazan , the capital of Russia 's Tatarstan region . The motive of the attack is not yet clear . <p> -- Pipeline hackers identified : The FBI confirmed the criminal syndicate DarkSide was responsible for the U.S. pipeline cyberattack . The group 's members are Russian speakers and its malware is coded not to attack Russian-language keyboards . But U.S. President Biden said there is , so far , no evidence to suggest the Russian government is involved . The group said on its dark web site that it is apolitical and only looking to make money . <p> Romania has set up a no-appointment-necessary COVID vaccination centre at the 14th-century Bran Castle in Transylvania . If that sounds familiar it 's because , yes , that is Dracula 's castle . <p> An added perk for those brave enough to get the shot : afterwards , you get a free tour of the castle 's medieval torture rooms . <h> More from iPolitics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personally responsible for the content that you publish and that iPolitics owns the copyright in the content that you submit . You also agree to comply with any specific rules posted on blogs or forums . Please see the Terms of Use for more details . 
@@52720412 <h> Chicken Flap <p> May 7 , 2021 , 12:21 p.m. *3 min read <p> Jonathon said he researched the RM 's bylaws , and his realtor also said that chickens were ok when they settled on moving to five acres at Hillside Estates in the RM of Longlaketon . The acreages at Hillside Estates are zoned country residential and sit along highway 20 between Craven and the Silton turnoff . <p> Jonathon grew up on a farm , so he was familiar with the country lifestyle . After the first year , they built a chicken coop starting with eight hens . Natalie is involved in the poultry 4-H program and has her own dedicated Facebook page to her flock . Amy has also volunteered to teach the program . The flock grew , and the Nernberg 's hatch their eggs . They currently have 19 hens , one rooster ( which is his daughter 's first pet -- a silkie ) and 20 chicks to trade with his brother . <p> The flap started after the Nernberg 's neighbour filed a complaint with the RM that their neighbour 's roosters were crowing , and because they were shift workers , it was disturbing their peace . Her letter indicates that she asked Nernberg to get rid of the roosters , which he declined , and then said that she believed after consulting the RM that the birds were n't permitted in their zoning area and the RM should have them removed altogether . <p> Nernberg said all of the area 's acreages had chickens at some point , including his neighbours who filed the complaint . <p> RM council started drafting a bylaw for livestock , including elements from other jurisdictions that already have a similar bylaw in place . The RM 's Chief Administrative Officer , Courtney Huber , said there had been two public meetings on the matter , and a third will take place on May 11th . <p> The RM sent the latest notice of the amendment to the bylaw via Canada Post to the affected parties , including Valley Ridge Acres , High Country Estates , Valley View Estates , Cummins Subdivision zoned as country residential 1 and 2 , as well as several other areas . <p> The notice indicates that " The proposed bylaw will include conditions to allow for the keeping of poultry and amend the maximum number of animals allowed in Country Residential District 1 ( CR1 ) and Country Residential District 2 ( CR2 ) to the following : Country Residential District 1 : - 2 horses and 10 hens/chickens ( 1.24 -- 8.65 acres ) Country Residential District 2 : - 2 horses and 10 hens/chickens ( 1.24-8.65 acres ) - 4 horses and 15 hens/chickens ( 8.65 acres or larger ) " <p> Under the new bylaw , roosters would be prohibited . CAO Huber said that " A lot of the comments that were received were making suggestions on the number of chickens allowed , distance of the coop from the property line , etc. which council has made all of those changes that individuals indicated . <p> There really were n't any letter or comments against the chickens , just on the number of chickens allowed and that no roosters be allowed . To date , everyone seems happy with allowing 10 or 15 chickens/hens . " <p> Nernberg 's letter to council says he is appreciative of their stance to allow the keeping of chickens but has asked the number be increased as it takes 25 hens in the winter to keep the coop warm . He also indicated that the rooster is only out during the day and makes no more noise than the hundreds of geese across the road . The Nernberg 's would like to keep one rooster for breeding purposes and noted that when hatching eggs , they do n't know if they are hens or roosters and will grow the roosters out to butcher . They are considering a petition to council on the matter . <p> Jennifer Argue , Local Journalism Initiative Reporter , Last Mountain Times <h> Latest Stories <p> NEW DELHI ( AP ) -- Scores of dead bodies have been found floating down the Ganges River in eastern India as the country battles a ferocious surge in coronavirus infections . Authorities said Tuesday they have n't yet determined the cause of death . Health officials working through the night Monday retrieved 71 bodies , officials in Bihar state said . Images on social media of the bodies floating in the river prompted outrage and speculation that they died from COVID-19 . Authorities performed post mortems on Tuesday but said they could not confirm the cause of death due to the decomposition of the bodies . More corpses were found floating in the river on Tuesday , washing up in Ghazipur district in neighboring Uttar Pradesh state . Police and villagers were at the site , about 50 kilometers ( 30 miles ) from Monday 's incident . " We are trying to find out where did these dead bodies come from ? How did they get here ? " said Mangla Prasad Singh , a local official . Surinder , a resident of Ghazipur who uses one name , said villagers did n't have enough wood to cremate their dead on land . " Due to the shortage of wood , the dead are being buried in the water , " he said . " Bodies from around 12-13 villages have been buried in the water . " Bihar and Uttar Pradesh are experiencing rising COVID-19 cases as infections in India grow faster than anywhere else in the world . On Tuesday , the country confirmed nearly 390,000 new cases , including 3,876 more deaths . Overall , India has had the second highest number of confirmed cases after the U.S. with nearly 23 million and over 240,000 deaths . All of the figures are almost certainly a vast undercount , experts say . The Associated Press <p> TORONTO -- The Toronto Zoo says an endangered tiger cub born just over a week ago has died after experiencing serious health issues . The zoo says in a Facebook post that the Amur tiger cub , one of three born on April 30 , was euthanized Sunday evening . It says the decision was made after the cub 's health deteriorated despite days of critical care by veterinarians . The zoo says the male cub started looking lethargic last Friday , and tests eventually showed it had severe liver damage and life-threatening electrolyte imbalances . The organization says an autopsy has since confirmed the liver damage and indicated the cub was not properly digesting milk . It says the two other cubs appear to be doing well and continue to be monitored by zoo staff . The cubs were born after their mother , an Amur tiger nicknamed Mazzy , was paired with the male tiger Vasili through a program meant to promote conservation . This report by The Canadian Press was first published May 11 , 2021 . The Canadian Press <p> Health Minister Paul Merriman recently challenged Saskatchewan millennials to match the high COVID-19 vaccination numbers recorded so far among the province 's older populations . Like the cool kids say : Challenge accepted . Statistics reported daily by the Ministry of Health show Saskatchewan residents in their 30s are taking their first doses at a rapid clip . As of May 9 , just over a quarter of Saskatchewan residents aged 30 to 39 -- or 27 per cent of the province 's estimated 183,246 thirtysomethings -- had received their first dose of vaccine . That level of vaccination , among one of the province 's largest age populations , was reached only six days after the first chunk of the 30s cohort , people aged 37 to 39 , were allowed to book vaccine appointments starting on May 4 -- aside from any young workers or vulnerable people offered early doses , that is . In the days since , eligibility has opened up to people aged 32 to 36 . But the 27-per-cent vaccination level reported Monday was reached even though remaining cohort members aged 30 and 31 only became eligible on Monday morning and therefore did not factor into those latest vaccine takeup numbers . ( Government of Saskatchewan ) What 's more , Saskatchewan residents in their 30s reached the benchmark of one quarter of their population receiving one dose more quickly than either people in their 40s or 50s . By comparison , one quarter of fortysomethings were vaccinated with a single dose as of April 28 -- 13 days after the first segment of that group , people aged 48 and 49 , could book an appointment . Meanwhile , 26 per cent of Saskatchewan people in their fifties had been inoculated once against COVID-19 as of April 12 -- 11 days after the first segment of that group , people aged 58 and 59 , became eligible for vaccination . Seniors prioritized in rollout Data on when people in their 60s reached the 25-per-cent first-dose level was not available at the time due to an update in the province 's reporting systems , according to the ministry . Exactly when people in their 70s and 80s hit that goal is also unclear because the ministry 's table on vaccine uptake did not become a staple of its daily reporting until late March , by which point the vaccination of Saskatchewan 's seniors was well underway . However , by March 23 , 30 per cent of Saskatchewan residents in their 70s had received one dose of COVID-19 vaccine . That 's 11 days after the first segment of people in that age group , people 76 and older , became eligible . Many caveats should be noted when comparing vaccine take up between age groups , not the least of which is vaccine supply , which has ebbed and flowed at various points in Saskatchewan 's vaccine rollout but increased considerably as of last week . More location options , including drive-thrus and pharmacies , have launched since the early days of the vaccine rollout . Also worth considering is that young prioritized health care workers may have been vaccinated early . On the other hand , seniors and others living in care homes were also among those prioritized for early vaccination ahead of younger portions of the general population and had vaccine clinics come to them , as opposed to having to travel to a clinic or drive-thru . As of Sunday , 88 per cent of Saskatchewan seniors aged 80 and over had received one dose -- the highest uptake rate of any age group . Initially , the Ministry of Health reported separately on vaccine levels among care home residents and seniors living independently . Now all seniors are simply recorded in the same age categories , regardless of whether they were inoculated while in a care home or not . Merriman , the health minister , expressed hope late last week that the strong vaccination numbers among seniors would be bested by younger generations . " It 'd be very interesting to see if the millennials could take up that challenge , " Merriman said . " They seem to be very interested in challenges these days . It seems to be the trending thing online . " For more stories of vaccinated Saskatchewan thirtysomethings , click here . <p> COLORADO SPRINGS , Colo . ( AP ) -- A man who fatally shot six people at a Colorado birthday party before killing himself was upset after not being invited to the weekend gathering thrown by his girlfriend 's family , police said Tuesday , calling the shooting an act of domestic violence . The shooter , 28-year-old Teodoro Macias , had been in a relationship with one of the victims , 28-year-old Sandra Ibarra , for about a year and had a history of controlling and jealous behavior , Colorado Springs police Lt. Joe Frabbiele said at a news conference . Police said there were no reported incidents of domestic violence during the relationship and that the shooter did n't have a criminal history . No protective orders were in place . " At the core of this horrific act is domestic violence , " Police Chief Vince Niski said , adding that the gunman had " displayed power and control issues " in the relationship . About a week before the shooting , there was another family gathering where there " was some sort of conflict " between the family and Macias , Niski said . The other victims of the shooting early Sunday were Ibarra 's extended family . They were identified as Melvin Perez , 30 ; Mayra Ibarra de Perez , 33 ; Joana Cruz , 52 ; Jose Gutierrez , 21 ; and Jose Ibarra , 26 . Investigators do n't know yet how the shooter got the weapon , which Frabbiele described as a Smith &amp; Wesson handgun . He said it was originally purchased by someone else in 2014 at a local gun store but was not reported stolen . The gunman had two 15-round magazines , one of which was empty , and police recovered 17 spent shells at the scene . The shooting occurred at a home in the Canterbury Mobile Home Park on the east side of Colorado 's second-largest city . Three children at the party , ages 2 , 5 and 11 , were not hurt . Two families were celebrating the birthdays of family members , and 10 people were inside the home when the gunman arrived " and shot all six victims in quick succession " before turning the gun on himself , Frabbiele said . The children inside were in " close proximity " to the shots fired , he said . Police received the first of three 911 calls from inside the home . Another was made by an adult who managed to escape . Three teenagers had left the party just before the shooting , Frabbiele said . They returned shortly after to discover what happened . Arriving officers found Jose Gutierrez gravely wounded inside ; he told the officers the suspect was in the home , Frabbiele said . Gutierrez died later at a hospital . " One of the smaller children and some of the teenagers lost both parents , " Frabbiele said . Police say the families of the victims had requested privacy . " In Colorado , we 've had domestic terrorism incidents where lots of people were killed , we 've had random acts like going into a King Soopers or a movie theater , but let 's not forget about the lethality of domestic violence , " Colorado Springs Mayor John Suthers said . Suthers was referring to a March 22 attack on a King Soopers supermarket in Boulder , Colorado , that killed 10 people , including a police officer , and a 2012 shooting at a movie theater in the Denver suburb of Aurora that killed 12 and injured 70 . " What we have here is a situation where all these people were together and ( we ) apparently had the anger directed at the adults and his partner . And the tragic consequences are unfathomable . We 've got children orphaned by this situation , " Suthers said . Gladis Bustos , who lives three homes away , had tearfully identified the home 's owner as Joana on Monday . Bustos called her a warmhearted , hardworking person who always took the time to say hello to her neighbors and brag about her children . Colorado Springs police say eight of 15 homicides this year , including Sunday 's victims , were related to domestic violence . Last year , nine of 39 homicides were tied to domestic violence . The weekend attack follows a series of mass shootings -- defined as four or more dead , not including the shooter -- to plague the U.S. this year . Before the Colorado Springs shooting , a database compiled by The Associated Press , USA Today and Northeastern University showed there had been at least 11 mass shootings since Jan. 1 , compared with just two public mass shootings in 2020 . After the Boulder shooting , Colorado lawmakers introduced a bill to create a state Office of Gun Violence Prevention to educate residents about gun safety and collect data on Colorado gun violence . Other bills advancing through the Democratic-led Legislature would tighten background checks , allow municipalities greater freedom to adopt gun control laws that are stricter than state law , and require a person facing a protection order related to domestic violence to report what firearms they possess . Associated Press writers James Anderson and Patty Nieberg in Denver contributed to this report . This story has been corrected to show that Colorado Springs police Lt. Joe Frabbiele 's last name was misspelled and that one of the children at the party , as well as some teenagers , were orphaned , not that all of the children were orphaned . Thomas Peipert , The Associated Press <p> ROME ( AP ) -- Pope Francis on Tuesday formally created a new lay ministry to encourage greater participation of secular women and men in the teaching of the Catholic faith , especially in places where priests are in short supply . The new law creating the lay ministry of catechists officially recognizes for the universal Catholic Church a practice that has been used for centuries in local dioceses , and goes out of its way to emphasize women 's participation in it . In many parts of the world , lay men and women introduce people to the Catholic faith , educate them on receiving the initial sacraments of baptism and Communion and accompany them in their faith journey . Soon , the Vatican 's liturgy office will publish a specific rite of installation to be used around the world when these lay catechists formally begin their ministry . Individual bishops conferences are being asked to develop guidelines to train them . It 's the latest reform by Francis to address longstanding complaints that lay people -- and specifically women -- have been shut out of all levels of church decision-making , governance and participation in favor of the all-male clerical class of priests , bishops and cardinals . Earlier this year Francis issued another law decreeing that women can be installed in the lay ministries of lectors , to read Scripture , and acolytes to serve on the altar as eucharistic ministers . Such roles had been officially reserved to men even though exceptions were made . Francis has firmly upheld Catholic doctrine that women can not be ordained priests . He remains under pressure , however , to allow women to be deacons -- ministers who perform many of the same functions as priests , such as presiding at weddings , baptisms and funerals . Currently , the ministry is reserved for men even though historians say the ministry was performed by women in the early church . The head of the Vatican 's evangelization office , Monsignor Rino Fisichella , denied that Francis ' new lay ministries were a substitute for a possible female diaconate . He told reporters Tuesday that " each ministry has its uniqueness " with the lay faithful called to different ones . The Women 's Ordination Conference , which advocates for women priests , welcomed the new law as a long overdue affirmation of the " authentic vocational calls many women experience and the unique ways women enrich the church . " While repeating its call for the inclusion of women in ordained ministries of deacon and priest , it said the new law was evidence that " glacially , the Vatican is beginning to open its eyes to the possibility that women might be equal collaborators in faith . " In the new law , Francis recalled that throughout the history of the church , lay catechists have been fundamental in spreading the faith , particularly in mission territories . Nicole Winfield , The Associated Press <p> The Higgs government is cutting income taxes to offset the impact of carbon taxes on the majority of New Brunswickers . Finance Minister Ernie Steeves introduced legislation Tuesday that would lower the tax rate on the lower income bracket from 9.68 per cent to 9.4 per cent , a rate that applies to the first $43,835 of income . The tax cut accounts for $28 million of the $163 million in carbon tax revenue the province will collect this year under a pricing system it adopted to comply with the federal government 's requirements . " It is anticipated to benefit over 420,000 taxpayers , putting money back in the pockets of the taxpayers , " Steeves said , as he introduced the bill . The Progressive Conservatives had faced calls to use the revenue on climate fund projects . Tax cut ' a sensible approach ' But returning the money to New Brunswickers falls in line with calls by many economists and environmentalists . " It 's a sensible approach , " said University of Ottawa economist Nic Rivers , an expert on carbon pricing , who said it creates a disincentive to burn fossil fuels while giving people more money to stimulate the economy . Nic Rivers , an economist at the University of Ottawa , commended the province 's tax cut in the context of offsetting the carbon tax . ( Nicholas Rivers ) " This is ' tax what you burn , not what you earn , ' " Rivers said . Premier Blaine Higgs said it was always the goal of the federal plan to have at least a portion of carbon tax revenue refunded to consumers . " That was kind of the principle , and that 's why we did it , " he said . In provinces that have refused to adopt carbon prices , Ottawa is applying the tax and is sending people rebates . The national climate plan requires provinces to tax greenhouse gas emissions at $40 per tonne this year , which translates into 8.8 cents per litre of gasoline . Last year Higgs opted to slash the provincial gas excise tax to partially offset the carbon tax . But this year , rather than slash it even more -- an approach Ottawa frowns on -- he said he wanted to find another way to return some of the money to New Brunswickers . Use extra revenue to further reduce emissions , says opposition Opposition Liberal Leader Roger Melanson said he calculated the tax cut would work out to $68 per person per year . " It 's not significant when you stop and do the math . " Melanson said he 'd rather see the $28 million used to pay for more government programs to reduce emissions . Opposition Liberal leader Roger Melanson says he wants to see the $28 million earned from income tax cuts used to fund programs to reduce emissions . ( CBC News ) Higgs said Melanson 's per-person math " would n't be far off , " but he said the reduction is an important signal the province wants lower taxes . " This is a start to continue the momentum that we 're feeling right now in our province , the people who want to live here , who want to work here , " he said . But he ruled out using the entire $163 million in carbon tax revenue for a much larger income tax cut . " There 's a balance here , " he said . The income tax cut only accounts for a small portion of the total carbon tax revenue this year , and $36 million will still be devoted to climate change projects , about the same as last year . Ottawa requires the carbon tax to increase each year , and the premier said he could lower income taxes further each year in tandem with carbon price hikes . " I 'd like to say yes , " he said . " A tax reduction is as good as a wage increase . " Steeves 's bill also raises the low-income tax threshold to $17,840 from $17,630 . People below that threshold pay no provincial income tax . <p> The final chapter of a land claim dating back more than 100 years has finally been closed . On Monday , the Mosquito-Grizzly Bear 's Head-Lean Man First Nation announced a final settlement with the federal government for $141 million , plus interest . In January , the Specific Land Claims Tribunal gave the First Nation a $121 million settlement , acknowledging that the surrender of the land was invalid and that the Crown had breached its duties to the First Nation . The increase in the settlement money came from the passage of time since the land was appraised in 2017 , as well as loss of use stemming from the time of the appraisal . The settlement came after decades of advocacy by the First Nation 's members over 5,800 hectares of reserve land taken by the federal government in the Battlefords area in 1905 . " The award of $141 million is a huge success for the Mosquito-Grizzly Bear 's Head and Lean Man First Nation , " read a statement from Chief Tanya Aguilar-Antiman . " Our people have been seeking a fair and just settlement for the unlawful taking of our lands for more than 26 years . " The land claim was started back in the 1990s and the First Nation spent decades negotiating with the government . " Although the facts in this claim were egregious , the Chief and Council are proud that Canada and the First Nation have taken a meaningful step toward reconciliation , as reflected in the agreement of the parties , " said Chief Aguilar-Antiman . <p> A New Brunswick mom whose seven-year-old was hospitalized after eating what he thought were Oreo cookies is calling for a crackdown on cannabis-product packaging . Tobi Russo , who lives on Eel Ground First Nation southwest of Miramichi and is recovering from surgery , says she was having a rest on the couch Saturday morning when her youngest son , Moises , came upstairs to tell her he was n't feeling well . Russo said it was plain to see he was in distress -- his pupils were dilated and he was having heart palpitations -- and she asked him what had happened . He told her he 'd eaten some cookies , and she asked him to bring her the package . Russo was astonished : the packaging looked strikingly similar to the packaging for Oreo cookies , right down to the distinctive shiny blue cellophane wrap , and the font on the image of a chocolate creme cookie against a splash of white cream in the background . Except that they were in fact Stoneo cookies , by " Dabisco , " which is not a legal product , and contained a total of 500 mg of THC . For comparison , a typical legal edibles product for sale at Cannabis NB contains between 2.5 and 10 mg of THC . Moises had eaten both of the cookies in the package . Alarmed , Russo called the poison control line and an ambulance . Moises was taken to Miramichi Regional Hospital , where he was diagnosed with an overdose and was hospitalized and monitored for 24 hours . He 's home now and safe , and is not expected to have any long-term health issues because of the incident , but it has left Russo badly shaken . Stoneo cannabis cookies are sold in packaging that is almost identical to Oreo cookies packaging . ( Weed Deals ) Cookies brought into home without her knowledge Russo said she had no idea the cookies had been brought into the house . " I live a drug- and alcohol-free life , " said Russo , who has worked as an addictions counsellor . " If I would have known they were in the house , I would have destroyed them . " There are adult relatives and four children , including teenagers , in the house , and there are friends who come and go , Russo said . She is quick to point out that she is n't trying to spark a " witch hunt " in her household or in her community . If anything , she said , she blames herself . " I am his mother and I 'm responsible for what comes into this house , " Russo said . Her real beef is with the companies that appear to directly target children with packaging that is dangerously similar to that of products they love . Stoneo cookies , by Canadian online dispensary Weed Deals , are just one example . There are Stoner Patch Kidz gummies , whose packaging mimics the distinctive packaging of Sour Patch Kids gummy candies , Fruit Gushers medicated gummies , Nerds Rope candy , and others . All of them mimic the original candies , from the packaging colour to the font to the graphic design . Oreo brand tries to stop ' misappropriation ' " These big corporations should have a responsibility to not make it so inviting " to children , Russo said . " Adults would buy these products whether they had fancy packaging or not , they would buy it for the effect , so there 's really no need to make it look all fun and fanciful . " CBC News has reached out to Weed Deals , which sells the Stoneo cookies and other edibles , but did not immediately receive a response . On Tuesday , Mondelez International , which owns Oreo and many other snack brands , said in a statement that it takes the misuse of its products and brands seriously and " will act as necessary to protect consumers from actions that misrepresent " them . " In this case , the misappropriation of our OREO name and our packaging to sell THC-containing products is particularly troubling as the use of our designs may make the products more attractive and appealing to children , " the statement said . " While we have reported the misuse to various agencies globally , we feel strongly about taking action to defend the OREO brand and to prevent its use by third parties to sell unregulated and infringing products . ... Our products are safe to consume . " Oreo cookies packaging . ( Mondelez International ) First Nation dispensary drops products The sale of cannabis in Canada has had some grey areas from the start . While Cannabis NB is the only legal retailer of cannabis in New Brunswick , First Nations leaders have argued that their communities were n't consulted when the Cannabis Act was being established , and that they do in fact have the right to sell cannabis in their own territories . Federal cannabis laws will come up for a three-year review this fall , giving First Nations an opportunity to make a new deal with the Canadian government that would allow them to sell legally . Cannabis NB does not sell Stoneo or other edibles that do not conform to Health Canada 's quality control standards and guidelines , including packaging and THC levels . But such products are available online and at some dispensaries throughout the province , including some First Nation dispensaries , and calls for something to be done about their packaging are mounting . On Monday night , the co-owner of a cannabis dispensary on the Eel Ground First Nation , also known as Natoaganeg , posted a statement on Facebook announcing it will be dropping all products that employ the brand-mimicking tactic in the wake of Moises ' accidental overdose . Although we may not be able to convince a company to alter their marketing strategies , we can make a difference by choosing not to offer these products in our store . - Devin Ward , co-owner of Lefty 's Canna dispensary Lefty 's Canna did not sell the Stoneo product in question , Devin Ward noted in his statement . However , he said , distributors have a responsibility to ensure that " incidents like the one this past weekend are avoided . " " Ultimately , we are a collection of families that operates Lefty 's . We have kids of our own and really sympathize with this unfortunate situation , " he said in the statement . " Although we may not be able to convince a company to alter their marketing strategies , we can make a difference by choosing not to offer these products in our store . " In an interview Monday night , Ward , himself a father of young boys , explained that Moises ' hospital scare " hit close to home . " " Moises is the same age as my son , they were in kindergarten together a few years ago . We know them on a personal level , so it was upsetting , " he said . Devin Ward , with wife Kayla and their sons , Dexter , left , and Jackson . Ward co-owns a dispensary on the Eel Ground First Nation and said Monday night that the dispensary will be dropping all products whose packaging mimics brands known to children . ( Submitted by Devin Ward ) Public Health to discuss incident with Health Canada In an email Tuesday , New Brunswick 's Public Health department said it was not aware of the packaging , but now plans to share the information with Health Canada . " We will share with Health Canada colleagues for followup as they are responsible for packaging , " department spokesperson Bruce Macfarlane said . He noted individuals can also report concerns to Health Canada , via the Cannabis Reporting Form section on Health Canada 's website . Health Canada said Monday that it is looking into the matter . MLA commends Russo for coming forward Michelle Conroy , the People 's Alliance MLA for Miramichi , also knows Russo and Moises . On Monday , Conroy called Moises ' close call " horrifying , " and questioned how companies can be allowed to blatantly target children in their marketing of adult products . " We 've been seeing posts about Doritos bags , candies and gummies , all of which are pointed towards children 's treats . ... it 's very concerning . " Conroy praised Russo for sharing her story , knowing that she would face online trolling and posting hurtful comments . " I really commend her for having the bravery to come forward because it will bring a lot of awareness to people who have no idea this is even happening , " Conroy said . " I have two teenage boys here and you never know who 's coming and going half the time , they 're in the basement , they 're bringing in treats and snacks ... it can easily happen . " Conroy said she 'd like to see " stronger rules " around the packaging of such products , similar to the rules around cigarettes , and plans to look into the matter further . " It 's really alarming that this can be done on any level , " she said . " I do n't think they should be able to do this at all . " <p> A shutdown of the Windsor Assembly Plant that started in late March has been extended once again . The Stellantis factory is one of many in the auto sector affected by a global shortage of semiconductors , which are used in electronics . Other automakers , such as Ford and General Motors , have slashed production . The plant , which produces minivans including the Chrysler Pacifica , Voyager and Grand Caravan , was slated to be closed for a four-week period starting on March 29 . The reopening has been delayed several times . On Monday , Unifor Local 444 said the plant will be closed for the week of May 17 . " The company has informed the Union that the Windsor Assembly Plant will be down the week of May 17th , " the union said in a social media post . A spokesperson for Stellantis confirmed the plant will be shut down next week because of the " unprecedented global microchip shortage . " " Stellantis continues to work closely with our suppliers to mitigate the manufacturing impacts caused by the various supply chain issues facing our industry , " spokesperson LouAnn Gosselin said in a statement . The auto company , formerly known as Fiat Chrysler , employs roughly 5,000 people at the Windsor Assembly Plant . The factory has been shuttered twice this year because of the semiconductor shortage . In February , production was halted for three weeks . During the plant 's downtime , workers are eligible to receive Employment Insurance benefits , and some get a union-negotiated top up that brings their wages up to about 80 per cent of their regular earnings . Nick Dimitriou , who has been an employee for 26 years , said he 's lucky to get that supplement . But he worries about those who are not eligible , including some junior workers . " Those that do n't have that negotiated into their contracts , my heart goes out to them and it is a struggle , " he said . He said he 's been helping out family and his community during the extended downtime . " You try to keep busy . You got ta stay healthy , right ? " he said . <p> BELFAST ( Reuters ) -British soldiers unjustifiably shot or used disproportionate force in the deaths of nine of the 10 innocent people killed in a 1971 incident in Belfast that sparked an upsurge of violence during Northern Ireland 's " Troubles , " a judge-led inquiry found . A Catholic priest and a mother of eight who served soldiers tea were among the victims in an event Irish Foreign Minister Simon Coveney described on Tuesday as " one of the most tragic days " of Northern Ireland 's three decades of bloodshed . Judge Siobhan Keegan delivered her findings to applause from families of the victims shortly after the British government announced it would introduce legislation to give greater protection to former soldiers who served in Northern Ireland , plans Dublin and many in Belfast fiercely oppose . <p> A woman who says she was sexually assaulted by a man she met online told a Charlottetown jury on Tuesday that she felt shocked and violated by what happened . Stephanie Douglas was testifying at the Supreme Court of Prince Edward Island trial of the accused man . He is Edward Thomas Mundle , 58 . The Charlottetown man has pleaded not guilty to the single charge of sexual assault . Douglas 's name is not covered by a publication ban , as is usually the case in Canadian sexual assault trials , because she has told the Crown she wants people to hear what she has to say . Consensual relationship began in 2013 On Tuesday , Douglas testified that she had been in " a no-strings-attached relationship " with Mundle after they met on the dating website Plenty of Fish in 2013 . This photo shows Stephanie Douglas in 2013 , the year she met Edward Mundle through the dating website Plenty of Fish . ( Court exhibit ) That relationship included sex with dominant and submissive role-playing , both sides agree . " It was consensual so I had no issues with it , " Douglas testified about those early dates . Yet Douglas told the court she did not give her consent for what she alleges happened to her in the early hours of New Year 's Day , 2014 . It was more painful than trying to give birth . It was the most physical pain I had been subject to up to that point in my life . - Stephanie Douglas She testified that Mundle disregarded their pre-arranged safe word , " Rumpelstiltskin , " and sexually assaulted her using a handheld sex toy . " All I felt was excruciating pain , " she said in court . " It was more painful than trying to give birth . It was the most physical pain I had been subject to up to that point in my life . " Douglas said she could n't at first process what had happened , as she 'd been drinking rum : " I did n't have the capacity to think clearly . " More than a week after the incident , she said , having experienced bleeding , fever and chills , she called for an ambulance . She was taken to Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Charlottetown and spent three weeks there . She testified that the diagnosis was life-threatening sepsis , a severe type of bacterial infection . " I walk with a cane now , " she said . " Back in 2013 I did not . I was quite active ... I did not have chronic pain , PTSD , liver damage or kidney decline . " Reliability , cause of infection disputed Mundle 's lawyer 's cross-examination is focusing on the reliability of Douglas 's version of events -- and the cause of her infection . Defence lawyer Peter Ghiz is pointing to hundreds of pages of medical records that he says suggest Douglas was dealing with psychiatric issues at the time of the incident , and for years leading up to it . Edward Thomas Mundle , 58 , has pleaded not guilty to the charge of sexual assault against Stephanie Douglas . ( Brian Higgins/CBC ) On Tuesday afternoon , he cross-examined her about a diagnosis of PTSD in British Columbia in 2016 , and her treatment by a psychiatrist in Halifax before she moved to P.E.I. for the second time in 2013 . He also asked about prescription medications she had taken . Then he moved on to questions about the sex toy she said had been used to assault her . Douglas acknowledged it was hers . She said she took it home with her after the New Year 's Day incident and threw it away years later . Complaint laid in 2017 Douglas told the court that she wrestled for a long time with the pros and cons of going to police , not sure they would believe she was assaulted . She finally laid a complaint in 2017 , about three years after the alleged incident . Mundle elected trial by judge and jury , so a panel of four women and eight men is hearing the case . Proceedings resume on Wednesday . More from CBC P.E.I. <p> A Canada-wide warrant has been issued for a suspect in a stabbing death in downtown Calgary last month . Police said the victim , who was identified by police as Russell David Younker , 49 , was stabbed on April 15 during a fight on 11th Street S.W. near the Downtown West-Kerby CTrain station . Younker collapsed at the scene while the attacker ran away . Younker later died in hospital . Police believe the victim and the accused knew each other , and the altercation resulted from a previous incident that occurred between them . Christopher Douglas Mathers , 34 , was identified as a suspect because of a tip provided by a member of the public , police said Tuesday . Upon attempting to locate Mathers , investigators said they learned he had moved out of his house and had potentially left Calgary . Mathers is believed to have connections to British Columbia , Halifax and London , Ont . A warrant has now been issued for Mathers . He faces a second-degree murder charge . Police describe him as six-foot-one , about 220 pounds and having brown hair and blue eyes . Investigators are still hoping to speak with a potential witness . ( Calgary Police Service ) Investigators are still hoping to speak with a potential witness . The witness was seen wearing a blue hoodie with a red logo on the front , a baseball cap , sunglasses and a backpack . Anyone with information on the whereabouts of Mathers is asked to call the homicide tip line at 403-428-8877 , or the Calgary Police Service non-emergency line at 403-266-1234 . <p> B.C. health officials announced 515 new cases of COVID-19 and two more deaths on Tuesday , marking a steady downward trend in the province 's caseload . In a written statement , Provincial Health Officer Dr. Bonnie Henry and Health Minister Adrian Dix said there are currently 6,020 active cases of people infected with the novel coronavirus in B.C. -- the lowest number of active cases the province has seen since March 25 . A total of 426 people are in hospital with COVID-19 , including 141 who are in intensive care . Overall hospitalizations , which typically lag behind spikes and dips in new cases , are down by 12 per cent from last Tuesday when 486 people were in hospital with the disease . The number of patients in intensive care is down by about 18 per cent from 173 a week ago . The seven-day rolling average of new cases also continues to trend downward , hitting its lowest level since March 22 . The provincial test positivity rate has also fallen from a high of about 11 per cent in early April to just over seven per cent . Meanwhile , Monday set a new high for the number of people getting shots in B.C. , with 60,483 jabs recorded . So far , 2,219,856 doses of COVID-19 vaccine have been administered , including 110,516 second doses . " The number of people protected with a COVID-19 vaccine is going up every day , and the number of people requiring care in hospital is trending down . This is what we want to see and what we want to keep going , " Henry and Dix said in Tuesday 's statement . " We are calling on every adult in our province to join our efforts and register for your vaccine today . Last week , almost 400,000 people registered for their vaccine . We can break that record this week . " The provincial death toll from the disease is now 1,624 lives lost out of 136,623 confirmed cases to date . Public health orders and sick days Also on Tuesday , the provincial government announced yet another extension of the state of emergency related to the pandemic , which will remain in place until at least May 25 . B.C. has been in a state of emergency since March 18 , 2020 . " Most British Columbians have been doing their part to stay close to home and follow public health guidance , and that commitment is showing as the number of cases and hospitalizations begin to ease , " Minister of Public Safety and Solicitor General Mike Farnworth said in a statement . " But we 're not through this yet , and everyone must continue to follow the rules or face enforcement . More importantly , by following orders for the next while and avoiding non-essential travel , you 'll be doing your part to get us all through this sooner . " On Tuesday morning , the provincial government announced it is going to start giving all workers in the province up to three days of paid sick leave if they have to miss work due to COVID-19 . A statement said employers will be required to pay workers their full wages . For employers without an existing sick-leave program , the government has promised to reimburse up to $200 a day for each absent worker . Currently , anyone 18 and older in British Columbia can register for their vaccination if they have not already done so . This can be done online through the " Get Vaccinated " portal , by calling 1-833-838-2323 , or in person at any Service B.C. location . People who are pregnant and front-line workers are also being prioritized . British Columbians continue to remain under restrictions to curtail the spread of the virus . Non-essential travel is not permitted between three regional zones , defined by health authority boundaries , until after the May long weekend . Violators can face a fine of $575 . <p> With record numbers of COVID-19 patients in Nova Scotia , a team at Nova Scotia Health has been working around the clock to fine-tune a program that will monitor those who are sick at home . It 's a system they believe is the only one of its kind in the country -- and it 's why the health authority has been pleading with those who are waiting for test results to answer their phones . Dr. Ashley Miller , the chief medical information officer for the province , and Graeme Kohler , the director of primary health care in the northern zone , came up with COVID Community Virtual Care during the first wave . Aggressive variants have put new pressure on their ability to stay in contact with hundreds of people at a time as the province grapples to contain the coronavirus . " We 're actually looking to intervene quicker because we do n't want people to be at home , unwell , and missing the window of opportunity to be treated in the hospital , " said Miller . The nasopharyngeal test to detect COVID-19 involves inserting a swab into the nasal cavity . ( Lisa Maree Williams/Getty Images ) So what happens if you test positive in Nova Scotia ? It starts with that phone call . On the other line is a physician or clinician who will deliver the test results , and then do an immediate assessment on the patient . They 'll ask about any other medical conditions , and flag any high-risk people to a separate group that will be monitored closely . Miller said she has made many of those phone calls herself . Many express fear , but Miller said she tries to ease their concerns . " I will say overwhelmingly that people have communicated to us that they feel reassured that they 're hearing from a health-care provider and they 're connected with this team , " she said . At-home monitoring The patient will then be asked if they want a pulse oximeter . It 's a small monitor that is easily placed on the finger and tracks oxygen levels . If the patient agrees , one will be sent to their doorstep within 24 hours . Miller said they 've sent hundreds of them out in the last 72 hours alone . The package comes with instructions on how to use the monitor , as well as a phone number to reach an on-call physician directly . If an otherwise healthy person 's oxygen level is below 92 , they are told to call the physician immediately . For pregnant women , that threshold is 94 per cent . Those numbers mean the patient needs to be admitted in the hospital . Pulse oximeters are shipped to a patient 's door within 24 hours . They 're told to check their oxygen levels at least twice a day . If their oxygen drops below a certain level , they 're immediately admitted to the hospital . ( Antonio Calanni/The Associated Press ) The percentages are actually higher than the 90 per cent benchmark that was used in the first wave -- a reflection of how fast the new variants progress , said Miller . Tracking oxygen can be crucial in showing what is really going on . Miller points to cases where people have died suddenly at home . Sometimes , people who have low oxygen levels can still talk without getting out of breath . " That 's the rationale for our program , " she said . " We recognized very early on that sometimes people can have quite low oxygen levels but they do n't really feel it . " Nova Scotia Health received 1,000 pulse oximeters through a grant from the QEII Health Foundation , and the health authority recently bought thousands more to ensure that anyone who wants home monitoring will receive one . Miller said home monitoring has already led to several Nova Scotians being admitted in the third wave , and they were taken to hospital with minimal contact with others . " They actually were able to bypass the emergency department , and that 's a pretty incredible feat , " she said . Missed calls a significant issue Miller and Kohler said the program hinges on people picking up their phones , so the physicians do n't have to spend their time trying to find other contact information . Kohler estimated 20 per cent of calls go unanswered , even though people know they 're waiting for their test results . He acknowledged part of the problem has been that call display shows an unknown caller , and they wo n't leave a voicemail . Some people refuse to answer calls from unknown numbers because they assume it 's a scam . Kohler , the director of primary health care in the northern zone , worked with Miller to create the home-monitoring program . He says one of their biggest problems is that people are n't answering their phones . ( Carolyn Ray/CBC ) Kohler said nearly all physicians and clinicians who are making the diagnosis calls will have phones that read NS Health on the display as of Wednesday . He said they 'll also send text messages , telling people they are about to call and they need to answer their phones . Once someone picks up , they 'll be asked for the last four digits of their health card number and their birthdate . " You have every right to ask for us to repeat back to you your full health card number and also to provide something else , " Kohler suggested for those who still feel uncertain . But after spending nearly a year figuring out this system , Kohler and Miller are hopeful they are helping people before they realize they need it . MORE TOP STORIES <p> MONTREAL -- After years in and out of jail in Dubai , one escape attempt , and being embroiled in a multimillion-dollar fraud scheme , Andr ? Gauthier is finally home.Gauthier , a geologist who spent years in legal limbo after allegedly uncovering fraud in a gold company , said on Tuesday he was at a Dubai hotel last week when he received a call from authorities telling him he could leave the country.The criminal charges against him had been dropped last June but it took nearly a year to get parallel civil cases dismissed and for authorities to negotiate his release . " It was Day 328 that I 'd been waiting for that call , " he said in a phone interview from Quebec City , referring to the time he spent waiting to leave Dubai after the criminal charges were dropped . " I do n't have to tell you , I did n't sleep that night . " The 67-year-old said he was first arrested in 2015 after he alerted authorities in the United Arab Emirates to irregular dealings in gold-trading company Gold AE.He and his lawyer , however , say he was made a scapegoat in the $30-million fraud case after the real perpetrators left the country and the company 's investors filed complaints against him.Gauthier said the hardest thing about his ordeal was feeling unheard . " You think you 're doing the right thing by whistleblowing something and bringing it to the authorities , and bringing it to the leadership of the company , " said Gauthier , who was himself one of the company 's directors . " ( You feel ) like you 're doing all this for nothing , basically because nobody wanted to solve it . " A low point came when Gauthier , who was facing about 70 criminal charges , tried to escape to Oman in 2019 and was intercepted and jailed . It was the only time his faith in his release wavered . " I just sent a message to my son , my wife and my daughter to say that they better be forgetting me because with what I had in front of me , I do n't know when or if I would be back , " he said.U.K. -based lawyer Radha Stirling credits the Canadian government for making a sustained diplomatic effort to free her client , as well as Gauthier 's family for lobbying tirelessly for his release . " I think the Canadian government 's done a good job and set a very good example to other countries on how this can be done , " she said in a phone interview on Tuesday . Her only criticism is that she feels it took too long to secure his freedom . The real perpetrators of the case , Stirling said , have not been brought to justice.Stirling , founder of the organization Detained in Dubai , said she also believes foreign governments need to do more to stand up to the U.A.E. government . " These money-laundering scams in the U.A.E. are going on all the time and we 're getting more and more , and they 're targeting Canadian investors and American investors , and we 're turning a blind eye to this kind of abuse , " she said.Gauthier said his father died in Quebec while he was detained , and he exhausted his financial resources fighting the cases . Now home quarantining with his wife , he says he 'll spend the next few weeks and months getting his driver 's licence and health insurance back , and wants to visit his extended family in Quebec 's Saguenay region . Eventually , he 's interested in getting back into the mining industry.He wants to pass on a message to the families of Michael Kovrig and Michael Spavor , the two Canadians who have been detained in China in an apparent retaliation for Canada 's arrest of Huawei executive Meng Wanzhou , to tell them not to give up . " I can tell those families it 's important to keep the faith that the government will try to find a solution , " he said . " How long will it take , unfortunately it 's a file that 's much more complicated than mine , but they have to keep the hope that everything will work out in a reasonable time frame . " This report by The Canadian Press was first published May 11 , 2021 . Morgan Lowrie , The Canadian Press <p> A message from some Yukoners today : " Fire them ! " This , in reference to two MLAs who were part of a vulgar text chat about some of their political opponents that went public last week . The Yukon Party has said the MLAs will attend anti-bullying training but remain in caucus . Today a few dozen protesters in Yukon , both in Whitehorse and in Dawson City , said that is not enough . Mary Holozubiec was at the protest in Whitehorse , which was called End Transphobia and Sexism in the Yukon Legislative Assembly . She held a sign that said , " I voted Yukon Party . Not next time . " " I feel like letting these MLAs work for full pay without doing their full job is not acceptable punishment , " Holozubiec said . " It condones the texts that were sent . " Grey Capot-Blanc spoke as part of a new group called Northern Voices Rising . They said the MLAs ' comments were offensive and deserved greater censure . " I do n't want people to see what they said to be normal . Having homophobic and transphobic remarks normalized is not good , " Capot-Blanc said . Sean Ladue also attended today 's protest . He 's an activist and advocate for LGBTQ2S+ people in the territory who spoke this year at the raising of the Progress Price flag before the legislative assembly . " The people are coming together to show support for those who have been maligned by the MLAs ignorant text messages , " he said . " Those texts are indicative of their thought processes , which are uncalled for at this time . " Vanessa Thorson was also in attendance . " I think it 's somehow the notion that your masculinity or femininity are defined by whether you have power , and your genitalia is a determinant of that , " she said . " It 's just so crude and disrespectful . " Molly Hobbis , 16 , holds a sign that reads ' Fire them ' before the Legislative Assembly . " It 's not OK for such comments to be said in a modern times ! This is 2021 not the 1950s , " she said . ( Philippe Morin/CBC ) <p> CALGARY -- Neighbouring provinces are eyeing Saskatchewan 's plan to ease COVID-19 restrictions in tandem with vaccination rates , but experts are warning the approach could lead some to a false sense of security . Saskatchewan 's " reopening road map " outlined last week says public health measures are to start to relax three weeks after 70 per cent of residents 40 and older have received their first shot and all adults are eligible . Step 1 , which could take effect as soon as month 's end , would allow restaurants and bars to seat six at a table , fitness classes to resume with three metres between participants and gathering limits to ease . Restrictions are to further loosen three weeks after 70 per cent of those 30 and over are vaccinated once , and then again three weeks after the same percentage of anyone 18 and over has had a first shot . " This has worked in other jurisdictions and we firmly believe that it will work here in Saskatchewan , " said Premier Scott Moe , citing the United Kingdom and Israel as examples . Nazeem Muhajarine , a professor of community health and epidemiology at the University of Saskatchewan , points out that more than 20 per cent of the U.K. 's population has received a second vaccination , which affords greater protection against the virus than just one shot . The country is also reopening after having imposed much more severe restrictions . In Israel , more than half the population has received two shots . Muhajarine said Saskatchewan 's dual-dose coverage is likely to be closer to 10 per cent . " One dose of a vaccine is not enough to give the population full protection , particularly against the variants , " he said . " The variants are unpredictable , unknown and the dark horse in all of this . " Manitoba Premier Brian Pallister has said his Progressive Conservative government is working on a plan he hopes will provide hope and help people comply with health orders . Health officials have said Manitoba 's plan will be connected to vaccine rates , but will also consider hospital capacity and case numbers . Alberta recently eased restrictions on visits to long-term care facilities because almost all residents have received both doses . Premier Jason Kenney has said Saskatchewan has a " thoughtful " framework that his province is exploring . " We 've seen some governments , some public health experts , say that even if you 've received the double dose , it makes no difference . You 've got to stay shut down at home indefinitely , " Kenney said . " That I think disincentivizes people from getting the vaccine , especially the people who are vaccine hesitant . " Muhajarine said dangling vaccines as a carrot could have the opposite effect . " People could actually get a false sense of security . " He said he understands that people need to see a path toward ending restrictions . " Canadian summer is what we live through the winter for , " he said . " We also have to make sure that we do n't put our lives and our loved ones lives at risk unnecessarily or too hastily . " Dr. Daniel Gregson , an associate professor with the University of Calgary 's Cumming School of Medicine , said Saskatchewan has a " wise " plan overall . " ( Moe 's ) not just saying when ( the vaccination rate ) hits 70 per cent , we 're going to flap open the doors , " he said . " We 're going to do it in a stepwise manner with a combination of vaccination and restrictions . " Gregson noted a segment of the population would still remain unprotected . " If you are in an age group where you 're at really high risk of dying and death , and you 're not vaccinated , this plan will help protect the health-care system , but it 's not going to protect you as an individual , " said Gregson . Outbreaks will still occur as " birds of a feather flock together " and like-minded unvaccinated people gather , said Gregson . But , he adds , it 's less likely those would grow into super-spreader events in the broader community . " This virus is not going away , no matter what percentage of the population we get immunized , " said Gregson . " And if you think herd immunity is going to work for you , you are wrong . " This report by The Canadian Press was first published May 11 , 2021 . Lauren Krugel , The Canadian Press <p> NAXOS , Greece ( AP ) -- A vaccination program for Greek islands is being accelerated to cover all local residents by the end of June , the government announced Tuesday ahead of the launch of the tourism season . Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis said a nationwide priority system for age groups and medical vulnerability was being waived for permanent residents of nearly 100 islands . " This initiative is aimed at supporting local island communities and their economy and it also aspires to send a positive overall message for our tourism , " Mitsotakis said after a video conference with island mayors and regional governors . Greece is fighting to revive its key tourism sector that was battered by the pandemic in 2020 but its vaccination rates remain below the European Union average and the country has only recently stabilized a surge in cases . On the island of Naxos , a popular family holiday destination , officials welcomed the initiative . Mayor Dimitris Lianos told The Associated Press that the single dose vaccine manufactured by Johnson &amp; Johnson was also being deployed to speed up the program . " By the end of June , all our year-round residents will be vaccinated and that 's very important for us because it creates a sense of safety for the people that live here and for the people who will visit our island , " Lianos said . Robin Rose Varthalitou , and 69-year-old Naxos resident from Wales said she was relieved the vaccination drive was expanding . " There 's been no problem . No worries . It 's fine , " she said of the immunization program so far . " I reckon everybody should do it by law ... This ( pandemic ) is a tragedy everywhere , financially and for people . A tragedy . " Islanders make up around 1.5 million of Greece 's population of 10.7 million . Many holiday islands have a year-round population of under 10,000 , while Crete has the largest with more than 600,000 residents , followed by Evia , Rhodes , Corfu , Lesbos , and Chios . The tourism season officially opens Friday . Derek Gatopoulos and Theodora Tongas in Athens contributed . Thanassis Stavrakis And Srdjan Nedeljkovic , The Associated Press <p> JERUSALEM ( AP ) -- The Latest on confrontations between Israelis and Palestinians , sparked by weeks of tensions in contested Jerusalem and as Israel has signaled it 's widening its military campaign : CAIRO -- Arab foreign ministers have urged the International Criminal Court to proceed with an investigation into Israel 's possible war crimes and crimes against humanity against the Palestinians , including the planned eviction of Palestinian families from the Sheikh Jarrah neighborhood in east Jerusalem . The minister met virtually on Tuesday to discuss on the latest escalation of violence in the Al-Aqsa Mosque compound and the Gaza Strip . In a statement after the meeting , they called for the ICC to mobilize resources for such an investigation . They strongly condemned what they call Israel 's crimes against Muslim worshippers at the Al-Aqsa Mosque , and the latest court orders to evict families of Sheikh Jarrah neighborhood . The ministers urged the U.N . Security Council to take action in order to stop the " Israeli aggression " and provide " international protection " to the Palestinian people . TEHRAN , Iran -- Iran 's supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei has urged all nations to condemn Israel 's " brutal and cruel crime " against Palestinians in the wake of the latest Mideast escalation . Iranian state TV on Tuesday quoted Khamenei as saying that it was a duty of every state to take a stand and condemn this " evil , criminal , brutal and cruel " action by Israel . Khamenei also said Palestinian need to be empowered in order to " force " Israel to accept their rights . " They should make themselves powerful , resist and confront so as to force the other party to withdraw from crime and surrender to what 's right and fair , " Khamenei said . Khamenei added : " You can not speak to these criminals except in the language of power . " Iran is considered Israel 's archenemy and backs anti-Israel militant groups across the region , including Hamas and Islamic Jihad in the Gaza Strip . JERUSALEM -- Israel 's police chief is beefing up deployments across the country in response to a wave of unrest in Arab communities . Koby Shabtai issued the order on Tuesday as crowds set a police cruiser , motorcycle and bus on fire during protests in the central city of Lod . Protests were expected in dozens of other Arab communities across the country . In a statement , police said Shabtai instructed his commanders " to intensify police presence on the streets " following widespread unrest and protests in dozens of Arab communities across the country Monday night . The mounting unrest came at a time of heightened tensions following weeks of violence in Jerusalem and heavy fighting between Israel and Hamas militants in the Gaza Strip in the past day . Earlier in the day in Lod , Israeli police fired tear gas and stun grenades after mourners started throwing stones at officers during the funeral of an Arab man allegedly killed by a Jewish resident in the area . DUBAI , United Arab Emirates -- Gulf Arab countries are offering harsh criticism of Israel in the wake of the latest Israeli-Palestinian confrontation as violence rises in Jerusalem and the Gaza Strip . Hundreds of Kuwaitis staged a sit-in outside Parliament , chanting " No to normalization " with Israel and voicing support for the Palestinians . Tuesday 's protest , which blocked traffic and drew outspoken activists , officials and lawmakers , comes as Gulf Arab sheikhdoms with new diplomatic ties to Israel increasingly condemn the escalation . As part of the U.S.-brokered normalization agreements known as the " Abraham Accords , " the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain opened ties with Israel last fall , reversing the decades-long Arab policy of conditioning relations on a resolution of the Mideast conflict and drawing intense backlash from the Palestinians . The de facto leader of the UAE , Abu Dhabi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed , stressed " the importance of putting an end to all aggressions and practices that exacerbate tension and wrath in the sacred city " of Jerusalem . He discussed flaring Mideast tensions in meetings Tuesday with the Bahraini crown prince and Jordan 's prime minister . Bahrain also renewed its criticism of the rising tensions , with the speaker of parliament affirming the kingdom 's support for a two-state solution and denouncing Israel 's " provocations against the people of Jerusalem , " including threatened home evictions and attacks in the Al-Aqsa Mosque . Harsh condemnations also have poured in from regional powerhouse Saudi Arabia and the tiny state of Kuwait , which have traditionally considered themselves among the standard-bearers for the Palestinian cause . JERUSALEM -- Israeli police have fired tear gas and stun grenades after mourners started throwing stones at officers during the funeral of an Arab man allegedly killed by a Jewish resident in central Israel . The shooting early on Tuesday in Lod came at a time of heightened tensions following weeks of unrest at a contested holy site in Jerusalem and heavy fighting between Israel and Hamas militants in the Gaza Strip . The fighting has spilled over into Israel 's Arab sector , with protests taking place in dozens of communities across the country . Thousands of people took part in the funeral in Lod . Police said two officers were injured and a patrol car was set on fire . Israeli police have arrested three people suspected of involvement in the shooting . CAIRO -- Egypt 's top diplomat says he has conveyed messages to Israel and other nations to help de-escalate the outbreak of violence in Jerusalem and the Palestinian territories . Foreign Minister Sameh Shukry told a virtual meeting of Arab foreign ministers on Tuesday that though Cairo has not received a positive response , it will continue with efforts to calm down the escalation in the holy city . He did not elaborate . Earlier in the day , an Egyptian intelligence official said Cairo is engaged in " intensive " talks with Israel and Gaza militants on reaching a cease-fire to end the latest round of fighting . The Egyptian foreign minister also lashed out at Israel for its what he called " violations " at the Al-Aqsa mosque compound in Jerusalem and Israel 's planned eviction of Palestinian families from the Sheikh Jarrah neighborhood . He called on all Arab nations to unite " at this critical moment " to prevent any attempts to change the status quo in Jerusalem , and to help Palestinians achieve their independent state with east Jerusalem as its capital . COPENHAGEN , Denmark -- The head of the Norwegian Refugee Council has urged both Israel and the Palestinians " to avoid further escalation and prevent loss of life , " saying that civilians , and specifically children , pay " the heaviest price " after Israel unleashed new deadly airstrikes on Gaza . The organization 's chief , Jan Egeland , said on Tuesday that civilians " once again " were " bearing the brunt of a dramatic escalation in hostilities . " He added that children , whether they are Palestinian or Israeli , are left with " not only physically scarred but also emotionally damaged . " The Oslo-based group called on " all parties to the conflict to stop the provocations and to ensure that civilians are protected . " Egeland said in a statement that the latest events " also shows that the prolonged conflict and occupation are unsustainable . " Since sundown Monday , 26 Palestinians -- including nine children and a woman -- were killed in Gaza , most by airstrikes , Gaza health officials said . During the same period , Gaza militants fired hundreds of rockets toward Israel , killing two Israeli civilians and wounding 10 others . KARACHI , Pakistan -- Dozens of Pakistanis have rallied in the southern port city of Karachi to condemn Israel 's use of force against the Palestinians at the al-Aqsa mosque compound in Jerusalem during the holy month of Ramadan . The demonstrators , who mostly included members of the civil society , chanted against Israel to express solidarity with the Palestinians . They also burned an Israeli and an American flag to express their anger against the use of force against Palestinian worshippers . The demonstrators were holding a banner that read as : " Israel is an illegitimate state " . The rally on Tuesday came hours after Pakistan 's Prime Minister Imran Khan in a televised comment denounced Israel 's use of force against Palestinians . Pakistan is one of the few countries that have no diplomatic relations with Israel . TEHRAN , Iran -- The foreign minister of Iran has denounced what he calls the aggression of Israeli security forces in the holy city of Jerusalem and expressed Iran 's solidarity with the Palestinians amid escalating violence . Mohammad Javad Zarif says in a video message released on Tuesday in Arabic that the " attacks " on the Al-Aqsa mosque compound , one of the holiest sites in Islam , are " the greatest evidence there is of the discriminatory and criminal nature " of Israel . Zarif blamed Israel for fueling " insecurity and instability in the region " and also proposed a " popular referendum " in the Palestinian territories as " the only just solution to the Palestinian issue " so that Palestinians may decide " their own fate . " Zarif affirmed that Iran " is always on the side of the Palestinians and supportive of their cause " and called the Palestinian conflict " the pivotal issue of the Islamic world and people . " Iran is considered Israel 's archenemy and backs anti-Israel militant groups across the region , including Hamas and Islamic Jihad in the Gaza Strip . MADRID -- A few dozen people have gathered outside the Israeli Embassy in the Spanish capital to protest Israel 's use of force against the Palestinians . Most of the crowd on Tuesday in Madrid waved Palestinian flags . They shouted " Israel , assassin of the Palestinian people " and " it 's Palestine , not Israel " in Spanish . Some held up photos of Palestinians being arrested by Israeli forces . All wore face masks as stipulated by Spanish health laws to fight the coronavirus pandemic . CAIRO -- The head of the Arab League has blamed Israel for the escalation of violence in the Palestinian territories , warning that Israeli policies would blow up the situation in Jerusalem . Ahmed Aboul Gheit , secretary-general of the 22-member organization , spoke on Tuesday as Arab foreign ministers were meeting to discuss the latest bout of violence between the Palestinians and Israelis . He decried what he called Israel 's provocative practices in the Al-Aqsa Mosque compound and the planned eviction of Palestinian families from Sheikh Jarrah neighborhood in east Jerusalem . " What we have witnessed is , clearly and frankly , a provocation by the Israeli occupation , that targeted the holiest Islamic sanctities , at at the most sacred time , " he said , referring to the Muslim holy month of Ramadan . He urged the U.N . Security Council to take action . DUBAI , United Arab Emirates -- A gathering of representatives of Muslim nations has condemned Israel for the outbreak of violence in the Al-Aqsa mosque compound in Jerusalem , one of the holiest sites in Islam . The emergency meeting of the 57-member Organization of Islamic Cooperation was held on Tuesday in Jiddah , Saudi Arabia , to present a unified response from the Muslim world to the soaring tensions between Israel and the Palestinians and the latest violent confrontations in Jerusalem . In a communiqu ? , the meeting denounced Israel 's " continuous violations " of the sanctity of Al-Aqsa Mosque , " barbaric attacks " against worshippers and movement restrictions on Palestinians at the compound . It said that it considered the Israeli actions a " provocation of the feelings of Muslims around the world and serious violation of international law . " It called on the international community to hold Israel liable for the escalation and to press it to halt attacks that threaten " the security and stability of the region . " It also reaffirmed the long-standing Arab stance of support for an independent Palestinian state with east Jerusalem as its capital . ANKARA , Turkey -- The office of Turkey 's president says he is engaged in intense telephone diplomacy in a bid to end Israel 's use of force against the Palestinians . Since late Monday , Recep Tayyip Erdogan has spoken to Malaysia 's king and the leaders of Qatar , Kuwait and Jordan , as he seeks a strong stance by Muslim nations against Israel , according to Erdogan 's office . The Turkish president , who has has strongly denounced Israel 's actions against Palestinians at the Al-Aqsa Mosque compound during the fasting month of Ramadan , has also spoken to Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas and Hamas chief , Ismail Haniyeh . The latest round of fighting comes as Turkey has reportedly been seeking to restore ties with Israel . The two countries withdrew their ambassadors in 2018 , after the United States moved its embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem , sparking mass protests by Palestinians . Late on Monday , thousands of protesters marched to Israel 's embassy in Ankara and the consulate in Istanbul to protest Israel , ignoring Turkey 's COVID-19 restrictions . JERUSALEM -- The Israeli military says it has assassinated a senior commander of the Islamic Jihad militant group in Gaza on Tuesday , It said the militant was the head of the Islamic Jihad 's rocket unit and identified him as Samih al-Mamluk . The military said other senior militants in the organization were also killed in the same strike . Islamic Jihad confirmed the three killed in an airstrike in an apartment in Gaza City were senior members of its armed wing . The militant group vowed retaliation . ISLAMABAD -- Pakistan 's prime minister has denounced Israel 's use of force against Palestinians at the Al-Aqsa Mosque compound during the fasting month of Ramadan . Imran Khan said Tuesday that he had asked his foreign minister to contact his Turkish and Saudi counterparts to discuss how to collectively respond . Earlier , Pakistan 's foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi at a news conference urged the world community to take notice of Israel 's use of force against innocent Palestinians worshippers . Under discussion is whether Pakistan , Saudi and Turkish officials should convene the Organization of Islamic Cooperation , a group of Islamic countries . Pakistan is one of the few countries that have no diplomatic relations with Israel . JERUSALEM -- Israeli media reports that a rocket has struck an empty school in the coastal city of Ashkelon , not far from the Gaza Strip . Television footage showed thick smoke rising from cars that had caught on fire . Israel 's Home Front Command had ordered the closure of schools on Monday in the area surrounding the Gaza Strip , including Ashkelon . The move came during the escalation of tension that 's built for weeks over contested Jerusalem .. Since Monday , Gaza militants have fired hundreds of rockets toward Israel . Israel has fired back . An airstrike has hit a high-rise building in the middle of Gaza City . Local media reported that Tuesday 's airstrike killed an unknown number of militants inside . The strike in the middle class Rimal neighborhood sent terrified residents of the building into the streets . They included screaming women and children , some of whom were barefoot . Earlier Tuesday , Israel hit a high-rise where it said a Hamas commander was hiding . CAIRO -- An Egyptian intelligence official says Egypt is engaged in " intensive " talks with Israel and Gaza militants on reaching a cease-fire to end the latest round of fighting . The official said the efforts began in late April as the situation in Jerusalem worsened . He said Israeli actions , including the recent storming of the Al-Aqsa mosque and the planed evictions of Palestinian families from their homes in an east Jerusalem neighborhood , have frustrated the mediators . The official says " the situation is changing rapidly , " but officials nonetheless hope to reach a truce before the Muslim holiday of Eid al-Fitr later this week . Egypt frequently mediates between Israel and Hamas . The official spoke on condition of anonymity because he was discussing ongoing diplomatic efforts . -- Samy Magdy in Cairo GAZA CITY , Gaza Strip -- An Israeli airstrike has hit another high-rise building in the middle of Gaza City . Local media reported that Tuesday 's airstrike killed an unknown number of militants inside . But the airstrike in the middle-class Rimal neighborhood in Gaza sent terrified residents of the building into the streets . They included screaming women and children , some of whom were barefoot . Earlier on Tuesday , Israel hit a high-rise where it said a Hamas commander was hiding . Palestinian health officials said a woman and her 19-year-old disabled son were killed . The fate of the Hamas commander was not immediately known . Since Monday , Gaza militants have also fired hundreds of rockets toward Israel . The escalation in the conflict was sparked by weeks of tensions in contested Jerusalem . The Associated Press 
@@52720933 <p> If you 're a long-term investor , there is no shortage of growth opportunities in the Canadian stock market right now . In the short term , we could continue to see a volatile market , but over the long term , there are a few trends that I think Canadian investors would be wise to have exposure to . <p> Tech and renewable energy are two of the sectors I 'm most bullish on over the next decade . Both sectors had an extremely strong year in 2020 but have cooled off as of late . <p> In the short term , it 's anybody 's guess as to how either sector will fare . But long term , it 's hard to imagine the leaders in each respective sector wo n't continue to deliver market-beating growth . <p> If you 've got cash that 's ready to be put to work , here are two top Canadian stocks that should be at the top of your watch list right now . <h> Lightspeed POS stock <p> Not many Canadian stocks have outperformed Lightspeed POS ( TSX:LSPD ) ( NYSE:LSPD ) since it joined the TSX in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stock are up a market-crushing 300% . <p> It 's been a bumpy ride for shareholders over the past two years , but patient investors have been well rewarded . And at a price-to-sales ratio of above 50 , I would n't bank on the volatility slowing day anytime soon either . <p> The reason why investors are willing to pay a premium is because of the growth opportunity . At a market cap still of only $10 billion , there is plenty of room for this tech stock to soar over the next decade . <p> Lightspeed provides all kinds of products and services for its customers today . It 's far from just a point-of-sale hardware provider anymore . <p> Today , it serves both brick-and-mortar and online retailers . The company 's cloud-based solutions help its customers with all areas of their business , including payment solutions , order fulfillment , and accounting , just to name a few . <p> The growth stock may be far from cheap , but it is trading at an opportunistic discount right now . Lightspeed shares are down 25% from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stock <p> Renewable energy stocks have seen a similar trend in performance compared to the tech sector over the past year . <p> The rise of green energy continued to rally through most of last year , which led to the market leaders in the sector surging to all-time highs . It 's been a far different story this year , though . <p> Canadian investors have witnessed a sell-off in many top renewable energy stocks through the first four months of the year . As a long-term investor , though , I see this as an excellent time to load up on top picks in the growing sector . <p> As I 'm already a shareholder of one of my highest-conviction stocks on the TSX , Brookfield Renewable Partners , I 've got Northland Power ( TSX:NPI ) at the top of my watch list right now . <p> Just like Lightspeed , shares are trading at a discount right now . The green energy stock is trading more than 20% below all-time highs . <p> The reason I 've got this $9 billion renewable energy company on my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Northland Power offers its shareholders exposure to a wide range of different renewable energy markets as well as a global presence . <p> The post Canadian Investors : Here Are 2 of the Best Stocks to Buy Today appeared first on The Motley Fool Canada . <p> Still unsure about investing in Lightspeed POS ? This report should help you decide ... <p> Motley Fool Canadian Chief Investment Advisor , Iain Butler , and his Stock Advisor Canada team just revealed what they believe are the 10 best stocks for investors to buy right now ... and Lightspeed POS was n't one of them . <p> The online investing service they 've run since 2013 , Motley Fool Stock Advisor Canada , has beaten the stock market by over 3X . And right now , they think there are 10 stocks that are better buys . <p> The Hong Kong government has begun the process of creating a new law to tackle the unauthorized release of personal data , or doxxing . " The current Personal Data ( Privacy ) Ordinance ... was not intended to address the doxxing acts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a proposal was introduced in Hong Kong 's Legislative Council . ... <p> An American lawyer on trial in Japan on charges related to reporting of former Nissan Chairman Carlos Ghosn 's compensation asserted his innocence Wednesday , testifying he acted legally and in Nissan 's best interests . Greg Kelly , a former executive vice president at Nissan Motor Co. , told the Tokyo District Court he was worried Ghosn might job-hop after taking a big pay cut in 2010 , when Japan began requiring disclosures of high executive pay . <p> ( 1 October 2020 to 31 March 2021 ) Ambu 's revenue increased organically by 6% in Q2 and by 20% in the half year driven by the rapid growth of our Visualization business . The revenue from our portfolio of single-use endoscopes ( Visualization ) grew 17% on top of 69% growth last year . Full-year outlook maintained . " Halfway into the financial year , we 're in a strong position to reach our full-year expectations . As focus on infection control continues to increase , we 're building our superior ecosystem consisting of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We 're excited with the progress of our recent launches and we have achieved important milestones to strengthen our infrastructure , including the groundbreaking for our new single-use endoscopy plant in Mexico , " says Juan Jose Gonzalez , CEO of Ambu . Highlights for the quarterComparative figures for Q2 2019/20 are stated in brackets . Revenue for Q2 was DKK 1,001m ( DKK 989m ) based on organic growth of 6% ( 24% ) . Reported growth for the quarter was 1% ( 26% ) . Organic growth for the half-year was 20% ( 19% ) with reported growth of 15% ( 21% ) . Sales in North America grew organically by 6% , while we saw organic growth in Europe of 2% and in Rest of World of 18% . Organic growth rates for the half-year were : North America 9% , Europe 34% and Rest of World 14% . Growth rates are significantly influenced by the high comparables for Q2 2019/20 , which was the beginning of the first wave of the COVID-19 pandemic.Visualization achieved double-digit organic growth of 17% on top of 69% last year . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 49% ) . Sales of single-use endoscopes reached 379,000 units for the quarter and 749,000 units for the half-year . Sales volumes were thus up 21% and 52% , respectively , relative to last year.Anaesthesia and PMD continued to be negatively impacted by COVID-19 . Anaesthesia declined by -4% ( 3% ) , and Patient Monitoring &amp; Diagnostics ( PMD ) declined by -7% ( -6% ) . For the half-year , Anaesthesia was flat at 0% ( 5% ) and PMD declined by 5% ( 1% ) . For the aScope ? Duodeno , we have continued our commercial launch and engaged with targeted hospitals including the largest ERCP centers in the USA . The upcoming US reimbursement for inpatient single-use duodenoscopy procedures is expected to accelerate the transition to single-use products . Therefore , we have decided to strengthen our product performance by making rapid upgrades to the aScope ? Duodeno ahead of the expected inpatient reimbursement approval in October 2021 . Half of the upgrades are available in the market now , and we expect the remaining upgrades to be implemented in Q4 2020/21 , effectively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gross margin for the quarter was 62.2% ( 61.4% ) . The gross margin for the half-year was 63.8% ( 60.8% ) and is positively impacted by high growth in Visualization , which contributes a margin well above the average for Ambu 's portfolio.Capacity costs for the quarter totaled DKK 523m ( DKK 457m ) , corresponding to an increase of 14% . The increase reflects our investment in commercial infrastructure and innovation activities . Capacity costs for the half-year were up 26% . EBIT for the quarter was DKK 100m ( DKK 150m ) with an EBIT margin of 10.0% ( 15.2% ) , while for the half-year EBIT ended at DKK 248m ( DKK 243m ) with a margin of 12.3% ( 13.9% ) . Net working capital-to-revenue ratio was 19% ( 23% ) by the end of the quarter based on rolling 12-month revenue.Free cash flow before acquisitions totaled DKK -27m ( DKK -89m ) for the quarter and for the half-year DKK -25m ( DKK -279m ) . Total net interest-bearing debt ( NIBD ) was DKK 466m ( DKK 1,446m ) , corresponding to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ debt is the result of the 1.86% capital raise and the sale of treasury shares carried out in January.The outlook for the 2020/21 financial year as announced in the annual report on 11 November 2020 is unchanged and as follows : Organic growth in the range of 17-20%EBIT margin before special items in the range of 11-12%Sales of single-use endoscopes of 1.3-1.4 million units A conference call is held today , Wednesday 12 May 2021 , at 10.00 ( CEST ) . The conference is broadcast live via ambu.com/webcastQ22021 . The presentation can be downloaded immediately before the conference call via the same link . To ask questions in the Q&amp;A session , please call one of the following numbers five minutes before the start of the conference : +45 3544 5577 ( DK ) , +44 333 300 0804 ( UK ) , +1 631 913 1422 ( US ) , and enter the following access code : 66323014# CONTACTS Investors Michael H ? jgaard , CFO , miho@ambu.com / +45 4030 4349Nicolai Thomsen , Director , Investor Relations &amp; Strategic Financial Planning , nith@ambu.com / +45 2620 8047 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ / +45 4191 0830 Attachment Q2 Company announcement no. 13 202021 <p> German container shipper Hapag-Lloyd said on Wednesday it increased its net profit in the first quarter to 1.2 billion euros ( $1.45 billion ) and kept up its guidance for " clearly higher " full year earnings . " We concluded the first quarter with a very positive financial result and look back overall on a solid start to the year , " said Rolf Habben Jansen , chief executive of Hapag-Lloyd , the world 's number five container liner . Its net profit had slumped to 25 million euros a year ago as the coronavirus pandemic hit . <p> Technical problems derailed Japan 's coronavirus vaccination booking system on Wednesday , compounding frustration over the government 's handling of new outbreaks of infections and an inoculation drive that critics say has been woefully slow . The online system to book a vaccine crashed in many places including parts of Tokyo and the western city of Minoh because of a global problem with U.S. cloud computing vendor Salesforce.com Inc , public broadcaster NHK reported . Salesforce chief technology @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experiencing a " major disruption " , later updating to say services had been mostly restored . <p> Comedy CentralThe Daily Show host Trevor Noah on Tuesday addressed the recent tensions in the ongoing conflict between Israel and Palestine -- as much as could reasonably be done in the time it takes to boil an egg.In recent days , Israeli police clashed with Palestinians at a Jerusalem mosque , nine children were among at least two dozen people killed by Israeli airstrikes , and Gaza militants fired rockets of their own at Israel , killing three.Noah , who acknowledged that there is n't " any TV show that in ten minutes is going to solve the Israel-Palestine problem , " did make some keen observations.For one , as a topic that has perplexed even the world 's best diplomats , it is even harder to unravel if no one can agree on where to begin analyzing it . " If you start from ' Israel fired rockets into Gaza , ' then Israel is the bad guy , because they 're bombing Gaza , " Noah explained . " But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you go , ' Well , but Hamas fired rockets at Israel . ' Then Hamas is the bad guy . But then you take a step back , and you go , ' But the Israeli police went in and started beating people up in a mosque during Ramadan , the most holy time in the Muslim calendar . ' Well then , Israel is the bad guy . " MSNBC Host Challenges Ex-Israel Ambassador on Possible ' War Crimes ' " And back and back and back , and who knows how far . The first cavemen who hit each other with clubs were probably Israeli and Palestinian . I do n't know . " Noah then pointed out the relative superiority of the Israeli military because of its ability to produce high-end , high-tech weapons ( in part thanks to U.S. funding ) . " I just want to ask an honest question here , " Noah said . " If you are in a fight where the other person can not beat you , how much should you retaliate when they try to hurt you ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and I 'm not trying to answer the question , nor do I think I 'm smart enough to solve it . All I ask is , when you have this much power , what is your responsibility ? " Read more at The Daily Beast.Get our top stories in your inbox every day . Sign up now ! Daily Beast Membership : Beast Inside goes deeper on the stories that matter to you . Learn more . <p> The budget 's affordability measures wo n't lower Australia 's house prices . They were n't designed to . There are ways to make housing cheaper for those locked out of the market , but little political will to let house prices fall <p> Newen , the production-distribution unit of TF1 , France 's biggest broadcast network , has acquired a minority stake in Spain 's Kubik Films , the ambitious production label owned and operated by filmmaking brothers Alberto and Jorge S ? nchez-Cabezudo . It will also serve as the exclusive distribution partner for their future feature film and TV productions . " The arrival of Alberto and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that talks over a restructuring of the company between France and the European Commission remained difficult , as EDF posted higher first quarter sales . The talks between France and the European Commission include the ARENH price mechanism under which competitors can get access to nuclear energy produced by EDF , and as EDF is a state-owned utility , the EU has a say on its reform on competition grounds . <p> UNITED NATIONS ( AP ) -- The United Nations on Tuesday responded to the rebounding Chinese and U.S. economies by revising its global economic forecast upward to 5.4% growth for 2021 , but it warned that surging COVID-19 cases and inadequate availability of vaccines in many countries threaten a broad-based recovery . In raising its projection from January of 4.7% growth , the U.N . ' s mid-2021 World Economic Situation and Prospects report pointed to the rapid vaccine rollout in a few large economies led by the U.S. and China and an increase in global trade in merchandise and manufactured goods that has already reached its pre-pandemic level . But the U.N . cautioned that " this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world 's economies , " and " the economic outlook for the countries in South Asia , sub-Saharan Africa and Latin America and the Caribbean remains fragile and uncertain . " Lead author Hamid Rashid , chief of the Global Economic Monitoring Branch in the U.N . Department of Economic and Social Affairs , told a news conference that " Europe 's outlook is not as bright as we expected " because of signs of second and third waves of COVID-19 infections . " The key challenge we face in the world right now is that infections are still rising in many parts of the world , and we are seeing new variants and new mutations affecting large populations in South Asia , also in Latin America , " he said . " That poses a significant challenge in terms of the recovery and world economic growth . " Rashid said : " Vaccination is probably right now the number one issue to put the world economy on a steady path of recovery . " He noted , however , that " vaccine inequity is a serious challenge . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considered a very high economic growth rate , but this year it is barely offsetting last year 's losses and growth is " very uneven and also very uncertain . " He said the U.N . expects the U.S. economy , which is very strong , to grow about 6.2% this year , " the fastest growth of the U.S. economy since 1966 , " and it expects the Chinese economy to grow by about 8.2% . But he called India , Brazil , South Africa and many other developing countries " weak spots . " Rashid said that in the past the growth rate of developing countries would be higher than the global average , but this year the average growth rate of many developing countries and regions is lower because of the pandemic . One of the key drivers of economic recovery has been investment , he said , with some countries like the U.S. seeing only a 1.7% drop in investment last year while some developed countries saw investment drop by 4% of GDP or even more . The $16 trillion in stimulus to counter the economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ avoid a complete meltdown of the global economy , " Rashid said , " but that has not led to massive increase in investment . " He warned that the " massive surges in stock market prices globally " are creating " something of a financial stability risk worldwide , and we have to be vigilant about that risk as that could also derail the recovery efforts going forward . " Rashid said the U.N . ' s forecast of 5.4% growth this year is far more cautious than other international organizations , including the International Monetary Fund , which last month revised its 2021 projection upward to 6% . " We 're still optimistic about the global economy , " Rashid said , but " there are a lot of uncertainties that we underscored in our report , especially the spread of vaccination and coverage that needs to happen in the next six months to achieve that kind of growth rate that we project here . " For 2022 , the U.N . forecast that the global economy will grow by about 4.7% is higher than the IMF 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Press <p> * Dollar index lingers near 2-1/2-month low before CPI data * Euro near 2-1/2-month high as region 's outlook improves * Cryptocurrency ether hits new record high at $$4,358.38 * Graphic : World FX rates https : //tmsnrt.rs/2RBWI5E By Tom Westbrook and Kevin Buckland SINGAPORE , May 12 ( Reuters ) - The U.S. dollar hovered near a 2-1/2-month low versus major peers on Wednesday , as traders hung on to bets that the Federal Reserve would remain steadfast in its easy policy settings ahead of data expected to show a sharp rise in annual U.S. inflation . Higher numbers might add pressure on the Fed to bring forward rate rises , a worry which has contributed to a selloff in rate-sensitive tech shares this week . Risk aversion helped a gauge of the safe-haven dollar a fraction higher to 90.278 as selling pressure persisted in stock markets , but that still left the dollar index just above key support around 89.677 and 89.206. 
@@52723444 <h> Morning Brief : End of the road for AstraZeneca in Canada ? <p> Today 's Morning Brief is brought to you by Chartered Professional Accountants of Canada . Transitioning to a net-zero emission economy requires sustainable finance . Our policy brief looks at steps the federal government can take to enable a more sustainable and prosperous future . <p> -- Questions over AstraZeneca 's future : The future use of AstraZeneca 's COVID-19 vaccine in Canada is in question due to blood clot concerns , supply issues , and increased supply of alternative shots . First Alberta , and then Ontario , announced they will no longer administer first doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine . Alberta said it was due to supply scarcity , while Ontario cited a rising rate of the rare blood-clotting condition connected to the shot . <p> Yesterday , Procurement Minister Anita Anand sought to restore public confidence in the vaccine , reminding Canadians that party leaders Jagmeet Singh , Erin O'Toole , and Justin Trudeau had all received the shot . <p> -- Kady O'Malley looks ahead to the rest of the day in politics with iPolitics AM : " Today may mark @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to shut down Enbridge 's Line 5 pipeline , but according to the latest dispatch from the Star , neither the embattled energy company or the Canadian government is expecting the taps to be forcibly turned off while the court-ordered mediation continues south of the border . <p> Even so , Prime Minister Justin Trudeau should be ready to face a flurry of questions over the fate of the pipeline when he faces his cross-aisle adversaries in the House of Commons this afternoon . " <p> -- MPs meet the new military conduct and culture lead : The military 's newly-appointed Chief of Professional Conduct and Culture , Lieutenant-General Jennie Carignan , testified yesterday before the Commons committee on the status of women . She said her priorities are reviewing and improving the sexual misconduct complaint system and creating an environment where abuse is prevented from happening in the first place . She also said training needs to be improved . <p> The committee also heard a deeply personal story of sexist double-standards on fraternization . Leah West , a former armoured officer , told MPs how her career was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the U.S. military . Meanwhile , men such as Lt.-Gen . Christopher Coates have been able to have consensual relationships with U.S. military members without the same repercussions . <p> -- End of Canadian aid in Afghanistan ? As the U.S. begins to pull out the last of its troops from war-ravaged Afghanistan , questions are mounting over whether or not Canada will be able to continue to provide international assistance there . In November , Canada pledged $275 million over the next three years to support health , education , gender equity , human rights , peace , and security initiatives . Some experts say it will be difficult for Canada to maintain its programs without Western military backing . <p> -- Fears of ' full-scale war ' in Israel-Palestine conflict : The United Nations ' Middle East envoy warned that the conflict between Israeli forces and militants in the Gaza Strip is " escalating towards a full-scale war . " <p> At least 35 people , including 12 children , have been killed in Gaza as Israel ramps up airstrikes in response to rocket attacks . Five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fire and airstrikes began this week . Militants inside Gaza fired rockets towards Tel Aviv early this morning , and Israel declared a state of emergency amid protests in Lod . In the heaviest fighting since 2014 , Israel says more than 1,000 rockets have now been fired by Palestinian militants . Israel brought down two tower blocks in Gaza yesterday . <p> -- Taliban approach Kabul : The Taliban have seized a district on the outskirts of the Afghan capital Kabul . Violence has soared in Afghanistan since May 1 , when the U.S. military began formally withdrawing its last remaining troops . <p> Two 73-year-old twins -- who normally see each other every week , but have been banned since the pandemic from visiting each other in their respective homes on either side of the Sweden-Norway border -- have instead been meeting every Saturday for a socially-distanced catch-up on a bridge across the closed border . The April-born brothers celebrated both their 72nd and 73rd birthdays this way . <h> More from iPolitics <p> By submitting content , you agree that you are personally responsible for the content @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the content that you submit . You also agree to comply with any specific rules posted on blogs or forums . Please see the Terms of Use for more details . 
@@52723814 <p> The company avoided the possibility of its first unionized warehouse , after years of successfully fighting off labor organizing , NPR reports . The final tally showed 1,798 against unionizing with 738 in favor . <p> The resounding victory for Amazon comes after weeks of local campaigning by the retail giant , which highlighted the company 's strengths and questioned the union 's benefits . Workers seemed to have more confidence in the ability of Amazon to provide benefits such as a $15 minimum wage ( double the national average ) , in addition to health and retirement benefits , according to The Wall Street Journal . <p> Amazon 's campaign efforts against unionization were no doubt aided by a tremendous year in growth . Amazon 's revenue soared 38% in 2020 as a result of the pandemic . <p> The WSJ adds that workers were concerned about the costs of union dues and had not been persuaded that the union would be able to significantly add more value than Amazon already does . <p> Despite the loss , the vote has been one of the most consequential events in the labor movement in recent history . Amazon has grown into the second-largest private employer in the United States with more than 800,000 employees . Union leaders said the vote alone prompted hundreds of new inquiries from other Amazon workers across the country , NPR reports . <p> In the weeks leading up to the vote , Amazon demonstrated several tactics to influence the vote . AP News said in March that Amazon had been hanging anti-union signs throughout the Alabama warehouse , including inside bathroom stalls , and holding mandatory meetings to convince workers why the union is a bad idea . AP also reported Amazon had created a website for employees that told them they would have to pay $500 a month in union dues , taking away from money that could go towards their families . <p> This was in addition to controversy the company faced last year when it fired an employee who staged a walkout at a New York warehouse for demanding better coronavirus protection protocols in the workplace . <p> " Officials at the Retail , Wholesale and Department Store Union argued that Amazon 's unfair tactics were to blame in an election where only just over half of eligible workers cast ballots , " Reuters reports . <h> Latest Stories <p> A national coalition of groups that support drug decriminalization say the plan put forward by Vancouver Mayor Kennedy Stewart known as the " Vancouver Model " is deeply flawed because the people it is meant to help were never consulted as promised . " The mayor said that we 'd be involved all the way through the design process . He said , this is my personal guarantee . So , the question is -- and I have asked him this -- why are n't we ? " said Garth Mullins of the Vancouver Area Network of Drug Users ( VANDU ) . The groups say if Vancouver -- which is seeking to be the first Canadian jurisdiction to decriminalize possession of small amounts of illicit drugs -- gets it wrong , it could set a terrible precedent for jurisdictions that follow . In November 2020 , Vancouver city council unanimously approved a motion to ask the federal government for an exemption from Criminal Code provisions on simple drug possession , laying the groundwork for what is now the Vancouver Model . The move was meant to recognize drug use as a public health issue instead of a criminal matter , and was triggered by the increasingly poisonous drug supply that is currently killing more than five British Columbians daily . On Tuesday , VANDU and its partners held a rally to bring attention to their concerns over the Vancouver Model . Chief among them is the threshold the model lays out for possession -- in other words , the quantity of drugs a person can be caught with and not trigger arrest or confiscation . According to the coalition , the threshold levels are far too low , meaning a substantial number of drug users would still be criminalized if the Vancouver Model comes into effect in its current form . A woman holds a sign during a protest against the proposed Vancouver Model for illicit drug decriminalization in the Downtown Eastside of Vancouver on Tuesday . Advocates say police have an oversized role in developing the model and that the thresholds that define simple possession are too low in the latest submission to Ottawa . ( Darryl Dyck/The Canadian Press ) " This is a serious question , " said Dr. Thomas Kerr , senior scientist at the B.C. Centre on Substance Use . " If you 're really concerned about addressing the harms of criminalization and you 're wanting to advance a model for decriminalization , you 're wasting your time setting the thresholds this low . " Kerr said data used to set the drug thresholds in the Vancouver Model were collected in 2018 , before the COVID-19 pandemic changed everything . " Just like more people are probably buying bulk at Costco to avoid having to go shopping every week , I think people who use drugs are doing similar things . They 're buying larger quantities , they 're buying for friends and partners and others to limit contact , " he said . ' Thresholds are a starting point , ' mayor says Mayor Kennedy Stewart said officials " respect the views of VANDU and other groups . ' ' " The proposed thresholds are a starting point and will be monitored and evaluated as more data become available , ' ' Stewart said in a statement . He said the city 's application to Health Canada is grounded in local data -- though VANDU argues the figures are outdated -- and aimed at reducing stigma to achieve a " fully health-focused approach to substance use . ' ' " As with many pioneering projects , efforts must be made to find consensus between a variety of groups with often vastly differing opinions , ' ' Stewart added . The coalition is also highly critical of the involvement of the Vancouver Police Department ( VPD ) in the creation of the Vancouver Model . It said the goal of decriminalization should be to remove police from a policy initiative , not give them " considerable input . " Mullins said the VPD was consulted on decriminalization thresholds , while his group was only consulted after thresholds were already established . The groups are asking that the police participation be completely cut out from any decriminalization planning . They also say it 's not too late for the mayor and city to engage in meaningful consultation with the constituents that decriminalization will most affect . " Nothing about us without us , " Mullins said . " It 's not too late . We can fix this , but it 's on the wrong track . " <p> Ottawa 's medical officer of health and the city 's mayor say if local COVID-19 indicators keep declining , there 's a chance the province could allow students to return to in-person classes by the end of May . At a news conference Wednesday , Dr. Vera Etches and Mayor Jim Watson called for a regional approach to reopening , noting that indicators in the city 's wastewater and the recent downward trend in hospitalizations are encouraging . They said they 'd shared those positive trends with the Ontario government . " It 's looking positive to be able to open schools toward the end of May if the rate of COVID continues to come down in our community , " she said . WATCH The likelihood of schools reopening this month : However , she warned the current infection rate -- about 75 per 100,000 people -- is about twice what the rate was when schools reopened in February . High levels of COVID-19 in the community , Etches said , increases the risk of it getting into schools . " We have to continue to be cautious . The level of protection from vaccines is n't enough to stop a resurgence at this point , " she said . " The stay-at-home order is what 's working right now to bring levels down . " ' Makes good sense ' Ottawa may be in a better position to open schools sooner than other hard-hit places like Peel Region and Toronto , said Mayor Jim Watson . " Opening the schools on a regional basis makes good sense , " Watson said . " The first priority for all of us here is to get our school system back up and running at least so the kids can have at least a month of in-class learning . " City public health officials have also said schools will likely provide an important venue for vaccinating children against the virus . The Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine is the only one Health Canada has authorized for use in children as young as 12 so far . Ontario schools were moved to remote learning following the delayed spring break in April 2021 . <p> As a lengthy , bitter fight over mask requirements for students neared its conclusion , the chairperson of a Florida school board announced that she would agree to lift a mandate that had been in place since September even though she preferred leaving it in place until the end of the academic year . Parents hurled insults in response . " Communist ! Democrat ! , " opponents of making children wear masks in school shouted as Ueberschaer and the district superintendent said at a May 3 meeting that they still considered masks advisable . " This is Santa Rosa County , America , not China ! " Moments later , the Santa Rosa school board voted unanimously to make masks optional for all grades effective immediately , joining dozens of other U.S , communities in declaring that masks were or would soon no longer be mandatory for students . The debates have been emotional and highly divisive around the country , in some cases leading to the involvement of police . A few beleaguered school boards , caught between the demands of anti-mask parents and the appeals of employee unions , eliminated student mask rules only to reverse or revise the decisions . Where many see a continued need to protect children who are n't vaccinated against COVID-19 , opponents argue that masks make students uncomfortable and mandates impinge on freedom . " The mask is a personal choice , and I wore it at the beginning , but I just decided that it was n't about the mask anymore , " said Cynthia Licharowicz , a Milton , Florida , parent who opposed Santa Rosa County 's rule . " So I decided to take it off , and I wanted my child to have the same choice . " The dustups highlight competing risk narratives 14 months into the pandemic : Even as a number of U.S. schools remain closed to minimize infections , districts in states from Alabama to Wyoming decided to ditch student mask mandates . Many more are likely to do the same before the next school year starts , despite the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 's guidance that schools " should prioritize universal and correct use of masks and physical distancing . " Some public health experts are alarmed . While the Food and Drug Administration this week approved Pfizer 's COVID-19 vaccine for children as young as 12 , it 's unlikely that many young adolescents will be vaccinated before the end of the academic year . Data from the CDC shows infection rates among U.S. residents ages 14-17 are now higher than for Americans , while the rates among children 6-13 are getting closer to the national average . " We know that masks work to reduce transmission , " Gigi Gronvall , a senior scholar at the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security , said . " This is really not the time to remove one of the best tools we have to reduce transmission . " Many parents in school districts where masks have become voluntary also are concerned . School districts in the South , Midwest and West have done away with mandatory masks . In Arkansas , a law will make it illegal by the end of the summer for schools , or any government entity to require masks . " I am so frustrated .... I do n't see any harm in wearing masks , and there is potential harm in not wearing a mask , " said Christie Black , the mother of a kindergartner and a third grader in Mesa , Arizona , who was puzzled by the decision of the state 's largest school district to make masks optional indoors starting earlier this month . There 's little U.S. data about the spread of the coronavirus in schools where students did n't wears masks since most reopened schools required them , said Adam Hersh , a professor of pediatric infectious diseases at the University of Utah . Mask supporters point to worrying examples , including high transmission at a maskless summer camp in Georgia . Evidence from earlier in the pandemic found children less likely than adults to be infected with the coronavirus and less likely to become seriously ill from COVID-19 . The CDC has said that while schools have n't been associated with substantial spread , outbreaks in schools not following infection-prevention measures " tend to result in increased transmission among teachers and school staff rather than among students . " Black continues to send her two children to school with masks but says " they flung their masks off " as soon as they saw classmates no longer covering their faces . " I feel like because the governor and the school board caved to peer pressure , it 's now up to my children not to cave to peer pressure , " Black said . " It just feels like we 're more concerned with our own freedom and rights than doing what 's best for the most vulnerable . " In Santa Rosa , east of Pensacola , mask opponents dominated public debate even though surveys of parents and teachers showed divided opinions in the 28,000-student district . A small majority of teachers wanted to require masks at least through the end of the school year , while a small majority of parents wanted the requirement lifted immediately . The school board 's April 20 discussion about the issue nonetheless grew so heated that sheriff 's deputies escorted multiple attendees out of the meeting , including at least one who was shouting profanities at board members . Jennifer Hensley , a Santa Rosa County parent and middle school teacher , was the only member of the public at the meeting who spoke in favor of keeping the mask mandate versus the 18 who spoke against the requirement . She said she was worried about the health of her fellow teachers and of her 15-year-old daughter , who has an autoimmune disorder . " The atmosphere was so charged , " Hensley recalled later . " I do n't think they were expecting that level of emotion to be involved . " Critics of the mask policy started organizing months earlier . Hailei Smead , a mother of three students , runs a Facebook group called Santa Rosa County Parents SPEAK UP that was created in September to oppose mask requirements and has nearly 900 members registered . Smead said her fifth-grade daughter was repeatedly isolated in the school office for refusing to wear a mask and eventually obtained a medical exception allowing her to forego a face covering . Smead declined to state the medical reason . " It 's not society 's job to protect every other individual , " Smead said . " It 's your own job to protect yourself and your own family . " Santa Rosa County district leaders emphasized they were following public health guidance , but state officials undercut that position even as public pressure built locally . Florida Education Commissioner Richard Corcoran on April 14 urged local superintendents to make masks optional for the 2021-2022 school year . On April 29 , Florida Surgeon General Scott Rivkees rolled back a series of health advisories that had been cited by the Santa Rosa district . So the school board called the May 3 meeting at which its five members voted to revoke the mask mandate . " I still strongly recommend the use of facemasks , especially for those who are not fully vaccinated , " board chair Ueberschaer said before the vote , raising her voice to be heard over shouting parents . " My hope is that the families will have a conversation with their children that face masks are now a personal choice , and that students should respect the choice of their peers . " Some of the insults hurled at Ueberschaer , a longtime school volunteer who is of Asian descent . included references to China . " It truly does make me sad that face masks have morphed from a virus-prevention strategy to a political statement , " she said . Jeff Amy And Lindsay Whitehurst , The Associated Press <p> The number of active COVID-19 cases has dropped dramatically in Banff after having had the highest per capita rate in the province . At the end of last month , the mountain town had a rate of more than 1,070 active cases for every 100,000 people . As of May 12 , however , the town has only the 60th highest rate in the province , says the town 's director of emergency management . Silvio Adamo says hard work , ample testing and creating isolation rooms led to the significant drop in cases . " Our tactic was to identify people in our community as quickly as possible with COVID and get them in isolation so that they did n't spread the virus . And I think we were pretty successful with that , " he said . Because many of Banff 's hospitality and service industry workers live communally , achieving isolation can be a challenge . Adamo says the town was able to create 143 isolation rooms , which helped flatten the curve in Banff . He says only 11 people now remain in quarantine . <p> HONG KONG/BEIJING ( Reuters ) -China is framing tough new rules to clamp down on a booming private tutoring industry , aiming both to ease pressure on school children and boost the country 's birth rate by lowering family living costs , sources told Reuters . The clampdown will also have the effect of cooling China 's cutthroat tutoring market for kindergarten through to the 12th grade , or K-12 pupils , that has grown exponentially in recent years to around $120 billion . At least one major company providing tutoring services has put a billion-dollar private fundraising round on ice amid increasing scrutiny from Beijing and looming industry uncertainty , according to three separate sources . <p> Preliminary results of an ongoing study in the United Kingdom suggest alternating the Oxford-AstraZeneca and Pfizer-BioNTech vaccines causes more frequent mild to moderate symptoms , but there are no other safety concerns from mixing those vaccines . However , researchers at the University of Oxford have not yet determined how a combination of shots would affect the immune system 's response compared with sticking with the same COVID-19 vaccine for both the prime and booster shots . They say in a peer-reviewed letter published in The Lancet on Wednesday that an increase in short-term adverse reactions occurred after the Pfizer vaccine was followed four weeks later by AstraZeneca , or vice versa , as part of the study that began earlier this year . Chief investigator Matthew Snape , associate professor in pediatrics and vaccinology at Oxford , said initial data are being released to inform people about symptoms as several countries consider mixing vaccines . " The results from this study suggest that mixed dose schedules could result in an increase in work absences the day after immunization , and this is important to consider when planning immunization of health-care workers , " Snape said in a EurekAlert ! statement issued by the service , which provides science-related releases . Researchers also noted that while the study participants were aged 50 and over , it 's possible that adverse reactions may be more prevalent in younger people , though they did not provide any details . Results on whether immune response to mixed doses would be affected are expected to be released by the Oxford team in the coming months . Snape said they 've adapted the ongoing study to assess if early and regular use of acetaminophen in Tylenol , for example , reduced the frequency of fever and mild to moderate pain . The study recruited 830 people to evaluate four combinations of vaccination : a first dose of AstraZeneca followed by either a booster shot of the Pfizer vaccine or another dose of AstraZeneca , or the Pfizer vaccine followed by a second shot of either AstraZeneca or Pfizer . Research was expanded last month for a new study with 1,050 volunteers who received either the AstraZeneca or Pfizer vaccine before randomly getting either the same vaccine for their second dose or the Moderna or Novavax vaccine . Horacio Bach , an infectious diseases expert at the University of British Columbia , said the small size of the initial study does not make it possible to know whether some people would get severe reactions from mixing the AstraZeneca and Pfizer vaccines . AstraZeneca , for example , was tested in about 32,000 people but rare blood clots were not detected until millions of people received the vaccine , which a national vaccine panel in Canada has suggested should be sidelined in favour of the " preferred " Pfizer or Moderna vaccines . Bach said it 's possible that knowing about an increase in adverse reactions from mixing vaccines could deter some people from getting a second dose , though symptoms following vaccination from even the seasonal flu shot vary widely . Three Canadians -- in Alberta , New Brunswick and Quebec -- have died from a rare blood clot associated with AstraZeneca . On Wednesday , even as the federal government announced it 's expecting to receive hundreds of thousands of doses of the vaccine , Nova Scotia and Manitoba said they would limit its use to second doses after similar restrictions on Tuesday in Alberta , Saskatchewan , Ontario and Quebec . Some of the provinces have used up their AstraZeneca supply . B.C. Health Minister Adrian Dix said Wednesday the province is expecting to use some of its forthcoming supply of AstraZeneca for second doses and more doses had been distributed to pharmacies in the Island and Interior health regions . This report by The Canadian Press was first published May 12 , 2021 . Camille Bains , The Canadian Press <p> Dozens of fishing boats are searching the Fraser River between Chilliwack and Mission for a missing 29-year-old Abbotsford man who fell into the icy water on Friday while sturgeon fishing with a friend . Fishing guide Steve Simpson said that Damian Dutrisac and Simpson 's friend Andrew Newton were fishing around 2 p.m. near the mouth of the Sumas River when the anchor of their boat got caught and both men were bucked off as water filled the back of the boat . " They panicked as they were trying to get the anchor out and as they were trying to pull up the anchor the water came up the back of the boat and threw Andrew off the boat and Damian off the boat , " said Simpson who spoke to CBC 's The Early Edition Wednesday morning with Newton . Newton said he swam to shore , making it to a small island , then had to wait for at least an hour to flag down a boat to get help . " Newton was distraught and he was absolutely beside himself . He threw up for half an hour just from pure exhaustion , " said Simpson . Damian Dutrisac and his fiance Karyssa Mclean in happy times . ( Submitted by Karyssa McLean ) Three search parties left from Chilliwack , Fort Langley and Ladner early Wednesday to attempt to locate the missing fisherman . Dutrisac had just proposed to his fianc ? Karyssa Mclean last September . She said he 'd taken up sturgeon fishing recently and had only been out about three times . She was horrified when she learned how small the boat was -- and the fact the two men had no life jackets on . She described her husband as a longshoreman who was strong-minded , loving and athletic . " One of our last conversations was how exciting it was to get married -- how it did n't matter who was going to be there . It was a heartwarming touching conversation that I ca n't believe was one of the last , " said Mclean . She knew something was wrong when he failed to reply to her text messages . " I did n't expect that you know , " she said . On Friday night , an initial search was called off after it got too dark . Simpson says the waters of the Fraser are treacherous right now , swollen with the spring freshet . Chilliwack RCMP have no further plans to search , and Simpson said it deemed the water too dangerous to allow SAR to participate . Mclean says she 'd just gotten her wedding dress and booked a venue for their marriage this upcoming October , and now all she can do is wait -- and hope -- he is found . " He was really , really loving -- I was so lucky . " <p> Harvey turned two years old on May 10 , 2021 . While family gathered in a tiny group because of covid-19 restriction in Langley British Columbia , fun was still had . When Harvey 's dad came around the corner with the cupcake birthday cake lit with a big number 2 ablaze , Harvey was not very impressed . Did he think he was too old now ? Did Harvey think his family sounded horrible singing him Happy Birthday ? Most likely , he was feeling a little bit overwhelmed after opening many gifts from his Grandpa , Nana , aunty , and his parents . Once the initial shock subsided and Harvey realized the cupcakes were for him , he calmed a little . Who would n't calm when being brought several delicious chocolate and vanilla cupcakes . What an exciting day for everyone and Harvey enjoyed his new tree swing from Grandpa , Hotwheels cars , clothing and fishing equipment from his aunty , and more clothes from his Nana . Family is everything to this family , so being together in these tough times was very special . Happy Second Birthday , Harvey ! <p> Alberta reported 1,799 new cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday and four new deaths . Since the beginning of the pandemic , 2,123 Albertans have lost their lives to the disease . Alberta labs completed 17,534 tests for COVID-19 on Tuesday , with a positivity rate around 10.4 per cent . In hospitals across the province , 737 people are being treated for COVID-19 -- an increase of 32 from the previous day . Included in that number are 169 patients in intensive care . Deaths reported Wednesday included a woman in her 70s in the Edmonton zone who died April 20 , a man in his 40s in the Calgary zone who died April 29 , a woman in her 50s in North zone who died Monday , and a woman in her 60s in Central zone , who also died Monday . The province is getting closer to the two-million mark for COVID-19 vaccine doses administered . As of end of day Tuesday , 1,975,341 doses had been administered , an increase of 28,337 from Monday 's total . Premier Jason Kenney said Tuesday the province expects to hit the 2 million milestone on Wednesday . Although active cases dropped slightly on Wednesday , Alberta continues to have the highest active case rate of COVID-19 in Canada and the United States . Here 's how Alberta 's active cases break down regionally : Calgary zone : 11,611 Edmonton zone : 5,606 North zone : 3,675 Central zone : 2,742 South zone : 1,311 Unknown : 17 <p> Chaos erupted in Mandalay , a hotbed of anti-military sentiment , when plainclothes police emerged from vehicles minutes into a protest , firing guns and beating demonstrators who fell as hundreds fled , according to four witnesses . " There are no words to describe their cruelty , " Aung Pyae Sone Phyo , 21 , a protest leader , told Reuters . Myanmar has been gripped by protests and deadly violence since the military seized power from an elected government on Feb. 1 , unleashing an outpouring of public anger and international condemnation of the junta 's lethal response . <p> HONG KONG ( AP ) -- Hong Kong police said Wednesday that they are investigating a top national security officer after a police raid found him at an unlicensed massage business . The person under investigation is Frederic Choi , head of the police National Security Department that was set up last year after Beijing decided to impose a new set of laws on Hong Kong against subversion , secession , collusion and terrorism . Commissioner of Police Chris Tang said Choi has been put on leave during the investigation . Tang provided few details about the raid . " I think the work of the National Security Department will not be affected by the investigation of an allegation against an individual officer , because we are a team and work as a team , " Tang said at a news conference . While operating an unlicensed massage business is an offence that could result in up to six months jail and a 50,000 Hong Kong dollar fine , patronizing such establishments is not illegal . The National Security Department was set up following the implementation of the new security law last year , which came as Beijing aimed to silence dissent in the semiautonomous territory following months of anti-government protests . Choi , who is also a senior assistant commissioner , joined the city 's police force in 1995 . In February , he received an award for his contributions to national security from the city 's leader Carrie Lam . He was sanctioned by the U.S. earlier this year together with six other national security officers for their role in undermining the autonomy of Hong Kong , a former British colony that was handed over to Beijing in 1997 . The Associated Press <p> MOSCOW ( AP ) -- Under Kremlin orders , the U.S. Embassy has stopped employing Russians , forcing the embassy to cut its consular staff by 75% and limit many of its services . The order went into effect on Wednesday , bringing the sharply deteriorating U.S.-Russia relationship to an intensely personal level . Because of the cuts , the embassy can offer only very limited services , such as considering " life-and-death " visa applications . That leaves Russian businessmen , exchange students and romantic partners adrift because they wo n't be able to obtain visas . Even Americans will be unable to register their newborns or renew their passports . For Anastasia Kuznetsova , a 20-year-old engaged to marry a Californian , it 's a crushing blow . She had already spent about two years seeking a fiancee 's visa . The notoriously laborious process for Russians to get U.S. visas had already been slowed by COVID-19 . " I felt destroyed , much more depressed than I was before , " said Kuznetsova , who last saw her fiance in January on a trip to Mexico . " We have no idea when it 's going to continue working and if we will be able to see each other even during these years . " Thomas H V Anthony , an American living in Russia , was already frustrated because of a delay in registering the birth of his daughter , a record of the child 's claim to U.S. citizenship . " My expectation was as things get better with the situation with the pandemic , gradually the consulate would open more and more and more , " he said . " It was a big shock to suddenly get an email from them , about two weeks ago , saying effective on the 11th we will no longer be offering any consular services . " For Anthony , this means his daughter , who was born before the pandemic , will not be able to travel to visit her grandparents in the United States in the foreseeable future . The embassy has made no statements on whether it is taking measures to beef up the consular staff with new employees from the United States . Embassy spokespeople could not be reached for clarification on how the mission will handle other jobs also filled by locals , such as security . An order signed last month by President Vladimir Putin called for creating a list of " unfriendly " countries whose missions could be banned from hiring Russians or third-country nationals . The list includes the United Kingdom , Ukraine , Poland and several other European countries , but the United States is the first for which the ban is being enforced . The move followed U.S. sanctions imposed over Russian interference in the 2020 U.S. presidential election and involvement in the SolarWind hack of federal agencies . Each country expelled 10 of the other 's diplomats . Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said the ban on local employees is in line with convention . " We rarely employ any local personnel in the country where our diplomatic mission is . And thus we have the full right to transfer this practice onto the regulations which manage the work of the U.S. Embassy and their general consulate in the Russian Federation , " he said last month . Yulia Kukula , a university student who was accepted for a PhD program in sustainable energy at Arizona State University , may have found a laborious and costly way around the problem of getting her visa to attend university . After searching online for advice from others in her situation , Kukula was able to sign up for an interview for a visa at the U.S. consulate in neighboring Kazakhstan . But that 's a 2,300-kilometer ( 1,400-mile ) trip from Moscow , and the interview is n't until October . The United States once had three other consulates in Russia -- in Yekaterinburg , Vladivostok and St. Petersburg -- which somewhat eased the travel burden for people seeking visas . But those consulates have closed or stopped providing visas amid diplomatic spats in recent years , in what Alexis Rodzianko , head of the American Chamber of Commerce in Russia , called " a visa war . " That had already placed a burden on the companies in his chamber whose executives needed to travel . " Now it looks like it 's impossible for the indefinite future , " he said . The travel restrictions of the pandemic have shown that videoconferencing ca n't entirely replace the in-person contact of business travel , he said . " They 're especially good for people who already know each other and they 're much less effective for people getting to know each other , " he said . He also sees a larger problem if the visa halt lasts for long . He worries that because the U.S. and Russian governments are adversaries , a lack of contacts between people on both sides could lead to " dehumanization , " adding , " which is very dangerous because that 's what you need to fight a war . " Kuznetsova , who had hoped to celebrate her wedding in the United States this year and had even quit her university in Russia in preparation for the move , feels trapped as a small piece in a large geopolitical dispute . " I understand that there can be problems between countries , it 's normal , it 's happened throughout all of history , but it 's not normal to divide people and separate them , especially when it 's families and the lives of people , " she said . Daniel Kozin And Jim Heintz , The Associated Press <p> A man has been charged with murder in relation to the death of an Alberta woman whose body was found along a remote B.C. highway in a national park last Thursday . Philip Toner faces a charge of second-degree murder , RCMP announced Wednesday , after the body of Brenda Ware , 35 , was found along Highway 93 northeast of Radium , B.C. Toner , 41 , was remanded back to Alberta after an appearance in court in Kelowna , B.C. , on Wednesday morning . Prosecutors had applied to have Toner sent to Alberta as investigators allege Ware was killed in that province . Toner was arrested Tuesday after being identified as a person of interest in Ware 's death . Police have said Toner and Ware were known to each other , but have not released information about the nature of their relationship . Philip Toner is pictured in an RCMP handout photo . Police released Toner 's photo in relation to their investigation into the death of Brenda Ware , 35 , asking anyone who had contact with Toner to contact investigators . ( B.C. RCMP ) Ware lived on a farm near Cremona , Alta . and worked as a hair stylist in nearby Sundre . RCMP initially said she had been travelling from Didsbury , a small town north of Calgary , through Kootenay National Park . Memorial to show support Christie Richard said she first met Ware almost 16 years ago and they worked together at the same salon for nearly a decade . " She always had a cute little smile for everybody and she just was a great all-round person , " Richard said . " One thing I have to say about her is that her work ethic was beyond anything I 've ever seen . Her clients meant the world to her and she would have done anything for them . " Richard said she lost touch with Ware for a few years , but they reconnected last week when she got an unexpected call from Ware , who needed some supplies for her salon . " We had the most amazing chat . I just firmly believe somebody sent her to me to do that . So I 'm thankful for that . " Richard said she 's planned a memorial for Sunday , May 16 to show support for Ware and her family . " I just really felt it was important that there was a place to go that we could show our support and maybe have a little bit of closure , " Richard said " So I 've set up a gazebo in Sundre ... in a campground area just in town . " People are encouraged to drop by with flowers , a card or candle between 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Sunday . Seeking more information RCMP re-released a photo of Toner on Wednesday , asking anyone who had contact with him between May 4 and 11 to call police . " Although a charge has now been laid in relation to this complex , inter-provincial criminal investigation , the investigation is still very much active and ongoing at this time , and we continue to share Toner 's photo in an effort to advance the investigation , " said Supt. Sanjaya Wijayakoon , acting officer-on-charge of the B.C. RCMP 's Major Crime Section . Investigators have asked anyone who saw Ware or her vehicle between May 4 and 6 to contact them at 1-877-987-8477 . Ware is described as being five feet one inch , weighing 108 pounds , with blue eyes and brown hair . She was driving a red 2019 Jeep Cherokee with Alberta licence plate YPC 553 . Police are also looking to speak with anybody who may have encountered hitchhikers in the area or who has dashcam video from Kootenay National Park between May 5 and 6 . <p> Shoulder rubs , inappropriate touching , belittling comments -- these are some of the concerns former students and their parents say were brought to administrators of an Ottawa high school in the years leading up to one of its teachers being charged with sex offences against children . For more than a decade , complaints about math teacher Rick Despatie 's conduct at St. Matthew High School in Orl ? ans went unanswered or dismissed , leaving some in the community feeling ignored and exposed to abuse , they allege . CBC News has spoken with more than a dozen parents and former students of " Mr. Despatie , " who was charged in April with nine counts of sexual offences against children . The charges span from September 2019 to March 2021 . Ottawa police allege Despatie touched and sexually assaulted two girls , and did so while he was in a position of trust . By the time criminal charges were laid against him , Despatie had changed his name to Rick Watkins . The charges against Despatie span from September 2019 to March 2021. ( @Montreal1963/Twitter ) The mother of one recent former student told CBC her daughter was bubbly and outgoing , but changed halfway through Grade 7 , when she suddenly stopped wearing her uniform kilt to school , opting instead to wear pants . " She would come home upset every day , very withdrawn every day . It was like something happened in Grade 7 to turn him on her . Any chance he got , he would belittle her , " the mother said , referring to Despatie . CBC is n't naming the woman to protect the identity of her daughter , who is still a minor . They were just brushing this under the carpet . We felt helpless to do anything about it . - Edouard Larocque , parent The woman believes the alleged treatment by the teacher was reprisal for not " playing his game . " She said her daughter told her about the shoulder rubs in class , and how the teacher would touch girls ' thighs while he helped them with their math . The woman said they went to school administrators multiple times to discuss Despatie 's alleged conduct , and said in March 2020 , they were told the school had received other complaints and that a vice principal would be monitoring the teacher 's class . The woman said Despatie was told to keep the door to his classroom open , leaving her with the impression that school administrators believed they needed to catch him doing something wrong . " So you 're telling me that what my child is telling you is not proof ? " the woman said . " That 's how they made us feel ... I mean myself and multiple other parents , the same allegations , because the exact thing happened to them . " School apologized for handling of complaints The Ottawa Catholic School Board did not reply to a request for comment on how allegations against Despatie were handled . Instead , the board said it 's cooperating with the police investigation . After Despatie was charged , however , the board sent a notice to all parents apologizing to " any former students who have experienced harm by someone in a position of trust . " The board said that the teacher was " immediately " suspended once the allegations came to the school 's attention . But that did n't happen until March 2021 , a month before he was charged and years after some of the complaints . The board has also promised a review of previous complaints against Despatie , who has been a teacher since 1989 . He also coached the school 's basketball teams and operated a private hockey academy for children . Former St. Matthew student Jonathan Mayer says he 's still disturbed by what he says he witnessed in Despatie 's classroom . ( Jean Delisle/CBC ) History of complaints Jonathan Mayer , 26 , recalls the way Despatie treated and interacted with female students being an open secret in the school . Mayer alleged Despatie would drop items during class and have the girls , in their school kilts , pick them up . He said he also witnessed Despatie offering to drive girls home . As a boy , he did n't know what to make of the behaviour . As a man , he said he now knows it was " downright inappropriate . " But other former students said anyone who spoke out would find themselves moved to the back of the class . Jessica , 26 , who has asked CBC to use only her first name , said when she was in Grade 7 she told the school 's principal about Despatie 's behaviour toward female students , which she said included giving Tylenol to girls who were experiencing menstrual cramps . Jessica believes it got back to the teacher , who she said began bullying her . Another parent told CBC Despatie bullied her son . CBC is n't naming either of them to protect her son 's identity . The woman said she wrote down everything her son told her about what he 'd witnessed in class and sent it in an email to the now former school principal , who she said told her during a meeting in 2019 that there had been other complaints about Despatie . She said she was left with the feeling that administrators would rather remove her son from the classroom than deal with the teacher . Chantal and Edouard Larocque say what happened to their son in Despatie 's classroom in 2008 continues to haunt him . The Larocques said they , too , tried many times to address the teacher 's alleged behaviour toward their son , who needed academic help , but were left feeling like it was their son who was the problem . " He told us many times , Despatie goes around the class , he touches the girls , he touches their thighs or rubs their shoulders and leans over and looks down their tops . He told us everybody in the class knows this . Everybody in school sees it , they know it . And so that was very disturbing for us , " Edouard Larocque said . He called it a " betrayal of trust . " Edouard and Chantal Larocque complained to school administrators about Despatie in 2008 , but say their complaints were dismissed . ( Jean Delisle/CBC ) " It 's pretty impossible for us to think that the school administration had no awareness of this and they were tolerating it for whatever reasons , " Larocque said . " And they were just brushing this under the carpet . We felt helpless to do anything about it . " Despatie is next scheduled to appear in court on May 28 . <p> Tanya Froh has already seen her beloved Little Britches rodeo fall victim to the pandemic once . The president of the High River Agricultural Society does n't want to see it happen a second time -- possibly the result of a rogue rodeo and rally held earlier this month near Bowden , Alta . It 's a possible ripple effect rodeo organizers , competitors and stock contractors fear from the so-called " No more lockdowns rodeo rally , " which drew hundreds and resulted in a charge against the organizers for violating the Public Health Act . Some say the event -- marked by anti-maskers , anti-vaxxers and COVID deniers -- made their sport look bad , and that it reinforced long-held stereotypes about Western Canada . " It could be seen as a bit of a black eye , " said Froh . " There were so , so many people that are unhappy with how that has gone . " It was an unfortunate event , said one former rodeo competitor who did n't want his name used , that showcased some " hillbillies and rednecks . " The pandemic has hit the rodeo community hard with cancelled events , fans shut out and sponsorships put on hold . Rodeos can be a lifeline for some small , rural communities , and the sport has been slowly coming back to life . Zeke Thurston rides Peigan Warrior in the saddle bronc event at the 2019 Calgary Stampede . Despite the pandemic , the sport has been slowly coming back to life in 2021 -- but there 's concern a recent , rogue event could threaten that . ( The Canadian Press ) But there 's concern the Bowden event could threaten that recovery . Amateur rodeos -- involving high school kids and " weekend warriors " as old as 60 -- have been held this year under a special exemption from Alberta Health Services ( AHS ) . The indoor and outdoor events have to follow a number of protocols , including no spectators , mandatory mask use and physical distancing . Many amateur rodeo organizers are reluctant to talk about their events -- fearing that , by drawing attention to themselves , they could either lose an existing exemption or jeopardize a future application . Tanya Froh , president of the High River Agricultural Society , hopes reaction to the ' No more lockdowns rodeo rally ' does n't jeopardize other events . ( Facetime ) Alberta High School Rodeo , the Chinook Rodeo Association , the Foothills Cowboy Association and the Wildrose Rodeo Association -- all of which have recently , or soon will , run events -- either declined to comment or did n't respond to interview requests . The Chinook association posted a statement on its website distancing itself from the Bowden event , saying it is focused on working with AHS and others to see the return of the sport . Many stock contractors , the companies that provide the animals for rodeo events , were also reluctant to comment on Bowden . " I distance myself from it . I want nothing to do with it , " said Dustin Duffy , whose family has run Duffy Rodeo for 40 years , when pressed . He preferred talking about his efforts to get the sport back on track . Duffy has been part of a group working with AHS to establish protocols that could see pro and amateur rodeos and other western events return with small crowds this year . He says they 're waiting for the third wave of the pandemic to subside before they can get a clearer picture of what the season might look like . Competitor Colt Cornet says it was important for him to show support for the organizers of the Bowden event . ( Facetime ) " If we follow our protocols , and we follow the guidance of the government ... we are working as a partner with the government to get this stuff back going , " he said . The Canadian Professional Rodeo Association ( CPRA ) , which oversees dozens of events that generate $5.7 million in prize money for competitors , has already cancelled several events this year . It also said it had nothing to do with the Bowden event . The CPRA is instead focused on following the existing rules with an eye to hopefully seeing those restrictions eased . " The world is divided in terms of people that are sick and tired of sitting at home and want to go and compete . I get that , " said Jeff Robson , the CPRA 's general manager . He says the group is planning to livestream some events without fans , but nothing has been finalized . ' Felt like normal ' The Bowden event has some supporters . Colt Cornet , 21 , a professional tie-down roper from Brant , Alta. , competed there . He says it 's how he makes his living and how he pays his bills and he was n't going to miss the opportunity to compete . " People were genuinely happy to be at a rodeo event and so were the contestants , " he said . " It was nice to be back to what felt like normal again . " Cornet said he was there to compete rather than send a political message . Davey Shields , Jr. , a former professional bareback rider who won the Calgary Stampede four times , says if he was still competing there 's a good chance he would have taken part too . " I think people need to start standing up , if they want things to change . If they do n't stand up , nothing 's gon na change , the government 's just gon na keep running us over , " he said his home near Calgary . Meanwhile , Froh and her team at the High River Agricultural Society are working with AHS to secure an exemption for the Little Britches rodeo , which they are hoping to host June 12 . But there 's a lot of uncertainty . The society submitted its exemption application more than a month ago and , aside from getting a confirmation that their application has been received , there 's been no word . " We 've heard nothing , " said Froh . " We 're hoping that we get to carry on as we were . " Bryan Labby is an enterprise reporter with CBC Calgary . If you have a good story idea or tip , you can reach him at bryan.labby@cbc.ca or on Twitter at @CBCBryan . <p> Seven doctors at the Dr. Georges-L. -Dumont University Hospital Centre in Moncton stepped in to cover a nursing shortage in the emergency department over the weekend , an organizer of the effort says . Cardiologist Dr. Luc Cormier called an emergency meeting of his colleagues after the Vitalit ? Health Network announced all ambulances would be directed to the Moncton Hospital because of a lack of staff at the Dumont emergency department . The doctors decided to take turns working in the department to try to get full services running again . Hospital employees have to help one another , Cormier told Information Morning Moncton on Wednesday . " We can and should step up when there is a very difficult situation somewhere , " said Cormier , who is also president of the council of doctors and dentists at the Dumont hospital . Cormier said the hospital has been grappling with a nursing shortage in the ER for at least two years . " Some people describe it almost as a war zone , " he said . " We have patients everywhere . " Right now , the hospital would need to hire 15 nurses for the emergency department to get the ER running at 100 per cent , he said . When asked why the nursing shortage was especially dire this past weekend , Cormier said he did n't know . ' We are not nurses ' Under the direction of nurses throughout last weekend , doctors collaborated with nursing staff to initiate and monitor treatments , provide assessments and take patient care notes . " We are not nurses , " Cormier said . " We do n't have their skill set , but we certainly have a certain number of skills and competencies . " He said the emergency room was calm when the doctors started Saturday because they were only handling walk-ins . But as the weekend went on , the department became a lot busier . ' A sense of relief ' While some staff were surprised by the gesture of doctors volunteering to work as nurses , Cormier said there was also " a sense of relief " from staff because it 's mentally difficult working in the ER with a nursing shortage . " We wanted to of course stabilize our situation and get things rolling as fast as possible , " he said . " Fortunately , that did happen . " No patients had to be transferred to Moncton Hospital and by Sunday evening , regular ambulance service had returned to the Dumont . Cormier said he is hopeful such a nursing shortage wo n't occur again , but staff are worried about the summer , when more people take time off . " We are very anxious about the upcoming months , " he said . System ' crumbling , ' union says In 2019 , the Horizon and Vitalit ? health networks reported a need for an additional 520 registered nurses a year for the next five years . Paula Doucet , the president of the New Brunswick Nurses Union , said she was n't surprised by the lack of nurses in the hospital 's ER . " People are stepping up because they want to save the health-care system in New Brunswick when it 's actually crumbling down around us . " She was to meet with Premier Blaine Higgs and Health Minister Dorothy Shephard this week to talk about the nursing shortage and safer work conditions for nurses . Paula Doucet , president of the New Brunswick Nurses Union , says some hospital services need to be amalgamated to help with the nursing shortage . ( Tori Weldon ) Nurses in New Brunswick are " beyond the point of exhaustion " and have been asking for some type of relief , she said . Doucet has suggested amalgamating some services provided by the two health networks . She said the Dumont hospital , run by Vitalit ? , and the Moncton Hospital , a part of the Horizon network , are struggling with a shortage of staff . " What services can we deliver together and deliver well , rather than try to run two different services with skeletal crews and running the staff in the ground that are there , " she said . Vitalit ? ' s administration operates in French and Horizon 's operates in English . Both are required by the Official Languages Act to be able to serve people in French or English . Fewer French-speaking nurses In a statement to CBC News , Vitalit ? said hospitals across the province are feeling the impact of a national nursing shortage , and recruiting efforts continue . Nationally , there are also more English-speaking nurses than French , and nursing salaries are higher in French- speaking Quebec than in New Brunswick . " We must be innovative in our solutions and pursue our goals according to the mission and vision of the organization , " said Dr. France Desrosiers , president and CEO of Vitalit ? . " It is always possible to strive for excellence in care , even in times of pandemic and human resource shortages . " <p> After seeing the impact of flooding in Fort Simpson and Jean Marie River , N.W.T , the next communities along the Mackenzie River are preparing for a flood year like no other . Last fall , the river froze with unprecedented high water levels , which is now making for a very unpredictable breakup . Half of Fort Simpson was partly under water and hundreds of residents had to be evacuated . Meanwhile , Jean Marie River , a community of about 100 people , was practically abandoned over the weekend as houses filled with water . The school and buildings will need major repairs . The smell of fuel still lingers in the air after the powerful flood water and ice blocks uprooted fuel tanks over the weekend . WATCH A view of the flooding in N.W.T. from above : Now , communities downstream are readying themselves for what could come . Mayor Frank Pope in Norman Wells , N.W.T. , said the amount of flooding took most by surprise . " It is far worse than I thought it could ever be , " Pope said . Though the community does not usually flood , the mayor says they are ready to act as an evacuation site for others . " The Heritage Hotel has told us they will make 20 rooms available in case of emergencies for people who may have to come here and we 're looking at getting cots ... set up in our community hall for families and people who may need other assistance , " he said . " So we 're ready to accommodate people from other communities . " A map showing Fort McPherson , Norman Wells , Tulita , Fort Simpson , Jean Marie River and Hay River . All communities are either currently affected or are potentially at risk of flooding . ( CBC ) Norman Wells currently has eight elders who were evacuated from Fort Simpson in its elders ' centre . " I feel so badly for the people in Hay River , Jean Marie and Fort Simpson and I hope that 's the end of the bad stuff and things will recede and they can get back to normal , " Pope said . He acknowledged there 's a lot of work ahead of them before that . Pope said the town currently has space for at least 100 people , but that number could grow once the community hall is set up and , " if we had to , the school gym . " A road flooded in Fort Simpson , N.W.T , on Saturday , one day before a general evacuation was called for the town . ( Submitted by Val Nahanni ) Further north , Fort McPherson , N.W.T. , has started preparing for flooding by first reviewing its emergency response plans . Senior Administrative Officer Gary McBride said COVID-19 protocols issued by the chief public health officer may slightly alter those plans . McBride said the community hall and school gym would be turned into evacuation shelters if the hamlet was to flood , but it would n't affect the whole community " The only concerns we would have are the people at the lower levels and then there 's a number of homes and camps out by the ferry crossing and these would be at risk as well . " ' More and more unpredictable ' The flooding of Jean Marie River and Fort Simpson also shocked Tim Tomezynski , Tulita 's fire chief . " We 've been notified that the water levels are high and we can see that here as well , but we did not expect to see the results -- the absolute horrific results -- that have happened since breakup and the flooding began . It was a total surprise , " Tomezynski said . " Since my time here , this has been the worst that I have heard of . " A road closed sign and caution tape blocking a flooded road in Fort Simpson . Tim Tomezynski , Tulita 's Fire Chief described the floods as horrific : ' Since my time here , this has been the worst that I have heard of . ' ( Janice Norwegian ) He said after watching what happened in Jean Marie River , they have organized with a company to empty gas tanks at the lower level of the hamlet if the water rises to a certain point . They have also set up markers to know when to alert residents to start preparing for an evacuation and when they need to leave . But with all these measures in place , there is still so much uncertainty about what will actually happen . " It 's really hard to gauge this year because the river is acting different , the ice is acting different . It 's not like the years past , " said Tomezynski , adding the seasons are getting " more and more unpredictable . " Tomezynski said they have people monitoring the river at all times and residents who are at their cabins above and below Tulita are also keeping an eye on things . So far , the Mackenzie has risen about eight feet and there was a bit of cracking ice , but nothing too concerning . " What we 're very worried about ... is if the Bear River breaks . That 's when something could happen where the water could rush up if the ice gets blocked and jammed where the Bear River meets the Mackenzie . That 's where we 'll get some higher water and it could rise at a very rapid rate . " If the town was to flood , Tomezynski said only the residents living on the lower road would be affected . The school gym would be opened as an evacuation centre and he is encouraging people to stay with other families members . " We 're really trying to pre-plan and be as prepared as we can because we know how fast it can happen and the devastation has really made our resolve even higher . " The minister of municipal and community affairs will be meeting with communities in the Sahtu and Mackenzie Delta regions Wednesday afternoon to check in on flood response preparations and see if they have enough support from the territorial government . Tomezynski hopes this will give communities the opportunity to , not only share information on what approaches have been working and what have not , but also be there to support each other . <p> JERUSALEM ( AP ) -- As rockets from Gaza streaked overhead , Arabs and Jews fought each other on the streets below and rioters torched vehicles , a restaurant and a synagogue in one of the worst spasms of communal violence Israel has seen in years . The mayor of the mixed town of Lod , which saw the worst of the violence Tuesday , compared it to a civil war or a Palestinian uprising . Arab experts and activists say the violence was fueled by unrest in Jerusalem that has brought Israel to the brink of another Gaza war , but is rooted in deeper grievances that go back to the founding of the state . The violence comes at a time when Israel 's Arab minority appeared to be gaining new acceptance and influence . Mansour Abbas , the head of an Arab party with Islamist roots , emerged as a kingmaker of sorts after March elections and was poised to play a key role in a coalition that would oust Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his right-wing allies . But in an interview with The Associated Press on Wednesday , Abbas indicated that coalition talks would be put on hold because of the escalating violence . " If there is a cease-fire , we will return to the political track to form a government , " he said . In recent days , Arab citizens of Israel have held mass protests across the country over Israel 's policing of a flashpoint holy site in Jerusalem and plans to evict dozens of Palestinian families in the city following a legal campaign by Jewish settlers . Adding to the tensions are increasingly powerful far-right groups in Israel that won seats in March elections and are allied with Netanyahu . In recent days , far-right politicians have visited the tense east Jerusalem neighborhood where the families are threatened with eviction and staged marches elsewhere in the bitterly contested city . After police broke up a protest Monday night in Lod , a young Arab resident was shot and killed . Police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld said the man was with a group of rioters threatening Jewish homes , and that Jewish residents opened fire in a " life-threatening situation . " He said three people have been detained for questioning and police are investigating . Arab residents of Lod disputed the account , pointing out that the slain man was unarmed . His funeral the next day drew thousands of people and a heavy police presence . Clashes broke out between the two sides , leading to riots in which several vehicles and a synagogue were set ablaze . A 56-year-old Jewish man was severely wounded after Arabs pelted his car with rocks , according to the Magen David Adom emergency service . The violence soon spread to other mixed communities across Israel . In neighboring Ramle , ultra-nationalist Jewish demonstrators vandalized Arab cars . In the northern coastal city of Acre , protesters torched Uri Buri , a famous Jewish-owned seafood restaurant . Magen David Adom said 46 people were wounded in the riots . Rosenfeld said there were several different instances of Arabs attacking Jews , and that 12 police officers were wounded . He said 270 suspects were arrested at 40 locations across the country where vehicles were set on fire and public property was damaged . " The Arabs do n't want us here , but we 're going to stay , " said Avraham Sagron , a Jewish resident of Lod , as he surveyed the charred entrance of the synagogue , the interior of which appeared largely untouched . Netanyahu visited Lod and Acre , where he pledged to " stop the anarchy " and restore order " with an iron fist if needed . " He called on Arab and other community leaders to condemn the violence and act to stop it . Authorities deployed hundreds of police reinforcements to Lod and other areas , including paramilitary border police who usually operate in the occupied West Bank . They also ordered a nighttime curfew in Lod . Arabs say the violence was not directed at Jews , but at religious nationalists with close ties to the settlement movement who have moved into mixed areas in recent years , pushing Arab residents out . Israel 's Arab minority makes up about 20% of the population and are the descendants of Palestinians who stayed in the country after the 1948 war surrounding Israel 's creation , when an estimated 700,000 fled or were driven from their homes in towns like Lod . They have citizenship , including the right to vote , but face widespread discrimination . Arab citizens speak Hebrew and are well-represented in Israel 's medical profession and universities , but they largely identify with the Palestinian cause , leading many Israelis to view them with suspicion . Lod 's Arabs , who make up about a third of the city 's population , are among the poorest communities in Israel . " We 're talking about young people who have no horizon , no dreams , who are unemployed and live in a very difficult reality , " said Dr. Nasreen Haddad Haj-Yahya , the director of the Arab-Jewish relations program at the Israel Democracy Institute , an independent think tank . She said the anger of the last two days was not directed at Lod 's longtime Jewish community but at more ideological recent arrivals . " It 's not because of who they are . It 's because they are trying to Judaize Lod . They are trying to drive out the indigenous Arab residents , " she said . " The young people see it as a threat to their presence in the land , to their existence . " Thabet Abu Rass , the co-director of the Abraham Initiatives , which promotes Jewish-Arab coexistence , said the six Arab members of Lod 's municipal council have been sidelined and the city 's budget heavily favors Jews . He accused Mayor Yair Revivo of inciting against Arabs . Revivo , a member of Netanyahu 's right-wing Likud party , has courted controversy by complaining about the volume of the Muslim call to prayer in Lod and for remarks that appeared to cast its Arab residents as a national security threat . " He should be a mayor for everybody , " said Abu Rass , who lives near Lod and has an office there . " He 's not giving equal services for all residents . " The mayor 's spokesman said he was not available for comment . Earlier , Revivo had urged Arab residents to end the violence , saying : " The day after , we will still have to live here together . " Israeli officials often hold up the Arab minority as proof of their commitment to tolerance , frequently pointing out that Arab citizens enjoy civic rights and freedoms that many Arab states deny their own people . Ghassan Munayyer , a Lod-based activist , says the veneer of coexistence conceals deeper disparities , including in housing and infrastructure , comparing its Arab neighborhoods to " refugee camps . " " The Jews love saying there 's coexistence . They go out to eat in an Arab restaurant and they call it coexistence , " he said . " But they do n't see Arabs as equal human beings who have rights that they have to respect . " Associated Press reporters Moshe Edri in Lod , Israel , and Areej Hazboun in Jerusalem contributed . Joseph Krauss , The Associated Press <p> Even though Jennie Powell was worried about contracting COVID-19 , her mind was made up about vaccines : she was not interested . In fact , she was afraid . " I kept saying to myself and telling everybody , ' My dear , I 'm going to be the last one to take this vaccination . I 'm not taking it . No . ' " Powell , 73 , says she was scared of side effects because years ago she had a severe reaction to the flu shot . Last month , however , she changed her mind . She credits three people : her family doctor , who educated her about vaccine safety , her pastor , who helped ease her fears , and U.S. President Joe Biden . " He 's in my age range , " she told CBC Toronto . Powell monitored the president 's television appearances after he got the Pfizer vaccine to see whether his health deteriorated . Powell credits her family doctor for educating her about vaccine safety and efficacy , which changed her mind about getting vaccinated . ( Evan Mitsui/CBC ) But the real turning point came from her doctor who invited his patients to attend a virtual information session on vaccines . She trusts him , so she signed up . Afterward , he followed up and she promptly booked an appointment near her home in hard-hit Peel Region . " The educational information I received changed my mind completely , " she said . Vaccine hesitancy is decreasing in Canada , according to those who work on the issue and two recent surveys . Health-care workers say it 's due to a combination between more information being communicated to the public , people seeing others get their shots and on-the-ground work addressing hesitancy in various communities . WATCH Jennie Powell explains why she changed her mind and got vaccinated : Powell is proud to say she was vaccinated last month . She now encourages others to get their shots . Her doctor , Noah Ivers , is part of 19 to Zero , a coalition of experts dedicated to building vaccine trust . He 's taken part in dozens of virtual information sessions about vaccine safety and efficacy and says he is seeing hesitancy go down . " I think we 've had success with some but not all , " he said . " When you do have success and you hear about that success ... it 's like when a patient tells you they quit smoking . It 's fantastic . " Ivers says he answers questions , explains why vaccines are safe and debunks miscommunication patients see online while finding common ground . " No matter what they say , if they talk about conspiracy theories , I just hold off responding to that and dig in a little bit further about the real goal that they have , the real source of that concern and find some shared humanity first . " Around 80 per cent of Canadians are on board with vaccines , according to two recent polls . The Proof Strategies 2021 CanTrust Index regularly checks in on Canadians ' trust levels . Its online survey of 1,517 Canadians conducted between May 1-3 shows trust in vaccines rose by 10 per cent in the last four months to 74 per cent . " At a certain point that starts to sink in , " said Josh Cobden , executive vice-president of Proof Strategies , a public relations and communications firm . " There 's also a bit of a herd mentality ... people are seeing their friends , their family , their acquaintances getting vaccinated . " The survey also found vaccine trust is the lowest among younger and low-income Canadians -- at 58 per cent for those with household incomes under $35,000 and 57 per cent for people under 25 . Conducted by Proof Strategies Inc. , it used a national opt-in panel administered by The Logit Group . A randomized sample of this size would yield a margin of error of +/- 2.5 per cent , 19 times out of 20 . Study shows more than 80% of Canadians have been or intend to get vaccinated The Montreal-based Association for Canadian Studies has been tracking vaccine hesitancy since last fall and has reported a steady decline . In October , 63 per cent of those surveyed said they intended to get the vaccine . That number , which now also includes those who have been vaccinated , has gone up to 82 per cent . The association 's president and CEO says within the remaining 18 per cent , there 's a group that is still undecided . Jack Jedwab says over the last three months , that group has moved into the " yes " category . While the numbers have plateaued in the last couple of weeks , there 's reason to suggest they may rise again , he said . " I think we 're going to continue to see that play out in the months ahead whereas the majority , and a growing majority , of people get vaccinated , those who are not vaccinated risk both being stigmatized and or experiencing restrictions connected to that in their lifestyles , " Jedwab said . Karen Renwick , who says she 's " very much into " natural medicine , was n't convinced about getting a vaccine . The 65-year-old lives in Chatham-Kent , Ont. , where case counts are relatively low . After encouragement from her naturopath , she changed her mind . Her 10 grandchildren were also a driving force . " We have n't been able to babysit or cuddle and snuggle with them , " she said . " So that was part of the reason . I needed to do something to help us get out of this pandemic . " The most recent study conducted by The Association for Canadian Studies between May 7 and 9 that polled 1,592 Canadians online found 61 per cent of respondents support vaccine passports . The majority also believe business owners should have the right to limit access to those who have been vaccinated . The survey is in collaboration with Leger and The Canadian Press . A randomized sample of this size would yield a margin of error of +/- 2.51 per cent , 19 times out of 20 . Pregnant nurse waited for more research While registered practical nurse Catherine Serrano was administering vaccines , she was hesitant to get her own because she 's pregnant . As a health-care worker , she was among the first groups to be prioritized to get the shot , but at the time there was a lack of evidence proving the safety of vaccines for pregnant women . " I was n't really sure , because even public health was n't sure , " she said . Serrano 's turning point came in late April when Ontario moved pregnant people to the highest-risk category , which put them in a priority group to book vaccinations . Nurse Catherine Serrano , who is 32 weeks pregnant , gets a dose of the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine from Ruben Rodriguez at The Church Of Pentecost Canada in northwest Toronto . ( Evan Mitsui/CBC ) Serrano got her shot on May 4 -- her birthday -- at the same church pop-up clinic where she was administering vaccines that day . " I feel relieved and excited , " she said afterward . " I feel like I needed and I wanted to get the vaccine just to feel safe for me and my baby . " Ruben Rodriguez , the lead of vaccine outreach at Toronto 's Humber River Hospital , works with Serrano and gave her the shot . While her hesitancy was rooted in a lack of specific evidence , Rodriguez says others ' concerns often come from a lack of information in their language . Vaccine team lead Ruben Rodriguez pushes a trolly of supplies , including doses of the Moderna COVID-19 vaccine , through Humber River Hospital on May 4 . ( Evan Mitsui/CBC ) " For many of these communities , they do n't know how to use the system . They do n't have relationships with the system , " Rodriguez said . " So that increases their wariness and the ability to come to vaccine centres . " Targeted approach needed to address hesitancy and access Sabina Vohra-Miller , who has created a website to provide clear , scientific-based information about COVID-19 and vaccines , says a targeted approach is needed in order to reach those people . She is also the co-founder of the South Asian Health Network , which partners with other community groups to host virtual town halls on vaccine information in several languages . Sabina Vohra-Miller cold calls homes and essential businesses , often speaking in Hindi , to answer questions about vaccines and alert people when a pop-up clinic is operating in their neighbourhood . ( Supplied/Craig Miller ) Vohra-Miller and other volunteers call and visit homes and essential workplaces in provincially designated hotspots to answer questions about vaccines and inform people how to access a pop-up clinic in their neighbourhood . She often speaks in Hindi . " The number of people I spoke to that were n't aware of their eligibility , truthfully broke my heart , " she said . " A lot of these people are just being left behind . " Vohra-Miller says the key to addressing concerns is starting at a place of compassion and respect then providing easy-to-digest information . <p> Rocky Mountain House Health Centre 's emergency department will be closed for a 16-hour period due to a shortage of available doctors . Alberta Health Services said in a release the emergency department closed at 3 p.m Wednesday to allow physicians and staff to treat and discharge remaining patients . The department is set to reopen at 7 a.m . Thursday . " This is a temporary situation , due to COVID-19 impacting the availability of physicians across the zone who are able to provide locum coverage , " states the AHS release . " Central Alberta has a number of physicians who are impacted by COVID-19 or in isolation due to being a close contact , limiting available resources . " Inpatients will not be affected by the closure and on-call coverage will still be provided for obstetrical patients . " AHS exhausted all efforts to find physician coverage during this time , locally , within Central Zone , and provincially , but have not been able to find physicians to cover the ED during this time , " AHS said in the release . Anyone needing urgent emergency medical care in the area is asked to call 911 . Emergency calls will be rerouted to other central Alberta health care facilities , including those in Sylvan Lake , Rimbey , Sundre and Red Deer . Other Alberta hospitals are having similar physician coverage issues ; Fairview Health Complex emergency department was closed for a 12-hour period that ended Wednesday morning and the Elk Point Healthcare Centre emergency will close for 24 hours , starting Thursday morning at 8 a.m. 
@@52724309 <h> Digital Journal <h> Mob ' lynching of Arab ' aired live on Israeli TV <p> This video grab obtained from footage released by Kan 11 public broadcaster shows a far-right Israeli mob attacking who they considered an Arab man , on the seafront promenade of Bat Yam , a town south of Tel Aviv - Copyright AFP MANDEL NGAN <p> This video grab obtained from footage released by Kan 11 public broadcaster shows a far-right Israeli mob attacking who they considered an Arab man , on the seafront promenade of Bat Yam , a town south of Tel Aviv - Copyright AFP MANDEL NGAN <p> Footage of a far-right Israeli mob attacking a man near Tel Aviv they believed to be an Arab was aired live on television Wednesday night , as the Israel-Palestinian conflict raged on . <p> The shocking images show a man being forcibly removed from his car and beaten by a crowd of dozens until he lost consciousness . <p> The attack , broadcast by public broadcaster Kan , took place on the seafront promenade of Bat Yam , south of Israel 's commercial capital Tel Aviv . <p> Police and emergency services did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while the victim lay motionless on his back in the middle of the street . <p> Those in the crowd justified the attack by saying the man was an Arab who had tried to ram the far-right nationalists , but the footage shows a motorist trying to avoid the demonstration . <p> " The victim of the lynching is seriously injured but stable , " Tel Aviv 's Ichilov hospital said in a statement , without revealing his identity . <p> Far-right lawmaker Betzalel Smotrich , head of the " Religious Zionism " party , said he was " ashamed " of the " atrocious cruelty " of the attack . <p> " Jewish brothers , stop ! We can not under any circumstances allow ourselves to take part in violent acts , " he said . <p> Israel 's chief rabbi Yitzhak Yossef called for an end to attacks by Jews . <p> " Innocent citizens are being attacked by terrorist organisations , the heart is heavy and the images difficult , but we can not allow ourselves to be drawn into provocations and aggressions , " he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left-wing Meretz party , said the images were a sign that the country was heading towards " civil war " . <p> Demonstrations by far-right activists broke out Wednesday night in several cities , leading to clashes with police and sometimes Arab Israelis . <p> Advertisement . Scroll to continue reading . <p> Police said they were responding to violent incidents in cities including Acre , Haifa and Lod . <p> In Acre , a mixed Arab-Jewish town in northwest Israel , a Jew was seriously injured by stone throwers , police said . <p> " The rioters in Lod and Acre do not represent Israeli Arabs , the rioters in Bat Yam ... do not represent Israeli Jews , violence will not dictate our lives , " said opposition leader Yair Lapid , who is currently tasked with forming a government after March elections . <p> Palestinian militants in Gaza have launched hundreds of rockets since Monday at Israel , which has carried out air strikes on the crowded coastal enclave . <p> The most intense hostilities in seven years between Israel and Gaza 's armed groups were triggered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ <p> In a statement , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said " what has been happening in the last few days in the cities of Israel is unacceptable " . <p> " Nothing justifies the lynching of Arabs by Jews and nothing justifies the lynching of Jews by Arabs . " 
@@52724361 <h> Digital Journal <p> Arab Israelis hold a funeral for Mousa Hassouna who was killed during clashes with Israeli security forces during a demonstration - Copyright AFP - <p> Arab Israelis hold a funeral for Mousa Hassouna who was killed during clashes with Israeli security forces during a demonstration - Copyright AFP - <p> The Organisation of Islamic Cooperation has condemned Israel and reiterated support for Palestinians , as fatal unrest escalates . <p> The OIC " condemns in the strongest terms the repeated attacks by the Israeli occupation authorities against the Palestinian people " , the pan-Islamic body based in the Saudi city of Jeddah said in a statement on Tuesday after an emergency session . <p> It also condemned " the Israeli occupation forces ' continuation of their colonial programmes -- building settlements , attempting to confiscate Palestinian properties , forceful eviction of Palestinians from their land " . <p> Tensions have soared over Israel 's planned eviction of Palestinians from a district in east Jerusalem , which the Jewish state sees as part of its eternal capital but is considered occupied by the United Nations . <p> Several nights of clashes between Palestinian protesters and Israeli @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Monday night into a barrage of rocket fire from Gaza and deadly Israeli air strikes in retaliation . <p> Israel 's army said more than 600 rockets had been fired since Monday from Gaza towards Israel mainly by Hamas and the Islamic Jihad group . <p> The sharp escalation has killed at least 32 Palestinians in the blockaded Gaza Strip and three Israelis and wounded hundreds more . <p> The OIC 's statement follows strong condemnation of Israel by Saudi Arabia over what it called " blatant attacks carried out by the Israeli occupation forces against the sanctity of Al-Aqsa mosque " . <p> Saudi Arabia 's Foreign Minister Prince Faisal bin Farhan held talks in the holy city of Mecca with his Turkish counterpart Mevlut Cavusoglu on Tuesday , as Ankara seeks to repair relations following the 2018 murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi in Istanbul . <p> The talks also focused on the Israeli-Palestinian issue , Cavusoglu said , adding that efforts were underway to organise a meeting of OIC foreign ministers after the upcoming Muslim festival of Eid al-Fitr. 
@@52724491 <p> Independent and neutral with regard to all political and religious orientations , Tolerance.ca ? aims to promote awareness of the major democratic principles on which tolerance is based . <p> Director / Editor : Victor Teboul , Ph.D . <p> Looking inside ourselves and out at the world Independent and neutral with regard to all political and religious orientations , Tolerance.ca ? aims to promote awareness of the major democratic principles on which tolerance is based . <h> Israel-Palestine conflict : the role of Hamas and Fatah rivalry in latest violence <p> The deadly escalation of violence across Israel , the West Bank and Gaza , in which at least 40 people have been killed and hundreds injured , has demonstrated how the core fault-lines of the conflict between Israelis and Palestinians still run deep . But the dynamics of the violence also underscore internal divisions and crises of leadership on both sides . <p> All information reproduced on the Web pages of www.tolerance.ca ( including articles , images , photographs , and logos ) is protected by intellectual property rights owned by Tolerance.ca ? Inc. or , in certain cases , by its author . Any reproduction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prohibited . In particular , any alteration , widespread distribution , translation , sale , commercial exploitation or reutilization of the contents of the Web site , without the prior written permission of Tolerance.ca ? Inc. , is strictly forbidden . For information , please contact info@tolerance.ca <p> Tolerance.ca ? Inc. is not responsible for external links nor for the contents of the advertisements appearing on Tolerance.ca ? . Ads companies may use information about your visits to this web site in order to provide advertisements about goods and services of interest to you . 
@@52724643 <h> Free Press Head Start for May 12 <p> A special coin to mark Manitoba 's 150th anniversary will be revealed today . <p> A legal challenge of public health orders restricting faith services , filed by several churches and individuals , is set to resume in a Winnipeg courtroom today . <p> Today has been declared a day of mourning in the Russian region where a school shooting happened Tuesday . Nine people , including seven children , were killed , and 23 people remain in hospital . <p> -- Adam Treusch , assignment editor <h> What 's happening today <p> A syringe is filled with a COVID-19 vaccine . ( Jonathan Hayward / The Canadian Press files ) <p> Lowering age limit : The provincial government is set to lower the minimum age for any Manitoban to receive the Pfizer or Moderna COVID-19 vaccine to 18 . Danielle Da Silva reports . Read More <p> Students make switch : Most students in Winnipeg and Brandon will begin learning remotely until at least May 30 amid a spike in COVID-19 cases . Maggie Macintosh reports . Read More <p> COVID-19 case numbers : Manitoba health officials will announce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new cases and no deaths Tuesday after five consecutive days with more than 475 cases . Read More <p> GOP to oust Cheney : Republicans in the U.S. House of Representatives are expected to remove Rep. Liz Cheney from her third-ranking post in the caucus for rebuking former president Donald Trump . Cheney faced a vote for the same issue in February and kept her post . The Associated Press reports . Read More <h> Weather <p> Your forecast : Mainly sunny with a high of 23 C and peak winds from the southwest at 20 km/h beginning this afternoon . <h> In case you missed it <p> Series with Oilers set : The Winnipeg Jets beat the Vancouver Canucks , clinching the third seed in their division and a first-round playoff series with the Edmonton Oilers . It was only the second win in 11 games for the Jets , who had been held to fewer than two goals in six of their previous 10 games . Jeff Hamilton reports . Read More <p> Torture trial : A woman testified in court earlier this week about being beaten and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pritchard reports . Read More <p> Mideast violence escalates : Forty-three people in Gaza and six people in Israel have been killed by rocket attacks in the worst outbreak of violence in the area since the 2014 Gaza war . Read More <h> On this date <p> On May 12 , 1987 : The Winnipeg Free Press reported that a city councillor said city officials should be fired if they could not come up with a good explanation why a massage parlour bylaw was not enforced after it was upheld by the Supreme Court . Four Fit Stop locations in Winnipeg closed abruptly , shutting out members . Prime minister Brian Mulroney won opposition parties ' support for a tentative deal with the provinces on the Constitution . <h> Today 's front page <p> Get the full story : Read today 's e-edition of the Winnipeg Free Press Read More 
@@52726935 <p> This copy is for your personal non-commercial use only . To order presentation-ready copies of Toronto Star content for distribution to colleagues , clients or customers , or inquire about permissions/licensing , please go to : **27;2632;TOOLONG <p> Jewish nationalist demonstrators look at a barrage of rockets fired from the Gaza Strip toward central Israel , in the Israeli town of Ramla , Tuesday , May 11 , 2021 . The protesters had gathered in an attempted show of strength in a predominantly Arab neighborhood . <h> As ethnic violence rocks Israel , Arabs cite deep grievances <p> JK <p> By Joseph KraussThe Associated Press <p> Wed. , May 12 , 2021timer6 min. read <p> updateArticle was updated 7 hrs ago <p> JERUSALEM ( AP ) -- As rockets from Gaza streaked overhead , Arabs and Jews fought each other on the streets below and rioters torched vehicles , a restaurant and a synagogue in one of the worst spasms of communal violence Israel has seen in years . <p> The mayor of the mixed town of Lod , which saw the worst of the violence Tuesday , compared it to a civil war or a Palestinian uprising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by unrest in Jerusalem that has brought Israel to the brink of another Gaza war , but is rooted in deeper grievances that go back to the founding of the state . <p> Violence flared again Wednesday night with a wave of apparent revenge attacks . In Bat Yam , a Tel Aviv suburb , a large crowd of ultranationalist Israelis pulled a man from a car who they thought was Arab and beat him until he lay on the ground motionless and bloodied . A hospital said he 's in serious condition without identifying him . <p> Earlier , a group of black-clad Israelis smashed the windows of an Arab-owned ice cream shop in Bat Yam and ultranationalists could be seen chanting , " Death to Arabs ! " on live television during a standoff with Border Police . In the northern city of Tiberias , video uploaded to social media appeared to show flag-waving Israelis attacking a car . <p> Israel 's Channel 13 quoted a senior police officer as saying Arabs are suspected of attacking and seriously wounding a Jewish man in the coastal city of Acre @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ television interview , Israeli President Reuven Rivlin , whose figurehead office is meant to serve as the nation 's moral compass , said the country was gripped by civil war and urged citizens to " stop this madness . " <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu called on both Jews and Arabs to cease attacks on each other : " It does n't matter to me that your blood is boiling . You ca n't take the law in your hands , " he said . <p> Police said they arrested nearly 400 people allegedly " involved in riots and disturbances " across the country Wednesday . <p> But in an interview with The Associated Press on Wednesday , Abbas indicated that coalition talks would be put on hold because of the escalating violence . " If there is a cease-fire , we will return to the political track to form a government , " he said . <p> Adding to the tensions are increasingly powerful far-right groups in Israel that won seats in March elections and are allied with Netanyahu . In recent days , far-right politicians have visited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with eviction and staged marches elsewhere in the bitterly contested city . <p> After police broke up a protest Monday night in Lod , a young Arab resident was shot and killed . Police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld said the man was with a group of rioters threatening Jewish homes , and that Jewish residents opened fire in a " life-threatening situation . " He said three people have been detained for questioning and police are investigating . Arab residents of Lod disputed the account , pointing out that the slain man was unarmed . <p> His funeral the next day drew thousands of people and a heavy police presence . Clashes broke out between the two sides , leading to riots in which several vehicles and a synagogue were set ablaze . A 56-year-old Jewish man was severely wounded after Arabs pelted his car with rocks , according to the Magen David Adom emergency service . <p> The violence soon spread to other mixed communities across Israel . In neighboring Ramle , ultra-nationalist Jewish demonstrators vandalized Arab cars . In Acre , protesters torched Uri Buri , a famous Jewish-owned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wounded in the riots . <p> Rosenfeld said there were several different instances of Arabs attacking Jews , and that 12 police officers were wounded . He said 270 suspects were arrested at 40 locations across the country where vehicles were set on fire and public property was damaged . <p> " The Arabs do n't want us here , but we 're going to stay , " said Avraham Sagron , a Jewish resident of Lod , as he surveyed the charred entrance of the synagogue , the interior of which appeared largely untouched . <p> Netanyahu visited Lod and Acre , where he pledged to " stop the anarchy " and restore order " with an iron fist if needed . " He called on Arab and other community leaders to condemn the violence and act to stop it . <p> Authorities deployed hundreds of police reinforcements to Lod and other areas , including paramilitary border police who usually operate in the occupied West Bank . They also ordered a nighttime curfew in Lod . <p> Arabs say the violence of the past two days was not directed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the settlement movement who have moved into mixed areas in recent years , pushing Arab residents out . <p> Israel 's Arab minority makes up about 20% of the population and are the descendants of Palestinians who stayed in the country after the 1948 war surrounding Israel 's creation , when an estimated 700,000 fled or were driven from their homes in towns like Lod . They have citizenship , including the right to vote , but face widespread discrimination . <h> Loading ... <p> Loading ... Loading ... Loading ... Loading ... Loadi ... Arab citizens speak Hebrew and are well-represented in Israel 's medical profession and universities , but they largely identify with the Palestinian cause , leading many Israelis to view them with suspicion . Lod 's Arabs , who make up about a third of the city 's population , are among the poorest communities in Israel . <p> " We 're talking about young people who have no horizon , no dreams , who are unemployed and live in a very difficult reality , " said Dr. Nasreen Haddad Haj-Yahya , the director of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an independent think tank . <p> She said the anger of the last two days was not directed at Lod 's longtime Jewish community but at more ideological recent arrivals . <p> " It 's not because of who they are . It 's because they are trying to Judaize Lod . They are trying to drive out the indigenous Arab residents , " she said . " The young people see it as a threat to their presence in the land , to their existence . " <p> Thabet Abu Rass , the co-director of the Abraham Initiatives , which promotes Jewish-Arab coexistence , said the six Arab members of Lod 's municipal council have been sidelined and the city 's budget heavily favors Jews . He accused Mayor Yair Revivo of inciting against Arabs . <p> " He should be a mayor for everybody , " said Abu Rass , who lives near Lod and has an office there . " He 's not giving equal services for all residents . " <p> The mayor 's spokesman said he was not available for comment . Earlier , Revivo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " The day after , we will still have to live here together . " <p> Israeli officials often hold up the Arab minority as proof of their commitment to tolerance , frequently pointing out that Arab citizens enjoy civic rights and freedoms that many Arab states deny their own people . <p> Ghassan Munayyer , a Lod-based activist , says the veneer of coexistence conceals deeper disparities , including in housing and infrastructure , comparing its Arab neighborhoods to " refugee camps . " <p> " The Jews love saying there 's coexistence . They go out to eat in an Arab restaurant and they call it coexistence , " he said . " But they do n't see Arabs as equal human beings who have rights that they have to respect . " <h> More from The Standard &amp; Partners <h> More News <h> Top Stories <p> Copyright owned or licensed by Toronto Star Newspapers Limited . All rights reserved . Republication or distribution of this content is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Toronto Star Newspapers Limited and/or its licensors . To order copies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 
@@52727600 <h> Israel steps up Gaza offensive , kills senior Hamas figures <p> GAZA CITY , Gaza Strip ( AP ) -- Israel on Wednesday pressed ahead with a fierce military offensive in the Gaza Strip , killing as many as 10 senior Hamas military figures and toppling a pair of high-rise towers housing Hamas facilities in airstrikes . <p> GAZA CITY , Gaza Strip ( AP ) -- Israel on Wednesday pressed ahead with a fierce military offensive in the Gaza Strip , killing as many as 10 senior Hamas military figures and toppling a pair of high-rise towers housing Hamas facilities in airstrikes . The Islamic militant group showed no signs of backing down and fired hundreds of rockets at Israeli cities . <p> In just three days , this latest round of fighting between the bitter enemies has already begun to resemble -- and even exceed -- a devastating 50-day war in 2014 . Like in that previous war , neither side appears to have an exit strategy . <p> But there are key differences . The fighting has triggered the worst Jewish-Arab violence inside Israel in decades . And looming in the background is an international @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ barrage of airstrikes just after sunrise , striking dozens of targets in several minutes that set off bone-rattling explosions across Gaza . Airstrikes continued throughout the day , filling the sky with pillars of smoke . <p> At nightfall , the streets of Gaza City resembled a ghost town as people huddled indoors on the final night of Islam 's holiest month of Ramadan . The evening , followed by the Eid al-Fitr holiday , is usually a time of vibrant night life , shopping and crowded restaurants . <p> " There is nowhere to run . There is nowhere to hide , " said Zeyad Khattab , a 44-year-old pharmacist who fled with a dozen other relatives to a family home in central Gaza after bombs pounded his apartment building in Gaza City . " That terror is impossible to describe . " <p> Gaza militants continued to bombard Israel with nonstop rocket fire throughout the day and into early Thursday . The attacks brought life to a standstill in southern communities near Gaza , but also reached as far north as the Tel Aviv area , about 70 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a second straight day . <p> The military said sirens also wailed in northern Israel 's Emek area , or Jezreel Valley , the farthest the effects of Gaza rockets have reached since 2014 . The Israeli army also shared footage showing a rocket impact between apartment towers in the Tel Aviv suburb of Petah Tikva early Thursday , apparently sparking a large fire . It said the strike left people wounded and caused " significant damage . " <p> " We 're coping , sitting at home , hoping it will be OK , " said Motti Haim , a resident of the central town of Beer Yaakov and father of two children . " It 's not simple running to the shelter . It 's not easy with the kids . " <p> Gaza 's Health Ministry said the death toll rose to 69 Palestinians , including 16 children and six women . Islamic Jihad confirmed the deaths of seven militants , while Hamas acknowledged that a top commander and several other members were killed . <p> Rescuers pulled the bodies of a man and his wife from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the latest Israeli airstrikes early Thursday , relatives said . <p> A total of seven people have been killed in Israel , including four people who died on Wednesday . Among them were a soldier killed by an anti-tank missile and a 6-year-old child hit in a rocket attack . <p> The Israeli military claims the number of militants killed so far is much higher than Hamas has acknowledged . <p> Lt. Col. Jonathan Conricus , a military spokesman , said at least 14 militants were killed Wednesday -- including 10 members of the " top management of Hamas " and four weapons experts . Altogether , he claimed some 30 militants have been killed since the fighting began . <p> More raids conducted early Thursday were aimed at several " strategically significant " facilities for Hamas , including a bank and a compound for a naval squad , the military said . <p> While United Nations and Egyptian officials have said that cease-fire efforts are underway , there were no signs of progress . Israeli television 's Channel 12 reported late Wednesday that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U.N . Secretary-General Antonio Guterres condemned the " indiscriminate launching of rockets " from civilian areas in Gaza toward Israeli population centers , but he also urged Israel to show " maximum restraint . " President Joe Biden called Netanyahu to support Israel 's right to defend itself and Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken said he was sending a senior diplomat to the region to try to calm tensions . <p> The current eruption of violence began a month ago in Jerusalem , where heavy-handed Israeli police tactics during Ramadan and the threatened eviction of dozens of Palestinian families by Jewish settlers ignited protests and clashes with police . A focal point was the Al-Aqsa Mosque , built on a hilltop compound that is revered by Jews and Muslims , where police fired tear gas and stun grenades at protesters who threw chairs and stones at them . <p> Hamas , claiming to be defending Jerusalem , launched a barrage of rockets at the city late Monday , setting off days of fighting . <p> The Israeli military says militants have fired about 1,500 rockets in just three days @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entire 2014 war . <p> Israel , meanwhile , has struck over 350 targets in Gaza , a tiny territory where 2 million Palestinians have lived under a crippling Israeli-Egyptian blockade since Hamas took power in 2007 . Two infantry brigades were sent to the area , indicating preparations for a possible ground invasion . <p> In tactics echoing past wars , Israel has begun to target senior members of Hamas ' military wing . It also has flattened three high-rise buildings in a tactic that has drawn international scrutiny in the past . <p> Israel says the buildings all housed Hamas operations centers , but they also included residential apartments and businesses . In all cases , Israel fired warning shots , allowing people to flee , and there were no reports of casualties . <p> The fighting has set off violent clashes between Arabs and Jews in Israel , in scenes unseen since 2000 . Netanyahu warned that he was prepared to use an " iron fist if necessary " to calm the violence . <p> But ugly clashes erupted across the country late Wednesday . Jewish and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the epicenter of the troubles , despite a state of emergency and nighttime curfew . In nearby Bat Yam , a mob of Jewish nationalists attacked an Arab motorist , dragged him from his car and beat him until he was motionless . <p> In the occupied West Bank , the Israeli military said it thwarted a Palestinian shooting attack that wounded two people . The Palestinian Health Ministry said the suspected gunman was killed . No details were immediately available . <p> Still unclear is how the fighting in Gaza will affect Netanyahu 's political future . He failed to form a government coalition after inconclusive parliamentary elections in March , and now his political rivals have three weeks to try to form one . <p> His rivals have courted a small Islamist Arab party . But the longer the fighting lasts , the more it could hamper their attempts at forming a coalition . It could also boost Netanyahu if another election is held , since security is his strong suit with the public . <p> Israel and Hamas have fought three wars since the Islamic militant group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . <p> The International Criminal Court has launched an investigation into possible war crimes by Israel and Hamas . In a brief statement , ICC prosecutor Fatou Bensouda said she had noted " with great concern " the escalation of violence and " the possible commission of crimes . " <p> The ICC is looking into Israeli actions in past wars in Gaza . Israel is not a member of the court , does not recognize the ICC 's jurisdiction and rejects the accusations . But in theory , the ICC could issue warrants and try to arrest Israeli suspects while they are traveling overseas . <p> Conricus , the military spokesman , said Israeli forces respect international laws on armed conflict and do their utmost to minimize civilian casualties . Israel blames Hamas for civilian casualties because the group fires rockets from residential areas . <p> Emanuel Gross , a professor emeritus the University of Haifa law school , said Israel should " take into consideration the concerns of the ICC . " But he said he believes the military is on solid legal ground while rockets are striking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of self defense , " he said . " If you are attacked by a terrorist group , you defend yourself . " 
@@52728520 <h> Judges urged not to jail ex-diplomat guilty of contempt over Salmond trial blog <p> Lucinda Cameron , PA Scotland <p> May 7 , 2021 , 5:21 a.m. *3 min read <p> Judges have been urged not to jail a former diplomat who was found to be in contempt of court after covering the Alex Salmond trial on his blog . <p> Craig Murray , a former UK ambassador to Uzbekistan , attended two days of Mr Salmond 's trial in March 2020 , sitting in the public gallery , and wrote about it on his website . <p> The former first minister was cleared at the High Court in Edinburgh of 13 sexual assault charges involving nine women following his trial . <p> Following previous hearings , judges on March 25 this year found that Murray , 62 , was in contempt of court , relating to material capable of identifying four complainers . <p> At a virtual hearing of the High Court in Edinburgh on Friday , Roddy Dunlop QC , representing Murray , said there is little indication of any actual identification having happened as a result of the articles , and said there was nothing amounting to actual interference in the case such as the trial having to be adjourned . <p> He said : " The simple fact is that some complainers seem to have been identified as a result of comments made in publications made by other entities with greater reach , and in so far as there is any instance of identification being made as a result of what Mr Murray did , it is limited . <p> " There are tweets that follow on what Mr Murray did , whether or not they amount to people just weighing in with their own identification as opposed to actually having completed the jigsaw we do not know and one can not know , but my point is there is little indication of any actual identification having happened as a result of this . " <p> He said the posts were redacted when the contempt proceedings were launched to " neutralise " the problems . <p> The Lord Justice Clerk Lady Dorrian , who was hearing the case along with Lord Menzies and Lord Turnbull , said : " The reality remains that for complainers in other cases , the fact that this has happened in such a high profile sexual offences case can only be detrimental . " <p> In his mitigation submission , Mr Dunlop said Murray is a man of " impeccable character " and previously " untarnished reputation " , and said it is no exaggeration to say the retired diplomat is already suffering " significant punishment " from the impact of the case . <p> Mr Dunlop said sending Murray to prison would be " harsh to the point of being disproportionate " , and he urged judges to deal with the matter by way of a fine . <p> He said : " Allowing that the finding of contempt has been ruled by this court to be justified the question is whether , given all the circumstances , that justification extends yet further to countenancing imprisonment , to taking a retired diplomat with an exemplary background away from his wife , his 11-year-old son , and his baby . <p> " For what purpose ? The response might will be " pour decourager les autres " ( to discourage others ) . If that is the purpose , job done . Mr Murray 's blogging is inevitably hamstrung by the ruling itself , the decision is and has been widely publicised . <p> " If anyone out there thinks that playing with fire in the field of jigsaw identification is a zero sum game , their views have been disabused by the ruling this court has already made . " <h> Latest Stories <p> A small town congregation 's defiance of COVID-19 public health orders and the community 's surveillance of parishioners have created a toxic environment that could come to a head Friday when a judge decides whether to lock the doors of the Church of God in Aylmer , Ont . The church , Pastor Henry Hildenbrandt and Assistant Pastor Patrick Wall were found in contempt of court for continuing in-person services despite a court order to stop to meet COVID-19 restrictions . Ontario Superior Court Justice Bruce Thomas must now decide what penalty , if any , to impose . " This whole thing has turned one small community in Ontario into a cauldron of hostility , one that has pitted neighbour against neighbour . I am deeply concerned about the toxic environment in Aylmer , " Thomas told virtual court Thursday . " This congregation and these people , although different than the mainstream population of southwestern Ontario , were living in peace and tranquility in this community in the past . Now , I see a splintered community , a fractious community . " The town church is one of several in Canada that are challenging the constitutionality of public health orders that prohibit gatherings , including church services . Those will be heard in October . Locking the doors of churches in Canada is a poignant symbol of our democracy under threat . - Lisa Bildy , Aylmer , Ont. , church 's lawyer At the beginning of the pandemic last year , the southwestern Ontario church held drive-in services , which were prohibited by provincial law , and then escalated to 200-person gatherings within the building , with no physical distancing or mask wearing . Hildebrandt 's sermons , in front of a large congregation , are available on YouTube and Facebook as shown in this image . ( Church of God at Aylmer/YouTube ) The church , and its pastors and parishioners have been ticketed multiple times by Aylmer police . But physically locking all the exterior doors , as the Crown has asked , goes too far , argued Lisa Bildy , a lawyer with the Justice Centre for Constitutional Freedoms , which represents the church . " Locking the doors of churches in Canada is a poignant symbol of our democracy under threat , " she said . " This was two weeks to flatten the curve and has become 60 weeks and counting . No outbreaks have been traced to the church ... I do n't think we should be locking church doors in this country . Church is fundamental to these people . " Welcomes further fines Many church members come from a Mennonite tradition , speak Low German ( a variety or dialect of the language ) , and dress in modest clothing as a way to signal that church for them is way of life , not just something to attend on Sunday , Bildy said . They Church of God are flouting the law and public health orders . Locking the door is the only way to ensure they wo n't access the building . - Connie Vernon , Crown lawyer " Pastor Hildebrandt did n't set out to be defiant , he did n't set out to be a figurehead in a movement . He wanted his parishioners to have some community , " she said . He has now embraced the role of figurehead , said Bildy . Since the beginning of the pandemic , Hildebrandt has embraced the No More Lockdowns movement , including a 2,000-person rally against COVID-19 restrictions in the small town . He has preached that the virus does n't exist and encouraged defiance of provincial lockdown rules . His sermons , in front of a large congregation , are available on YouTube and Facebook . The church and its pastors have " committed themselves to publicly and continuously defy the public health measures , " said Crown lawyer Connie Vernon in her arguments to the court . " They have stated clearly that they plan to breach any court order , they have encouraged civil disobedience , they 've encouraged others to come to the church , " she said . " It is clear that Hildebrandt welcomes further fines and will continue to open the church . They are flouting the law and public health orders . Locking the door is the only way to ensure they wo n't access the building . There is nothing to suggest that they will stop inviting people in . " The Crown wants : All exterior doors locked until there are no more public health orders . For Hildebrandt and his assistant pastor to be fined $10,000 each . For the church to be fined $50,000 . For the church to pay for $100,000 in court fees . Bildy argued the court fees are much too steep and the monetary penalties too high . If the doors are locked , the pastor should be allowed to access the building sometimes to check on it , and they should be unlocked when public health orders are less restrictive . Hundreds of people stand by the side of the main street in Aylmer , Ont. , before a rally and march to protest public health measures . ( Kate Dubinski/CBC ) Thomas said he will make his decision Thursday , but added he does n't see Hildebrandt as a passive player in the movement against public health orders . " He has chosen the role he now has . He has chosen to be the spokesperson for the infringement of rights , " said Thomas . " He uses his pulpit as a pulpit to exert an argument to others to follow his example . It 's not about the word of his God , it 's also about the concerns that he is exhorting others to breach the regulations . He 's chosen to be the face , front and centre of this movement . " <p> SEVEROMORSK , Russia ( AP ) -- A top Russian admiral complained Thursday about increased NATO military activities near the country 's borders , describing them as a threat to regional security . Adm . Alexander Moiseyev , the commander of Russia 's Northern Fleet , said that NATO navy ships ' presence in the Barents Sea and the Norwegian Sea have reached levels unseen since World War II . Speaking to reporters onboard the Northern Fleet 's flagship , the Pyotr Veliky ( Peter the Great ) missile cruiser , at its Arctic base of Severomorsk , Moiseyev charged that NATO drills have edged closer to Russian borders , and noted increasingly frequent flights by U.S. nuclear-capable strategic bombers . " Such actions are provocative and have a negative impact on regional security , " Moiseyev said . He voiced particular concern about the U.S. military assets on the territory of NATO ally Norway that borders Russia , charging that it has led to an " increase of the conflict potential in the Arctic . " Ties between Russia and the West have plummeted to post-Cold War lows after the 2014 Russian annexation of Ukraine 's Crimean Peninsula and Moscow 's support for a separatist insurgency in eastern Ukraine . Moscow has repeatedly voiced concern over the deployment of NATO forces near Russian borders . Russia and the alliance also have blamed each other for conducting destabilizing military exercises near the borders . Last month , a massive build-up of Russian troops alongside the Ukrainian border fueled concerns in Ukraine and the West . The Kremlin rejected Western worries , charging that the troops do n't threaten anyone , but it also warned Ukrainian authorities against trying to use force to reclaim control of the rebel east . The Associated Press <p> BERLIN ( AP ) -- Germany 's leading Jewish group on Thursday sharply condemned protests in front of a synagogue in the western city of Gelsenkirchen as " pure antisemitism . " Several other German cities including Berlin , Hamburg and Hannover have seen anti-Israeli protests over the past few days . At least two synagogues were attacked , and several Israeli flags were torn down and burned since the latest eruption of violence in Israel and the Gaza Strip . The Central Council of Jews in Germany tweeted a video of dozens of protesters in Gelsenkirchen waving Palestinian and Turkish flags and yelling expletives about Jews . " Jew hatred in the middle of Gelsenkirchen in front of the synagogue . The times in which Jews were cursed in the middle of the street should have long been over . This is pure antisemitism , nothing else ! " the group tweeted . The German government repeatedly condemned anti-Israeli and antisemitic attacks earlier this week and said that " the perpetrators must be found and held responsible and Jewish institutions must be protected thoroughly . " On Thursday , Foreign Minister Heiko Maas told Funke Media Group that " there must be zero tolerance for attacks on synagogues in our country . " " All of us are called on to make it very clear that we do not accept if Jews in Germany are made responsible for the events in the Middle East -- neither in the streets nor on social media , " Maas added . The protests in Gelsenkirchen on Wednesday were dispersed by police , German news agency dpa reported , but authorities reported further incidents in other parts of the country . Some cities which had hoisted Israeli flags in front of their city halls on Wednesday in remembrance of the start of German-Israeli diplomatic relations on May 12 , 1965 , reported that the flags were torn down and sometimes burned . An Israeli flag in front of a city hall in the western town of Solingen was torn and burnt and two Israeli flags in Berlin were also torn down late Wednesday night . On Tuesday night , police stopped 13 suspects in the western city of Muenster near a synagogue after an Israeli flag was burned there . In the western city of Bonn , police said several people damaged the entrance of a synagogue with stones and investigators found a burned flag as well . In nearby Duesseldorf , somebody burned garbage on top of a memorial for a former synagogue . Several cities and states in Germany have since upped their security and raised police presence in front of Jewish institutions , dpa reported . In Berlin , some 100 people also assembled for a pro-Israel rally on Wednesday night in front of the city 's landmark Brandenburg Gate waving Israeli flags and holding a banner saying " We stand with Israel -- Now and Forever . " Kirsten Grieshaber , The Associated Press <p> A driver who travelled from their home in North Vancouver to Vancouver Island has become the first person in B.C. to be fined for breaking current restrictions on non-essential travel . RCMP initially pulled over the driver , who was not identified , for driving offences on southern Vancouver Island on May 1 . An officer spoke with the driver and determined their reason for being on the Island was not essential . The officer issued a $575 ticket under the Emergency Program Act and told the driver " to return to the Lower Mainland immediately , " according to a statement . The driver was also ticketed for the initial driving offences . Travel boundaries Non-essential travel in B.C. is limited to three regions , which are areas covered by the Fraser and Vancouver Coastal health authorities ; the Northern and Interior health authorities ; and Vancouver Island . RCMP has set up road checks on highway corridors connecting the mainland regional zones to uphold the rules . No tickets have been issued at any of the checks established so far on highways 1 , 3 , 5 and 99 . There are no check stops in place around BC Ferries terminals . Ferry staff are being instructed to ask passengers for their reason for travelling , and are refusing to accept bookings for recreational vehicles such as campers and trailers . RCMP Supt. Holly Turton , the officer in charge of the B.C. Highway Patrol Unit said many non-essential travellers stopped at the highway checks have turned around voluntarily after RCMP refreshed them on the rules . " I 've been very impressed by the fact the people we 've encountered at these road checks , by and large the vast , vast majority , are clearly engaging in essential travel . We 've had to turn around very few people , " Turton said . <p> A recently published study suggests that one of the world 's most common pesticides may be contributing to the decline of one of its most-loved butterflies . University of Guelph researcher Ryan Norris conducted one of the first real-world studies on monarch butterflies and so-called neonic pesticides . He says the chemical seems to reduce the number of eggs that successfully hatch . " It 's the first field evidence that neonics can have a negative impact on larval survival of monarchs , " Norris said in an interview Wednesday . Monarchs undergo one of nature 's most remarkable migrations , fluttering all the way from Canada to Mexico and back . But their numbers have declined more that 80 per cent over the last two decades and scientists are trying to find out why . Neonicotinoid pesticides are widely applied to common crops such as corn and often drift onto other plants , including milkweed , which monarchs depend on for nesting and food . Monarchs actually prefer milkweed growing alongside or within cultivated fields , Norris said . " We do n't know why . But that 's where they get hit the hardest ( with neonics ) . " The research , published in the Journal of Animal Ecology , involved Norris and his colleagues working with a farmer near Halton , Ont . The farmer planted one half of a small plot with corn seed that had only been treated with a fungicide and the other half with corn that had been coated with clothianidin , a common neonic . Milkweed was deliberately planted along with the corn to attract monarchs . Over two years , the scientists found that monarch eggs on the neonic plot had a three per cent less chance of successfully hatching . It sounds small , said Norris , but with the large number of eggs monarchs lay , it adds up to big numbers . " ( That ) could easily mean millions of larvae that are dying each year because of the neonics . " Neonics are increasingly implicated in plummeting numbers of pollinators such as bees . The chemicals are banned in the European Union and in some U.S. states . In 2018 , Health Canada proposed to tightly restrict the use of neonics , including a ban on all outdoor applications of clothianidin . It is currently re-evaluating that stance and is expected to announce an updated decision next spring . Millions of monarchs migrate each winter to a small area of mountaintop forest in central Mexico , where scientists estimate their population by measuring the area of trees turned orange by the clustering butterflies . That area has shrunk to just over two hectares , down 26 per cent from last year , says the Centre for Biological Diversity . Monarchs are considered a species of special concern in both Canada and Mexico . The black-and-orange butterflies face many threats other than pesticides , Norris said , but pesticides seem to be part of the problem . " This is yet another piece of evidence of how neonics can influence the biodiversity on our landscape , " he said . " They are having a serious negative impact . " Although monarchs are n't important pollinators , that 's not the only measure of a species ' value , Norris suggested . " Monarchs , in many people 's minds , represent butterflies , " he said . " When they think butterflies , they think monarchs . " They serve a really important role as a connection for people to butterflies and to nature . " This report by The Canadian Press was first published May 13 , 2021 . Bob Weber , The Canadian Press <p> Ottawa has announced $2.73 million to build affordable housing for people experiencing homelessness in one of the largest Mi'kmaw communities in Nova Scotia . The 20-unit project in the Sipekne'katik First Nation will be constructed through the federal rapid housing initiative , with half of the units targeted to women and children . " This 20 that will go into our community , we 're very grateful and we 're happy to have , " Sipekne'katik Chief Mike Sack said Thursday in a video conference . Sack said the contribution will help the housing crisis in Sipekne'katik , but there is still a lot of work that needs to be done to solve the issue . A home needs assessment completed two years ago found houses in the community needed $10 million in improvements to bring them up to standards , he said . The First Nation 's housing list also indicated a need for 395 homes . A first step " This is an important investment , " Kody Blois , the Liberal MP for Kings-Hants , said during the conference . " We know that this is not going to solve all issues in Sipekne'katik , but we have to start somewhere . " The project received $681,340 from the Sipekne'katik First Nation , including $100,000 provided to Sipekne'katik by Indigenous Services Canada . Last month , the federal government announced $3.16 million in funding for 24 affordable housing units in the Paqtnkek Mi'kmaw Nation and We'koqma'q First Nation as part of the rapid housing initiative . The $1-billion initiative was announced last fall to initially create up to 3,000 permanent , affordable housing units across the country . An additional $1.5 billion for the initiative was included in the recent federal budget . Original target tripled " This new funding of $1.5 billion in budget 2021 will more than triple our total target to over 9,200 units built under the rapid housing initiative , " said Ahmed Hussen , federal minister of families , children and social development . " That means over 9,000 families will now have a safe and affordable place to call home . " Hussen said at least 25 per cent of the new funding will go toward women-focused housing projects . All units will be constructed within 12 months of when funding is provided to the applicants . " Together we 'll ensure that most vulnerable members of our communities are safe and sound , " he said . HRM housing projects Last December , Halifax Mayor Mike Savage said roughly $8.6 million would be used to fund rapid housing initiatives in the municipality . The funding would be shared among Adsum House , the North End Community Health Association and the Mi'kmaw Native Friendship Centre . MORE TOP STORIES <p> The Maverick Party sees an opportunity as Conservative Leader Erin O'Toole suffers from low popularity in Alberta -- and the party 's interim leader is sticking around to see that momentum through the next election . The western separatist party is looking for ways to expand its presence in the province in the wake of a difficult few months for the Conservative Party of Canada ( CPC ) . The CPC is still dominant in Alberta , but a recent poll commissioned by CBC News and conducted by Janet Brown Opinion Research found people in the province are n't keen on its leader . Only 11 per cent of respondents said they were highly impressed with O'Toole , compared to 16 per cent for NDP Leader Jagmeet Singh and 17 per cent for Prime Minister Justin Trudeau . Support for the party in Alberta is down as well , though not as dramatically . Asked how they would vote if an election were held immediately , 53 per cent of decided voters said they 'd pick the Conservatives . That 's down from the 69 per cent of the Alberta vote the party received in the last federal election . Maverick interim leader Jay Hill sees those numbers as an opportunity . The party is discussing whether to expand its presence in more ridings than the 49 originally targetted . " O'Toole has betrayed the people of Western Canada , the conservatives that supported him . And so people are saying to me , ' Why would n't you run against a Conservative in every riding in Western Canada where you can possibly get organized , ' " the former federal MP told CBC News . He was referring to O'Toole 's climate plan , which included a consumer price on carbon . Hill would n't put out a firm number but said it would likely mirror the Reform Party 's 1998 showing of 72 candidates in the 88 Western ridings at the time . " Would a Conservative government be better than the government of Prime Minister Trudeau ? Absolutely . But that does not mean that is going to get us any further down the road to the fairness , the equality , the autonomy that Western Canadians are seeking , " Hill said . The Conservative Party rejected that notion . " There is only one party that can defeat Justin Trudeau and help the West feel secure and more welcome in confederation , and that 's Canada 's Conservatives led by Erin O'Toole , " a CPC statement reads . Election could reveal next leader for Mavericks Hill is planning to stay on as interim leader if the next federal election is held in the " near future , " but he said he hopes the campaign will reveal the next leader of the party . While the Mavericks may not pick up any seats in the next federal election , one expert cautions that the sentiment driving its support should n't be underestimated . " I do n't think that there 's going to be a mass exodus to the Maverick Party , but they certainly could make it uncomfortable , " said Doreen Barrie , an adjunct assistant professor of political science at the University of Calgary . " The Conservative Party is a product of an arranged marriage and the cracks are beginning to show . " Barrie added that some of O'Toole 's choices , especially his climate plan , will present challenges . " If you want to focus entirely on the Western base , their interests and concerns are very different from people in Central Canada . And when the party begins to woo the Central Canadian voters , these people feel betrayed . So it 's a no-win situation . " The Wexit Canada party rebranded under the Maverick title in September . It 's working to expand its electoral district associations . Hill says 27 are up and running so far , and there are candidates in seven ridings , most in Alberta . Hill did n't share the party 's fundraising totals or membership numbers but said things have picked up in 2021 . Those figures are not required to be public at this point , so CBC has no way to verify them . <p> Heather Langley says her nine-year-old daughter , Lucy , loves school so much , even the bus ride is a moment of unbridled joy for the Grade 3 student from Halifax . " From the moment that she is assisted to get on the bus , she 's squealing with joy , ready to start her day , " said Langley in an interview from her Clayton Park home . She said Lucy , who does not speak and needs constant one-on-one support , is a " little bit of a star " at Burton Ettinger Elementary School in Fairview , going class to class each day to greet the other children . But since the end of April , those classrooms have been empty . Lucy , like all kids across Nova Scotia , is expected to learn from home , over a computer screen , now that schools have closed because of the COVID-19 pandemic . ' For my child , there is nothing ' Premier Iain Rankin said last week he 's heard from the minister and deputy minister of education that remote learning is " going well , " but some parents of students who require additional supports at school say their children are falling between the cracks . " I would like the premier to know that they 're not going well , they 're not going at all , " said Langley . " For my child , there is nothing . Lucy and children like her , I think have just disappeared from their classroom . They 're not online . They ca n't be . " Tracey Edwards , whose seven-year-old twins are on the autism spectrum , said instead of consulting the minister or department bureaucrats , Rankin should 've talked to parents like her . " I 'm at my wit 's end , " said Edwards . " It 's not fair to my children that they are being left out . " A good year , interrupted Up until now , Edwards said her children , Zoe and Zachary , have had a good school year . " This year has been absolutely wonderful , " she said . " My daughter , Zoe , she will stand at the door and she will just go , ' Bus , bus , bus , ' 10 or 15 minutes while we 're waiting for that bus to come around . " Zachary has become more independent and is excelling at school , said Edwards . " He still needs his help to keep him focused and stuff , but he 's actually doing academic work , which is really nice to see , " she said . Online learning not meeting needs But Edwards said neither child has been getting much out of at-home learning . " They come on and they sing a song with the kids . They show a video . We do a dance . We do some stretching . We read a poem , and then they 're gone . And it 's 30 minutes a day , " she said . " With special needs children , there is no online version of learning . I am sorry . There is just not . " Likewise , Langley said Lucy ca n't do computer-based learning . " She 's not a child that can sit quietly and amuse herself , " said Langley . " If you put an iPad in front of her or a computer , she 's more likely to throw it . " Calls for N.S. to follow other provinces ' lead The two mothers are calling on Nova Scotia to follow the example of the other Atlantic provinces and allow some students who need extra supports or care to return to class , even during lockdowns . " I think they have the time right now to vaccinate the EPAs Educational Program Assistants , vaccinate the learning centre teachers so that they are protected , " said Langley . " We would happily take daily rapid tests , whatever kind of test they asked us to , if that meant that Lucy could safely return . " When schools were preparing to reopen last fall , the province said in its back-to-school plan it would continue to provide " excellent supports to students to support inclusive education . " But the plan also stated that support would be virtual if schools closed again as a result of COVID-19 . No plans to reopen schools yet The Halifax Regional Centre for Education said it has worked with families who are struggling with online learning to try to find accommodations , but reopening classrooms is not part of the plan . " We recognize that none of this replaces face-to-face time between learners and teachers/support staff , " spokesperson Kelly Connors said in an email . " We know the best place for children is in school , but at this time , we all have to do our part to stop the spread of COVID-19 . " Heather and Lucy at her daycare graduation ceremony . ( Submitted by Heather Langley ) When asked why Nova Scotia has adopted a different approach than some other provinces for students who require assistance to learn , a spokesperson for the Education Department would only say the decision to learn from home was made in consultation with Public Health . Dr. Robert Strang , the province 's chief medical officer of health , said May 4 he expected online learning to last at least a few more weeks . " Getting kids back in school , in-school learning , has been one of our priorities throughout the whole pandemic , and it will be a priority as we start to look at when we can reopen things , " he said at the time . " But it can only be done when we are in a position where we have low risk in communities , which then creates safe schools . " MORE TOP STORIES <p> With flights to and from India and Pakistan on hold due to major COVID-19 outbreaks and Ontario trying to stop international students from entering the province altogether , study permit holders are facing an uncertain future . " It 's the most hurtful news for me , " said 22-year-old Ruben Abraham Varughese , who 's hoping to study this fall at Algonquin College in Ottawa . " I 've already spent a lot of money on trying to get a good education in Canada . We have already invested so much in Canada and after that they tell us international students may be banned ? It 's very painful . " Last month , the federal government announced that all flights to and from India and Pakistan would be banned for 30 days . However , India 's second wave of infections refuses to abate , leaving the door open for an extension of the ban . Varughese is currently in Kochi , a coastal city in the southern Indian state of Kerala . He plans to come to Ottawa in August , but it 's not clear if the travel ban will be lifted by then , or if international students will be exempt once it is . Shortly after the ban was announced , Ontario asked the federal government to prohibit international students from entering the province altogether . The prime minister said he was open to working " more narrowly " with the Doug Ford government on this request . Before the travel ban , citizens , permanent residents and those with valid study or work permits were allowed to board direct flights to Canada . ' My money is gone ' According to data from Immigration , Refugees and Citizenship Canada , Ontario is home to nearly half of all international students in Canada . India alone accounts for more than one-third of all study permit holders in Canada . " We have to be considered essential travellers , " said Varughese , who has already spent $30,000 on tuition and other expenses . " I have to look for a house to rent , put down my deposit , buy things I need to take with me . Say I pay advance to a landlord , and then the government says I ca n't come . What happens then ? My money is gone . " While colleges and universities across the country are hoping to have in-person classes by the fall , students like Varughese may now have to settle for another year of virtual learning . Shweta Joseph Corriea , pictured , is a graduating student from Algonquin College , currently on a student visa and awaiting her work permit . She planned to travel to her hometown , Mumbai , in May , but had to cancel her plan because of the travel ban . ( CBC / Radio-Canada ) No travel home Meanwhile , recent graduates like Shweta Joseph Corriea are worried they might have lost their last chance for an extended return home . " I planned to go home for the summer break , but I changed my plans because of the travel ban . I do n't know when I will see my family again , " said Corriea , who just finished her studies at Algonquin College . When it comes to COVID-19 , Corriea 's hometown of Mumbai is one of the hardest-hit cities in the world . She said she was already missing important family moments -- including her sister 's wedding and her niece 's birth -- because she thought it best to stay put in Ottawa during the pandemic . The crushing blow came with the death of her great-aunt last month from COVID-related complications . " We were very close . She was a nun and just the sweetest . She would bring me toys and treats whenever she visited . I was her favourite , " she said . Now , with the travel ban , she does n't even have the choice to go home . " I told my mother to tell me everything , good news or bad , " Corriea said . " But I 'm scared there will be death or sickness in the family and I wo n't be there . " <p> CHARLOTTETOWN -- Health officials in Prince Edward Island said Thursday they are concerned a case of COVID-19 tied to a daycare centre in Charlottetown may have spread beyond the facility . The case is likely travel-related and involves someone in their 20s who works at Leaps and Bounds Childcare Centre , chief medical officer Dr. Heather Morrison told reporters . " We really are going to need to focus on trying to see if we can contain and manage any potential spread that may have happened in this situation , " she said . The centre takes care of between 38 and 40 children and has eight staff . Morrison said the daycare will be closed and children , staff and their close contacts will be tested and asked to isolate as they wait for results . Morrison said early contact tracing indicates the case may involve a close contact of someone who recently travelled , adding that it 's too early to say if additional restrictions are needed in the capital . Premier Dennis King told reporters he has asked Economic Growth Minister Matthew MacKay to help people affected by the daycare closing to access federal support payments . The province has seven active reported cases of COVID-19 . This report by The Canadian Press was first published May 13 , 2021. -- -- -- This story was produced with the financial assistance of the Facebook and Canadian Press News Fellowship . The Canadian Press <p> It suddenly seems that worrying about inflation has gone mainstream . What was so recently a quirky idea has shifted into a media mass movement as markets sag and news reports are filled with talk of rising prices . Wednesday 's latest consumer price index ( CPI ) data from the United States showing inflation rose to 4.2 per cent instead of the expected -- though already high -- 3.6 per cent only added to the apprehension . For Canadians thinking this is a U.S. phenomenon that we can safely ignore , do n't count on it . If inflation really does kick in , price rises in a deeply entangled North American economy will not be stopped by a thin border . If we 're not there yet , we are likely to catch up . The reason for that " if " in the previous paragraph is that one or two sharp rises in inflation do not necessarily signal an inflationary trend . On the other hand , nearly three generations of North Americans who have never witnessed true inflation in their adult lives have few reference points to decide for themselves if what we are seeing really is the beginning of inflation . Learning from experience One way to help rectify that is to find someone , maybe a grandparent , who witnessed the onset of serious inflation in the 1970s and 1980s . In lieu of a handy grandparent , I tracked down 82-year-old David Laidler , professor emeritus at Western University in London , Ont. , who in the 1960s was an early expert on the subject and says he is worried that history may be repeating itself . But before making Laidler 's case , it is probably a good idea to explain why Wednesday 's U.S. inflation figures , while worse than expected , may not be as astounding as they appear . It is also important to remember that there are many smart economists , including those at our central banks , who insist this is a blip , not a trend . For one thing , the inflation numbers getting all of the attention include volatile food and fuel prices . Central banks use a measure of inflation with the volatile parts taken out , called core inflation . Core remains under two per cent . Also , those current year-on-year numbers are a comparison of recent prices with those that were unusually low a year ago due to pandemic shock . Earlier this week , as markets had already begun trembling in anticipation of Wednesday 's inflation data , senior U.S. Federal Reserve official Lael Brainard repeated the central bankers ' assertion that inflation is just surging temporarily as the economy goes from full stop to full throttle . Lael Brainard , a senior U.S. Federal Reserve Board official , said this week that price rises are temporary and that cutting stimulus to stop inflation would hurt the recovery . ( Brian Snyder/Reuters ) " Remaining patient through the transitory surge associated with reopening will help ensure that the underlying economic momentum that will be needed to reach our goals ... is not curtailed by a premature tightening , " Brainard said in a speech on Tuesday . It appeared that markets were not listening . One of the reasons may be that CPI is not the only inflation indicator being bandied about this week . Another is something called the five-year breakeven rate , a comparison of government-issued zero inflation bonds to other five-year bonds . A glance at the above link will show the market expects a sharply rising inflationary trend . Almost everyone you talk to says they have noticed things getting more expensive . Business leaders , including the Oracle of Omaha , Warren Buffett , say their costs are rising , and the companies they control have begun to increase prices to compensate . Ringside seat And according to economist David Laidler , that 's exactly how inflation started last time around in the late 1960s and ' 70s . " Let me be clear , I wrote my first article that had to do with the theory of inflation in 1965 , so I was there at the beginning , " the economist quipped in a phone interview . Earning his PhD with Nobel Prize-winning economist Milton Friedman at the University of Chicago , Laidler had a ringside seat watching price rises eat away at the value of money over the next 20 years as inflation rose to the high teens . David Laidler , professor emeritus at Western University in London , Ont. , was an early expert on inflation and says he 's worried that history may be repeating itself . The economist wrote his first article on the theory of inflation in 1965 . ( Western University ) Laidler says that most people , including central bankers , were caught by surprise . " You get prices of particular inputs going up , and everything gets put down to special , local instances , " he said . But Laidler says those special , localized cases were actually symptoms of a broader cascade of effects spread through prices and wages . " What 's happening is demand is beginning to percolate through goods markets .... The goods producers start trying to increase output and they need more inputs for that , and they begin to run into bottlenecks , " he said . " And then the prices go up there and then the guy who 's selling to consumers says , ' Well , gee , I have to raise my price because my input prices have gone up . ' " WATCH Bank of Canada optimistic about post-pandemic recovery : Laidler says when you look at prices of things such as lumber and steel and copper -- and when you see the shortage of workers with the right skills -- it is credible to imagine the same thing is happening all over again . " And if what happened in the late ' 60s and early ' 70s happens again , the authorities are going to say , ' Oh , this is a temporary thing , we do n't have to worry about it . ' " He says that could allow inflation expectations to get embedded , making it a " real pain in the neck " to muster the political will to stop it . Laidler says while rising house prices are not considered inflation because they are assets , not consumer goods , they have in the past been an indicator of coming inflation . But he says if you think we are entering a period of inflation , this is the time to buy real goods such as cars , appliances -- things that will last but could become more expensive in the future . Saint-Tropez in your future ? If you think inflation is coming , it may be time to spend on durable goods or a nice holiday once COVID-19 restrictions end . ( Eric Gaillard/Reuters ) He remembers someone asking him back in the 1970s what to do with their money , and he recalls offering only slightly tongue-in-cheek advice that they should spend it on a good holiday because at least they will have their memories . And while Laidler is pleased to share his own memories of an earlier era of inflation , he adds this proviso that clearly does not just apply to him : " Anyone who says they really know what is going to happen over the next couple of years without a doubt is not to be trusted . " Follow Don Pittis on Twitter @donpittis <p> The Liberal government 's controversial new broadcasting bill wo n't infringe upon the free speech rights of social media users , according to a new analysis report produced by the Department of Justice . Justice Minister David Lametti oversaw the analysis of Bill C-10 at the request of MPs on the House of Commons heritage committee after recent amendments raised concerns . Critics of the bill cried foul after committee members removed an exemption that would have excluded user-generated content posted to social media sites from regulation by the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission ( CRTC ) , the country 's broadcasting regulator . Internet law experts and opposition MPs said removing that protection would give the CRTC the power to regulate the posts that millions of Canadians upload every day to platforms like Facebook , Instagram , TikTok and YouTube -- something they saw as a violation of the charter right to freedom of expression . Bill consistent with charter , analysis finds In its analysis , the government concludes the bill is consistent with the Charter of Rights and Freedoms -- in part because an existing clause in the bill states that social media users who are not affiliated with the site itself wo n't be be subject to regulation when they upload audio and visual content . " The effect of the proposed removal of the user-generated content exclusion clause is that an online undertaking that provides a social media service could be subject to regulation under the Act in respect of the programs uploaded by its unaffiliated users , " the analysis reads , which was obtained by CBC News . " However , Clause 1 ( section 2(2.1) ) remains . This means that unaffiliated users of social media services would not be subject to broadcasting regulation in respect of the programs they post . " The analysis also points out that the CRTC is compelled to fulfil its regulatory duties in a manner that is consistent with freedom of expression and the charter . LISTEN : What is Bill C-10 and why is everyone so upset about it ? Heritage Minister Steven Guilbeault introduced Bill C-10 to update the Broadcasting Act for an era when Canadians increasingly consume music , movies , TV shows , videos and podcasts either online or through mobile apps . The bill would allow the CRTC to request information from foreign streaming services and app companies about how much revenue they make in Canada , compel them to pay into funds that support Canadian musicians , writers and artists , and require them to make Canadian content more visible on their platforms . The committee suspended its clause-by-clause review of Bill C-10 this week in order to wait for the charter analysis . Guilbeault is expected to appear before the committee on Friday , along with officials from the justice department , to answer questions from MPs . C-10 could be subject to charter challenge , says expert Michael Geist , Canada Research Chair in internet law , said the government 's analysis does n't engage with the main concern that has emerged about Bill C-10 in recent weeks . " Under Bill C-10 , all user generated content is treated as a program and subject to regulation by the CRTC . Never in Canadian history has the expression of so many individuals been treated as falling within the jurisdiction of a broadcast regulator , " said Geist . " Further , though there are limits to the CRTC 's powers , the fact that it can prioritize or effectively de-prioritize content in the name of discoverability has a direct impact on the expression of millions of Canadians . " Geist said that , if it 's enacted , the bill could be subject to charter challenges and a lengthy court battle . Conservative Leader Erin O'Toole is calling on the Liberals to scrap Bill C-10 . ( Sean Kilpatrick/Canadian Press ) At a press conference today , Conservative Leader Erin O'Toole called on Prime Minister Justin Trudeau to scrap what he called a " terribly flawed " bill . O'Toole said a Conservative government would repeal Bill C-10 if it passes in its current form . " It is unfair to trample on the rights of Canadians , to try and mislead them by saying they must accept regulation of their social media in order to help artists , " said O'Toole . " That is not only disingenuous but the deceit shows why they tried to sneak in this change . " <p> Five patients have tested positive for COVID-19 in an outbreak at Chatham-Kent Health Alliance . The outbreak , declared on Tuesday , is taking place in the hospital 's medicine unit . Four of those infected are in-patients while the fifth person had been discharged prior to the outbreak declaration , hospital president and CEO Lori Marshall told reporters during a media briefing Thursday morning . Fifty staff members have been tested for COVID-19 in relation to the outbreak , none of whom has tested positive as of Thursday morning . Marshall said that additional preventative measures are in place during the outbreak , which is believed to involve a COVID-19 variant of concern . Overall , the hospital has 17 COVID-19 patients , three of whom are in ICU , Marshall said . Eleven of the patients are residents of Chatham-Kent , while six are non-residents . The hospital is one of many in Ontario accepting transfers of COVID and non-COVID patients from hospitals facing capacity issues amid the third wave of the pandemic . The average age of COVID-19 in-patients as of Thursday is 48.2 , she said . <p> SANTA CLARA , Calif . ( AP ) -- The Jesuit priest who presided over an inaugural Mass for President Joe Biden has resigned his position as president of Santa Clara University in Northern California , college officials said , after an investigation found he engaged in inappropriate , alcohol-fueled conversations with graduate students . The Rev. Kevin O'Brien , at the direction of Jesuit officials , has begun a therapeutic outpatient program to address personal issues , including alcohol and stress counseling . He had been president of Santa Clara University since July 2019 and was placed on leave in March . The university announced O'Brien 's departure in a statement to the campus community on Wednesday that included messages from acting President Lisa Kloppenberg and board of trustees Chair John M. Sobrato . O'Brien had notified the board of his resignation Sunday and the trustees accepted it the next day . The private Jesuit institution in the Silicon Valley , founded in 1851 as the first Jesuit university in the West , is ranked as one of the top 25 schools for undergraduate teaching nationwide . California Govs . Gavin Newsom and Jerry Brown are among its alumni . In a letter to the university community dated Wednesday , O'Brien wrote that he hopes to return to active ministry as a Jesuit priest after he completes the four- to six-month outpatient program . He did not give details about his conduct , writing only that there had been " accounts of my behavior over the past year in certain social settings with adults that did not meet the highest standards of decorum expected of me as a Jesuit . " " After much prayer and thought and out of deep love for Santa Clara , I have concluded that the best service I can offer to our beloved university is to step aside now , " he wrote . O'Brien has known the Bidens for about 15 years ; they met when he was serving at Georgetown University , another Jesuit college . O'Brien gave the service at Cathedral of St. Matthew the Apostle , one of the most prominent Catholic churches in Washington , in January for Biden , who is the nation 's second Catholic president , as well as Vice President Kamala Harris , their families and elected officials before the inauguration ceremony at the U.S. Capitol . He also presided over services for Biden 's inaugurations as vice president . " This is a challenging time for Santa Clara , but Fr . O'Brien has shown both generosity and freedom in wanting to do what is best for the university , " said the Rev. Scott Santarosa , head of the Jesuits West Province that conducted the investigation , in a statement . " With care for the faculty , staff , students and entire Santa Clara community , he has decided to step down . " Sobrato 's statement said the investigation found that O'Brien " engaged in behaviors , consisting primarily of conversations , during a series of informal dinners with Jesuit graduate students that were inconsistent with established Jesuit protocols and boundaries . " The dinners involved alcohol , Sobrato wrote , but no inappropriate behavior was discovered outside of these events . The Survivors Network of those Abused by Priests , known as SNAP , on Wednesday called for the Jesuits to broaden the investigation to other places O'Brien previously worked , including Georgetown University , to see if other students would come forward . " SNAP is alarmed with the limited amount of information that has been provided about the case and wants to see the probe expanded , " the statement said . The Associated Press <p> Ontario is looking to begin vaccinating children between the ages of 12 to 17 in June using the Pfizer vaccine . The news comes as the province continues expanding vaccine eligibility . Marianne Dimain reports . <p> The family of a paramedic who died after waiting too long for an ambulance is taking the province 's Health Ministry to court , and it 's hoping legal action will force them to finally address the need for better emergency services in L ? vis , Que . Hugo St-Onge died in 2017 after going into cardiac arrest . He was 24 years old . It took 20 minutes for the ambulance to show up -- twice as long as the North American standard for response time . The lack of ambulance services in the municipality located just south of Quebec City has been well documented . A month before he died , St-Onge was among those who signed an open letter denouncing the lack of ambulance coverage in the Chaudi ? re-Appalaches region . " He died for nothing , " said the 24-year-old 's parents , Johanne Lapointe and Bruno St-Onge , in an interview with Radio-Canada . They say more than three years after his death , they still have difficulty sleeping , waking up in the middle of night thinking about their son . Ambulance resources in the area so thin that after paramedics showed up to a home last May , they were dispatched to another call deemed more urgent and left before checking on the woman who needed assistance . She died later that night , also of cardiac arrest . Johanne Lapointe and Bruno St-Onge say they still have difficulty sleeping , more than three years after their son 's death . ( Radio-Canada ) In regards to St-Onge 's death , the coroner 's report last July found that there were three ambulances in the area when the 24-year-old was in distress . They were all busy . The closest available team was 13 kilometres away in a nearby town . Since that report , the province 's Health Ministry has managed to add a total of 16 extra service hours in L ? vis . Ambulance workers in the area say they 160 extra service hours -- ten times more what the ministry has added . St-Onge 's family is suing the Health Ministry , the regional health board for Chaudi ? re-Appalaches and the 911 call centre for $520,000 . Both the ministry and the health board have declined to comment . St-Onge 's parents feel they must continue advocating for better ambulance services in L ? vis , given that their son spoke out about that same issue prior to his death . " For Hugo , for the family , we feel like we have to push forward , " Lapointe said . " When Hugo died , everyone in the family was shattered . Today , we pick up the pieces , we put the pieces together as best we can . " <p> A police operation sparked by reports of shots fired in a Moncton , N.B. , park ended Thursday , with no suspect arrested and no indication of whether any evidence was found . After hours of the RCMP telling residents by Twitter to stay in their homes and lock their doors , the force issued an Alert Ready message just after 6 p.m . AT telling them the operation in the Centennial Park area of Moncton had ended . " Residents may exit their homes and return to normal activities , " said the message . In an interview , RCMP spokesperson Corp . Hans Ouellette said Codiac RCMP responded to a report around 8:30 a.m. that a vehicle was struck by bullets on Killam Drive near Millennium Boulevard . The shots appeared to have come from the woods of nearby Centennial Park , prompting the closure of the park and the issuing of the Alert Ready message telling residents to stay inside and away from the area . Ouellette said after hours of officers searching the park , including with help from a helicopter , no evidence was found that warranted keeping the area contained . " There were some people that were asked to stay in their homes , " he said . " Those people can now return to their regular activities . " Though the area is no longer contained , Ouellette said RCMP officers continue to search it . " I could n't disclose anything that we have found just for the integrity of the investigation . What I can say is that , you know , we 're still actively investigating this and no arrests have been made . " And we 're also asking people who ... may have dashcam video or video or pictures of , you know , anything that would have occurred between 8 and 9 a.m. , to give the Codiac Regional RCMP a call . " Ouellette could n't say what kind of gun was involved in the shooting . Pickup truck seen with bullet holes in it Steven Parker , owner of Boyd 's Auto Body on Millennium Boulevard , said he was at his shop on Thursday morning when a pickup truck stopped on the street in front of his business with two gunshots holes on the rear door and the rear windows broken . Parker said the driver got out and the two of them spoke briefly before about 10 police cars arrived . Steven Parker , owner of Boyd 's Auto Body in Millennium Boulevard , said he was at his business on Thursday morning when he saw a pickup truck pull up with two bullet holes and smashed rear windows . ( Submitted by Steven Parker ) " The driver was kind of panicky . He was very nervous , " Parker said , adding the man told him he 'd been shot at higher up the street . Parker said the police blocked off the street and officers could be seen searching the pickup truck . Students , staff locked in The incident prompted lockdown and hold-and-secure responses from schools in the area , including Bernice MacNaughton High School , Bessborough School , Hillcrest Middle School , Harrison Trimble High School , ? cole Sainte-Bernadette and ? cole Le Sommet . By late afternoon , Anglophone East School District announced all students had been safely dismissed from schools previously under lockdown . In a tweet Thursday evening , the district said schools will be open on Friday . The incident also prompted the closure of Horizon Health Network 's COVID-19 Assessment Centre and blood collection clinic at the Moncton Coliseum . " If you had an appointment , please DO NOT go to the Coliseum , " Horizon said , in an online notice . The public first learned about the police operation in a morning tweet from the RCMP , about an hour after the report of gunshots . Then at 10:17 a.m. , an RCMP Alert Ready message said the force was responding to shots fired in the Centennial Park area , and for residents to lock their doors , stay away from windows and shelter in place . In a tweet around 4:30 p.m. , the RCMP said an Alert Ready update would be issued " once the search was concluded and it was safe for residents in the area to resume their daily activities . " <p> Canadian music mainstays The Tragically Hip and Feist will perform together at the 50th annual Juno Awards later this year , The Canadian Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences announced today . The June 6 show will mark the first televised performance by The Tragically Hip since frontman Gord Downie died in 2017 . Downie was diagnosed with glioblastoma , a form of brain cancer , in 2015 . " It 's been such a difficult year for our fellow musicians , we wanted to do something to honour them in a way that would make Gord smile , " the band was quoted as saying in a press release . The Tragically Hip last performed at the Junos in 2007 , when Downie inducted producer Bob Rock into the Canadian Music Hall of Fame . The band also performed two years earlier in 2005 , when they were inducted into the Hall of Fame themselves . Indie rocker and 11-time Juno winner Feist last played at the awards ceremony in 2017 , when she performed a tribute to Leonard Cohen five months after his death . Feist , right , performs a tribute to Leonard Cohen at the Juno Awards on April 2 , 2017 , in Ottawa . ( CARAS/iPhoto Inc . ) In the same press release , Feist noted that she spent a year touring with The Tragically Hip early on in her career . She called that experience her " first big education " and said she was " touched " to be given the opportunity to play with them now . " The only way I 'm making any sense of it is to imagine I 'll be singing backups for Gord , and know my 20-year-old self would n't believe it , " she said . " Like the rest of Canada , I 'll be so happy to hear these kings of song play again . " The Tragically Hip , who are now tied with the Orchestre Symphonique de Montr ? al as the fourth most awarded act in the show 's history , were already slated to receive the 2021 Humanitarian Award during the ceremonies . Previous recipients include Arcade Fire , Neil Young and Rush . That , including their induction into the Canadian Music Hall of Fame , will be the Hip 's 17th Juno . Geddy Lee and Alex Lifeson of Rush will present the band with the award . WATCH Tragically Hip 's Paul Langlois sings Bobcaygeon to support COVID-19 struggles in Ontario town : The recognition , formerly known as the Allan Waters Humanitarian Award , honours artists or industry leaders who have shown an " exemplary dedication to social , environmental and humanitarian causes ... in a single noted action or a lifelong commitment . " The Tragically Hip have helped to raise and donate millions of dollars for cancer research , environmental causes and more -- including for Camp Trillium , The Canadian Cancer Society and the Special Olympics . The band also set up The Tragically Hip Community Fund in 2004 to support local charities in their hometown of Kingston , Ont . Downie was also a passionate advocate for Indigenous rights and issues , including reconciliation and shining light on the history of residential schools . One of his final musical projects told the story of Chanie Wenjack , a boy from Marten Falls First Nation who was found dead on railroad tracks near Kenora , Ont. , in 1966 . He had left a residential school and was trying to make it home . His fifth and final solo album , Secret Path -- which was released a year before his death -- led to the founding of the Gord Downie &amp; Chanie Wenjack Fund . That fund " aims to build cultural understanding and create a path toward reconciliation between Indigenous and non-Indigenous peoples , " according to its website . Though the Hip have not performed in years , the band recently started a TikTok account , which they said they would use to release exclusive clips from their vaults and curate fan content . The account came about as the Hip celebrated the 30th anniversary of their second studio album Road Apples . Guitarist Rob Baker helped kick it off earlier this week with a video of him playing a stripped-down version of the band 's hit Ahead By A Century . The Junos ' many delays While all awards shows have suffered during the pandemic , the Junos have faced particularly significant hurdles in putting on a show . Last year , ceremonies were abruptly cancelled after many nominees and guests had already arrived in Saskatoon , where the show was being held . And this year , the awards have already been postponed twice -- first moving from mid-March to May 16 due to a spike in COVID-19 cases , and then again to June . Organizers said in a tweet the second delay , announced in April , was made " out of an abundance of caution in response to the evolving COVID-19 pandemic . " And in a March interview with CBC News , CARAS president and CEO Allan Reid said the first delay was made in an attempt to put a focus on live music . Signs announcing the cancellation of the Juno Awards hang over the baggage carousels at the John G. Diefenbaker International Airport in Saskatoon on Thursday , March 12 , 2020 . ( Matt Smith/The Canadian Press ) " We felt that giving ourselves a little bit more time was good , " he said . " But also maybe we can do some things outdoors . And as vaccines roll out , hopefully there 's an opportunity to sort of engage people in a live setting as well as we get closer to the day . " Organizers had planned to conduct the awards with some of the year 's music moments presented at prominent Toronto venues . But that could clash with Ontario COVID-19 guidelines , which allow film and TV productions to continue , but bar musicians from staging performances inside concert venues . The 50th annual Juno Awards are scheduled to take place on Sunday , June 6 at 8 p.m . ET/5 p.m . PT . They will broadcast on CBC TV , CBC Gem , CBC Radio One , CBC Music and globally on CBCMusic.ca/junos . <p> The latest numbers of confirmed COVID-19 cases in Canada as of 4:00 a.m . ET on Thursday , May 13 , 2021 . There are 1,305,770 confirmed cases in Canada . Canada : 1,305,770 confirmed cases ( 76,676 active , 1,204,328 resolved , 24,766 deaths ) . *The total case count includes 13 confirmed cases among repatriated travellers . There were 6,189 new cases Wednesday . The rate of active cases is 201.75 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 48,431 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 6,919 . There were 53 new reported deaths Wednesday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of 316 new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is 45 . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.12 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 65.16 per 100,000 people . There have been 33,001,128 tests completed . Newfoundland and Labrador : 1,166 confirmed cases ( 85 active , 1,075 resolved , six deaths ) . There were 10 new cases Wednesday . The rate of active cases is 16.28 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 52 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is seven . There have been no deaths reported over the past week . The overall death rate is 1.15 per 100,000 people . There have been 251,097 tests completed . Prince Edward Island : 187 confirmed cases ( eight active , 179 resolved , zero deaths ) . There were zero new cases Wednesday . The rate of active cases is 5.01 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of four new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is one . There have been no deaths reported over the past week . The overall death rate is zero per 100,000 people . There have been 151,226 tests completed . Nova Scotia : 4,301 confirmed cases ( 1,621 active , 2,609 resolved , 71 deaths ) . There were 149 new cases Wednesday . The rate of active cases is 165.52 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 1,119 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 160 . There were zero new reported deaths Wednesday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of two new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is zero . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.03 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 7.25 per 100,000 people . There have been 685,984 tests completed . New Brunswick : 2,024 confirmed cases ( 124 active , 1,859 resolved , 41 deaths ) . There were nine new cases Wednesday . The rate of active cases is 15.87 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 55 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is eight . There were zero new reported deaths Wednesday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of two new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is zero . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.04 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 5.25 per 100,000 people . There have been 317,271 tests completed . Quebec : 360,201 confirmed cases ( 7,756 active , 341,433 resolved , 11,012 deaths ) . There were 745 new cases Wednesday . The rate of active cases is 90.45 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 5,811 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 830 . There were 11 new reported deaths Wednesday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of 48 new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is seven . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.08 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 128.43 per 100,000 people . There have been 8,694,189 tests completed . Ontario : 499,412 confirmed cases ( 29,962 active , 461,076 resolved , 8,374 deaths ) . There were 2,320 new cases Wednesday . The rate of active cases is 203.35 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 19,779 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 2,826 . There were 32 new reported deaths Wednesday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of 187 new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is 27 . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.18 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 56.83 per 100,000 people . There have been 14,406,591 tests completed . Manitoba : 43,143 confirmed cases ( 3,940 active , 38,203 resolved , 1,000 deaths ) . There were 364 new cases Wednesday . The rate of active cases is 285.66 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 3,064 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 438 . There were three new reported deaths Wednesday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of 18 new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is three . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.19 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 72.5 per 100,000 people . There have been 725,948 tests completed . Saskatchewan : 43,673 confirmed cases ( 2,016 active , 41,149 resolved , 508 deaths ) . There were 183 new cases Wednesday . The rate of active cases is 171.04 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 1,453 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 208 . There were two new reported deaths Wednesday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of seven new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is one . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.08 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 43.1 per 100,000 people . There have been 803,830 tests completed . Alberta : 213,635 confirmed cases ( 24,962 active , 186,550 resolved , 2,123 deaths ) . There were 1,799 new cases Wednesday . The rate of active cases is 564.51 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 12,711 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 1,816 . There were four new reported deaths Wednesday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of 21 new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is three . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.07 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 48.01 per 100,000 people . There have been 4,332,160 tests completed . British Columbia : 137,223 confirmed cases ( 6,074 active , 129,524 resolved , 1,625 deaths ) . There were 600 new cases Wednesday . The rate of active cases is 117.99 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 4,298 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 614 . There was one new reported death Wednesday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of 31 new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is four . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.09 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 31.57 per 100,000 people . There have been 2,589,096 tests completed . Yukon : 84 confirmed cases ( two active , 80 resolved , two deaths ) . There were zero new cases Wednesday . The rate of active cases is 4.76 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of two new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is zero . There have been no deaths reported over the past week . The overall death rate is 4.76 per 100,000 people . There have been 9,129 tests completed . Northwest Territories : 114 confirmed cases ( 57 active , 57 resolved , zero deaths ) . There were two new cases Wednesday . The rate of active cases is 126.22 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 29 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is four . There have been no deaths reported over the past week . The overall death rate is zero per 100,000 people . There have been 20,946 tests completed . Nunavut : 594 confirmed cases ( 69 active , 521 resolved , four deaths ) . There were eight new cases Wednesday . The rate of active cases is 175.34 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 54 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is eight . There have been no deaths reported over the past week . The overall death rate is 10.16 per 100,000 people . There have been 13,585 tests completed . This report was automatically generated by The Canadian Press Digital Data Desk and was first published May 13 , 2021 . The Canadian Press <p> He served for more than three decades with the armed forces reserves and cadets . He was an honorary colonel of an air force wing and an honorary aide-de-camp to one of Quebec 's lieutenant governors . Now , Jean-Charles Perreault has been stripped of one of the military 's highest honours after it was discovered that he had been wearing civilian public service medals he had never been awarded . It is only the third time in the nearly 50-year history of the Order of Military Merit that a member has been expelled , said Derek Abma , spokesperson for the Department of National Defence . Lynne Santerre , manager of public affairs for the governor general 's office , said medals can only be worn by those who have received them . " Captain ( Retired ) Jean-Charles Perreault 's appointment to the Order of Military Merit was revoked on the grounds that he publicly wore medals which he had not been awarded , while serving as Honorary Colonel of 2 Wing Bagotville , " she said . Jean-Charles Perreault ( left ) in an undated photo with Quebec Lt.-Gov . Michel Doyon . Perreault served as an aide-de-camp to one of Doyon 's predecessors , former Quebec Lt.-Gov . Martial Asselin . ( Photo provided by Stolen Valour Canada ) Abma said Perreault was not authorized to wear the Canada Centennial Medal , the Queen 's Silver Jubilee Medal , the Queen 's Diamond Jubilee Medal , a second clasp on his Canadian Forces Decoration and a second bar on his Order of St. John Service Medal . Perreault is entitled to wear other medals , including the Queen 's Golden Jubilee Medal he was awarded in 2002 . Unlike medals for operational military service overseas , the Centennial and Jubilee medals were awarded to civilians , as well as members of the military , for community service . ' It 's finished ' Reached by CBC News , Perreault said the act of expelling him from the order back in February was " disproportionate . " " I do n't want to know anything about the armed forces -- it 's finished , " he said . " For me , the page is turned . " Perreault said he was particularly disturbed by recent revelations of sexual misconduct at the highest levels of the Canadian Armed Forces and the way Prime Minister Justin Trudeau 's government has handled it . " I 'm ashamed to say today that I belonged to the Canadian Armed Forces for 32 years . " The events that culminated in Perreault being tossed out of the Order of Military Merit began in 2018 , when Perreault was honorary colonel of 2 Air Expeditionary Wing Headquarters in Bagotville , Quebec . Someone noticed the medals he was wearing and alerted Stolen Valour Canada , a group that works to expose those who falsely claim to have served in the military or wear medals they were not awarded . Stolen Valour alerted Rideau Hall and the Department of National Defence . In October 2019 , the Order of Military Merit Advisory Council wrote a letter to the secretary of the Governor General asking them to review Perreault 's appointment to the order . Former Chief of Defence Staff Jonathan Vance chaired the advisory council that recommended Perreault 's membership in the Order of Military Merit be reviewed . Vance is currently under investigation following allegations of sexual misconduct . ( Sean Kilpatrick/Canadian Press ) At the time , the advisory council was chaired by former chief of the defence staff Gen. Jonathan Vance , who is currently facing allegations of sexual misconduct . Rideau Hall also notified the Order of St. John -- where Perreault holds the grade of officer -- that he was wearing a second bar on that organization 's service medal that he was not entitled to wear . Patricia Kearney , priory secretary for the Order of St. John , said Perreault was asked to stop wearing the second bar and he has since returned it to the Order . Perreault did not challenge his removal from the Order of Military Merit and has returned the insignia . Perreault said he has no plans to wear medals in the future . Asked about the Centennial medal , Perreault said that " there are things that unfortunately were n't done by the late Sen. Cyrille Vaillancourt , because he forgot to put the name and all the rest . " Asked why there is no record of him being awarded the Silver and Diamond Jubilee medals , Perreault said " there are different registries . " In a statement issued to CBC News , Stolen Valour said that it is " hopeful that Perreault being struck from the Order and the resulting notoriety will have a deterrent effect on others who would choose to tarnish the dedication and devotion of those awarded the Order of Military Merit . " Perreault is n't the only person who has faced consequences recently for wearing medals they were n't awarded . In a court martial proceeding Monday , Capt . Mark Osborne pleaded guilty , was reprimanded and fined $3,500 for wearing four medals when he served in Germany in 2019 that he had not been awarded . He also tried to get them added to his military record . Two of the medals -- the Silver and Diamond Queen 's Jubilee medals -- were the same as those worn by Perreault . Osborne also wore the Queen 's Golden Jubilee medal and the 125th Anniversary of Confederation Medal . Elizabeth Thompson can be reached at **25;822;TOOLONG 
@@52728832 <h> Weary Gaza marks Muslim feast as violence spreads in Israel <p> An Israeli soldier stands guard next to an Iron Dome air defense system as smoke rises from an oil tank on fire after it was hit by a rocket fire from Gaza Strip , near the town of Ashkelon , Israel , , Wednesday , May 12 , 2021 . ( AP Photo/Ariel Schalit ) <p> GAZA CITY , Gaza Strip ( AP ) -- Weary Palestinians somberly marked the end of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan on Thursday , as Hamas and Israel traded more rockets and airstrikes and Jewish-Arab violence raged across Israel . <p> The violence has reached deeper into Israel than at any time since the 2000 Palestinian intifada , or uprising . Arab and Jewish mobs have rampaged through the streets , savagely beating people and torching cars , and flights have been canceled or diverted away from the country 's main airport . <p> The escalating fighting between Israel and Gaza 's Hamas rulers has echoed -- and perhaps even exceeded -- their devastating 2014 war . That conflict and two previous ones were largely confined to the impoverished and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But this round -- which , like the intifada , began in Jerusalem -- seems to be rippling far and wide , tearing apart the country at its seams . <p> Meanwhile , in Gaza residents are bracing for more devastation as militants fire one barrage of rockets after another and Israel carries out waves of bone-rattling airstrikes , sending plumes of smoke rising into the air . Since the rockets began Monday , Israel has toppled three high-rise buildings that it said housed Hamas facilities after warning civilians to evacuate . <p> In the first sign of possible progress in efforts for a cease-fire , an Egyptian security delegation was in Tel Aviv on Thursday for talks with Israeli officials after meeting Hamas officials in Gaza , two Egyptian intelligence officials said . They spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to talk the press . Even as word came of their presence , a volley of some 100 rockets from Gaza was fired toward southern and central Israel . There were no immediate reports of injuries or damage . <p> Gaza 's Health Ministry said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 17 children and seven women , with more than 480 people wounded . Islamic Jihad confirmed the deaths of seven militants , while Hamas , the Islamic militant group that seized power in Gaza from rival Palestinian forces in 2007 , acknowledged that a top commander and several other members were killed . Israel says the number of militants killed is much higher than Hamas has acknowledged . <p> Seven people have been killed in Israel . Among them were a soldier killed by an anti-tank missile and a 6-year-old child hit in a rocket attack . <p> The fighting comes as Muslims mark Eid al-Fitr , the end of a month of daily fasting that is usually a festive time when families shop for new clothes and gather for large feasts . <p> Instead , Hamas urged the faithful to mark communal Eid prayers inside their homes or the nearest mosques instead of out in the open , as is traditional . <p> Hassan Abu Shaaban tried to lighten the mood by passing out candy to passers-by after prayers , but acknowledged " there is no atmosphere for Eid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , destruction and devastation , " he said . " May God help everyone . " <p> In Gaza 's southern town of Khan Younis , dozens of mourners marched through the streets carrying the bodies of an 11-year-old and a 13-year-old killed when an Israeli airstrike hit near their home Wednesday . <p> The owner of a five-story building in Gaza City , meanwhile , said he got a call from the Israeli military on Thursday asking him to evacuate it before an airstrike brought it down . <p> " The building is residential , what is in to hit ? " said the man , who spoke on condition of anonymity because of security concerns . <p> The Israeli military later said the building housed intelligence offices used by Hamas . <p> Gaza militants continued to bombard Israel with nonstop rocket fire into Thursday . The attacks brought life to a standstill in southern communities near Gaza , but also reached as far north as the Tel Aviv area , about 70 kilometers ( 45 miles ) away , for a second straight day . <p> Israel has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ near Tel Aviv , to the Ramon airfield in the country 's far south , the Transportation Ministry said . Several flights have also been canceled . <p> The Israeli military says more than 1,600 rockets have been fired since Monday , with 400 falling short and landing inside Gaza . Israel 's missile defenses have intercepted 90% of the rockets . Israeli airstrikes have struck around 600 targets inside Gaza , the military said . <p> The Israeli army shared footage showing a rocket impact between apartment towers in the Tel Aviv suburb of Petah Tikva early Thursday , apparently sparking a large fire . It said the strike wounded people and caused significant damage . <p> " We 're coping , sitting at home , hoping it will be OK , " said Motti Haim , a resident of the central town of Beer Yaakov and father of two children . " It 's not simple running to the shelter . It 's not easy with the kids . " <p> Despite cease-fire efforts , both sides were vowing to push ahead . <p> Israeli television 's Channel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Security Cabinet authorized a widening of the offensive . " It will take more time , but with great firmness ... we will achieve our goal -- to restore peace to the State of Israel , " Netanyahu said during a visit to batteries of the anti-missile defenses . <p> Not long after , air raid sirens rang out in Tel Aviv and around southern and central Israel as the warning system showed dozens of incoming rockets from Gaza . <p> A spokesman for Hamas ' military wing declared in a video speech that the " decision to bomb Tel Aviv , Dimona and Jerusalem is easier for us than drinking water . " Dimona is the site of Israel 's nuclear reactor . " Our conflict will reach you whenever you turn any aggression against our people . " <p> U.N . Secretary-General Antonio Guterres condemned the " indiscriminate launching of rockets " from civilian areas in Gaza toward Israeli population centers , but he also urged Israel to show " maximum restraint . " U.S. President Joe Biden called Netanyahu to support Israel 's right to defend itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sending a senior diplomat to the region to try to calm tensions . <p> The current eruption of violence began a month ago in Jerusalem , where heavy-handed Israeli police tactics during Ramadan and the threatened eviction of dozens of Palestinian families by Jewish settlers ignited protests and clashes with police . A focal point of clashes between Palestinians and Israeli police was Jerusalem 's Al-Aqsa Mosque , built on a hilltop compound that is revered by Jews and Muslims . <p> Jerusalem is at the heart of the conflict between the bitter enemies : Israel regards the entire city as its capital , while the Palestinians want east Jerusalem to be the capital of their future state . <p> Hamas , claiming to be defending the city , launched a barrage of rockets at the city late Monday , in a dramatic escalation . Hamas banners could be seen outside Al-Aqsa on Thursday as thousands gathered there for Eid prayers . <p> The recent fighting has also set off violent clashes between Arabs and Jews in Israel , in scenes unseen in more than two decades . Netanyahu warned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if necessary " to calm the violence . <p> But ugly confrontations erupted across the country late Wednesday . Jewish and Arab mobs battled in the central city of Lod , the epicenter of the troubles , despite a state of emergency and nighttime curfew . In nearby Bat Yam , Jewish nationalists attacked an Arab motorist , dragged him from his car and beat him until he was motionless . <p> Israeli police said two people were shot and wounded in Lod and an Israeli Jew was stabbed . An Arab citizen was stabbed and seriously wounded in Jerusalem 's central Mahane Yehuda market , where many Arabs work in restaurants and as food vendors . Dozens of people were arrested in towns across Israel where clashes and rioting broke out . <p> In the occupied West Bank , the Israeli military said it intervened in a Palestinian shooting attack that wounded two people . The Palestinian Health Ministry said the suspected gunman was killed . No details were immediately available . <p> Still unclear is how the fighting in Gaza will affect Netanyahu 's political future . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in March , and now his political rivals have three weeks to try to form one . <p> They have courted a small Islamist Arab party , but the fighting could hamper those efforts . <p> <p> Krauss reported from Jerusalem . Associated Press writers Samy Magdy in Cairo , Isabel DeBre in Dubai , United Arab Emirates , and Karin Laub in the West Bank contributed . 
@@52728860 <h> Morning Brief : Canada might accept more permanent residents <p> Today 's Morning Brief is brought to you by Chartered Professional Accountants of Canada . Transitioning to a net-zero emission economy requires sustainable finance . Our policy brief looks at steps the federal government can take to enable a more sustainable and prosperous future . <p> -- Mendicino open to raising PR caps : Immigration Minister Marco Mendicino says he 's open to raising the 90,000-person cap for Canada 's new permanent-residency application program , which opened last week . So far 50,000 people have applied , he said , adding he would see how quickly the 90,000 target is reached , then would be " open to revisiting the caps . " <p> -- Kady O'Malley looks ahead to the rest of the day in politics with iPolitics AM : " Hitting the media circuit this morning : Conservative Leader Erin O'Toole , who has scheduled an early afternoon media availability just outside the perimeter of the precinct at the Westin Hotel , where , as the Star reported last month , the party has leased ' a spacious ballroom ... to serve as a broadcast studio @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ virtual campaign trail . Meanwhile , New Democrat Leader Jagmeet Singh hits the virtual hustings in Montreal . " <p> -- Singh calls for halt to Israel arms sales : NDP Leader Jagmeet Singh has called on Ottawa to halt arms sales to Israel amid escalating violence there . " By arming one side of the conflict it is undermining the peace process and it is supporting illegal occupation , " he said . Prime Minister Trudeau called on all sides to end the violence . <p> -- TheBloc Qu ? b ? cois is calling on the Liberal government to do everything possible to avoid a pandemic election , despite repeatedly voting non-confidence in the government . Yves-Francois Blanchet will use an opposition day today to debate a motion calling on the House of Commons to declare that it would be irresponsible to hold an election during the ongoing health crisis , and that it is the government 's responsibility to prevent one . <p> -- Indigenous leaders are also calling for delayed elections . The Assembly of First Nations is set to host a virtual election in July @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a delay until December , saying that a pandemic vote could disenfranchise many First Nations communities . <p> -- Legault to introduce language reform bill : Quebec Premier Fran ? ois Legault is expected to present his government 's revamp of language legislation today . Bill 101 is expected to be wide-ranging and could touch on sign laws , education , and the use of French in the workplace . <p> -- Joyce Echaquan inquest begins : A Quebec coroner 's inquest begins today into the death of Joyce Echaquan , an Indigenous woman who filmed herself being insulted and mocked by hospital staff while she lay dying . <p> -- Israel considers ground operation in Gaza as violence escalates : Israel 's military is reportedly drafting a plan for a possible ground operation in Gaza . Since Monday , Hamas has fired some 1,500 rockets into Israeli territory and seven people , including one child , have been killed in Israel . In Gaza , at least 72 people , including 16 children , have now been killed amid Israeli airstrikes . Last night , far-right Jewish mobs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . <p> U.S. President Joe Biden spoke with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu yesterday , and later told reporters , " Israel has a right to defend itself when you have thousands of rockets flying into your territory . " This morning , Muslims were able to gather peacefully at Al-Aqsa Mosque in Jerusalem to pray and mark Eid al-Fitr , the end of Ramadan . <p> -- Panel says WHO biased towards travel : An expert panel examining the global response to COVID-19 , led by the former prime minister of New Zealand , Helen Clark , has found that international regulations supported by the WHO are biased toward keeping borders open and should be overhauled . The findings refer to a set of rules known as the International Health Regulations , agreed to by WHO member countries , which guide them on how to act during an outbreak . <p> We leave you today with drone footage of two endangered whales hugging . <h> More from iPolitics <p> By submitting content , you agree that you are personally responsible for the content that you publish and that iPolitics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ You also agree to comply with any specific rules posted on blogs or forums . Please see the Terms of Use for more details . 
@@52729136 <p> She continued , " Israel deserves to live as a free and safe nation , our neighbours deserve the same . I pray for the victims and their families , I pray for this unimaginable hostility to end , I pray for our leaders to find the solution so we could live side by side in peace . " <p> Finally , Gadot added , " I pray for better days . " <p> In response to protests over the forced confiscation over homes in the East Jerusalem neighbourhood of Sheikh Jarrah , Israeli forces launched attacks on worshippers at Al-Aqsa mosque , one of the holiest sites in the Muslim faith . <p> Reaction from Palestinians in the form of rocket fire at Israel has prompted a heavy airstrike campaign in the densely populated territory of Gaza , killing at least 53 Palestinians , including 14 children according to The New York Times . At least six Israelis have also been killed by rocket fire . <p> Clashes have also erupted between Israelis and Palestinians in communities within Israel . <p> Gadot turned off comments on her tweet , but her statement prompted much controversy on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soft-peddling Israel 's actions toward the Palestinian people . <p> The solution is actually very easy . Let the Palestinians go ! Israel has occupied them in open-air prisons for over five decades . And the reason they 've stated is that Palestinians can not be trusted to govern themselves . That is explicitly racist . Stop being racist &amp; free them . https : //t.co/pgfUDAF5W5 <p> The war is not between people of 2 countries it 's btw the Bads ( Ares ) of the 2 , ( Hate , Ego and Cruelty of some people with power ) &amp; innocents are just victims .. A gr8 msg was shared by u @GalGadot and ur team thru #WonderWoman . Only if the world understood that . #StopWar#Peacehttps : //t.co/LAvGmVLMKy 
@@52729613 <p> Rogers Media uses cookies for personalization , to customize its online advertisements , and for other purposes . Learn more or change your cookie preferences . Rogers Media supports the Digital Advertising Alliance principles . By continuing to use our service , you agree to our use of cookies . <p> We use cookies ( why ? ) You can change cookie preferences . Continued site use signifies consent . <h> Israel threatens Gaza ground invasion despite truce efforts <p> by Josef Federman and Fares Akram , The Associated Press <p> Posted May 13 , 2021 6:52 pm EDT <p> Last Updated May 13 , 2021 at 11:19 pm EDT <p> Israel on Thursday said it was massing troops along the Gaza frontier and calling up 9,000 reservists ahead of a possible ground invasion of the Hamas-ruled territory , as the two bitter enemies plunged closer to all-out war . <p> This follows a clarification from Israeli officials that there are " currently " no ground troops inside Gaza , citing an " internal communications " error that informed reporters that Israeli ground troops had entered the territory . <p> Egyptian mediators rushed to Israel for cease-fire efforts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fighting came as communal violence in Israel erupted for a fourth night , with Jewish and Arab mobs clashing in the flashpoint town of Lod . <p> The fighting took place despite a bolstered police presence ordered by the nation 's leaders . <p> The four-day burst of violence has pushed Israel into uncharted territory -- dealing with the most intense fighting it has ever had with Hamas while simultaneously coping with the worst Jewish-Arab violence inside Israel in decades . <p> A late-night barrage of rocket fire from Lebanon that landed in the sea threatened to open a new front along Israel 's northern border . <p> Early Friday , the Israeli military said air and ground troops struck Gaza in what appeared to be the heaviest attacks yet . <p> Masses of red flames illuminated the skies as the deafening blasts from the outskirts of Gaza City jolted people awake . <p> The strikes were so strong that people inside the city , several kilometers away , could be heard screaming in fear . <p> " I said we would extract a very heavy price from Hamas , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " We are doing that , and we will continue to do that with heavy force . " <p> The fighting broke out late Monday when Hamas , claiming to be the defender of Jerusalem , fired a barrage of long-range rockets toward the city in response to what it said were Israeli provocations . <p> Israel quickly responded with a series of airstrikes . <p> Since then , Israel had attacked hundreds of targets in Gaza . The strikes set off scores of earth-shaking explosions across the densely populated territory . <p> Gaza militants have fired nearly 2,000 rockets into Israel , bringing life in the southern part of the country to a standstill . <p> Several barrages targeted the seaside metropolis of Tel Aviv , some 70 kilometers away . <p> Gaza 's Health Ministry said the death toll has climbed to 103 Palestinians , including 27 children and 11 women , with 530 people wounded . <p> The Hamas and Islamic Jihad militant groups have confirmed 20 deaths in their ranks , though Israel says that number is much higher . <p> Seven people have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In Washington , President Joe Biden said he spoke with Netanyahu about calming the fighting but also backed the Israeli leader by saying " there has not been a significant overreaction . " <p> He said the goal now is to " get to a point where there is a significant reduction in attacks , particularly rocket attacks that are indiscriminately fired into population centers . " <p> He called the effort a " a work in progress . " <p> Thursday 's visit by Egyptian officials marked an important step in the cease-fire efforts . <p> Egypt often serves as a mediator between Israel and Hamas , and it has been a key player in ending past rounds of fighting . <p> The officials met first with Hamas leaders in Gaza before holding talks with Israelis in Tel Aviv , two Egyptian intelligence officials said . <p> They spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to talk to the media . Hamas ' exiled leader , Ismail Haniyeh , was also in touch with the Egyptians , the group said . <p> Israeli firefighters take cover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gaza strip , at the southern Israeli town of Ashkelon , Tuesday , May 11 , 2021 . ( AP Photo/Ariel Schalit ) <p> Despite those efforts , the fighting only intensified . Israeli aircraft pummeled targets in Gaza throughout the day . <p> And late Thursday , Israel fired tank and artillery shells across the border for the first time , sending scores of terrified residents fleeing for safety . <p> The airstrikes have destroyed scores of buildings , including three high rises . Israel says the buildings housed Hamas militants or facilities , but civilians were inside as well . <p> In the northern Gaza Strip , Rafat Tanani , his pregnant wife and four children were killed after an Israeli warplane reduced the building to rubble , residents said . <p> Sadallah Tanani , a relative , said the family was " wiped out from the population register " without warning . " It was a massacre . My feelings are indescribable , " he said . <p> Israel has come under heavy international criticism for civilian casualties in Gaza fighting . It says Hamas is responsible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ areas . <p> The chief military spokesman , Brig . Gen. Hidai Zilberman , said troops were massing along the Gaza border for a possible ground operation . <p> He said tanks , armored vehicles and artillery were being prepared " for mobilization at any given moment . " <p> Hamas showed no signs of backing down . It launched several intense barrages of rockets throughout the day and fired its most powerful rocket , the Ayyash , nearly 200 kilometers ( 120 miles ) into southern Israel . <p> The rocket landed in the open desert but briefly disrupted flight traffic at the southern Ramon airport . <p> Hamas also launched a drone that Israel said it quickly shot down . <p> Hamas military spokesman Abu Obeida said the group was not afraid of a ground invasion , saying any invasion would be a chance " to increase our catch " of dead or captive soldiers . <h> Gaza marks deadly Eid al-Fitr as tensions rise during holiday <p> The fighting cast a pall over the Muslim holiday of Eid al-Fitr , normally marked by family gatherings and festive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ empty . <p> Hassan Abu Shaaban tried to lighten the mood by passing out candy to passers-by but acknowledged " there is no atmosphere " for celebrating . <p> " It is all airstrikes , destruction and devastation , " he said . " May God help everyone . " <p> The current eruption of violence began a month ago in Jerusalem , where heavy-handed Israeli police tactics during Ramadan and the threatened eviction of dozens of Palestinian families by Jewish settlers ignited protests and clashes with police . <p> A focal point of clashes was Jerusalem 's Al-Aqsa Mosque , built on a hilltop compound that is revered by Jews and Muslims . <p> Israel regards Jerusalem in its entirety as its capital , while the Palestinians want east Jerusalem to be the capital of their future state . <p> The violent clashes between Arabs and Jews in Israel resulted in scenes not witnessed in more than two decades . <p> The confrontations erupted again late Thursday . Jewish and Arab mobs battled in the central city of Lod , the epicenter of the troubles , for a fourth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ police presence . <p> A Jewish man was shot and seriously wounded , and Israeli media said a second Jewish man was shot . <p> In the Tel Aviv neighborhood of Jaffa , an Israeli soldier was attacked by a group of Arabs and hospitalized in serious condition . <p> The fighting deepened a political crisis that has sent Israel careening through four inconclusive elections in just two years . <p> After March elections , Netanyahu failed to form a government coalition . Now his political rivals have three weeks to try to do so . <p> Those efforts have been greatly complicated by the fighting . His opponents include a broad range of parties that have little in common . <p> They would need the support of an Arab party , whose leader has said he can not negotiate while Israel is fighting in Gaza . <p> Naftali Bennett , leader of a small right-wing party , was quoted as saying he did not believe an alternate coalition could be formed in the current atmosphere . <p> Opposition leader Yair Lapid , who is leading the coalition-building efforts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and urged Bennett to join him to help rescue the country . 
@@52732961 <h> Breadcrumb Trail Links <h> Sudbury letters : Support for Israel ; LTC report has flaws <h> Article content <p> We must support Israel <p> To understand the recent terror attacks in Israel , we must first understand the Israeli court decisions relating to property claims in the Arab-dominated Sheikh Jarrah region of Israel that started it all . The Jerusalem District court ruled that eight Palestinians must leave their home because they failed to pay their rent . <p> We apologize , but this video has failed to load . <p> Try refreshing your browser . <h> Sudbury letters : Support for Israel ; LTC report has flawsBack to video <p> According to NGO Monitor , the courts found that three of the eight appellants were the grandchildren of residents who admitted that the property in question was owned by the Israelis in court proceedings dating back to 1982 . <p> Four others claimed that they purchased the land in 1991 from a man named Ismail , but were unable to provide any evidence that could identify Ismail , and they were unable to provide evidence or any supporting documentation that proved that they had purchased the land @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ estate of a deceased resident who had not paid any rent and built illegally on the property . <h> Advertisement <p> Story continues below <p> This advertisement has not loaded yet , but your article continues below . <h> Article content <p> The courts upheld the previous rulings that all of the appellants should be evicted from their homes . <p> Hamas responded to the court ruling by firing rockets into Israel , targeting largely civilians . Israel then counter-attacked by targeting Hamas targets in the Gaza strip . <p> Hamas then amped up their terrorist attacks by targeting Tel Aviv , the economic centre and second largest city in all of Israel and which does not reside in any contested territory . <p> Tensions continue to rise in the region and the airstrikes will only continue to escalate . <p> The media has been extremely irresponsible in how they have been reporting on the situation . Instead of providing the full context surrounding the newest conflict , they instead chose to report solely on the airstrikes without providing the pretext . <p> The mainstream media have framed Palestine as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in reality the Palestinians are ruled by Hamas and Fatah , two of the most notorious terrorist organizations in the region . <p> Canadians need to remember that Israel is a democracy that guarantees fundamental rights and freedoms to all of its citizens regardless of race , ethnicity , and religion . Whilst Palestine has been overrun by terrorist organizations who do n't even give their own people democracy and mobility rights to name a few . <p> As Canadians , we should support Israel as it is the only democracy in the Middle East , and we need to question the mainstream media 's narrative when it comes to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . We need to ask ourselves : do we want to support and defend anti-Semitic terrorist organizations , or Israel , the only thriving democracy in the Middle East ? <h> Advertisement <p> Story continues below <p> This advertisement has not loaded yet , but your article continues below . <h> Article content <p> I am not going to deny the need for better LTC . Two forgotten files at Queen 's Park are LTC and autism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a long time . But I would like to caution the report being cited contains no more deaths in LTC than in any other years from COVID . <p> In other words , LTC death numbers overall did n't have a drastic change from any other year . I 'll just attach one study ( **31;2548;TOOLONG ) . It was a five-year study with dementia patients in Canada of a cohort of 108,757 patients in LTC facilities . <p> Once you do the math and correlate it with the 85 per cent of all COVID deaths being from LTC in Canada , you can see that the numbers do n't really change on average . <p> In essence , people that were destined to die , died . I know most do n't like to hear that , but it 's a fact of life . Could better LTC have extended some lives ? Absolutely , and it 's what we should strive to achieve , but I think we should also not focus so much on COVID taking patients because it was pretty much irrelevant by the numbers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " in our LTC facilities . <p> Kevin Lalonde <p> Facebook <h> Share this article in your social network <h> Share this Story : Sudbury letters : Support for Israel ; LTC report has flaws <h> News Near Sudbury <h> This Week in Flyers <h> Comments <p> Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles . Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site . We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful . We have enabled email notifications -- you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment , there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments . Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings . <h> Notice for the Postmedia Network <p> This website uses cookies to personalize your content ( including ads ) , and allows us to analyze our traffic . Read more about cookies here . By continuing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Service and Privacy Policy . 
@@52733617 <h> Latest Stories <p> ST . JOHN 'S , N.L. -- Newfoundland and Labrador 's premier says he 's prepared to make decisions that may cost him re-election in order to get the province out of debt . Andrew Furey made the comments to reporters today following the release of a pre-recorded video Thursday night in which he gave what he called a " state of the province " address . According to a sweeping report last week from the provincial economic recovery team , the province 's debt stands at more than $47 billion . To correct course , Furey says his government is considering amalgamating its four health authorities and dismantling the provincial energy corporation . He also says taxes will go up for " those who can afford it . " The report said the province 's staggering debt is partly the result of mismanagement by previous governments , and Furey says he 's looking at ways to increase government accountability . This report by The Canadian Press was first published May 14 , 2021 . The Canadian Press <p> P.E.I. has again delayed the date of entry for seasonal residents to the province due to the COVID-19 pandemic . Last month , P.E.I. announced it would be putting a pause on those entries as part of stricter border measures to limit the importation and spread of COVID-19 . According to an updated section of the province 's website , that has been delayed again , this time until June 1 . " Travel for seasonal residents coming to P.E.I. is paused until at least June 1 , 2021 , " the website said . " This includes individuals who have already received a prior approval to travel , your approval is now deferred until at least June 1 . " Those moving to the Island from outside the Atlantic provinces are also paused until at least June 1 , unless it 's for school or work purposes . Those moving to P.E.I. from within the region can still enter as long as they 've been approved . The website says travel to P.E.I. through the family connections stream will be reviewed to determine necessity . Seasonal residents disappointed , but understand Seasonal residents were allowed to enter the province last summer , provided they had a plan with someone to support their self-isolation for two weeks . Jen Harding is the founding president of Seasonal Residents of P.E.I. , a non-profit group made up of those with seasonal properties on the Island . She said members who had planned on arriving in the coming days , herself included , started receiving notice Thursday evening saying all pre-travel approvals are being rescinded . Harding said members are disappointed but not surprised . " It 's not binary . People can be disappointed and maybe frustrated at changing plans , but they do understand the changing situation with COVID and what 's happening certainly in Nova Scotia is causing the region to put stronger measures in place , " she said . " And so you can be disappointed at that but also recognize what else is happening around the world and certainly in Canada . " More from CBC P.E.I. <p> MOSCOW ( Reuters ) -Transforming the site of what once was a Soviet-era car factory into a state-of-the-art facility churning out Russia 's COVID-19 vaccine Sputnik V was the easy bit . Making doses in bulk , finding qualified staff and getting equipment have been much bigger headaches for Moscow-based biotech firm R-Pharm and other private Russian companies picked to make the country 's flagship shot to fight the pandemic . President Vladimir Putin has trumpeted the vaccine around the world , and said in March that Russia had signed agreements for the production of 700 million doses abroad . <p> BEIRUT/ISTANBUL ( Reuters ) -Turkey 's Karpowership , which provides electricity to Lebanon from two barges , said on Friday it was shutting down supplies over payment arrears and a legal threat to its vessels as the nation grapples with a deep economic crisis . The company , which supplies 370 megawatts ( MW ) , or about a quarter of Lebanon 's current supply , told the government this week it would have to shut down unless there were moves towards settling the issues . The shutdown threatens longer daily power cuts across the heavily indebted nation , which did not have enough capacity to meet demand even before Karpowership 's move on Friday . <p> Bloc Qu ? b ? cois Leader Yves-Fran ? ois Blanchet said Friday he sees an opening to begin the next federal election campaign on Aug. 16 if the COVID-19 pandemic is under control . That timeline would ensure the federal vote does n't interfere with municipal elections that are to be held across Quebec in November , Blanchet told a virtual meeting with an association representing Quebec cities and towns . " It would seem to me to be highly disrespectful for a federal election to interfere with municipal elections , " Blanchet , whose party holds 32 seats in the minority Parliament , told the gathering in French . " It opens a window that opens quite squarely on Aug. 16 . I 'm not saying that 's when it 's going to happen , but we ca n't rule it out . " The Bloc leader 's suggestion comes a day after his party tabled a motion in the House of Commons demanding Prime Minister Trudeau not call an election during the pandemic . Blanchet has repeatedly warned Trudeau against holding a vote during the health crisis . The purpose of the Bloc 's motion , Blanchet said Friday , was to force a debate and a vote on the election date , as the Trudeau government sought to limit debate on Bill C-19 , which aims to ensure a vote can be safely conducted during the pandemic . Bill C-19 passed by a vote of 330-1 at second reading Tuesday , with the support of the Bloc members , who said they wanted the legislation to move to committee for study . Blanchet said the government should n't be attempting to force through a bill that would permit an election to be held during the pandemic , adding that the bill is n't necessary if the pandemic is under control . " If there is a pandemic , we do n't have an election and if the pandemic is controlled , we do n't need a law to hold an election during the pandemic , " he said . " Let 's be logical . " This report by The Canadian Press was first published May 14 , 2021 . The Canadian Press <p> TORONTO -- Medical experts say Ontario will have to significantly scale up its vaccination effort to achieve its goal of fully inoculating all willing adults against COVID-19 by the end of the summer . They say the province will need far more health-care workers at vaccine clinics , 24-hour sites and clear public messaging to meets its Sept. 22 target . The president of the Ontario Medical Association the province should use all available vaccine facilities and engage more family doctors to reach its goal . " If we were in a position of unlimited supply and we were able to use all of our resources to provide those vaccines , we 'd stand a fighting chance , " Dr. Samantha Hill said . Premier Doug Ford said Thursday that the plan is contingent on continued vaccine supply from the federal government in the coming months . Ford has been more vocal recently in his criticism of the federal government 's handling of the pandemic , calling for tighter border control to prevent cases of the COVID-19 variants from entering the province . Prime Minister Trudeau has accused the Progressive Conservative premier of playing politics during the pandemic . A spokeswoman for Ford 's office said Friday the province can hit the Sept. 22 target if the province receives approximately eight million doses by the end of June , and an additional 11 million doses to fully vaccinate Ontarians aged 12 and over . " If we were to get that supply , we could dramatically increase our capacity to administer vaccines , " Ivana Yelich said in a statement . " If they can get us the supply , we will work to get Ontarians fully vaccinated this summer . " Ontario administered 141,765 COVID-19 vaccine doses on Thursday for a total of more than 6.7 million doses given out so far . University of Toronto epidemiologist Ashleigh Tuite said now that vaccine supply appears to be less of an issue , the " two-dose summer " effort should be focused on how to get shots into arms as quickly as possible . She said the government should clarify its plan for second doses , given the confusing , " piecemeal " vaccination campaign thus far . " We do n't really have a unified system and there 's clearly some confusion amongst the public to how exactly we get our second dose , " she said . Having a fully vaccinated population makes the future " a lot brighter , " she said . " I think it 's going to be really important , thinking back to the government and their role in all of this , to have some more clear communication around this . " The CEO of the Registered Nurses ' Association of Ontario said the province will need to greatly speed up its rollout more aggressively if it wants to hit the Sept. 22 target . Doris Grinspun said the province must recruit more health-care workers to help administer doses and should be running its mass clinics 24/7 to maximize output . " If we have enough vaccines we should open it to everyone , absolutely , " she said . " I believe that we can get all the vaccines into arms in a very short period of time if we utilize all the resources ... which we are not right now . " But NDP deputy leader Sara Singh expressed skepticism about whether the province had a plan to match Ford 's promise . The vaccine rollout has been " slow and very sloppy " and even now many people are struggling to book appointments to get a shot , she said . " We actually need to make sure people are getting their first dose before we can even start having those conversations about making sure they get their second , " she said . The province reported 2,362 new COVID-19 cases Friday , and 26 more deaths from the virus . The data is based on 44,040 tests . There were 1,582 COVID-19 patients in Ontario hospitals as of Friday morning . Of those , 777 people were in intensive care and 560 were on ventilators . This report by The Canadian Press was first published May 14 , 2021 . Shawn Jeffords and Holly McKenzie-Sutter , The Canadian Press <p> A man who police feared was likely to hurt more youth is again accused of sexually assaulting a minor . On Tuesday police charged Marty Ryan Bouvier of Behchoko , Northwest Territories , with touching a minor for a sexual purpose , sexually assaulting the same child and six breaches of court orders . The 26-year-old is alleged to have committed the crimes late last year . Four of the alleged breaches are related to conditions the court placed on Bouvier on August 13 , 2019 , shortly after he was released after serving a prison sentence for sexually assaulting a minor in Behchoko . The judge imposed the conditions for two years at the request of the RCMP . It argued the conditions were necessary because Bouvier was still a risk to commit more sexual offences against minors based on his criminal history . An assessment the RCMP submitted as part of its application for the order concluded Bouvier was " a high priority for supervision and a high risk to reoffend . " As a result of the order , Bouvier was barred from going to any place where children are likely to be -- such as parks , pools , playgrounds and community centres -- without being with a sober adult who is aware of his criminal history . ' Disturbing ' criminal past The judge who sentenced Bouvier to prison time in 2017 described Bouvier 's criminal history as " very disturbing . " In 2015 he was sentenced to 135 days custody for raping a 12-year-old . Between the time he was charged with that offence and the time he was sentenced , he attempted to drag another youth into the woods . The minor escaped and he was convicted of the assault and sentenced to four months plus two years probation . While serving that probation , which included a condition to stay away from minors , he approached an 11-year-old in a local restaurant and told her she was " sexy " and " walked sexy . " He told her he was 13 , though he was in his early 20s at the time . In sentencing Bouvier to four years in prison in 2017 ( credit for 557 days he spent in jail awaiting sentencing was deducted from his sentence ) , Justice Louise Charbonneau issued a warning . She said though Bouvier was still young , " his criminal record is such that I would expect the Crown , if Mr. Bouvier commits similar crimes in the future , is going to have to take a serious look at the options under the Criminal Code to have him dealt with as either a dangerous or long-term offender . " Bouvier remains in custody , but has reserved his right to a bail hearing . His next appearance is scheduled for May 21 , by video from the North Slave Correctional Complex in Yellowknife . <p> An Island woman who was recently escorted out of a store by police is asking Islanders to be more understanding of people who ca n't wear masks . Joy Auld was shopping at Dollarama when staff asked her to leave , since she was wearing a face shield and not a mask . " The manager was there , and I got just partway down the aisle and he said , ' You got to leave the store if you 're not going to wear a mask , ' " said Auld . The P.E.I. Council of People with Disabilities said it continues to get phone calls from Islanders who are being told to leave a store if they 're not wearing a mask -- even if they explain they can not because of a medical condition , as is Auld 's case . " Please be understanding , because not everybody can wear a mask . A lot of us try and if we ca n't do it , we try to find an alternative , " said Auld , who has asthma and anxiety . Face shield has n't been a problem before Masks have been mandatory indoors in public buildings on P.E.I. since November 2020 . Auld has been wearing her face shield in public for the past year , including to medical appointments , and said this is the first time she was asked to leave a store . Marcia Carroll , executive director of the P.E.I. Council of People with Disabilities , says we need to ' give people some grace ' around face masks . ( Jessica Doria-Brown/CBC ) " I do n't think this is fair , " said Auld . " I do n't think somebody should be discriminated against if they really ca n't wear a mask . " The executive director of the P.E.I. Council of People with Disabilities said she 's heard these kinds of stories since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic . More of the onus needs to be on the individual companies and making sure that they 're doing internal education around health exemptions . -- Marcia Carroll , P.E.I. Council of People with Disabilities " We just need to step back and understand that some people ca n't wear a mask , " said Marcia Carroll . " But they still have the right to navigate through their community as well . " Companies should do ' internal education ' Carroll said she does n't think the government needs to step in and remind businesses about exemptions . " I think more of the onus needs to be on the individual companies and making sure that they 're doing internal education around health exemptions and what a mandatory order means , " said Carroll . Auld said her experience at Dollarama was embarrassing , and she 's asked the company for an apology . " People do n't realize how sick I am , because I do n't show it . And I always say , you do n't know my story , so do n't judge me , " she said . CBC News reached out to Dollarama for comment , but has not heard back . More from CBC P.E.I. <p> TORONTO -- Canadian residents should be able to head to the United States for COVID-19 vaccinations and be exempt from mandatory quarantine on return if health authorities here deem the shots medically necessary , a hospital CEO said on Friday . Although a vaccination itself does not exempt incoming travellers from quarantine rules , an exemption does exist for those heading abroad for medically essential procedures . David Musyj , head of Windsor Regional Hospital in the border city of Windsor , Ont. , said he has asked the Public Health Agency of Canada whether the government does deem the vaccines medically necessary . " How can a COVID vaccine not be considered essential ? " Musyj said in an interview Friday . " These vaccines are within reach . Any Canadian can go over there . " Windsor 's mayor has discussed using city transit buses to take residents to a mass vaccine site at Detroit 's Ford Field stadium and bring them back . Musyj said his hospital could help with such an effort but the quarantine requirement for people returning to Canada is an obstacle . Musyj has now sought clarity on the medical exemption . According to the rules , a doctor in Canada has to decide a medical service abroad is essential for a patient , and the person must provide proof they received it to avoid quarantine on return . Musyj said he wants an advance ruling from Health Canada , adding it would be beneficial to access clinics in the U.S. and return without having to isolate . In an initial response for comment on the hospital 's request , Health Canada said only that a doctor 's recommendation " falls under the practice of medicine , which is of provincial/territorial jurisdiction . " However , a spokeswoman did say the ministry was looking at allowing Canadians to pick up surplus doses in the U.S. for injection here . " The government of Canada is currently working with provinces , territories and the United States to determine the feasibility of importing COVID-19 vaccines made available via donation , " Kathleen Marriner said . What is off the table , Marriner said , is allowing vaccine retrieval from the States under a special import program for urgently needed drugs that are not available in Canada . The program , she said , would not be " appropriate mechanism " to facilitate importation . While supplies in Canada are ramping up , shortages remain a major obstacle to inoculating the population . The Windsor region in southwestern Ontario alone estimates it still needs about 600,000 doses to fully vaccinate its residents . At the same time , pharmacies and other vaccination sites across the border are struggling to use their supplies due to a lack of demand . Michigan and other states have said they are willing to offer their excess supply to Canada . The Windsor hospital had wanted permission under the federal " special access program " to be able to take the Americans up on their offer . Despite rejecting the program application , Health Canada has asked the hospital several logistical questions , such as how the vaccines would be retrieved , transported and stored , and what security measures would be in place . Quality , safety and traceability , along with procedures for reporting any adverse reactions , would be key to allowing the imports , Marriner said . " Health Canada would work with the requester , in collaboration with our federal , provincial and territorial partners , to verify that strict protocols are followed , " Marriner said . Musyj said it would be simple to drive over to Detroit or other border states and have the vaccines back in Canada within hours . " They 've got vaccines to burn over there , " he said . " Let 's go get them . " Ohio , for example , is giving five vaccinated residents US$1 million each by way of a lottery . New York City is promising free fries , while New Jersey is offering a free beer to first-shot recipients . " That just shows you what 's happening in the United States to get people vaccinated , " Musyj said . This report by The Canadian Press was first published May 14 , 2021 . Colin Perkel , The Canadian Press <p> CALGARY -- A judge has dismissed an attempt to quash the United Conservative government 's inquiry into whether foreign groups have conspired against Alberta 's oil industry . Court of Queen 's Bench Justice Karen Horner says the environmental law firm Ecojustice failed to prove the inquiry was called to intimidate charities that have raised concerns about the industry . She also says there 's no reason to believe that the political context around the inquiry suggests it 's biased . " I have considered whether there is a basis to hold that the context of the ( order in council establishing the inquiry ) , its terms of reference and the past conduct of commissioner ( Steve ) Allan combined to raise a reasonable apprehension of bias and I find that they do not , " Horner said in her decision Friday . The provincial government and some industry leaders have said Canadian environmental charities that accept U.S. funding are part of a plot against Alberta 's energy industry . The province has said the plot aims to block pipelines and landlock Alberta 's oil to benefit its American competitors . Legal scholars and non-profit groups say the inquiry is an attempt to bully and silence industry critics . Ecojustice had argued in its challenge that the inquiry , a plank of the " fight-back " strategy the United Conservatives touted during the 2019 election campaign , was formed for an improper purpose . Public inquiries are meant to investigate tragedies or " worrisome matters of public concern , " and the inquiry does neither of those things , the group 's lawyer had argued . Lawyers for the provincial government said in their written submissions that cabinet is entitled -- and mandated -- to decide what 's in the public interest and what issues warrant a public inquiry . They also said that questions before the inquiry concern the province 's economic viability . The inquiry 's final report , already delayed , is due May 31 . This report by The Canadian Press was first published May 14 , 2021 . Bob Weber , The Canadian Press <p> The latest numbers on COVID-19 vaccinations in Canada as of 4:00 a.m . ET on Friday , May 14 , 2021 . In Canada , the provinces are reporting 334,975 new vaccinations administered for a total of 17,239,587 doses given . Nationwide , 1,331,739 people or 3.5 per cent of the population has been fully vaccinated . The provinces have administered doses at a rate of 45,487.905 per 100,000 . There were 325,980 new vaccines delivered to the provinces and territories for a total of 20,276,264 doses delivered so far . The provinces and territories have used 85.02 per cent of their available vaccine supply . Please note that Newfoundland and Labrador , P.E.I. , Nova Scotia , New Brunswick and the territories typically do not report on a daily basis . Newfoundland and Labrador is reporting 31,622 new vaccinations administered over the past seven days for a total of 219,826 doses given . The province has administered doses at a rate of 419.811 per 1,000 . In the province , 1.88 per cent ( 9,855 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were 9,360 new vaccines delivered to Newfoundland and Labrador for a total of 279,010 doses delivered so far . The province has received enough of the vaccine to give 53 per cent of its population a single dose . The province has used 78.79 per cent of its available vaccine supply . P.E.I. is reporting 11,000 new vaccinations administered over the past seven days for a total of 67,758 doses given . The province has administered doses at a rate of 427.148 per 1,000 . In the province , 7.20 per cent ( 11,429 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were zero new vaccines delivered to P.E.I. for a total of 84,915 doses delivered so far . The province has received enough of the vaccine to give 54 per cent of its population a single dose . The province has used 79.8 per cent of its available vaccine supply . Nova Scotia is reporting 55,450 new vaccinations administered over the past seven days for a total of 402,733 doses given . The province has administered doses at a rate of 412.679 per 1,000 . In the province , 3.94 per cent ( 38,421 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were -78,940 new vaccines delivered to Nova Scotia for a total of 419,550 doses delivered so far . The province has received enough of the vaccine to give 43 per cent of its population a single dose . The province has used 95.99 per cent of its available vaccine supply . New Brunswick is reporting 42,633 new vaccinations administered over the past seven days for a total of 327,633 doses given . The province has administered doses at a rate of 420.021 per 1,000 . In the province , 4.01 per cent ( 31,301 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were zero new vaccines delivered to New Brunswick for a total of 415,935 doses delivered so far . The province has received enough of the vaccine to give 53 per cent of its population a single dose . The province has used 78.77 per cent of its available vaccine supply . Quebec is reporting 95,959 new vaccinations administered for a total of 4,014,843 doses given . The province has administered doses at a rate of 469.207 per 1,000 . There were zero new vaccines delivered to Quebec for a total of 4,578,079 doses delivered so far . The province has received enough of the vaccine to give 54 per cent of its population a single dose . The province has used 87.7 per cent of its available vaccine supply . Ontario is reporting 137,697 new vaccinations administered for a total of 6,629,363 doses given . The province has administered doses at a rate of 451.312 per 1,000 . In the province , 2.77 per cent ( 407,600 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were 11,700 new vaccines delivered to Ontario for a total of 7,843,825 doses delivered so far . The province has received enough of the vaccine to give 53 per cent of its population a single dose . The province has used 84.52 per cent of its available vaccine supply . Manitoba is reporting 14,058 new vaccinations administered for a total of 605,555 doses given . The province has administered doses at a rate of 439.763 per 1,000 . In the province , 5.72 per cent ( 78,824 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were 73,710 new vaccines delivered to Manitoba for a total of 759,870 doses delivered so far . The province has received enough of the vaccine to give 55 per cent of its population a single dose . The province has used 79.69 per cent of its available vaccine supply . Saskatchewan is reporting 8,415 new vaccinations administered for a total of 545,459 doses given . The province has administered doses at a rate of 462.585 per 1,000 . In the province , 4.02 per cent ( 47,448 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were 63,180 new vaccines delivered to Saskatchewan for a total of 637,115 doses delivered so far . The province has received enough of the vaccine to give 54 per cent of its population a single dose . The province has used 85.61 per cent of its available vaccine supply . Alberta is reporting 44,372 new vaccinations administered for a total of 2,019,713 doses given . The province has administered doses at a rate of 458.812 per 1,000 . In the province , 7.32 per cent ( 322,247 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were 236,340 new vaccines delivered to Alberta for a total of 2,355,255 doses delivered so far . The province has received enough of the vaccine to give 54 per cent of its population a single dose . The province has used 85.75 per cent of its available vaccine supply . British Columbia is reporting zero new vaccinations administered for a total of 2,277,318 doses given . The province has administered doses at a rate of 443.785 per 1,000 . In the province , 2.25 per cent ( 115,295 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were 10,630 new vaccines delivered to British Columbia for a total of 2,740,590 doses delivered so far . The province has received enough of the vaccine to give 53 per cent of its population a single dose . The province has used 83.1 per cent of its available vaccine supply . Yukon is reporting zero new vaccinations administered for a total of 50,270 doses given . The territory has administered doses at a rate of 1,204.62 per 1,000 . In the territory , 56.29 per cent ( 23,492 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were zero new vaccines delivered to Yukon for a total of 57,020 doses delivered so far . The territory has received enough of the vaccine to give 140 per cent of its population a single dose . The territory has used 88.16 per cent of its available vaccine supply . The Northwest Territories are reporting zero new vaccinations administered for a total of 49,811 doses given . The territory has administered doses at a rate of 1,103.992 per 1,000 . In the territory , 49.87 per cent ( 22,501 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were zero new vaccines delivered to the Northwest Territories for a total of 60,000 doses delivered so far . The territory has received enough of the vaccine to give 130 per cent of its population a single dose . The territory has used 83.02 per cent of its available vaccine supply . Nunavut is reporting zero new vaccinations administered for a total of 29,305 doses given . The territory has administered doses at a rate of 756.727 per 1,000 . In the territory , 33.26 per cent ( 12,879 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were zero new vaccines delivered to Nunavut for a total of 45,100 doses delivered so far . The territory has received enough of the vaccine to give 120 per cent of its population a single dose . The territory has used 64.98 per cent of its available vaccine supply . *Notes on data : The figures are compiled by the COVID-19 Open Data Working Group based on the latest publicly available data and are subject to change . Note that some provinces report weekly , while others report same-day or figures from the previous day . Vaccine doses administered is not equivalent to the number of people inoculated as the approved vaccines require two doses per person . The vaccines are currently not being administered to children under 18 and those with certain health conditions . In some cases the number of doses administered may appear to exceed the number of doses distributed as some provinces have been drawing extra doses per vial . This report was automatically generated by The Canadian Press Digital Data Desk and was first published May 14 , 2021 . The Canadian Press <p> DHAKA , Bangladesh ( AP ) -- Thousands of Muslims led by activists from an Islamic political party demonstrated in Bangladesh 's capital on Friday to denounce attacks by Israel against Palestinians . After the end of Eid a -- Fitr prayers at Dhaka 's main Baitul Mokarram Mosque , activists from the Islamic Andolan Bangladesh , or Islamic Movement Bangladesh , began protesting and were joined by thousands of others . Muslim-majority Bangladesh celebrated the key festival of Eid a -- Fitr in a subdued manner after the government urged people to avoid large gatherings . Authorities arranged prayers in phases at the Baitul Mokarram Mosque , where devotees maintained distancing to avoid spreading the coronavirus . Afterward , protesters crowded together outside , carrying signs reading " Boycott terrorist state Israel " and chanting " Down with Israel . " The current eruption of violence between Israelis and Palestinians began a month ago in Jerusalem . Israel regards all of Jerusalem as its capital , while the Palestinians want east Jerusalem , which includes sites sacred to Jews , Christians and Muslims , to be the capital of a future Palestinian state . On Friday , Israeli artillery pounded northern Gaza , the military said . Israel has massed troops along the border following days of fighting with the Islamic militant group Hamas , which controls Gaza . Palestinian militants have fired some 1,800 rockets and the military has launched more than 600 airstrikes . The stepped-up fighting came as communal violence in Israel erupted for a fourth night . Bangladesh is one of 28 members of the United Nations that does not recognize the state of Israel . Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina on Wednesday urged stronger global action to stop Israeli violence against Palestinians . In a letter to Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas , Hasina said the threatened eviction of dozens of Palestinians from the Sheikh Jarrah neighborhood of East Jerusalem was a severe violation of human rights and international law . " We unequivocally denounce such acts of terror and violence and urge the international community to take sustainable measures to end such kinds of acts anywhere and everywhere in the world including Palestine , " she wrote . Julhas Alam , The Associated Press <p> The latest numbers of confirmed COVID-19 cases in Canada as of 4:00 a.m . ET on Friday , May 14 , 2021 . There are 1,312,408 confirmed cases in Canada . Canada : 1,312,408 confirmed cases ( 75,475 active , 1,212,108 resolved , 24,825 deaths ) . *The total case count includes 13 confirmed cases among repatriated travellers . There were 6,615 new cases Thursday . The rate of active cases is 198.59 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 47,068 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 6,724 . There were 60 new reported deaths Thursday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of 338 new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is 48 . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.13 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 65.32 per 100,000 people . There have been 33,130,218 tests completed . Newfoundland and Labrador : 1,173 confirmed cases ( 86 active , 1,081 resolved , six deaths ) . There were seven new cases Thursday . The rate of active cases is 16.47 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 53 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is eight . There have been no deaths reported over the past week . The overall death rate is 1.15 per 100,000 people . There have been 252,133 tests completed . Prince Edward Island : 188 confirmed cases ( seven active , 181 resolved , zero deaths ) . There was one new case Thursday . The rate of active cases is 4.39 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been three new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is zero . There have been no deaths reported over the past week . The overall death rate is zero per 100,000 people . There have been 151,857 tests completed . Nova Scotia : 4,407 confirmed cases ( 1,572 active , 2,764 resolved , 71 deaths ) . There were 110 new cases Thursday . The rate of active cases is 160.51 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 1,043 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 149 . There were zero new reported deaths Thursday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of two new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is zero . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.03 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 7.25 per 100,000 people . There have been 693,313 tests completed . New Brunswick : 2,040 confirmed cases ( 128 active , 1,871 resolved , 41 deaths ) . There were 16 new cases Thursday . The rate of active cases is 16.38 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 60 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is nine . There were zero new reported deaths Thursday . Over the past seven days there has been one new reported death . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is zero . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.02 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 5.25 per 100,000 people . There have been 318,482 tests completed . Quebec : 360,982 confirmed cases ( 7,795 active , 342,170 resolved , 11,017 deaths ) . There were 781 new cases Thursday . The rate of active cases is 90.91 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 5,685 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 812 . There were five new reported deaths Thursday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of 48 new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is seven . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.08 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 128.48 per 100,000 people . There have been 8,733,163 tests completed . Ontario : 502,171 confirmed cases ( 29,235 active , 464,531 resolved , 8,405 deaths ) . There were 2,759 new cases Thursday . The rate of active cases is 198.42 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 19,114 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 2,731 . There were 31 new reported deaths Thursday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of 192 new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is 27 . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.19 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 57.04 per 100,000 people . There have been 14,452,272 tests completed . Manitoba : 43,700 confirmed cases ( 4,046 active , 38,652 resolved , 1,002 deaths ) . There were 560 new cases Thursday . The rate of active cases is 293.35 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 3,262 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 466 . There were three new reported deaths Thursday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of 16 new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is two . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.17 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 72.65 per 100,000 people . There have been 729,722 tests completed . Saskatchewan : 43,926 confirmed cases ( 2,032 active , 41,381 resolved , 513 deaths ) . There were 223 new cases Thursday . The rate of active cases is 172.4 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 1,526 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 218 . There were five new reported deaths Thursday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of 12 new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is two . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.15 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 43.52 per 100,000 people . There have been 807,245 tests completed . Alberta : 215,193 confirmed cases ( 24,586 active , 188,475 resolved , 2,132 deaths ) . There were 1,558 new cases Thursday . The rate of active cases is 556.01 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 12,058 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 1,723 . There were nine new reported deaths Thursday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of 30 new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is four . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.1 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 48.21 per 100,000 people . There have been 4,349,694 tests completed . British Columbia : 137,810 confirmed cases ( 5,868 active , 130,310 resolved , 1,632 deaths ) . There were 587 new cases Thursday . The rate of active cases is 113.99 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 4,191 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 599 . There were seven new reported deaths Thursday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of 37 new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is five . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.1 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 31.7 per 100,000 people . There have been 2,598,205 tests completed . Yukon : 84 confirmed cases ( two active , 80 resolved , two deaths ) . There were zero new cases Thursday . The rate of active cases is 4.76 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of two new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is zero . There have been no deaths reported over the past week . The overall death rate is 4.76 per 100,000 people . There have been 9,129 tests completed . Northwest Territories : 115 confirmed cases ( 44 active , 71 resolved , zero deaths ) . There was one new case Thursday . The rate of active cases is 97.43 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been 17 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is two . There have been no deaths reported over the past week . The overall death rate is zero per 100,000 people . There have been 21,215 tests completed . Nunavut : 606 confirmed cases ( 74 active , 528 resolved , four deaths ) . There were 12 new cases Thursday . The rate of active cases is 188.04 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 54 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is eight . There have been no deaths reported over the past week . The overall death rate is 10.16 per 100,000 people . There have been 13,712 tests completed . This report was automatically generated by The Canadian Press Digital Data Desk and was first published May 14 , 2021 . The Canadian Press <p> OTTAWA -- The Supreme Court of Canada has restored the convictions of a common-law couple for sexually assaulting a 16-year-old girl during a camping trip . The girl was accompanied by her mother , stepfather and seven-year-old brother on the trip during the Canada Day weekend in 2013 . Some of her mother 's co-workers also attended , including the common-law spouses . At trial , the girl testified that she became intoxicated , fell asleep in the couple 's trailer , and woke up to one of them pulling down her pants and the pair engaging her in sexual activity . The couple maintained she had consented to the activity , but the girl testified that she was so drunk she had no control of herself , faded in and out of consciousness and felt she could not have agreed to sex . The Ontario Court of Appeal said the trial judge had made errors that necessitated setting aside the couple 's convictions and ordering a new trial . This report by The Canadian Press was first published May 14 , 2021 . The Canadian Press <p> Saskatchewan reported 227 new cases of COVID-19 on Friday , slightly fewer than the current seven-day average of 203 . Of the new cases , the Saskatoon region saw the most with 50 , followed by the Regina zone with 41 . As of Friday , 2,075 cases are considered active across Saskatchewan . Two more people have died in the province after contracting the virus . One was in their 40s and from the Saskatoon region , while the other was in their 70s and from the south central zone . There are 149 people in hospital with the virus in Saskatchewan , with 115 of them are receiving inpatient care and 34 under intensive care . Saskatoon has the most COVID-19 patients at 65 ( 52 people are receiving inpatient care and another 13 are in intensive care ) . Sask. confirms 1st vaccine-related blood clot Saskatchewan health officials have also confirmed the province 's first vaccine-induced immune thrombotic thrombocytopenia -- otherwise known as a blood clot -- in a woman in her 60s . Health officials said she had received her AstraZeneca-Oxford shot on April 11 , and is now recovering after treatment . As of Wednesday , there have been 18 similar reports confirmed across the country , according to the Public Health Agency of Canada ( PHAC ) . The province said it has reported Saskatchewan 's case to the PHAC as well . The province said roughly 72,000 AstraZeneca first doses have been administered in Saskatchewan , as of Friday . Regardless of which vaccine a person receives , public health officials remind people " adverse events to any immunization can range from minor side effects ( i.e. local pain , swelling at injection site ) to more severe reactions . " Anyone who experiences any side effects to a COVID-19 vaccine is encouraged to report it to 811 HealthLine . Second dose booking starts Monday for ' priority populations ' Starting May 17 , anyone 85 and older -- or who received their first dose of COVID-19 vaccine before Feb. 15 -- will be eligible to book their second shot . People with cancer and those who have received solid organ transplants are expected to receive a letter of eligibility in the mail allowing them to access a second dose as well . Remaining residents will be able to book their second jabs by age group or priority , with dates to be announced later . At second dose appointments , the province said the clinic or pharmacy is expected to validate the timing and brand of a person 's first dose to make sure the second is being administered in the recommended time frame . If someone has misplaced the wallet card provided at their first immunization , they can go online to their MySaskHealthRecord account or call 1-833-727-5829 . At this point , Saskatchewan public health still plans for second doses to match the brand of first doses . However , the province noted that could change depending on the ongoing research across Canada regarding the mixing of vaccine brands . Negative COVID-19 test results to be delivered via text Starting Friday , people who are tested for COVID-19 have the option to receive negative test results via an automated text message , the province said . People can sign up for those updates through an online requisition form at the testing sites . All patients who have received a positive COVID-19 test are still expected to also receive a call from public health officials . <p> Glenn Waddingham can barely contain his frustration . " This is a terrible way to do business , " he said . " How is this even allowed to happen ? " The 62-year-old from Victoria Harbour , Ont. , is referring to the fact that unlike other large Canadian airlines , Sunwing is still not offering refunds for flights it cancelled due to the pandemic . Some of those flights were cancelled more than a year ago , leaving many customers in the same frustrating situation as Waddingham . He and his wife had planned a " once-in-a-lifetime " trip to the Margaritaville resort on Grand Cayman Island for March 2020 , but the airline cancelled the flight after Ottawa warned against non-essential international travel . Sunwing , a low-cost carrier based in Toronto that flies to the Caribbean , Mexico and Central America , has offered travel credit vouchers to affected passengers . But Waddingham said he does n't need a voucher ; he needs the $3,600 he paid for the trip . " I want a refund . I 'm unemployed . I could use the money , " he said . " I 'm shocked that the Better Business Bureau and the federal government is allowing one tour operator to act in this manner . " Other airlines issue refunds Hundreds of Sunwing customers who want refunds are part of a Facebook group called Sunwing Complaints . Many are angry that the airline has still not refunded its customers for flights cancelled because of the pandemic despite accepting federal loans that were contingent on such refunds . They point out that both Air Canada and Air Transat began issuing refunds as soon as they received hundreds of millions of dollars from Ottawa in April . But Sunwing is sticking to its credit-voucher-only policy despite having accepted a $375-million financing deal from Ottawa in February . Like several other large Canadian employers , such as GoodLife Fitness , Gateway Casinos , Air Canada and Air Transat , the company was able to secure a loan through a special pandemic-related program called the large employer emergency financing facility ( LEEFF ) . Sunwing did not reply to the CBC 's email and telephone requests for comment . Glenn Waddingham and his wife had booked a trip to Grand Cayman Island for March 2020 . Now unemployed due to the pandemic , Waddingham says he does n't want a travel voucher from Sunwing ; he wants his money back . ( Submitted by Glenn Waddingham ) Jillian Wilson , 30 , of Stratford , Ont. , is n't impressed with the airline . " To hear that they 've gotten a government fund or bailout and are still refusing to give refunds is very , very disappointing , " she said . She and her partner were married by a justice of the peace in February 2020 and planned to celebrate with friends and family at a beach wedding ceremony in the Dominican Republic a month later . They estimate their group of 40 guests is out of pocket about $70,000 altogether because their flights were cancelled . " My husband likes to call it an interest-free loan to Sunwing , " she said . Wilson is as baffled as many other customers about why the airline has n't followed Air Canada and Air Transat in refunding customers for flights cancelled due to COVID-19 . Special loans for the other airlines There is a difference , however , between the federal aid Air Canada and Air Transat have received and what Sunwing has negotiated so far . The other airlines arranged additional loans from the government specifically to fund passenger refunds , on top of their LEEFF loans . However , the government says it actually imposed conditions on Sunwing 's LEEFF loan : the airline had to agree to set aside the money it had received from customers for tickets to ensure they could eventually be refunded . No timeline was set for paying customers back . The COVID-19 pandemic has taken a punishing financial toll on Canada 's airline industry . ( Fred Hutton/CBC ) A statement sent to CBC News from the office of Finance Minister Chrystia Freeland says , " As part of the LEEFF loan that Sunwing received in February 2021 , Sunwing committed to refunding its customers for pandemic-related cancellations . " The email sent by press secretary Katherine Cuplinskas also says , " As an industry-wide refund process is now in place , the federal government fully expects Sunwing to uphold its commitment to refund customers and conversations continue with the airline to ensure this happens . " Asked why it 's taking so long for customers to receive those refunds , especially since Sunwing was told to set the money aside , Cuplinskas said that 's a question for the airline . The delay could be due in part to the fact Sunwing and the government are currently negotiating a separate refund loan . The expectation is the airlines will start repaying the loans once travel picks up after the pandemic is under control . Ian Jack , vice-president of public affairs with the Canadian Automobile Association ( CAA ) , says he is sympathetic to the plight of all airlines , including Sunwing , but the carrier should offer refunds promptly to customers whose flights were cancelled due to the pandemic . ( Stephane Richer/CBC ) Ian Jack , vice-president of public affairs with the Canadian Automobile Association ( CAA ) , a retail leisure travel vendor , said the situation with Sunwing is unfair to customers . " Arguably , Sunwing has had a bit of a double benefit here . They 've got the government loans and they 've got all that customers ' money , " said Jack , who serves as a consumer advocate for issues related to transportation . He also acknowledges that Sunwing , like all airlines , is in a tough spot . " Nobody would want to be trying to run an airline these days , " he said . " And certainly over the past year or so , we have to have some sympathy for a carrier that 's just been sideswiped and almost had its business shut down . " Customer concerns Even so , he said , Sunwing customers have had to wait far too long for refunds . " It 's really unconscionable how long this has taken . It 's been over a year now since the skies were originally shut down due to COVID . The government needs to revisit this with Sunwing and say to them , ' Look , get the money flowing . ' " Glenn Waddingham is nervous about whether that will happen . " My fear is that Sunwing is going to go bankrupt and then we 're going to be part of their debtors and we 're getting nothing . " <p> JOHANNESBURG ( AP ) -- A top official in South Africa 's ruling African National Congress has taken the party to court to challenge his suspension pending charges of fraud and corruption against him , heightening tensions within the fractured organization once led by Nelson Mandela . Ace Magashule is the secretary general of the ANC and a fierce political rival of party leader and South African President Cyril Ramaphosa . Magashule 's decision to go to court is another indication of the rival factions within the ANC , and is viewed as a direct challenge to Ramaphosa 's drive to rid the ANC of the corruption that has damaged its image -- and that of Africa 's most developed economy -- over the past decade . In court papers , Magashule has questioned the legality of the party rule , pushed by Ramaphosa , which forces ANC officials facing criminal charges to " step aside " from their positions until their cases are finalized . Magashule has said the rule undermines the constitutional principle of a person being innocent until proven guilty . South African national broadcaster SABC reported Friday that Magashule 's lawyers had filed the papers at the Gauteng High Court on Thursday . The move also raises questions over whether Magashule will apologize , as instructed by the ANC leadership , for sending a letter to Ramaphosa purportedly suspending the president . Magashule has been given until Friday to apologize or face more disciplinary action . ANC officials have been implicated in a wave of corruption scandals over the last decade , most notably under the rule of former party leader and former South African president Jacob Zuma , whose own corruption trial is due to start next week . Some ANC leaders have already resigned from their positions under the " step aside " rule and others may be suspended in the coming weeks if they do not stand down . Magashule is the most senior official in the party to be affected by the rule , seen as a key policy for Ramaphosa in his battle with an ANC faction sympathetic to Magashule and Zuma . Magashule is set to go on trial in August on charges of fraud and corruption related to a government contract worth over $18 million . It is alleged that Magashule personally benefited from the contract , which was awarded when he was the premier of Free State province , which issued the contract . He has denied all charges and framed the case as politically motivated . Last month , Ramaphosa testified at the state-backed inquiry into widescale corruption in government and state-owned companies during Zuma 's tenure as president from 2009 to 2018 . Ramaphosa is set to testify again later this month about what he knew about corruption in government during the period when he was deputy president from 2014 to 2018 . Zuma has refused to testify at the commission , which is separate from his corruption trial , and is facing a legal battle with the inquiry . The inquiry has applied for him to be jailed for refusing to obey a court order compelling him to testify . Mogomotsi Magome , The Associated Press <p> Regina police say they arrested a man this week after he allegedly hit a woman with a protest sign . Police were called to Regina 's so-called COVID hotel on Wednesday . The downtown hotel houses a COVID-19 isolation unit for people who have tested positive but have no place to self-isolate . A woman working at the unit had stepped outside during her break when she ran into a group of protesters . Following a verbal exchange , one of the protesters struck her on the head with a sign , she told police . When officers arrived , the 56-year-old woman pointed out the protester and he was arrested . A 62-year-old Regina man now faces a charge of assault with a weapon . He will make his first court appearance in September . 
@@52733866 <p> Rogers Media uses cookies for personalization , to customize its online advertisements , and for other purposes . Learn more or change your cookie preferences . Rogers Media supports the Digital Advertising Alliance principles . By continuing to use our service , you agree to our use of cookies . <p> We use cookies ( why ? ) You can change cookie preferences . Continued site use signifies consent . <h> Interfaith efforts strained by Israeli-Palestinian violence <p> by David Crary And Luis Andres Henao , The Associated Press <p> Posted May 14 , 2021 8:01 am EDT <p> Last Updated May 14 , 2021 at 8:08 am EDT <p> The escalation of violence in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is dismaying American Muslims and Jews who 've been working to build bridges between their communities and are now struggling to quell fear and anger in their own circles . <p> " We 're heartbroken , " said Muslim attorney Atiya Aftab , the New Jersey-based co-founder of a major interfaith group , the Sisterhood of Salaam Shalom . She added that the situation threatens to derail the group 's work . <p> The organization , which seeks to build @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ girls , issued a statement regretting the " violent response " by Hamas , the Islamic militant group ruling Gaza , but was more expansive and forceful in condemning actions by Israeli security forces . <p> " The Israeli government has a responsibility to stop settlers and extremists from taking over the land and allow those who live in East Jerusalem to rightfully live there in peace , " the group said . " As Muslim and Jewish women of faith ... we have a responsibility to rise up and respond to injustice and prejudice . " <p> The grim events in Israel and Gaza have fueled " raw discussions " among members of another Muslim-Jewish partnership , Los Angeles-based NewGround , according to its executive director , Aziza Hasan . <p> She said a private Zoom gathering is planned for next week to address tensions within the community , which includes Palestinian Americans , Muslims with origins elsewhere and Jews holding a wide range of political views . Many members have relatives or friends in areas wracked by the violence . <p> " NewGround has been working hard to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hasan , a Muslim , said via email . " There is fear that the violence is becoming increasingly personal in shared neighborhoods . " <p> " We do not know the immediate path through this , but we are certain that until we humanize one another , there wo n't be a path at all , " Hasan added , " We encourage our community members to reach out to someone else who holds a different view and listen to their story with compassion . " <p> Andrea Hodos , NewGround 's associate director , said she has close family in Israel and worries for Israelis taking refuge in bomb shelters . She has Palestinian American friends for whom she is also concerned , including one with family members in Gaza where there 's little protection against Israeli air strikes . <p> " We need to keep all these people in mind , " said Hodos , who is Jewish . " It does n't work all the time ... but our goal is to get as many people to stay at the table as possible , hearing one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ -- to be able to be with one another through these times . " <p> Ingrid Mattson , a Muslim scholar and former president of the Islamic Society of North America , wrote this week on Twitter that she fears " meaningful interfaith relationships " among U.S. Christians , Muslims and Jews are in jeopardy " if those involved continue to be silent on Israeli attacks on Palestinians in Jerusalem and Al-Aqsa Mosque " during the holy month of Ramadan . <p> " This is the crisis of a generation , " she wrote . <p> In an interview , Mattson said she was anguished by what she saw as a muted response from some faith groups as that holy site was attacked , a traumatizing event for Muslims everywhere : " It makes a person question the nature of the ( interfaith ) relationship . " <p> She said there have been some important statements by allies , citing groups such as Rabbis for Human Rights and Jewish Voice for Peace that have strongly condemned Israeli policies and actions as cruel and unjust . But Western Christian denominations , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both sides to be peaceful . <p> " I feel like people should have learned something from the last year of public education about anti-Black racism and police violence against Black people in America -- that you have to say what 's wrong , " she said . <p> Jewish Voice for Peace , a California-based advocacy group critical of Israeli policies toward the Palestinians , lists interfaith outreach as one of its core missions . <p> ' We 've built deep partnerships with Muslim American groups , " said the organization 's executive director , Stefanie Fox . " To see this happening , in this most sacred period , is truly horrifying . ... There 's this incredibly urgent call to work together to hold the Israeli government accountable . " <p> The conflict came up during a Zoom session this week held by the Interfaith Dialogue Association of Grand Rapids , Michigan , to train medical residents on how to approach patients of different cultures and religions . <p> " You 'd think that subject was far enough away from Israel-Palestine . But no , it actually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ president of the association , which is affiliated with the Kaufman Interfaith Institute at Grand Valley State University . " It 's very present right now . Very sadly so , as you can imagine . " <p> " This is such a complicated mess , " Stella added . " If you do not approach it with the acknowledgment that there is no 100 percent absolute right guy in this fight , then you 're not going to engage in any interfaith dialogue . " <p> The violence has disrupted -- but not halted -- the work of Kids4Peace , a global organization based in Jerusalem whose work includes a program bringing together young Israelis and Palestinians . <p> " Since the most recent escalation between Gaza and Israel and the attempted lynchings at night by Arabs and Jews in some mixed cities , the hatred and violence in the streets around us is even more palpable , " the director of the youth encounter program , Ittay Flescher , said via email . <p> Flescher said some members were leery about leaving home to attend the group 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meals during Ramadan . <p> " Many youth felt it important to come together and share their frustrations , anger and beliefs with one another at this time , " he wrote . " If Jerusalem wo n't be a city that is a true home for all of us , it will not ultimately be a safe home for any of us . " <p> <p> Associated Press religion coverage receives support from the Lilly Endowment through The Conversation U.S. The AP is solely responsible for this content . 
@@52734115 <p> Independent and neutral with regard to all political and religious orientations , Tolerance.ca ? aims to promote awareness of the major democratic principles on which tolerance is based . <p> Director / Editor : Victor Teboul , Ph.D . <p> Looking inside ourselves and out at the world Independent and neutral with regard to all political and religious orientations , Tolerance.ca ? aims to promote awareness of the major democratic principles on which tolerance is based . <h> Israel 's Conflict with Palestinians Escalates <p> Share this article <p> The Palestinian militant group Hamas launched another barrage of rockets at Israeli neighborhoods Thursday , and Israel responded with more airstrikes in the Gaza Strip , as efforts to halt the escalating violence moved forward . <p> All information reproduced on the Web pages of www.tolerance.ca ( including articles , images , photographs , and logos ) is protected by intellectual property rights owned by Tolerance.ca ? Inc. or , in certain cases , by its author . Any reproduction of the information for use other than personal use is prohibited . In particular , any alteration , widespread distribution , translation , sale , commercial exploitation or reutilization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prior written permission of Tolerance.ca ? Inc. , is strictly forbidden . For information , please contact info@tolerance.ca <p> Tolerance.ca ? Inc. is not responsible for external links nor for the contents of the advertisements appearing on Tolerance.ca ? . Ads companies may use information about your visits to this web site in order to provide advertisements about goods and services of interest to you . 
@@52734872 <p> This copy is for your personal non-commercial use only . To order presentation-ready copies of Toronto Star content for distribution to colleagues , clients or customers , or inquire about permissions/licensing , please go to : **27;1036;TOOLONG <h> US sending new aid to Palestinians as conflict intensifies <p> ML <p> By Matthew LeeThe Associated Press <p> Fri. , May 14 , 2021timer1 min. read <p> WASHINGTON ( AP ) -- The Biden administration notified Congress this week that it will send millions of dollars in U.S. assistance to the Palestinians aimed at promoting peace with Israel even as violence between the two sides rages . <p> As the conflict intensifies despite U.S. calls for restraint , the administration notified Congress on Thursday that it will provide $10 million to Palestinian groups in the West Bank and Gaza to support exchange and reconciliation projects with Israelis . The recipients of the aid were not named . <p> The State Department said Friday that the money is part of more than $100 million that the administration allocated to the Palestinians earlier this year , reversing a near total cutoff in support under former President Donald Trump . <p> In a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U.S. Agency for International Development said the $10 million would go to support " people-to-people efforts to bring together conflict-affected groups to address divisions that may be rooted in group differences such as ethnicity , religion , status , class , or political affiliation in areas affected by conflict and civil war . " <p> It said the money would be spent mainly on cross-border projects between Israel and the West Bank and Gaza , but might also include programs for Jews and Arabs living in Israel . <p> The fighting between the two sides has been intensifying , with rocket attacks from Hamas militants in Gaza on Israel and increasing retaliation from the Israeli military . Violence between Arabs and Jews within Israel has also been increasing . <p> The Biden administration has made no secret of its belief that Trump 's approach to the Mideast , which alienated the Palestinians , was flawed and made prospects for peace less likely . The administration has announced $130 million in assistance to the Palestinians , which appears aimed at encouraging them to return to negotiations with Israel . <h> More @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stories <p> Copyright owned or licensed by Toronto Star Newspapers Limited . All rights reserved . Republication or distribution of this content is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Toronto Star Newspapers Limited and/or its licensors . To order copies of Toronto Star articles , please go to : **27;1065;TOOLONG 
@@52735099 <h> Hamburger menu <p> Each week , BIV staff will share with you some of the interesting stories we have found from around the web . <p> Mark Falkenberg , deputy managing editor : <p> Last week , after leaked COVID-19 data proved the province had been withholding vital information from the public , the B.C. government doubled down on the bogus claim that it has been as transparent as other governments . Denying the obvious , says the Orca 's Maclean Kay , does neither the government nor the public any favours : " It 's one thing when the restaurant gets your order wrong . It 's quite another when they insist you 're mistaken , and the burger on your plate is actually the tacos you ordered . " -- the Orca <p> The drought of small talk during the pandemic has done outsized harm to our mental health , says science writer Hannah Seo , who quotes behavioural scientist Jessica Methot on the " crucial social ritual " of everyday conversation : <p> " Every dialogue feels transactional because , now , our conversations are based on our work roles , says Methot . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ talk , it seems , is reenergizing : a palate-cleansing moment of respite when you can prime yourself for whatever 's next . " -- the Walrus <p> Hankering for a Vancouver-to-New York travel option in the same time that it takes to cycle from Vancouver to the North Shore ? Oblique wave detonation technology could be satisfying that hankering sooner than later . -- New Atlas ; University of Central Florida <p> The interstellar adventures of Voyager 1 get more interesting and surreal the farther it gets from Earth . This dispatch comes from around the 14 billion mile marker somewhere on the outskirts of the heliopause . Spooky . -- Vice <p> The story behind the surprising progress in reducing the costs and increasing the effectiveness of solar power , courtesy of Australia and China , two countries that are often not on each other 's Christmas card mailing list . -- The Guardian <p> Author Kerry Brown examines the rise of one of the world 's most powerful men to the helm of the Chinese Communist Party , its influential committees and the powerbrokers in Xi 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revolutionary father , expelled by Mao during the Cultural Revolution ; his time as a regional leader ; his business dealings and allegiances in power struggles ; and his role in the internal battles raging between the old men of the Deng Xiaping era and the new , wealthy ' princelings ' . <p> Nelson Bennett , Reporter <p> Mindreading device gives paralyzed man a voice . Using brain implants that detect brain activity , neuroscientists have given a paralyzed man the ability to write out his thoughts at a rate of 16 words per minute . By simply thinking about using his hand to write , the subject generates brain signals that can be translated into letters. -- Gizmodo <p> Make up your mind , Elon . Elon Musk , who has been personally bullish on cryptocurrencies , is doing an about-turn . Tesla itself bought $1.5 billion in bitcoin earlier this year and announced it would start accepting as payment from customers . But Musk is now saying Tesla will not accept bitcoin , citing environmental concerns . Bitcoin consumes a small-country 's worth of power to mine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or nuclear power , it means bitcoin mining has a massive carbon footprint. -- CNBC <p> Real estate marketing whiz , and art collector , Bob Rennie once took me on a personal tour of his art gallery in Chinatown , and I 'm aware of his passion for collecting fine pieces . So , I was intrigued to read this interview about his art-buying habits , his first purchase , what he hangs above his sofa , what he thinks is his most expensive work etc. -- artnet news <p> Markets were volatile this week , but plenty of evidence suggests the future is bright . <p> U.S. consumers ' net worth hit a record high of US$130.2 trillion at the end of 2020 , up 23% from a couple years prior . Congress has approved another round of stimulus . Money strategists say they have never seen consumers emerge this strong from a recession . <p> There 's no telling the future , and the sell-in-May-and-go-away maxim may hold true this year , particularly given such a steep stock-market run-up in the past year , but , looking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ -- Barron 's <p> Rising tensions in Israel and Gaza this week prompted columnist Nicholas Kristof to write about the truism that extremists on one side empower those on the other . That 's the case with a number of political issues . Middle ground is needed . -- New York Times 
@@52735558 <h> New burger pop-up in prime English Bay spot features sloppy , cheese-covered American classic <p> A new pop-up burger " club " housed in one of the West End 's best restaurant locations is an homage to a classic American staple . <p> Pigot 's Burger Club -- which opened for takeout only ( pick-up or delivery ) on May 5 in a " borrowed storefront " at the former Boathouse location at English Bay -- sells just one thing : cheeseburgers . <p> It shares the premises at 1795 Beach Avenue with Vancouver 's second Craft Beer Market location , which opened there in late March after renovations and is the principal tenant . <p> Mike Pigot <p> Calgary chef Mike Pigot -- named best chef in that city 's 2020 Best of Calgary awards , according to a news release , and a past winner of the Food Network 's Guy 's Grocery Games -- experimented in his apartment with burger recipes ( incorporating " Pigot 's Secret Sauce " and his custom spice blend ) before borrowing commercial kitchen space from a friend and launching a pop-up . <p> " The burger is a culmination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a classic American cheeseburger , " Pigot said in that release . " I played around with recipe for months , if not years , to get the right balance of flavours . " <p> Speaking by phone to the Straight on May 14 , Pigot 's enthusiasm for his latest venture comes through all the way from Cowtown . " We launched it in Calgary early this year in February , " Pigot enthused . " It was amazing . " <p> After selling hundreds of burgers every day , Pigot launched a second Pigot 's Burger Club in Toronto in mid-April with well-known local chef Jerome Robinson . <p> Another success in Hogtown led Pigot to expand once more , this time to the West Coast . The Lotusland model is run " in collaboration " with local chef Alex Chen , the executive chef for Signature Restaurants and an Iron Chef Canada winner . And Pigot could not be happier with how Vancouver has greeted his specialty cheeseburgers . <p> " We sold out two of the days we 've been open , and we prep 500 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Straight . <p> Customers can order ahead for delivery ( UberEats , DoorDash , or Skip the Dishes ) or arrange pick-up through the website . Hungry West Enders or anyone else can drive or stroll on down to English Bay to scoop up their ' Merican-cheese-covered patties with brown-sugar onions on butter-toasted potato rolls , along with a handful of specialty sides . <p> ( It is worth noting that Pigot 's " ' Merican " cheese is n't the bright-orange processed cheese food synonymous with U.S. greasy-spoon cheeseburgers and grilled-cheese sandwiches of legend but a " curated American cheddar " . ) <p> Pigot said he especially likes looking outside the pop-up and seeing " 35 or 40 people lined up or waiting " for their orders . " It 's an astounding response from the city , " he said . <p> Pigot 's bacon cheeseburger ( left ) and mushroom cheeseburger are the only ones to come with " groceries " ( lettuce and tomato ) . <p> Those who love their burgers messily loaded will be right at home with Pigot 's creations , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " by a hungry interviewer . " There 's lots of cheese -- it 's a messy , delicious guilty pleasure , for sure ! " <p> The pop-up 's specialty patties -- certified organic , medication-free , and grass-fed , from Beretta Farms -- are featured in three beasts : a cheeseburger , a bacon cheeseburger , and a mushroom cheeseburger ( with that classic simple version available in single- , double- , or triple-patty sizes ) . <p> There is also a " Non Meat a Tarian " plant-based version made with Impossible Burger patties , for those so inclined ( except for the bacon version ) , and they can be stacked as well . <p> Partner chef Chen will also be formulating a special burger of his own , Pigot said , a double-patty design that utilizes " bacon aioli and white cheddar " . <p> Asked which burger is the most popular with Vancouverites , Pigot gave the nod to the basic model : " We do quite a few cheeseburgers , " he said , adding , " My go-to is the double cheeseburger. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Morning Brief is brought to you by Chartered Professional Accountants of Canada . Transitioning to a net-zero emission economy requires sustainable finance . Our policy brief looks at steps the federal government can take to enable a more sustainable and prosperous future . <p> -- Path to permanent residency for families of air-crash victims : Ottawa will allow the families of victims of two plane crashes -- Ukraine International Airlines Flight 752 , which was shot down in Iran , and Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302 -- to apply for permanent residency . Immigration Minister Marco Mendicino called it " justice and accountability for the families by demonstrating compassion . " <p> -- Defence Department pursues victims ' bill of rights : After a long delay in drafting regulations to support C-77 -- legislation that inserts a victims ' bill of rights into the separate justice system for the Armed Forces -- Defence Minister Harjit Sajjan is launching a survey of survivors of military sexual assault and misconduct , which he says will enshrine victims ' rights in Canadian military law . CBC News has more . <p> -- 95 per cent of rapid tests unused : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ procured by the federal government have been used . Rapid tests are less effective than PCR tests , but are still useful screening tools in some settings . <p> -- New U.S. ambassador : President Joe Biden has picked David Cohen , a Pennsylvania " powerbroker " and Washington lobbyist , as the next ambassador to Canada , the Globe and Mail reports . He hosted the first fundraising event for Biden as a presidential candidate in 2019 . <p> -- No freedom-of-speech concerns found in Bill C-10 : A Charter review by the Justice Department has found that the updated version of Bill C-10 to amend the Broadcasting Act does not infringe on freedom of speech . Conservative Leader Erin O'Toole said his party would nevertheless vote against it . <p> -- Israel-Gaza latest : In an escalation from the Israeli airstrikes and Gaza rockets used so far this week , Israel launched artillery and tank fire from the border into Gaza this morning . The Israeli military said no ground troops have crossed the border . Last night , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu tweeted : " The last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long as necessary . " Some 119 people in Gaza , and eight in Israel , have been killed since Monday . <p> Within Israel , Arab Israelis and Jewish mobs continued to clash in the streets , in what Israel 's president warned could become a civil war . <p> -- Irish health service hit by cyberattack : Ireland 's health service has been hit with a " significant " ransomware attack , forcing it to temporarily shut down its IT system . In May 2017 , Britain 's national health service was also brought to a standstill for days due to a ransomware attack . <p> Separately , DarkSide , the same group that targeted Colonial Pipelines earlier this week , has hit a European unit of Toshiba with a ransomware attack this morning . <p> Meanwhile , Colonial Pipeline has paid 75 Bitcoin , or nearly $5 million , in ransom money to the extortionists , thought to be based in Russia . The New York Times has more . <p> -- New U.S. masking guidelines : The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention announced new masking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , go maskless indoors . They can also go maskless outdoors in crowded spaces . There are still a few exceptions . <p> -- Elsewhere : Marjorie Taylor Greene accused of " verbal assault " on Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez . COVID cases surge in Nepal . Myanmar frees Japanese journalist . The Kabul school attack death toll has increased to 94 people , most of whom were schoolgirls . Harrowing testimony from inside Tigray . The Ugandan and Congo armies are joining forces in eastern DRC for a joint offensive against Islamist rebels . 200 Glasgow residents surrounded a van to stop the deportation of two men who were detained in an early-morning Eid raid . <p> An Australian woman -- who 's never even been to Ireland -- woke up from tonsil surgery with an Irish accent . It 's now been a couple of weeks and she has n't managed to shake it . <h> More from iPolitics <p> By submitting content , you agree that you are personally responsible for the content that you publish and that iPolitics owns the copyright in the content that you submit . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on blogs or forums . Please see the Terms of Use for more details . 
@@52735685 <p> Smoke and flames rise during Israeli air strikes amid a flare-up of Israeli-Palestinian violence , in Gaza May 12 , 2021 . Photo by Ibraheem Abu Mustafa /Reuters <h> Article content <p> Former U.S. President Donald Trump has slammed Biden 's response to the Israel-Palestine clashes , accusing him of ' weakness ' and a ' lack of support ' for Israel . <p> The president , who has always taken a pro-Israel stance during his time in the White House , released a statement on Tuesday , which claimed that the " world is getting more violent and more unstable " under his successor 's leadership . <p> " When I was in office we were known as the Peace Presidency , because Israel 's adversaries knew that the United States stood strongly with Israel and there would be swift retribution if Israel was attacked , " the statement reads . <p> Fierce clashes between the Israeli military and rocket squads in the Hamas-ruled Gaza Strip have spurred a concerted diplomatic push to end the most serious fighting to convulse the area since a 2014 war . <p> Egypt , the United Nations and the U.S. appealed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ barrages sent the death toll climbing . Forty-eight Palestinians have been reported killed in Gaza and six people in Israel since the violence abruptly exploded late Monday . Three Palestinians have died in confrontations with Israeli security forces in the West Bank . <h> Advertisement <p> Story continues below <p> This advertisement has not loaded yet , but your article continues below . <h> Article content <p> On Tuesday , The Biden administration called for both Israel and Palestinians to show calm and restraint , asking both sides to avoid actions that could lead to " deeply lamentable " civilian deaths . <p> Ambassadors on both sides to the conflict have criticized the U.S. 's lukewarm response to the clashes , calling the response unacceptable and urging that they do more than stand back . <p> Israel 's adversaries knew that the United States stood strongly with Israel <p> " The continued paralysis of the Security Council on the situation in Palestine is unacceptable , " the Palestinian ambassador to the United Nations , Riyad Mansour , said Tuesday . " The international community , particularly the Security Council , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ <p> " The US State Department message is not acceptable to me , " Israel 's ambassador to the United States , Gilad Erdan , said on Twitter . " It is impossible to put in the same message statements by Israeli leaders who call for calm alongside instigators and terrorist organizations that launch missiles and rockets . " <p> State Department spokesman Ned Price rejected the criticism on Tuesday , arguing that the administration 's ability to respond is " going to be in some cases limited . " <p> The bombardments in Gaza had escalated sharply Tuesday evening as Hamas unleashed a massive volley of rockets at metropolitan Tel Aviv , Israel 's commercial heartland , and Israel 's south that overwhelmed missile defenses . Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu warned that " Hamas will pay a very heavy price for its aggression , " and a torrent of airstrikes followed , targeting military facilities , buildings used by the Islamic militant group , and key intelligence and military commanders . <h> Advertisement <p> Story continues below <p> This advertisement has not loaded yet , but your article @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ international powers have appealed for calm , and Palestinian media reported that Egypt , which traditionally has mediated Israeli-Gaza conflicts , will send separate delegations to each side Wednesday . The UN Security Council has scheduled a second emergency session on the crisis for Wednesday . U.S. President Joe Biden directed National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan and Secretary of State Antony Blinken to reach out to their Israeli counterparts . <p> The hostilities spilled over from weeks of clashes between Israeli security forces and Palestinians in contested Jerusalem . The holy city , home to Jewish , Muslim and Christian shrines , lies at the heart of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict , and competing claims to it have underpinned the latest confrontation . <h> More On This Topic <p> " The occupation set this fire in Jerusalem and is responsible for any bombing that takes place , " Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh said late Tuesday . " If the occupation wants to escalate , then the resistance is ready , and if it wants to stop , the resistance is also ready . " <p> The violence has set off a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Palestinians , and unprecedented clashes with Jews and destruction of property in several cities . A state of emergency was declared on Tuesday in the central city of Lod , where Jews and Arabs live in a mixed community , after Arab assailants set synagogues , shops and cars on fire following the killing of an Arab resident by a Jewish man amid rioting a day earlier . <h> Advertisement <p> Story continues below <p> This advertisement has not loaded yet , but your article continues below . <h> Article content <p> Israel and Gaza have skirmished repeatedly since Hamas took control of Gaza in 2007 , and have fought three wars , the last seven years ago . <p> The current round has roots in tensions that have been festering since the beginning of the Muslim fasting month of Ramadan in April . Israeli restrictions on gathering at a traditional Ramadan meeting place outside Jerusalem 's Old City touched off the unrest , but after they were lifted , protests were rekindled by the threatened evictions of Palestinians from longtime homes in the eastern sector of the city that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the international community consider east Jerusalem occupied territory . <p> Fighting is flaring at a time when Netanyahu 's rivals are trying to piece together a government after the fourth election in two years , and it has already impeded those efforts . <p> Mansour Abbas , head of the Islamist United Arab List faction , froze negotiations to join that potential coalition , citing the ongoing conflict . The lethal surge in violence has made it untenable for Abbas to join a Zionist-led government at this time , but he told Israel Radio on Wednesday that he 'll go back to talks once the fighting is over . <h> Latest National Stories <h> Advertisement <p> This advertisement has not loaded yet , but your article continues below . <h> Canada.com Newsletter <p> Sign-up to receive the weekly top stories , contest and promotion announcements every Tuesday <p> Email Address <p> There was an error , please provide a valid email address . <p> By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc . You may unsubscribe any time by clicking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Postmedia Network Inc. 365 Bloor Street East , Toronto , Ontario , M4W 3L4 416-383-2300 <h> Thanks for signing up ! <p> A welcome email is on its way . If you do n't see it please check your junk folder . <p> The next issue of Canada.com Newsletter will soon be in your inbox . <p> We encountered an issue signing you up . Please try again <h> Trending <h> This Week in Flyers <h> Comments <p> Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles . Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site . We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful . We have enabled email notifications -- you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment , there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments . Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings . <h> Notice for the Postmedia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( including ads ) , and allows us to analyze our traffic . Read more about cookies here . By continuing to use our site , you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy . 
@@52736204 <h> EU calls for immediate end to violence in Mideast <p> 11 hours ago <p> BRUSSELS , May 15 ( KUNA ) -- The European Union is actively engaged in diplomatic efforts to contribute to defusing the ongoing violence in Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territory . Over the past days , EU High Representative , Josep Borrell has been continuing his outreach to support efforts to de-escalate the extremely worrying situation in the region , especially in and around Gaza , a statement from his office said Saturday afternoon . In reaching out to his interlocutors , Borrell has consistently underlined the need to immediately end the grave escalation of violence , prevent its further spillover and ensure that civilians on all sides are protected . He has also called for full respect for international humanitarian law and for full humanitarian access to be granted to those most in need in Gaza . <p> " Root causes that have led to this situation must be addressed . The status quo of the holy sites needs to be respected and any acts of incitement around them avoided . Borrell also recalled the EU 's " long-standing position on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ including in East Jerusalem , " stressed the statement . <p> He held discussions earlier this week with Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas and Israeli Foreign Minister Gabi Ashkenazi . Borrell also exchanged views with key regional players , including Foreign Minister of Egypt Sameh Shoukry , Foreign Minister of Jordan Ayman Safadi and Foreign Minister of Turkey Mevlut Cavusoglu . At the same time , he remains in close contact with Foreign Ministers of EU Member States in order to coordinate and discuss how the EU can best contribute to ending the current violence . <p> He has instructed the EU Special Representative for the Middle East Peace Process , Sven Koopmans , to work actively with other envoys from the Middle East Quartet to address the crisis . On the ground , the EU Delegation in Tel Aviv and the EU Representation in Jerusalem are also engaging with the Israeli and Palestinian authorities and with Member States representatives , it noted . " The EU 's priority and message in this context remains clear : violence must end now . There is an urgent need to address the root @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which allows for a return to meaningful negotiations towards a two-state solution based on the internationally agreed parameters . Both Israelis and Palestinians alike have the right to live in safety and security , freedom and democracy . These constant cycles of violence must be brought to an end , " it added . 
@@52738313 <h> Breadcrumb Trail Links <h> Dyer : Israel-Palestine escalation well-timed for Netanyahu and Hamas <p> Objective allies generally do n't even talk to each other . They do n't have common values . Their ultimate goals may be completely incompatible . They often hate each other . But they share some intermediate goal , and are clever enough to realize they can both get what they want by acting together in certain ways . <h> Article content <p> Objective allies generally do n't even talk to each other . They do n't have common values . Their ultimate goals may be completely incompatible . They often hate each other . But they share some intermediate goal , and are clever enough to realize they can both get what they want by acting together in certain ways . <p> Sometimes those ways may involve shooting at each other , but if acting that way brings a result that serves their various purposes , they are still objective allies . So Binyamin Netanyahu , still prime minister of Israel despite his precarious political position , and Hamas , the Islamist Palestinian organization that controls the Gaza Strip , are objective allies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ HamasBack to video <p> Right now the missiles are flying and people are dying in the Gaza Strip and Israel , and as usual it 's hard to say who or what started it . Was it the Israeli air strikes that hit 150 targets in Gaza and killed about 30 people including nine children on Tuesday ? Or the Hamas fighters who launched 130 of their homemade missiles at Israeli towns earlier in the day and killed three Israelis ? <h> Advertisement <p> Story continues below <p> This advertisement has not loaded yet , but your article continues below . <h> Article content <p> Never mind who started it . The right question is who benefits from what is happening right now ? It 's the same old objective allies who have been playing this game for a quarter-century : Hamas and Netanyahu . <p> Consider Netanyahu 's position . He has just failed to get an election outcome that will let him create and lead a coalition government . He is on trial on serious corruption charges , and may go to jail if he does not remain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see Netanyahu gone have a month to try to make a different coalition that excludes him , but they have a problem . The electoral arithmetic means that their coalition must contain the United Arab List , one of the parties that represent Israel 's 20 per cent minority of Arab citizens . <p> No Arab party has ever been part of an Israeli government , so putting this coalition together was already quite tricky . Doing it while Israelis and Palestinians are killing each other is impossible . UAL chairman Mansour Abbas has already suspended the talks with his potential Jewish coalition partners . <p> If coalition talks fail , Israel will have to hold another election ( the fifth in 30 months ) in the fall . Netanyahu will remain prime minister in the meantime , and will then have a fifth chance to get a right-wing majority coalition that will pass legislation safeguarding him from further prosecution . <p> I ca n't read Netanyahu 's mind , but if he were a ruthlessly self-serving politician he would certainly find this little war politically useful . How about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Story continues below <p> This advertisement has not loaded yet , but your article continues below . <h> Article content <p> Hamas needs a war right now less than Netanyahu does , but it 's always up for one . Its business model is perpetual rejection of peace with Israel in the expectation that divine intervention will one day deliver total victory and eliminate the Jewish state . <p> Hamas is in permanent competition with Fatah , the rival Palestinian political movement that accepted the now moribund two-state solution , which envisaged Israeli and Palestinian states living side by side . A little war with Israel now and then is good for Hamas 's image . <p> The Hamas-Netanyahu objective alliance is based on the fact that Netanyahu hates the idea of a two-state solution just as much as Hamas does . They began by strangling that deal together in 1995-96 . <p> The deal came out of the Oslo Accord of 1992 , in which Israeli prime minister Yitzhak Rabin and Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat agreed to move toward two parallel states living in peace . <p> Rabin was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his successor , Shimon Peres , to win the 1996 election on a sympathy vote and go through with the Oslo deal . Instead , Hamas went on a terrorist spree , bombing buses in Israel to cause maximum casualties , in order to drive Israeli voters into the arms of the anti-Oslo Accords nationalist right instead . <p> It succeeded , and the right-wing candidate , ex-commando Netanyahu , became prime minister instead and sabotaged the peace process . It was never very likely to succeed , but Hamas and Netanyahu act as objective allies whenever the corpse of the two-state solution threatens to rise from its shallow grave . <h> Share this article in your social network <h> Advertisement <p> This advertisement has not loaded yet , but your article continues below . <h> Latest National Stories <h> Advertisement <p> Story continues below <p> This advertisement has not loaded yet , but your article continues below . <h> LFP Noon News Roundup <p> Sign up to receive a curated collection of links and highlights from our award-winning breaking news coverage , in-depth analysis and unmatched investigative features at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ error , please provide a valid email address . <p> By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc . You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails . Postmedia Network Inc. 365 Bloor Street East , Toronto , Ontario , M4W 3L4 416-383-2300 <h> Thanks for signing up ! <p> A welcome email is on its way . If you do n't see it please check your junk folder . <p> The next issue of LFP Noon News Roundup will soon be in your inbox . <p> We encountered an issue signing you up . Please try again <h> Trending <h> This Week in Flyers <h> Comments <p> Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles . Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site . We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful . We have enabled email notifications -- you will now receive an email if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments . Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings . <h> Notice for the Postmedia Network <p> This website uses cookies to personalize your content ( including ads ) , and allows us to analyze our traffic . Read more about cookies here . By continuing to use our site , you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy . 
@@52738502 <h> Latest Stories <p> FORT SMITH , Ark . ( AP ) -- An Arkansas man who authorities say fatally shot an 87-year-old neighbor was trying to lure residents of his apartment complex outside before someone shot and killed him , according to witnesses . " He was yelling and screaming : ' You guys get out here , come out here , everyone get out of this building right now , ' " Janey Peugh , who lives at the complex , told KFSM television station . Police in Fort Smith , Arkansas , located on the border with Oklahoma , say that after Zachary Arnold , 26 , fatally shot Lois Hicks on Saturday morning , he continued to shoot at neighboring apartments with a semi-automatic rifle . Another resident , who has not been named , retrieved a hunting rifle and shot and killed Arnold , police said . Resident Amber Lane told the television station that Hicks and Arnold lived in the same building . She said Hicks and another neighbor had gone outside before running back into their apartments . " There were two older women , both had come out , " Lane said . " One of them had ran back in , and the other one ran back in , but she did n't close her door , then he walked in and did what he did . " Police said that Hicks was shot multiple times inside her apartment . Lane said she was grateful for the neighbor who shot Arnold . " If he did n't do that , who knows how much worse it could have gotten , " Lane said . The Associated Press <p> Vancouver police say they deployed an RCMP Air One helicopter and a marine unit to disperse people gathered on downtown beaches Saturday night . According to a statement from police , thousands of people gathered on Vancouver 's beaches Saturday to enjoy the warm May weather . The statement said officers patrolled the beaches to ensure people were not drinking , and began asking people to leave at 10 p.m. , when the beaches officially close . Police said while most complied , some people refused to leave , and a small group threw bottles at officers , prompting more police to be called to the scene . Police then used spotlights from the helicopter and marine unit to disperse people . No arrests were made . B.C. health officials are currently encouraging people to socialize outdoors only , as the risk of COVID-19 transmission is significantly reduced outdoors compared to indoors . <p> PRAYAGRAJ , India ( AP ) -- Police are reaching out to villagers in northern India to investigate the recovery of bodies buried in shallow sand graves or washing up on the Ganges River banks , prompting speculation on social media that they were the remains of COVID-19 victims . In jeeps and boats , the police used portable loudspeakers with microphones asking people not to dispose of the bodies in rivers . " We are here to help you perform the last rites , " police said . On Friday , rains exposed the cloth coverings of bodies buried in shallow sand graves on the riverbank in Prayagraj , a city in Uttar Pradesh state . Navneet Sehgal , a state government spokesman , on Sunday denied local media reports that more than 1,000 corpses of COVID-19 victims had been recovered from rivers in the past two weeks . " I bet these bodies have nothing to do with COVID-19 , " he said . He said some villagers did not cremate their dead , as is customary , due to a Hindu tradition during some periods of religious significance and disposed of them in rivers or digging graves on riverbanks . K.P . Singh , a senior police officer , said authorities had earmarked a cremation ground for those who died of COVID-19 on the Prayagraj riverbank and the police were no longer allowing any burials on the riverfront . Sehgal state authorities have found " a small number " of bodies on the riverbanks , he said , but did n't give a figure . Ramesh Kumar Singh , a member of Bondhu Mahal Samiti , a philanthropic organization that helps cremate bodies , said the number of deaths is very high in rural areas , and poor people have been disposing of the bodies in the river because of the exorbitant cost of performing the last rites and shortage of woods . The cremation cost has tripled up to 15,000 rupees ( $210 ) . Health authorities last week retrieved 71 bodies that washed up on the Ganges River bank in neighboring Bihar state . Authorities performed post mortems but said they could not confirm the cause of death due to decomposition . A dozen corpses were also found last week buried in sand at two locations on the riverbank in Unnao district , 40 kilometers ( 25 miles ) southwest of Lucknow , the Uttar Pradesh state capital . District Magistrate Ravindra Kumar said an investigation is underway to identify the cause of deaths . India 's two big states , Uttar Pradesh and Bihar , with nearly 358 million people in total , are among the worst hit in the surge sweeping through the country with devastating death tolls . Hapless villagers have been rushing the sick to nearby towns and cities for treatment , many of them dying on the way , victims of India 's crumbling health care . After hitting record highs for weeks , the number of new cases was stabilizing , said Dr. V.K. Paul , a government health expert . The Health Ministry on Sunday reported 311,170 confirmed cases in the past 24 hours , down from 326,098 on Saturday . It also reported 4,077 additional deaths , taking the total fatalities to 270,284 . Both figures are almost certainly a vast undercount , experts say . Rajesh Kumar Singh And Biswajeet Banerjee , The Associated Press <p> Saskatchewan 's premier wants to see the province cheering on " North America 's greatest football team " in person when the season kicks off in August . Both Premier Scott Moe and Minister Jeremy Harrison said as much as the most recent session of the legislature concluded on Friday . When questioned about tax implementation , Harrison touted -- among other things -- the government 's work in creating a robust vaccination strategy which he said led to the creation of the provincial roadmap to reopening that would see the province return to normal including a " full Mosaic Stadium . " " I 'm not certain that we will get it right full , but we most certainly do want people to get into Mosaic here this summer , " Moe said after Friday 's question period . " We 'll achieve that in the same way that we 're achieving our reopening plan here in Saskatchewan , and that is very similar to turning up the lights with a dimmer switch . " Moe said the province was looking into a plan that would see some fans return to the stadium in a limited capacity before essentially " turning up " the restricted capacity . Randy Ambrosie , commissioner of the Canadian Football League , announced in April that he intended to get the league back in action in 2021 and set a " target date " of August 5 for the 14-game season . Ambrosie 's April statement said two things need to happen before the season can start : approval from public health officials across the country and permission from governments to allow fans in stands . " We know those fans will come from far and wide , across western Canada and from North America , to cheer on what we believe is the greatest football team in North America , " Moe said . The commissioner 's statement said contingency plans were in place and the league was open to the idea of a flexible schedule that would see teams play in front of fans in either eastern or western Canada , when they 're able to . <p> The latest numbers of confirmed COVID-19 cases in Canada as of 8:30 p.m . ET on Sunday May 16 , 2021 . There are 1,328,582 confirmed cases in Canada . Canada : 1,328,582 confirmed cases ( 70,341 active , 1,233,293 resolved , 24,948 deaths ) . *The total case count includes 13 confirmed cases among repatriated travellers . There were 4,903 new cases Sunday . The rate of active cases is 185.08 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 40,721 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 5,817 . There were 40 new reported deaths Sunday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of 306 new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is 44 . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.12 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 65.64 per 100,000 people . There have been 33,482,165 tests completed . Newfoundland and Labrador : 1,193 confirmed cases ( 89 active , 1,098 resolved , six deaths ) . There were nine new cases Sunday . The rate of active cases is 17.05 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 55 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is eight . There have been no deaths reported over the past week . The overall death rate is 1.15 per 100,000 people . There have been 255,378 tests completed . Prince Edward Island : 191 confirmed cases ( 10 active , 181 resolved , zero deaths ) . There were zero new cases Sunday . The rate of active cases is 6.26 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of five new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is one . There have been no deaths reported over the past week . The overall death rate is zero per 100,000 people . There have been 154,113 tests completed . Nova Scotia : 4,736 confirmed cases ( 1,531 active , 3,133 resolved , 72 deaths ) . There were 126 new cases Sunday . The rate of active cases is 156.33 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 819 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 117 . There were zero new reported deaths Sunday . Over the past seven days there has been one new reported death . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is zero . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.01 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 7.35 per 100,000 people . There have been 719,049 tests completed . New Brunswick : 2,063 confirmed cases ( 117 active , 1,905 resolved , 41 deaths ) . There were 11 new cases Sunday . The rate of active cases is 14.97 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 61 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is nine . There have been no deaths reported over the past week . The overall death rate is 5.25 per 100,000 people . There have been 322,461 tests completed . Quebec : 363,296 confirmed cases ( 7,312 active , 344,950 resolved , 11,034 deaths ) . There were 716 new cases Sunday . The rate of active cases is 85.28 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 5,162 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 737 . There were two new reported deaths Sunday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of 47 new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is seven . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.08 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 128.68 per 100,000 people . There have been 8,838,292 tests completed . Ontario : 509,316 confirmed cases ( 26,656 active , 474,175 resolved , 8,485 deaths ) . There were 2,199 new cases Sunday . The rate of active cases is 180.91 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 17,013 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 2,430 . There were 30 new reported deaths Sunday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of 177 new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is 25 . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.17 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 57.59 per 100,000 people . There have been 14,586,270 tests completed . Manitoba : 45,149 confirmed cases ( 4,440 active , 39,699 resolved , 1,010 deaths ) . There were 534 new cases Sunday . The rate of active cases is 321.91 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 3,200 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 457 . There were four new reported deaths Sunday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of 17 new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is two . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.18 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 73.23 per 100,000 people . There have been 740,345 tests completed . Saskatchewan : 44,531 confirmed cases ( 2,082 active , 41,932 resolved , 517 deaths ) . There were 167 new cases Sunday . The rate of active cases is 176.64 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 1,390 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 199 . There was one new reported death Sunday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of 15 new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is two . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.18 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 43.86 per 100,000 people . There have been 817,641 tests completed . Alberta : 218,961 confirmed cases ( 22,280 active , 194,538 resolved , 2,143 deaths ) . There were 1,140 new cases Sunday . The rate of active cases is 503.86 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 10,171 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 1,453 . There were three new reported deaths Sunday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of 33 new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is five . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.11 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 48.46 per 100,000 people . There have been 4,379,989 tests completed . British Columbia : 138,304 confirmed cases ( 5,717 active , 130,953 resolved , 1,634 deaths ) . There were zero new cases Sunday . The rate of active cases is 111.06 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 2,762 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 395 . There were zero new reported deaths Sunday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of 16 new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is two . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.04 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 31.74 per 100,000 people . There have been 2,623,522 tests completed . Yukon : 84 confirmed cases ( one active , 81 resolved , two deaths ) . There were zero new cases Sunday . The rate of active cases is 2.38 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of two new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is zero . There have been no deaths reported over the past week . The overall death rate is 4.76 per 100,000 people . There have been 9,129 tests completed . Northwest Territories : 121 confirmed cases ( 38 active , 83 resolved , zero deaths ) . There were zero new cases Sunday . The rate of active cases is 84.14 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 22 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is three . There have been no deaths reported over the past week . The overall death rate is zero per 100,000 people . There have been 21,730 tests completed . Nunavut : 624 confirmed cases ( 68 active , 552 resolved , four deaths ) . There was one new case Sunday . The rate of active cases is 172.79 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there has been 59 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is eight . There have been no deaths reported over the past week . The overall death rate is 10.16 per 100,000 people . There have been 14,170 tests completed . This report was automatically generated by The Canadian Press Digital Data Desk and was first published May 16 , 2021 . The Canadian Press <p> The latest numbers on COVID-19 vaccinations in Canada as of 4:00 a.m . ET on Sunday May 16 , 2021 . In Canada , the provinces are reporting 364,245 new vaccinations administered for a total of 18,098,470 doses given . Nationwide , 1,395,315 people or 3.7 per cent of the population has been fully vaccinated . The provinces have administered doses at a rate of 47,754.13 per 100,000 . There were no new vaccines delivered to the provinces and territories for a total of 20,355,204 doses delivered so far . The provinces and territories have used 88.91 per cent of their available vaccine supply . Please note that Newfoundland and Labrador , P.E.I. , Nova Scotia , New Brunswick and the territories typically do not report on a daily basis . Newfoundland and Labrador is reporting 31,625 new vaccinations administered over the past seven days for a total of 232,216 doses given . The province has administered doses at a rate of 443.473 per 1,000 . In the province , 1.89 per cent ( 9,876 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were zero new vaccines delivered to Newfoundland and Labrador for a total of 279,010 doses delivered so far . The province has received enough of the vaccine to give 53 per cent of its population a single dose . The province has used 83.23 per cent of its available vaccine supply . P.E.I. is reporting 8,000 new vaccinations administered over the past seven days for a total of 67,758 doses given . The province has administered doses at a rate of 427.148 per 1,000 . In the province , 7.20 per cent ( 11,429 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were zero new vaccines delivered to P.E.I. for a total of 84,915 doses delivered so far . The province has received enough of the vaccine to give 54 per cent of its population a single dose . The province has used 79.8 per cent of its available vaccine supply . Nova Scotia is reporting 58,592 new vaccinations administered over the past seven days for a total of 415,570 doses given . The province has administered doses at a rate of 425.833 per 1,000 . In the province , 3.98 per cent ( 38,830 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were zero new vaccines delivered to Nova Scotia for a total of 498,490 doses delivered so far . The province has received enough of the vaccine to give 51 per cent of its population a single dose . The province has used 83.37 per cent of its available vaccine supply . New Brunswick is reporting 47,400 new vaccinations administered over the past seven days for a total of 349,662 doses given . The province has administered doses at a rate of 448.262 per 1,000 . In the province , 4.20 per cent ( 32,724 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were zero new vaccines delivered to New Brunswick for a total of 415,935 doses delivered so far . The province has received enough of the vaccine to give 53 per cent of its population a single dose . The province has used 84.07 per cent of its available vaccine supply . Quebec is reporting 102,752 new vaccinations administered for a total of 4,230,520 doses given . The province has administered doses at a rate of 494.413 per 1,000 . There were zero new vaccines delivered to Quebec for a total of 4,578,079 doses delivered so far . The province has received enough of the vaccine to give 54 per cent of its population a single dose . The province has used 92.41 per cent of its available vaccine supply . Ontario is reporting 154,104 new vaccinations administered for a total of 6,925,232 doses given . The province has administered doses at a rate of 471.455 per 1,000 . In the province , 2.88 per cent ( 422,960 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were zero new vaccines delivered to Ontario for a total of 7,843,825 doses delivered so far . The province has received enough of the vaccine to give 53 per cent of its population a single dose . The province has used 88.29 per cent of its available vaccine supply . Manitoba is reporting 12,838 new vaccinations administered for a total of 638,242 doses given . The province has administered doses at a rate of 463.50 per 1,000 . In the province , 5.87 per cent ( 80,771 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were zero new vaccines delivered to Manitoba for a total of 759,870 doses delivered so far . The province has received enough of the vaccine to give 55 per cent of its population a single dose . The province has used 83.99 per cent of its available vaccine supply . Saskatchewan is reporting 18,568 new vaccinations administered for a total of 571,957 doses given . The province has administered doses at a rate of 485.057 per 1,000 . In the province , 4.09 per cent ( 48,264 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were zero new vaccines delivered to Saskatchewan for a total of 637,115 doses delivered so far . The province has received enough of the vaccine to give 54 per cent of its population a single dose . The province has used 89.77 per cent of its available vaccine supply . Alberta is reporting 57,691 new vaccinations administered for a total of 2,144,280 doses given . The province has administered doses at a rate of 487.11 per 1,000 . In the province , 7.43 per cent ( 327,063 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were zero new vaccines delivered to Alberta for a total of 2,355,255 doses delivered so far . The province has received enough of the vaccine to give 54 per cent of its population a single dose . The province has used 91.04 per cent of its available vaccine supply . British Columbia is reporting zero new vaccinations administered for a total of 2,393,265 doses given . The province has administered doses at a rate of 466.38 per 1,000 . In the province , 2.43 per cent ( 124,880 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were zero new vaccines delivered to British Columbia for a total of 2,740,590 doses delivered so far . The province has received enough of the vaccine to give 53 per cent of its population a single dose . The province has used 87.33 per cent of its available vaccine supply . Yukon is reporting zero new vaccinations administered for a total of 50,652 doses given . The territory has administered doses at a rate of 1,213.774 per 1,000 . In the territory , 56.73 per cent ( 23,673 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were zero new vaccines delivered to Yukon for a total of 57,020 doses delivered so far . The territory has received enough of the vaccine to give 140 per cent of its population a single dose . The territory has used 88.83 per cent of its available vaccine supply . The Northwest Territories are reporting zero new vaccinations administered for a total of 49,811 doses given . The territory has administered doses at a rate of 1,103.992 per 1,000 . In the territory , 49.87 per cent ( 22,501 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were zero new vaccines delivered to the Northwest Territories for a total of 60,000 doses delivered so far . The territory has received enough of the vaccine to give 130 per cent of its population a single dose . The territory has used 83.02 per cent of its available vaccine supply . Nunavut is reporting zero new vaccinations administered for a total of 29,305 doses given . The territory has administered doses at a rate of 756.727 per 1,000 . In the territory , 33.26 per cent ( 12,879 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were zero new vaccines delivered to Nunavut for a total of 45,100 doses delivered so far . The territory has received enough of the vaccine to give 120 per cent of its population a single dose . The territory has used 64.98 per cent of its available vaccine supply . *Notes on data : The figures are compiled by the COVID-19 Open Data Working Group based on the latest publicly available data and are subject to change . Note that some provinces report weekly , while others report same-day or figures from the previous day . Vaccine doses administered is not equivalent to the number of people inoculated as the approved vaccines require two doses per person . The vaccines are currently not being administered to children under 18 and those with certain health conditions . In some cases the number of doses administered may appear to exceed the number of doses distributed as some provinces have been drawing extra doses per vial . This report was automatically generated by The Canadian Press Digital Data Desk and was first published May 16 , 2021 . The Canadian Press <p> Procurement Minister Anita Anand tells guest host of The West Block Mike Le Couteur that conversations are happening right now about what to do with millions more doses of the AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine set to arrive over the coming months . Those arrivals come as some provinces have paused the use of the vaccine over extremely rare blood clots that can occur in some individuals after getting the shot , but as global demand for vaccines remains high and cases continue to soar around the world . " We have committed to donating excess doses , " Anand said . " Our prime minister has mentioned this , I have , and International Development Minister Karina Gould and Health Minister Patty Hajdu are all on the same page in terms of the need to donate excess doses that Canadians are n't using , so we are thinking of all of the options relating to any excess doses . " <p> A surge of coronavirus infections in Taiwan , one of the world 's COVID-19 mitigation success stories , has left it scrambling to get vaccines as its stock of 300,000 doses starts running out with only about 1% of its 23 million people vaccinated . Taiwan has been a model of how to control the pandemic since it began and life had carried on almost as normal with none of the lockdowns and overwhelmed hospitals seen elsewhere , thanks largely to effective case tracking and closed borders . While Taiwan has begun vaccinations , it has only received about 300,000 shots , all AstraZeneca Plc ones , having been caught up in the global shortage despite having 20 million on order , including from Moderna Inc . <p> DUBAI , United Arab Emirates ( AP ) -- A league of Muslim nations on Sunday demanded that Israel halt attacks killing Palestinian civilians amid heavy fighting between it and Hamas in the Gaza Strip , even as fissures between countries over their recognition of Israel emerged . A statement by the 57-nation Organization of Islamic Cooperation hewed closely to previous ones issued by the Saudi-based group , including backing the decades-old call for Palestinians to have their own nation with East Jerusalem as its capital . However , recent normalization deals between Israel and some nations in the group -- as well as their own concerns about Hamas -- saw diplomats at points instead criticize each other . " The massacre of Palestinian children today follows the purported normalization , " Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif said . " This criminal and genocidal regime has once again proven that friendly gestures only aggravate its atrocities . " The past week has seen some of the worst violence across Israel and the Palestinian territory since the 2014 war in Gaza , with militants launching missiles and Israel pounding the blockaded coastal strip home to 2 million people with heavy fire . At least 188 Palestinians have been killed in Gaza with 1,230 people wounded . Eight people in Israel have been killed . The Organization of Islamic Cooperation statement called on Israel to respect Muslims ' access to Al-Aqsa Mosque , the third-holiest site in Islam , as well as stop settlers from forcibly evicting Palestinian families from their homes . " The plight of the Palestinian people is the bleeding wound of the Islamic world today , " Afghan Foreign Minister Mohammad Haneef Atmar said . But the videoconference meeting saw some delegates instead turn their fire toward countries like Bahrain , Morocco , Sudan and the United Arab Emirates , Muslim nations which reached normalization deals last year to recognize Israel . While Egypt and Jordan earlier reached peace deals , supporters of the Palestinians criticized the new countries for recognizing Israel before the formation of an independent Palestinian state . Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu joined Zarif in criticizing the normalization , though Israel maintains diplomatic ties with Ankara . " There are a few who have lost their moral compass and voiced support for Israel , " he said . " If there are half-hearted statements within our own family , how could we criticize others ? Who will take our words seriously ? " Zarif also accused Israel of " genocide and crimes against humanity . " " Make no mistake : Israel only understand the language of resistance and the people of Palestine are fully entitled to their right to defend themselves , " Zarif said . Hamas , which seized power in Gaza in 2007 , did n't take part in the meeting , which came before consultations at the United Nations over the crisis . Across the Arabian Peninsula , reactions to the fighting similarly has been mixed . In Qatar , home to the Al-Jazeera satellite network , hundreds turned out late Saturday night to listen to a speech by Hamas ' top leader Ismail Haniyeh . Kuwait 's parliament speaker reportedly spoke with Haniyeh on Saturday , as did Qatar 's foreign minister . Meanwhile , in Bahrain and the UAE , government-linked media has n't been covering the current flare-up of violence nonstop like other networks in the region . There are murmurs of dissent though . In Bahrain , civil society groups signed a letter urging the kingdom to expel the Israeli ambassador . In the UAE , where political parties and protests are illegal , Palestinians have expressed their anger quietly , worried about losing their residency permit . Some Emiratis also have expressed concerns . " The region 's only democracy , " tweeted the Emirati writer and political analyst Sultan Sooud Al Qassemi in writing about Israel 's strike on a Gaza building that housed the offices of The Associated Press and Al-Jazeera . Hussein Ibish , a senior scholar at the Washington-based Arab Gulf States Institute , said most Gulf Arab leaders fear Hamas ' rocket fire as " cynical , dangerous , unnecessarily provocative and endangering Israelis and Palestinians in Gaza alike . " That takes the pressure off those Gulf leaders to respond , unlike in other confrontations involving the Al-Aqsa Mosque or when Israeli settlers force Arab families out of their homes , he said . " There wo n't be much sympathy for what is widely viewed in the Gulf as Israel 's heavy-handed and disproportionate retaliation , " Ibish wrote , " but it will be much easier for Gulf leaders and many citizens to regard the exchange as a tragic conflagration at the expense of ordinary people brought about by two leaderships over which they have neither control nor responsibility . " Associated Press writers Aya Batrawy and Malak Harb in Dubai , United Arab Emirates , and Bassem Mroue in Beirut contributed to this report . Jon Gambrell , The Associated Press <p> Two people are dead and a suspect is in custody following a shooting in Listuguj First Nation Saturday morning , according to Quebec 's police watchdog . Officers from the Listuguj Police Department were called to a residence on Riverside Road after reports of gunfire . They arrived around 11:30 a.m. and found a person barricaded inside , before hearing more gunshots . A 28-year-old man inside the home refused to co-operate with police , but eventually came out of the house and surrendered . Listuguj Police said Sunday morning a suspect is in custody , but did not provide details about the person 's identity . Police found two people injured inside the home . They later died of their injuries in hospital . Quebec City police confirmed Sunday a girl and man in his twenties were killed . The Listuguj Mi'gmaq Government confirmed the incident on their website Saturday evening . " On behalf of myself and Council , our hearts are with you . Our government will continue to make every effort to provide support for those in need through these difficult times , " Chief Darcy Gray said in a statement . " In the coming days , LMG will have services available to those impacted . " Gray said community members are asked to stay clear of the area as the investigation by Listuguj police and the Quebec City Police Department is ongoing . Quebec 's Bureau of Independent Investigation will also look into the circumstances of police intervention during the incident . <p> The Regional Municipality of Wood Buffalo has broken ground on a controversial park being built on land it originally acquired to be turned into an arena . The Franklin and Main Park Project will take up the majority of a block in downtown Fort McMurray . Featuring a basketball court , playground and community event space , the $4.92 million park is expected to be completed in the fall . Its completion will also mark the end of an eight-year journey that featured big civic dreams , hard economic realities and mixed emotions among downtown businesses that were affected by the municipal expropriation process . The municipality purchased the land in 2013 as part of a plan to build a downtown arena . The municipality expropriated five properties at a total cost of $34.1 million , which includes associated costs like legal fees and tearing the buildings down . The municipality backed away from the idea in 2015 , after oil prices crashed and it faced public backlash . One of the buildings acquired by the city housed Longshots , a downtown bar co-owned by Gord Pederson . When he opened the bar in 2006 , he knew there was a possibility the land would be wanted by the municipality . He said he 's not bitter about the land deal but he is bothered that the building sat empty for about 18 months . " It 's just another scar on Fort McMurray that I do n't think it deserves . " Pederson was n't against the idea of the arena , but thought the municipality had " excess and grandiose plans . " " Downtown Fort McMurray needed that little bit of a boost , " said Pederson . Since then , the land has been a parking lot . Draw for downtown ? In 2018 , council decided make downtown revitalization a priority , then in March of this year , council voted in favour of the Franklin and Main Park Project in an 8-3 vote . Mayor Don Scott and councillors Claris Voyageur and Keith McGrath were opposed . Steven Niehaus , owner of Stacs Fine Food , said he is excited about the park , as it would be across the street from his restaurant . " I know it might not be ideal for everybody , but the park is an exciting thing for us because it 's going to give a chance for people to hopefully congregate downtown , " said Niehaus . In the winter , the park will have skating trails , he said . Workers during construction should also be good for business . Jon Tupper , former president of the Chamber of Commerce , has been to half a dozen symposiums to talk about downtown revitalization . He said the municipality 's strategy for downtown in recent years has n't been successful . The park is expected to be completed in fall of 2021 . ( Jamie Malbeuf/CBC ) " We razed more structures than we 've brought up and that 's kind of where we 're at today , " he said . He said doing something with the space is better than doing nothing , but he doubts it will be an ongoing draw to bring people downtown in a municipality that already has many parks . " Yes , a park is better than a parking lot , but I do n't think it fills the gaps and the needs that the city created through their own overzealous expropriation , " he said . Pederson agrees with Tupper 's assessment . Downtown has been empty ever since expropriation , he said , and a park is n't likely to be the solution . Frances Squire , 82 , used to frequent one of the pubs that was torn down during the expropriation . She said the municipality should be spending money on more important things , like flood mitigation . " It 's a waste of money , " said Squire . <p> A Petit-Rocher , N.B. , man says a staffer at the Chaleur Regional Hospital in Bathurst reprimanded him and made him feel unwelcome after going to the emergency room in search of care . Now he wants the staffer to be held accountable for discouraging him from trying to access care for what he felt was a medical emergency . " I do n't want anybody else to go through the same thing , " said Jordan Aubie . " I do n't think that 's right at all . " Aubie works as a rotational worker just north of Fort McMurray , Alta . On April 27 , he tested positive for COVID-19 at his worksite . As per the company 's protocol , he was quarantined in a designated building on the site , where he spent five days , followed by an extra eight-day stay at an Edmonton hotel . On May 8 , he flew back to New Brunswick , where he 's been self-isolating in a friend 's trailer in Beresford . He 's awaiting results of a test he took on Friday to find out if he still has the coronavirus . Chest pain , discomfort Just days into his isolation , however , Aubie said he began to experience chest pain and discomfort . At the advice of a Tele-Care 811 nurse , he drove himself to the Chaleur Regional Hospital to get checked out . Upon arriving , he told staff he 'd recently tested positive for COVID-19 and was in self-isolation . He was put in an isolated room to wait to be seen . " Then the nurse came in , and the first thing that came out of her mouth was , ' Do n't take this the wrong way , but we do n't want you here , ' " Aubie said . " My reaction to that was kind of stunned at first . And I basically told her , I said , ' I do n't want to be here either , but I need medical attention . That 's why I 'm here . ' " Aubie said after a few hours , he was seen by a physician . As he was about to leave the hospital , Aubie said the same nurse spoke to him and told him that he was n't " supposed to be here . You 're supposed to be on quarantine . " Aubie said he told her he called 811 and they told him to go to the hospital . He said the nurse also discouraged him from seeking treatment at any other area hospital ERs . Health Department says 811 right to refer Aubie to ER Gail Harding , a spokesperson for the Department of Health , said in an email that Tele-Care 811 did the right thing by telling Aubie to seek medical attention at the nearest ER . " Anyone experiencing a medical emergency should seek medical attention by calling 911 , " she said . " Emergency rooms in the province are equipped , and have processes in place , to admit patients who are COVID-19 positive , and potentially COVID-19 positive . " Thomas Lizotte , spokesperson for Vitalit ? Health Network , said in an email it does not recommend that anyone who 's self-isolating go to the ER , unless they need to . " However , staff are trained and equipped with PPE to take care of all patients at arrival , " he said . Lizotte said Vitalit ? does n't comment on specific cases regarding patients . As the pain got worse , Aubie said he went back to the Chaleur Regional 's ER a day later , at a different time of day and encountered different staff . He said they treated him much better . <p> Two more ransomware operators appear to have disappeared from the web , a cybersecurity researcher said on Sunday , in another potential aftershock following this month 's hack of U.S. fuel transport company Colonial Pipeline . The sites , run by groups dubbed " AKO " and " Everest " , appear to have become unreachable over the weekend , according to Allan Liska , a researcher with cybersecurity firm Recorded Future . Other ransomware groups - who make money by scrambling companies ' data and demanding hefty payments in digital currency to unlock it - have said they were shutting down or scaling back operations as the U.S. government ramped up pressure . <p> China 's State Council announced new laws halting the teaching of foreign curriculum in schools from kindergarten to grade nine ( K-9 ) and prohibiting the ownership or control of any private K-9 schools by foreign entities . The laws , which will come into effect on Sept. 1 , are the latest in a series of measures taken by Beijing to tighten control of its fast-growing education sector and public discourse . China currently has private K-9 schools which teach local and foreign curriculum . <p> Calgary Pastor Tim Stephens has been arrested , after months of encouraging church congregants to break public health rules . Police said Stephens was arrested for organizing a church service on Sunday at Fairview Baptist Church in southeast Calgary , in violation of a Court of Queen 's Bench Order that requires organizers of events to comply with public health restrictions . Stephens was proactively served a copy of the court order , which was obtained by Alberta Health Services , last week . " The pastor acknowledged the injunction , but chose to move forward with today 's service , ignoring requirements for social distancing , mask wearing and reduced capacity limits for attendees , " police said in an emailed release . Police said AHS had been attempting for weeks to work with the church to address the ongoing public health concerns at the site , and that enforcement was a last resort . Congregants are seen gathered outside of the Fairview Baptist Church in southeast Calgary on Sunday , shortly before the arrest of Pastor Tim Stephens . ( Helen Pike/CBC ) " We continue to ask those who may be considering organizing or participating in any outdoor events to ensure they are familiar with public health order requirements and to do their part to prevent further spread of the virus , " police said . The church leader has previously been fined and ticketed for defying public health regulations by holding over-capacity gatherings and not enforcing mask use . Churches are currently limited to a maximum occupancy of 15 people , in order to slow the spread of COVID-19 in Alberta . The province has the highest active case rate in the country , with more than 22,000 active cases . " Restricting the church to 15 people -- which essentially restricts the church from gathering -- is against the will of Christ and against the conscience of many who desire to worship the Lord of glory according to his word , " Stephens wrote in a blog post following the updated restrictions earlier this month , added that he planned to continue to not follow safety precautions . Many Calgary churches have moved to offering online services in order to keep their congregants safe . There have been multiple outbreaks at churches around the province during the pandemic , but only one church outbreak is currently active . Stephens said in the blog post that his church has seen no coronavirus transmission . CBC News has reached out to AHS to ask if any cases have been tied to the church . Police are seen outside of Fairview Baptist Church on Sunday . ( Helen Pike/CBC ) A January inspection by Alberta Health Services at the church found only two of approximately 75 attendees were wearing masks , the pastor and church staff were unmasked and rows in the auditorium were full , with people sitting side-by-side in rows less than two metres apart . The inspection also found that there was no cleaning or disinfecting of high-touch surfaces between services . Alberta has seen increased enforcement against COVID-19 rule-breakers this month , after bringing in a new protocol to allow for a more coordinated response between police and health agencies for targeting those repeatedly not complying with health orders . ' It 's irresponsible ' Ken Lima-Coelho , who has lived in the Fairview area for his entire life , said he 's glad to see action finally being taken to see his family and fellow community members safe . " He was literally daring the authorities to do something ... it frankly became really scary , " he said . " It 's irresponsible . " Lima-Coelho said one of his neighbours is undergoing chemotherapy , which would put them at greater risk if they contract COVID-19 . " Imagine the day before you start a course of cancer treatment the thing you 're worried about is the church down the street ... in a time like this when everybody 's making sacrifices and frankly people have to make good choices , this church has shown nothing but disregard not just for their own health and the health of their congregation , but for their neighbours and the community they 've been welcomed into . " <p> One Vancouver man decided to beat his pandemic boredom by starting a new art project , where he draws ' COVID cards ' to represent the number of days it 's been since the pandemic began . David Laird is a land development planner and engineer , but in his free time he paints and draws . Laird says he 's had an interest in art ever since he was a child . When the COVID-19 pandemic forced everyone into their homes in March 2020 , Laird decided to pick up the old hobby to fill his time . " It was just purely just to , you know , amuse myself and distract myself from the world , " Laird told CBC Vancouver . Laird said he started drawing the COVID cards on the day B.C. first began lockdown last March , and has continued making them nearly every day since . Laird says every card has a number on it to represent how many days it 's been since the pandemic started . ( Ben Nelms/CBC ) " I did n't know how long I was going to do it , but , you know , COVID continued on and obviously still is . And with the help of my neighbour , I decided to go 150 days , " he said . Laird says every card has a number on it to represent how many days it 's been since the pandemic began . He says the design pictured on the front of the card changes every day , depending on his mood . In a previous interview with CBC , Michelle Winkel , an art therapist in Victoria said she believes art can help people cope with the anxiety many face from the pandemic . " Obviously with COVID , life is pretty stressful , " Winkel said , " I believe that art-making is therapeutic , " Winkel said . Winkel says she has seen first-hand through her patients , the success art therapy can bring in relieving stress and anxiety . As for Laird , he says he uses his art as a way to escape from negative news and the current reality the world continues to face . Laird says he uses his art as a way to distract himself from distressing news . ( Ben Nelms/CBC ) " These were starting to take three , sometimes four hours in the morning because I have nothing better to do . They 're completely whatever comes into my mind . " Laird said . Laird says after 150 days passed and the pandemic still was n't over , he decided to continue on with his drawings . His neighbour assisted him in making little boxes to stores the cards . He says the art has become a habit and something he 'll continue to do until the pandemic is over . " Hopefully you wo n't come back to see me in a year because we 'll all be well . " <p> Recent developments : Ottawa reported 91 new COVID-19 cases Sunday . Half of Ottawa adults 18 or older have received at least one vaccine dose , according to the city . What 's the latest ? Ottawa Public Health ( OPH ) reported 91 new COVID-19 cases Sunday . In western Quebec , 29 cases were logged . According to the City of Ottawa , 50 per cent of all Ottawa residents 18 or older have now received at least one vaccine dose . How many cases are there ? The region is coming down from a record-breaking peak of the pandemic 's third wave , one that has included more dangerous coronavirus variants . As of Sunday , 26,034 Ottawa residents have tested positive for COVID-19 . There are 1,093 known active cases , 24,406 resolved cases and 535 deaths . The transfer of COVID-19 patients from other regions to Ottawa hospitals continues . As of the most recent update Tuesday , there were 27 COVID-19 patients from other communities in Ottawa ICUs . Public health officials have reported more than 47,400 COVID-19 cases across eastern Ontario and western Quebec , including nearly 44,700 resolved cases . Elsewhere in eastern Ontario , 183 people have died . In western Quebec , the death toll is 208 . Akwesasne has had more than 680 residents test positive and 10 deaths between its northern and southern sections . Kitigan Zibi has had 34 cases . Tyendinaga Mohawk Territory has had 11 , with one death . Pikwakanagan has n't had any . CBC Ottawa is profiling those who 've died of COVID-19 . If you 'd like to share your loved one 's story , please get in touch . What can I do ? Eastern Ontario : Ontario is under a stay-at-home order until at least June 2 . People should only leave home for essential reasons like getting groceries , seeking health care and exercising in their immediate area . The vast majority of gatherings are prohibited . Exceptions include small activities with households and small religious services . Ontario has moved to online learning . Daycares remain open . Golf courses and tennis and basketball courts are among the closed recreation venues . Most non-essential businesses can only offer curbside pickup . Access to malls is restricted and big-box stores can only sell essential items . Gyms and personal care services are closed , while restaurants are only available for takeout and delivery . Police checkpoints between Ontario and Quebec are not running 24/7 . Officers in Ontario have the power to stop and question people if they believe they 've gathered illegally . Local health units and communities can also set their own rules , as Ottawa is doing around playgrounds . Western Quebec High schools , gyms , theatres , personal care services and non-essential businesses are closed in Gatineau , the Pontiac and Collines-de-l'Outaouais until Monday . Private gatherings are banned in those areas , except for a person who lives alone seeing one other household . Distanced outdoor exercise is allowed in groups up to eight people . The curfew is from 8 p.m. to 5 a.m . People stay physically distanced as they wait in line to order at food trucks set up in Parc des Cedres in Gatineau , Que. , on May 15 , 2021 . ( Marielle Guimond/Radio-Canada ) Vall ? e-de-la-Gatineau and Papineau are red zones with looser restrictions , meaning the curfew begins at 9:30 p.m. and secondary schools and non-essential businesses can reopen . The rest of the region joins them this week . People are asked to only have close contact with people they live with , be masked and distanced for all other in-person contact and only leave their immediate area for essential reasons -- under threat of a fine if they go to a yellow or green zone . Distancing and isolating The novel coronavirus primarily spreads through droplets that can hang in the air . People can be contagious without symptoms , even after getting a vaccine . Coronavirus variants of concern are more contagious and are now established . This means it is important to take precautions now and in the future like staying home while sick -- and getting help with costs if needed -- keeping hands and surfaces clean and maintaining distance from anyone you do n't live with , even with a mask on . Masks , preferably ones that fit snugly and have three layers , are mandatory in indoor public settings in Ontario and Quebec . OPH says residents should wear masks outside their homes whenever possible . Tulips bloom in an Elgin Street planter box not far from Parliament Hill in downtown Ottawa on May 14 , 2021 . ( David Richard/Radio-Canada ) People have to show proof of a recent negative COVID-19 test to enter Canada by land without a fine and have to pay for their stay in a quarantine hotel if entering by air . Anyone with COVID-19 symptoms should self-isolate , as should those who 've been ordered to do so by their public health unit . The length varies in Quebec and Ontario . Health Canada recommends older adults and people with underlying medical conditions get help with errands . Vaccines Four COVID-19 vaccines have been deemed safe and approved in Canada . Ontario and Quebec have both stopped giving first doses of the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine , but plan to give second doses . Canada 's task force said first doses offer such strong protection that people can wait up to four months to get a second . About 975,000 doses have been given out in the Ottawa-Gatineau region since mid-December , including nearly 450,000 doses to Ottawa residents and about 200,000 in western Quebec . Eastern Ontario Ontario 's general vaccination age is 40 and older . Other factors such as jobs and health conditions also qualify younger adults . People can book provincial appointments online or over the phone at 1-833-943-3900 . Appointments are available through the province for people age 18 and up in Ottawa 's three " hot spot " postal codes , Indigenous adults and , through the city , Ottawans in more than 20 " priority " neighbourhoods . A handful of Ottawa pharmacies in hot spots are offering a limited supply of Moderna vaccines to people age 18 and up . Ontario is speeding up the second dose for some groups , such as frontline health-care workers and more Indigenous people . It plans to allow everyone over age 12 to make an appointment starting the week of May 31 and expects about two-thirds of adults to have a first dose by the end of May . Local health units have some flexibility in the larger framework , so check their websites for details . Western Quebec Quebec is vaccinating everyone age 18 and older . Teens age 16 and 17 are eligible if they have certain jobs or a chronic illness or disability . The province plans to reach children as young as 12 in June . People who qualify can make an appointment online or over the phone . Symptoms and testing COVID-19 can range from a cold-like illness to a severe lung infection , with common symptoms including fever , a cough , vomiting and loss of taste or smell . Children tend to have an upset stomach and/or a rash . If you have severe symptoms , call 911 . Mental health can also be affected by the pandemic , and resources are available to help . In eastern Ontario : Anyone seeking a test should make an appointment . Check with your health unit for clinic locations and hours . Ontario recommends only getting tested if you fit certain criteria , such as having symptoms , exposure or a certain job . People without symptoms but who are part of the province 's targeted testing strategy can make an appointment at select pharmacies . Travellers who need a test have very few local options to pay for one . In western Quebec : Tests are strongly recommended for people with symptoms and their contacts . People can make an appointment and check wait times online . Call 1-877-644-4545 with questions , including if walk-in testing is available nearby . First Nations , Inuit and M ? t is : First Nations , Inuit and M ? t is people , or someone travelling to work in a remote Indigenous community , are eligible for a test in Ontario . Akwesasne has a COVID-19 test site by appointment only and a curfew of 11 p.m. to 5 a.m . Anyone returning to the community on the Canadian side of the international border who 's been farther than 160 kilometres away -- or visited Montreal -- for non-essential reasons is asked to self-isolate for 14 days . People in Pikwakanagan can book a COVID-19 test by calling 613-625-1175 . Anyone in Tyendinaga who 's interested in a test can call 613-967-3603 and in Kitigan Zibi , 819-449-5593 . Tyendinaga 's council is asking people not to travel there to camp or fish . Inuit in Ottawa can call the Akausivik Inuit Family Health Team at 613-740-0999 for service , including testing and vaccines , in Inuktitut or English on weekdays . For more information <p> SALEM , Ore . ( AP ) -- The first court test of whether local governments can ban police from enforcing certain gun laws is playing out in a rural Oregon county , one of a wave of U.S. counties declaring itself a Second Amendment sanctuary . The measure that voters in the logging area of Columbia County narrowly approved last year forbids local officials from enforcing most federal and state gun laws and could impose thousands of dollars in fines on those who try . Second Amendment sanctuary resolutions have been adopted by some 1,200 local governments in states around the U.S. , including Virginia , Colorado , New Mexico , Kansas , Illinois and Florida , according to Shawn Fields , an assistant professor of law at Campbell University who tracks them . Many are symbolic , but some , like in Columbia County , carry legal force . The movement took off around 2018 , as states considered stricter gun laws in the wake of mass shootings , including a high school shooting near Parkland , Florida , that killed 17 people and made survivors into high-profile gun control activists . After President Joe Biden took office , conservative lawmakers in several states proposed banning police from enforcing federal gun measures , and at least one proposal in Arizona has been signed into law . The movement has n't yet faced a major legal challenge . The Oregon case was filed by Columbia County under an unusual provision in state law that allows a judge to examine a measure before it goes into effect . No timeline has been set for a court hearing . " This will allow the court to tell us whether the county can actually decline to enforce certain state laws , and it will tell us how to abide by the will of the voters to the extent that we can , " said Sarah Hanson , who serves as counsel in the conservative-leaning county in deep-blue Oregon . Supporters of the ordinance include the Oregon Firearms Federation , which said in a November statement that " extremists " and " big city radicals " were trying to curtail gun rights . The group referenced Portland protests opposing police brutality that occasionally turned violent last summer and called the ordinance a " common sense " step that would " ensure your right and ability to defend your life and the lives of your loved ones . " The ordinance would ban the enforcement of laws like background check requirements and restrictions on carrying a gun , though it would have exceptions for others , including keeping firearms from convicted felons . The Oregon Firearms Federation did n't respond to a request for comment on the court case . Sheriff Brian Pixley has expressed support , saying in a March statement that one of his responsibilities is to uphold people 's Second Amendment rights and that he 's eager to " move forward with the will of the voters . " The measure is divisive locally , though , and four residents filed court documents opposing it . One , Brandee Dudzic , referenced the strict gun safety drills she learned in military medic training , saying she values the right to own a gun but believes it should come with safety measures like background checks and secure storage . A gun shop owner in Columbia County said he supports background checks and believes that " state law trumps the county law . " But he voted in favor of the Second Amendment measure on principle . " We need to make sure that people are safe . We need to make sure that people are responsible , " he said . " But as more rules are in place , we just need to make sure that we 're not overregulated . " He spoke on the condition he not be identified because some of his customers take a hard line against gun restrictions and he did n't want to lose their business . The group Everytown for Gun Safety is pushing for the measure to be overturned . Managing director Eric Tirschwell said it would be the nation 's first court test of a Second Amendment sanctuary law . Everytown argues that the ordinance violates the U.S. Constitution , which says federal law supersedes state law , as well as the state Constitution and an Oregon law that gives the state power to regulate firearms . The decision wo n't have a direct effect outside Oregon but could send a message . " This case is important and should send the message that where state or local jurisdictions attempt to unconstitutionally or unlawfully nullify gun safety laws , we are prepared to and will go to court , " Tirschwell said . Other laws trying to blunt the effect of federal gun restrictions have n't fared well in court , including a 2009 Montana measure that made guns and ammunition manufactured in the state exempt from federal law and a similar 2013 measure in Kansas . Many of the latest wave of measures , though , take a different tack by focusing on the actions of local police , including punishments like fines . In terms of federal law , gun rights advocates may have a successful legal argument under the so-called anti-commandeering doctrine , which says the U.S. government ca n't make state and local officials enforce federal law , said Darrell Miller , a professor of law at Duke Law School and co-faculty director of the Duke Center for Firearms Law . He agreed that the Oregon case is the first of its kind . Local enforcement of state law , meanwhile , is another matter . Most states do n't have similar provisions in their own legal codes , and Oregon 's attorney general said in court documents that the Columbia County ordinance is " incompatible " with criminal law and the duties of county officials . " To the extent the local government is trying to say , ' We 're also not going to enforce state law either ' .... that 's a much more difficult and complicated position , " Miller said . " The authority of the state over localities is much , much stronger . " Whitehurst reported from Salt Lake City . Lindsay Whitehurst And Andrew Selsky , The Associated Press <p> Some Islanders have been booking COVID-19 vaccine appointments through a bot on Twitter , but few seem to know who is behind the mysterious service . P.E.I. reported one new case of COVID-19 on Saturday , a close contact of a previous case connected to a Charlottetown daycare . The new case is an individual in their 20s . People between the ages of 20-39 have accounted for about 60 per cent of P.E.I. ' s overall number of cases . Some veterans on P.E.I. say holding a protest -- any protest -- in front of a cenotaph dishonours the veterans who fought to give them that very freedom . Masked-up shoppers browse items at the flea market at the Charlottetown seaport . The flea market runs Sundays from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m . ( Shane Ross/CBC ) The province announced it would be extending border restrictions for another two weeks on seasonal residents , family connections and for some moving to P.E.I. An Island woman who was recently escorted out of a store by police is asking Islanders to be more understanding of people like her who ca n't wear masks . Charlottetown restaurants have started gearing up for patio season and many see patios as a solution to their COVID-19 problems . P.E.I. continued to be a leader among the provinces in population growth during the pandemic , but not at the pace it was previously . P.E.I. has 10 active cases of COVID-19 . There have been 191 positive cases in total over the past 14 months , with two hospitalizations and no deaths . Elsewhere in the Atlantic region : Also in the news These Islanders are currently eligible for a vaccine People over 16 . Islanders over 40 can book an appointment for a Moderna vaccine at a pharmacy . You can find more information about how to get a vaccine here . Further resources Reminder about symptoms The symptoms of COVID-19 can include : Fever . Cough or worsening of a previous cough . Possible loss of taste and/or smell . Sore throat . New or worsening fatigue . Headache . Shortness of breath . Runny nose . More from CBC P.E.I. <p> Author Elesa Willies has a real-life mystery she hopes you can help solve . Willies recently discovered an old photo of a young girl while volunteering at the United Church thrift store in Grande Cache , 435 kilometres northwest of Edmonton . " I was going to throw something in the garbage bin and this picture was sitting right on top of everything else , " she said . " I said ' Who chucked this away ? ' " Willies was told the store does n't keep old photos like that . Who would want to buy it ? " I said , ' Well , I 'll take it , ' because I 've always loved history and I 've loved mysteries , " she said . " It 's a beautiful picture , it 's done in 1924 of this little girl and so I took it . " Elesa Willies holds the portrait she rescued from the garbage at a Grande Cache thrift store . ( Submitted by Elesa Willies ) The 66-year-old Willies quickly went from volunteer to detective . " I was just curious , I wanted to find out who this little girl was , and what the connection was , and how it ended up in our thrift shop , because we 're stuck in the middle of nowhere . " What we can sort of guesstimate is the little girl is probably about two in the photograph and that was 1924 , so if she 's still alive , which I highly doubt , she 'd be like 99 or 100 years old now . " Thinking the girl in the photograph might have descendants who would like the photo , Willies began investigating further . The signature , location and date that appears on the photo . ( Submitted by Elesa Willies ) The signature on the portrait was difficult to read , but it also appeared to have the word Breton , which happens to be the name of a village about 100 km southwest of Edmonton . Willies got in contact with the village and its museum . " The curator of the museum there actually phoned me and said his wife thinks that it says Boston , not Breton , and she then had correctly identified who the photographer was , " Willies said . " We managed to narrow down that it was Emile Brunel . " That led WIllies to a project called Friends of Brunel Park , located on the grounds of Brunel 's former home in the Catskills of southeastern New York state . The non-profit organization collects the artist and photographer 's work and is open to the public . The owner confirmed the portrait was taken by Brunel but had no information on who the little girl was or how the photo wound up in Alberta . Brunel owned dozens of photography studios throughout the eastern U.S. , including Boston . He became quite famous for his work , and was recruited to take pictures of Hollywood stars . It 's safe to assume whoever commissioned the photo would have been quite well off . Beyond that , not much else is known . Willies has shared the photo on social media in hopes someone might have some answers . As an added bonus , Willies , who authored " Footsteps and Whispers -- The Series ' ' about Grande Cache ghost stories and strange encounters , may have some new material to work with for a mystery . The only question is , will it be solved ? 
@@52738594 <p> DUBAI , United Arab Emirates ( AP ) -- As violence flares within Israel and on a day in which Israeli airstrikes on Gaza City killed at least 42 people , it was business as usual for a senior Israeli tourism official in Dubai as she promoted the country as a must-see destination for Muslim visitors . It might seem an odd proposition at an odd time given that major airlines have suspended flights to Israel amid the flare-up in violence and while the spread of coronavirus remains a threat . But at Dubai 's Arabian Travel Market on Sunday , billed as the first travel and tourism event to happen in person since the global coronavirus outbreak , a small Israeli booth -- tucked behind Slovenia 's -- marketed the country as the " Land of Creation . " Promotional videos advertised Israel 's vegan culinary scene , its beaches and urged : " Book Your Trip Now " to Tel Aviv . And the devastating airstrikes on Gaza leading the world 's television news ? " We were not talking about it . We are talking about the future . We are talking about what we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ksenia Kobiakov , director of new markets development at the Israeli Tourism Ministry . The presence of Israel at the travel and tourism event in Dubai highlights the United Arab Emirates ' business-first approach and demonstrates how rapidly ties with Israel have developed since the UAE and Israel signed an accord to formalize ties in September . It also signals how even the most brutal conflicts between Israel and the Palestinians are no longer viewed by some Gulf Arab leaders through a prism of Muslim or Arab solidarity , but as part of a wider calculation in a region gripped by multiple threats . Israel 's tourism minister was scheduled to attend a panel at the conference on Gulf-Israeli tourism , but the panel was quietly renamed and her visit to Dubai did not transpire . Israeli tourism officials say the minister 's visit was never approved by the prime minister and the cancellation had nothing to do with the current fighting . The first plane of Israeli tourists to the UAE landed in November . Since then , the UAE has welcomed tens of thousands of Israelis to its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dubai . Kobiakov said the hope is that Emirati citizens and foreign residents of the UAE will visit Israel in return and help its tourism sector rebound when the country is open again to tourists . " We came here to show Israel as a new destination for the UAE and Gulf countries , as a very colorful , exciting destination that is open , " Kobiakov said . In all her discussions with tour operators , airlines and others in Dubai on Sunday , the focus was on tourism and not politics , she said . There was no discussion of the current flare-up in violence in Israel and the Palestinian territories . A plan to open visa-free travel between the two countries was delayed due to Israeli quarantine rules . The UAE and Israel , which have had some of the world 's most successful vaccination drives against the coronavirus , are on track to sign the visa-exemption agreement July 1 , Kobiakov said . The current round of violence could impact Israel 's plans to lure back tourists , particularly its effort to appeal to Emirati and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these countries . Violence around the Al-Aqsa mosque in east Jerusalem drew rare rebuke of Israel by both countries , which signed accords recognizing Israel last year . At least 188 Palestinians have been killed in Gaza , including 55 children and 33 women , with 1,230 people wounded since long-simmering tensions erupted on Monday . Eight people in Israel have been killed , including a 5-year-old boy and a soldier . Violence has also roiled across Israeli cities between Jews and the country 's Palestinian Arab citizens , as well as in the occupied West Bank . In its airstrikes , Israel has leveled a number of Gaza City 's tallest office and residential buildings , alleging they contain Hamas military infrastructure . Among them was the building housing The Associated Press office and those of other media outlets . The UAE 's foreign minister stopped short of directly criticizing Israel in the most recent statement issued Friday . Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed instead called " on all parties to take immediate steps to commit to a ceasefire , initiate a political dialogue , and exercise maximum restraint . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Kobiakov 's schedule of back-to-back meetings affirmed the long-view approach to bilateral ties the UAE and Israel have taken . " People do n't feel safe to travel now to Israel . It 's understandable . But this escalation , it will finish one day , " she said . " We know that all the conflicts are coming and they are going . Tourism is staying forever , " she added . Aya Batrawy , The Associated Press <p> COMPANY ANNOUNCEMENT No. 81/2021 Tvis , 17 May 2021 Transactions in connection with share buy-back programme As mentioned in announcement no. 77/2021 , TCM Group A/S ( " TCM Group " or " the Company " ) has initiated a share buy-back programme which will run from 26 April 2021 until 11 March 2022 . During this period , the Company will buy own shares for up to a maximum of DKK 100 million under the programme . The share buyback has been set up and structured in accordance with the safe harbour rules in art . 5 of the Market Abuse Regulation and the European Commission Regulation 1052/2016 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ executed during the period 10 - 12 May 2021 : DateNo. of sharesAverage price ( DKK ) Total value ( DKK ) Accumulated , last announcement41,000 6,902,39010 May 20214,000168.94675,76011 May 20215,000166.40832,00012 May **33;1080;TOOLONG 2,346,010Accumulated under the programme55,000 9,248,400 Following these transactions , TCM Group A/S holds 340,714 shares as treasury shares , corresponding to 3.4 percent of the Company 's total share capital . An overview showing the transaction data for the period 10 - 12 May 2021 is enclosed . For further information please contact:Torben Paulin , CEO , TCM Group A/S , +45 21 21 04 64 About TCM Group TCM Group is Scandinavia 's third largest manufacturer of kitchens and furniture for bathrooms and storage . The products are Danish design , produced in Denmark and rooted in a proud tradition of good quality and good craftsmanship . TCM Group pursues a multi-brand strategy , under which the main brand is Svane K ? kkenet and the other brands are Tvis K ? kkener , Nettoline and kitchn . Combined , the brands cater for the entire price spectrum , and are sold through c. 140 dealers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ addition , TCM Group sells private label kitchens through DIY stores in Denmark and independent kitchen stores in Norway . See www.tcmgroup.dk for more information . Attachments 81 . Transactions in connection with share buy-back programme 81. appendix specification from 10.05.21-12.05.2021 
@@52738850 <h> Israel closes Gaza crossing after rockets fired <p> The Israel government said on Monday that it has closed the Erez Crossing , the only pedestrian passage between the Gaza Strip and the Jewish state , after rockets were fired from the coastal enclave . <p> Militants in Gaza fired three rockets towards southern Israel early Monday morning , one of which was intercepted by the country anti-rocket Iron Dome system , and it was not immediately clear where the other two fell , according to a military statement . <p> No damage or injuries were reported , reports Xinhua news agency . <p> In response , Israel 's Coordinator of the Government Activities in the Territories Ghassan Alian announced that the Erez Crossing was shut down " until a further notice " and that only " exceptional humanitarian cases " would be allowed to pass . <p> Alian said that the measure was a response to the rockets and incendiary balloons from Gaza over the past days , which were " a violation of Israeli sovereignty " . <p> The move came a day after Israel closed the fishing zone offshore the besieged Palestinian enclave . <p> The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ <p> Gaza has been under a crippling Israeli and Egyptian blockade since 2007 . <p> Tensions were soaring between Israel and Palestinians in the Gaza Strip , West Bank , and East Jerusalem . <p> Hundreds of Palestinians have been injured and at least one was killed in clashes with Israeli security forces . <p> The clashes were sparked by Israeli restrictions during the holy Muslim month of Ramadan and the planned eviction of Palestinians from their homes in East Jerusalem . 
@@52738951 <p> On Wednesday afternoon , May 12 , at the very end of question period , New Democratic Party Leader Jagmeet Singh gingerly put the Israel-Palestine question on the Canadian political agenda . <p> Singh echoed a resolution his party passed at its recent convention . He called on the Canadian government to stop selling weapons to Israel . <p> The NDP leader referred to the threatened expulsion of Palestinian families from the East Jerusalem neighbourhood of Sheikh Jarrah , where they have lived for more than seven decades , and Israel 's blocking of access to the Al-Aqsa Mosque in Jerusalem 's Old City . <p> He characterized those actions as " violations of human rights and international laws . " <p> " Instead of taking action to stop or deal with the long-standing illegal occupation , " Singh told the House , " the prime minister is effectively supporting the status quo ... By arming one side of the conflict , it is undermining the peace process ... " <p> The prime minister answered by repeating the usual , carefully balanced Canadian position . <p> " We call on all parties to end the violence , de-escalate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Justin Trudeau said . <p> The prime minister noted that the Palestinian organization Hamas has launched a series of rocket attacks against Israel -- which he described as " unacceptable " -- and underscored Canada 's longstanding support for " Israel 's right to assure its own security . " <p> But Trudeau then added : " Violence at Al-Aqsa is also unacceptable . Places of worship are for people to gather peacefully and should never be sites of violence . " And without specifically mentioning Sheikh Jarrah , Trudeau pushed back at Israel in a way his predecessor Stephen Harper would never have done : <p> " We are also gravely concerned by continued expansion of settlements and evictions . " <p> Trudeau 's bottom line , like that of the U.S. and other Western governments , was that " Canada supports the two-state solution and we urge all parties to renew their commitment to peace and security . " <h> Israel started this fight <p> The inciting incident for this whirlwind of bloodshed was , in the words of Bradley Burston , a columnist for the Israeli newspaper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ replace Palestinian residents of East Jerusalem 's Sheikh Jarrah neighbourhood . " <p> The Israeli extremist group pushing to evict Arab families from the East Jerusalem neighourhood is called Lahav Shomron . It went to court asking for the expulsion under an arcane Israeli law which awards ownership of land in occupied Palestine to Jews who can prove they occupied it prior to 1948 . That was the year the United Nations created Israel by partitioning the territory which now comprises Israel , Jordan , the West Bank and Gaza . <p> Last November , a similar group , Ateret Cohanim , succeeded in getting a court-ordered eviction of over 80 Palestinians from Jerusalem 's Silwan neighbourhood . There are now possible expulsion orders for at least 35 other Jerusalem Arab families . <p> Mainstream Israelis claim these are only banal " real estate disputes , " not efforts to ethnically cleanse Palestinians from Jerusalem . <p> Forty per cent of the residents of present-day Jerusalem are Arabs , most living in East Jerusalem , which Israel occupied in 1967 during the Six-Day War . Arabs do not have the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1948 . <p> Israeli political leaders are near-unanimous in declaring they will never give up an inch of Jerusalem territory . On the other side , many Palestinians hope East Jerusalem will become their capital , as part of a comprehensive peace treaty . <p> Current Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his right-wing political allies have quietly , and sometimes openly , supported efforts to move Arabs out of Jerusalem . <p> Former Israeli cabinet minister Naftali Bennett -- who now wants Netanyahu replaced because of his own thwarted political ambitions -- has long advocated Israel should out-and-out annex significant parts of the West Bank and permanently maintain what remains as an Israel protectorate . <p> He is not alone . <p> Other politicians on Israel 's right share different versions of the same view . <p> As for Netanyahu , he has been at best lukewarm about the peace process , on which Western leaders still place so much store . During the recent series of elections in Israel few political leaders -- be they of the right , left or centre -- even mentioned the Palestinians or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peaceful resistance to the latest attempted expulsion of Arabs from their homes in East Jerusalem has forced the Palestinian question onto centre stage , both for Israel and for its friends and allies , including Canada . <h> Lynchings , burnings , and chants of ' death to Arabs ' <p> Right now , extremists have taken control of events in Israel . <p> On Wednesday , May 12 , the Jerusalem Post reported that far-right radicals in the Tel Aviv suburb of Bat Yam " marched down main streets , smashing Arab-owned businesses and attacking passersby . " <p> The marchers chanted " death to Arabs " and " may your village burn . " Then they grabbed a man on a motorcycle they believed was an Arab and beat him on live television . <p> The Israeli radicals did not stop at attacking Arabs . In the Post 's words , they " lynched " a Jewish man they believed was an Arab . He is now in hospital with serious , but not life-threatening injuries . <p> In some places , they set vehicles on fire and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have focused their attention on cities which have mixed Arab and Jewish populations , among them Tiberias and Lod . <p> The latter city became a centre of violence when some Arabs , provoked by the Sheikh Jarrah affair , burned a synagogue there . <p> There have been Arab demonstrations in the streets , some of which have turned violent . Meanwhile , from its base in Gaza , Hamas continues to attack Israeli targets with rockets . Israel 's Iron Dome defence has stopped most of those missiles , but some did get through . They killed a handful of people , including at least one child . <p> The Israeli military response , in the form of air attacks on Gaza , has been fierce and relentless , and it has wrought a far greater toll than the Hamas rockets : at least 56 Palestinians dead , including 14 children . <p> Israeli officials say they have only attacked military targets . Even Israel 's friends have difficulty accepting that claim . <p> When New Democrats passed their resolution on " justice and peace in Israel and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " boycott " of Israel -- which , they said , could open the party to accusations of antisemitism . <p> NDPers did not , of course , propose anything resembling a boycott . Indeed , that fact might disappoint many who support the Palestinian cause in Canada . <p> The NDP motion was , in fact , quite mild . It called for the ban on military sales to Israel that Jagmeet Singh reiterated on Wednesday . And it also proposed Canada not trade with Israeli businesses that operate from " illegal settlements " on the West Bank . <p> Those in the West who seek blind , unqualified and uncritical support for Israel have hidden behind the smokescreen of a quite legitimate concern about antisemitism . Virtually any criticism of Israel , they have argued , constitutes an attack on all Jews , and is , perforce , antisemitic . <p> Today , the government of Israel 's behaviour is doing more to dissipate that smokescreen than anything groups who favour solidarity with Palestine might do or say . <p> When the cycle of violence is so clearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Israel 's insouciant disregard for the basic rights of ordinary people , who just want to quietly carry on their lives in peace -- it is hard to maintain the complacent " both sides are wrong " view . <p> That notional even-handedness has been the default position of Canadian governments for many decades . The sole exception was the Harper government which tilted hard toward Israel . <p> Today , in light of all that is happening in Israel and Palestine , if Jagmeet Singh were to continue pressing the government on this issue he might find , perhaps to his surprise , that a majority of Canadians agree with him . <p> Karl Nerenberg has been a journalist and filmmaker for more than 25 years . Heis rabble 's politics reporter . <p> More people are reading rabble.ca than ever and unlike many news organizations , we have never put up a paywall -- at rabble we 've always believed in making our reporting and analysis free to all , while striving to make it sustainable as well . Media is n't free to produce . rabble 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spend on photocopying ( we kid you not ! ) and we do not have any major foundation , sponsor or angel investor . Our main supporters are people and organizations -- like you . This is why we need your help . You are what keep us sustainable . <p> rabble.ca has staked its existence on you . We live or die on community support -- your support ! We get hundreds of thousands of visitors and we believe in them . We believe in you . We believe people will put in what they can for the greater good . We call that sustainable . <p> So what is the easy answer for us ? Depend on a community of visitors who care passionately about media that amplifies the voices of people struggling for change and justice . It really is that simple . When the people who visit rabble care enough to contribute a bit then it works for everyone . <p> And so we 're asking you if you could make a donation , right now , to help us carry forward on our mission . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 
@@52741315 <h> Trevor Story <h> Latest Stories <p> An accusation made public earlier this month alleging Dennis Oland assaulted his wife in a Toronto hotel room in June 2018 may not be enough on its own to push police to re-examine the incident or put Oland in any new legal trouble , according to experts . And they say had the incident become public in 2018 , it probably would not have affected the outcome of Oland 's second murder trial . " It might be enough to start an investigation , " Osgoode Hall law professor Lisa Dufraimont said about the domestic assault allegation . " Certainly not to lay a charge on the basis of what they have so far . " Toronto criminal defence lawyer Shayan Shaffie , who specializes in domestic assault cases , doubts the accusation by Oland 's estranged wife Lisa Andrik-Oland will even be looked into by authorities based on the limited new description of what is alleged to have happened . " I would n't hold my breath on the police initiating a renewed investigation in respect of a three-year-old matter , " said Shaffie . " It 's not impossible , but I think that it 's not likely . " Lisa Dufraimont , who teaches at York University 's Osgoode Hall law school , says violent acts in one case by an individual generally can not be used against that person in a trial about an unrelated matter . ( ) A handwritten description On May 3 , the New Brunswick Court of Queen 's Bench unsealed details of an emergency intervention order applied for by Lisa Andrik-Oland in June 2020 to keep Dennis Oland from entering their then home . The two had been separated several months by then . In a section of the application asking for details of intimate partner violence to justify the application , Andrik-Oland briefly detailed two incidents over 15 months where she said Oland had assaulted her , including once in Toronto in June 2018 . In a four-line handwritten description of what happened , she said Oland used his belt during a " physical altercation " to tie her hands behind her back in a hotel room . The incident was just four months before Oland was scheduled to stand trial a second time for the 2011 murder of his father , Richard Oland . According to Andrik-Oland 's account , it was tumultuous and alarming enough to cause people in the room next to theirs to call police . " There was a physical altercation , " she wrote . " Dennis at the time was going to begin his second trial so I told police everything was OK . " Lisa Andrik-Oland 's handwritten account of what she says were two physical assaults by Dennis Oland may not be enough to trigger new police investigations . ( CBC ) Police wo n't confirm Police in Toronto will not explicitly confirm it dealt with the couple but do say officers were involved in a call of that type during the same weekend Andrik-Oland cited in her statement . " From the details you have provided I have found an incident from June 9 ( 2018 ) , " Connie Osborne , the manager of media relations for the Toronto Police Service , wrote in response to a request seeking information about it . Andrik-Oland listed the incident as happening on Friday , June 8 , but Osborne said police records show they were called well past midnight , at 4:53 a.m. , on Saturday , June 9 , to a " property " in the upscale neighbourhood of Avenue Road and Bloor Street West . " They checked inside the property and spoke separately to a man and a woman to carry out inquiries and check the well-being of both individuals , " Osborne wrote of officers who responded to the call " Neither party made any allegations of criminality . " There are three hotels in that specific area , which is adjacent to the Royal Ontario Museum and sandwiched in between the affluent Yorkville shopping district and the University of Toronto campus . The Hazleton , the Yorkville Royal Sonesta and Windsor Arms are each nearby , but Osborne says it is not police practice to release specific locations of where incidents occur " unless it is a homicide investigation or has a public safety element . " Toronto police will not confirm they responded to a domestic abuse call involving Dennis Oland at a city hotel in 2018 but do say officers were involved in a call of a similar type and at a similar time as described by Lisa Andrik-Oland . ( Evan Mitsui/CBC ) Shaffie said although he doubts police will revisit the case based on the scarcity of information provided in the new accusation , he does think had police been told by Andrik-Oland that night that she had been tied up and confined , the consequences would have been serious . Police answering intimate partner violence calls are expected to use specific " mandatory charging " rules that do not apply in other assault cases . Those require the laying of a criminal charge by officers if there are reasonable grounds to believe abuse has occurred , with nothing else required . " And that 's irrespective of the gravity of the offence and it 's irrespective of the wishes of the complainant , " said Shaffie . " I think it 's fair to say that had the police shown up in June of 2018 , and a claim like the one that 's included in this application was made at the time , the police certainly would have engaged in an investigation at that point . " They would have separated the parties , they would have questioned them . And if they felt at the conclusion of their investigation that they had reasonable grounds to believe that a domestic assault had occurred or a forcible confinement , they would have certainly made an arrest at that time . " Shayan Shaffie is a criminal defence lawyer in Toronto who specializes in domestic abuse cases . He believes Dennis Oland could have been charged in 2018 if new allegations made by Lisa Andrik-Oland about being assaulted by him in a Toronto hotel had been expressed to police at the time . ( Submitted ) An arrest in the heart of Toronto so close to the start of Oland 's second murder trial would likely have triggered intense media coverage but it would not necessarily have changed anything about the trial itself . Previous violence ca n't be considered Dufraimont , who specializes in criminal law , procedure and evidence , said that with rare exceptions , an accused 's presumption of innocence in a trial involving violence forbids the consideration of other unrelated violent events , including assaults . " Rules about bad character are very complicated , but one of the rules is that the Crown ca n't rely on someone 's violent character to prove that the person is likely to have committed a violent offence , " she said . Dennis Oland had been under intense legal and public scrutiny since the brutally violent murder of his father in July 2011 . Family and friends and Oland himself insisted publicly he did not possess the temperament for the hacking and bludgeoning attack suffered by his father , and over the years there were efforts to convey that view to the court and the public . Sixty-six people submitted character reference letters on Oland 's behalf following his first trial , including one from his mother , Connie , depicting him as a " gentle " and " caring " person . Oland himself maintained he was not capable of erupting in uncontrollable anger . " I 'm not that kind of monster . I 'd never do that to my dad or any person , " Oland testified during the second trial about the murder . That 's part of what made Andrik-Oland 's account of being assaulted by especially jarring and why legal experts say it would have been out of bounds to be used in a murder trial if it had been known at the time . " Courts are very careful when it comes to that kind of evidence , because it can lead to a miscarriage of justice , " said University of Calgary law professor Lisa Silver , who teaches courses on crime and evidence . " It can lead to convictions that are n't based on the evidence before the court , but just based on a bad feeling about the accused . " Lisa Silver teaches criminal law at the University of Calgary . Had accusations Dennis Oland assaulted his wife surfaced publicly prior to his second murder trial she believes it would not have changed the outcome . ( Mike Spenrath CBC ) What did or did not happen in a Toronto hotel in 2018 sheds no factual light on what happened in Richard Oland 's office in 2011 , and Silver and Dufraimont both said a properly run murder trial would have sealed off any consideration of the hotel incident had it been public . An allegation by Andrik-Oland of a second assault in New Brunswick in September 2019 occurred after Oland 's acquittal and unlike the incident in Toronto did not involve police being called . It is also unclear which police force would have jurisdiction to investigate the matter since the accusation specifies only that it happened on an island in the St. John and Kennebecasis river system but not which one . Some islands are inside Saint John city limits and would be in the jurisdiction of Saint John police , and some are in the local service district of Westfield , which is the responsibility of the RCMP . Shaiffe does not see any movement being made by police unless a more formal complaint is made . " They could call her , they could say , ' Ma'am , we 've had this brought to our attention , and we 'd like to give you an opportunity to tell us what happened . ' " I would n't count on that . I think it 's more unlikely than it is likely . " . Dennis Oland has declined to comment on the allegations through his lawyer . <p> BEIJING ( Reuters ) -China will tread carefully in relaxing its birth policies for fear of harming social stability , even as the latest census highlights the urgency to address the country 's declining birth trends and ageing population , policy sources said . Expectations for birth policy reforms are rising after the 2020 census last week showed China 's population grew at its slowest in the last decade since the 1950s as births declined and ageing accelerated . A fertility rate of 1.3 children per woman in 2020 , on par with ageing societies like Japan and Italy , underscores the risk for China : the world 's second-biggest economy may already be in irreversible population decline without having first accumulated the household wealth of G7 nations . <p> OTTAWA ( Reuters ) -Canadian home sales , prices and starts all fell in April compared with the previous month , as some of the frenzy of recent months began to unwind , though activity remains strong , data showed on Monday . Canadian home sales fell 12.5% in April from March , while the average selling price was down 2.9% in April from the previous month , according to data from the Canadian Real Estate Association ( CREA ) . Housing starts , meanwhile , fell 19.8% in April compared with March on a sharp decline in multiple urban starts , though starts remain well above pre-pandemic levels , separate data from the Canadian Mortgage and Housing Corporation ( CMHC ) showed . <p> Calgary police have released surveillance images of a suspect after several people were robbed on the street by an armed man in the downtown core last week . Police say nine robberies or attempted robberies happened from May 10 to May 12 in the core , mostly on the LRT platforms or along Eighth Avenue S.W. One incident happened in the Beltline near 12th Avenue and 11th Street S.W. " In each instance , a man approaches a female victim , shows a knife and then robs the victim of cash , their wallet or their purse , " police said in a release . The culprit has been described as being in his early 20s , five foot six to five foot seven with a slim build and distinctive light blue to grey eyes . He was wearing dark clothing with his face and head covered during the robberies . Anyone with information is asked to call police at 403-266-1234 or contact Crime Stoppers . <p> The latest numbers of confirmed COVID-19 cases in Canada as of 8:30 p.m . ET on Monday May 17 , 2021 . There are 1,334,104 confirmed cases in Canada . Canada : 1,334,104 confirmed cases ( 67,639 active , 1,241,482 resolved , 24,983 deaths ) . *The total case count includes 13 confirmed cases among repatriated travellers . There were 4,586 new cases Monday . The rate of active cases is 177.97 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 39,905 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 5,701 . There were 35 new reported deaths Monday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of 301 new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is 43 . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.11 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 65.74 per 100,000 people . There have been 33,592,273 tests completed . Newfoundland and Labrador : 1,203 confirmed cases ( 97 active , 1,100 resolved , six deaths ) . There were 10 new cases Monday . The rate of active cases is 18.58 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 62 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is nine . There have been no deaths reported over the past week . The overall death rate is 1.15 per 100,000 people . There have been 256,309 tests completed . Prince Edward Island : 192 confirmed cases ( nine active , 183 resolved , zero deaths ) . There was one new case Monday . The rate of active cases is 5.64 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there has been five new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is one . There have been no deaths reported over the past week . The overall death rate is zero per 100,000 people . There have been 154,580 tests completed . Nova Scotia : 4,827 confirmed cases ( 1,434 active , 3,320 resolved , 73 deaths ) . There were 91 new cases Monday . The rate of active cases is 146.42 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 793 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 113 . There was one new reported death Monday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of two new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is zero . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.03 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 7.45 per 100,000 people . There have been 725,813 tests completed . New Brunswick : 2,073 confirmed cases ( 119 active , 1,913 resolved , 41 deaths ) . There were 10 new cases Monday . The rate of active cases is 15.23 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 60 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is nine . There have been no deaths reported over the past week . The overall death rate is 5.25 per 100,000 people . There have been 323,946 tests completed . Quebec : 363,847 confirmed cases ( 7,011 active , 345,794 resolved , 11,042 deaths ) . There were 551 new cases Monday . The rate of active cases is 81.77 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 5,051 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 722 . There were eight new reported deaths Monday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of 49 new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is seven . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.08 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 128.78 per 100,000 people . There have been 8,862,183 tests completed . Ontario : 511,486 confirmed cases ( 25,869 active , 477,128 resolved , 8,489 deaths ) . There were 2,170 new cases Monday . The rate of active cases is 175.57 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 16,467 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 2,352 . There were four new reported deaths Monday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of 162 new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is 23 . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.16 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 57.61 per 100,000 people . There have been 14,619,412 tests completed . Manitoba : 45,579 confirmed cases ( 4,568 active , 40,000 resolved , 1,011 deaths ) . There were 430 new cases Monday . The rate of active cases is 331.19 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 3,129 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 447 . There was one new reported death Monday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of 14 new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is two . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.15 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 73.3 per 100,000 people . There have been 747,968 tests completed . Saskatchewan : 44,709 confirmed cases ( 1,965 active , 42,225 resolved , 519 deaths ) . There were 178 new cases Monday . The rate of active cases is 166.71 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 1,414 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 202 . There were two new reported deaths Monday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of 17 new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is two . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.21 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 44.03 per 100,000 people . There have been 820,209 tests completed . Alberta : 219,682 confirmed cases ( 21,288 active , 196,246 resolved , 2,148 deaths ) . There were 721 new cases Monday . The rate of active cases is 481.42 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 9,295 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 1,328 . There were five new reported deaths Monday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of 31 new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is four . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.1 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 48.58 per 100,000 people . There have been 4,404,789 tests completed . British Columbia : 139,664 confirmed cases ( 5,175 active , 132,841 resolved , 1,648 deaths ) . There were 424 new cases Monday . The rate of active cases is 100.53 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 3,556 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 508 . There were 14 new reported deaths Monday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of 26 new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is four . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.07 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 32.01 per 100,000 people . There have been 2,631,197 tests completed . Yukon : 84 confirmed cases ( one active , 81 resolved , two deaths ) . There were zero new cases Monday . The rate of active cases is 2.38 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of two new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is zero . There have been no deaths reported over the past week . The overall death rate is 4.76 per 100,000 people . There have been 9,129 tests completed . Northwest Territories : 121 confirmed cases ( 38 active , 83 resolved , zero deaths ) . There were zero new cases Monday . The rate of active cases is 84.14 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 19 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is three . There have been no deaths reported over the past week . The overall death rate is zero per 100,000 people . There have been 22,405 tests completed . Nunavut : 624 confirmed cases ( 65 active , 555 resolved , four deaths ) . There were zero new cases Monday . The rate of active cases is 165.17 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 52 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is seven . There have been no deaths reported over the past week . The overall death rate is 10.16 per 100,000 people . There have been 14,257 tests completed . This report was automatically generated by The Canadian Press Digital Data Desk and was first published May 17 , 2021 . The Canadian Press <p> A controversial Quebec singer who used his platform to share conspiracy theories about COVID-19 and HIV/AIDS , has died . Bernard Lachance , originally from Montmagny , Quebec , garnered fame for his ambitious pursuit of performing . He would rent out theatres with his own money and sell his CD and tickets to his concerts on the streets , regardless of not having any representation . <p> A Saskatchewan man who brutally attacked a woman and set her on fire has been denied parole . Leslie Black , 35 , pleaded guilty to attempted murder in the beating , burning and sexual assault of Marlene Bird in Prince Albert , Sask. , in 2014 . Bird 's injuries resulted in the amputation of both of her legs and the Indigenous woman also lost much of her eyesight . She died in 2017 at the age of 50 from heart , liver and kidney failure . Her death was only a few months after Black was sentenced to 16 years for the vicious assault . He was given credit of four years , eight months for time already served , so faced just over 11 years in prison . " Your actions were unpredictable , brutal and indifferent , " said a decision released Monday by the Parole Board of Canada . Black told a parole board hearing last week that the attack on Bird happened around the anniversary of his own mother 's murder and he 'd been drinking more frequently . He did n't know Bird and told the board the sexual assault was " out of the blue . " After setting Bird 's shirt on fire , Black left the woman in flames and went to a store to get candy . He walked past Bird again , who was still on fire , and ignored her . Bird was found several hours later with burns so severe her facial bones were exposed . Black told the hearing that the decision to light Bird on fire " just happened " because he had a lighter in his coat pocket . He told the parole board that he prayed with an elder for Bird and her family when he learned of her death . The board 's decision said Black still shows " limited insight into the underlying factors that allowed ( him ) to engage in this level of violence . " Black has continued to have issues with violence behind bars , including fights with other inmates and weapons found in his cell , the board said . " Your inability to follow institutional rules raises concerns for the board about your ability and willingness to abide by conditions in the community . " Psychological assessments presented at the hearing said Black presents a risk for future sexual offences and suggested any form of conditional release would be premature . After Black was sentenced , Bird , a member of the Montreal Lake Cree Nation , said she thought she " could forgive him " but friends said she was upset by the length of his incarceration . " I 'm doing my best , because my mom told me to forgive people that do wrong , " Bird said at the time . This report by The Canadian Press was first published May 17 , 2021 . Kelly Geraldine Malone , The Canadian Press <p> Schooling Under Stress : CBC News sent a questionnaire to thousands of education professionals to find out how they and their students are doing in this extraordinary school year . Nearly 9,500 educators responded . A pandemic-marred school year is entering its final weeks and for many B.C. teachers the question now is how it will impact students , academically and psychologically . According to responses to CBC News 's Schooling Under Stress questionnaire from over 1,500 B.C. educators , including 1,100 classroom teachers , the long-term effects on students are a major concern and teachers badly want help so the pandemic does not limit their students ' futures . " Student needs are ever-increasing . There are more students displaying signs of trauma , " wrote one B.C. respondent . " I feel overwhelmed and I do not see things improving for next year . " Questionnaire sent to Surrey , Nanaimo , Kelowna CBC sent the questionnaire to 52,351 email addresses of school workers in eight provinces , across nearly 200 school districts . Email addresses were scraped from school websites that publicly listed them . The questionnaire was sent using SurveyMonkey . CBC chose provinces and school districts based on interest by regional CBC bureaus and availability of email addresses . As such , this questionnaire is not a representative survey of educators in Canada . None of the questions were mandatory , and not all respondents answered all of the questions . Almost three-quarters of B.C. respondents to the questionnaire -- sent to educators in the Surrey , Nanaimo and Kelowna school districts -- somewhat or strongly agreed that with the pandemic school year experience in mind , some students will not catch up academically . About half said fewer students are meeting learning objectives . Half said their students were a bit behind schedule and one-quarter said their students were far behind schedule . Nine out of 10 agreed that the challenges of the pandemic year would have a psychological impact on some students . " Worried for my students ' well-being , learning and progress , " another respondent wrote . " I am doing my best and it is just hard seeing students stressed , their potential hampered with this pandemic , and joy limited . " CBC spoke to several respondent teachers who said that while some students may be permanently affected by the pandemic , most will overcome it . They want more support for students and teachers so fewer slip through the cracks . ' Academics and mental health are hugely connected ' At Peace Arch Elementary School in Surrey , French immersion teacher Rachael Froese said academic problems were apparent back in September . Most kids had been away from in-person school for about five months and skills like oral French were especially poor . " We really had to work on that , especially at the beginning of the year , " Froese said . Most students were able to catch up but stress and anxiety , especially those from less stable homes , was common . " Academics and mental health are hugely connected , " she said . Teacher Rachael Froese said the individual situations of kids -- especially the stability of their home lives -- has influenced how successful they 've been during this school year . ( Maggie MacPherson/CBC ) " They need to feel safe . They need to feel secure . They need to feel respected . They need to feel loved ... if they 're too busy trying to work out how to get those needs met they 're not really able to be present in class . " North Surrey social studies teacher Mark Bomba said his focus , more than other years , has been preparing his high school students for university . That and the demands of a sometimes-online , sometimes-in-person school year has meant students have had to mature quickly . " We 've seen some amazing students who are ... resilient , " he said . " But it 's also exacerbated a lot of problems . " Teacher Mark Bomba said his biggest concern is for students in grades 10 and 11 , who are preparing for university . ( Maggie MacPherson/CBC ) One of those problems is that he 's not seeing some students in person . Over two-thirds of CBC 's questionnaire respondents agreed that some students have stopped coming to class entirely , which may lead to learning gaps going forward , especially for post-secondary ambitions . " Some students you just do n't hear from and nothing gets handed in , " Bomba said . Christina Smith , who teaches English and social studies online at Lord Tweedsmuir secondary , is also concerned about becoming disconnected from her students , especially because it 's been more difficult to see who is struggling with their mental health . " A lot of students that I have talked to are feeling overwhelmed with concerns about their family , concerns about their health , concerns about their learning , " Smith said . Teacher Christina Smith , who teaches English and social studies online at Lord Tweedsmuir Secondary in Surrey , B.C. , is concerned students will suffer poorer learning outcomes following the stress of the pandemic . ( Submitted by Christina Smith ) " They 're really struggling to be able to manage a load that is , quite honestly , very difficult for adults to manage right now and that I think is going to have long term effects . " She 's concerned that for some students , a poorer school experience now could lead to fewer opportunities later in life , less desire to pursue life-long learning and create less engaged citizens . Minister evaluating needs Froese , Bomba and Smith were optimistic most students would overcome this year 's challenges but some -- likely those already at-risk -- might not . The teachers want more support : counsellors to help students ' mental health ; support teachers to work with them on the gaps in their learning ; and training and professional development for teachers . Education Minister Jennifer Whiteside said she is looking at what gaps have emerged or become more pronounced during the pandemic . Education Minister Jennifer Whiteside said keeping schools open during the pandemic has been important for young peoples ' mental health . ( Belle Puri/CBC ) " There were pre-existing needs before COVID and we know that those needs will be likely increased as we try to return to a more normal state in September , " Whiteside said . " We 're certainly looking at what those needs are . " Discussions are ongoing for what summer programs and September will look like , she said . She highlighted $56 million in spending from the latest provincial budget for child and youth mental health teams . Smith believes with more help for at-risk students , more will rise above this challenging year . " It 's not going to destroy a generation of children , " she said . " Students are really resilient and teachers really care about them . " CBC Vancouver 's Impact Team investigates and reports on stories that impact people in their local community and strives to hold individuals , institutions and organizations to account . If you have a story for us , email impact@cbc.ca . If you 're experiencing suicidal thoughts or having a mental health crisis , there is help out there : In Quebec ( French ) : Association Qu ? b ? coise de pr ? vention du suicide : 1-866-APPELLE ( 1-866-277-3553 ) Canadian Association for Suicide Prevention : Find a 24-hour crisis centre <p> On Monday , Ontario 's associate chief medical officer of health Dr. Barbara Yaffe reported the province faced a total of 14 total cases of blood clotting due to the AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine , 10 of which are vaccine-induced thrombotic thrombocytopenia ( VITT ) . Ontario recently put a pause on administering the first dose of the AstraZeneca vaccine due to the extremely rare blood clotting disorder , but will offer second doses to those who want one . <p> Vancouver police have released the names and photos of six known gangsters they believe pose a significant risk to residents as the Lower Mainland gang war continues to claim victims and play out during the daytime in busy public places . Vancouver police Chief Const . Adam Palmer said the men are being identified because , according to police intelligence , they are the most likely next targets of rival gangs and a danger to anyone who happens to be nearby . " I want to make it clear that today 's announcement is not about naming and shaming , " he said on Monday . " We are providing these photos and names so Vancouverites can know them and take steps to ensure their own safety and safety of friends and family . " The Lower Mainland has recorded 20 gang-related homicides in 2021 and 20 gang-related attempted murders . In the past three weeks alone , seven men tied to gangs have been shot dead in public settings that include Vancouver International Airport , a recreation centre , a community park , a mall parking lot and outside shops and restaurants . The men identified by the VPD are Garinder Deo , 35 ; Harjit Deo , 38 ; Barinder Dhaliwal , 38 ; Meninder Dhaliwal , 28 ; Ekene Anigbo , 22 ; and Damion Ryan , 41. 2015 murder attempt Ryan , a full-patch member of the Hells Angels , was the target of a wild 2015 murder attempt at the Vancouver airport food court , carried out by a teen disguised in a black burka . Would-be killer Knowah Ferguson was from Ontario , had no previous criminal record and was promised $200,000 for the hit . WATCH Surveillance video shows failed assassination of Hells Angels member : Security video played at his trial shows a burka-clad Ferguson walking up to Ryan and putting a gun to his head . The gun jams and both men flee . The 18-year-old was later sentenced to seven years in prison for attempted murder and four years for conspiracy . Palmer said neither Ryan nor the other five men identified on Monday are currently wanted by police . He said releasing their names is in the interest of public safety , similar to when police release the name and photo of a sex offender who has moved into the community . " The six not only pose a risk to friends , family and acquaintances , but also to people who do n't even know them every time they go to the gym , go shopping , to the grocery store , to a restaurant or a bar , when bars are open . " Palmer said he expects other police agencies to follow Vancouver 's lead and release more names and photos of gang members in their jurisdictions . He said the VPD is deploying a suite of overt and covert operations in an attempt to tamp down the violence and that officers would be seizing gang members ' cars , homes and other valuables gained through crime . RCMP officers stand near a body covered with a tarp in the parking lot of a shopping complex in Burnaby , B.C. , on May 13 . Police later said the victim , Jaskeert Kalkat , was connected to gangs and targeted . ( Darryl Dyck/The Canadian Press ) A new department task force that was recently formed to react quickly to gang activity stopped a retaliation shooting last week , according to Vancouver police Supt. Lisa Byrne . Two men were arrested in a stolen car loaded with gas canisters . One of the individuals was a youth , the other had a loaded firearm . Deputy Chief Howard Chow said citizens should report any suspicious cars they notice to police . " We know gang members park stolen cars in neighbourhoods in advance of targeted hits that they later use as getaway vehicles that we find later burned , " he said . Metro Vancouver Crime Stoppers announced Monday that it is reviving its gang violence awareness campaign . ( CBC ) Earlier Monday , Metro Vancouver Crime Stoppers announced it is reviving a gang violence awareness campaign thanks to new funding . The campaign encourages people with information on gangs and illegal guns to report anonymously . " If you see something , say something , " said Crime Stoppers executive director Linda Annis . " We only want your information so we can pass it on to police . We do not want to know who you are . " The widow of Paul Bennett , who was killed in 2018 in what police believe was a case of mistaken identity , said she is pleased the Crime Stopper guns and gang campaign is coming back . " Every arrest , every gun seized means a threat to an innocent life will be reduced , " Darlene Bennett said . " Next month marks three years since Paul 's life was so senselessly taken . Our lives will never be the same . " <p> New Brunswick Public Health reported 11 new cases of COVID-19 on Monday , five of them in the Fredericton region , which is also battling a growing " cluster " of cases at the Delta hotel , a new confirmed case at New Maryland Elementary School , a third confirmed case at Leo Hayes High School , an outbreak at the hospital , and has several new possible exposure warnings . Ten more cases of COVID-19 have been identified at the Delta Fredericton since Friday , said Department of Health spokesperson Bruce Macfarlane . That pushes the total number of cases linked to the former designated quarantine hotel to 25 , including at least one employee . Public Health is n't calling it an outbreak , but rather a " cluster . " The Delta is no longer part of the designated quaratine hotel program , Chief Medical Officer of Health Dr. Jennifer Russell confirmed last week . Macfarlane did not respond to questions about whether an employee , isolating guest or regular guest has been identified as the index case . But he did confirm there were previous positive cases at the hotel when he clarified numbers released last week . On Friday , Macfarlane said there were five " direct " cases and 10 cases that were " direct contacts of previously confirmed cases . " On Monday , when asked whether the 10 cases referred to people in the community who were contacts of previously confirmed cases at the hotel , or people at the hotel who were contacts of previously confirmed cases in the community , he replied : " We mean people in the community who are contacts of either those five at the hotel or previous cases at the hotel . " Macfarlane could not say how many employees the Delta has . The Delta has not responded to a request for comment . Employees who worked at the hotel or its restaurant , STMR.36 BBQ &amp; Social , from May 6 to 12 or from April 26 to May 2 have been " strongly encouraged " to get tested and abide by work isolation until Thursday . If they choose not to get tested , they 're required to isolate for 14 days after the date of the last potential exposure in the workplace . Whether the employees get tested or not , members of their household are required to self-isolate for 14 days . " Although it is not an outbreak , Public Health has put in processes at the Delta Fredericton similar to those used by the PROMT ( Provincial Rapid Outbreak Management Team ) in a long-term care facility outbreak to facilitate risk management processes and testing , " Macfarlane said last week . He did not say how many of the 25 cases involve the highly contagious variant first reported in India , which is circulating in the region . 118 active cases The province now has 118 active cases . The breakdown of the 11 new cases reported Monday is as follows : Saint John region , Zone 2 , three new cases : A person 19 or under . Two people 50-59 . Two of these are contacts of previously confirmed cases and the other is travel-related . Fredericton region , Zone 3 , five new cases : Two people 19 or under . Two people 40-49 . A person 50-59 . All of these cases are contacts of previously confirmed cases . Edmundston region , Zone 4 , two new cases : Two people 50-59 . Both cases are under investigation . Bathurst region , Zone 6 : one new case : A person 30-39 . This case is travel-related and the individual is isolating out of province . The 11 new cases of COVID-19 announced Monday and the revised case count put the province 's total active cases at 118 . ( CBC ) Six patients are hospitalized in New Brunswick , including two in an intensive care unit . Another four patients are hospitalized out of province , with one in an intensive care unit . New Brunswick has had 2,073 confirmed cases of COVID-19 since the pandemic began , with 1,913 recoveries and 41 COVID-related deaths . A total 315,114 COVID tests have been conducted , including 1,126 on Sunday . As of Monday , 324,056 New Brunswickers have received at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine . That 's 46.7 per cent of the eligible population . Confirmed case at New Maryland Elementary School A positive case of COVID-19 has been confirmed at New Maryland Elementary School , David McTimoney , superintendent of the Anglophone West School district , said in a letter to families Monday night . The letter said Public Health officials will contact people if their child has been identified as a close contact of a confirmed case , in which case the child and all household members will be asked to self-isolate for 14 days . If a child was potentially exposed due to a " common environment exposure , " such as using the same restroom or hallways , then the child and all houshold members will be asked to self-isolate for 72 hours and self-monitor for 14 days . Tuesday will be an operational day , with no instruction , to allow for continued contact tracing and cleaning of the school , said McTimoney . Students will transition to online learning from home on Wednesday at 10 a.m. , which will continue Thursday , when the situation will be reassessed and an update provided , he said . 3rd case of COVID-19 confirmed at Leo Hayes High School A third case of COVID-19 has been confirmed at Leo Hayes High School in Fredericton over the weekend . Two cases of COVID-19 were detected last week , forcing the local high school to close . " Public Health has also confirmed that at this time , there is NO in-school transmission at Leo Hayes High School , " McTimoney said in a letter to families on Sunday . New Brunswick Public Health has confirmed a third case of COVID-19 at Leo Hayes High School in Fredericton over the weekend . ( CBC ) McTimoney said Monday is a planned non-instructional day as per the school calendar . Students will be learning from home on Tuesday , Wednesday and Thursday . " We will reassess the situation on Thursday and provide you with an update on continued learning at that time , " McTimoney said . The high schools is working with Public Health officials to identify any students and school personnel who may have been in contact with the case , he said . Those people will be asked to self-isolate . Horizon staffing ' a concern ' Forty Horizon Health Network employees in the Fredericton area are off work Monday because the COVID-19 outbreak at the Dr. Everett Chalmers Regional Hospital , Stan Cassidy Centre for Rehabilitation and Veterans Health Unit . That 's down from 42 Sunday and 49 on Saturday . But " staffing remains a concern , " the regional health authority said in a news release . The outbreak was declared Thursday after an employee of the Chalmers hospital tested positive for a COVID-19 variant of concern . Geri Geldart , vice-president of clinical services , previously confirmed the employee is a health-care worker . An unknown number of Horizon employees and patients may have been exposed to the Chalmers health-care worker who tested positive for a COVID variant of concern last week . ( Joe McDonald/CBC ) As of Monday , there are two COVID-19 patients in hospital and one COVID patient in ICU , Horizon said . Overall " occupancy rates are high , and only urgent services will be provided at this time , " the statement said . The occupancy rate at the Chalmers hospital is 95 per cent . The occupancy rates at the other hospitals in Zone 3 are also high : Oromocto Public Hospital : 98 per cent . Upper River Valley Hospital : 121 per cent . Latest public exposures Public Health has identified a potential public exposure to the coronavirus at the following locations and dates in the Fredericton region : Fredericton : Montana 's , 6 Trinity Ave. , on May 2 , between 4 p.m. and 8 p.m . Wolastoq Wharf , 527 Union St. , on May 9 , between noon and 2:30 p.m . McDonald 's Restaurant , 1177 Prospect St. , on May 14 , between 4:30 and 5:30 p.m . Harvey : Kubbyhole Craft Shop , 1879 Route 3 , on May 7 , between 1 p.m. and 9 p.m . Nackawic : Cal 's Independent Grocer , 135 Otis Dr. , on May 14 , between 5:30 p.m. and 6:30 p.m . Public Health has identified a potential public exposure to the virus at the following location and date in Edmundston : Jean Coutu , 177 Victoria St. , on May 15 , between noon and 1 p.m . Public Health has also identified a positive case in a traveller who may have been infectious while on the following flights : Air Canada Flight 314 -- from Vancouver to Montreal , departed at 11:24 p.m. on May 11 . Air Canada Flight 8902 -- from Montreal to Moncton , departed at 1:06 p.m. on May 12 . No update on Magee House Isolation for " a handful " of the people at Magee House residence at the University of New Brunswick Fredericton campus was expected to end Sunday . But neither Department of Health nor UNB officials responded to a request for an update Monday . UNB did not post any update on its website or through social media either . The outbreak at the 101-unit apartment-style residence was declared on April 27 , after six cases were confirmed . Residents told CBC News they were notified about the first positive case on April 22 . At least 13 cases have since been linked to the outbreak that involves the highly contagious COVID variant first recorded in India . Magee House in Fredericton is a UNB residence with 101 apartment-style units for mature students , some of whom may have children . ( Ed Hunter/CBC ) Officials did not respond to a request for an update on the ventilation system Monday either . Chief Medical Officer of Health Dr. Jennifer Russell previously said a Public Health inspector and UNB engineers found " there was a teeny tiny chance that there could have been some cross-contamination with one particular component " of the ventilation system . " So that was shut off April 27 . And they wo n't be turning it back on until we give the go-ahead . " About 180 people live in the building , which is designed for mature students , some of whom have families . Public Health officials believe surfaces in the elevator were the source of transmission in the outbreak . The faculty of the departments of history and classics had requested a rent break for the isolating students at Magee House and some students at the Elizabeth Parr-Johnston residence , who also had to isolate up until May 5 at 11:59 p.m . " The students who can not work will lose a portion of their income , " the letter to UNB president Paul Mazerolle states . " In addition , students might not be able to meet their monthly budgets because they must now rely exclusively on ordering necessities online , and thus have additional expenses with delivery charges and less control over buying lower cost items . " UNB spokesperson Heather Campbell has not responded to requests for comment on whether the rent break was approved . Vaccine appointments today The Horizon Health Network has vaccination appointments available today in the Sussex and Fredericton areas . It posted on social media encouraging people aged 30 or older who are eligible to book an appointment . Appointments can be booked online . Walk-in appointments are not available . Revised case count Public Health has revised the number of confirmed cases of COVID-19 reported in New Brunswick . A case previously reported in the Bathurst region , Zone 6 , had already been accounted for in another province , according to a news release . Due to confidentiality provisions , the province where the case was previously recorded will not be identified , Public Health said . Previous public exposures Public Health has identified a public exposure in Fredericton . Hilton Garden Inn Hotel and the Pickle Jar Restaurant , 620 Queen St. , from May 11 to May 16 . The province has also listed another flight with a passenger who has tested positive for COVID-19 on May 7 . Air Canada Flight 318 -- from Calgary to Montreal , departed at 11 a.m . Public Health is offering COVID-19 testing to anyone who has been in a public exposure area , even it they 're not experiencing any symptoms . Residents may request a test online or call Tele-Care 811 to book an appointment . Other exposure notifications Public Health has identified a positive case in a traveller who may have been infectious on May 6 while on the following flights : Air Canada Flight 396 -- from Edmonton to Toronto , departed at 6:50 a.m . Air Canada Flight 8898 -- from Toronto to Moncton , departed at 8:43 p.m . Public Health has identified a positive case in a traveller who may have been infectious on May 10 while on the following flight . Air Canada Flight 8946 from Toronto to Moncton , departed at 8:47 p.m . Public Health has identified a potential public exposure to the coronavirus at the following locations and dates in the following regions : Moncton region : Pumphouse , 5 Orange Ln. , Moncton , on May 4 between 8 and 10 p.m . Staples , 233 Main St. , Moncton , on May 5 , between noon and 8 p.m . Walmart Supercentre , 477 Paul St. , Dieppe , on May 6 , between 7 and 10 p.m . Greco Pizza , 311 Acadie Blvd. , Dieppe , on May 7 , between 11 a.m. and 11 p.m . Greco Pizza , 120 Killam Dr. , Moncton , on May 5 , between 5 p.m. and 1 a.m. , May 3 , between 5 p.m. and 1 a.m. , and May 2 , between 5 p.m. and 1 a.m . Greco Pizza , 311 Acadie Blvd. , Dieppe , on May 4 , between 4 p.m. and 11 p.m . Dr. Georges-L. -Dumont University Hospital Centre emergency department , 330 Universit ? Ave. , Moncton , on May 7 , between 2-9:30 p.m. , and May 6 , between 2 p.m. and 4 p.m . Saint John region : Foodland , 1 Market Sq. , Quispamsis , on May 3 , between 4 p.m. and 5 p.m . Circle K , 309 River Valley Dr. , Grand Bay-Westfield , between 11:30 p.m. on Friday , May 7 , and 1 a.m. on Saturday , May 8 . Fredericton region : My Home Consignment , 5 Acorn St. , Fredericton -- May 8 between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. , May 7 between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. , May 6 between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. , and May 5 between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m . Sobeys , 1180 Prospect St. , Fredericton , -- May 8 between 4 p.m. and 5:30 p.m . Lunar Rogue , 625 King Ave. , Fredericton -- April 28 between 5:30 p.m. and 8:30 p.m . Fix Auto , 156 Greenview Dr. , Hanwell -- May 6 between 7:30 a.m. and 5:30 p.m. , April 30 between 7:30 a.m. and 5 p.m. , April 29 between 7:30 a.m. and 5:30 p.m. , and April 28 between 7:30 a.m. and 5:30 p.m . Lunar Rogue , 625 King St. , Fredericton , on April 28 , between 5:30 and 8:30 p.m . Fix Auto , 156 Greenview Dr. , Hanwell , on May 6 , between 7:30 a.m. and 5:30 p.m. , April 30 , between 7:30 a.m. and 5 p.m. , April 29 , between 7:30 a.m. and 5:30 p.m. and April 28 , between 7:30 a.m. and 5:30 p.m . McDonald 's Restaurant , 1177 Prospect St. , on May 5 , at 12:30 p.m. and 1:30 p.m . McDonald 's Restaurant in Walmart , 125 Two Nations Crossing , on May 6 , from 1 p.m. to 2 p.m . Brainfix Clinic , 56 Avonlea Crt. , on May 6 . Adica Massage Clinic , 152 King St. , on May 6 . Williams Chiropractic , 169 Main St. , on May 6 . Simms Home Hardware Building Centre , 190 King St. , on May 6 . Costco Gas Bar , 5 Wayne Squibb Blvd. , on May 6 . Massage Experts , 169 Dundonald St. , on May 6 , from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. and on May 7 , from 10:15 a.m. to 11:30 a.m . Delta Fredericton , 225 Woodstock Rd. , on May 6-12 . STMR. 36 Restaurant -- Delta Fredericton , 225 Woodstock Rd. , on May 6-12 . Jack 's Pizza , 379 King St. , on May 7 , at 1 p.m . Mitch Clarke Skate Park , 116 Johnston Ave. , on May 7 , from 2 p.m. to 9 p.m . Garrison Skatepark , York Street parking lot , on May 7 , from 9 p.m. to 11 p.m . James Joyce Pub , 659 Queen St. , on May 7 , from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m . McDonald 's Restaurant , 94 Main St. , on May 7 , from 5 p.m. to 11 p.m. and May 8 , from 11:45 a.m. to 1:30 p.m . Princess Auto , 21 Trinity Ave. , on May 8 , from 8 a.m. to noon . Fredericton Public Library , 12 Carleton St. , on May 8 , from 10 a.m. to noon . Northside Market , 170 Main St. , on May 9 , from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m . Irving Oil , 181 King St. , on May 9 , from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m . Dollarama , 5 Trinity Dr. , on May 9 , from noon to 2 p.m . NB Liquor , 18 Trinity Dr. , on May 9 , from noon to 5 p.m . Home Sense , 18 Trinity Dr. , on May 9 , from noon to 5 p.m . Tim Hortons drive-thru , Regent Street , on May 10 , at 1:30 p.m . Atlantic Superstore , 471 Smythe St , on May 10 , from 12:30 p.m. to 1:30 p.m. and May 11 , from 10 a.m. to noon . Dr. Everett Chalmers Regional Hospital , 700 Priestman St. , on May 10-11 . Stan Cassidy Centre for Rehabilitation , 800 Priestman St. , on May 10-11 . Veterans Health Unit , 680 Priestman St. , on May 10-11 . Shoppers Drug Mart , 1040 Prospect St. , on May 11 , from 9 a.m. to 10 a.m . Scott 's Nursery , 2192 Route 102 , on May 8 , from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m . What to do if you have a symptom People concerned they might have COVID-19 symptoms can take a self-assessment test online . Public Health says symptoms shown by people with COVID-19 have included : Fever above 38 C. New cough or worsening chronic cough . Sore throat . Runny nose . Headache . New onset of fatigue , muscle pain , diarrhea , loss of sense of taste or smell . Difficulty breathing . In children , symptoms have also included purple markings on the fingers and toes . People with one of those symptoms should : Stay at home . Call Tele-Care 811 or their doctor . Describe symptoms and travel history . Follow instructions . <p> As the United States searches for a path back to the 2015 Iran nuclear deal , it is tiptoeing through a minefield laid by former U.S. President Donald Trump . The mines are Iran-related sanctions Trump imposed on more than 700 entities and people , according to a Reuters tally of U.S. Treasury actions , after he abandoned the nuclear deal and restored all the sanctions it had removed . Among these , Trump blacklisted about two dozen institutions vital to Iran 's economy , including its central bank and national oil company , using U.S. laws designed to punish foreign actors for supporting terrorism or weapons proliferation . <p> In March 2020 , Minakshi thought her journey to Canadian citizenship was coming to a close , as Immigration , Refugees and Citizenship Canada set a date for her test . Then the world changed before her eyes on March 11 , exactly a week before her scheduled citizenship exam , as the World Health Organization declared COVID-19 a pandemic . The IRCC cancelled all tests , including hers , except for what it called a few " urgent " exams , held virtually . " We understood , we tried to co-operate , " Minakshi said . But several months passed before the department resumed tests , shifting them online at the end of November . Testing backlog grew during pandemic Data obtained by CBC News shows Minakshi is one of hundreds of thousands of people stuck in a waiting pattern . In a series of internal IRCC emails , employees acknowledge that the backlog of those permanent residents who are ready to take a citizenship test grew from 87,000 people in March 2020 to 102,000 by the start of this year . The information also shows there were 311,259 people waiting to go through the entire application process for citizenship at the end of January . Of those , 102,989 had been waiting between 13 and 18 months -- and 865 for more than four years . " One hundred and two thousand applicants , that 's just like the size of a mid-sized city in Canada , " said Ahsan Umar , the head of an ad-hoc advocacy group , Advocates for Citizenship Test . The group lodged the access to information request that revealed the figures and the internal department emails . " We all understand reasonable delays because of this whole situation we are in , " Umar said . " But when it gets to lack of transparency and unreasonable delays , that instils a lot of deep sorrow in itself . " The cost of waiting For Minakshi , who came to Canada 10 years ago and lives in London , Ont. , it also compounded job-seeking issues . She has only a first name , not uncommon for the part of India where she 's from . She would like to start a career in real estate in Canada and obtain a surname . But to legally do that , she would first need to pass her citizenship test . Since 2018 , she estimates she 's paid up to $600 to renew her permanent resident card and an Indian passport -- and to get her fingerprints scanned three times to help with the IRCC 's criminal background check , which must be periodically redone as a citizenship application is being processed . Although she started her Canadian citizenship application in 2018 , Minakshi said she has yet to receive a new test invitation , and she does n't understand why it 's her responsibility to pay for new scans , since her actions have n't caused the delay .. " Every morning , you know , instead of doing my regular work , I 'm checking my phone . Everyday , have I got the email yet ? Do I need to prepare for my citizenship test ? " Ben Mansoura was among the 5,000 applicants to receive an online citizenship test invitation by the end of 2020 . He had to submit an access to information request to find out he passed . ( Mark Bochsler/CBC ) Toronto resident Ben Mansoura , another permanent resident , managed to be among the first 5,000 candidates to receive an invitation to take an online test in December . But the senior IT manager had to file an access to information request about himself just to find out he passed . He 's still waiting on criminal background and language eligibility results , with no indication of when those might arrive . " The agents on the phone would almost be like : ' Why are you calling us ? ' " Mansoura said , whenever he called the IRCC to get updated information . For some permanent residents who thought they were close to becoming Canadian citizens , the prospect of further delays raises the possibility they may be unable to vote in the next federal election , expected later this year . ( Tijana Martin/The Canadian Press ) In 2019 , he did n't have the right to vote in the federal election , and he 's worried he may still be unable to cast a ballot in the next election , expected later this year , if delays continue indefinitely . " I do want to take part in the betterment of this country , " said Mansoura , who arrived in Canada in 2012 from the Czech Republic . " I feel unwelcome here , I feel like I 'm not being treated equally . " More digital tests coming ' very soon ' : minister Some of the internal IRCC emails in the 353-page document obtained by Ahsan Umar 's group date back from before the online test launch , with employees settling on what one referred to as an " aggressive plan " to begin the pilot project with 5,000 test invitations by the end of 2020 . Immigration Minister Marco Mendicino was unavailable for an interview on the subject , but at a recent news conference , he asked those still waiting to " keep the faith . " " More digital testing and citizenship ceremonies are coming to you very soon , " he said . Immigration MInister Marco Mendicino , shown at a news conference last June , asks those still waiting for an online citizenship test invitation to ' keep the faith . ' ( Sean Kilpatrick/The Canadian Press ) In a followup statement to CBC News , the IRCC said it had sent out 65,893 online test invitations by the end of April , and 43,697 people had completed their citizenship tests . " Immigration officers have had to scramble for this last year as well , " said Raj Sharma , a Calgary-based immigration lawyer . Glimpsing at the numbers obtained by CBC News , he said he had expected the backlog to be worse due to the pandemic . But Sharma said there was no explanation for the large number of people waiting for such a long time . " It appears to be clear there were delays on some applications well before this pandemic , well before the excuse of this pandemic , " he said . WATCH Essential workers , graduates to get new pathway to permanent residency : " It does look like there 's some promising signs of spring ahead , " Sharma said , referring to the online testing process flowing more smoothly now . But it is little comfort for Minakshi : " If I get the fourth fingerprint request next year , I 'm going to withdraw my file , " she said . <p> While the typical approach for COVID-19 vaccinations is using the same brand for each dose , given at specific intervals , Canada has been exploring mixing doses on top of delaying second shots up to four months -- two big bets that could pay off . Before vaccine shipments started ramping up , Canada 's National Advisory Committee on Immunization ( NACI ) issued a bold recommendation to delay second doses well beyond manufacturing guidelines to a maximum of four months . The move sparked criticism that Canada was engaged in a " population level experiment , " with concerns ranging from a lack of data , to a growing body of research suggesting it 's not the safest approach for immunocompromised and older adults . Layered on that controversial move are more recent shifts toward mixing doses -- including offering up an mRNA-based option , from Pfizer-BioNTech or Moderna , to some Canadians who have already gotten a first shot of AstraZeneca-Oxford . According to multiple vaccine experts , these moves may seem unorthodox on the surface , but are rooted in decades of science , backed up by emerging research , and could be preventing COVID-19 deaths at a time when Canada has been struggling to bring in enough vaccines from abroad . " I think having the single dose strategy , which was put forth by our Canadian public health agencies , has really saved a lot of lives and has been really instrumental and will be important for us getting back to a more normal life , " said Alyson Kelvin , a vaccinologist with VIDO-InterVac , a vaccine development company in Saskatoon . Mixing doses could also wind up being a useful approach in the months ahead , according to Dr. Christopher Labos , a Montreal-based cardiologist and epidemiologist . " Especially because we want people to get their second doses , " he said . " And if supply issues continue to be a problem , we do n't want to be pushing second doses back waiting for vaccine supply to come our way . " Healthcare workers with Humber River Hospital administer doses of the Moderna COVID-19 vaccine at a temporary clinic for member 's of Toronto 's Spanish-speaking community at the Glen Long Community Centre on May 14 , 2021 . ( Evan Mitsui/CBC ) Delaying doses can lead to ' better ' immune response When it comes to Canada 's unique approach to delaying doses , vaccine experts stressed that while it strayed significantly from the shorter schedule of the clinical trials , it falls in line with the broader body of vaccine science . Typically giving a bit more time between a first vaccine dose and the second vaccine dose " really leads to a better overall immune response , and protection from whatever pathogen the vaccine was made against , " noted Kelvin . The exact guidelines for various COVID-19 vaccines vary , but one thing is common : the manufacturers ' dosing schedules specify tight timelines , including two shots just 28 days apart for Moderna , two shots 21 days apart for Pfizer , and two shots a minimum of four weeks apart and no longer than 12 weeks for AstraZeneca . While the manufacturers recommend sticking with the dosing intervals from clinical trials , those schedules were based on quickly developing safe and effective vaccines during a global health crisis , not to figure out the best-possible time frame between doses , Kelvin said . WATCH Clinical trials focused on ' shortest path to results ' for COVID-19 vaccines , explains vaccinologist : On Friday , news broke that a U.K. study showed the Pfizer vaccine generates antibody responses 3.5 times larger in older people when a second dose was delayed to 12 weeks after the first -- offering an early hint that a delay may actually offer more protection . More research is still needed . Dr. Danuta Skowronski of the BC Centre for Disease Control , whose research helped guide Canada 's decision to extend the interval between COVID-19 vaccine shots , told CBC News the findings were n't a " surprise " ; they underscored scientists ' understanding that a longer time frame between doses could be beneficial . The move is also helping Canada rapidly vaccinate more residents , with more than half of all eligible adults getting at least one dose so far . Still , Labos is hoping most Canadians do get their second doses sooner than NACI 's four-month maximum timeframe to ensure they develop solid protection , particularly for vulnerable and older populations who could experience waning immunity . " Four months is probably the outside limit ; I do n't think anybody 's going to suggest that we push it much beyond that , " he said . " The sweet spot probably is somewhere between that three week to three month interval . " A woman walks by a sign advertising for COVID-19 vaccines in Montreal on May 14 . ( CBC / Radio-Canada ) Different vaccines for different doses not ' unprecedented ' For Canadians already wary of a potential months-long delay between doses , the notion of mixing brands -- again , an approach not studied in the initial clinical trials -- might also raise questions . Even so , various provinces are already going that route , or exploring mixed dosing strategies for the future , given the varying levels of supply coming from different manufacturers and ongoing concern over rare-but-serious blood clot risks tied to the AstraZeneca vaccine . The condition , known as vaccine-induced immune thrombotic thrombocytopenia ( VITT ) , has been reported 28 times across Canada out of more than 2.3 million AstraZeneca doses administered , according to federal public health data , including four deaths . Several experts stressed a mixing-doses approach could be helpful given Canada 's situation , and is n't that unusual for other vaccines . " Certainly mixing and matching vaccine types is not unprecedented , " noted Matthew Miller , an associate professor of infectious diseases and immunology at McMaster University in Hamilton , who is also affiliated with NACI but not speaking on the advisory body 's behalf . " It 's just that the nature of the situation here is that we 're having to make these decisions based on evolving evidence in the context of an unprecedented public health emergency . " WATCH Dr. Tam discusses second doses , mixing vaccines : Annual flu shots , for instance , can come from a variety of sources , meaning people could be getting a different brand or form of vaccine technology each year . Same with the shingles vaccine , Miller said , which had one formulation in its first generation while a different formulation was used for a later , more effective dose . " Prior to this , nobody would actually ask , ' who made my vaccine , ' you would just go for a flu vaccine , " said Labos . " And nobody seemed to realize that there were multiple companies making different types of flu vaccines , and they were being used in different segments of the population -- people were relatively oblivious to this entire issue . " He also noted that preliminary results from a U.K. study suggest using different vaccines for different doses could even offer a " better immune response . " The early findings , based on a trial using Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines , showed swapping in one of each for the two doses hiked the chance of someone having mild or moderate reactions like fatigue , headache or a fever . These reactions may bode well for immunity , though further research is needed before drawing any firm conclusions . Deaths , hospitalizations among older adults dropping In recent weeks , despite the questions over Canada 's approaches , it 's becoming clear that country-wide vaccination efforts are starting to bear fruit . COVID-19 cases , hospitalizations and deaths among the oldest Canadians recently began dropping at a faster rate than in younger adults who are less likely to be vaccinated yet , according to a CBC News analysis released in late April . That finding suggests this country is now moving along the same path as the U.S. , the U.K. and Israel , where mass vaccination campaigns are further along and deaths are dropping dramatically . Overall , Kelvin said Canada 's strategies may raise questions but they 're nonetheless in line with a body of vaccine research that existed long before COVID-19 . " I think it was definitely a valid concern that all of the evidence we had for COVID-19 vaccines were based on the phase three clinical trials , " she said . " Of course , that did n't take into consideration what we understand about vaccines and vaccine immune responses . " <p> Karine Sp ? nard , the coroner investigating the death of Candida Macarine at the Lakeshore General Hospital in Montreal 's West Island in February , has stepped aside after Macarine 's family suggested she was in a conflict of interest . Macarine was found dead on the floor of a negative pressure isolation room in the emergency room at the hospital Feb. 27 , a few hours after being admitted . Nurses had repeatedly warned managers it was difficult to monitor patients in the room because of visibility problems . The hospital did not tell Macarine 's family about the circumstances of her death , which they only learned of two weeks later after seeing a CBC story . The family was hoping the coroner 's investigation would finally bring some answers , but at a news conference Monday morning they said they were worried about Sp ? nard 's ability to look at the case impartially . Sp ? nard 's profile on LinkedIn shows that directly before she joined the coroner 's office in 2017 , she was the head of legal affairs for the CIUSSS de l'Ouest de l ' ? le de Montr ? al , the health agency that oversees the Lakeshore . " We are concerned that with the possible conflict of interest , the coroner 's investigation will not shed light on all the facts and circumstances of my mom 's death , " Gilda Macarine , Candida Macarine 's daughter told the news conference . Coroner steps aside Late Monday , Jake-Lamotta Granato , a spokesperson for the coroner 's office , told CBC in an email that while the chief coroner still has full confidence in Sp ? nard , she 's no longer on the case . " She has n't been an employee of the CIUSSS for several years . She has all the independence necessary to carry out this investigation , " Lamotta-Granato said . Karine Sp ? nard asked the Chief Coroner Monday to appoint another coroner to the case , saying she had lost the trust of the family . ( LinkedIn ) " However , as Ms. Macarine 's family members withdrew their trust in Coroner Sp ? nard , the latter requested that the investigation of the death be transferred to another coroner , " Lamotta-Granato said . " The Chief Coroner accepted his request and a new coroner will be appointed to pursue the case , " he added . Important to ' rebuild confidence ' Emmanuelle Marceau , associate professor at Universit ? de Montr ? al 's school of public health , told CBC that while Sp ? nard was n't in a direct conflict of interest , it 's probably best that a new coroner will be appointed . " Considering that the person ( Sp ? nard ) was at the job for a certain number of years , maybe she made connections , she knows people internally , so perhaps she might not have been able to lead this investigation in the most objective fashion , " Marceau said . " In situations where people have lost a loved one , and where they 've lost confidence in the system , they have doubts because they do n't understand what happened , there 's miscommunication , it 's important to rebuild that confidence , " Marceau said . " It 's important for this family , but also for Quebec society , to maintain confidence in our CIUSSSes and our health-care system , " she added . <p> The Yukon government has delivered on one of its promises to the NDP -- a residential rent cap that came into effect over the weekend . The move has already drawn fire from the opposition Yukon Party , and some landlords who say they wo n't be able to afford their properties anymore . The cap came into effect on Saturday , and it limits any residential rent increases this year to one per cent , which is the Consumer Price Index ( CPI ) for Whitehorse in 2020 . The percentage will be reviewed each year after the CPI is published . Housing was a central focus of the NDP 's campaign platform this spring , and the party later made a rent cap a condition in their agreement to prop up the Liberals ' minority government until at least 2023 . Community Services Minister Richard Mostyn said the Liberals did n't support rent caps during the election campaign , but a deal 's a deal . ' We 're going to honour the agreement we signed with the NDP , ' said Richard Mostyn , Yukon 's minister of Community Services . ( Jane Sponagle/CBC ) " Yukoners have spoken . They want us to work together with the New Democratic caucus . The New Democratic caucus wants a rental cap , " Mostyn said . " We 're going to honour the agreement we signed with them . " ' I 'm going to keep falling behind ' The rent cap is already proving unpopular with some residential landlords . Louisa Williams says it 's the " catalyst " for her selling her rental property . She bought a two-bedroom condo in Whitehorse two years ago as part of her retirement plan , and she 's been renting it out for $1,600 per month . Now , she does n't feel like she can afford to keep it any longer . " I 'm going to be losing the small profit margin I had , because of the rent freeze . I am not going to be able to keep up with the fixed and variable costs that are being imposed . So I 'm going to keep falling behind , " she said . Williams is not evicting her tenants -- she said they were already moving out . Now she 'll take the opportunity to sell the place . Costs are going up all the time , she says , and rent is the only way to help cover those costs . " To make it fair , I think the government should impose a freeze on electrical fees , on Northwestel fees , on oil and renewable energy and on anything else , like insurance . So a freeze on all that , just like the rent , and then it would be fine , it would all equal itself out , " Williams said . Yukon Party Leader Currie Dixon said the rent cap is simply bad policy , and it 's not going to improve Yukon 's housing market for anybody . " It 's going to result in fewer people wanting to be landlords , and therefore fewer rental properties , and fewer rental properties means fewer options for people in the housing market , " Dixon said . Dixon also called the introduction of the rent cap a " masterclass in poor governance and bad policy-making . " ' It 's been messy , it 's been ugly , ' said Yukon Party Leader Currie Dixon . ( Mike Rudyk/CBC ) " I mean , nobody seems to know what 's going on ... there 's been absolutely no communication with the public , there 's been no consultation , there 's no implementation plan , no communication plan . It 's been , quite frankly , terrible , " Dixon said , just before the change came into effect . " It 's been messy , it 's been ugly . And unfortunately , it 's going to result in a whole lot of negative implications for our housing market . " Tenants are relieved , says NDP leader NDP Leader Kate White dismisses the doomsaying . She says she 's heard from landlords who are concerned about the change -- but she 's also heard from tenants . White argues that vulnerable tenants are rarely as outspoken as landlords , and do n't have any sort of organization comparable to the Yukon Residential Landlords ' Association . " I can tell you that I have heard from tenants who are relieved because those increases that they were facing are not going to come into effect right now , " White said . White says the rent cap is in place until 2023 , allowing plenty of time for the government to review it and also plan and consult about any long-term changes to rental legislation . White said it was important to do something now , and not wait to consult . " If there 's a tenant right now facing a $300-a-month increase , and there 's no flexibility around that , do they have the time to wait for that consultation ? And my answer is no , " White said . " Right now , this is a measure of protection and it 's in place for 20 months . " <p> Pharmacists on Prince Edward Island are now delivering first doses of COVID-19 vaccines to Islanders 40 and over . Last week they stopped administering AstraZeneca-Oxford shots , on the direction of the province . Twelve pharmacies across P.E.I. are part of the vaccine program . " The use of AstraZeneca was suspended , " Erin MacKenzie , executive director of the P.E.I. Pharmacists Association , told CBC News : Compass host Louise Martin Monday . " Any of the AstraZeneca doses that they had on hand has been returned to the provincial pharmacy . " Pharmacies are only giving first doses of vaccines for now , and are continuing to give shots of Moderna . Moderna uptake has been good The province does have enough AstraZeneca to deliver second shots to anyone who received it in the first round , but MacKenzie said the Chief Public Health Office will let pharmacies know around the end of May whether that will happen . She said the uptake of Moderna vaccines at pharmacies has been very good , especially since those 40 and over can now book appointments either at pharmacies or through the province 's mass clinics . She said she is excited to hear pharmacies will be getting more Moderna delivered by the end of this week . Watch for online bookings at pharmacies to open up soon as the vaccine supply arrives , she said . She said pharmacists are getting a lot of questions about which vaccines are best , but she believes they are all safe and people should get vaccinated as soon as possible to prevent the spread of COVID-19 . More from CBC P.E.I. <p> BRDO , Slovenia ( AP ) -- Serbia and Kosovo clashed Monday at a summit of Western Balkan nations over state border changes , a thorny issue in a region that is still recuperating from bloody civil wars in the 1990s . The largely ceremonial annual gathering in Slovenia of the presidents of two EU-member states , Slovenia and Croatia , with leaders of six Balkan nations that formally seek membership in the bloc was to adopt a resolution that calls for unchangeability of the existing borders in the region . However , Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic rejected such a wording in the resolution because it would indirectly mean that Serbia recognizes the borders of its former breakaway province of Kosovo , which unilaterally declared independence in 2008 . He has proposed that only the borders recognized by the United Nations be declared as fixed . Kosovo , which is not an UN member , has been recognized by the United States and most of the West , while Serbia and its allies Russia and China refuse to do that . Kosovo " would like to interpret the borders as it wishes , or like a part of the world has already done , " Vucic told reporters after the meeting in the Slovenian resort of Brdo . Kosovo " did not want to talk about the U.N . at any price ... for us to accept anything like that is absolutely impossible , " he said . In her speech at the summit , Kosovo President Vjosa Osmani said she wants to be " loud and clear : The Republic of Kosovo as a sovereign and independent country is a permanent project . " " There is nothing and no one that can reverse this reality . Dangerous adventures on border changes should be resolutely rejected by all of us , if we truly desire peace and stability in our region , " she said . The clash at the summit came several weeks after the publishing of a document allegedly drafted by the Slovenia 's populist Prime Minister Janez Jansa , which proposed border changes across the Western Balkans . That is something highly controversial , because such attempts to forcefully change borders between former Yugoslav nations triggered the worst carnage in Europe since World War II . Jansa reluctantly denied that he was the author of the document handed over to the EU that triggered the political storm . The alleged " non-paper " was reportedly intended to settle lingering ethnic tensions by forming nearly ethnically pure states and thus help the Western Balkan nations in their long-term goal of joining the 27-nation European Union . The summit 's hosts , Slovenian President Borut Pahor and Croatian President Zoran Milanovic , said a " compromise " wording was adopted in a joint statement by the participants that reaffirmed their commitment to EU enlargement . " There were many differences , voices were raised , " Pahor said . " But in the end we signed a document with which I 'm very happy . " The meeting , marking the 10th anniversary of the initiative , was attended by the leaders of Slovenia , Croatia , Albania , Montenegro , Kosovo , North Macedonia , Serbia and Bosnia . The in-person gathering was postponed twice last year because of the coronavirus pandemic . Dusan Stojanovic and Jovana Gec in Belgrade , Serbia , and Llazar Semini in Tirana , Albania contributed . Darko Bandic , The Associated Press <p> Prince Albert police have released more details about their investigation into the death of Braden Herman . They say that on May 11 , veteran RCMP officer Cpl . Bernie Herman phoned a co-worker and said he had " killed someone . " He agreed to go to his co-worker 's house , located just north of Prince Albert . The RCMP , whose district the house was in , were then contacted and Bernie Herman was taken into custody . On May 12 , 53-year-old Bernie Herman was charged with first-degree murder . He had served on the force for 32 years . He and Braden Herman are not related but knew each other for several years , according to police . During the initial RCMP response , Bernie Herman provided information as to where police could find the victim . Police say that when they located 26-year-old Braden Herman on the edge of Prince Albert near Little Red Park , he was dead and appeared to have been shot . At that time , the Prince Albert Police Service took over the investigation . Braden Herman , 26 , was found dead on the edge of Prince Albert near Little Red Park . ( Braden Herman/Facebook ) Investigation continues , motive unknown Braden Herman 's siblings have told CBC News the 53-year-old Mountie was known to them as having a " personal " and oftentimes " controlling " relationship with their brother . Braden Herman came from Clearwater River Dene Nation and Bernie Herman comes from the neighbouring community of of La Loche . Police say they can not confirm what weapon was used in the homicide at this time . But Prince Albert police have seized Bernie Herman 's service pistol and other " use-of-force equipment . " Police say he was not on duty at the time of the offence . But upon investigation it was been determined that he left work in full uniform and utility belt after finishing his shift at 5 p.m. on May 11 . Police have taken statements from family members of both Bernie Herman and Braden Herman . Investigators are continuing to gather statements in order to gain insight into the nature of their relationship , as well as the possible motivation for the offence . Bernie Herman made his first court appearance on May 13 . His next court appearance is expected to be on May 26 . <p> Scenes of devastation in Gaza are likely to make it harder for Israel to win its biggest diplomatic prize : recognition by Saudi Arabia . Arab officials have come together to condemn what they describe as flagrant Israeli violations during the past two weeks , from Israeli police action around Jerusalem 's al-Aqsa mosque to deadly air strikes on the Gaza Strip . But in the United Arab Emirates , which along with Bahrain recognised Israel last year under the U.S.-backed " Abraham Accords " , official criticism of Israel now often comes balanced with popular expression of hard words for the other side . 
@@52741454 <h> Israel says Gaza tunnels destroyed in heavy airstrikes <p> GAZA CITY , Gaza Strip ( AP ) -- The Israeli military unleashed a wave of heavy airstrikes on the Gaza Strip early Monday , saying it destroyed 15 kilometers ( nine miles ) of militant tunnels and the homes of nine Hamas commanders . <p> Residents of Gaza awakened by the overnight barrage described it as the heaviest since the war began a week ago , and even more powerful than a wave of airstrikes in Gaza City the day before that left 42 dead and flattened three buildings . That earlier attack was the deadliest in the current round of hostilities between Israel and Gaza 's Hamas rulers . <p> There was no immediate word on the casualties from the latest strikes . A three-story building in Gaza City was heavily damaged , but residents said the military warned them 10 minutes before the strike and everyone cleared out . They said many of the airstrikes hit nearby farmland . <p> Gaza 's mayor , Yahya Sarraj , told Al-Jazeera TV that the strikes had caused extensive damage to roads and other infrastructure . " If the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said . <p> The U.N . has warned that the territory 's sole power station is at risk of running out of fuel , and Sarraj said Gaza was also low on spare parts . Gaza already experiences daily power outages for between eight and 12 hours and tap water is undrinkable . Mohammed Thabet , a spokesman for the the territory 's electricity distribution company , said it has fuel to supply Gaza with electricity for two or a three days . Airstrikes have damaged supply lines and the company 's staff can not reach areas that were hit because of continued Israeli shelling , he added . <p> Since then , the Israeli military has launched hundreds of airstrikes that it says are targeting Hamas ' militant infrastructure . Palestinian militants in Gaza have fired more than 3,100 rockets into Israel . <p> At least 188 Palestinians have been killed in the strikes , including 55 children and 33 women , with 1,230 people wounded . Eight people in Israel have been killed in rocket attacks launched from Gaza , including a 5-year-old boy and a soldier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ destruction through my 14 years of work , " said Samir al-Khatib , an emergency rescue official in Gaza . " Not even in the 2014 war , " he added , referring to the most destructive of the previous three wars fought between Israel and Hamas . <p> The military said it struck nine houses in different parts of northern Gaza that belonged to " high-ranking commanders " in Hamas , the Islamic militant group that has controlled the territory since seizing power from rival Palestinian forces in 2007 . <p> In recent days , Israel has targeted the homes of a number of senior Hamas leaders , including Yehiyeh Sinwar , the top leader inside Gaza . The group 's leadership goes underground when the fighting begins , and it 's unlikely any were at home at the time of the strikes . <p> Hamas and the Islamic Jihad militant group say at least 20 of their fighters have been killed , while Israel says the number is much higher and has released the names of and photos of more than two dozen militant commanders it says were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 35 " terror targets " as well as the tunnels , which it says are part of an elaborate system it refers to as the " Metro , " used by fighters to take cover from airstrikes . <p> Despite international efforts at a cease-fire , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Sunday that Israel 's attacks were continuing at " full-force " and would " take time . " Israel " wants to levy a heavy price " on the Hamas militant group . <p> Hamas ' top leader Ismail Haniyeh , who is based abroad , said the group has been contacted by the U.S. , Russia , Egypt and Qatar as part of cease-fire efforts but " will not accept a solution that is not up to the sacrifices of the Palestinian people . " <p> In an interview with the Lebanese daily Al-Akhbar , he blamed the war on Israel 's actions in Jerusalem and boasted that the rockets were " paralyzing the usurping entity ( Israel ) by imposing a curfew on its citizens and closing its airports and ports . " <p> Egyptian President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ urgently " end the violence , in his first comments since the war broke out . Egypt , which borders Gaza and Israel , has played a central role in the cease-fires brokered after previous rounds of fighting . <p> An Egyptian diplomat said the efforts were focusing on two issues -- a halt in all attacks from both sides and halting Israeli policies in the contested city of Jerusalem that helped spark the fighting . These include police raids against Palestinian protesters in and around the Al-Aqsa Mosque and the planned evictions of Palestinians by Jewish settlers in east Jerusalem . <p> The diplomat , speaking on condition of anonymity because he was talking about confidential diplomatic discussions , said mediators were counting on the Biden administration to put pressure on Israel to stop its offensive and there were expectations for action in the coming 48 hours . <p> Israel 's airstrikes have leveled a number of Gaza City 's tallest buildings , which Israel alleges contained Hamas military infrastructure . Among them was the building housing The Associated Press Gaza office and those of other media outlets . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and all were able to evacuate the building safely . <p> Netanyahu alleged that Hamas military intelligence was operating inside the building and said Sunday any evidence would be shared through intelligence channels . Neither the White House nor the State Department would say if any had been seen . <p> The AP had operated from the building for 15 years , including through three previous wars between Israel and Hamas . The news agency 's cameras , operating from its top floor office and roof terrace , offered 24-hour live shots as militant rockets arched toward Israel and Israeli airstrikes hammered the city and its surroundings . <p> AP President and CEO Gary Pruitt released a statement after Saturday 's attack saying he was " shocked and horrified " that Israel targeted the building . He said the AP had " no indication Hamas was in the building or active in the building . " <p> " This is something we actively check to the best of our ability , " he said . " We would never knowingly put our journalists at risk . " 
@@52741503 <h> Evening Brief : Rolling out and going up <p> Today 's Evening Brief is brought to you by iPoliticsLIVE . Join us May 20th at 9:30 a.m . ET for a transatlantic conversation between the European Union Ambassador to Canada and the Canadian Ambassador to the European Union about a sustainable recovery post-pandemic . Register here . <p> The Canadian Armed Forces has not said what Fortin is under investigation for , but news outlets reported over the weekend that it involves an allegation of sexual misconduct . Fortin joins a lengthy list of military leaders , including Canada 's last two chiefs of the defence staff , who have come under fire for alleged sexual misconduct . Charlie Pinkerton has more . <p> Natural Resources Minister Seamus O'Regan says he 's confident his government has done the right thing by filing an amicus curiae brief with the U.S. Federal Court last week in support of Enbridge 's controversial Line 5 pipeline . The brief is filed to support or oppose the position of one of the sides in court , and contains information that may not have been presented before . O'Regan says the case belongs in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1977 . If the court-appointed federal mediator does n't succeed in helping the two sides reach a deal , their respective federal governments will need to settle the matter according to that treaty . Janet Silver has more . <p> " The government 's just doubling down on the decision to keep the outdoor amenities closed , notwithstanding the fact that so many experts and public health leaders are saying it 's long past time for those amenities to open , " NDP Leader Andrea Horwath said . " The sooner we can give folks an opportunity to safely undertake outdoor activities , the better . So hanging on for another two weeks , when all of the experts say it 's not necessary , is really just quite punishing for people . " Iain Sherriff-Scott has that story . <p> As the Gaza-Israel conflict rages on , today the Biden administration has distanced itself from growing calls by Democrats and others for an immediate cease-fire between Israel and Gaza 's Hamas rulers as fighting entered a second week . Despite being Israel 's top ally , the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been an unanimous statement by the 15-nation U.N . Security Council expressing " grave concern " over the intensifying Israeli-Palestinian conflict and the loss of civilian lives . Today 's final rejection by the U.S. , killed the Security Council statement , at least for now . As the Associated Press reports , White House press secretary Jen Psaki and national security adviser Jake Sullivan said the United States instead was focusing on " quiet , intensive diplomacy . " <p> Photo : Jen Psaki /Twitter <p> Still south of the border the Biden administration is set to send at least 20 million more COVID-19 vaccine doses abroad by the end of June -- marking the first time the country has done so for vaccines that are approved for use in the U.S. " Our vaccination program has led the world , and today we are taking an additional step to help the world , " President Joe Biden said in a speech at the White House . " No ocean is wide enough , no wall is high enough to keep us safe . Rampant disease and death in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pose a risk to us as well . " This is in addition to the 60 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine Biden has already pledged to ship overseas . More from NBC News . <p> Meanwhile , Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham finally uttered the words today that the world has been waiting to hear . " I accept the results of the election . ... 2020 is over to me , I 'm ready to march on and hopefully take back the House and the Senate in 2022 , " he told reporters in South Carolina . Good god . That did n't take long . *insert eye roll here* <h> More from iPolitics <p> By submitting content , you agree that you are personally responsible for the content that you publish and that iPolitics owns the copyright in the content that you submit . You also agree to comply with any specific rules posted on blogs or forums . Please see the Terms of Use for more details . 
@@52741540 <h> Dogged by Mideast crisis , US envoy Blinken visits Denmark <p> COPENHAGEN , Denmark ( AP ) -- U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken was in Denmark on Monday for talks on climate change , Arctic policy and Russia as calls grew for the Biden administration to take a tougher , more active stance on spiraling Israeli-Palestinian violence . <p> Blinken is seeing Danish leaders as well as top officials from Greenland and the Faeroe Islands in Copenhagen on Monday before he heads to Iceland for an Arctic Council meeting . That gathering will be marked by his first face-to-face talks with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov at a time of significantly heightened tensions between Washington and Moscow . <p> Russia on Sunday called for an immediate ministerial-level session of the " quartet " of Mideast peacemakers to discuss the escalating Israeli-Palestinian crisis but there was no overt indication that the U.S. would agree . There was also no sign yet that Blinken was changing his travel plans , which currently have him returning to Washington from Reykjavik late Thursday after a brief stop in Greenland . <p> The Mideast quartet includes envoys from the U.S. , Russia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Blinken and Lavrov both attending the Arctic Council meeting , Iceland could serve as a venue for the group to gather . <p> The U.N . Security Council held an urgent session Sunday on the Mideast at which U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Linda Thomas-Greenfield said the administration was working tirelessly through diplomatic channels to stop the fighting . President Joe Biden spoke with both Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas on Saturday , Blinken worked the phones with his counterparts while flying to Copenhagen on Sunday , and a senior U.S. diplomat is in Israel meeting with the parties there . <p> Yet calls for a greater U.S. response are growing , especially in Congress , where a large number of Biden 's Democratic allies are clamoring for more action , including a demand from the administration for a cease-fire . Biden has thus far resisted such calls , reaffirming staunch support for Israel 's right to defend itself from rocket attacks from the Gaza Strip while maintaining that both Israelis and Palestinians have an equal right to peace and security . <p> Israel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gaza Strip , saying it had destroyed 15 kilometers ( 9 miles ) of militant tunnels and the homes of nine Hamas commanders . Gaza residents described the barrage as the heaviest since the war began a week ago . At least 188 Palestinians have been killed in the strikes and over 1,200 have been wounded , while Hamas rocket attacks have killed eight people in Israel . <p> In Denmark , Blinken met with Danish Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen , Foreign Minister Jeppe Kofod and Denmark 's Queen Margrethe . He also saw the foreign ministers of Denmark 's semi-autonomous far north territories of Greenland and the Faeroe Islands . <p> Climate change is expected to dominate the discussions . The Biden administration is seeking to restore U.S. credibility with allies on the topic after four years during which the Trump administration either downplayed the threat posed by climate change or urged other nations to take advantage of the commercial possibilities resulting from a loss of sea ice and melting glaciers . <p> After their meeting , Blinken and Frederiksen both noted the change . <p> " It 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That means a desire for cooperation around the Arctic region , where changes are taking place . " <p> In a statement , the State Department said Blinken " had emphasized the importance of advancing our mutual goals of combating the climate crisis , developing green technology , and continuing common efforts with the Kingdom of Denmark on the Arctic . " <p> Former President Donald Trump had also created a stir when he proposed purchasing Greenland from Denmark , an offer roundly rejected by both . Trump then canceled a scheduled state visit to Denmark in 2019 , creating more ill feelings . <p> A senior U.S. official said Blinken hoped to get beyond any lingering doubts on Greenland by highlighting " all of the things that we 're doing with Greenland as a part of the Kingdom of Denmark . " 
@@52741542 <p> Tensions ran high at competing demonstrations over the Israeli-Palestinian conflict in both Montreal and Toronto this weekend . <p> Police in Montreal confirmed they responded to a conflict that erupted between protesters and counter-protesters at a rally in support of Israel near the city 's downtown Sunday afternoon . <p> People were heard shouting " Free Palestine " as they ran from police , who fired chemical irritants into the air . <p> The pro-Israel rally comes one day after thousands attended a pro-Palestinian march in Montreal to demand an end to Israeli airstrikes over the Gaza Strip . <p> Meanwhile , police in Toronto say they 've laid charges in connection with a pro-Palestinian demonstration that drew more than 5,000 people to Nathan Phillips Square outside City Hall on Saturday night . <p> A 22-year-old man faces an assault charge , while a 29-year-old man was charged with bringing a weapon to a public meeting . <p> Police say they 're also investigating a separate alleged assault outside the square that was circulating on social media . A spokesperson confirmed it was connected to the demonstration but offered no other details . <p> The protests were stoked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Palestinians dead in Gaza and eight dead on the Israeli side . The violence , set off by Hamas firing a rocket into Israel on Monday , came after weeks of mounting tensions in contested Jerusalem . <p> Israel stepped up its assault and slammed the Gaza Strip with airstrikes Saturday , in a dramatic escalation that included bombing the home of a senior Hamas leader , killing a family of 10 in a refugee camp and destroying a building that housed the offices of The Associated Press and other media . <p> Several public figures took to their social media accounts to denounce violence and call for calm . <p> Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said he strongly condemns " the despicable rhetoric and violence we saw on display in some protests this weekend . " <p> " Everyone has the right to assemble peacefully and express themselves freely in Canada - but we can not and will not tolerate antisemitism , Islamophobia , or hate of any kind , " he tweeted . <p> Ontario Premier Doug Ford called on police to investigate any acts of anti-Semitism , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Discrimination or hatred of any kind against any community in our province should never be tolerated , " he wrote on Twitter . <p> Toronto police have said that Jewish people were the group most frequently victimized by hate crimes in 2020 . <p> The Centre for Israel and Jewish Affairs alleged both protests included aggressive acts of anti-Semitism , including Nazi imagery , death threats against Israeli supporters and at least one physical assault . Police forces declined to offer details of what transpired . <p> The centre said it was " gravely concerned " with what it described as " a wave of violence and anti-Semitism impacting communities across Canada . " <p> " There is absolutely no justification for political violence of any kind in our streets , whatever one 's cause may be , " it said in a statement . " ... Like all Canadians of goodwill , Canada 's Jewish community seeks peace and a better future for Israelis and Palestinians alike . At the same time , we urge our neighbours of all backgrounds to join us in condemning these disturbing acts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hinshaw says there are 647 people with COVID-19 in Alberta hospitals , including 186 in intensive care . <p> She says Alberta has administered 2,189,999 vaccine doses . <p> --- <p> 4:05 p.m . <p> Saskatchewan is reporting 167 new cases of COVID-19 and one additional virus-related death . <p> The person who died was in the 80-plus age category , according to the province 's daily pandemic update , and was from the Saskatoon zone . <p> The update says 2,082 COVID-19 cases are considered active in Saskatchewan . <p> There are 137 people with COVID-19 in Saskatchewan hospitals , with 24 in intensive care . <p> --- <p> 2:35 p.m . <p> Health officials in New Brunswick are reporting 11 new cases of COVID-19 . <p> The province is now dealing with 116 active infections , and has reported 2,063 cases and 41 deaths since the pandemic began . <p> Seven people are recovering in hospital , including two in intensive care . <p> --- <p> 2:25 p.m . <p> Nova Scotia is reporting 126 new cases of COVID-19 today . <p> On Saturday , the province 's daily case count dropped below 100 for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been subjected to strict lockdown measures since April 28 , when it became clear the third wave of COVID-19 had arrived in Nova Scotia . <p> As of today , Nova Scotia has 1,531 active cases of COVID-19 -- 92 people were in hospital , including 21 in intensive care . <p> --- <p> 2:10 p.m . <p> Newfoundland and Labrador is reporting nine new cases of COVID-19 . <p> All of the new cases are related to travel within Canada , and all but two involve people under the age of 40 . <p> Health officials are reporting 85 active infections in the province , but there is only one person recovering in hospital . <p> The province has recorded 1,193 cases since the pandemic began , including six deaths . <p> --- <p> 1:50 p.m . <p> Manitoba is reporting 534 new cases of COVID-19 today as well as four new deaths among virus patients . <p> Three of them were in their 50s , while the fourth was in his 80s . <p> The current five-day test-positivity rate is 12.3 per cent provincially and 14.1 per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Manitoba hospitals with COVID 19 and 71 patients in intensive care . <p> --- <p> 1:20 p.m . <p> Ontario Premier Doug Ford says summer camps will be allowed to reopen in the province this year . <p> The premier 's remarks came during a stop at a mass vaccination clinic west of Toronto . <p> Ford offered no details on reopening plans , including whether they pertained to overnight or day camps and any public health measures that may be in place . <p> A spokesperson from the Premier 's office says more details will be announced before the province 's stay-at-home order lifts on June 2 . <p> --- <p> 11:20 a.m . <p> Quebec is reporting 716 new cases of COVID-19 and two additional deaths , both from the past 24 hours . <p> Hospitalizations and intensive care numbers each declined by one to 508 and 119 , respectively . <p> The province added 90,196 vaccine doses in the past 24 hours and 2,234 from earlier to its grand total of 4,323,040 vaccines administered . <p> The province says 48.2 per cent of the population has received @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . <p> Ontario is reporting 2,199 new cases of COVID-19 in the province today , along with 30 new deaths linked to the virus . <p> Health Minister Christine Elliott says 633 of the most recent infections were identified in Toronto , 547 in Peel Region , 172 in York Region , 143 in Durham and 129 in Hamilton . <p> Hospitalizations fell by 254 to 1,292 , with 714 patients in intensive care and 509 on ventilators . <p> Elliott says the province administered more than 139,000 doses of a COVID-19 vaccine on Saturday alone , bringing the provincial total past the seven million mark since the start of the immunization effort . 
@@52741750 <h> A cri de coeur for Palestine <p> This week must serve as a breaking point in the cycle of war and oppression that has killed innocent children and scarred our collective conscience . It is a test of the global human conscience . <p> The scenes of devastation and the sounds of destruction engulfing Palestine are not unfamiliar to me . I experienced my own , very public tragedy in Gaza in 2009 . The loss and suffering are immeasurable . I know suffering transcends the divide . Still , I believe what I faced and what I witnessed are incomparable to what Palestinians are facing today . <p> In light of the Israeli 's unsanctioned evictions of Palestinians in Sheikh Jarrah and the ongoing onslaught on Gaza , the number of Palestinian children killed grows by the hour . Families are annihilated and buried under rubble . <p> This comes towards the end of the holy month of Ramadan and Eid celebrations . While Palestinian children prepared for this celebration with their new clothes and promises of toys and family gatherings , they were met with force : thousands of air strikes , bombs dropped on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The northern part of Gaza has become almost unrecognizable and uninhabitable , leaving families homeless and mourning . <p> The media coverage has prompted many world leaders to recite the same talking points about troubling scenes of suffering , Israel 's right to defend itself , and the importance of finding a peaceful solution . Respectfully , these statements have the hollow familiarity of " thoughts and prayers . " <p> This is the 73rd anniversary of the Palestinian Nakba -- the mass displacement of a people -- and still Palestinians are experiencing cumulative and successive Nakbas in the form of illegal settlements violently enforced , cultural genocide , and war crimes against humanity . The Palestinian struggle for freedom and peace is an international dilemma that requires , if not demands , everyone 's attention , especially those in the position to make a difference . <p> The United Nations Declaration of Human Rights affirms the Palestinians ' right to live in their home country undisturbed by ruthless and relentless aggression . They have the right to practice their faith , maintain their homes , and live without fear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not only a test of political will -- and international law -- but of our shared humanity . We can no longer accept silence in the face of atrocities against unarmed civilians . I am joined by many citizens of the world asking political leaders to speak with clarity and conviction . Truth is the path to liberty . It is time to end the bloodshed ; it is time to end the Israeli occupation of Palestine . <p> Eradication of war and violence by ending the occupation where the language of equality , respect of international law and human rights , and justice prevail . <p> Specifically , we call on world leaders to immediately intervene to stop the atrocities against Palestinians , the occupation of the Palestinian land , and ethnic cleansing of the Sheikh Jarrah neighbourhood in Jerusalem and enforce accountability in international law . <p> In the goal of peace , I beseech you to act . <p> Dr. Izzeldin Abuelaish is a Palestinian physician and an internationally recognized human rights and peace activist . <p> More people are reading rabble.ca than ever and unlike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paywall -- at rabble we 've always believed in making our reporting and analysis free to all , while striving to make it sustainable as well . Media is n't free to produce . rabble 's total budget is likely less than what big corporate media spend on photocopying ( we kid you not ! ) and we do not have any major foundation , sponsor or angel investor . Our main supporters are people and organizations -- like you . This is why we need your help . You are what keep us sustainable . <p> rabble.ca has staked its existence on you . We live or die on community support -- your support ! We get hundreds of thousands of visitors and we believe in them . We believe in you . We believe people will put in what they can for the greater good . We call that sustainable . <p> So what is the easy answer for us ? Depend on a community of visitors who care passionately about media that amplifies the voices of people struggling for change and justice . It really is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to contribute a bit then it works for everyone . <p> And so we 're asking you if you could make a donation , right now , to help us carry forward on our mission . Make a donation today . 
@@52741897 <h> Market News <h> Oil prices rise but India coronavirus cases weigh <p> Oil prices rose on Friday , reversing some of the previous day 's sharp losses as stock markets strengthened , though gains were capped by the coronavirus situation in major oil consumer India and the restart of a fuel pipeline in the United States . <p> Brent crude oil futures were up 66 cents , or 1% , at $67.71 a barrel by 0957 GMT and West Texas Intermediate ( WTI ) crude was up 63 cents , or 1% , at $64.45 . <p> The two contracts lost about 3% on Thursday and are on track for their first weekly loss in three . <p> Global equities rose and the dollar slipped on Friday after U.S. Federal Reserve officials said there would be no imminent move to tighten monetary policy in the world 's biggest economy . read more <p> Oil prices have come under pressure this week from surging coronavirus cases in India as well as worries that the highly transmissible variant first detected there is spreading to other countries . <p> India on Friday reported 343,144 new coronavirus cases , taking its overall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ COVID-19 rose by 4,000. read more <p> " Brent 's renewed failure to exceed $70 is likely to have sparked selling by speculative market participants , especially as operation of the Colonial Pipeline is being ramped up again in the U.S. , " Commerzbank said . <p> U.S. President Joe Biden reassured motorists that fuel supplies should start returning to normal this weekend , even as more filling stations ran out of gasoline across the Southeast nearly a week after a cyber attack forced a shutdown at the nation 's main fuel pipeline . read more <p> Colonial Pipeline said late on Thursday that it had restarted its entire pipeline system and had begun deliveries in all of its markets . <p> Traders were also watching the situation in the Middle East after Israel fired artillery and mounted more air strikes on Friday against Palestinian militants in the Gaza Strip in response to rocket fire deep into Israel 's commercial centre . read more <p> Disclaimer : The views expressed in this article are those of the author and may not reflect those of Kitco Metals Inc . The author @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; however , neither Kitco Metals Inc. nor the author can guarantee such accuracy . This article is strictly for informational purposes only . It is not a solicitation to make any exchange in commodities , securities or other financial instruments . Kitco Metals Inc. and the author of this article do not accept culpability for losses and/ or damages arising from the use of this publication . 
@@52741909 <p> Independent and neutral with regard to all political and religious orientations , Tolerance.ca ? aims to promote awareness of the major democratic principles on which tolerance is based . <p> Director / Editor : Victor Teboul , Ph.D . <p> Looking inside ourselves and out at the world Independent and neutral with regard to all political and religious orientations , Tolerance.ca ? aims to promote awareness of the major democratic principles on which tolerance is based . <h> Israeli Palestinian clashes likely to continue <p> Share this article <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Sunday he is not planning any " immediate " end to deadly airstrikes Sunday on Gaza , hours after his military 's jet fighters flattened three buildings and killed at least 42 people . Netanyahu 's comments came as the United Nations Security Council met Sunday to try to figure out how to quell the violence . <p> All information reproduced on the Web pages of www.tolerance.ca ( including articles , images , photographs , and logos ) is protected by intellectual property rights owned by Tolerance.ca ? Inc. or , in certain cases , by its author . Any reproduction of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In particular , any alteration , widespread distribution , translation , sale , commercial exploitation or reutilization of the contents of the Web site , without the prior written permission of Tolerance.ca ? Inc. , is strictly forbidden . For information , please contact info@tolerance.ca <p> Tolerance.ca ? Inc. is not responsible for external links nor for the contents of the advertisements appearing on Tolerance.ca ? . Ads companies may use information about your visits to this web site in order to provide advertisements about goods and services of interest to you . 
@@52742092 <h> You are here <p> rabble blogs are the personal pages of some of Canada 's most insightful progressive activists and commentators . All opinions belong to the writer ; however , writers are expected to adhere to our guidelines . We welcome new bloggers -- contact us for details . <h> Remembering the Committee of Concerned Canadian Jews and their fight for Palestinian rights <p> An Appeal to Canadian Jews : Join us in condemning the invasion of Lebanon <p> We are a group of Jews who have supported Jewish aspirations for a homeland . Therefore , it grieves and angers us that the Israeli regime will not accord the same rights to the Palestinian people . We abhor the Israeli invasion of Lebanon and the wanton destruction of its civilian population . The Palestinian question will not be resolved by attempts to eliminate the Palestinian people or the Palestinian Liberation Organization . We would like to remind the Canadian Jewish community that recognizing the legitimacy of the Israeli state does not require blind support of its policies and aggressive actions . <p> - An August 22 , 1982 newspaper ad in the Toronto Star containing about 100 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to carry this appeal , so it was published in the Star instead . <p> Sometime in the summer of 1982 , Jews in their 20s and 30s in Toronto , including myself , came out in droves to meetings of the new Committee of Concerned Canadian Jews ( CCCJ ) . ( Yes , our name was a bit awkward and wordy . ) <p> " It brought people , the fence sitters . We were a strong movement . Meetings attended by 50 or more people , " recalls Richard Lee , a University of Toronto professor of anthropology . <p> One of our first acts was to negotiate among ourselves the appropriate wording for our ad . Among the signatories were writer and journalist Rick Salutin , academic and NDP organizer Gerald Caplan , and dissident Rabbi Reuben Slonim -- the latter had been fired by his Toronto synagogue . What stood out about our ad was that it emphasized the plight of the Palestinian people and the efforts to neutralize or kill them instead of coming to terms with their historic claims and grievances . <p> @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tightly knit postwar Canadian Jewish community , which included many refugees and Nazi death camp survivors . Many community members , including my parents , viewed the founding of a Jewish state in 1948 as a miracle and central to their identity and existence , and a place of refuge from antisemitism . <p> Fissures started to develop following the opportunistic invasion launched by Israeli defence minister Ariel Sharon . Then came the horror of the mid-September massacre of more than 1,300 Palestinian and Lebanese men , women and children in the Sabra and Shatila refugee camps in Beirut . Members of the Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) stood by as their allied Lebanese Christian Phalangist militia men went about their rampage . <p> The tough words in our newspaper ad made us a target . One letter compared us to Jews who had collaborated with the Nazis . Ester Reiter , listed as CCCJ chair in the ad , had her own unsettling experience . <p> " My youngest son , who was 16 , was home alone . He got a hate phone call threatening to hurt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the weekend . He stayed away from the house at an all-night caf ? for four nights . He was afraid to go home . " <p> Our second high-profile action was to picket the Israeli consulate on Bloor Street . This upset former Ontario NDP leader Stephen Lewis , who hurled some rhetorical thunderbolts in our direction from the perch of his private radio commentary . Some of this may have been due to the historic ties between the NDP and the Labour Zionists who founded the State of Israel . <p> Author and historian Erna Paris covered what she called a " trauma " among Jews in Canada over Lebanon , in her April 1983 Quest Magazine article , " Aftermath : Canada 's Jews and the Summer of Lebanon -- The Debate is Painful but It Could Bring Canada ' s Jewish Community Closer Together . " <p> Paris wrote that in addition to the CCCJ , the other significant dissenting voices in our community with regard to Israel were Rabbi Slonim , Friends of Pioneering Israel ( a small socialist Zionist organization ) and surprise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ retired McGill University law professor is Mr. IHRA ( International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance ) in Ottawa . ( More on that later . ) <p> In 1982 , Cotler was more dovish to a certain degree , based on what Paris describes as his " convictions . " In adoring sentences , Paris explained that Cotler was willing to risk censure from his community and his own wife by echoing international calls for an independent inquiry on the part of the Israeli government of Menachem Begin into the Sabra-Shatila massacre : " Cotler is a man passionately concerned with questions of human rights -- including Palestinian rights . " <p> What influence this Canadian had in the eventual decision by the Begin government to hold an independent inquiry is not clear . Suffice it to say that a 1983 report came out and there were resignations inside the Israeli government and military . However , Ariel Sharon 's political career did recover , and Israelis had to wait until 2012 for new documents to reveal the full extent of the sinister collaboration between the Israeli military in Lebanon and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ camps . ( More information can be found in the very readable The Hundred Years War on Palestine : A History of Settler Colonialism and Resistance , 1917-2017 , by Rashid Khalidi . ) <p> Erna Paris had little time for the CCCJ , calling us a " dupe for anti-Israel propaganda , " which was complete nonsense . In reality , the CCCJ favoured a two-state solution but had not taken a position on Zionism . Our intent was to build bridges between the left and the Jewish community . <p> This was also before a weakened Palestine Liberation Organization ( PLO ) in a post-Lebanon war stage negotiated a bad deal with Israel in the 1993 Oslo Accords , which turned the newly established Palestinian Authority into the security subcontractor for the ongoing Israeli military occupation of the West Bank and Gaza . <p> To paraphrase a dated romance novel , the left is a many-splintered thing . And so , the desire to stake out a clear position on Israel within the CCCJ led to the unavoidable fracture . <p> Some members of the organization thought that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves for their opposition to the Jewish state and the right of Israel to exist . ( Erna Paris alluded to the latter in her discussion of the far left 's support of the 1975 UN " Zionism is racism " resolution . ) <p> The late York University professor Howard Buchbinder took a different tack within the CCCJ . Originally an American , he had moved to Israel in his youth , served in the Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) , and met his first wife in Israel . Both became thoroughly disillusioned with the direction of the state , and viewed the emphasis on antisemitism on the left as a distraction from the larger issues in the Middle East . <p> Richard Lee caused a kerfuffle within the CCCJ when he wrote an academic paper comparing the treatment of the Black and brown population in South Africa under apartheid to the system of segregation and discrimination directed against Palestinians in Israel and the occupied territories . <p> He was hopeful that the latter would not last because of " the deep tradition of humanism and ethics " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ African apartheid system under a fascist regime was a harder nut to crack . It turned out that apartheid would end 12 years later in South Africa , while matters continued to go from bad to worse for the Palestinians . <p> Meanwhile , Ester Reiter says that today in 2021 she has no difficulty agreeing with the apartheid description applied to Israel , but did n't feel this way in 1982 when that position was considered extreme within the CCCJ . <p> Reiter also notes that the CCCJ fumbled the ball by inviting Palestinian scholar Sami Hadawi , the author of Bitter Harvest : A Modern History of Palestine , to address an assembled audience of aging Jewish leftists and Holocaust survivors at the Winchevsky Centre in Toronto . A young woman rose to challenge the reference to " the so-called six million " ( the number of Jews murdered in the Holocaust ) among the speaker 's writings on the literature table . This set off an uproar that effectively ended the evening . <p> Richard Lee was not at this dreadful meeting , and says he personally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would have been less inflammatory and more intelligent for such an event . <p> Flash forward to 2021 and things look a lot chillier than they did 40 years ago in Israel and elsewhere . White nationalism is on the rise in the U.S. , Canada and Europe , and along with this has returned what is referred to as the old antisemitism , with its age-old offensive stereotypes and tropes about Jews . <p> But this is not the priority for Irwin Colter , a former minister of justice and highly regarded human rights icon who has advised both Nelson Mandela and Soviet dissidents . <p> Cotler is the Canadian government special envoy on antisemitism , appointed to promote the adoption by governments and institutions of the IHRA definition of antisemitism . It was established to target " the new antisemitism " -- primarily criticism of Israel , ranging from benign political commentary to the tougher words used by so-called " anti-Israel " folks , such as settler colonialism , racism , Jewish supremacy and pogroms , to characterize apartheid in Israel and the occupied territories . <p> Today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which has developed a public profile for Palestinian rights . It is hard to compare or contrast it with the CCCJ , since the latter was an organization of its time . One similarity is that IJV has to grapple with and discourage potential activist allies from using political signage and rhetoric containing antisemitic words , says sociologist and active IJV member Sheryl Nestel . <p> But what about the offensive language directed against Palestinians , as witnessed in Jerusalem with Jewish settlers marching with the slogan " Death to the Arabs " ? <p> Nestel says she has heard of an effort to define anti-Palestinian racism , much as has been done with antisemitism . But she is not sure that is a good idea , while affirming the need to combat such racism . " I think there has to be a recognition or realization of anti-Palestinian racism having a specific form , but I would n't want to codify it , " she adds . <p> This phenomenon was not discussed in 1982 within the CCCJ . We came together appalled by the events in Lebanon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Canadian Jewish community . I do n't think we discussed the Nakba either . <p> In writing about the CCCJ , I wanted to demonstrate how the issues of Israel-Palestine have evolved among activists , especially among progressive Jews of my baby-boom generation . <p> Paul Weinberg is an author , independent journalist , and longtime contributor to rabble . He is also a member of Independent Jewish Voices Canada . <p> More people are reading rabble.ca than ever and unlike many news organizations , we have never put up a paywall -- at rabble we 've always believed in making our reporting and analysis free to all , while striving to make it sustainable as well . Media is n't free to produce . rabble 's total budget is likely less than what big corporate media spend on photocopying ( we kid you not ! ) and we do not have any major foundation , sponsor or angel investor . Our main supporters are people and organizations -- like you . This is why we need your help . You are what keep us sustainable . <p> rabble.ca has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on community support -- your support ! We get hundreds of thousands of visitors and we believe in them . We believe in you . We believe people will put in what they can for the greater good . We call that sustainable . <p> So what is the easy answer for us ? Depend on a community of visitors who care passionately about media that amplifies the voices of people struggling for change and justice . It really is that simple . When the people who visit rabble care enough to contribute a bit then it works for everyone . <p> And so we 're asking you if you could make a donation , right now , to help us carry forward on our mission . Make a donation today . 
@@52742218 <p> Independent and neutral with regard to all political and religious orientations , Tolerance.ca ? aims to promote awareness of the major democratic principles on which tolerance is based . <p> Director / Editor : Victor Teboul , Ph.D . <p> Looking inside ourselves and out at the world Independent and neutral with regard to all political and religious orientations , Tolerance.ca ? aims to promote awareness of the major democratic principles on which tolerance is based . <h> IDF obliterates Hamas missile launch ramps <p> Share this article <p> On 17 May 2021 at around 1 a.m , the IDF launched heavy strikes against the Gaza Strip . Within 15 minutes , it succeeded in destroying Hamas 's main missile launch ramps . The latter stopped firing on Israel . Over the past two decades , Iran has developed a system of long underground missile ramps that are extremely difficult to reach . This type of construction has become widespread in the Middle East , especially in Lebanon and Gaza . It is not known so far whether the IDF used a new weapon or ( ... ) <p> All information reproduced on the Web pages of www.tolerance.ca @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) is protected by intellectual property rights owned by Tolerance.ca ? Inc. or , in certain cases , by its author . Any reproduction of the information for use other than personal use is prohibited . In particular , any alteration , widespread distribution , translation , sale , commercial exploitation or reutilization of the contents of the Web site , without the prior written permission of Tolerance.ca ? Inc. , is strictly forbidden . For information , please contact info@tolerance.ca <p> Tolerance.ca ? Inc. is not responsible for external links nor for the contents of the advertisements appearing on Tolerance.ca ? . Ads companies may use information about your visits to this web site in order to provide advertisements about goods and services of interest to you . 
@@62932638 <p> This copy is for your personal non-commercial use only . To order presentation-ready copies of Toronto Star content for distribution to colleagues , clients or customers , or inquire about permissions/licensing , please go to : **27;3934;TOOLONG <p> Palestinian rescue workers carry the remains of a man found next to a beachside cafe after it was hit by an Israeli airstrike , in Gaza City , Monday , May 17 , 2021 . <p> The army said Monday that Israeli artillery returned fire into southern Lebanon . Air raid sirens sounded in a kibbutz near the border , and residents were instructed to prepare bomb shelters . <p> The incident took place near the site of protests staged along the Lebanese border Friday . In one incident , protesters breached the border fence and entered Israeli territory . Israeli troops fatally shot man who was later identified by the Lebanese militia Hezbollah as one of its fighters . <p> <p> JERUSALEM -- Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says Israel will " continue to strike terror targets " in the Gaza Strip after a week of fighting with Palestinian militants . <p> In an address after meeting with top defense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to operate as long as necessary in order to return calm and security to all Israeli citizens . " <p> The fighting broke out May 10 , when Hamas fired long-range rockets at Jerusalem after weeks of clashes in the holy city between Palestinian protesters and Israeli police . <p> The protests were focused on the heavy-handed policing of a flashpoint sacred site during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan and the threatened eviction of dozens of Palestinian families by Jewish settlers . <p> <p> DUBAI , United Arab Emirates -- Qatar has condemned the Israeli bombing of the Qatari Red Crescent building in the Gaza Strip , which it said resulted in deaths and injuries . <p> Qatar said Monday the operation also damaged parts of The Hamad Bin Khalifa Hospital for Prosthetics and Rehabilitation , as did the previous aerial bombing Saturday of the tower that housed the offices of the Qatar-based Al-Jazeera news channel . The mixed-use office and residential high-rise was also home to The Associated Press ' offices in Gaza . <p> Qatar said the targeting of humanitarian and media institutions is a flagrant violation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affirms it will spare no effort in supporting the just Palestinian cause and its brothers in Palestine . " <p> The energy-rich Gulf country has been providing $20 million to Gaza monthly since 2018 . <p> <p> AMMAN , Jordan -- Jordan 's interior minister says Israel has handed over two Jordanian citizens who infiltrated its border over the past days . <p> Mazen Farayah did n't elaborate while speaking to parliament Monday . <p> The foreign ministry said authorities are looking into reports that other Jordanian citizens have crossed into Israel in Monday without confirming whether it indeed happened . <p> Jordan has been witnessing protests against Israel over fighting that broke out last week between Israel and the Palestinian Hamas group . <p> On Monday , all parliament members in Jordan called on the government to evict Israel 's ambassador to Jordan and recall Jordan 's ambassador to Israel . The legislators also called for abolishing the peace accord that Jordan and Israel signed in 1994 . <p> The calls by the legislators are n't binding . <p> <p> UNITED NATIONS -- The United Nations says over 38,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than 2,500 people have been made homeless because their houses were destroyed . <p> U.N . spokesman Stephane Dujarric said Monday those displaced have sought protection in 48 schools run by UNRWA , the U.N . agency for Palestinian Refugees . <p> Dujarric said 41 education facilities have been damaged according to U.N . staff on the ground . <p> " The power supply across Gaza has been reduced to six to eight hours per day , on average , with a number of feeder lines not functioning , " he said . " That , in turn , disrupts the provision of health care and other basic services , including water , hygiene and sanitation . " <p> He said the World Food Program has started providing emergency assistance for more than 51,000 people in north Gaza . <p> <p> CAIRO -- An Egyptian health official says three Palestinian wounded arrived Monday at a hospital in Egypt 's Sinai Peninsula for treatment . <p> The official says ambulances have transferred the three , including a child , from the Raffah crossing point to the al-Arish public hospital . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was n't authorized to brief media . <p> They were the first wounded to cross into Egypt from Gaza since the fighting between Israel and Palestinian militant groups in the territory started May 10 following weeks of clashes between Palestinian protesters and Israeli police in Jerusalem . <p> Egypt , which is mediating a cease-fire , has also sent trucks carrying humanitarian aid and medical supplies to Gaza . <p> -- By Samy Magdy <p> <p> PARIS -- French President Emmanuel Macron says he will have talks with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in the coming days about the airstrike that destroyed a Gaza building that housed The Associated Press and other media outlets . <p> Macron said at a news conference in Paris that " the safety of journalists ... and their protection in times of conflict is a crucial responsibility . " <p> He said France has requested that Israel clarify the circumstances and objectives of the airstrike . <p> Macron called for a cease-fire " as soon as possible , " and said France is supporting Egypt 's mediation in the conflict as key to avoiding more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Abdel Fattah el-Sissi , whom he already met on Monday in Paris , and Jordanian King Abdullah II in the coming days to make concrete proposals . <p> <p> ANKARA , Turkey -- Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan slammed U.S President Joe Biden , accusing him of " writing history with his bloody hands " following reports of a multi-million dollar weapons sale to Israel by his administration . <p> Speaking after a Cabinet meeting on Monday , Erdogan also said Jerusalem should be administered by an international commission made up of Jewish , Christian and Muslim representatives . Erdogan , who has been conducting telephone diplomacy to try and end the violence , said he had raised the issue during a call with Pope Francis . <p> " In today 's circumstances , the administration of Jerusalem by a commission made up of representatives of the three religions will be the most accurate and consistent way , " he said . <p> Erdogan also took aim at Austria for flying the Israeli flag from a government building , suggesting that Vienna was trying to make Muslims " pay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " <p> " Now , unfortunately , you ( Biden ) are writing history with your bloody hands with this event ( in which ) Gaza is being attacked with seriously disproportionate force causing the martyrdom of thousands of people , " Erdogan said . " You have forced us to say this . " <p> Erdogan was referring to reports that the Biden administration had approved a $735 million weapons sale to Israel . <p> <p> UNITED NATIONS -- The United States has again blocked a proposed U.N . Security Council statement calling for an end to " the crisis related to Gaza " and the protection of civilians , especially children . <p> Council diplomats said there was a 12 p.m . EDT ( 1600 GMT ) deadline Monday for countries to comment on the statement and Washignton objected to it . <p> At a high-level emergency council meeting on Sunday , there were near unanimous calls for an end to the week-long conflict . <p> The proposed council press statement by China , Norway and Tunisia , obtained by The Associated Press , did n't name Israel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concern " at the Gaza crisis and the loss of civilian lives and casualties . <p> The U.S. says it 's " engaging in intense diplomatic efforts at the highest levels to try to bring an end to this conflict . " <p> <p> BEIRUT -- The Palestinian Islamic Jihad group 's leader has made a rare public appearance in Beirut where he vowed that his group will keep fighting Israel , which he described as " weaker than a spider 's web . " <p> Ziad Nakhaleh told hundreds of supporters during a rally organized by Lebanon 's militant Hezbollah group Monday evening that Israel is " targeting civilians and avoiding direct confrontation with holy warriors . " <p> The group 's military wing , the Quds Brigades , along with the military wing of Hamas have fired hundreds of rockets and missiles toward Israeli towns and cities since the latest round of fighting began last Monday . <p> Nakhaleh , who thanked Iran for its help , said the latest round of fighting " is a new page in defending Jerusalem and al-Aqsa mosque . " <p> <p> @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ streets in the rebel-held capital , Sanaa on Monday to denounce Israeli attacks on Gaza . <p> Protesters carried Palestinian flags and banners calling for the boycott of Israeli and American goods . They also chanted : " Death to America ! " and " Death to Israel ! " Many protesters were seen carrying AK-47 assault rifles . <p> The protests are called by Houthi rebels , who are allied with Hamas . Both groups have close ties with Iran , the archenemy of Israel . <p> <p> GAZA CITY , Gaza Strip -- Palestinian witnesses say at least two people were killed in an Israeli airstrike at the upper floor of an apartment building in Gaza City . <p> The witnesses say the bodies of man and a girl were brought to the Shifa hospital in the city . There was no immediate comment from the Health Ministry . <p> The latest airstrike occurred Monday in the same neighborhood at Wahda street where a series of conservative air raids had flattened three buildings and killed as many as 42 Palestinians early Sunday . <p> Meanwhile , a fresh @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Hamas-run religious affairs ministry . <p> The armed wing of Hamas said Israel has resumed hitting houses Monday afternoon and said it would fire rockets toward Israel 's heartland in retaliation . <p> <p> GAZA CITY , Gaza Strip -- Hamas ' Interior Ministry has ordered journalists and media production companies in Gaza to refrain from offering their services to two Saudi-owned satellite channels . <p> In a message sent to journalists ' mobiles , a ministry official stressed offering any service to the Dubai-based Al-Arabiya TV and its news branch Al-Hadath are prohibited " by liability . " <p> Hamas has closed the Gaza offices of the channel during the 2014 war after accusing it of broadcasting " false news " meant to distort the Islamic militant group . <p> <p> ATHENS , Greece -- Greece says its foreign minister will head to Israel and the Palestinian territories on Tuesday for talks with his Israeli and Palestinian counterparts . <p> Nikos Dendias is to meet with Gabi Ashkenazi and Riad al-Maliki before heading later the same day to Jordan for talks with Jordanian Foreign Minister Ayman Safadi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will travel to Egypt on Thursday for a meeting with his Egyptian counterpart , Sameh Shoukri . <p> In the past Greece , which has long had good relations with both Israel and the Palestinians , has attempted to play a mediating role in their conflicts . <p> <p> BERLIN -- German Chancellor Angela Merkel spoke Monday with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu about the current escalation in the Mideast conflict and emphasized Germany 's solidarity with Israel and the country 's right to self-defense . <p> She condemned the continued rocket attacks from Gaza into Israeli and voiced her hope for a swift end to the fighting in light of the loss of civilian life on both sides . <p> Merkel 's office said she also stressed that the government will " continue to act decisively against protests in Germany at which hatred and antisemitism is spread . " <p> One of the leading contenders to succeed Merkel in Germany 's national election this fall , Annalena Baerbock of the center-left Greens , likewise condemned the Hamas rocket attacks and backed Israel 's right to self-defense . <p> She @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by U.S. President Joe Biden to mediate between the warring parties . <p> Asked about Israel 's destruction of a high-rise building in Gaza used by international media , including AP , Baerbock said the principles of international humanitarian law , which bans attacks on civilians -- apply in the conflict . Israel said the airstrike targeted Hamas , which it claimed was present in the building , but did n't offer proof . <p> <p> JERUSALEM -- An Israeli man hurt in violent unrest by Arab citizens in central Israel last week has died of his injuries , his family says . <h> Loading ... <p> Loading ... Loading ... Loading ... Loading ... Loadi ... Police confirmed that Yigal Yehoshua , 56 , was attacked and seriously injured by rioters in Lod on Monday , has died . An investigation into the incident is ongoing . <p> Lod saw some of the worst Jewish and Arab violent unrest that wracked Israeli cities last week . Police said that a total of 190 people were injured in the violence , 10 of them seriously . Yehoshua was the second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 11 during the first night of unrest in Lod . <p> Police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld said " operations are continuing across the county to prevent and respond to incidents " with additional reinforcements in Lod . <p> -- This item has been corrected to show that Yigal Yehoshua was the second confirmed death in the violence , not the first . <p> <p> PARIS -- French President Emmanuel Macron and Egyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sissi stressed the " absolute need " to cease hostilities between Israel and the Palestinians , the French presidency said . <p> During a working meeting in Paris on Monday , both leaders shared " strong concerns " about the escalation of violence in the Middle East and deplored the numerous civilian victims , the statement said . <p> Macron reaffirmed France 's support to Egypt 's mediation in the conflict . <p> Both leaders agreed to continue to coordinate their actions in favor of a " rapid cease-fire " and prevent a spreading of the conflict in the region , according to the French presidency . <p> <p> BRUSSELS -- The European Union will redouble @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Israeli military and Palestinian militants , and seek progress during a special meeting of its foreign ministers Tuesday , the bloc said . <p> The EU also called the weekend destruction of a building housing major international media " extremely worrying " and said safe working conditions for journalists were essential . <p> The EU has never had the impact Washington can wield in the region and no immediate breakthrough was expected from Tuesday 's meeting . Ever since the outbreak of violence last week , the EU has been calling for restraint and condemned attacks that hit civilian populations . <p> <p> LONDON -- The British government says Israel must ensure that its military activities against Hamas are " proportionate , " and it is deeply concerned by the destruction of media offices and other civilian targets in Gaza . <p> Prime Minister Boris Johnson 's spokesman , Max Blain , said Britain is " in contact with our U.S and U.N . counterparts and urgently seeking more information from the Israeli government " on Saturday 's attack , which destroyed a high-rise building housing the offices of The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are deeply concerned by U.N . reports that 23 schools and 500 homes , as well as medical facilities and media offices , have been destroyed or damaged in Gaza , " Blain said . He added that " Israel must make every effort to avoid civilian casualties and military activity must be proportionate . " <p> Blain also said the U.K. was concerned about Hamas using civilian areas as cover . Israel says the media building was also being used by Hamas , though it has not offered evidence . <p> <p> CAIRO -- Egypt 's chief diplomat has warned against expanding the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians , urging all parties to strike a cease-fire . <p> Foreign Minister Sameh Shukry said in televised comments that Egypt is working with international partners to reach a truce and embark on political negations aiming at achieving a " permanent , comprehensive and just " solution to the Palestinian cause . <p> He said Egypt hopes the U.S. administration will engage in such an effort to relaunch the political process in order to avert war and destruction in the region @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tensions in Jerusalem and stop efforts by extremist settlers to change the nature of the city . <p> <p> BERLIN -- German officials have condemned the ongoing rocket fire by Hamas on Israel and demanded that the militant group immediately end those attacks . <p> " This is terror , which is intended to kill people indiscriminately , " German government spokesman Steffen Seibert told reportes in Berlin . " The German government stands by Israel and its right to protect its population and defend itself . " <p> Seibert added that it was " tragic that so many human lives need to be lamented on both sides " but accused Hamas of " holding the Palestinian population in Gaza hostage " by launching its rockets from densely populated civilian areas . <p> Asked about the destruction of a Gaza building housing several media outlets , including AP , by Israel over the weekend , Seibert said it was important that journalists should be able to report from war zones , but again cited Israel 's right to self-defense . Israel has claimed the building was also used by Hamas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ DUBAI , United Arab Emirates -- The ambassador of the Czech Republic to Kuwait is apologizing over an image posted online of him draped in the Israeli flag , amid anger in the small , oil-rich nation over the death of Palestinians . <p> Martin Dvorak wrote an open letter posted on the embassy 's Twitter account on Monday after Kuwaitis posted angry messages to his Instagram account . <p> Dvorak wrote that his post inspired " understandable outrage and indignation among many people with regards to the current , deeply dramatic situation in the Gaza Strip . " <p> He added : " It was absolutely not my intention to express any manner of disrespect towards the innocent Palestinian victims and casualties whose loss we are currently witnessing . " <p> The Kuwaiti Foreign Ministry summoned Dvorak on Monday over the post to express " its categorical rejection and strong disapproval . " <p> While some Gulf Arab nations now recognize Israel , Kuwait has not done so in a decades-long support of the Palestinians ' efforts to have an independent state . <p> <p> MOSCOW -- Kremlin spokesman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Israel 's destruction of a building in Gaza City that housed the AP 's longtime Gaza bureau and offices of other media organizations . <p> " We are extremely concerned about the growing number of human casualties , " Peskov added during a conference call with reporters . <p> Peskov said that Russian President Vladimir Putin has n't had any contacts with " neither the Israeli , nor the Palestinian side " in recent days , but such contacts " can be organized , if necessary . <p> The Kremlin spokesman added that " very energetic efforts are now being made both through the Quartet ( of Middle East mediators , which comprises the U.N. , the U.S. , the European Union and Russia ) , and various countries are now in constant contact through bilateral channels with both the Israelis and the Palestinians in order to stop the exchange of strikes . " <p> <p> ROME -- The Vatican has confirmed that Pope Francis met with the Iranian foreign minister and spoke by telephone with the Turkish president amid the spiral of violence between Israel and the Palestinians . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a.m . Monday with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan . Later , he met with Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif , who was in Rome on a previously announced visit . The Vatican provided no comment on the content of the talks . <p> On Sunday , Francis appealed for calm and international help to open a path of dialogue . Speaking during his Sunday blessing , Francis said the deaths of children in the latest surge of violence was a " sign that they do n't want to build the future but want to destroy it . " <p> <p> ANKARA , Turkey -- Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has asked Pope Francis to support sanctions against Israel , saying Palestinians will continue to be " massacred " as long as the international community does not punish Israel . <p> During a telephone telephone call Monday with the pope , Erdogan also said that " continued messages and reactions " from Francis in support of Palestinians would be of great importance for the " mobilization of the Christian world and of the international community , " according to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ During their conversation , Erdogan also renewed a call for the international community to take concrete steps to show Israel the " dissuasive reaction and lesson it deserves , " according to the statement . The Turkish leader has been engaged in a telephone diplomacy bid to end Israel 's use of force . <p> <p> GAZA CITY , Gaza Strip -- Gaza 's mayor says Israeli airstrikes Monday on the Gaza Strip have caused extensive damage to roads and other infrastructure , while the Israeli military says they destroyed 15 kilometers ( nine miles ) of militant tunnels and the homes of nine alleged Hamas commanders . <p> The U.N . has warned that the territory 's sole power station is at risk of running out of fuel , and Sarraj said Gaza was also low on spare parts . Gaza already experiences daily power outages for between eight and 12 hours and tap water is undrinkable . Mohammed Thabet , a spokesman for the the territory 's electricity distribution company , said it has fuel to supply Gaza with electricity for two or three days . Airstrikes have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reach areas that were hit because of continued Israeli shelling , he added . <p> The war broke out last Monday , when the Hamas militant group fired long-range rockets at Jerusalem after weeks of clashes in the holy city between Palestinian protesters and Israeli police . The protests were focused on the heavy-handed policing of a flashpoint sacred site during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan and the threatened eviction of dozens of Palestinian families by Jewish settlers . <p> Since then , the Israeli military has launched hundreds of airstrikes that it says are targeting Hamas ' militant infrastructure . Palestinian militants in Gaza have fired more than 3,100 rockets into Israel . <p> At least 188 Palestinians have been killed in the strikes and 1,230 people wounded . Eight people in Israel have been killed in rocket attacks from Gaza . <p> <p> JERUSALEM -- The Israeli military says its airstrikes on the Gaza Strip have destroyed 15 kilometers ( nine miles ) of militant tunnels and the homes of nine alleged Hamas commanders . <p> Residents of Gaza awakened early Monday by the overnight barrage described @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ago , and even more powerful than a wave of airstrikes in Gaza City the day before that left 42 dead and flattened three buildings . <p> There was no immediate word Monday on the casualties from the latest strikes . A three-story building in Gaza City was heavily damaged , but residents said the military warned them 10 minutes before the strike and everyone cleared out . They said many of the airstrikes hit nearby farmland . <h> More from The Record &amp; Partners <h> More News <h> Top Stories <p> Copyright owned or licensed by Toronto Star Newspapers Limited . All rights reserved . Republication or distribution of this content is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Toronto Star Newspapers Limited and/or its licensors . To order copies of Toronto Star articles , please go to : **27;3963;TOOLONG 
@@73022579 <p> A ball of fire is seen from a distance after an Israeli airstrike on Gaza City targeted the Intaj Bank linked to the Hamas movement which controls the Gaza Strip on May 14 , 2021 . Photo by MAHMUD HAMS/AFP <h> Article content <p> Israel intensified its attacks on high-ranking militant commanders in the Hamas-ruled Gaza Strip , as well as the group 's network of underground tunnels , rebuffing international pleas to halt its onslaught . <p> The Israeli military reported that a top commander in Islamic Jihad , Gaza 's second-largest militant group , had been killed in the heavy aerial and artillery attacks on Monday , which Israel characterized as strikes on terrorist infrastructure and weapons storage locations . Hamas continued to rain rocket fire on civilian targets in Israel as the fighting entered its second week . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu vowed on Sunday that Israel would continue to pummel the isolated Palestinian enclave , where about 200 people have been killed since hostilities began last Monday . Gaza health officials say more than 50 children are among the dead . <p> Ten people , including a child , have been killed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rockets fired has been tempered by a missile-defense system that 's intercepted many projectiles before they land . <h> Advertisement <p> Story continues below <p> This advertisement has not loaded yet , but your article continues below . <h> Article content <p> " Our campaign against the terrorist organizations is continuing with full force , " Netanyahu said on Sunday , noting that Israeli warplanes have struck 1,500 targets in the Palestinian territory . The operation " will yet take time , " he said . <p> The U.S. and other world powers have called for an end to the violence in Israel and in Gaza . The United Nations Security Council met virtually in an emergency session on Sunday . The U.S. has been working with Egypt and Qatar to try to broker a cease-fire , and its envoy met with Palestinian officials on Monday . <h> More On This Topic <p> The fighting has complicated , if not destroyed , Israeli opposition efforts to form a government that would unseat Netanyahu after the fourth round of elections in March again yielded no clear victor . One prospective partner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and another has suspended them . Netanyahu , who is on trial for alleged influence-peddling , on Sunday pushed back against suggestions that he 's extending the conflict for his own political gain , calling it " preposterous " in an interview on CBS TV 's Face the Nation program . <p> The hostilities erupted after weeks of clashes between Palestinians and Israeli security forces in east Jerusalem , including over Israeli efforts to expel Arab residents from their longtime homes in the holy city that 's at the heart of conflicting sovereignty claims . They also set off deadly clashes inside Israel between Arab and Jewish citizens that have since been quelled . <h> Advertisement <p> Story continues below <p> This advertisement has not loaded yet , but your article continues below . <h> Article content <p> General strikes have been called for Tuesday in Israeli Arab communities and the West Bank to protest the violence in Gaza and Jerusalem . <p> Israel seems intent on inflicting as much damage on Hamas as possible before ending the fighting , and has launched waves of strikes against cross-border tunnels designed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gaza used for combat , transport , weapons storage and as hideouts . <p> It 's also targeted rocket stockpiles , militant command centers and naval and drone capabilities , and assassinated key military and intelligence figures from Hamas , which seized control of the territory in 2007 . <p> Some of the attacks have taken place at refugee camps , hospitals and schools , where Israel accuses Hamas of using human shields to try to protect its military operations . Palestinians say many of the victims have been civilians . <p> Palestinian civil defense men search for people in the rubble of a destroyed building after an Israeli air strike in Gaza City on May 16 , 2021 in Gaza City , Gaza.Photo by Fatima Shbair/Getty Images <p> Power and water supplies have been disrupted , with each side blaming the other for disabling power lines and plunging hundreds of thousands of people in the impoverished territory of more than 2 million people into darkness for hours a day . Sewage from a damaged line was leaking into the Mediterranean , and dozens of main roads and streets have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defense forces to navigate . <p> The mayor of Gaza City , Yahya al-Sarraj , said the Israeli strikes deliberately targeted roads to sever links between different areas and destroy the infrastructure in the enclave 's biggest city . <h> Advertisement <p> Story continues below <p> This advertisement has not loaded yet , but your article continues below . <h> Article content <p> Fuel supplies from Israel have been cut off , compromising power at hospitals , ambulance services , a desalination plant and municipal services , Gaza officials said . Mohammed Thabet , a spokesman for the Gaza Electricity Distribution Co. , said at a press conference that the utility has enough fuel to operate power stations for only two to three days . <p> Egypt , which along with Israel has been blockading Gaza since 2007 , has opened a crossing with it to allow in some of the wounded , Palestinian officials reported . <p> Last week , Israel leveled a high-rise housing media offices of The Associated Press , Al-Jazeera and other news agencies . Media outlets have accused Israel of trying to stifle coverage of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intelligence agents were working in the building . <p> In Israel , daily life has been disrupted for millions of people , mostly in southern communities and central Israel , where thousands of air raid sirens have sent people scurrying repeatedly to seek sanctuary in bomb shelters or stairwells . Dozens of apartments have been damaged , and busy streets and beaches have often been emptied as people in rocket-scarred areas fear to venture outside . <p> Their image was lifted dramatically <p> According to the military , 3,150 rockets have been fired from Gaza , including 460 that fell short and landed inside the Palestinian territory , sometimes causing casualties there . It said the Iron Dome air defense system has intercepted about 90% of the rockets it 's targeted . <h> Advertisement <p> Story continues below <p> This advertisement has not loaded yet , but your article continues below . <h> Article content <p> The Hamas group 's armed resistance against Israel has scored it points domestically , where it is seen as a more effectual fighter against Israel than the rival West Bank-based Palestinian Authority , headed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Abbas has brought the Palestinians no closer to statehood . <p> " Their image was lifted dramatically , " said Ghassan Khatib , a former Palestinian cabinet minister who teaches political science at Birzeit University near Ramallah . Abbas , whose term officially ended in late 2009 , called off legislative elections scheduled for May in which Hamas stood to gain , if not win , according to polls . <h> Share this article in your social network <h> Windsor Star Headline News <p> Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star , a division of Postmedia Network Inc . <p> Email Address <p> There was an error , please provide a valid email address . <p> By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc . You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails . Postmedia Network Inc. 365 Bloor Street East , Toronto , Ontario , M4W 3L4 416-383-2300 <h> Thanks for signing up ! <p> A welcome email is on its way . If you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ <p> The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox . <p> We encountered an issue signing you up . Please try again <h> Trending <h> This Week in Flyers <h> Comments <p> Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles . Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site . We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful . We have enabled email notifications -- you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment , there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments . Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings . <h> Notice for the Postmedia Network <p> This website uses cookies to personalize your content ( including ads ) , and allows us to analyze our traffic . Read more about cookies here . By continuing to use our site , you agree to our Terms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 
@@52745348 <h> Democrats Are Slowly Getting More Critical Of Israel <p> Rep. Rashida Tlaib ( D-Mich . ) , Congress ' only Palestinian American , speaks in support of Palestinians and against the Israeli bombing of Gaza on May 13 , 2021 . <p> As Israel bombarded the Gaza Strip in response to rockets fired by the Palestinian militant group Hamas on Thursday night , Rep. Rashida Tlaib , a Detroit Democrat and Congress ' only Palestinian American , delivered a tearful appeal on the House floor for solidarity with Palestinians living under Israeli military occupation . <p> " Help me understand the math : How many Palestinians have to die for their lives to matter ? " Tlaib asked while wearing a traditional Palestinian " keffiyeh " scarf around her neck . " Life under apartheid strips Palestinians of human dignity . " <p> This group of 12 lawmakers ? Rep. Marie Newman ( Ill. ) also co-sponsored the speeches in absentia ? made a point , at times , of objecting to Palestinian militant groups ' targeting of Israeli civilians . <p> But their chief diversion from traditionally bipartisan , pro-Israel orthodoxy was that the United States must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to the extent possible , disproportionate retaliation by Israeli forces and encourage an end to the ethnocratic occupation of territory captured in 1967 . Omar , never one to mince words , dubbed Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu a " far right ethno-nationalist . " <p> The pro-Palestinian speeches ? and a series of other statements , bills and other efforts to shape policy ? reflect a growing sympathy for the Palestinian cause among Americans in general , and Democrats in particular , that is finally manifesting on Capitol Hill . <p> The changes are not yet transformative . Proponents of unconditional support for Israeli government policy continue to call the shots . The prospect of a U.S. president or Congress willing to even threaten the withholding of the financial or diplomatic aid to Israel in the interest of curbing the growth of settlement in the occupied Palestinian territories , or other practices that violate international law , remains a dim fantasy . <p> " The face of Israeli politics has become increasingly , brazenly racist . " <p> - Yousef Munayyer , Palestinian American activist <p> But there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marks a tidal shift from just a few years ago , advocates for Palestinian freedom say . <p> " There is a far stronger cohort of Democrats in the House and the Senate making statements that have not been made in the past . And that 's noticeable , " said James Zogby , founder and president of the Arab American Institute . " It 's reflective of the shifting demographics within the party , and shifting attitudes within the party . " <p> Perhaps no lawmaker more embodies that shift than Sen. Elizabeth Warren ( D-Mass . ) . In Aug. 2014 , Warren shocked many progressives with her impassioned defense of Israeli bombardments of Gaza , including the targeting of schools and hospitals , on the grounds that Palestinian militants used those sites to launch attacks . The position put her to the right of then-President Barack Obama 's administration , which said it was " appalled " by the Israeli bombing of a United Nations school in Gaza . <p> Warren also expressed skepticism of the idea of imposing tougher conditions on U.S. aid to Israel to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years later , Warren has undergone an about-face . In late April , she expressed openness to restricting military aid to Israel as a way to bring about a two-state solution , calling it " irresponsible not to consider all of the tools we have at our disposal . " A few weeks later , she was one of just a handful of members of Congress to forthrightly condemn the Israeli government 's expulsion of Palestinian families from their homes in the East Jerusalem neighborhood of Sheikh Jarrah . <p> Tom Williams via Getty Images <p> Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren is one Democratic lawmaker who has undergone an about-face in her positions on Israel . <p> Meanwhile , in Congress , efforts to condition aid to Israel are picking up steam , however modestly . Newman , a freshman progressive lawmaker who ousted a more conservative Democrat with help from Chicago 's Arab American and Muslim community , spearheaded a letter with 24 co-signers calling for Biden to pressure Israel to halt the evictions in Sheikh Jarrah that helped set off the current round of violence . ( More than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American Institute , have sent a similar letter to Biden . ) <p> And McCollum has once again introduced a bill that would " ensure that United States taxpayer funds are not used by the Government of Israel to support the military detention of Palestinian children , the unlawful seizure , appropriation , and destruction of Palestinian property and forcible transfer of civilians in the West Bank , or further annexation of Palestinian land in violation of international law . " The bill has 19 co-sponsors ; Rep. Jared Huffman ( D-Calif. ) signed on to it on Wednesday . <p> In late April , about three-quarters of the House , including a majority of Democrats , signed a letter promoted by the American-Israel Public Affairs Committee ( AIPAC ) reiterating their belief that the United States ' annual $3.8-billion aid to Israel should remain unconditional . <p> Still , some pro-Palestinian advocates took heart in the fact that more than 75 Democrats refused to sign the letter , which likely would not have been the case in the past . <p> And in light of recent events , Zogby @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of signatures on that AIPAC sign-on letter today . " <p> Progressive Middle East experts believe that a number of factors explain the small but growing faction of unabashed Israel critics in Congress . <p> " If it were n't for young , Jewish progressives ... we would be in a very different place right now . " <p> - James Zogby , Arab American Institute <p> Perhaps the biggest reason is the dramatic rightward shift of Israeli politics under the 12-year premiership of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . <p> Netanyahu 's disavowal of a two-state solution and efforts to capitalize on racism toward the country 's minority of Arab citizens during a 2015 reelection campaign prompted criticism from some Democratic lawmakers . The prime minister 's decision , a few months later , to thumb his nose at Obama by delivering a speech to Congress opposing the Iran nuclear agreement in 2015 was a key turning point that bothers many Democrats to this day . <p> And Netanyahu 's strong partnership with President Donald Trump only cemented his status as a right-wing bogeyman whom liberals could feel comfortable denouncing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . <p> What 's more , Netanyahu 's hold on power reflects a broader reactionary turn in Israeli politics that makes it harder for the Israeli government to sell Americans on the country 's status as an LGBTQ- and vegan-friendly oasis of liberalism . <p> For example , in 1988 , the Israeli Knesset banned the political party of far-right extremist Rabbi Meir Kahane based on an Israeli law prohibiting explicitly racist parties . <p> Now some of Kahane 's followers not only hold seats in the Knesset but are poised to serve in Netanyahu 's next governing coalition . Young Jewish supremacists aligned with Kahane were also leading the charge to expel Palestinians in Sheikh Jarrah and later to terrorize Palestinian citizens in cities near Tel Aviv . <p> " The face of Israeli politics has become increasingly , brazenly racist , " said Yousef Munayyer , a Palestinian activist in Washington who was born in the ethnically mixed Israeli city of Lod . " The whole Israeli political spectrum is dominated by the right now . " <p> The changing political winds in Israel have made it easier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the reality all along : That Israel 's occupation of the Palestinian territories and discrimination against Arab citizens contradict American values of freedom , equality and individual rights regardless of race and background . <p> Since so much of the Israeli government 's argument relies on painting the two nations ' bond as emerging from a shared set of liberal , democratic values , the deterioration of Israel 's image as a liberal bastion has had political consequences . <p> " The myth of shared values is coming to an end , " Munayyer said . <p> At the same time , a nascent left wing in America energized in recent years by the presidential candidacy of Sen. Bernie Sanders ( I-Vt. ) and the Black Lives Matter movement has mobilized to show that pro-Palestinian voters are also a constituency capable of wielding influence . <p> In particular , the emergence of a vocal and organized community of Jewish Israel critics , ranging from the moderate group J Street to more radical factions , like IfNotNow and Jewish Voices for Peace , has created space for Arab Americans and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of being brand an antisemite , according to Zogby . <p> " If it were n't for young , Jewish progressives ... we would be in a very different place right now , " Zogby said . <p> Jacek Boczarski/Anadolu Agency/Getty Images <p> Americans protest Israeli policies at a pro-Palestinian rally in Chicago on Thursday , May 13 . Democratic Party shifts reflect the changing views of the conflict among young U.S. voters . <p> Sanders , a secular Jew who spent time on an Israeli kibbutz as a young man , has spoken with equal passion about his pride in being Jewish and his support for Palestinian rights and statehood . He surprised many observers with his pointed criticism of the Israeli government during a presidential primary debate with Hillary Clinton in Brooklyn in 2016 , and remains one of Congress ' leading voices for a more even-handed U.S. approach in the region . <p> Of course , the Democrats whose views on Israel-Palestine matter most remain much more conservative . <p> President Joe Biden 's White House , House Speaker Nancy Pelosi ( D-Calif. ) and Senate Majority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Israeli government 's narrative that its conduct is exclusively that of an ordinary , liberal nation-state defending its citizens from terrorism . <p> And before the pro-Palestinian group of Democrats spoke on the House floor on Thursday , a different bloc of more moderate Democrats delivered speeches fiercely defending Israel 's conduct . <p> There are signs of wavering confidence in the pro-Israel wing of the party , however . <p> Playing its usual role as a diplomatic shield for Israel , the U.S. government has sought to block a United Nations security council statement on the escalating violence in Israel and Gaza . Under pressure , it nonetheless agreed to a security council meeting about the conflict this Sunday . <p> And on Monday , State Department spokesperson Ned Price appeared flustered when asked to defend the Israeli military 's killing of Palestinian children in airstrikes . <p> " I understand we do n't have independent confirmation of facts on the ground yet , so I 'm very hesitant to get into reports that are just emerging , " he replied with evident discomfort . " Obviously , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are something we would take very seriously . " <p> Caroline Brehman/Getty Images <p> Rep. Jamaal Bowman 's victory over then-Rep . Eliot Engel in New York 's Democratic primary in June replaced a vehement defender of Israeli policies with a strident critic . <p> Right-leaning pro-Israel advocates have correctly identified bipartisan support for Israel as a key bulwark against tighter conditions on U.S. aid to Israel and other deviations from the blanket-level U.S. support that these advocates see as essential to Israel 's security . <p> Faced with the prospect of more strident Israel critics gaining even a toehold within the Democratic Party , pro-Israel donors across the country have scrambled to intervene against left-leaning Democrats in several pivotal primary elections . <p> The Democratic Majority for Israel , a super PAC run by Democratic pollster Mark Mellman , spent $1.4 millionattacking Sanders in the 2020 presidential primary . <p> While Sanders ended up losing ? for other reasons entirely ? these right-leaning pro-Israel groups have had a number of high-profile defeats in other races . DMFI 's largesse failed to keep then-House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Eliot Engel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Democratic primary last June , notwithstanding the district 's large and active Jewish community . <p> Now DMFI and the like-minded Pro-Israel America have stepped in to the contentious Democratic primary to succeed Housing and Urban Development Secretary Marcia Fudge in Ohio 's 11th Congressional District . The pro-Israel groups are backing Cuyahoga County Councilwoman Shontel Brown against former Ohio state Sen. Nina Turner , a Sanders ally who supports imposing tighter conditions on U.S. aid to Israel . <p> Turner enjoys a major fundraising advantage , but DMFI 's status as a super PAC not subject to ordinary campaign fundraising limits could help balance the scales . <p> A victory for Turner in the Aug. 4 primary would be another major blow to the historically dominant pro-Israel consensus inside the Democratic Party . <p> " DMFI came after her right off the bat , " Zogby said . " We 'll see what happens with the race . " 
@@52745590 <p> Preliminary results of an ongoing study in the United Kingdom suggest alternating the Oxford-AstraZeneca and Pfizer-BioNTech vaccines causes more frequent mild to moderate symptoms , but there are no other safety concerns from mixing those vaccines . <p> However , researchers at the University of Oxford have not yet determined how a combination of shots would affect the immune system 's response compared with sticking with the same COVID-19 vaccine for both the prime and booster shots . <p> In a peer-reviewed letter published in The Lancet , the scientists say that an increase in short-term adverse reactions occurred after the Pfizer vaccine was followed four weeks later by AstraZeneca , or vice versa , as part of the study that began earlier this year . <p> Results on whether immune response to mixed doses would be affected are expected to be released by the Oxford team in the coming months . <p> The study recruited 830 people to evaluate four combinations of vaccination : a first dose of AstraZeneca followed by either a booster shot of the Pfizer vaccine or another dose of AstraZeneca , or the Pfizer vaccine followed by a second shot of either AstraZeneca @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a new study with 1,050 volunteers who received either the AstraZeneca or Pfizer vaccine before randomly getting either the same vaccine for their second dose or the Moderna or Novavax vaccine . <p> Horacio Bach , an infectious diseases expert at the University of British Columbia , said the small size of the initial study does not make it possible to know whether some people would get severe reactions , such as blood clots , from mixing the AstraZeneca and Pfizer vaccines . <p> --- <p> Also this ... <p> A coroner 's inquest is set to begin in the death of a 37-year-old Indigenous woman who was subjected to insults by staff in a Quebec hospital . <p> Joyce Echaquan , an Atikamekw mother of seven , filmed herself at the Joliette , Que. , hospital as she was dying last September and caught staff members insulting and mocking her . <p> The video circulated widely on social media and prompted widespread indignation across the country . <p> Echaquan , from the community of Manawan , north of Montreal , died on Sept. 28 after being admitted with stomach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to be held over 13 days at the provincial courthouse in Trois-Rivi ? res , Que. , about halfway between Montreal and Quebec City . <p> A coroner 's inquest does not rule on liability but rather looks at the causes and circumstances of a death and comes up with recommendations to avoid similar occurrences . <p> --- <p> What we are watching in the U.S. ... <p> Days after being forced to shut down by a gang of hackers , the largest fuel pipeline in the US restarted operations Wednesday . <p> The disruption of Colonial Pipeline caused long lines at gas stations in the Southeast due to distribution problems and panic-buying , draining supplies at thousands of gas stations . <p> Colonial initiated the restart of pipeline operations late Wednesday , saying in a statement that " all lines , including those lateral lines that have been running manually , will return to normal operations . " <p> But the company said it will take several days for deliveries to return to normal . <p> In the meantime , drivers have been finding gas stations with little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Colonial Pipeline , which delivers about 45 per cent of the fuel consumed on the East Coast , was hit on Friday with a cyberattack by hackers who lock up computer systems and demand a ransom to release them . The hackers did n't take control of the pipeline operations , but Colonial shut the pipeline down to contain the damage . <p> --- <p> What we are watching in the rest of the world ... <p> Israel on Wednesday pressed ahead with a fierce military offensive in the Gaza Strip , killing as many as 10 senior Hamas military figures and toppling a pair of high-rise towers housing Hamas facilities in airstrikes . The Islamic militant group showed no signs of backing down and fired hundreds of rockets at Israeli cities . <p> In just three days , this latest round of fighting between the bitter enemies has already begun to resemble and even exceed a devastating 50-day war in 2014 . Like in that previous war , neither side appears to have an exit strategy . <p> But there are key differences . The fighting has triggered the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carried out an intense barrage of airstrikes just after sunrise , striking dozens of targets in several minutes that set off bone-rattling explosions across Gaza . Airstrikes continued throughout the day , filling the sky with pillars of smoke . <p> Gaza militants continued to bombard Israel with nonstop rocket fire throughout the day and into early Thursday . The attacks brought life to a standstill in southern communities near Gaza , but also reached as far north as the Tel Aviv area , about 70 kilometres to the north , for a second straight day . <p> --- <p> On this day in 1954 ... <p> Canada and the U.S. agreed to build the St. Lawrence Seaway . The project included building seven locks , deepening navigation channels and constructing a power facility near Cornwall , Ont . As well , bridges and tunnels were built and parts of two Ontario communities were relocated . <p> --- <p> In entertainment ... <p> They 're so hip , it 's tragic . <p> The Tragically Hip is bringing its extensive music catalogue and video skills to the social media platform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ share exclusive clips from its vaults and curate fan content on the account @TheHipOfficial . <p> Guitarist Rob Baker helped kick off the account with a video of him playing a stripped-down version " Ahead By A Century . " <p> Fans are encouraged to use the platform 's " duet " feature with the clip and add their own vocals to late lead singer and lyricist Gord Downie 's verses . <p> The Hip join a slew of Canadian artists on the platform , including Shania Twain , Arkells and Nickelback . <p> --- <p> ICYMI ... <p> The skyrocketing cost of lumber is fuelling a trend that has authorities across the country warning builders to keep their guard up . <p> Det. -Sgt . Tosha Ternes of the Saskatoon police says the city has seen a huge jump in thefts at construction sites since 2018 . <p> She says valuable construction material is often laying everywhere and , especially this year , builders need to be more careful . <p> Earlier this month , $1,000 worth of lumber was stolen from a construction site . It was later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apprehended and charged . <p> But in Guelph , Ont. , the owner of a Home Hardware was n't so lucky . <p> Guelph police say a man in a stolen pickup truck rammed through the gates of the store last month and took about $10,000 worth of lumber . <p> In Newfoundland , Mounties are asking people with information on the theft of about $1,500 worth of lumber to come forward . <p> RCMP in Grand Falls-Windsor say the material was being used to put up a sign on the Trans-Canada Highway near Bishop 's Falls . <p> In response to the COVID-19 crisis , Kamloops This Week is now soliciting donations from readers . This program is designed to support our local journalism in a time where our advertisers are unable to due to their own economic constraints . Kamloops This Week has always been a free product and will continue to be free . This is a means for those who can afford to support local media to help ensure those who ca n't afford to can get access to trusted local information . You can make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cancel at any time . <p> NEW : For every donation of $25 or greater , we will offer a digital advertising package to the local non-profit group of your choice . 
@@52749000 <h> Josh Fuentes <h> Latest Stories <p> COLUMBUS , Ga . ( AP ) -- Ashley and Albert Debelbot were sitting in the same courtroom where , more than a decade earlier , they were convicted of murdering their newborn daughter . The district attorney walked over and apologized . That 's when it sunk in for Ashley , 37 , that they were free of the charges that lingered even after the Georgia Supreme Court overturned their convictions last year : " To have the DA walk over to me and reach out his hand and apologize , in that moment I was like , ' This is happening . ' " The Debelbots brought baby McKenzy home two days after her birth in May 2008 . Roughly 12 hours later , they 've said , they awoke in the middle of the night , noticed a bump on her forehead and rushed back to the hospital . McKenzy died hours later . Her parents were arrested the next day . The couple 's lawyers say the baby 's injuries occurred naturally and her parents are victims of a rush to judgment that cost them 12 years of their lives . The original prosecutor remains convinced of their guilt . The case was overturned not because of new evidence but because of statements the prosecutor made at trial and defense attorneys ' failure to object . The new district attorney decided it was n't worth retrying . The Debelbots met in South Korea while in the Army . Ashley , who 's from Mississippi , was a human resources sergeant . Albert , who 's from the Pacific island of Palau , was stationed there after serving in Iraq . Ashley was already pregnant and planning to leave the military to be a full-time mom when they moved to Columbus in March 2008 for Albert 's posting at Fort Benning . They got a townhouse and prepared for the baby , nicknaming her Mac before she was even born . McKenzy was born May 29 and died around 4 a.m. on June 1 . An autopsy began the next morning , and the Debelbots were arrested that afternoon . During their 2009 trial , a state medical examiner , Dr. Lora Darrisaw , testified McKenzy suffered " very severe head trauma , " causing skull fractures , brain swelling and bleeding . Based on the autopsy and absent any accident explanation , Darrisaw determined McKenzy 's death was non-accidental . The injuries were " most consistent with a crushing type of force . " Asked if McKenzy 's injuries could have happened during birth , Darrisaw said that would be " absolutely ludicrous . " Her testimony went unrebutted . Albert 's trial attorney did n't call medical experts . A doctor Ashley 's attorney planned to call was n't available , and the judge declined a request to delay . Ashley and Albert both testified that they had been eager first-time parents . Both said they did n't hurt McKenzy . Melvin Tarver , who 'd been in a holding cell with Albert the first day of the trial , testified Albert said he 'd gone out to get " dope " that night and when he returned Ashley said she 'd spanked the baby and put her to bed . That could have helped Albert by placing blame on Ashley , but Albert 's lawyer worked to discredit Tarver through questioning . Both Debelbots testified they put McKenzy to bed together . The jury deliberated about three hours before returning a guilty verdict . Judge Doug Pullen sentenced both Debelbots to life in prison . The couple spent years seeking a new trial , arguing McKenzy 's injuries could n't have been caused by blunt force . Medical examiners and other doctors often too quickly assume abuse when a baby dies , said Carrie Sperling , a post-conviction attorney for Albert . " I think it would be shocking -- especially to parents -- to think that you could lose a child and the default diagnosis is if we ca n't explain it , you killed them , " Sperling said . The " lynchpin " to the state 's case was that McKenzy was healthy when she left the hospital , said A. James Anderson , a post-conviction attorney for Ashley . " If you pull the lynchpin out , their case falls apart , " he said . Dr. Daniel Sahlein provided alternate explanations during hearings on motions for a new trial : Blood clots formed in McKenzy 's brain before birth , blocking the circulation of blood and cerebrospinal fluid and causing bleeding . That created pressure that pushed against the developing skull , which was abnormally thin and improperly formed in places . The birthing process further damaged the skull and caused bleeding under the scalp . McKenzy could have seemed fine in the hospital before taking a sudden turn at home , Dr. Peter Dehnel testified : " You can have really quite significant abnormalities of the brain and have a baby that looks really quite normal . " But defense experts also testified there were warning signs in the hospital , including the fact that she ate far less than normal on her second day and that her head circumference increased at a rate about 10 times greater than normal . The medical examiner described the right side of McKenzy 's brain as " soft and mushy . " But if she suffered a blunt force injury after leaving the hospital , Dehnel said he 'd expect her brain to be swollen and firm . He also noted she had no bruises on her head . Defense experts said it appeared parts of McKenzy 's brain and skull were missing . Darrisaw , the medical examiner , rejected that . Two other doctors the state called said hospital records showed McKenzy was normal and healthy when discharged . Dr. Joseph Zanga said the head exam was done appropriately and revealed nothing abnormal . The increased head circumference did n't surprise him . Trauma occurring before birth or during delivery " would not have allowed this child to appear completely normal for two or more days and then suddenly develop the signs and symptoms requiring the child to be brought to the emergency department , " Zanga testified . Dr. Susan Palasis likened McKenzy 's injuries to those typical in car crashes . That McKenzy could have such extensive injuries and not show external signs or symptoms would be " very difficult to reconcile , " she said . She also disputed defense assertions that CT scans showed developmental abnormalities . The original prosecutor , Sadhana Dailey , said Zanga and Palasis confirmed Darrisaw 's testimony that McKenzy suffered an inflicted skull fracture . " The evidence supports a guilty verdict , " Dailey said in a recent interview . After accepting the defense doctors as experts in their fields , Judge Arthur Smith ruled their theory " not credible . " He denied the request for a new trial . But the Georgia Supreme Court overturned Smith 's ruling in February 2020 , tossing the Debelbots ' convictions and saying they were entitled to a new trial . During her closing argument , Dailey had told the jury reasonable doubt " does not mean to a mathematical certainty . " " Which means we do n't have to prove that 90% . You do n't have to be 90% sure . You do n't have to be 80% sure . You do n't have to be 51% sure , " she said . The high court said that was " an egregious misstatement of the law " and said the Debelbots did n't get a fair trial because their lawyers did n't object . Because that was sufficient to overturn the verdict , the Supreme Court did n't address the issue of medical evidence . The justices did say it was " a close question " whether the trial evidence was sufficient to sustain the convictions . Mark Jones , who became district attorney in Columbus in January , said he reviewed the available evidence . With limited resources and a crush of recent murder cases , he decided against pursuing an old case with a high likelihood of acquittal . Jones does n't know whether the Debelbots are innocent , he said , but he also considered that " they lost the prime years of their lives and they lost their baby and then they were incarcerated on top of that for a significant amount of time . " At the hearing last month to dismiss the charges , Jones apologized that the Debelbots did n't get a fair trial . Albert said Jones ' apology was appropriate . " Is it enough ? I surely do n't think so , " he said . Out on bond since July and now free of criminal charges , the Debelbots are struggling to start over and declined to talk about their relationship . Ashley works in customer service for an insurance company but dreams of having her own food truck , and eventually a restaurant , after taking culinary classes in prison . Due to complications with proving his legal residency , Albert , 35 , has n't been able to get a photo ID , leaving him unable to travel or otherwise reestablish himself . " This dismissing the case is only a minor part of my recovery process , " he said . Both said their faith in the justice system is destroyed . " I joined the Army because I believed in freedom and I believed in democracy , " Albert said . " Then I come home to experience injustice . It 's quite disappointing . " They also said they never had a chance to grieve McKenzy 's death . A teddy bear with a compartment in its back holds McKenzy 's ashes . Ashley hugs the bear now and cries , wondering what her daughter would have been like if she 'd lived to turn 13 this month . " I would have a teenager , " Ashley said , her eyes widening in disbelief and then turning wistful as she gazed at two framed photos of newborn McKenzy on the wall . " Who knows how many more children I would have had by now . " Kate Brumback , The Associated Press <p> Halifax police are investigating what they call a suspicious fire that was set in Dartmouth early Wednesday morning and damaged six vehicles . Officers responded to a report of two vehicles on fire at a home on Walker Street around 12:45 a.m . Wednesday , according to a police news release . When they arrived , they found six vehicles had been involved and all were damaged , the release says . Four of the vehicles were parked on the property and two on the street . Four of the burned vehicles were parked on the property and two were on the street . ( Paul Palmeter/CBC ) Policy say their investigation so far indicates the fire was deliberately set , and they have released a suspect description : a white man , about six feet tall , wearing cargo shorts . The release says a dark , older model Toyota Corolla was seen leaving the area and could be connected to the fire . Police say no one was injured . MORE TOP STORIES <p> EDMONTON -- The Alberta government says a new jobs program will encourage private and non-profit businesses to hire staff over the next year and help the economy recover . Premier Jason Kenney says the Alberta Jobs Now program will help 22,000 people get back to work . He calls it the " largest jobs training program in Alberta 's history " and says it will cost the provincial and federal governments up to $370 million . Employers will be able to apply for a grant to cover 25 per cent of an employee 's salary for a 52-week period up to a maximum of $25,000 per employee . The grant can be used to cover salary or training costs , and employers who hire persons with disabilities will receive a grant 1.5 times higher than what they receive for other new employees . Alberta Labour Minister Jason Copping says the program is designed to create long-term , permanent jobs . " They 're going to have to commit for 52 weeks that they 're going to have that hire in place , " Copping said Wednesday . " When we start talking about new jobs , the intent behind the program is to defray the costs associated with hiring , so businesses will hire earlier than they otherwise would to get employees back to work as quickly as possible . " The province says employers can apply for the program starting Thursday for up to 20 new employees . To be eligible , a private sector business or non-profit organization must use the funding to hire unemployed Albertans in a new or vacant position . The government says Alberta 's unemployment rate was nine per cent in April . This report by The Canadian Press was first published May 19 , 2021 . The Canadian Press <p> The trial of a Charlottetown man accused of sexual assault has ended with a deadlocked jury . The eight men and four women could not come to a decision after five and a half days of testimony and arguments , and a day and a half of deliberations . So at around 6:30 p.m . Wednesday , Justice Tracey Clements declared a mistrial in the case of Edward Thomas Mundle , 58 . " One of the most important roles we play as Canadians is to serve on a jury , " the judge told the jurors . " While you were not able to reach a verdict , I certainly thank you for your time , and your diligence in this matter . " Clements declared the mistrial after the jurors sent a note to her saying : " We have reached an impasse . It is unlikely we will get past it . " This was after they had listened twice to part of the testimony complainant Stephanie Douglas gave . She testified that the incident at the heart of this case happened early on New Years Day 2014 . Mundle and Douglas had been in a casual dating relationship for a few months by that time , having met on the dating site Plenty of Fish . Complainant Stephanie Douglas testified Mundle disregarded a pre-arranged safe word during a sexual encounter . ( Brian Higgins/CBC ) Their relationship included consensual sexual activity with dominant and submissive role-playing . But on the right in question , Douglas testified Mundle disregarded their pre-arranged safe word , and sexually assaulted her , causing what she called " excruciating " pain . Days later , she was in hospital with a life-threatening bacterial infection , which she believes was caused by the sexual assault . In Mundle 's 2019 videotaped statement to police , he denied assaulting her in the way she claimed , and said he did nothing without her consent . The case will be back in arraignment court on June 8 to determine whether the Crown will seek a retrial . Unusually for the Canadian court system , Douglas chose not to ask the Crown to seek a publication ban on her name . She told the court she wanted to tell her story publicly . More from CBC P.E.I. <p> A suspected gang member is under arrest after fighting with transit police and attempting to throw away a loaded handgun in the underground Metrotown parking lot in Burnaby on Tuesday . Metro Vancouver Transit Police say they approached Luis Manual Baez , 23 , for smoking marijuana in contravention of the Cannabis Control Act , but as they were talking to him he bolted to a nearby car and tried to drive away . Officers pulled him out of the car and a struggle ensued . During the struggle officers say Baez pulled a semi-automatic .45-calibre gun out of his waistband and threw it under a car . The Surrey man is charged with one count of obstruction and multiple firearms offences . Police say he is known to them and remains in custody . " We are happy to have taken another firearm off the streets and out of the hands of an alleged gang member , " said Metro Vancouver Transit Police spokesman Clint Hampton . The arrest was not a coordinated effort involving other police agencies investigating the escalating gang conflict in the region , according to Hampton . He said it is common for transit police to patrol malls and parking lots around transit lines . <p> NEW DELHI ( AP ) -- India on Wednesday reported more coronavirus deaths in a single day than any other country at any time during the pandemic , while infections continued to spread through vast rural areas with weak health systems . The Health Ministry reported a record 4,529 deaths in the past 24 hours , driving India 's confirmed fatalities to 283,248 . It also reported 267,334 new infections , as daily cases remained below 300,000 for the third consecutive day . The numbers are almost certainly undercounts . The previous record for most daily deaths from the coronavirus was set on Jan. 12 in the United States , when 4,475 people died , according to data from Johns Hopkins University . With over 25 million cases since the pandemic began , India 's confirmed infections are second only to the U.S. Experts say new infections in India , which had been rising steeply , may finally be slowing . But deaths have continued to rise and hospitals are still crowded with patients . Over the last month , India 's COVID-19 fatalities have jumped six-fold . While megacities such as Mumbai and New Delhi have seen signs of improvement in recent days , there is concern that the virus is spreading through the vast countryside where a majority of the people live and where health care and testing are limited . The situation is particularly alarming in Uttar Pradesh , India 's most-populous state with 200 million people , where a court Monday said citizens have been left " at God 's mercy . " Even though new cases have been declining over the past week , the state has more than 136,000 confirmed active infections . Government officials are racing to limit the spread of the virus in the state 's villages . Teams have reached nearly 90,000 villages and the virus has been detected in about 21,000 of them , the Press Trust of India news agency cited senior health official Amit Mohan Prasad as saying . Health experts say the true extent of the virus is hard to gauge , in part because of weak data , and that the government response has come too late . " The national story hid what was going on in rural India and it continues to be fairly invisible , " said Murad Banaji , a mathematician modeling India 's cases . In many parts of Uttar Pradesh , people are dying of fever and breathlessness even before getting tested for coronavirus . Crematoriums have run out of wood and hundreds of bodies are washing up on the banks of the Ganges River . " The villagers often ignore fever and body ache . Before the relatives can understand what is happening , the patient dies , " said Raja Bhaiya of the nonprofit group Vidya Dham Samiti , which works to raise awareness about the pandemic in the state 's Banda district . Bhaiya said the " only testimony of death in the village is the cries of women and children , and these cries are very frequent now . " India 's vaccination drive is also faltering just at the time when it is needed the most . The number of daily administered doses has fallen by about half over the last six weeks , from a high of 4 million a day on April 2 to around 2 million or less this week . Many states say they do n't have enough vaccine to administer . Banerjee reported from Lucknow . Sheikh Saaliq And Biswajeet Banerjee , The Associated Press <p> The number of COVID-19 tests completed each day in Ontario is steadily dropping , despite warnings by experts that the province actually needs to ramp up testing if it is to successfully reopen this summer and avoid a fourth wave . On Monday , only 24,498 test results were released in Ontario , the lowest number since last fall , and less than half of the province 's lab capacity , according to provincial data . Testing numbers on Mondays are always lower than other days of the week , likely because fewer tests are conducted and processed on weekends , but this Monday 's number of test results released was 23,000 lower than that of Monday , April 12 On Tuesday , even fewer test results were released at 22,915 . " That 's a really huge problem , " said Colin Furness , an infection control epidemiologist and assistant professor at the University of Toronto . Colin Furness is an epidemiologist at the University of Toronto , whose research expertise includes information technology and its effect on health behaviour change . ( CBC ) Even with nearly half of Ontarians receiving their first dose of a COVID-19 vaccine , testing and contact tracing are more important than ever to zero in on outbreaks and eventually eradicate the disease , he said . " The end game here is not vaccination . It 's getting rid of COVID and testing never ceases to be a vital part of that , " Furness said . " It 's very disappointing to me we have not been working to increase testing , to increase it a great deal . " The Ministry of Health did not respond to a request for comment . Testing needs to be more accessible , experts say When businesses start to reopen , most likely in June , the province will need a highly accessible , robust testing system to track and control outbreaks , said Ashleigh Tuite , an epidemiologist and assistant professor at the University of Toronto 's Dalla Lana School of Public Health . " As we start talking about , ' When is the stay-at-home order going to end ? When are we going to start having a return to hopefully a more normal-looking summer ? ' it becomes critically important to do enough testing , " Tuite said . Ashleigh Tuite , an epidemiologist and assistant professor at the University of Toronto 's Dalla Lana School of Public Health , says a highly accessible , robust testing system will be ' critically important ' to tracking and controlling COVID-19 outbreaks as Ontario exits the third wave . ( Nick Iwanyshyn/University of Toronto ) Even now , as the lockdown continues , the test positivity rate remains high at 7.6 per cent on Tuesday , the province reported . That suggests there are likely more people who have COVID-19 but have n't gotten tested and cases are missing from the data , Tuite said . " It 's something we 've been dealing with the last 14 months and I do n't think we 've made a lot of progress , " she said . Epidemiologist Maria Sundaram said while it might sound counterintuitive , testing will become even more important as there are fewer cases , because that 's when public health will be able to investigate and understand every single outbreak . Scientists will also need testing data to see how well vaccines stop transmission . " If we do n't know where cases are and we ca n't service those people , we are going to be facing the same problem a year from now , " said Sundaram , a researcher with ICES Ontario , a not-for-profit research institute Experts do n't know for sure why fewer tests are being completed , but it 's likely a confluence of factors . Politically , the provincial government is focused on vaccinations , so testing " takes a back seat " when really capacity should keep increasing to at least half a million tests a day , Furness said . The focus should be on making testing more accessible and not only offered at clinics , but at workplaces , too , he said . " When you set up in hospitals and open the doors and say , ' Come on down , ' you 're signalling to people with means , cultural capital , trust and leisure time that they need to go get tested , but you 're not reaching the high-risk people , " Furness said . When restaurants reopen , for example , he suggested testing staff a couple of times a week . As people get their first vaccine dose , they 're probably less likely to get tested if they come into contact with COVID-19 or have symptoms , said Tuite . " We certainly have n't heard a lot of messaging around , ' If you 're vaccinated and have symptoms , still get tested , ' but it 's important , " she said . " We do want to know how vaccinations are working in our population . " The ideal " testing paradigm " is that they 're so freely and easily accessible that for most people it becomes a weekly routine to get tested , Sundaram said . " It would almost be like you could be accidentally tested , " she said . " Where you go to the grocery store , you see they 're giving free tests here . ' Oh , I will just get one . ' " <p> Flooding in Fort Simpson , N.W.T. , is having ripple effects across the Dehcho region as communities who rely on the town for services like banking , mail and groceries are forced to look elsewhere . More than half of Fort Simpson residents were displaced earlier this month after floodwaters swelled to record levels , enveloping parts of the town , flooding homes and tipping over fuel tanks . The town is a hub for the Dehcho , offering services that are not available in other communities in the region , like Nahanni Butte , N.W.T. The chief of Nah ? a Deh ? Dene Band in Nahanni Butte says roughly 90 residents who typically make the two-and-a-half hour trip to Fort Simpson to do their banking or grocery shop have to travel twice as long to Hay River , N.W.T. , or even longer to get to Yellowknife . " It 's had quite an impact on the community here , " Chief Steve Vital said . " It 's quite costly on the gas . " In order to help , Vital said the town used some COVID-19 funding to order about five tonnes of groceries which arrived in the community last week . " Especially with the COVID-19 outbreak in Yellowknife there , we did n't want to have our members going over there to do shopping , " he said . Nahanni Butte residents have needed to travel much further for supplies while Fort Simpson 's services were halted due to flooding . ( Google ) The flooding in Fort Simpson has also created challenges with receiving mail . Nahanni Butte usually gets a once-a-week delivery . It 's been two weeks since its last one , and Vital expects it will be some time before it returns . As a result of the delay , Vital said trying to get insurance for his personal vehicle is " completely out of the question . " " It 's quite complicated . We do n't have a postal code here and the only one we have is in Fort Simpson . " In an email , a spokesperson for Canada Post said it could not confirm when regular service will resume until an assessment is done in Fort Simpson and residents are advised that it is safe to return to the island . In the meantime , the spokesperson said all letters , including mail that contains government cheques and medications are available for pickup at the Hay River post office . Parcels are being held in Yellowknife or at a secure warehouse . Fort Simpson flood brings back memories of 2012 Vital reached out to the chiefs of Fort Simpson and Jean Marie River to see if his community can support them in any way . Most of the houses in Nahanni Butte , N.W.T. , were flooded in June of 2012 . ( Submitted by Wilbert Antoine ) " We 're here for support if you need it , " he said . He said his community is preparing for its flooding season , usually in June , caused by the summer melt from the surrounding mountains . Nahanni Butte has its own experiences with devastating flooding . The entire community was nearly submerged in 2012 . " Everything was covered in silt and dust and dirt , everything , " Vital recalled . " It was a costly thing . " <p> DUSHANBE ( Reuters ) -Russia said on Wednesday it had offered to help mediate demarcation negotiations after Armenia accused Azerbaijan of a border incursion . Armenia has accused Azerbaijan of sending troops across the border last week , highlighting the fragility of a Russian-brokered ceasefire that halted six weeks of fighting between ethnic Armenian and Azeri forces last year . Azerbaijan has denied crossing the frontier and said its forces only defended their side . <p> Conservative Leader Erin O'Toole told CBC News a recent vote by party delegates to reject adding " climate change is real " to the policy book was a disappointment that distracted from the party 's larger plan to levy a price on carbon . In a wide-ranging interview with CBC 's Front Burner , O'Toole said he believes the members assembled for the party 's March policy convention were n't rejecting the actual science of climate change but rather a resolution that was " hard to understand . " The motion also asked delegates to recognize that " Canadian businesses classified as highly polluting need to take more responsibility " and " reduce their GHG emissions , " and that the Conservative party should support " innovation in green technologies . " It was rejected by a margin of 54 per cent to 46 . " It was not the outcome I would have liked coming out of the convention floor , for sure , " O'Toole said . O'Toole said media stories about the resolution 's demise derailed what was otherwise a well-run convention that exposed few cleavages in the party ranks . ( Anti-abortion resolutions from the party 's social conservative wing did n't secure enough votes to even make it to the convention floor . ) ' I 'm the leader ' O'Toole said his " well-received " speech from the night before -- in which he detailed a five-point plan for a post-COVID-19 Canada -- was overshadowed by an onslaught of negative commentary on social media about a climate resolution that was essentially meaningless . The party 's policy book already mentions the environment , O'Toole said , and the " climate change is real " rejection wo n't stop him from putting a green-friendly face on the party ahead of the next election campaign . " That resolution was a distraction , " O'Toole said . " It was the obsession of many people on Twitter in the days after our convention but , as I said in my first press conference after , I 'm the leader and I was preparing a solid , serious ... plan to meet our emissions targets . " I was already working on our climate change plan . I was n't that concerned about a resolution passing or not passing because I was actually already several months into detailed work , reaching out to stakeholders . " These little stories coming out of the convention do n't really matter if we put a platform in front of Canadians that 's thoughtful , that 's comprehensive . " Delegates vote on party constitution items at a Conservative Party of Canada national policy convention . ( Andrew Vaughan/Canadian Press ) A month after the resolution failed , O'Toole presented the Conservative answer to Liberal claims that the party lacks a credible plan to address climate change . O'Toole 's predecessor , Saskatchewan MP Andrew Scheer , was dogged by accusations that the Tories were climate laggards with no plan to address rising greenhouse gas emissions . O'Toole 's climate platform calls for a reworked version of the existing carbon pricing regime . Instead of sending tax money to Ottawa , the Conservative plan would see the levies paid on fuels like gas and home heating banked in personal " low carbon savings accounts . " Individuals would be allowed to use the money in these accounts only for " green " purchases -- such as more efficient furnaces , bicycles , bus passes and other goods and services that lower emissions . The program would apply only in provinces that do n't already have a price on carbon . The current Liberal plan rebates 90 per cent of the money collected by carbon pricing back to Canadians at tax time . In the last federal budget , the government announced that those " climate action incentive " payments will soon be rebated four times a year in the form of a cheque or direct deposit . An ' outrageous ' betrayal The Conservatives have long opposed the Liberal carbon tax -- in government , the party 's MPs frequently blasted Liberal and NDP plans for a " job-killing carbon tax . " O'Toole said that , under his leadership , the party is going in a different direction . " We recognize that the most efficient way to reduce our emissions is to use pricing mechanisms , " O'Toole said at the April launch event for his environmental policies . O'Toole , however , has pledged to keep the price at $50 per tonne of emissions rather than increase it to $170 a tonne by 2030 , as the Liberals intend . The Canadian Taxpayers ' Federation has called O'Toole 's plan an " outrageous " betrayal of his promise to " repeal the Trudeau carbon tax . " " O'Toole is now planning to hammer Canadians with higher fuel bills through his very own carbon tax , " Franco Terrazzano , the group 's director , said in a statement . " When he was running for leader , O'Toole pledged to taxpayers that he would fight carbon taxes . If he goes through with this scheme , he will be breaking his promise to Canadians . " Clean Prosperity calls the plan ' credible ' The carbon pricing proposal was a point of contention in the leadership race . O'Toole 's main opponent , Peter MacKay , needled him by calling him " Erin Trudeau . " But some environmental groups , including Clean Prosperity Canada , have championed O'Toole 's efforts , calling the plan " a credible path to meeting Canada 's 2030 Paris targets . " In his interview with Front Burner , O'Toole said he 's proud of the party 's history as a champion for environmental action , pointing to the Canada-U.S. acid rain treaty signed by former prime minister Brian Mulroney in the early 1990s . He said the emissions reduction targets agreed to by the Liberal government at the Paris summit in 2015 were actually set by former prime minister Stephen Harper . Conservative Leader Erin O'Toole walks with his chief of staff Tausha Michaud , right , and campaign manager Fred DeLorey , left , in Ottawa . ( Adrian Wyld/Canadian Press ) In his convention speech in March , O'Toole said party members must either embrace change or risk losing more elections . " We have lost two elections in five and a half years . In that time , we have had four leaders , " O'Toole said . " We must present new ideas , not make the same arguments hoping that , maybe this time , more Canadians will come around to our position . " A more labour-friendly Conservative Party O'Toole is also pursuing a more labour-friendly agenda in an effort to appeal to working class voters in the private sector . He said the NDP has ceded its position as a party of working people by becoming consumed by the latest causes in vogue with activists on Twitter . O'Toole has lamented the decline of private sector union membership and has promised not to reinstate past Conservative legislation that was widely seen as anti-labour . He said he understands the value of organized labour because of his father 's work experience . " My dad worked at General Motors . I saw the impact that unions have standing up for their workers and I value that , " he said . " I 've said I will not bring back bills that we 've had in the past . " That 's a very different tone than the one he set during the leadership campaign , when told the crowd at a Hamilton , Ont. event that he would be " Jerry Dias ' worst nightmare " -- a reference to the national president of Unifor , Canada 's largest private sector union . " He 's about the fat cat union leaders . He 's an extension of ( Trudeau 's ) cabinet , " O'Toole said at the time . " I 'm fighting for the voters that have been left behind by their movement . " Pressed to state whether he 'd back a unionization push at Amazon warehouses , O'Toole said it 's up to the workers . The fast-growing tech giant has been the subject of union drives at its fulfilment centres in the U.S. amid complaints about poor working conditions . U.S. President Joe Biden backed a failed unionization effort at an Amazon warehouse in Alabama . " That is their democratic right . We have a fairly transparent process for a union drive and that is in the workers hands , " O'Toole said . " If management wants to avoid a unionization drive , they better listen to the concerns of their workers . " <p> TORONTO -- Canadians attempting to drive across the American border solely for a COVID-19 vaccination , even with a doctor 's referral , would be denied entry , the U.S. border agency said on Wednesday . Unlike the Canadian government , Customs and Border Protection said it does not consider a vaccine essential for entry purposes . " Travel for the sole purpose of obtaining a vaccination is not permissible under current travel restrictions , " an agency spokesman said . " If a person is entering the U.S. for legitimate travel reasons , as allowed under current restriction guidelines , and receives a vaccine incidental to their trip , it is not part of the overall admissibility determination . " The Canada-U . S. border has been closed in light of the pandemic to all non-essential travel . Earlier this week , the Public Health Agency of Canada said it considered driving to the States in a private vehicle for a COVID-19 vaccination on referral from a licensed health-care provider to be an essential medical service . As a result , the agency said such travellers would fall under a quarantine exemption on return if they could show proof of having had the shot and the trip was solely for that purpose . Health Canada did say the decision on whether entry into the U.S. is allowed would fall to American border authorities . Shaun Horton said he tried to travel to New York on Wednesday from Niagara Falls , Ont. , for a vaccination appointment just inside the U.S. but was turned back . He said the border agent did not want to see his doctor 's letter confirming that the vaccine was medically necessary . Horton , an airline pilot in Canada , said he wanted the vaccination because he 's not allowed to wear a mask while the aircraft is in operation . He said he and his co-workers are tested prior to work . " The officer advised that entry solely for the COVID-19 vaccine is not an acceptable purpose as Canada has access to a vaccine , regardless of the supply issues , " Horton told The Canadian Press . However , David Musyj , head of Windsor Regional Hospital in Windsor , Ont. , said there have been many examples of crossings for a vaccine allowed to happen . " That is why this is so political and needs some clarity and leadership , " Musyj said . " We will keep trying to get vaccines into Canada . " The surplus in New York State prompted U.S. Congressman Brian Higgins on Wednesday to call on Gov . Andrew Cuomo to welcome Canadians seeking vaccines . He noted several border states , including North Dakota , Alaska , Washington and Montana , have allowed Canadian citizens to get a vaccine . " Our Canadian neighbors need more help , " said Higgins , co-chairman of the Congressional Northern Border Caucus and the Canada-U.S . Interparliamentary Group . Theresa Kennedy , a spokeswoman for Higgins , said border procedures needed clarification . " Crossing the border for medical appointments is essential , " Kennedy said . " The congressman will be advocating that crossing for a life-saving vaccine should fall within that category . " On Tuesday , hundreds of Albertans lined up at the Carway crossing for a quick drive into the U.S. for a COVID shot at a clinic put on by the Blackfeet Tribe of Montana . Those going to the clinic were exempt from having to quarantine for 14 days on return . " I was amazed and grateful because it 's too slow getting it any other way , " said Linda Neilson , of Cardston , Alta . " We 're just glad they were able to help us . " Musyj , of the Windsor hospital , said he was still pushing for federal approval to allow an organized effort to retrieve surplus vaccines from Detroit and bring them back for use here . Ottawa has said millions of COVID-19 inoculation doses are arriving but supplies remain limited in many areas . This report by The Canadian Press was first published May 19 , 2021 . Colin Perkel , The Canadian Press <p> The Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine can now be stored at typical refrigerator temperatures in Canada for weeks longer than previously thought , which could have major implications on the rollout of vaccines across the country and around the world . Health Canada announced Wednesday it had authorized a submission from Pfizer-BioNTech to allow the vaccine to be stored at temperatures of between 2 C and 8 C for up to a month -- up from the previous five days . The move comes after the European Medicines Agency ( EMA ) recommended the change to the " more flexible " storage conditions for the vaccine on Monday , saying it could have a " significant impact " on the deployment of vaccines throughout the European Union . The EMA said unopened , thawed vials of the vaccine can be stored at temperatures of between 2 C and 8 C for a total of 31 days , up from the previously approved five days , after it analyzed additional data from Pfizer on the stability of the vaccine . CBC News pressed Health Canada on Monday about whether it would authorize a similar request from the company here , but a spokesperson for the federal agency said the submission was still " under review . " Health Canada then updated its guidance Wednesday , allowing for thawed Pfizer vaccines to be kept at fridge temperatures for up to one month . Vials thawed at room temperature ( up to 25 C ) for 30 minutes must be used immediately , according to the vaccine 's product monograph . The vaccine is typically stored at temperatures between -- 80 C to -- 60 C in Canada . Doses of the Pfizer vaccine are taken from cold storage to waiting transit ahead of distribution to hundreds of locations across England on Dec. 14 , 2020 . Changes to storage requirements for the vaccine could mean more flexibility for Canada 's rollout , but experts said global benefits could be even more significant . ( Jacob King/WPA/Getty Images ) A spokesperson for Pfizer Canada said Wednesday the company made the request for the storage temperature changes to Health Canada on May 10 , based on new data from stability studies that confirmed the quality of the vaccine for up to 31 days . The company says the formulation of the vaccine remains unchanged following the approval , adding that the extended storage period is effective immediately and applies to all current and future batches in Canada . " This approval allows significantly more flexibility in the distribution of the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine to clinics across the country while maintaining our ability to deliver large volumes on a consistent basis , " Christina Antoniou , Pfizer Canada 's director of corporate affairs , told CBC News . " Given the importance of enhancing the distribution and administration process on the ground , Pfizer and BioNTech will continue to explore additional potential solutions to meet vaccination needs around the world . " Dr. Zain Chagla , an infectious diseases physician at St. Joseph 's Healthcare Hamilton and an associate professor at McMaster University , says changes to how the thawed vaccine is stored could break down barriers to access in Canada -- especially as second doses roll in . He says a longer storage time and more stable temperature would allow family physicians , homeless shelters , pharmacies , jails , pop-up clinics and eventually schools to keep Pfizer vaccines longer and potentially administer more doses . Dr. Isaac Bogoch , an infectious diseases physician at Toronto General Hospital and member of Ontario 's COVID-19 vaccine task force , said the change in storage temperature would also make the vaccine easier to transport outside Canada 's major urban centres . " By mitigating these cold chain limitations , you can just more readily get this vaccine out to more places , " he said . " It just basically makes this vaccine much more usable and much easier to scale to larger populations . " WATCH Storing vaccine at warmer temperatures makes distribution ' so much easier ' ( Feb. 19 ) : Bogoch says the proposed change could also lessen the pressure on individual provinces and territories when it comes to doses potentially expiring . " You 're just not going to have this vaccine expire , because you 've got more wiggle room and more time that it can sit in conventional refrigeration , " he said . " You just have the potential to vaccinate more people . " Pfizer storage challenged Canada 's early rollout Canada 's early deployment of the Pfizer vaccine was hindered by its complicated temperature requirements , which forced provinces to get creative in order to deliver it to vulnerable populations quickly . Quebec took the bold step of actually putting its vaccine distribution centres inside long-term care facilities . British Columbia moved the Pfizer vaccine from its distribution sites almost immediately into long-term care homes to inoculate residents and staff upon receiving its first doses . Yet Ontario initially decided against bringing it directly into long-term care homes . The province only did so more than three weeks after receiving its first shipment -- prioritizing health-care workers instead . Bogoch says provinces were told in December that the vaccine should n't be moved after being thawed and that clinics should administer it at the same location and that the province was in contact with Pfizer about the issue at the time . Chagla says more provinces would have followed Quebec 's model of distributing the vaccine from long-term care homes first and hospitals second if they had known the vaccine was stable at fridge temperatures . " It would have helped with decentralizing the vaccine rollout and it took a month or two before we could start doing that , " he said . " This could have very well started -- even for the high risk groups -- decentralizing it and really getting it into places where the vaccine is hard to reach . " A pharmacy technician prepares a dose of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine at a temporary clinic at the Woodbine racetrack and casino in northeast Toronto on May 5 . The change in storage temperature would also make the vaccine easier to transport outside Canada 's major urban centres . ( Evan Mitsui/CBC ) Temperature changes ' exciting ' for developing world While an adjustment to the length of time the Pfizer vaccine can be stored and the more manageable temperatures for distribution could give Canada more flexibility in its rollout , the global benefits could be even more significant . Alyson Kelvin , an assistant professor at Dalhousie University and virologist at the Canadian Center for Vaccinology and the Vaccine and Infectious Disease Organization in Saskatoon , says the change in recommendations are " exciting . " " It will have a global impact , especially in light of the recent problems plaguing AstraZeneca , " she said , referring to the rare but serious blood clots that can occur after that COVID-19 vaccine . " The increased stability will allow the Pfizer vaccine to be more easily accessible in remote locations across the world . " Chagla says it could also allow for the Pfizer vaccine to be transported more easily to countries experiencing devastating surges of COVID-19 , such as India , which recorded the highest number of deaths in a single day of any country on Tuesday . " From a global standpoint it 's huge ... you could really expand how you do a vaccine campaign globally , " he said . " As long as you can transport it to point X and then put it in refrigeration temperature you have a lot more options . " Bogoch says we could potentially see this vaccine transported on " the back of a motorcycle " or the " back of a lorry " in smaller clinics in developing nations . WATCH Distributing aid another hurdle in India 's COVID-19 crisis : " This really helps because you can mobilize this vaccine more readily in lower resource settings outside of bigger centres . I think that 's the key point , " Bogoch said . Kelvin says she hopes the potential change in storage conditions could even bring down the cost of the Pfizer vaccine since ultra-cold temperatures of up to -- 80 C may not be necessary for shipping . The Pfizer vaccine is estimated to cost about $19.50 US per dose in the United States , a price that Kelvin says is " astronomically " higher than the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine . It ranges from between $2 and $5 US per dose . Have questions about this story ? We 're answering as many as we can in the comments . <p> Surrey RCMP are asking the public for help locating Brother 's Keepers gang member Nassem Mohammed , who also has connections to the gang war playing out in the Lower Mainland . The 22-year-old is wanted on multiple warrants of being unlawfully at large , resisting/obstructing police , breach of a release order and driving while prohibited . " Naseem Mohammed is associated with the ongoing Lower Mainland gang conflict and has a history of involvement with drug trafficking , " police said in a statement . " Mohammed has also been a target of violence in the past . As such , the public should be aware that they may be at risk if associating with this individual . " Mohammed illegally entered the United States in January but police could not confirm if he has returned to Canada . He is described as a Somalian male , approximately five feet five inches tall with a slender build , black hair and brown eyes . Police say the violence between Lower Mainland gangs has led to 20 homicides and 20 attempted murders so far this year . A recent spate of gun killings have taken place in public spaces during daylight hours . The Vancouver police and the province 's gang squad have taken the rare step of releasing the names and photos of 14 men who could be the next targeted in the tit-for-tat gang war . The violent and public nature of the conflict poses significant risks to public safety , and police are warning people -- even friends and family -- to stay away from them . None of the men on the public warning list have outstanding warrants . Mohammed is considered armed and dangerous and should not be approached , say police . Anyone spotting him is asked to contact the Surrey RCMP at 604-599-0502 . Anonymous reports can be made to Crime Stoppers at 1-800-222-TIPS or www.solvecrime.ca . <p> BEIJING ( AP ) -- Israel 's Embassy in China is protesting what it describes as " blatant antisemitism " on a program run by the overseas channel of state broadcaster CCTV discussing the ongoing violence in Gaza and elsewhere . In a tweet , the embassy said " we have hoped that the times of the ' Jew 's controlling the world ' conspiracy theories were over , unfortunately antisemitism has shown its ugly face again . " " We are appalled to see blatant antisemitism expressed in an official Chinese media outlet , " the tweet said . On the Tuesday CGTN broadcast , host Zheng Junfeng questioned whether U.S. support for Israel was truly based on shared democratic values , saying " some people believe that U.S. pro-Israeli policy is traceable to the influence of wealthy Jews in the U.S. and the Jewish lobby on U.S. foreign policy makers . " " Jews dominate finance and and internet sectors , " Zheng says , speaking in English . " So do they have the powerful lobbies some say ? Possible . " Zheng then accused the U.S. -- China 's top geopolitical rival -- of using Israel as a " beachhead " in the Middle East and a as proxy in its campaign to defeat pan-Arabism . Spokesperson Erez Katz Volovelsky said Wednesday the embassy had nothing to add to its tweet and had so far received no reply from CGTN , which CCTV operates for foreign audiences , similar to Russia 's RT . There was no immediate comment from CCTV and Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said he was " not aware of the situation . " " China has repeatedly stated its position on the Palestine-Israel situation , " Zhao told reporters at a daily briefing . China has long been a strong backer of the Palestinian cause and in recent days the Foreign Ministry has castigated the U.S. for blocking a statement in the United Nations Security Council condemning the violence . Yet , since establishing formal diplomatic relations with Israel in 1992 , Beijing has nurtured close economic , technological and military ties , including the purchase of early model Israeli drones . Judaism is not one of China 's officially recognized religions and stereotypes about Jews as shrewd businesspeople and market manipulators are common among the Chinese public . The Associated Press <p> BEIRUT ( Reuters ) -Lebanon 's foreign minister said he had quit his post on Wednesday , after his comments in a television interview strained ties with traditional Gulf Arab allies and donors . Charbel Wehbe , a member of Lebanon 's caretaker government whose portfolio was taken over by Defence Minister Zeina Akar , suggested on Monday that Gulf states had supported the rise of Islamic State , among other disparaging comments . <p> Indigenous Services Minister Marc Miller says he does n't think enough is being done to support mental wellness in Canada 's Aboriginal communities . Miller says he has been in touch with the Shamattawa First Nation and has offered to connect mental-health specialists with the northern Manitoba community following a seven-year-old child 's suicide attempt . The attempt prompted Chief Eric Redhead to declare a state of emergency earlier this week and to call on the federal government for more help . Redhead 's own sister , a 32-year-old mother of four , killed herself earlier this month . Two crisis teams from Manitoba Indigenous organizations were planning to head to the remote community . Miller says urgent steps need to be taken to support the community now , but there must also be longer-term strategies . " The particular age of the youth in question is especially heartbreaking , " the minister said during a news conference in Ottawa on Wednesday . The community has reported an uptick in suicide attempts and mental-health crises during the pandemic , the chief said Tuesday . Redhead said health-care staff are exhausted , especially after the devastating effects of the COVID-19 pandemic 's second wave . Canadian Forces members were dispatched to Shamattawa in December at a time when about one-third of the community 's population of 1,300 had tested positive for the virus . Miller said a lack of culturally relevant mental-health services in many Indigenous communities has been an ongoing problem , but it 's been exacerbated by the pandemic . " It 's clear that we are , as a country , not dealing with mental health and suicide in a way that is yielding the results that we all would like to see . " All levels of government need to work on solutions that must also address housing , education and infrastructure gaps on First Nations , Miller said . Perry Bellegarde , national chief of the Assembly of First Nations , tweeted that Indigenous communities must have on-the-ground support , especially during the pandemic . " The impacts of COVID-19 have taken an emotional toll on many , and during a difficult time , I offer support to Shamattawa and anyone struggling , " Bellegarde said . This report by The Canadian Press was first published May 19 , 2021 . Kelly Geraldine Malone , The Canadian Press <p> Students in Nova Scotia will not return to their classrooms for the rest of the school year , the province said Wednesday as it announced 83 new cases of COVID-19 and two more deaths . Premier Iain Rankin told a briefing that children and teachers will continue online learning for the rest of the school year , and current lockdown restrictions in the province will last at least until June 9 . " To the students , I know that 's difficult that you wo n't be able to go back in person and see your friends , " he said . " To the parents , I want to thank them for staying at home and keeping their children at home and learning from home . And to our teachers , thank you for your hard work and patience . " Dr. Robert Strang , the province 's chief medical officer of health , said the upcoming Victoria Day long weekend will have to be a quiet one similar to last year . " The variants make this a very different and difficult situation right now , " he said . The Nova Scotia Teachers Union said Wednesday it supports the province 's decision to extend remote learning through the rest of the school year . " This was a difficult decision , which demonstrates a deep commitment on the part of Dr. Strang and Premier Rankin to the safety of students , teachers , school staff , and families , " union president Paul Wozney said in a statement . Provincial campgrounds closed Provincial park campgrounds are closed and private campgrounds can only be open for seasonal campers . No short-term camping is allowed at this time . People can go to their cottage or seasonal campsite outside their community , but only if they are staying there for the next few months . They can not go back and forth between these places and their primary residence . " That 's not very much to ask when many people are struggling for a lot more . We have people struggling for their lives in hospital , " Strang said during the briefing . Rankin said the provincial government hopes to have a reopening strategy to share soon , so people and organizations can plan their summer . Lifting of restrictions will be slow Strang noted it will likely follow the same slow trend as last spring to ensure there is not a resurgence of COVID-19 . The two deaths announced Wednesday occurred in the central and eastern zones . Both people were in their 60s . There have now been 74 deaths related to COVID-19 in Nova Scotia . The province also reported 164 recoveries , bringing the number of active cases to 1,262 . Nova Scotia health authority 's labs completed 7,324 tests on Tuesday . Of the 83 new cases , 59 are in the central zone , 19 in the eastern zone , three in the western zone and two in the northern zone . Community spread in Sydney The 19 cases in the eastern zone are all in the Cape Breton Regional Municipality . Public Health has been unable to find the origin of a number of those cases , indicating that there is community spread in Sydney . Strang said the majority of the Sydney cases are in the 20- to 30-year-old range which is " most concerning " since the province has n't seen this type of local transmission in other areas . The province has added new pop-up testing sites to Sydney this week , including at Centre 200 . One of the cases in the central zone involves a staff member at The Ivy Meadows . It is the second case involving a staff member at the long-term care facility in Beaver Bank . Most residents have been fully vaccinated with two doses of COVID-19 vaccine . Too early to ease restrictions , says Strang There are 101 people in hospital in Nova Scotia , including 20 in intensive care units . The median age of people hospitalized in the third wave is 57 for non-ICU , and 59 for people in ICU . Strang told CBC Radio 's Information Morning on Wednesday that numbers are still " nowhere near " where they need to be to start easing public health restrictions . He said one requirement for rolling back restrictions is greater vaccination . He 'd like to see 75 per cent of all Nova Scotians vaccinated . There has been strong vaccine uptake among Nova Scotians aged 60 and up , with more than 80 per cent vaccinated with at least one shot . ( Andrew Vaughan/The Canadian Press ) " I firmly believe we can meet that target , but it 's not just about vaccine , you also have to look at the disease epidemiology , " Strang said . " If our case rates come down substantively over the next few weeks , we do n't have to be at that 75 per cent target to start to open up restrictions . " If we 're going to be able to have a much less restricted summer we have to have the disease under control and have high vaccination rates . " Currently , about 40 per cent of eligible Nova Scotians have received at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine . In order to meet the 75 per cent target , Strang said 85 per cent of those eligible to get the shot will have to do so . COVID-19 vaccines are now approved for children starting at age 12 . Nova Scotians aged 30 and up can now book vaccine appointments , and earlier this week Rankin and Strang said they expected all eligible Nova Scotians to be able to book appointments by next week . Permanent residents get automatic approval During Wednesday 's briefing , Strang also addressed border restrictions and the safe check-in application system . He said starting Thursday morning , permanent residents will get automatic approval to enter Nova Scotia providing they present documented proof at the border , which could include an ID , driver 's licence or utility bill showing a permanent address . The system is also being broadened for rotational workers . Strang said one full application with the necessary documents will still be required , such as a letter from an employer . But moving forward , those workers will have a record on file so future applications can be approved faster . Increased N.B. border screening As of Wednesday , anyone travelling between New Brunswick and Nova Scotia at Sackville-Amherst and at Baie-Verte-Tidnish Road may notice increased screening , according to a New Brunswick government release . Travellers entering New Brunswick need an approved travel registration and any supporting documentation , though frequent travellers between the two provinces may be eligible for a special pass . Travel between both provinces remains restricted . Atlantic Canada case numbers MORE TOP STORIES <p> It may have won audiences in Europe , but Cyprus 's entry for the Eurovision song contest has raised hackles at home , scandalising the faithful for paying homage to the devil . A small group of people with a powerful loudspeaker system blaring Orthodox hymns protested peacefully outside Cyprus 's state broadcaster on Wednesday , saying the song promoted devil worship . Cyprus 's influential Orthodox Church had waded into the fray when the song was unveiled in February , calling for the tune to be withdrawn . 
@@52750701 <h> Jacob deGrom <h> Latest Stories <p> VICTORIA -- Children between the ages of 12 and 17 will get their COVID-19 vaccines at community clinics instead of schools based on feedback from families wanting to get immunized together , British Columbia 's provincial health officer says . Dr. Bonnie Henry said an estimated 310,000 children in that age group are eligible to be vaccinated , and clinic hours could be extended to make getting immunized easier . Henry said consultations with the education sector as well as parents who may have kids in different schools led to the decision to immunize youth at clinics , where public health staff are already working and ready to provide the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine , which has been approved for people aged 12 and up . " It takes a lot of resources to go into every single school in a very short period of time , " she said , adding the community plan would allow for more equitable access to vaccines , especially at some of the larger health authorities , where clinics are established and can quickly be ramped up to accommodate families . " We know that many young people have been negatively impacted by COVID-19 and by the pandemic and by the measures that we 've had to put in place . Now you , too , will have the opportunity to get vaccine , to get protected and to protect those around you . I know it has been tough . But there is a light ahead and it 's coming soon . " Teri Mooring , president of the B.C. Teachers ' Federation , said vaccination in some large schools with over 1,000 students would be more convenient and reduce barriers , especially in Fraser Health , where about half the province 's 12-to-18-year-olds live and school exposures have been the highest . " Some families work multiple jobs and so we 're concerned that some students wo n't have true access to vaccination , " she said . " Vaccinations already occur in schools , so that 's already an established process . " About 59 per cent of eligible people in B.C. have received their first dose of a vaccine and so-called circuit breaker measures will be lifted next week as case counts have gone down , Henry said . The province recorded 357 cases Thursday , the lowest since Feb. 15 , along with three more deaths , for a total of 1,661 fatalities from COVID-19 . Premier John Horgan urged residents to continue abiding by the rules banning indoor dining and gatherings as well as limiting travel until midnight on Monday , saying some restrictions will be eased on Tuesday as part of a " slow , methodical approach " for everyone 's benefit , including those yearning to gather at their place of worship . " I really encourage people to please , please , please follow the rules . Do n't look for loopholes , do n't try and get around things . Enjoy a good weekend and then , of course , next week we 'll be plotting our way forward together , " Horgan said . " We 're confident that come July we 're going to be in a much better place . But on Tuesday , we 'll lay out that road map . I think it 'll be positively received by the vast majority of British Columbians and I 'm confident they can wait a few more days . " Health Minister Adrian Dix said that while the number of people in hospital has decreased to 331 , with 113 of them in intensive care , the health-care system continues to face challenges . " We are continuing to support our health-care staff by postponing non-urgent surgeries in two of our major health authorities , Fraser Health and Vancouver Coastal Health . " However , he said a total of 7,015 surgeries , most of them scheduled , were completed between May 3 and 9 , for " a significant achievement in a pandemic , " underscoring the need to continue following public health orders for the sake of health-care workers on the front lines . -- By Camille Bains in Vancouver This report by The Canadian Press was first published May 20 , 2021 . The Canadian Press <p> The Group of Seven is playing a " dangerous game " by making aggressive and baseless criticism of the Kremlin because it pushes Russia closer to China , Russia 's ambassador to London Andrei Kelin told Reuters on Thursday . G7 foreign ministers this month scolded both China and Russia , casting the Kremlin as malicious and Beijing as a bully , but beyond words there were few concrete steps aside from expressing support for Taiwan and Ukraine . The G7 , in a 12,400-word communique , said Russia was a destabilising influence on the world because of its 2014 annexation of Crimea , its build up on Ukraine 's border and its meddling in the internal affairs of other countries . <p> Toula Zouzoulas , 44 , who has Down syndrome , has spent the last year terrified of catching COVID-19 , according to her sister Olga Zouzoulas . Now , Toula is on a ventilator , fighting for her life in the ICU of Montfort Hospital in Ottawa after testing positive . Zouzoulas said she feels all this could have been avoided if her sister had been vaccinated , arguing that Toula and others with Down syndrome should have qualified sooner . Under Ontario 's vaccine rollout program , those with intellectual or developmental disabilities are considered high-risk under Phase 2 , but did n't become eligible until May 3 -- too late for Toula who contracted COVID-19 a week earlier . " The government did n't see them as the highest risk and they failed . They failed my sister , " said Zouzoulas . " She deserves to be protected ... and she was n't . " Toula lives in a COVID-19 hotspot in Ottawa with her elderly parents , one of whom is considered high-risk and requires home care services . The parents qualified for a vaccine in March , as did Olga , who is her mother 's caregiver . But Toula had to wait . WATCH Sister says multiple attempts to vaccinate Toula failed : Repeatedly denied Given these circumstances and the fact that Toula has Down syndrome , Zouzoulas tried repeatedly to have her vaccinated as early as possible but said every request was denied by Ottawa Public Health ( OPH ) , who told her Toula did n't yet qualify . In mid-April , Toula developed a stomach ulcer that required surgery . Complications after the surgery kept her in hospital longer . Then in late April , Toula tested positive for COVID-19 while in hospital and is now in the ICU on a ventilator . " It 's horrible . She should not be in this situation . She needs to be home , " Zouzoulas said . In Ontario , people with Down syndrome were put in an at-risk category that gave them vaccine access in Phase 2 , but that still left Toula waiting until May . ( Jean Delise/CBC ) People with Down syndrome have ' increased risk for dying ' There have been campaigns across Canada , from both organizations and families , to get people with Down syndrome vaccinated sooner . Yona Lunsky , professor at the University of Toronto , who specializes in developmental disabilities and health care , says it is a good thing that Ontario named people with Down syndrome and other developmental disabilities as a priority -- even if vaccinations are still too late for some . Not every province in the country has done so . " I think the challenge with Phase 2 is that there were so many different groups to be included , " Lunksy said . " Certainly the research shows that people with Down syndrome , regardless of where they live , if they get exposed to COVID , then it 's harder for them to fight that infection and others and they 're at increased risk for dying . " Lunsky said that alone is " a really good reason for us to take good preventative action , to support them as best we can to stop them from getting ill and to treat them as quickly as possible . " The key , according to Lunsky , is not just making people with developmental disabilities a priority group for vaccination , but " actually doing everything you can to get the needle into people 's arms . " ' They need to be protected ' OPH said it could n't comment on any particular case , but that it 's " obligated to follow " the order of vaccination priority laid out by the province . In a statement , it said only " in select , rare situations where the provincial guidance is not explicit or not yet determined " does the city 's taskforce provide interpretation or recommendations on eligible populations . Ontario 's Ministry of Health has not replied to a request for comment from CBC News . Zouzoulas is still left wanting answers -- and a change if anything like this should ever happen again in the future . " The Down syndrome population , they ca n't be put in the queue where they were this time and they need to be protected .... She may not matter to them , but she matters to us . " <p> The conservative and Greens candidates to succeed German Chancellor Angela Merkel after September 's federal election clashed on Thursday on the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline from Russia , and on whether Germany should host U.S nuclear weapons . In their first debate , focused on foreign and security policy , Armin Laschet , from Merkel 's conservative alliance , welcomed a decision by the U.S. administration this week to waive sanctions on Nord Stream 2 AG and its chief executive . <p> BEIRUT ( AP ) -- Groups of angry Lebanese on Thursday beat up Syrian expatriates and refugees heading to the Syrian Embassy in Beirut and pelted their cars and buses with stones and sticks , outraged over what they perceive as an organized vote for President Bashar Assad . Meanwhile , some Syrian refugees reported being pressured to cast their ballot with threats of physical violence or confiscation of documentation that could lead to loss of refugee status , the U.N . refugee agency said . Assad is running for a fourth seven-year term -- facing symbolic competition from two other candidates -- in a vote all but guarantees to bring him back as president . The Syrian opposition , as well as Western and some Arab countries see it as a sham designed to give Assad a new mandate with a veneer of legitimacy . It also comes in violation of U.N . resolutions that call for a new constitution before a presidential vote . The in-country vote is expected next week . In Lebanon , scattered mobs , mostly from the Christian right-wing Lebanese Forces group , intercepted cars and buses plastered with pictures of Assad and carrying Syrian voters at intersections in and around Beirut and in the eastern Bekaa region . The attackers pelted them with rocks and smashed windows with sticks . On the highway north of Beirut , one attacker poked a wooden stick inside a car , while others smashed its windshield . In another attack , a Lebanese driver ran over a group of Syrians , hitting one man . There were no official reports on how many were injured . " If they want to vote , they can go home and vote there , " said Fadi Nader , a Lebanese protester . " Since they love Bashar Assad , why do n't they go home ? " Lebanese soldiers stood guard as hundreds of Syrians queued outside their embassy in Yarze , east of Beirut , to cast their ballots . Some Syrians shouted slogans in support of Assad as they waited . " I came here to elect President Bashar Assad . This is a national duty , " said Ramzi Ahmad , a native of the central Syrian province of Homs . Lebanon is home to over 1 million Syrians , the country hosting the largest number of refugees per capita . Their presence -- nearly one Syrian for every four Lebanese -- has weighed heavily on Lebanon 's infrastructure and resources , particularly as the small country reels under an unprecedented economic crisis . Calls for Syrians to go home have also been a widely politicized issue among Lebanese , deeply divided over the 10-year conflict in Syria , some supporting Assad and others backing his opposition . The violence came a day after Samir Geagea , the head of the Lebanese Forces group , called for for those who vote for Assad to go back home since they are clearly not fearful of his government . Even before the conflict , Syria 's role in Lebanon was deeply divisive . Syrian troops -- deployed in Lebanon in 1976 , shortly after the civil war broke out -- withdrew in 2005 following a U.N . resolution , after a 29-year domination of Lebanese politics . It 's a dilemma for Syrians living in Lebanon . Many say they are not ready to return home because of fear of prosecution in the absence of a peace deal . The U.N. , the EU and the U.S. say conditions are not ripe for the return of millions of refugees . Also on Thursday , UNHCR said it received reports of intimidation and pressure , according to Lisa Abou Khaled , a spokesperson for the agency , adding that the agency was looking into it " to ensure that refugees are free to decide whether or not to vote . " Assad has been in power since 2000 when he took over from his father , Hafez , who ruled for 30 years . In the 10-year conflict , Assad has been supported by Iran and Russia . While fighting has subsided in recent years , Syria remains torn . Thousands of foreign troops are based in different parts of the country . The elections are not taking place in at least four provinces under the control of the opposition or Syrian Kurdish forces , depriving nearly 8 million Syrians of a vote . The Biden administration has said it will not recognize the result of Syria 's presidential election . France and Germany banned any voting at Syrian missions in their country , with a French Foreign Ministry official saying the elections are " null and void " and there is no point in holding them . Syria has been engulfed in civil war since 2011 , when Arab Spring-inspired protests against the Assad family rule turned into an armed insurgency in response to a brutal military crackdown . Around half a million people have been killed and half the country 's population has been displaced . Fadi Tawil , The Associated Press <p> India 's export ban on COVID-19 shots risks dragging the battle against the pandemic " back to square one " unless wealthy nations step in to plug a gaping hole in the COVAX global vaccine-sharing scheme , health specialists said on Thursday . COVAX , which is critical for poorer countries , relies on AstraZeneca shots made by the Serum Institute of India , the world 's biggest maker of vaccines . It was already around 100 million doses short of where it had planned to be when India halted exports a month ago amid a surge in infections there . <p> The University of Windsor failed to properly resolve a student 's sexual assault complaint through a process she says left her feeling powerless and scared , an Ontario court has ruled . A university adjudicator unlawfully delegated her appeal to a criminal court instead of issuing a decision under its own campus policies , a divisional court panel of judges said in a decision released in April . The court set aside the university 's decision , telling the school to revisit the student 's complaint against a male student , using a different adjudicator . Since the court 's ruling , the school has agreed to re-adjudicate the case . The student , who is protected by a publication ban , spoke exclusively to CBC Windsor , saying she 's relieved by the panel 's decision . However , she calls her experience with the university " terrifying . " " I felt like my dignity was already stolen and whatever power I had left in me they took that away from me as well , " says the student , who is referred to as Jane Doe . Jane Doe said she did not feel safe returning to campus after filing her complaint . ( Chris Ensing/CBC News ) The panel of judges also raised concerns with the lead investigator 's focus on how she " would expect a sexual assault complainant to act " during the assault . The investigator failed to include in her report the student 's position that she " did not consent and had expressed her lack of consent at several points verbally or by her actions . " How the complaint process unfolded According to the court , Doe first filed a complaint with the university on Jan. 13 , 2020 , saying another student had " penetrated her without consent " in the fall of 2019 . The university 's associate vice-president of student experience ( AVPSE ) was tasked with investigating , and six months later , according to the court , " concluded , on a balance of probabilities , that the respondent did not sexually assault Ms. Doe . " Doe appealed , saying the AVPSE made a " serious procedural error " in a decision that was " clearly unreasonable or unsupportable on the evidence , " the judges said . The matter was passed on to an adjudicator at the school who said the initial investigation " veered into the dangerous territory of assessing how an ordinary victim might react or how a complainant ought to have reacted . " The AVPSE , in its initial decision , relied heavily on that investigation 's findings . Still , the adjudicator , who was not named in the decision , took no action and said the University of Windsor would wait for the outcome of a criminal trial . Failing a criminal conviction , the appeal would be dismissed , the adjudicator said . In their decision , the divisional court judges called this abdication of decision-making both unreasonable and unlawful . ' Error after error ' : student 's lawyer " I think what we saw here was the university shirking its responsibility under the law to properly address and adjudicate this allegation of sexual assault . Instead what they tried to do was foist this decision on to criminal court , which was completely improper , " said Doe 's lawyer , Gregory Ko , a partner at the Toronto firm Kastner Lam . " You have error after error that has resulted in an incredibly lengthy and painful process for Jane Doe that 's lasted now 16 months , " said Ko . Doe 's lawyer , Gregory Ko , says the court 's decision documents the University of Windsor 's errors in handling her sexual assault complaint . ( Chris Ensing/CBC ) In agreeing to re-adjudicate the student 's complaint , the University of Windsor is also reviewing its sexual misconduct policies and procedures . " This includes the incorporation of enhanced training for internal and external investigators as it relates to the university 's Policy on Sexual Misconduct , " the school said in a statement . Experts in sex assault prevention , policy weigh in Experts in sexual assault prevention and policy agree more training is needed to deal with campus complaints . Barb MacQuarrie led a team of researchers at London 's Western University who developed a program for people dealing with sexual assault cases at Ontario campuses . She said what Doe went through is " completely unfair . " WATCH An expert in sexual violence prevention speaks on how U of W can improve : " That is dragging a survivor through a legal process that she should n't have to go through . No survivor of any gender should ever have to go through that kind of extreme effort just to have procedural justice . " MacQuarrie worries about the ripple effect of Doe 's experience . " There 's no doubt that these kinds of experiences deter other people from coming forward . Survivors will be paying attention to this whole process . " She said while the University of Windsor is considered a leader for its work on sexual assault prevention on campus , this decision shows systemic issues still need to be addressed . Dusty Johnstone , a sexual assault prevention officer who was not involved directly in Doe 's case , says people need to know how to respond when someone tells them about a sexual assault . ( Stacey Janzer/CBC ) Dusty Johnstone , the sexual misconduct response and prevention officer at the University of Windsor , said she was not involved in the investigation or decisions made in relation to Doe 's complaint . However , she said : " I think that it 's an opportunity for us to look carefully at the procedures and how we , I think , fail to meet the standard that we have outlined in our documents , and to really try to align our policy and our procedures as we move forward . " Johnstone stressed that sexual assault complaints needed to be handled in a timely manner , something the court makes clear in its decision . Complaint process ' oppressive ' says Doe Doe said she wants voices like hers to be heard when universities make policy decisions involving sexual misconduct and the complaint process . She said it was difficult to come forward because of fears she would n't be believed . " This process requires a lot of courage and trust . I expect the university to handle these cases seriously and be able to eliminate second victimization . The process that the university has , it 's basically oppressive to these individuals . It oppresses them instead of empowering them . " A criminal case is expected to begin this summer . The male student accused in the sexual assault did not enter any evidence during the process . His lawyer did not respond to a request for comment . <p> BARCELONA , Spain ( AP ) -- Two of Spain 's most modest stadiums are set to offer scenes of joy and sorrow on Saturday . Atl ? tico Madrid can ensure it clinches its first Spanish league title in seven years with a win at Valladolid , while Lionel Messi and Ronald Koeman could participate in their last game for Barcelona when they visit the already relegated Eibar . Atl ? tico enters the final round of the competition with a two-point lead over defending champion Real Madrid . If Diego Simeone 's side fails to win at Valladolid , Madrid can retain its title by beating Villarreal . Madrid holds the tiebreaker advantage with Atl ? tico in case they finish level on points . In a provincial city 190 kilometers ( 118 miles ) north of Madrid , Valladolid needs a victory at its Jos ? Zorrilla Stadium to have a chance of avoiding relegation . Elche and Huesca are also fighting with Valladolid to not go down , with two of the three clubs destined for the drop . For Valladolid defender Kiki Olivas , his team 's desperation could be what it needs to pull off the upset . " We still have a chance and that is why we must fight until the end , " Olivas said . " We have to forget everything else and face the match with the belief that we can pull it off regardless of the difficulty . Atl ? tico Madrid has something important to play for , but this is our stadium and we have more at stake than they do . " Olivas will be tasked with helping defend Luis Su ? rez , whose late goal last weekend secured a 2-1 comeback win over Osasuna that kept Atl ? tico at the top of the standings and in control of its fate . Atl ? tico will face the finale without its most-used center back , Stefan Savic , who will serve a one-game suspension for accumulation of yellow cards . Jos ? Gim ? nez , who has been hit by injuries and a bout with COVID-19 this season , will likely take his place . Besides needing Valladolid to at least draw with Atl ? tico , Madrid must beat a Villarreal side that has played well all season but may be looking ahead to an even more important game . Villarreal will face Manchester United in the Europa League final on Wednesday in Gdansk , Poland , aiming to win the first major title in club history . If it beats the English powerhouse , it will also qualify for the Champions League . In the Spanish league , Villarreal is currently in seventh place , a spot that earns a berth for next season 's new Europa Conference League . But a win over Madrid could allow it to move up into the Europa League spots . Real Sociedad and Real Betis are hoping to lock up those berths with finishes in fifth- and sixth-place with respective wins at Osasuna and Celta Vigo . " Our most important game is always the next one up , " Villarreal coach Unai Emery said . " The Spanish league has always been our focus and qualifying for European competition for the coming season our main goal . " Barcelona bowed out of the title fight last round . Its match at Eibar 's Ipur ? a Stadium will likely be a sad final appearance for its coach and maybe even its greatest player of all time . The days of Koeman appear to be numbered after his team 's poor finish and with president Joan Laporta pledging that he will overhaul the team this offseason . It could also be the last time that Messi plays for Barcelona . The 33-year-old Argentina forward has given no indication what his plans are when his contract expires on June 30 . The match will be number 779 for Messi in a Barcelona shirt . Barcelona 's only interest in the outcome is maintaining third place , which Sevilla could snatch from the Catalan club with a victory over Alav ? s . So , a two-decade-long partnership that has taken Messi and Barcelona to the heights of world soccer could finish at a tiny stadium in northern Spain , with practically nothing to play for , and nobody to cheer . More AP soccer : https : //apnews.com/hub/soccer and https : //twitter.com/APSports Joseph Wilson , The Associated Press <p> OTTAWA -- Canada 's vaccination effort against COVID-19 has pulled even with the United States in one of the key markers in the race to herd immunity and is closing in fast on a status as one of the top 10 most vaccinated countries in the world . Globally Canada now sits in the top 15 among nations for the share of the population with at least one dose of vaccine -- a marked change from the 42nd place it held in early March . But any celebration of the achievement is muted for some health professionals who see Canada pulling ahead at the expense of much of the world . As of Thursday morning Canada had given at least one dose to 18.1 million people , about 47.6 per cent of the population , tying the United States . Canada will pull into the lead by day 's end , now vaccinating people 1.8 times faster than the U.S. Canada is still well behind on second doses -- down in about 64th place globally with only four per cent of the population fully vaccinated now . The U.S. has fully vaccinated 37.5 per cent . University of Calgary economist Trevor Tombe said Canada 's demand continues to be very strong , boding well for the goal to get at least 75 per cent of the population vaccinated . " Canada is in this situation where our pace of vaccination is accelerating , past the point where it started to sharply decelerate in the United States , " he said . Tombe said Canada 's pace is now among the fastest in the world , and is on track to go ahead of Chile and Hungary next week , the United Kingdom in early June and Israel before Canada Day . Canada will get half the population vaccinated with one dose this weekend , and to the magic 75 per cent of people over 12 by the third week of June . That 's the number where health officials say restrictions can start to gradually be lifted . Procurement Minister Anita Anand seems loathe to do any celebratory dance about the milestones , repeating over and over that her focus is only on keeping the pressure on vaccine suppliers to fulfil their contracts in a world where demand is well higher than the available supply . " I still feel the responsibility weighing very heavily on my shoulders to ensure that we have enough vaccine for all Canadians who want it to be vaccinated , " she said . Still , Anand said it " does feel a little surreal " to see so many Canadians now vaccinated . Canada 's inability to produce COVID-19 vaccines at home has been a sore spot for the government 's critics , and the biggest barrier to Canada 's vaccine efforts at the start . NDP Leader Jagmeet Singh said the latest numbers are " encouraging " but the vaccine plan is still a " failure " by the government . " From the beginning , the Liberals made some really key mistakes , " he said . " They did n't create the capacity to produce the vaccine in Canada . " Conservative health critic Michelle Rempel Garner has been one of the loudest critics of the federal vaccine procurement and said there are still a lot of issues to overcome . Communications to Canadians about what vaccine to get , the safety issues that arose around the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine and blood clots and then confusing messaging about who should get that vaccine have been harmful , said Rempel Garner . People now want to know when they 'll get their second dose , what kind of dose it will be , and when they can start having normal lives again , information that is not forthcoming from Ottawa , she said . " In spite of all these communication errors , and in spite of the lack of direction on what vaccinated persons can do , I am encouraged by the fact we 're seeing an uptake in vaccinations , " she said . " I think that 's a very good sign . " Dr. Srinivas Murthy , a critical care pediatric specialist in Vancouver with a research focus on pandemic preparedness , said he gives Canada 's vaccine effort a D-minus , but not because Canadians are n't getting vaccinated fast enough . It 's because Canada is vaccinating its own and leaving much of the world to wait months , if not years to do so themselves . He said his grade it would be an F if Canada had n't donated $220 million to help the global-vaccine sharing alliance known as COVAX . The idea of COVAX was that the world would help vaccinate itself as a whole , pooling vaccines for an equitable global distribution . But Canada donated to COVAX and also signed private deals to get almost 10 doses of vaccine for every Canadian . Last week , Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus , director general of the World Health Organization , urged wealthy countries to delay vaccinating their youngest -- and least vulnerable citizens -- and send doses to help vaccinate vulnerable and high-risk workers in low-income countries . Canada is already vaccinating kids as young as 12 in many provinces . Murthy said the political pressure to keep up with the U.S. or the U.K. pushed Canada to abandon any pretence that it would be a good global citizen on vaccines . " That impatience to get Canadians vaccinated ... I think it 's led to where we are now where politicians felt like they had to steal all the doses from around the world so that they can satisfy those Canadians , " he said . " When really what they should have done is shown leadership from the very beginning . " Murthy said it 's not too late for Canada to step up and start donating doses today . Canada has said it will donate doses eventually but has provided no timeline of when or how many . Globally , 723 million people have been vaccinated so far , but only three per cent of them live in Africa , and nine per cent in South America , which together account for one-quarter of the world 's population . Conversely Europe and North America , which account for less than one-fifth of the global population , are home to 56 per cent of the people vaccinated to date . This report by The Canadian Press was first published May 20 , 2021 . Mia Rabson , The Canadian Press <p> At first glance , the Israeli city of Lod in central Israel seems like it 's just shut down for a siesta . The weather is hot , the shops are shuttered and even the call to prayer from a nearby mosque seems ready for a nap . But the husk of a burnt-out car sits on one street in the centre of town , and there are scorch marks on a synagogue just around the corner from it . An unusually large number of Israeli police officers are stationed on mostly empty streets . Lod has been under a state of emergency since last week , when a bout of vicious and unprecedented inter-communal violence broke out between Jewish and Arab Israelis . Suliman Zabarqa is confronting some of the officers leaning against the walls outside his restaurant , also shuttered . He 's asking why they stood by when Jewish rioters burned his property . A Palestinian citizen of Israel , Zabarqa says the police did n't act the way they should have , allowing hard-line Israeli nationalists " from outside Lod " to take the law into their own hands . Neighbours now frightened of each other The rioting started after Israeli police broke up a demonstration organized by Palestinian Arab Israelis at the start of fighting between Israel and Palestinian militants in Gaza that began more than a week ago . A man named Musa Hassuna was shot and killed on May 10 , reportedly by a Jewish man . The next day , Yigal Yehoshua , a Jewish man , was hit in the head by a brick and attacked by Arab youths , according to reports . He died on Monday of his injuries . The anger was out of the bottle . Five synagogues were set on fire while Arab Israelis reported firebomb attacks on their homes . Mobs took over the streets , and the unrest quickly spread to other mixed cities in Israel . A Jewish settler and a Palestinian protester take pictures of each other with their phones on May 5 amid ongoing tension over a land-ownership dispute in the Sheikh Jarrah neighbourhood of occupied East Jerusalem . Settlers want to evict Palestinian families , claiming the land is theirs . ( Ammar Awad/Reuters ) Now , people who once called each other neighbour are frightened of each other . " I 'm scared for our lives . I have two kids , and I 'm unarmed , " said Tamer Nafar , standing on the edge of a plaza known as the " Triangle of Religions " in Hebrew . " Look how beautiful it is , " he said . " You have a mosque , you have a church , and you have a synagogue . " Nafar is a well-known Palestinian rapper , born in Lod . He 's also an activist who says the anger that recently boiled over onto the streets among Arab Israelis is born of decades of racism and discrimination . Tamer Nafar , a well-known Palestinian rapper who was born in Lod , says the anger that recently boiled over onto the streets among Arab Israelis is born of decades of racism and discrimination . ( Stephanie Jenzer/CBC ) " I mean , Israel does n't consider me Israeli . The national anthem says land for the Jews , ignoring the Muslims , " he said . " The things we are going through here , from housing , from demolishing houses , the media only sees it when it escalates , and we 've been trying to create a dialogue for years . " On the second day of rioting , Nafar says , he and his wife witnessed armed Jewish hardliners arriving on the scene . " So , I call the cops because I 'm a f--kin ' taxpayer , and they take my money every week . " He says the police eventually hung up on him . Arrival of settlers has changed city 's character Palestinian Arabs make up about 20 per cent of Israel 's population and 30 per cent of Lod 's . But in recent years , there 's been an addition to the mix in Lod in the form of hardline nationalist and religious settlers moving to the city , part of the Garin Torani movement . " The main strategy was to establish settlements in the mixed cities , " said Amnon Be'eri-Sulitzeanu of the Abraham Initiatives , an Israeli think-tank promoting equality for Jewish and Palestinian Arab citizens . Israeli paramilitary border police detain Jewish settlers during clashes between Israeli Arabs , Jews and police in Lod on May 12 . ( Heidi Levine/The Associated Press ) " To Judaize those places where there is more Arab presence or there is ongoing conflict between the communities or there is a need to demonstrate Jewish sovereignty or to reclaim , if you like , the area , " he said . The settlers ' arrival has slowly changed the character of some parts of the city , and when the rioting broke out in Lod , Be'eri-Sulitzeanu says that reinforcements were called in from Israeli settlements in the West Bank . Around the corner from the Triangle of Religions , cars pull up to a large yeshiva still bearing the scars of last week 's riots . A yeshiva , where Jewish students study traditional religious texts , bears the scars of the violence in Lod . ( Jean-Fran ? ois Bisson/CBC ) Young men wearing the uniform of nationalist religious Jews -- knitted kippas and long beards and earlocks -- are arriving for a meeting of volunteers . They 're setting up a sort of neighbourhood watch group to protect the property of Jewish families who fled during the unrest . Police stand guard outside , and blocks of shabby-looking apartment buildings stand opposite , Israeli flags hanging out of some of the windows . Arab women carry groceries into the building and up the stairs . " We 're standing in front of a building where two Jewish families and four , six or seven Arab families have been living together for the past 10 years , " said Ayelet Wadler , a physicist and mother of six who lives a few blocks away . " They have been helping each other change tires , carry groceries . And on Tuesday night , on Monday night , suddenly they 've had their neighbours who have been living with them for 10 years point out to rioters , ' Here , this is theirs , this is a Jewish car . Burn it . ' " Ayelet Wadler , a physicist and mother of six who has lived in Lod for 15 years , says she 's distressed that a number of Jewish families who lived nearby did n't feel safe enough to stay in their homes because of the unrest , and she blames Arab Israelis . ( Jean-Fran ? ois Bisson/CBC ) Wadler has lived in Lod for 15 years . She says she believes Arab Israelis are the ones responsible for what happened and is happy to see the men across the street gathering , some of whom stare at bystanders and look menacing . " I do n't see vigilantes , " she said . " I see people defending the house . " Wadler says she is extremely distressed that a number of Jewish families did n't feel safe enough to remain in their own homes . " They were refugees in their own country . That is inconceivable . That 's something that can not happen . " ' They are not going away , and we are not going away ' Her failure to connect her comments to the history of her fellow Palestinian citizens speaks volumes about the challenges of reconciliation and understanding in the country . Palestinians on both sides of the green line between Israel and the occupied territories refer to the creation of the Israeli state in 1948 as al Nakba , the catastrophe . Hundreds of thousands of Palestinians either fled or were forced to flee Israeli troops in the war that came with it . WATCH Ongoing conflict amplifies tensions in Israel 's mixed cities : Be'eri-Sulitzeanu says many Jewish Israelis simply do n't know the history . " They do n't know that within Israel proper , about a fifth of the Arab population within Israel are internal refugees as well , including most of the Arabs who live in Lod . They themselves are refugees because they arrive in Lod after ' 48 from destroyed villages throughout Israel . " Haha Nakib looks at one of the several vandalized graves in a Muslim cemetery in Lod on May 14 , as fighting between Israel and Palestinian militants in Gaza intensifies . ( Heidi Levine/The Associated Press ) By the same token , many Palestinian Arab Israelis do not understand the heart-stopping shudder that many Jewish people will have felt at the mention of pogrom-like attacks against Jews . " Most Arab Israelis do n't understand the connotation and what I call the pain baggage that we Jews are carrying on our back , " Be'eri-Sulitzeanu said . " They are simply not aware of it . " Torah scrolls , Jewish holy scriptures , are removed on May 12 from a synagogue that was torched during violent confrontations in Lod between Arab-Israeli demonstrators and police . ( Ronen Zvulun/Reuters ) It 's hard to imagine how the city will move forward . Be'eri-Sulitzeanu says the Arab-Israeli community 's problem is not with the Jewish community in Lod but with the national religious settlers who have infiltrated it . But they appear increasingly entrenched , a settlement within an Israeli city . Suliman Zabarqa is convinced it comes down to the local leadership , a mayor that serves only the interests of the Jewish community . " I live in the state of Israel , and I have rights as any Israeli . But the state does n't provide me with them . I hope the mayor of Lod will treat everyone in the same way . I hope he pays attention to the Arab sector in this town . " Suliman Zabarqa is a Palestinian citizen of Israel who owns a restaurant in Lod and says Jewish rioters burned his property . He says he feels his rights are n't respected , and he hopes the city 's mayor ' will treat everyone in the same way . ' ( Stephanie Jenzer/CBC ) Tamer Nafar says that 's a symptom of a much deeper problem . " When the dialogue between us is ' This is my country , the land for the Jews , not for you , ' the whole dialogue has the colour of being superior , " he said . " They need to understand that co-existence needs two sides to exist . They are not going away , and we are not going away . " <p> Premier Fran ? ois Legault was visibly upbeat on Tuesday -- more than he has been in a while -- as he laid out a timeline for the province 's reopening . And why would n't he be ? After imposing a curfew on much of the province since January , shutting down schools in some regions and keeping restaurants , bars and gyms closed , Quebec has become the first province to release a full-fledged plan with dates to loosen restrictions . ( Saskatchewan earlier released a roadmap tied to vaccination rates , with no firm timeline , and Ontario was set to announce theirs Thursday afternoon . ) The first step in Quebec 's plan , starting May 28 , is to lift the curfew where it still exists , including Montreal , and allow outdoor gatherings on private property and sit-down service on restaurant patios . On May 29 , the province will also be the first to allow fans back to an NHL arena -- with 2,500 permitted at the Bell Centre for Game 6 of the Leafs-Canadiens playoffs series ( if the Habs have n't already won ) . If all goes well , gyms and indoor dining will reopen a few days later , on May 31 . By the middle of June , Legault said most regions will be out of the so-called red and orange levels of restrictions , and at the yellow level , which means people from two different households can gather indoors and bars can reopen . There are , however , notes of caution about Quebec 's plan , sounded by experts and even Montreal 's own public health director , who has helped the city so far avoid a third wave . Quebec Premier Fran ? ois Legault was all smiles when he announced the gradual lifting of measures this summer and congratulated residents for following the rules . ( Jacques Boissinot/The Canadian Press ) Dates vs. vaccination rates Quebec has been subject to some of the strictest measures in the country and , clearly , the timeline provided a much-needed sense of hope to a weary public . There 's some trepidation too . " It 's a move in the right direction , " said Johnny Zatylnyhalo , out for a bike ride on the Lachine Canal on Wednesday . " I think we just have to take it step by step . " In general , Quebec is headed in the right direction , with daily cases , hospitalizations and deaths all on the decline , and the latest projections from Quebec 's health research institute , the INESSS , suggest that trend will continue . It 's a remarkable turnaround for the province that has had the most deaths per capita in the country . In the days and weeks leading up to the announcement , Legault said he favoured Saskatchewan 's approach , where the lifting of measures is tied to the rate of vaccination . But in the end , Quebec 's roadmap is a date-based timeline , with the expectation that the vaccination rate and an improving situation in hospitals will allow measures to be gradually lifted . ( Quebec Ministry of Health ) Dr. Matthew Oughton , an infectious diseases specialist at Montreal 's Jewish General Hospital , said there are clear drawbacks to that choice . " I think we 've all seen over the course of this pandemic enough instances where there have been unexpected twists and turns , " he said . " All of a sudden there 's a shortage of a vaccine . All of a sudden there 's an outbreak in one area of a particularly transmissible variant . " Laying out a clear timeline has obvious benefits : it will allow for the province 's long-suffering owners of restaurants , bars , gyms and other businesses to make preparations and hire back staff , and for the public to make plans for the summer . ( The restaurants had actually hoped for more warning ) . But , Oughton said , " once you commit yourself to a hard date , if you have to change , then you 're going to get people who will come back to you and say , ' Well , you said , ' and that makes it a little bit more difficult . " The advantage of Saskatchewan 's performance-tied reopening , he said , is that it serves as motivation to the public . " It 's sort of a way to incentivize , before we reach those levels , to continue to follow the measures in place and to continue to go get vaccinated , " he said . Kim Lavoie , Canada Research Chair of behavioural medicine at Universit ? du Qu ? bec ? Montr ? al , worries that delaying the planned reopening would be difficult if there is indeed a setback . Quebec was already forced to tighten back restrictions in much of the province earlier this year after a spike in cases . " That has an impact not only on business and everybody , but also psychologically , " Lavoie said . " So there 's that risk tying it to a certain date and then having to pull back , right ? " A word of caution from Montreal Quebec 's vaccination rate is climbing quickly ; 61 per cent of adults have received a dose of vaccine and another 14 per cent have an appointment booked . But the province has n't begun to vaccinate teens , and only three per cent of the population has received two doses . The province made the decision early to delay the second dose and send vaccines from Montreal to Quebec City , which had a spike in cases earlier this year . Those decisions paid off , but Montreal is now lagging behind other parts of the province in terms of its vaccination rate . On Wednesday , Dr. Myl ? ne Drouin , Montreal 's public health director , appeared uncomfortable with the idea of tying the reopening to dates , rather than the situation on the ground . Although Montreal has been able to avoid a third wave , she noted the city is still considered a red zone , at maximum alert for restrictions . " I 've always said that I do n't put dates on things , but I am confident that we will , in the coming weeks , be able to reduce the rate of infection and stabilize it , " she told Radio-Canada 's Tout un matin . " As soon as we allow indoor events , there is a risk . We increase contacts . We ca n't do the yo-yo in reopening , so we 'll have to be fairly careful . " WATCH Quebec will start to lift restrictions later this month : Later in the day , Health Minister Christian Dub ? said the province is comfortable with its end-of-month target . Dub ? said he 's confident Montreal will see the rate of infection decrease . " The chances are really high and that 's why we presented the plan the way we did , and the premier insisted that we were able to respect the dates . But we have to continue to do the same work that has been done by Quebecers , " he said . Given the huge influx of vaccines , Dub ? also said appointments for second doses will be moved up once the first round of vaccinations is complete . " If we continue like this , we should have really good news at the end of May . " But even he sounded a note of caution . " There are always things that can happen . We 've seen it with this pandemic , in the last year , there can always be surprises . " <p> Lucas MacDonald usually pulls big blue fin tuna out of the water off the shores of North Lake , P.E.I. , but about three years ago he tossed a bottle in the ocean with a message inside . " We were just out tuna fishing and it was kind of a slow day and we decided it 'd be just something to just kill time . Just had a bottle on the boat , " said MacDonald , who is now 16 . He fishes with his dad , typically doing tours with Tony 's Tuna Fishing based out of North Lake . MacDonald said his dad would always tell him about messages in bottles being tossed out into the ocean in November of 2018 . " I decided let 's just make it . I put my name on the top , said ' catching ganders off North Lake , P.E.I. ' Put my address , phone number , date , and just gave it a good throw . Never thought anything of it . " ' First it found its way out of like the Maritime region , that ocean , then it went all the way around the Atlantic , ' says Lucas MacDonald . ( Arlene MacDonald ) MacDonald pretty much forgot about the bottle completely as the years passed . " My first thought was it 's either going to get crushed by another boat or I 'm just going to find it the very next day on the beach , " he said . " Could have been just stuck in a current just somewhere in the Atlantic doing figure eights for the rest of its lifetime . " However about a week and a half ago , MacDonald got a text he was n't expecting . " I got a random text message saying , like ' is this Lucas MacDonald ? , ' " he said . " Instantly I was like this is a scam , like there is no way , then I read over it again . " The bottle MacDonald tossed into the ocean and the message he put inside . ( Dianne Jurek/Facebook ) The person told him they found a message in a bottle with his name and phone number on it and sent him a picture . Dianne Jurek lives in Fresno , Texas . She was walking on a beach in the area on May 7 on her way back from fishing when she saw something stuck in the sand -- a bottle . " When we got out and looked at it , it definitely had something in it . So we grabbed it and took it with us , " she said . ' How interesting ' When Jurek was visiting family she decided to check out what was in the bottle and saw the message from MacDonald . ' This will really keep him excited to stay on the water , ' says Dianne Jurek . ( Dianne Jurek/Facebook ) " It had moisture inside of it so we had to be careful pulling it out , " she said . " I just thought how interesting , when we looked it up , how far it had travelled to our beach . " Jurek was surprised to get a message back . She thought the person who made the message may have changed phone numbers . " I 've actually spoke with his mother through Facebook , " she said . " This will really keep him excited to stay on the water . So , yeah it was pretty neat . " MacDonald said he had no idea his bottle would find its way into the Gulf of Mexico . " First it found its way out of like the Maritime region , that ocean , then it went all the way around the Atlantic , " he said . " It was amazing how it went underneath Florida as well , and then went in and got stuck in Texas . " The rough track the bottle took from the Island to Texas . ( Tony 's Tuna Fishing/Facebook ) Jurek said now she wants to throw her own message in a bottle in the water . However , environmental experts advise against that . CBC has spoken with environmental experts in the past . They do n't encourage throwing bottles of any type into the ocean as it adds to pollution . Back in 2018 , a man who threw messages in bottles off P.E.I. for 22 years was ordered to stop by conservation officers or face a $5,000 fine . More from CBC P.E.I. <p> An Ontario man has been charged with impaired driving and fined for violating public health orders after trying to board a Newfoundland-bound ferry in North Sydney , N.S. Cape Breton Regional Police received a report Wednesday around 11 p.m . AT of a possible impaired driver parked in the lineup at the Marine Atlantic terminal , where employees had stopped him from boarding the ferry . A 65-year-old man from Etobicoke was arrested . His vehicle was towed from the scene and his licence suspended . The man was expected to appear Thursday in Sydney provincial court charged with impaired driving . Police said the man arrived in Nova Scotia on Tuesday , but he failed to prove his permission to enter the province . He was fined $2,422 for failing to abide by ongoing provincial health orders . MORE TOP STORIES <p> WARSAW , Poland ( AP ) -- A Polish journalist who described a U.S. conservative activist as part of a global war against democracy by right-wing actors with indirect ties to Russia has won a years-long legal battle with the American . Matthew Tyrmand , an American with Polish roots , has written for Breitbart and is a board member of the organization Project Veritas , which carries out undercover stings against media organizations seeking to expose what it believes is left-wing bias . Tyrmand sued Polish journalist Tomasz Piatek and Agora , publisher of the liberal newspaper Gazeta Wyborcza , over a 2016 article that described Tyrmand as " part of the global war by the right wing against democracy " and as a supporter of Donald Trump , who was not yet the U.S. president . Tyrmand objected to several points in the article , including the description of him as " Trump 's man " and an allegation that he had an indirect link to Russia due to Trump 's sympathy for Russian President Vladimir Putin . He also objected to Piatek writing that Project Veritas wages " informational warfare . " Tyrmand maintained that the 2016 article was defamatory and sued Piatek , losing an initial case and also on appeal . The judge in the lower court argued argued that it was not defamatory to describe Tyrmand as part of Trump 's circle when he has written for Breitbart and been associated with other pro-Trump political actors . A panel of three judges at the appellate court upheld that ruling , though one of the three dissented . The appellate court 's judgment became final earlier this week after a deadline passed by which Tyrmand would have had to appeal higher to the country 's Supreme Court . Tyrmand told The Associated Press that he decided to end his legal battle because he had " little faith " in getting a fair hearing if he continued , alleging that Polish courts are " politicized . " " I have decided not to appeal to the Supreme Court because frankly after reading the ridiculousness of the appellate court ruling , my faith in the judiciary acting apolitically stands somewhere between low and none , " Tyrmand said in message sent Wednesday . They are basically saying that my views make me a rightful target and any protections are nullified and voided but his views , since they are so agreeable to the politicized court , are upheld as valid and worthy of protection Piatek , who has written books that explore alleged links between people in the world of politics , business and the media with pro-Kremlin groups , welcomed the ruling . " It 's a victory of truth , " he told the AP on Thursday from Warsaw . The Tyrmand name is known in Poland because the activist 's father is the late Leopold Tyrmand , a prominent Polish-Jewish communist-era dissident and writer who survived the Holocaust and emigrated to the United States in the 1960s . During the 2016 U.S. presidential campaign Tyrmand distributed the film " Clinton Cash " -- which portrayed Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton as captive to wealthy foreign interests -- in Poland . Around that time he was also writing articles for Breitbart News , led by Steve Bannon , who later became Trump 's chief strategist . Tyrmand also had friendly ties to some members of Poland 's conservative government . Piatek and editors at Gazeta Wyborcza believed that Tyrmand 's case against them was part of a broader effort by the government and people friendly to it to have a chilling effect on its journalists . Tyrmand has denied that and said he was fighting to defend his reputation . During the initial trial , Tyrmand argued that the article connected him " in this tenuous guilt-by-association to Vladimir Putin . " He called it the " biggest slander and slur " possible in a part of Europe that had " achieved independence from the Soviet tyranny . " Tyrmand also argued that it was unfair to call him a supporter of Trump , arguing that at the time that the article was published he still backed Republican challenger Ted Cruz . Vanessa Gera , The Associated Press <p> NEW YORK ( AP ) -- CNN said Thursday it was " inappropriate " for anchor Chris Cuomo to have been involved in phone calls with the staff of his brother , New York Gov . Andrew Cuomo , where strategies on how the governor should respond to sexual harassment allegations were allegedly discussed . The network was responding to a story in The Washington Post that said Chris Cuomo had joined a series of conference calls with aides and advisers . The host of CNN 's " Cuomo Prime Time " encouraged his brother to take a defiant position and not resign , the Post said , quoting two people present on one of the calls that the newspaper did not identify . CNN said in a statement that Chris Cuomo has not been involved in the network 's coverage of the allegations , either on the air or behind the scenes , because he could not be objective and often serves as a " sounding board " for his older brother . " However , it was inappropriate to engage in conversations that included members of the governor 's staff , which Chris acknowledges , " the network said . " He will not participate in such conversations going forward . " The network did not announce any disciplinary action against its show host . On his show Thursday night , Chris Cuomo said being involved in the calls was " a mistake . " " I put my colleagues here ( at CNN ) , who I believe are the best in the business , in a bad spot , " the anchor said at the top of his show . " I never intended for that , I would never intend for that , and I am sorry for that . " Asked about the Post story , Cuomo press secretary Richard Azzopardi said that " there were a few phone conversations , with friends and advisers giving the governor advice . " The New York Democrat is facing allegations that he abused his power by inappropriately touching and sexually harassing women who worked with him or met him elsewhere . Accusations range from groping under a woman 's shirt and planting unwanted kisses to asking unwelcome personal questions about sex and dating . Cuomo has apologized for making anyone feel uncomfortable , but said he never touched anyone inappropriately or made inappropriate advances . The state attorney general is investigating . A majority of state Democratic lawmakers have called on Cuomo to resign . The Post story said that at one point , Chris Cuomo used the phrase " cancel culture " as a reason to hold firm . During a March 12 phone call with reporters where Andrew Cuomo said he would not resign , the governor said , " people know the difference between playing politics , bowing to cancel culture and the truth . " Andrew Cuomo , 63 , and Chris , 50 , are both sons of former New York Gov . Mario Cuomo and have described themselves as best friends . The first woman to publicly accuse Cuomo of harassment , Lindsey Boylan , issued a statement blasting the brothers . " The job of the press is to hold people who abuse their power accountable . Chris Cuomo has the loudest microphone at the biggest news station in the country . Entire power systems are structured to protect men like Andrew Cuomo . This is example infinity of why women do n't come forward . " During the height of the COVID-19 crisis in New York last spring , CNN set aside its previous policy not allowing Andrew to appear on Chris ' program . Many viewers found the resulting banter between the two entertaining before CNN reinstated its ban in June . But those exceptions looked bad in retrospect when Cuomo received criticism for a New York state policy regarding COVID patients in nursing homes , and the subsequent harassment allegations . Chris Cuomo said on the air March 1 that he " obviously " could n't cover the stories surrounding his brother . It 's generally considered inappropriate for people in the news media to offer advice to news figures . Fox News Channel figures Tucker Carlson and Sean Hannity have both acknowledged privately giving their opinions to former President Donald Trump , although Hannity has said that " I never claimed to be a journalist . " Andrew Cuomo is also under investigation by a state legislative committee over allegations that his administration arranged for members of his family , including Chris Cuomo , to get special access to COVID-19 tests last year at a time when they were generally unavailable to the general public . Associated Press correspondent Marina Villeneuve in Albany , New York , and researcher Rhonda Shafner in New York contributed to this report . David Bauder , The Associated Press <p> Canadians looking to drive across the border to the United States for the sole purpose of getting a COVID-19 vaccine are not exempt from mandatory quarantine upon their return . In a statement late Wednesday , the Public Health Agency of Canada said quarantine exemptions now in place are not intended for those travelling abroad to get vaccinated against the coronavirus disease . " Testing and quarantine exemptions for travellers returning to Canada after receiving essential medical services in a foreign country was not intended to be used for those seeking to receive a COVID-19 vaccination , " a PHAC spokesperson said in an email . " This provision is in place to allow Canadians who are seeking life-saving medical treatment outside of Canada . " The statement attempts to clarify reports earlier this week that the vaccine may be considered an essential medical service and that Canadians crossing the border could be exempt from the 14-day quarantine when they return . Earlier this week , Albertans who attended a Montana vaccination clinic were told they were exempted from having to quarantine for 14 days . The new statement from the Public Health Agency of Canada attempts to clarify reports from earlier this week that the vaccine may be considered an essential medical service and Canadians crossing the border could be exempt from the 14-day quarantine when they return . In fact , Canadians who travel abroad for a vaccine must quarantine on return . ( Paul Sancya/The Associated Press ) The Canada-U.S. border has been closed in light of the pandemic to non-essential travel for purposes such as tourism and recreation since March 2020 . Non-essential travellers entering Canada through the land border need to provide proof of a negative COVID-19 test before arrival , in addition to the mandatory 14-day quarantine period for returning non-essential travellers . But since February , patients undergoing essential medical treatment can skip those requirements only if they have a written statement from a licensed health-care practitioner in Canada -- and from a practitioner in the country where they are receiving the treatment . Some U.S. states have been offering free vaccines to Canadian truck drivers who transport goods across the border . Those essential cross-border workers are not subject to testing and quarantine under federal public health rules . The health agency said in the statement that " COVID-19 vaccines are widely available in Canada . " Canada has administered 19.4 million doses with 47.9 per cent of the total population having received at least one dose , according to CBC 's vaccine tracking data . U.S. says vaccine travel not essential Canada 's top public health agency also points out the decision on whether entry into the U.S. is allowed would fall to American border authorities . On Wednesday , U.S. Customs and Border Protection said Canadians attempting to drive across the American border solely for a COVID-19 vaccination , even with a doctor 's referral , would be denied entry . " Travel for the sole purpose of obtaining a vaccination is not permissible under current travel restrictions , " an agency spokesperson said . " If a person is entering the U.S. for legitimate travel reasons , as allowed under current restriction guidelines , and receives a vaccine incidental to their trip , it is not part of the overall admissibility determination . " The Canada Border Services Agency told CBC News in a statement that , while Canadians can travel to the United States for essential medical treatment , travelling south to get a COVID-19 vaccination does not exempt people from border quarantining protocols . " Please note , the CBSA does not provide out-of-the-ordinary treatment to Canadian residents who visit cross-border vaccine clinics ; the usual processing procedures at the border are followed regarding determinations made for quarantine and testing exemptions , " the statement said . Maximum penalties for failing to comply with mandatory quarantine rules on travellers returning to Canada include a fine of up to $750,000 and/or imprisonment for six months . If someone jeopardizes another 's life " while wilfully or recklessly contravening the act " the penalties are even greater : $1 million or three years in prison , or both . The Conservative Party of Canada criticized the rules , saying that if cities such as Detroit have surplus doses Canadians should be able to travel south for a shot . " While large sections of Canada remain in lockdown during this third wave caused by our lack of vaccines , we can not afford to waste the opportunity to secure more , " the statement said . <p> Luc LeBlanc was almost relieved when he was diagnosed as a confirmed case of the mystery brain disease that has afflicted 48 New Brunswickers so far . After months of worry , frustration and questions , he thought he would finally get some answers . Instead , there has only been more worry and more frustration . And so many more questions . He wonders how he got the disease . He wonders how bad it will get . He wonders how long he will live . He wonders if the disease is contagious , and if his two children will get it . " I have a lot of questions , " LeBlanc said . " Nothing has really been answered . " In an interview with Information Morning Moncton on Thursday , the Dieppe resident , 41 , said his ordeal began years ago with recurring " cloudiness . " He 'd walk into a room , for example , and forget how he got there . That progressed to deeper disorientation , then panic attacks " just from the fear of it all . " Eventually , he was referred to Moncton neurologist Dr. Alier Marrero and underwent MRIs , bloodwork , a spinal tap and a CT scan . On Jan. 9 of this year , Marrero diagnosed him as having a mysterious brain disease , one of a cluster of cases that has since reached a total of 48 confirmed and suspected cases . So far , the disease has only been found in New Brunswick . Six people have died . LeBlanc was told Public Health would be in contact with a detailed questionnaire " within days . " More than four months later , he said he still has n't heard from them . " I never received any call , nobody contacted me at all , I never got the questionnaire , " he said . " It 's depressing , because all my symptoms are full-blown . " Moncton neurologist Dr. Alier Marrero , seen here in a file photo , is leading the province 's investigation into the brain disease . ( Tori Weldon/CBC file photo ) Alarmed by 6-month gap between appointments LeBlanc is also troubled by the lack of information being shared by the Health Department , and by the infrequency of appointments with Marrero , who is now leading the province 's investigation of the cases . " In April , I saw him and I was really concerned . I did a physical and he said it was stabilized , " he said . " He upped my anxiety meds and said we will meet back in six months and do more tests . " LeBlanc was alarmed . " I said , ' Well , that 's ridiculous , it 's like a ticking bomb . I could pass away before that six months . ' " I had to go to a Facebook group to get a feel of what 's going on , what are the symptoms , all those questions . - Luc LeBlanc , diagnosed with mystery brain disease Marrero assured him his symptoms are not as advanced as some other cases , and some people live with this disease " for a long time . " " I had other questions , but he brushed them off a bit , " and referred him back to his family doctor to discuss the results of the physical . LeBlanc tried to get answers from his family doctor , but was told his questions were best directed to a neurologist . His next appointment with Marrero is not until October . In the end , LeBlanc said , " I had to go to a Facebook group to get a feel of what 's going on , what are the symptoms , all those questions . " He was referring to a private Facebook group for patients and families of patients with the mystery disease . Started by Steve Ellis , whose father , Roger , is one of the suspected cases , the Mystery Neurological Disease NB Support Group now has 338 members . CBC News requested comment from Marrero through the Health Department , which handles his media inquiries , but was told that " the department is unable to comment on specific cases . " " The department understands there is concern in the community , " spokesperson Bruce Macfarlane said in an email Wednesday afternoon . " But due to the relatively low number of cases , we will not be releasing more personal information as it could lead to a privacy breach for patients . " Luc LeBlanc with his wife , Anick , and their son Simon and daughter Britany . LeBlanc said he worries about whether the disease is contagious , and whether his children will be prone to it . ( Submitted by Luc LeBlanc ) Public Health 's duty to inform the public , LeBlanc says The situation has left LeBlanc feeling like he 's been left to cope with this disease on his own and in the dark . He 's calling for Public Health to reach out to every one of the 48 patients to help ease their fears in any way they can . " To my knowledge , they have n't spoken with anybody at all , " he said . " I know they 're trying their best , it 's a new disease , but Public Health has a job to do to inform the public ... to just bring awareness to it . " LeBlanc acknowledged that Public Health may not actually know much more , if anything , than they 've already made public on the neurological disease information website at the government 's gnb.ca website . But he thinks they still have a responsibility to those New Brunswickers grasping for any kind of feedback . " It 's a big mystery and for myself , I do n't know how long I 'll be completely sane , " he said . " I would like to know what 's the next step of the decline ... to put my mind at ease , to not wake up and just feel more and more that I do n't know what to do . " Asked why patients have not yet been contacted by Public Health , spokesperson Bruce Macfarlane said the department has completed the questionnaire and is " still in the process of obtaining all contact information and signed consent forms from cases under investigation . " " Public Health New Brunswick will be in touch by phone to conduct interviews with individuals very soon , " he said . CBC News journalists are working diligently to try to learn more about this disease . If you or a family member have information you 'd like to share with us , please email neuro-nb@cbc.ca . N.B. 's mystery disease : What we know so far What is it ? An unknown neurological disease with similarities to Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease , a rare and fatal brain disease , or prion disease . What 's a prion disease ? A prion disease is a rare disease that pertains to a misfolded protein in the brain . The abnormal folding of the prion proteins provokes a chain reaction that destroys neurons and creates holes in the brain . When was it discovered ? The first occurrence was retroactively found to have occurred in 2013 , after the possible existence of a cluster of disease was first recognized by the CJD Surveillance System at the Public Health Agency of Canada in 2020 . In 2019 , 11 additional cases were identified , with 24 more in 2020 and 12 so far in 2021 . When was it made public ? A March 5 internal memo from Public Health to health-care professionals was obtained by Radio-Canada and reported by Radio-Canada and CBC News on March 17 . Where are the cases ? The disease has so far only been identified in New Brunswick . It appears to be concentrated on the Acadian Peninsula in northeast New Brunswick and the Moncton region in the southeast . How many cases are there ? Forty-eight cases have now been identified . How many patients have died ? Six people have died of the mystery disease , according to neurologist Dr. Alier Marrero . The six are included in the 48 cases so far . Who has been affected ? The disease affects all age groups and affects males and females equally , according to the Public Health memo . About half of the affected individuals are between 50 and 69 years of age . What are the symptoms ? Symptoms include changes in behaviour , sleep disturbances , unexplained pain , visual hallucinations , co-ordination problems and severe muscle and brain atrophy . Is it contagious ? Because the cause has not been determined , it is not yet known whether the disease is contagious . What are the possible causes being researched ? Despite many similarities , tests for Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease have so far ruled out known prion diseases . Scientists are currently looking into the possibility that this is a new variant of a prion disease -- or a new disease entirely . Neurologists and scientists suspect the cause might be exposure to an as-yet-undetermined environmental toxin . Who 's researching it ? The disease is the subject of investigation by an all-Canadian team of neurologists , epidemiologists , scientists , researchers and other experts . Moncton neurologist Dr. Alier Marrero is leading the research in New Brunswick . In Ottawa , senior scientist and Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease Surveillance System director Michael Coulthart is leading the research . In April , Horizon Health Network launched a special clinic to assess people experiencing early-onset cognitive decline as cases of an unknown brain disease continue to pop up . Province 's website The province has launched an information webpage on the mystery neurological disease , which it updates with new information . It is found on the government 's gnb.ca website , and is called New Brunswick Cluster of Neurological Syndrome of Unknown Cause . <p> The Yukon government says construction will begin this summer in Dawson City on the 800-kilometre Dempster fibre optic line . The line will connect to the existing Mackenzie Valley Fibre Link in Inuvik , N.W.T. , giving Yukon another broadband connection to the rest of the world . It will be completed in 2024 , the government says . " This is an important milestone for the Dempster fibre project , " said Highways and Public Works Minister Nils Clarke in the Legislative Assembly on Wednesday , as he announced the construction plan . " This project will ensure that northern communities have internet and cell phone services they can rely on , even in the event of a cut to the fibre line like the one which occurred last week . " Currently , the territory relies on one line from the south that is occasionally sliced or damaged , disrupting internet service for hours at a time . The last such disruption happened a week ago when the line was damaged near some road construction happening in northern B.C. The new line would connect to the existing Mackenzie Valley Fibre Link , in Inuvik . ( Dave Croft/CBC ) In a news release on Wednesday , the Yukon government said more than 20 per cent of the Dempster line contract value will be subcontracted to First Nations businesses . Earlier this month , ROHL Global Networks , in partnership with Dagoo Services , was awarded the $67-million contract . The project will be paid for by the federal government , with money from the Yukon government and Northwestel as well . Project was ' ready to go ' years ago , opposition says Last week 's service disruption in Yukon prompted the opposition the press the government for details on the Dempster fibre line project . Yukon Party MLAs complained that the Liberals have been dragging their feet for years . Yukon Party MLA Scott Kent said ' Liberal delays and mismanagement ' have unnecessarily prolonged the project . ( Yukon Legislative Assembly ) MLA Scott Kent said on Wednesday that the project was " ready to go " when the Liberals first took office in 2016 , but that it then fell victim to " Liberal delays and mismanagement . " Kent applauded the projected 2024 completion date , but said he would n't count on it . " You 'll have to forgive Yukoners for being sceptical , as the last two ministers in charge of the Dempster fibre project missed every single timeline they set for themselves , " Kent said . 
@@52750789 <h> Evening Brief : Lessons learned and a slow reopening <p> Today 's Evening Brief is brought to you by News Media Canada . It 's time to level the digital playing field . Google and Facebook are using their monopoly to threaten and undermine local news . Other countries are taking action . It 's time for Canada to stand up to the web giants -- and step up for local news . Learn more . <p> " No one more than I wants to see the restart of the travel sector as quickly as possible , " Transport Minister Omar Alghabra said today when asked by iPolitics if a system to loosen travel restrictions will exist by a certain date , or a certain percentage of Canada 's population has been vaccinated against the virus . <p> " But I also understand that , if we sent the wrong message or signal , or started ( allowing international travel ) too early , this could have an even further detrimental impact on the travel ( and ) aviation sector . " <p> Yesterday , the European Union took a significant first step to developing its own COVID-vaccine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the National Airlines Council of Canada , to urge the federal government to produce a Canadian plan to ease travel restrictions . That story from Charlie Pinkerton . <p> " The frustration has been that both the federal government in Canada and the United States has failed to provide any information beyond the fact that the border is going to be closed another 30 days , " he said . " Vaccines are a very powerful tool . ... I think that needs to be recognized in some way . " <p> " Today , we 're seeing increasingly positive trends and key public health indicators , " Ford said at a news conference this afternoon . " As a result , we 're now in a position to look at a slow and measured reopening of the province . " <p> The plan will open the economy sector by sector , rather than by region , an approach that was used , then abandoned , during the second wave of cases earlier this year . Each step will last at least 21 days , to assess whether vaccination targets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first reported by iPolitics , Ford said outdoor recreation like golf and tennis will be allowed starting May 22 , earlier than anticipated . Iain Sherriff-Scott has more on what will be allowed and when . <p> Meanwhile on the Hill : After hearing from two federal ministers that Bill C-10 would uphold Canadians ' Charter rights , Conservative MPs are still trying to add protection of Canadians ' social-media content to the legislation . The move follows weeks of criticism of the bill to update the Broadcasting Act . The committee took a rare two-week break to hear from the bill 's sponsor , Heritage Minister Steven Guilbeault , as well as Justice Minister David Lametti , due to concerns the change would inhibit Canadians ' right to free expression under the Charter of Rights and Freedoms . <p> In the committee 's first-clause-by-clause debate since that break on Wednesday , Tory Canadian Heritage critic Alain Rayes introduced an amendment to return the social-media exemption to C-10 . " We believe ( the amendment ) is absolutely essential , " Conservative digital-government critic Rachael Harder told iPolitics today . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Rachel Emmanuel reports . <p> The latest episode of No Talking Points is live . This week is all about sexual misconduct allegations and freedom of expression concerns . You can have a listen here . <p> " I believe , with every fiber of my being , that there are simple , core values and beliefs that should bring us together as Americans . One of them is standing together against hate , against racism -- an ugly poison that has long haunted and plagued our nation , " Biden said . " Today I can say that because of all of you ... you 've taken that first step . " <p> And in a sign of a slow return to somewhat normal times , the gathering marked the first time a large group was inside the White House while unmasked . <p> In the Middle East , after 11 days of fighting , Israel and Hamas have announced a Gaza ceasefire . A statement from Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's office said the security cabinet had " unanimously accepted the recommendations to accept an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ groups Hamas and Islamic Jihad then confirmed the ceasefire in a statement . As Al Jazeera reports , there does n't appear to be agreement yet on when it will come into effect . <p> In a bravado-filled ' do as I say , not as I do ' moment , Russian President Vladimir Putin had a warning for countries he alleges have dreams of biting off pieces of the country 's vast territory . In a conference call with officials he said Moscow would " knock their teeth out " if they ever tried , noting , " The development of our military is the guarantee of that . " So there 's that . AP reports . <h> More from iPolitics <p> By submitting content , you agree that you are personally responsible for the content that you publish and that iPolitics owns the copyright in the content that you submit . You also agree to comply with any specific rules posted on blogs or forums . Please see the Terms of Use for more details . 
@@52753148 <h> Morning Brief : Eyes on Canada 's vaccine progress <p> Today 's Evening Brief is brought to you by News Media Canada . It 's time to level the digital playing field . Google and Facebook are using their monopoly to threaten and undermine local news . Other countries are taking action . It 's time for Canada to stand up to the web giants -- and step up for local news . Learn more . <p> Good morning and happy Friday . <p> -- Short of expectations : Canada could receive 8 to 10 million fewer COVID-19 vaccine doses than it originally expected for the summer , according to new supply estimates , CBC reports . The country is expected to get about 40 million doses by July , which is less than what the PM and cabinet have been promising . CBC has the score so far on which companies have delivered what , with all eyes assessing Canada 's vaccine rollout as it reaches the half way mark for first doses . <p> -- Quebec-Ontario bridge suddenly closes : The Ile-aux-Tourtes bridge that links Montreal with Ontario abruptly closed after engineers deemed it to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said it noticed " damage to the reinforcing rods " on the bridge . <p> -- Court rules Iran shot down flight on purpose : Ontario Superior Court has concluded Iran intentionally shot down Flight PS752 and that it constituted an intentional " act of terrorism . " Iran did not defend itself in the court case . <p> -- Feds eye expanding travel ban : Canada 's current flight ban for India and Pakistan is scheduled to end Saturday . But amid concerns over the overseas spread of the alarming B1617 variant , Global reports the government has been considering whether to extend it . <p> -- In the latest episode of our ? ? ? No Talking Points ? ? ? podcast , our panel talks about the military sexual misconduct allegation that dominated headlines this week and how the government is running defence on the freedom of expression concerns raised over Bill C-10 . Do n't miss it . <p> -- From our latest Rebel to Rabble Review : " Rebel News supporters who dutifully opened their wallets to fill the coffers of the avowedly right-leaning media @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knowing that , while their latest bid to overturn an " anti-free-speech restraining order " may not have been entirely successful , their crowd-funded legal team might at least get the chance to cross-examine Alberta 's chief medical officer , Deena Hinshaw , in court . " <p> -- Cease-fire at last : 11 days of violence has come to an end with a cease-fire in effect between Israel and Palestine . In Gaza , 232 people were killed . Israel says 150 were militants . Twelve people in Israel were killed , including two children . <p> -- Biden meets Moon : Joe Biden and South Korea 's Moon Jae-in meet for talks at the White House today , with North Korea likely to dominate the discussions . While the two are looking at different approaches to dealing with the North , progress is more likely to come on other fronts , like vaccine procurement and economic recovery . <p> -- Infrastructure talks drag : The White House resumes talks today with Senate Republicans on Biden 's $2.3 trillion infrastructure plan . But with progress so slow , hopes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House set a " soft " deadline of end of the month to figure out if it can reach a deal . <p> -- WHO says do n't cross borders : As the world collectively rolls up its sleeves with the hope of soon putting the pandemic in the rearview , a World Health Organization official is cautioning against international travel , saying the situation is still " fragile " at the moment . " In the face of a continued threat and new uncertainty , we need to continue to exercise caution , and rethink or avoid international travel . " <p> -- EU pauses China deal : European Parliament has put ratifying a major investment deal with China on ice . Europe wants Beijing to lift retaliatory sanctions it imposed after it was criticized for human rights abuses . <p> The driver behind the controls of one of Japan 's famous bullet trains suddenly heard nature 's call . So , he grabbed an unlicensed conductor to sit in his seat and rushed to a passenger car to do his business , all while the train was hurtling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but the driver now finds himself in deep ... trouble . <p> And with that , have a great Friday ! <h> More from iPolitics <p> By submitting content , you agree that you are personally responsible for the content that you publish and that iPolitics owns the copyright in the content that you submit . You also agree to comply with any specific rules posted on blogs or forums . Please see the Terms of Use for more details . 
@@52753409 <h> Relief trucks enter Gaza , $18mn for aid allocated <p> Thirteen truckloads of cargo for UN agencies and their partners entered Gaza Friday and $18 million in aid allocated after the Israeli-Palestinian cease-fire went into effect , UN humanitarians said . <p> The vehicles entered through the commercial Kerem Shalom crossing carrying food , Covid-19 vaccines , medical disposables , and medicine , the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs ( OCHA ) said . The Erez crossing also opened temporarily for humanitarian officials , Xinhua reported . <p> The number of people seeking protection in schools run by the UN agency for Palestinian refugees known as UNRWA decreased drastically to less than 1,000 from the more than 66,000 people displaced during bombardments , the humanitarians said . <p> The agency supplied the displaced people with water , sanitary facilities , masks and other protective equipment , to help contain Covid-19 , and also used generators to provide electricity during outages . <p> Undersecretary-General Mark Lowcock , the UN emergency relief coordinator , allocated $18.6 million for rising humanitarian needs in Gaza , including $4.5 million from the United Nation 's Central Emergency Response Fund and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organization expects to have a three-month inter-agency flash appeal for the occupied Palestinian territory next week . Substantial financial support is crucial to meet needs , especially in Gaza but also for the West Bank . <p> Humanitarian needs in Gaza were already high before the latest hostilities because of almost 14 years of the Israeli blockade , internal Palestinian political division and the pandemic , the humanitarians said . <p> It is crucial the UN Palestinian humanitarian fund , a flexible tool to quickly respond to urgent needs , is replenished , OCHA said . 
@@52753445 <h> Austin Meadows <h> Latest Stories <p> QUETTA , Pakistan ( AP ) -- A powerful roadside bomb that went off on Friday near a vehicle carrying a local leader of an Islamist political party in southwestern Pakistan killed seven people , police and a government spokesman said . It was unclear who was behind the attack in Chaman , a town in Baluchistan province . Local police chief Abdul Bashir said the attack took place when Abdul Qadir , a local leader of a faction of the Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam party , was on his way to attend a pro-Palestinian rally . Along with the seven killed , at least 15 people were wounded , he said . No one claimed responsibility for the attack and police said they were still investigating . Liaquat Shahwani , a Baluchistan government spokesman , condemned the bombing . Hours later , responding to calls from the Jamaat-e-Islami party , thousands of Islamists and members of civil society groups rallied in the capital , Islamabad , in support of Palestinians . Similar anti-Israel rallies were also held in other main cities across Pakistan , which is among few countries with no diplomatic ties with Israel . Earlier on Friday , Pakistan 's Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi welcomed a cease-fire between Israel and the Hamas militant group that rules the Gaza Strip . Quetta is the capital of Baluchistan , where security forces in Baluchistan have been battling an insurgency for more than a decade by separatists demanding autonomy or a higher share of the province 's gas and mineral resources . Pakistani Taliban and other militants also have a presence in the province . Abdul Sattar , The Associated Press <p> Recent developments : Restrictions on outdoor visits at Ontario long-term care homes are being relaxed . What 's the latest ? Ottawa Public Health ( OPH ) has confirmed another 68 COVID-19 cases and six more deaths , but hospitalizations are down across the board . The Outaouais is reporting 71 new cases , the highest single-day tally of the month . Starting Saturday , family members and friends can visit loved ones in long-term care outside their facilities across Ontario . Starting Monday , Ontarians who got an AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine between March 10 and 19 can contact the same location to book a second dose . More information will follow for those vaccinated after March 19 . How many cases are there ? The region is coming down from a record-breaking peak of the pandemic 's third wave , one that has included more dangerous coronavirus variants . The rate of spread is still high . As of Friday , 26,425 Ottawa residents have tested positive for COVID-19 . There are 971 known active cases , 24,909 resolved cases and 545 deaths . Public health officials have reported more than 48,000 COVID-19 cases across eastern Ontario and western Quebec , including more than 45,500 resolved cases . Elsewhere in eastern Ontario , 185 people have died . In western Quebec , the death toll is 209 . Akwesasne has had 690 residents test positive , four of them active , and 10 deaths between its northern and southern sections . Kitigan Zibi has had 34 cases . Tyendinaga Mohawk Territory has had 11 , with one death . Pikwakanagan has n't had any . The transfer of COVID-19 patients from other regions to Ottawa hospitals continues . As of the most recent update Friday , there were 20 COVID-19 patients from other communities in Ottawa ICUs . CBC Ottawa is profiling those who 've died of COVID-19 . If you 'd like to share your loved one 's story , please get in touch . What can I do ? Eastern Ontario : Ontario is under a stay-at-home order until at least June 2 . Its reopening plan leans on rates of spread and vaccination ; the target for it to begin is mid-June . For now , people should only leave home for essential reasons like getting groceries , seeking health care and exercising in their immediate area . WATCH We launch our Walk This Way series : The vast majority of gatherings are prohibited . Exceptions include small activities with households and small religious services . As of Saturday , many closed recreation venues can reopen and the outdoor gathering limit rises to five people , including from different households . However , Ottawa has had to reverse its plan to reopen splash pads . WATCH Ontario 's roadmap for summer : Ontario has moved to online learning . Daycares remain open and the plan is to open summer camps . Most non-essential businesses can only offer curbside pickup . Access to malls is restricted and big-box stores can only sell essential items . Gyms and personal care services are closed , while restaurants are only available for takeout and delivery . Police checkpoints between Ontario and Quebec are not running 24/7 . Officers in Ontario have the power to stop and question people if they believe they 've gathered illegally . Local health units and communities can also set their own rules , as Ottawa is doing around playgrounds and the Belleville area is doing for the agriculture industry . Western Quebec Western Quebec is under red zone rules . It has a plan to gradually reopen , starting with the curfew lifting and outdoor gatherings and dining returning on May 28 . For now , high schools , gyms , theatres , personal care services and non-essential businesses can open with restrictions . The curfew is in place from 9:30 p.m. until 5 a.m . A person at a window Jan. 9 , 2021 in Gatineau , Que . The province implemented an 8 p.m. to 5 a.m. curfew starting that night in efforts to reduce COVID-19 cases . It 's scheduled to lift on May 28 . ( Adrian Wyld/Canadian Press ) Private gatherings remain banned , except for a person who lives alone seeing one other household . Small religious services are allowed and people can go to theatres . Older secondary school students will be going to classrooms every second day . Distanced outdoor exercise is allowed in groups up to eight people . People ca n't travel to yellow or green zones or risk a fine . Distancing and isolating The novel coronavirus primarily spreads through droplets that can hang in the air . People can be contagious without symptoms , even after getting a vaccine . Coronavirus variants of concern are more contagious and are now established . This means it is important to take precautions now and in the future like staying home while sick -- and getting help with costs if needed -- keeping hands and surfaces clean and maintaining distance from anyone you do n't live with , even with a mask on . Boaters stand on a boat launch at the Kitchissippi Marina in Gatineau , Que. , on May 15 , on the Gatineau side of the Ottawa River . ( CBC ) Masks , preferably ones that fit snugly and have three layers , are mandatory in indoor public settings in Ontario and Quebec . OPH says residents should wear masks outside their homes whenever possible . People have to show proof of a recent negative COVID-19 test to enter Canada by land without a fine and have to pay for their stay in a quarantine hotel if entering by air . Canada has extended its ban on direct flights from India and Pakistan until June 21 WATCH An update on travelling to America : Anyone with COVID-19 symptoms should self-isolate , as should those who 've been ordered to do so by their public health unit . The length varies in Quebec and Ontario . Health Canada recommends older adults and people with underlying medical conditions get help with errands . Vaccines Four COVID-19 vaccines have been deemed safe and approved in Canada . Ontario and Quebec have both stopped giving first doses of the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine , but plan to give second doses . Canada 's task force said first doses offer such strong protection that people can wait up to four months to get a second . About 1,100,000 doses have been given out in the Ottawa-Gatineau region since mid-December , including more than 500,000 doses to Ottawa residents and about 225,000 in western Quebec . Eastern Ontario Ontario is vaccinating people 18 and older and 17-year-olds turning 18 in 2021 . People can look for provincial appointments opening up online or over the phone at 1-833-943-3900 . Pharmacies continue to offer vaccines through their own booking systems as supply allows . The very first people who got an AstraZeneca vaccine can book a second dose starting Monday . The province 's goal is a second AstraZeneca dose 12 weeks after the first , with more details to come on other recipients . Ontario plans to allow everyone over age 12 to make an appointment starting the week of May 31 . Individual health units and First Nations can choose to vaccinate that age group now at pop-up clinics . Local health units have flexibility in the larger framework , including around booking , so check their websites for details . Some offer standby lists for first doses . Western Quebec Quebec is vaccinating everyone age 18 and older . Teens age 16 and 17 are eligible if they have certain jobs or a chronic illness or disability . A walk-in clinic continues in Gatineau 's Palais des Congr ? s today and tomorrow . The province plans to reach children as young as 12 starting Tuesday . It expects to have given a first dose to 75 per cent of adults by June 15 and is looking at 75 per cent of people age 12 and up getting their second dose by the end of August . People who qualify can make an appointment online or over the phone . Symptoms and testing COVID-19 can range from a cold-like illness to a severe lung infection , with common symptoms including fever , a cough , vomiting and loss of taste or smell . Children tend to have an upset stomach and/or a rash . If you have severe symptoms , call 911 . Mental health can also be affected by the pandemic , and resources are available to help . In eastern Ontario : Anyone seeking a test should make an appointment . Check with your health unit for clinic locations and hours . Ontario recommends only getting tested if you fit certain criteria , such as having symptoms , exposure or a certain job . People without symptoms but who are part of the province 's targeted testing strategy can make an appointment at select pharmacies . Shoppers Drug Mart stores can now offer rapid tests . Travellers who need a test have very few local options to pay for one . Two people pose in front of a mostly red tulip bed in Ottawa 's Commissioner 's Park May 13 , 2021 . ( Giacomo Panico/CBC ) In western Quebec : Tests are strongly recommended for people with symptoms and their contacts . People can make an appointment and check wait times online . Call 1-877-644-4545 with questions , including if walk-in testing is available nearby . First Nations , Inuit and M ? t is : First Nations , Inuit and M ? t is people , or someone travelling to work in a remote Indigenous community , are eligible for a test in Ontario . Akwesasne has a COVID-19 test site by appointment only and a curfew of 11 p.m. to 5 a.m . Anyone returning to the community on the Canadian side of the international border who 's been farther than 160 kilometres away -- or visited Montreal -- for non-essential reasons is asked to self-isolate for 14 days . People in Pikwakanagan can book a COVID-19 test by calling 613-625-1175 . Anyone in Tyendinaga who 's interested in a test can call 613-967-3603 and in Kitigan Zibi , 819-449-5593 . Tyendinaga 's council is asking people not to travel there to camp or fish . Inuit in Ottawa can call the Akausivik Inuit Family Health Team at 613-740-0999 for service , including testing and vaccines , in Inuktitut or English on weekdays . For more information <p> The race to vaccinate Canadians against COVID-19 has ramped up considerably in recent weeks as shots begin to flow to virtually all age groups nationwide . Nearly 50 per cent of the population has had one dose , vaulting Canada near the top of the global rankings , but fewer than five per cent have had the two doses needed to build substantial immunity against the deadly novel coronavirus . To vaccinate all Canadians , the government has signed contracts with seven different vaccine makers -- six foreign , one domestic -- with options to purchase more than 400 million doses . Six months into the immunization campaign , some companies have already delivered on those contracts while others , like Medicago , Novavax and Sanofi-GSK , are in various stages of development . Some of these products wo n't be available until late 2021 at the earliest , leaving their role in Canada unclear . Here 's a look at where the seven companies stand in their efforts to produce and ship COVID-19 vaccines to Canada . Pfizer-BioNTech Pfizer , the workhorse of Canada 's vaccination effort , has been arriving at a steady pace since March . The New York-based company idled its Belgian plant in January to revamp production lines to pump out many more shots to meet global demand , a necessary fix that temporarily brought shipments to a halt . Since then , the company has been delivering its mRNA product like clockwork . More than 15 million Pfizer shots have been distributed to the provinces and territories so far with at least two million more arriving each week until the end of July . There will be some extra doses shipped in June with deliveries rising to 2.4 million a week that month . Canada has procured a total of 48 million doses from the pharmaceutical giant , enough to fully vaccinate 24 million people . At least 18 million of those shots will arrive in the July-through-September period . The expectation is most of those shots will be used to administer second doses for the millions of Canadians who 've already had a shot of this product . Boxes containing the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine are prepared in December to be shipped at the Pfizer Global Supply Kalamazoo manufacturing plant in Portage , Mich . ( Morry Gash/The Associated Press ) Some provinces have already begun to detail when those second shots will be administered while others , notably Ontario , have said little . Because it 's the only product currently authorized by Health Canada for use among people aged 12 to 15 , the Pfizer shot will be crucial in getting adolescents vaccinated ahead of a safe return to school . As of this month , the company is now shipping shots to Canada from its Kalamazoo , Mich. plant , which is just 220 kilometres from the Detroit-Windsor border crossing . This means Canadian deliveries will be better protected against European efforts to control vaccine exports . Moderna The mRNA shot from this Massachusetts-based company is the second-most frequently used COVID-19 vaccine product in Canada . The company , which had never previously brought a drug to market , has had trouble meeting insatiable global demand for its product . While Canada was among the first countries to sign a procurement deal with Moderna , the company has had to cancel shipments or punt deliveries to a later date as it struggles with production issues . Moderna is reliant on third-party finish-and-fill companies to churn out its product and ship it overseas . ( Tyson Koschik/CBC ) Because the U.S. government invested heavily in the early research and development of this product , Moderna had to send a certain number of doses to the American marketplace , an obligation that has resulted in reduced shipments to other countries . The company , which has few facilities on its own , is reliant on third-party finish-and-fill companies to churn out its product and ship it overseas . There have been delays in the quality-assurance process because of a shortage of skilled labour in Europe . WATCH Uncertainty on Moderna deliveries ' normal but understandably frustrating , ' minister says The company was expected to send some 12.3 million doses to Canada in the second quarter , for a total of 14.3 million shots in the first six months of this year . However , that number is now in question . The new military commander leading vaccine logistics signalled Thursday that fewer shots -- potentially eight to 10 million less than planned -- could be delivered next month because of ongoing delays with Moderna shipments . There are already early signs that the company might not hit that target . A staff member sets up an antibody production line at the Ibex building of Lonza , where the Moderna mRNA vaccine is to be produced , in Visp , Switzerland , last September . ( Denis Balibouse/Reuters ) Speaking to reporters late last month , Maj.-Gen Dany Fortin , the military commander who was in charge of vaccine logistics before he was abruptly removed , said Moderna will come " as close as possible " to the number of doses it initially promised to deliver in the April-through-June period . When asked if the company was still on track to deliver those 12.3 million doses , a spokesperson for Moderna told CBC News : " We remain in close contact with our federal government partners . " " Moderna continues to scale up vaccine manufacturing and remains fully focused on delivering vaccines to customers in Canada and around the world , " said Patricia Gauthier , the general manager for Moderna 's Canadian operations . In all , Canada has ordered a total of 44 million doses from the company .. AstraZeneca-Oxford Most Canadians are now familiar with the concerns raised about this product . While safe and effective , the National Advisory Committee on Immunization ( NACI ) has said the viral vector shot from AstraZeneca-Oxford is not the " preferred " product because of the risk of a very rare but serious condition that could develop after vaccination . At last count , there were 21 confirmed cases of vaccine-induced thrombotic thrombocytopenia ( VITT ) among the 2.1 million people who 've already had a dose . VITT is blood clots combined with low levels of blood platelets following immunization . The provinces have stopped using AstraZeneca for first doses , but some 665,000 shots from COVAX , the global vaccine sharing alliance , arrived last week . Dr. Theresa Tam , Canada 's chief public health officer , has said these shots will be used for second doses . Early data from the United Kingdom suggest the risk of VITT after second doses of AstraZeneca is likely lower than the risk after first doses . The vaccine maker recommends a four-to-12-week interval between the first and second shot . Research suggests waiting longer may actually produce a better immune response . There should be enough AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine on hand by Canada Day to vaccinate about 75 per cent of the 2.1 million people who 've already received a first dose . ( Jeff McIntosh/Canadian Press ) Beyond the recent shipment from COVAX , Canada is also set to receive at least one million doses from AstraZeneca itself before the end of June . Between those two shipments , there will be enough product on hand by Canada Day to vaccinate about 75 per cent of the 2.1 million people who 've already received a first dose . WATCH Ontario proceeding with second doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine Canada has ordered up to 10 million doses from AstraZeneca , so more shots are expected to arrive in the months ahead . Total distributed doses Canada has also purchased some 1.5 million doses of a product biologically identical to AstraZeneca but manufactured by the Serum Institute of India . Because that country is in the throes of a deadly wave of new cases , the Indian government has blocked all exports . The institute has said it could resume global deliveries at year 's end . Johnson &amp; Johnson Like AstraZeneca , NACI has said the viral vector vaccine from Johnson &amp; Johnson is less preferable than the mRNA products from Pfizer and Moderna . But some experts have suggested this one-shot vaccine could be helpful in vaccinating more vulnerable groups who may be less likely to return for a second shot . Canada received some 300,000 doses of the J&amp;J vaccine in late April , but these products have not yet been shipped to the provinces because Health Canada has ordered the shots be quarantined . Boxes of the COVID-19 vaccine from the U.S. pharmaceutical company Johnson &amp; Johnson are pictured at a central vaccine warehouse in Germany . The vaccine only requires one dose . ( Ronny Hartmann/dpa via AP Photo ) The regulator is verifying the safety of these doses because they were made at a Maryland plant that has had an uneven track record of producing vaccines . Workers at Emergent BioSolutions inadvertently ruined 15 million doses of the J&amp;J vaccine by mixing up materials intended for the production of AstraZeneca shots . The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has since ordered the Baltimore plant to stop all production . A sign outside the Emergent BioSolutions site in Winnipeg is pictured in February . During an appearance before a U.S. congressional committee this week , the CEO of Emergent said more than 100 million doses of Johnson &amp; Johnson 's vaccine are on hold as regulators check them for possible contamination . ( Gary Solilak/CBC ) During an appearance before a congressional committee this week , the CEO of Emergent said more than 100 million doses of J&amp;J 's vaccine are now on hold as regulators check them for possible contamination . Canadian officials have said very little about what work is underway now to ensure the shots we 've received are safe . Novavax Another Maryland-based company , Novavax , has produced a vaccine that has shown a lot of promise in trial results . The shot , which is given in two doses , was shown to be 89.3 per cent effective at preventing COVID-19 in participants in its Phase 3 clinical trial . Novavax has been submitting data to Health Canada on a rolling basis since January , but little is known about when the vaccine will be available . Multiple requests for comment from CBC News have gone unanswered . Novavax has repeatedly pushed back production forecasts and has struggled to access raw materials and the equipment needed to make its vaccine . Earlier this month , the company again delayed its timeline for ramping up COVID-19 vaccine production and said it does not expect to seek regulatory authorization for the shot in the United States , the U.K. and Europe until the third quarter of 2021 . The company has already started producing its shots ahead of regulatory approvals , with more than 300 people working around the clock at a Fujifilm Diosynth Biotechnologies factory in Billingham , England . Medicago The federal government has signed a contract with one Canadian company for vaccine doses , Quebec-City-based Medicago . Last fall , Ottawa floated $173 million to help Medicago develop its COVID-19 vaccine and build a large plant to produce it . On Tuesday , Medicago , which is developing the product in combination with GlaxoSmithKline ( GSK ) , reported positive early clinical trial data on its plant-derived COVID-19 vaccine . A Phase 3 trial for Medicago with 30,000 volunteers is already underway in Canada , the U.S. and the U.K. , and it will expand to Brazil this week . Medicago 's plant-based COVID-19 vaccine candidate is now in Phase 3 clinical trials . ( Medicago ) A spokesperson for Medicago told CBC News they expect to analyze and publish the data in early summer , then make a submission for regulatory approval from Health Canada . " Pending approval , we would then begin production , " Alissa Von Bargen said in a statement . If approved , the Medicago vaccine is likely to be the first COVID-19 shot produced in Canada . The bulk material will mainly be manufactured at Medicago 's North Carolina facility , but the vials are filled and finished with the GSK pandemic adjuvant in Canada . An adjuvant is a substance used in vaccines to help aid in the immune response . Canada signed a deal in October to buy 20 million doses of Medicago 's vaccine , with an option for 56 million more . But most Canadians will likely be vaccinated before Medicago 's shot is approved . Sanofi-GSK The two large pharmaceutical companies with major operations in Canada , GSK and Sanofi , co-developed a COVID-19 vaccine product but announced a " delay " last year after it failed to produce sufficient results in clinical trials . The two companies have since restarted the trial process and are currently in Phase 2 of testing . The third and final phase is n't expected to begin for a number of weeks , meaning these shots likely wo n't be available for use until next year . <p> Nearly four months after the U.S. Capitol attack , just one of more than 440 people charged has pleaded guilty , a sign of tough conditions set by prosecutors for plea deals and resistance by defense lawyers to their demands . This reflects the high stakes of cases stemming from the worst violence at the Capitol in modern history , which left five people dead . U.S. officials have suggested in court hearings that defendants might be interested in pleading guilty , a move that typically can result in a shorter sentence . <p> The office of Alberta 's information commissioner says it has not determined whether the province 's controversial energy " war room " is subject to freedom of information legislation , despite the United Conservative government 's insistence the war room 's structure allows it to evade such scrutiny . An expert in freedom of information ( FOIP ) says the commissioner should launch an investigation into whether the public can request records from an organization he calls " profoundly undemocratic . " " It means that there is perhaps an opportunity for us to get information about what exactly is happening in the war room , " Mount Royal University journalism professor Sean Holman said in an interview this week . " The war room is an extremely controversial body . It is operating outside of democratic norms . " In October 2019 , the government said its decision to establish the Canadian Energy Centre ( CEC ) as a private corporation meant its internal operations were exempt from Alberta 's freedom of information act . That law , frequently used by journalists and political parties , allows the public to request records from public institutions to hold them accountable . " The CEC 's internal operations are not subject to FOIP , as this would provide a tactical and/or strategic advantage to the very foreign-funded special interests the CEC is looking to counter , " a spokesperson for Premier Jason Kenney said then . But information commissioner Jill Clayton 's office said the issue is not settled . " Since it was incorporated as a provincial corporation , our office has not made a decision on jurisdiction with respect to the Canadian Energy Centre , " spokesperson Scott Sibbald said in an email . " Specifically , a decision has not been made on whether the FOIP Act applies to it . " Energy Minister Sonya Savage said incorporating the war room would make it more efficient . But advocates criticized the move to shield it from FOIP , calling it a blatant attempt to escape accountability . ( Scott Neufeld/CBC ) Sibbald said the office can test whether the centre is subject to FOIP after receiving a complaint from the public ; for example , from someone who submitted a request to the centre but was denied . He said no one has made a complaint or raised a concern with Clayton . Under the law , Clayton could open an investigation . Sibbald said Clayton has not because " generally , commissioners will open investigations on their own motion when there is evidence of contravention of the law . " " We can not recall a situation where an investigation was opened only to determine jurisdiction . " Clayton declined an interview request . Sibbald said it would be inappropriate for the commissioner to comment because her office is dealing with privacy complaints involving the war room . A spokesperson for Energy Minister Sonya Savage initially promised to provide comment but then said the government stands by its previous statements . Public scrutiny essential , expert says The UCP government launched the war room in December 2019 to promote Alberta oil and gas and combat what it calls misinformation about the industry . Three government ministers comprise its board of directors . Since then , it became embroiled in a series of gaffes including a copyright infringement spat , tweets attacking the New York Times , and its campaign against a Netflix family film . " This is a profoundly undemocratic body , not just because it is secretive , but also because it is attacking foes , or supposed foes , of the oil and gas industry in a way that we certainly have n't seen from governments across this country , " Holman said . The centre 's budget was $10 million in 2020-21 and is expected to be $12 million this year . Holman said public scrutiny of the war room is critical . " If we can get some daylight into its operations , that will really help the public make better decisions on whether or not this is an operation that is worth spending taxpayer money on , and whether it is an operation that is behaving correctly according to what we would expect in a democratic society . " <p> Whether snapping daily life in Cuba or members of the Irish rock band U2 , photographer and singer Julian Lennon says the pictures he most likes taking are spontaneous . " The ones that really I enjoy the most are ... spur of the moment , " Lennon , 58 , told Reuters . The son of late Beatle John Lennon and his first wife Cynthia , Lennon is sharing a selection of his photos in a virtual exhibition called " Vision " on the website of Aston Martin Residences in Miami . <p> Hungary will lift most remaining COVID-19 curbs , including a night-time curfew , as soon as the number of those vaccinated reaches 5 million this weekend , Prime Minister Viktor Orban said on Friday . Orban told state radio that masks would no longer need to be worn in public , and gatherings of up to 500 people could be held in the open air , with events in closed spaces open to though to people with vaccination cards . " This means we have defeated the third wave of the pandemic , " Orban said , adding that the time has come to say " goodbye to masks " in public places . <p> ROME ( Reuters ) -Rich nation leaders and big drugmakers promised on Friday to do more to bridge the startling divide in fighting COVID-19 , with an increased flow of badly-needed vaccines to poorer regions . Lavishly-funded mass inoculation campaigns are helping many wealthy countries slash infections , but few shots have reached less developed nations where the virus still rages sometimes uncontrollably , drawing accusations of " vaccine apartheid " . To date , some 1.53 billion doses have been administered globally , but only around 1% of them in Africa , according to the World Health Organization ( WHO ) . <p> P.E.I. Premier Dennis King says the province 's plan for an ' open , safe ' summer is coming next week . The province announced one new case of COVID-19 Friday , confirming its 200th case of since pandemic began . Chief Public Health Officer Dr. Heather Morrison says all the second tests for children who were potentially exposed to COVID-19 at the Leaps and Bounds Daycare in Charlottetown have come back negative . RCMP on P.E.I. are concerned about the number of complaints they are getting about large gatherings . Although it will be much like 2020 , P.E.I. high schools are proceeding with their graduation and prom plans . Starting in June , junior high students on P.E.I. can receive the first dose of their COVID-19 vaccines at in-school clinics run by public health nurses . Parks Canada sites on P.E.I. are already busy as Islanders seek outside activities , which are considered low risk for spreading COVID-19 . There have been 200 cases of COVID-19 on P.E.I. and 15 are considered active . There have been no deaths and two hospitalizations . Elsewhere in the Atlantic region : Also in the news These Islanders are currently eligible for a vaccine People over 12 . Islanders over 40 can book an appointment for a Moderna vaccine at a pharmacy . You can find more information about how to get a vaccine here . Further resources Reminder about symptoms The symptoms of COVID-19 can include : Fever . Cough or worsening of a previous cough . Possible loss of taste and/or smell . Sore throat . New or worsening fatigue . Headache . Shortness of breath . Runny nose . More from CBC P.E.I. <p> The latest numbers of confirmed COVID-19 cases in Canada as of 4:00 a.m . ET on Friday , May 21 , 2021 . There are 1,347,445 confirmed cases in Canada . Canada : 1,347,445 confirmed cases ( 59,968 active , 1,262,366 resolved , 25,111 deaths ) . *The total case count includes 13 confirmed cases among repatriated travellers . There were 5,058 new cases Thursday . The rate of active cases is 157.79 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 35,033 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 5,005 . There were 45 new reported deaths Thursday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of 286 new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is 41 . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.11 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 66.07 per 100,000 people . There have been 33,863,629 tests completed . Newfoundland and Labrador : 1,216 confirmed cases ( 76 active , 1,134 resolved , six deaths ) . There were four new cases Thursday . The rate of active cases is 14.56 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 43 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is six . There have been no deaths reported over the past week . The overall death rate is 1.15 per 100,000 people . There have been 258,988 tests completed . Prince Edward Island : 199 confirmed cases ( 14 active , 185 resolved , zero deaths ) . There were zero new cases Thursday . The rate of active cases is 8.77 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 11 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is two . There have been no deaths reported over the past week . The overall death rate is zero per 100,000 people . There have been 156,571 tests completed . Nova Scotia : 5,065 confirmed cases ( 1,143 active , 3,848 resolved , 74 deaths ) . There were 65 new cases Thursday . The rate of active cases is 116.71 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 658 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 94 . There were zero new reported deaths Thursday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of three new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is zero . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.04 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 7.56 per 100,000 people . There have been 747,218 tests completed . New Brunswick : 2,098 confirmed cases ( 118 active , 1,937 resolved , 43 deaths ) . There were seven new cases Thursday . The rate of active cases is 15.1 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 58 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is eight . There were zero new reported deaths Thursday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of two new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is zero . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.04 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 5.5 per 100,000 people . There have been 328,034 tests completed . Quebec : 365,642 confirmed cases ( 6,634 active , 347,942 resolved , 11,066 deaths ) . There were 662 new cases Thursday . The rate of active cases is 77.37 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 4,660 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 666 . There were eight new reported deaths Thursday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of 49 new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is seven . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.08 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 129.06 per 100,000 people . There have been 8,951,131 tests completed . Ontario : 517,090 confirmed cases ( 23,026 active , 485,512 resolved , 8,552 deaths ) . There were 2,400 new cases Thursday . The rate of active cases is 156.28 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 14,919 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 2,131 . There were 27 new reported deaths Thursday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of 147 new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is 21 . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.14 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 58.04 per 100,000 people . There have been 14,705,247 tests completed . Manitoba : 46,916 confirmed cases ( 4,659 active , 41,238 resolved , 1,019 deaths ) . There were 603 new cases Thursday . The rate of active cases is 337.79 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 3,218 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 460 . There were three new reported deaths Thursday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of 17 new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is two . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.18 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 73.88 per 100,000 people . There have been 757,926 tests completed . Saskatchewan : 45,128 confirmed cases ( 1,785 active , 42,821 resolved , 522 deaths ) . There were 146 new cases Thursday . The rate of active cases is 151.44 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 1,196 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 171 . There were zero new reported deaths Thursday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of nine new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is one . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.11 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 44.29 per 100,000 people . There have been 828,773 tests completed . Alberta : 222,279 confirmed cases ( 17,675 active , 202,442 resolved , 2,162 deaths ) . There were 812 new cases Thursday . The rate of active cases is 399.72 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 7,086 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 1,012 . There were four new reported deaths Thursday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of 30 new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is four . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.1 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 48.89 per 100,000 people . There have been 4,430,264 tests completed . British Columbia : 140,953 confirmed cases ( 4,771 active , 134,521 resolved , 1,661 deaths ) . There were 357 new cases Thursday . The rate of active cases is 92.68 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 3,143 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 449 . There were three new reported deaths Thursday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of 29 new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is four . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.08 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 32.27 per 100,000 people . There have been 2,653,028 tests completed . Yukon : 84 confirmed cases ( zero active , 82 resolved , two deaths ) . There were zero new cases Thursday . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of zero new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is zero . There have been no deaths reported over the past week . The overall death rate is 4.76 per 100,000 people . There have been 9,129 tests completed . Northwest Territories : 126 confirmed cases ( 12 active , 114 resolved , zero deaths ) . There were zero new cases Thursday . The rate of active cases is 26.57 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 11 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is two . There have been no deaths reported over the past week . The overall death rate is zero per 100,000 people . There have been 22,680 tests completed . Nunavut : 636 confirmed cases ( 55 active , 577 resolved , four deaths ) . There were two new cases Thursday . The rate of active cases is 139.76 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 30 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is four . There have been no deaths reported over the past week . The overall death rate is 10.16 per 100,000 people . There have been 14,564 tests completed . This report was automatically generated by The Canadian Press Digital Data Desk and was first published May 21 , 2021 . The Canadian Press <p> The mayor of Carlyle , Sask. , says her family 's experience with COVID-19 was terrifying . " It was a very scary experience , " said Jennifer Sedor . " I know of people that were in hospital and on oxygen who are in our age group , which is the 30s and 40s , and it 's terrifying . " Sedor said she is so grateful for the help she received from the community and health-care workers . The family 's ordeal began over the Easter break when Sedor 's mother-in-law , who was providing child care for her nephews , came over . Sedor 's daughter contracted the virus . No one had displayed any symptoms at the time . " No one had a runny nose . Everybody was happy . They 're eating . They 're playing . They 're doing what kids normally do , which is half the time , you know , sharing germs with each other , " Sedor said . Jennifer Sedor , along with her husband , got their vaccine as soon as they could after recovering from the virus . ( Submitted by Jennifer Sedor ) June and Sedor isolated in two rooms away from the rest of the family after being diagnosed . June had very mild symptoms and Sedor at first did n't have any . " It was my husband Tim that got sick first . So that 's when it kind of all started to unravel in our household , " she said . Tim came down with a light fever . Friends told them to purchase a pulse oximeter , which measures your oxygen levels . They noticed his levels starting to drop and called Sask Health for advice . He ended up with pneumonia and " a fever of around 103 , 104 Fahrenheit for a good 10 days . His breathing became very laboured , " Sedor said . Tim was never hospitalized , but did make several trips to the Redvers health facility . " My husband was laying in bed and he had absolutely no idea I was on the phone with the hospital , " she said . " I 'm like , ' This is what he 's going through . I ca n't get him up . I ca n't get him awake . He 's not making sense . He 's got a high fever . ' They said , ' Just bring him down and we 'll get him checked out . ' They got him in and they got him x-rayed and got him the right medications . " Carlyle Jennifer Sedor and daughter June in isolation with COVID-19 . ( Submitted by Jennifer Sedor ) It was a full week later that Sedor herself started to get symptoms , including a fever that developed into bronchitis . " I had this really debilitating cough that really interrupted my breathing , " she said . " It felt like all of my bones were inflamed . It just felt like every joint , anything that you moved was just angry , and that went on for days . " Family members phoned to check in and started to get worried when she or Tim could n't finish sentences . " It was terrifying . Absolutely terrifying . " Her two older children also came down with symptoms , but never tested positive . The quarantine for the two oldest children lasted more than 30 days . Sedor wants people to know how debilitating it was for her family , but also how much support they received from the community . She said that even in a small town , COVID-19 is lurking . " It was almost like in our southeast corner that we were looking out the window and watching the world deal with this , " she said . " I need people to understand that it is not far away from your home . Somewhere that you have been if you 're out in the public , you crossed somebody who has been affected by COVID at this point . It 's very real and it is on your doorstep . " Sedor also said the province needs to balance any restrictions with other factors such as the mental health of children and the economy . She is happy with the government 's phased-in approach to reopening . " I am looking forward to these benchmarks . I feel confident in the vaccine plan . And I feel confident in the amount of people in my community who are getting their shots . We 've had a really positive response out here , too , to being vaccinated . " Opening up does n't mean letting our guard down , said Sedor , adding she and her husband are still suffering symptoms " The time to take this seriously is now , " she said . " It 's not time to give up our social distancing . It 's not time to give up on our masking . It 's not time to go , ' I 'll get my vaccine later . ' " <p> In The News is a roundup of stories from The Canadian Press designed to kickstart your day . Here is what 's on the radar of our editors for the morning of May 21 ... What we are watching in Canada ... TORONTO -- An Ontario court has ruled that the Iranian military 's downing of a passenger jet early last year was an intentional act of terrorism , paving the way for relatives of those killed to seek compensation from the country . In the decision , Ontario Superior Court Justice Edward Belobaba found on a balance of probabilities that the missiles that shot down Ukraine International Airlines Flight 752 on Jan. 8 , 2020 , were fired deliberately at a time when there was no armed conflict in the area . As a result , he found it constituted an act of terrorism that would invalidate Iran 's immunity against civil litigation . The ruling says that while the State Immunity Act protects foreign states from legal claims , the Justice for Victims of Terrorism Act provides an exception in cases where the losses are caused by terrorist activity . More than 100 of the 176 people killed in the plane crash had ties to Canada , including 55 Canadian citizens and 30 permanent residents . The lawsuit was filed last year by four people whose loved ones were killed in the attack . --- Also this ... OTTAWA -- Transport Minister Omar Alghabra says he can not yet commit to a date -- or COVID-19 vaccination rate benchmarks -- for when so-called vaccine passports will allow Canada to ease travel restrictions . Alghabra says decisions around hotel quarantines for air passengers and the eventual reopening of the border will hinge on expert advice and unspecified criteria tied to the pandemic . " These decisions will depend on public health , will depend on data and evidence . At this moment I ca n't give you a specific date , " he told reporters yesterday . Alghabra has stressed the need for a " common platform " to identify travellers ' vaccination status , saying Thursday he is working with G7 countries and the European Union to integrate vaccine certification into international travel in the months ahead . The EU agreed Wednesday to a plan that would allow fully vaccinated travellers to visit the 27-nation bloc , as well as relax restrictions for all travel from some other countries that are deemed COVID-19-safe . A date remains to be set , however . The move prompted Canada 's largest airlines to renew their call for a clear plan from Ottawa on resuming international travel . --- What we are watching in the U.S. ... WASHINGTON -- The House on Thursday narrowly approved $1.9 billion to fortify the Capitol after the Jan. 6 insurrection , as Democrats pushed past Republican opposition to try to harden the complex with retractable fencing and a quick-response force following the most violent domestic attack on Congress in history . The bill 's 213-212 passage came a day after the House approved the formation of an independent commission to investigate the deadly mob siege by Donald Trump 's supporters , who battled police to storm the building in a failed attempt to overturn Democrat Joe Biden 's election . The two measures now face an uncertain outcome in the evenly divided Senate as most Republicans have objected to both . Tensions are running high at the Capitol , with Democrats growing exasperated with Republicans who refuse to acknowledge the severity of the insurrection because of what appears to be their devotion to Trump -- and fears of crossing him . " We have a major political party in the country that 's ignoring it -- we 're trying to solve a problem , they clearly do n't want to sit down and talk about it , " said Rep. Tim Ryan , D-Ohio , chairman of an appropriations subcommittee handling legislative branch security . --- And this ... WASHINGTON -- U.S. President Joe Biden on Thursday signed legislation to curtail a dramatic rise in hate crimes against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders and expressed pride that lawmakers who seem to agree on little else came together against hate and racism . Biden lavished praise on Democrats and Republicans for approving the bill by lopsided margins and sending it to the White House for his signature . Several dozen lawmakers attended the bill signing ceremony , one of the largest groups to visit the Biden White House during the pandemic . The House approved the bill 364-62 this week , following the Senate 's 94-1 vote in April . Biden , who stressed his wish to help unite the country as he campaigned for office , said during the East Room event that fighting hate and racism should bring people together . --- What we are watching in the rest of the world ... GAZA CITY , Gaza Strip -- Palestinians have rallied by the thousands after a cease-fire took effect in the latest Gaza war . The 11-day conflict left more than 200 dead -- the vast majority Palestinians -- and brought widespread devastation to the already impoverished Gaza Strip . But the rocket barrages fired by Gaza 's militant Hamas rulers that brought life to a standstill in much of Israel were seen by many Palestinians as a bold response to perceived Israeli abuses in Jerusalem . The truce faces an early test on Friday , when tens of thousands of Palestinians attend weekly prayers at the Al-Aqsa Mosque compound in Jerusalem , a flashpoint holy site revered by Jews and Muslims . --- On this day in 1990 ... Lucien Bouchard praised the cause of Quebec separation and quit the federal cabinet as environment minister and the Conservative caucus . He later formed the Bloc Quebecois , but left to lead the Parti Quebecois and serve as premier of Quebec from 1996-2001. --- In entertainment ... TORONTO -- The " Schitt 's Creek " saga came to a fittingly triumphant conclusion on home soil with the hit CBC sitcom 's final season emerging as this year 's top Canadian Screen Awards winner . The riches-to-rags story nabbed a total of eight trophies during the week of virtual CSAs , the final major awards show for the series after a year filled with international accolades . " Schitt 's Creek " won best comedy series and a lead-actress honour for Catherine O'Hara on Thursday after getting six awards the previous night , including a writing nod for Toronto-raised co-creator and star Daniel Levy . Its other CSAs wins included Emily Hampshire for best supporting actress and a directing trophy for Levy and Andrew Cividino . The widely beloved Ontario-shot show , which aired on Pop TV in the United States and streamed on Netflix internationally , was the leading contender going into this year 's CSAs with 21 nominations . Indigenous zombie feature " Blood Quantum " was up for a leading 10 film awards going into the CSAs week and emerged the second-highest overall winner with seven trophies in total . --- ICYMI ... LONDON -- Prince William and his brother Prince Harry on Thursday issued strongly worded statements criticizing the BBC and British media for unethical practices after an investigation concluded that one of the broadcaster 's journalists used " deceitful behavior " to secure Princess Diana 's most explosive TV interview in 1995 . The circumstances surrounding the interview from more than 20 years ago came under scrutiny after Diana 's brother , Charles Spencer , made renewed complaints that journalist Martin Bashir used false documents and other dishonest tactics to persuade Diana to agree to the interview . The BBC appointed a retired senior judge in November to lead an investigation into the matter . On Thursday , a report from the inquiry said Bashir acted in a deceitful way and breached BBC rules by mocking up fake bank statements and showing them to Charles Spencer to gain access to the princess . The report also criticized the BBC for covering up what it knew about Bashir 's actions , and said the corporation 's own probe into the matter fell short of its usual standards of integrity and transparency . In his statement , William , 38 , said the BBC 's failures contributed to the deterioration of his parents ' marriage and worsened Diana 's feelings of paranoia . Harry , meanwhile , said the issue was bigger than just the BBC - and that " the ripple effect of a culture of exploitation and unethical practices ultimately took her life . " --- This report by The Canadian Press was first published May 21 , 2021 . The Canadian Press <p> Whether you are a teacher , a student , a medical professional or just coping with the COVID-19 crisis in your daily life , there are frequent reports about how the pandemic is increasing our levels of anxiety . Rather than trying to add to our troubles , the Bank of Canada 's latest report on Canada 's financial vulnerabilities is intended to help us avoid some major ones . And what the bank 's governor , Tiff Macklem , outlined at a news conference on Thursday was not what will certainly go wrong , but what could go wrong if we 're not careful . " The biggest domestic vulnerabilities are those linked to imbalances in the housing market and high household indebtedness , " Macklem told reporters . " These are not new , but they have intensified . " The Bank of Canada governor has plenty to keep him awake at night . The report was not just about housing . Macklem also worries Canadian businesses may have become too used to cheap borrowing in the bond market , something that could end without anything to replace it . He frets that investors have failed to account for what climate change could do to the price of their assets . He is concerned about cybercrime . Also , the rising Canadian dollar and how it could hurt exports . Serious damage , and not just to borrowers But the big worry this time was real estate . The message was clear , if sometimes couched in central-bank-speak . If people do n't stop bidding up the price of houses , Canadians are already so loaded with mortgage debt that an unexpected change in the market could do serious damage not just to " overstretched " borrowers with enormous loans , but to the entire economy . That 's why the first and biggest risk outlined by the bank in its report was " a large decline in household income and house prices " caused by an external trigger event . It is hard to be sure what form such a trigger event could take . Macklem referred at one point to a " sharp repricing of risk . " Such an event might lead to , say , a sudden rise in global interest rates , a stock market crash or a weakening of global trade . Maybe even the collapse of bitcoin . As the Bank of Canada illustrated in the graphic below , once triggered , already high levels of indebtedness could have a circular impact , pushing house prices down , reducing incomes and spreading through the entire economy . This is a financial system review graphic from the Bank of Canada 's latest report . It shows what could happen if some kind of triggering economic event were to impact the housing market . ( Bank of Canada ) Asked if he was responsible for inflated house prices by keeping interest rates too low , Macklem offered a warning : " Interest rates have been very low , and at some point they are going to go back up . " While he thinks this week 's high inflation rates are temporary , he made it clear that if inflation does not come back down on its own , the bank is still committed to pushing it back to the two per cent range . That could mean even higher rates . Tougher stress tests coming Although it is the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions ( OSFI ) , not the Bank of Canada , that imposes " stress tests " designed to limit the amount people can borrow , the two bodies work closely together . Shortly after Macklem 's news conference , OFSI put out a news release of its own confirming that as of June 1 , the agency would go ahead with a plan to make it harder to get a loan . Borrowers will have to prove they have the income to pay a minimum of 5.25 per cent interest , even if their lender offers a much lower rate . That is not a plan that will satisfy everyone , including the many young families that Macklem said send him letters each week saying they have been squeezed out of the housing market . But they would likely be even more disappointed if the current frenzy to buy a home led to what the Bank of Canada report refers to as " a correction in prices in the future , " potentially leading to the vicious circle described above . The housing market was far from the only concern Bank of Canada governor Tiff Macklem discussed at yesterday 's news conference ( Don Pittis/CBC ) Despite his warnings , Macklem was not entirely gloomy . He pointed to the fact the Canadian economy had proven itself resilient in the face of widespread COVID-19 restrictions and lockdowns . " Vulnerabilities need not lead to serious problems , " the central banker told the online gathering of reporters . " Some will work themselves out before bad things happen . " But with so much at stake , including the health of the Canadian property market and all the jobs it supports , hoping for the best really is n't enough . " The lesson from history is that if left unchecked , vulnerabilities can lead to calamities , " Macklem said . Asked what else he could do besides hiking interest rates to slow down the property market , Macklem did not mention the very thing he did yesterday : he can try to scare the bejesus out of us . Follow Don Pittis on Twitter @donpittis <p> NEW YORK/LONDON ( Reuters ) -Bitcoin extended losses on Friday afternoon , falling more than 11% after China doubled down on efforts to prevent speculative and financial risks by cracking down on mining and trading of the largest cryptocurrency.China 's Financial Stability and Development Committee , chaired by Vice Premier Liu He , singled out bitcoin as the asset it needs to regulate more . The world 's largest and most popular cryptocurrency recently traded down 11.59% at $35,928 after holding the $40,000 level for most of the Asian and London sessions . This is the first time the government has explicitly targeted crypto mining . <p> A Shediac Cape man has been arrested in connection with a report last week of shots being fired in the Centennial Park area of Moncton , which police sealed off for the day while they investigated . Police now say the report was false . On May 13 , Codiac RCMP got a report at about 8:30 a.m. that a vehicle had been struck by bullets . Several schools went into lockdown , police issued an Alert Ready message , and residents were told to lock their doors and stay inside below window level . But on Friday , RCMP issued a news release saying their investigation determined there had been no shooting near Centennial Park . A 36-year-old man arrested because of the allegedly false report has been released from custody and is to appear Aug. 11 at 9:30 a.m. in Moncton Provincial Court . " We know people have many questions still -- as have we -- but that is information that will have to come out through the court process , " said Cpl . Hans Ouellette of the New Brunswick RCMP . In the news release , Ouellet said Codiac Regional RCMP were told a vehicle was struck by bullets near Millennium Boulevard and Killam Drive . More than an hour and a half later , police issued an Alert Ready message that was n't lifted until about 6 p.m. that day . An " exhaustive search of the area was conducted without the discovery of any evidence to warrant keeping the area contained , " Ouellet said in the release . Throughout the day of searching , police did not elaborate on the . gunshot report or say it was about bullets allegedly fired into a vehicle . " We operate on the information we have at the time , " Ouellet said . " Given the seriousness of the report , the RCMP acted in the best interests of public safety by containing the area and issuing an Alert Ready message . " Police said the investigation is continuing , <p> New research debunks a lingering belief that " natural arsenic " significantly contributes to high levels of the toxic substance around Yellowknife . For many years , elevated levels have been attributed to natural bedrock geology , but geology experts from Queen 's University say it 's not so . " The high values are due to pollution from human impact ... Most of the emissions are from the roasters at Giant and Con mines , " said Dr. Heather Jamieson , a professor and geology expert from Queen 's . During more than half a century of mining , 19,000 tonnes of toxic arsenic trioxide dust went up the stacks of smelters at the Giant and Con gold mines and settled on the once-pristine land and lakes in and around Yellowknife . " Most of the emissions are from the roasters at Giant and Con mines , " says Dr. Heather Jamieson , a professor and geology expert from Queen 's University . ( Submitted by Heather Jamieson ) The gold mining industry began in the late 1930s . Giant Mine closed in 2004 , leaving a toxic legacy that has deeply changed the lives of people in N'Dilo . The new study establishes a much lower figure for naturally occurring arsenic -- five times less than previous estimates for the Yellowknife region . They used tools that can distinguish particles of arsenic trioxide released from Giant Mine and Con Mine roaster stacks from natural arsenic in soil samples . Jamieson said the sampling work was done by two masters students who collected 479 soil samples which were then analyzed under a scanning electron microscope at the university . Two master 's students collected 479 soil samples around the city , which were then analyzed under a scanning electron microscope at the university . ( Jon Oliver/Submitted ) It found arsenic trioxide in 80 per cent of samples as far as 30 kilometres from Yellowknife and researchers say this substance is a marker of mining activity . " Within about 15 kilometres of Yellowknife , arsenic is predominantly hosted in arsenic trioxide ... which is an arsenic mineral that 's associated with mining emissions in the region , " said Michael Palmer , the study 's lead author and manager of the North Slave Research Centre at Yellowknife Aurora Research Institute . " Understanding how the landscape will recover , how arsenic is dispersed and when that is going to happen is a very important and challenging question , " he said . A view of the Giant Mine site outside of Yellowknife in 2017 . ( Chantal Dubuc/CBC ) When the researchers were preparing to dig into the state of soil around Yellowknife , they met with Yellowknives Dene , with elders and the N.W.T. 's lands department , said Palmer . " We really wanted to get a sense of where people wanted information from , " said Palmer . The study published in the international research journal Science of the Total Environment , calls for further research , such as where arsenic accumulates on the land and how long it will last , said Palmer . " If we think of ... the recovery of this landscape , " he said , " future work should be devoted to understanding how much arsenic is still washing off the landscape from these soils into lakes and rivers . And what 's its ultimate fate when it ends up in lakes and rivers ? " ' Definitely from mining emissions ' In the last year , Yellowknives Dene have held a demonstration at Giant Mine to demand a federal apology for the impacts to culture and life through loss of access to traditional lands . Bobby Drygeese , chairperson of the board of directors for Det'on Cho , the economic development arm of Yellowknives Dene First Nation , walks with a sign at a demonstration in Yellowknife in December of 2020 . ( Avery Zingel/CBC ) The First Nation says a recent federal response to a petition that garnered more than 32,000 signatures simply " repeats talking points they presented to media before YKDFN had our first meeting with senior officials in January 2021 . " They say the response fails to reflect over three months of discussions between the Yellowknives Dene and government representatives . Giant Mine poisoned areas used by the Yellowknives Dene for harvesting , berry picking and other cultural activities , all infringements for which they 've never been compensated . While science has dug into the question of arsenic distribution since the 1970s , it has n't , until now , scientifically proven that the arsenic levels are caused by human activity . " There are certain arsenic minerals that are definitely from mining emissions versus other minerals that are predominantly natural , " said Palmer . <p> The Superior Court of Justice of the Canadian province of Ontario ruled on Thursday that Iran owes damages to families who sued over the crash , which killed 176 people , 138 of them with ties to Canada . " Everyone knows that the Canadian court has no jurisdiction over this air crash " since it occurred outside Canada , Iran 's Foreign Ministry spokesman Saeed Khatibzadeh told reporters . <p> So you 're eligible for a COVID-19 vaccine and you want to get your shot at a Saskatchewan pharmacy . Great ! There are some important things to keep in mind , says Dawn Martin , the CEO of the Pharmacy Association of Saskatchewan . Pharmacies have administered between 40,000 and 50,000 doses in the province since joining the vaccination drive in the last few weeks and are expected to play a greater role during the second-dose phase , Martin said . According to the province , Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine shipments are being divvied up essentially 50-50 between Saskatchewan Health Authority ( SHA ) clinics and pharmacies . While pharmacists are used to giving out shots during flu season , the COVID-19 pandemic presents a new wrinkle in requiring the thawed-out Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine to be used quickly in order to avoid any wastage , she said . " That 's really intense this time around because the supply to date has been a bit limited , but is going to get better and better as we go into the next few weeks . " Here are five guidelines Martin encourages people to follow in order to help pharmacists in their future vaccination efforts . Do n't just walk in . Call ahead " There 's a huge amount of pressure on the supply that pharmacists have right now , so you need to call ahead , " Martin said . The map of Saskatchewan pharmacies currently administering COVID-19 vaccines can be found here . Scott Livingstone , the CEO of the SHA , said Thursday that links to pharmacies ' online booking systems will be added to that database . Do n't call a pharmacy until your age-bracket is eligible " It 's really important to know that pharmacies as well have to operate under that age category strategy that the government has set out and the Saskatchewan Health Authority is doing , " Martin said . In case you missed it , here 's the tentative schedule for future second-dose age drops : ( Saskatchewan Health Authority ) The Ministry of Health and Saskatchewan Health Authority will confirm the date of each age drop when it becomes official . " Some pharmacies have wait lists , but not all , " Martin said . Do cancel your appointment if you get your shot elsewhere first " Make sure that if you have an appointment at a pharmacy or you have an appointment with the SHA or you have multiple appointments , if you do end up going and getting your shot , please cancel all those other appointments , " Martin said . " The whole system is working really hard here . Those cancelled appointments cause some problems . " Do n't expect a centralized pharmacy booking system in Saskatchewan A spokesperson for the Ministry of Health said Thursday there are currently no plans to develop a provincial pharmacy booking system . Martin said there have been discussions about it between the association and the government , but that it 's likely too late to launch such a system now . " In an ideal world where we were n't dealing with all of the pressures and problems and challenges related to the pandemic , sure , that would probably help , " she said . Do be patient . Your time will come " We 're really struggling with a lot of pressure , a lot of phone calls to pharmacies from people who are n't in that second-dose age category , " Martin said . " So I 'm just asking people , please be patient . " <p> Vietnam 's government has urged two provinces that are home to production facilities of companies such as Samsung Electronics and Foxconn to boost efforts to prevent a COVID-19 outbreak disrupting industrial production . Deputy Prime Minister Vu Duc Dam told leaders of Bac Giang and Bac Ninh provinces at a meeting on Thursday to avoid the interruption of production chains in the provinces , the official Vietnam News Agency reported on Friday . 
@@52753930 <p> Rogers Media uses cookies for personalization , to customize its online advertisements , and for other purposes . Learn more or change your cookie preferences . Rogers Media supports the Digital Advertising Alliance principles . By continuing to use our service , you agree to our use of cookies . <p> We use cookies ( why ? ) You can change cookie preferences . Continued site use signifies consent . <h> AP 's firing of journalist following tweets prompts outcry <p> by David Bauder , The Associated Press <p> Posted May 21 , 2021 4:15 pm EDT <p> Last Updated May 21 , 2021 at 4:27 pm EDT <p> NEW YORK ( AP ) -- The Associated Press is being criticized for firing a young journalist over her social media activity , with some suggesting the news agency bowed to a political pressure campaign over her pro-Palestinian views from when she was in college . <p> Emily Wilder , 22 , had started at the AP on May 3 as a news associate in Phoenix , covering Arizona . On Wednesday , just over two weeks later , the AP informed her that she was being terminated for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she became an employee . <p> In the days before her firing , Wilder had been targeted in conservative media for her pro-Palestinian rights activism while a student at Stanford University , where she graduated in 2020 . <p> AP spokeswoman Lauren Easton would not say what Wilder had written that violated the policy . Wilder said she was n't given specifics . <p> Her Twitter feed since joining the AP contains a few retweets that appear sympathetic to Palestinians in the current Gaza conflict , including a video clip of demonstrators chanting , " Free , free Palestine ! " <p> On Sunday , she tweeted : " ' objectivity ' feels fickle when the basic terms we use to report news implicitly take a claim . using ' Israel ' but never ' palestine , ' or ' war ' but not ' siege and occupation ' are political choices -- yet media make those exact choices all the time without being flagged as biased . " <p> AP prohibits employees from openly expressing their opinions on political matters and other public issues for fear that could damage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many reporters around the world . <p> " We have this policy so the comments of one person can not create dangerous conditions for our journalists covering the story , " Easton said . " Every AP journalist is responsible for safeguarding our ability to report on this conflict , or any other , with fairness and credibility , and can not take sides in public forums . " <p> In an interview , Wilder said that she had received social media training from the AP and had taken it seriously . She said she had even taken down a reference to supporting Black Lives Matter from her Twitter profile . <p> " Because I have an opinion about an issue that is deeply political and personal does n't mean that I am incapable of fact-based , contextual and fair journalism , " she said . <p> On Monday , two days before her firing , a Twitter post from Stanford Republicans had criticized Wilder , who is Jewish , as an " anti-Israel agitator " while on campus . They posted a 2019 article she had written in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " a little turd . " Shapiro has been fiercely critical of the Palestinians . <p> On Tuesday , an article in the Washington Free Beacon was headlined , " AP Hires Anti-Israel Activist as News Associate . AP 's Objectivity in Question Amid Revelations it Shared Office Space with Hamas . " It was picked up in other forums , including the Fox News website . <p> Over the past few days , AP itself has been criticized by some conservative figures following the Israel airstrike last Saturday that destroyed the building that housed the news agency 's offices in Gaza . The AP has said it had no knowledge that Hamas operated out of the building , as Israel claimed . <p> Following the bombing , the AP sent a memo to its staff members reminding them of its policy against expressing opinions on contentious public issues . The message was repeated on Monday . <p> Janine Zacharia , Wilder 's journalism professor at Stanford and a former Jerusalem bureau chief for The Washington Post , said she could not understand why the AP did n't just discuss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . <p> Zacharia said she believes that Wilder 's activism in college was the real issue and worries about the message that the AP is sending . Many one-time activists put their passion into journalism , as Wilder did as an intern at The Arizona Republic , she said . <p> " What happens if you were a college activist and then decide that you want to become a journalist ? " she said . " Does this mean that you ca n't ? " <p> Social media and the generation that has grown up with it have posed challenges at news organizations as they try to uphold standards of objectivity . The AP maintains that 's important for an organization whose calling card is fairness . <p> " It 's important to recognize that for an organization like the AP , there are colleagues all over the world covering every possible topic , " said Kathleen Carroll , the organization 's former executive editor and now chairwoman of the Committee to Protect Journalists . <p> " That 's why journalists covered by the social media policy need to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their colleagues to work freely , " Carroll said . " What may be personal expression to one person is right at the heart of a story to a colleague somewhere else . " <p> The AP stressed that the firing was based on what Wilder had done while employed at the news organization , and had no further comment . <p> As for the news organization 's use of terminology , the AP Stylebook urges against references to " Palestine " because it is not a fully independent , unified state . The AP has made references to Israeli occupation and said that Gaza -- and Israel -- have been under siege during the latest fighting . <p> Notice : Your email may not yet have been verified . Please check your email , click the link to verify your address , and then submit your comment . If you ca n't find this email , access your profile editor to re-send the confirmation email . You must have a verified email to submit a comment . Once you have done so , check again . 
@@52754049 <p> Signs shown at a Saturday rally in support of Palestine . Photo by From a statement by the Centre for Israel and Jewish Affairs <h> Article content <p> Rocks were thrown at pro-Israeli demonstrators in Montreal and Jewish communities in western Canada are reporting roving vehicles seeking out " Jews . " <p> Conflict in Gaza is always apt to stoke ill will against the Canadian Jewish diaspora , but ever since a new round of Hamas-fired rockets began streaking towards Israel in late April , Jewish leaders are reporting that anti-Semitic hatred has taken a particularly sinister turn . <p> We apologize , but this video has failed to load . <p> Try refreshing your browser . <h> ' A very different tone this time ' : Canadian Jewish leaders warn of spike in anti-Semitic violence Back to video <p> " There is a very different tone this time , " said Adam Zepp , an engineer and lifelong member of the Edmonton Jewish community . In a YouTube video , Zepp described being in front of his parents ' home over the weekend when two men in a black Audi yelled " free Palestine ! " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here ? " <p> We apologize , but this video has failed to load . <p> Try refreshing your browser . <h> Advertisement <p> Story continues below <p> This advertisement has not loaded yet , but your article continues below . <h> Article content <p> Last week , the Hamas-led government of the Gaza Strip began firing barrages of untargeted rockets into Israeli territory , prompting Israeli military retaliation . While many rockets have been intercepted by Israel 's " Iron Dome " system , the attacks have killed nine civilians to date . Israeli strikes have killed an estimated 200 in the Gaza Strip , of which Israel has said 130 are Hamas militants . <p> Toronto Police laid two charges -- one for assault and another for bringing a weapon to a public meeting -- following a pro-Palestinian demonstration that drew more than 5,000 people to Nathan Phillips Square outside City Hall on Saturday night . A widely circulated video showed 64-year-old Greg Nisan of Thornhill , Ont. , being struck by masked men ostensibly while attempting to leave the area alone -- although subsequent videos revealed that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demonstrators facing off with Palestinian supporters . <p> In Montreal , demonstrators kicked in the windows of the building housing the Israeli consulate and , in a separate incident , a video posted by Journal de Montreal reporter Francis Pilon showed demonstrators carrying Israeli flags fleeing Dorchester Square to escape what Pilon identified as rocks thrown in their direction . Montreal Police also reported projectiles thrown at police . Ultimately , four arrests were made at the protest ; one for mischief for breaking the window , one for assaulting a police officer and two for armed assault of a police officer . <h> Advertisement <p> This advertisement has not loaded yet , but your article continues below . <h> Article content <p> The video was circulated by Montreal-area Liberal MP Anthony Housefather with the note " this is NOT the Montreal and Canada that I know and love . " <p> In a statement the Centre for Israeli and Jewish Affairs warned of " a wave of violence and anti-Semitism impacting communities across Canada . " The centre posted images of protest signs in Toronto equating Israel with Nazi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spotted driving around the campus of Wilfrid Laurier University flying an Israeli flag desecrated with swastikas . <p> The Toronto violence prompted condemnations from both Mayor John Tory and Ontario Premier Doug Ford . " Any violence against our city 's Jewish community or members of any other community in Toronto is absolutely unacceptable , " wrote Tory on Sunday . Ford said the behaviour " is totally reprehensible and should be investigated by the police . " <p> Hate , anti-Semitism and violence have no place in our city . Any violence against our city 's Jewish community or members of any other community in Toronto is absolutely unacceptable . **26;1421;TOOLONG <h> Advertisement <p> This advertisement has not loaded yet , but your article continues below . <h> Article content <p> Prime Minister Justin Trudeau condemned the " despicable rhetoric and violence we saw on display in some protests this weekend . " <p> The last time Israel and Gaza saw open conflict was in 2014 . After Hamas kidnapped and murdered three Israeli teenagers , the Israeli Defence Forces responded with attacks on Hamas leadership , prompting Hamas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ territory . <p> At the time , multiple Canadian cities saw street encounters between pro-Palestinian and pro-Israeli demonstrators . Although there were reports of skirmishes , there was nothing serious enough to yield charges or a police investigation . Notably , after a woman strode into a Montreal pro-Palestinian rally carrying an Israeli flag and saying the Jewish state had a right to defend itself , a fellow demonstrator disarmed attempts to tear away the flag by hugging the woman and telling her that everyone is hoping for peace . <p> If the political temperature seems higher , Zepp blames much the presence of much more prominent anti-Israeli rhetoric on social media . " I do n't recall back in 2014 words like ' genocide ' or ' colonialism ' or ' ethnic cleansing ' being thrown around , " he said . <p> Last week , American model Bella Hadid , whose father is Palestinian , wrote an Instagram post to her 42.4 million followers reading " this is about Israeli colonization , ethnic cleansing , military occupation and apartheid over the Palestinian people that has been going on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ <p> Do n't ever tell me again that social media favors Jewish people . It 's been at least 3 days since I 've reported all these tweets , which are just a sampling of what 's still up . **26;1449;TOOLONG <h> Advertisement <p> Story continues below <p> This advertisement has not loaded yet , but your article continues below . <h> Article content <p> Although Twitter has banned multiple U.S. public figures for alleged incitement to violence -- most notably former U.S. president Donald Trump -- the social media platform has been criticized for appearing much more sanguine about posts targeting Israel and the broader Jewish community . A May 11 Tweet by Iran 's Supreme Leader Ali Khameni , for instance , praised the renewal of rocket attacks with the line " Palestinians are awake and determined ... one can only talk with the language of power with these criminals . " Freelance CNN contributor Adeel Raja similarly remains on the platform after tweeting " the world today needs a Hitler " -- although CNN has since severed links with the Islamabad-based journalist . <p> On Sunday , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a public statement denouncing anti-Semitism following videos and witness accounts of a motorcade of cars moving through Jewish areas of North London broadcasting messages including " fuck the Jews " and " rape their daughters . " <h> Share this article in your social network <h> Share this Story : ' A very different tone this time ' : Canadian Jewish leaders warn of spike in anti-Semitic violence <h> Latest National Stories <h> Advertisement <p> Story continues below <p> This advertisement has not loaded yet , but your article continues below . <h> News Near Grande Prairie <h> This Week in Flyers <h> Comments <p> Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles . Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site . We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful . We have enabled email notifications -- you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment , there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ information and details on how to adjust your email settings . <h> Notice for the Postmedia Network <p> This website uses cookies to personalize your content ( including ads ) , and allows us to analyze our traffic . Read more about cookies here . By continuing to use our site , you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy . 
@@52754082 <h> You are here <h> Palestinian movement finds hope in a new alternative <p> Each new round of hell in Israel-Palestine looks from here like a nightmare on a loop . Yet there 's one element that makes me bristle as if for the first time : calling it a war . " This is the fourth time in 12 years Israel and Gaza 's Hamas rulers have gone to war . " " As Israel and Hamas plunged closer to all-out war ... " <p> This is war the way I 'm Auston Matthews . The way Bill Gates is Nelson Mandela . You can find the stupidest similarities if you really struggle . But Israel is among the world 's mightiest military powers , usually in the top 20 and one of only nine with a nuclear arsenal . Hamas has basically a militia who scuttle through tunnels and fire rockets that rarely hit anything , though when they do you 'll be just as dead and usually an innocent civilian . <p> Yes , Israel has the right to defend itself , but its " self " -- in the sense of its sovereignty , its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ -- is n't remotely threatened by Hamas . War ? I think not . More like Gangs of Gaza , to which you 'd appropriately respond with the gang squad , not the air force . <p> Yet metaphorically , war resonates . The brilliant Palestinian-American Edward Said wrote 40 years ago that Western mass media -- which dominated everywhere , including among Arabs and Muslims -- had imposed an image of Arab-Muslims that reduced them all to terrorists and threats to the West ( think " True Lies " ) . Yet some of those people " tragically " mimicked those grotesque , inflicted reflections of themselves . Why ? It was better to exist , even in ugly , imposed terms , than not exist at all . ( There are various academic expansions of this theory . ) War , concluded Said , " seemed an extremely logical outcome . " <p> But not for everyone , even before Al-Jazeera and social media arrived to dilute the impact of those Western mass media tropes . I happened to talk this week with Dr. Izzeldin Abuelaish , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in their bedroom from Israeli shelling in that year 's " war . " His response was a book called I Shall Not Hate . He now lives here with his five surviving ( thriving ) kids . He may be the most radical person I know . His every breath , from creating institutions to whom he invites to dinner , is about proving Israelis and Palestinians need n't hate each other . And stubborn ? Do n't ask . <p> I asked if he still supports a Palestinian state alongside Israel . " We have to be able to change , " he said . Israel 's expansion in the occupied areas has made that impossible . He 's joined those favouring a single state with equal rights for all . ( Palestinians and Israeli Jews have roughly equal numbers in the overall territory . ) <p> This marks a transition from national liberation and independence to an inclusive society in which Palestinian Lives Matter . It 's indeed inspired by the campaign around George Floyd , whose image there is widespread on murals , especially on Israel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , you must at a minimum not overtly hate or make war on your potential fellow citizens . This is something new in that wretched loop , the first time Palestinians focus not on political sovereignty but on a common humanity with the other side -- though there are precedents , like the Ihud movement of the 1940s , led by Martin Buber . <p> It stymies Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , who , IMO , engineered this eruption as a way to retain the power he was about to lose . He based it on an earlier provocation on the Temple Mount , which led to the second intefadeh , and it worked . He 'll likely remain PM , but at the cost of helping regenerate the Palestinian movement . <p> It turns out that the collapse of the Palestinian dream of their own state -- which Israel used its power to obliterate -- leaves Palestinians not desolated but reinvigorated , and more united than ever . Their resistance has surfaced in Jerusalem , the West Bank , Gaza and Israel itself , among its 20 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because there 's a new alternative . <p> It goes beyond their stubborn refusal to fade away , which was necessary but not sufficient . When hopes collapse , what 's needed is an alternate , credible version of hope . It 's ironic that The Hope is also the name of Israel 's national anthem -- or maybe not . Plausible hope is what every movement needs . <p> Rick Salutin writes about current affairs and politics . This column was first published in the Toronto Star . <p> More people are reading rabble.ca than ever and unlike many news organizations , we have never put up a paywall -- at rabble we 've always believed in making our reporting and analysis free to all , while striving to make it sustainable as well . Media is n't free to produce . rabble 's total budget is likely less than what big corporate media spend on photocopying ( we kid you not ! ) and we do not have any major foundation , sponsor or angel investor . Our main supporters are people and organizations -- like you . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what keep us sustainable . <p> rabble.ca has staked its existence on you . We live or die on community support -- your support ! We get hundreds of thousands of visitors and we believe in them . We believe in you . We believe people will put in what they can for the greater good . We call that sustainable . <p> So what is the easy answer for us ? Depend on a community of visitors who care passionately about media that amplifies the voices of people struggling for change and justice . It really is that simple . When the people who visit rabble care enough to contribute a bit then it works for everyone . <p> And so we 're asking you if you could make a donation , right now , to help us carry forward on our mission . Make a donation today . 
@@52756902 <h> Luke Voit <h> Latest Stories <p> VANCOUVER -- A COVID-19 outbreak has been declared on an acute care unit at Richmond Hospital . The Vancouver Coastal Health authority says seven patients on the acute care for the elderly unit tested positive for the virus . The unit has been closed to new admissions , transfers and non-essential visits . It does remain open for essential care as well as compassionate visits at the end of life . The health authority says the unit will be subject to enhanced cleaning , and both staff and patients will be closely monitored . B.C. recorded 420 new COVID-19 cases and six virus-related deaths on Friday , bringing the provincial case count to 141,373 since the onset of the pandemic . . This report by The Canadian Press was first published May 22 , 2021 . The Canadian Press <p> The Saskatchewan Health Authority says a person infectious with COVID-19 was at the Dairy Queen in Shellbrook on six different days earlier this month . An alert issued on Friday identified possible exposure during the following days and hours at the restaurant , located at the junction of highways 3 and 55 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . CST . May 8 , from 4 p.m. to 9:30 p.m . CST . May 9 , from 4:30 p.m. to 9:30 p.m . CST . May 10 , from 5 p.m. to 9 p.m . CST . May 14 , from 4 p.m. to 9 p.m . CST May 16 , from 3 p.m. to 7:30 p.m . CST . Anyone present at the Dairy Queen during those times is asked to immediately self-isolate for 14 days following the date of exposure . Anyone who has developed symptoms of COVID-19 is asked to call the 811 HealthLine , their physician or nurse practitioner . Symptoms of COVID-19 include the following , and can develop between two and 14 days after exposure : Fever . Cough . Headache . Muscle and or joint aches and pains . Sore throat . Chills . Runny nose . Nasal congestion . Conjunctivitis . Dizziness . Fatigue . Nausea or vomiting . Diarrhea . Loss of appetite or difficulty feeding for children . Loss of taste or smell . Shortness of breath . Difficulty breathing . <p> HALFMOON BAY , B.C. -- Documentary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ NDP candidate in a riding in southern British Columbia . Lewis , the grandson of former federal NDP leader David Lewis and the son of former Ontario NDP leader Stephen Lewis , is looking to flip the West Vancouver-Sunshine Coast-Sea to Sky Country riding from the Liberals . The candidacy was confirmed at a virtual nomination event on Saturday , with NDP Leader Jagmeet Singh in attendance along with David Suzuki and Jane Fonda . The NDP finished fourth in the riding in the 2019 election . Lewis is married to author Naomi Klein and they co-wrote the Leap Manifesto , the principles of which were adopted by the NDP in 2016 . The manifesto advocates an end to the use of fossil fuels , including a moratorium on new infrastructure projects like pipelines . This report by The Canadian Press was first published May 22 , 2021 . The Canadian Press <p> VANCOUVER -- Police say a hiker has died after becoming separated from a friend during a hike in North Vancouver . North Vancouver RCMP say two friends were hiking in the area of Mt . Fromme on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ returned to their vehicle and called police , prompting a search . The missing man was located Saturday morning , a short distance from where the pair had become separated . Police say it appears to be a " tragic accident . " North Shore Rescue said in a statement posted to social media that the area does not have a flagged or established trail , and is densely forested with thick brush . This report by The Canadian Press was first published May 22 , 2021 . The Canadian Press <p> Recent developments : Ottawa reported 78 new COVID-19 cases and two more deaths Saturday . Select outdoor activities like golf , tennis and splash pads reopen today . Children 12 and older can book their vaccines starting tomorrow . More vaccine appointments will be made available Sunday , the city says . What 's the latest ? Ottawa Public Health ( OPH ) reported 78 new cases of COVID-19 and two more deaths on Saturday . Another 22 new cases were logged in western Quebec , as well as another two deaths . Starting today , the province @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , tennis courts , archery ranges and splash pads . Outdoor gatherings of up to five people will be allowed . Tomorrow at 8 a.m. , youths aged 12 and over in Ontario are eligible to receive a COVID-19 vaccine . More appointments will open up in Ottawa at that time , and the city is also expanding its community clinic operations to include the St-Laurent Complex on Cot ? Street . If you got the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine for your first shot and are wondering when you 'll be able to get a second , details are starting to emerge about Ontario 's plan . A family in Kanata is keeping their Christmas tree up all year to help ward off the pandemic blues . They 've decorated three birthday trees , a Valentine 's Day tree , an Easter tree , and this weekend they 've decked the branches for the Victoria Day long weekend . WATCH Christmas tree has become an ' every occasion ' tree for this family : How many cases are there ? The region is coming down from a record-breaking peak of the pandemic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coronavirus variants . The rate of spread is still high . As of Saturday , 26,503 , Ottawa residents have tested positive for COVID-19 . There are 935 known active cases , 25,021 resolved cases and 547 deaths . Public health officials have reported more than 48,200 COVID-19 cases across eastern Ontario and western Quebec , including more than 45,800 resolved cases . Elsewhere in eastern Ontario , 185 people have died . In western Quebec , the death toll is 211 . Akwesasne has had 690 residents test positive , four of them active , and 10 deaths between its northern and southern sections . Kitigan Zibi has had 34 cases . Tyendinaga Mohawk Territory has had 11 , with one death . Pikwakanagan has n't had any . The transfer of COVID-19 patients from other regions to Ottawa hospitals continues . As of the most recent update Friday , there were 20 COVID-19 patients from other communities in Ottawa ICUs . CBC Ottawa is profiling those who 've died of COVID-19 . If you 'd like to share your loved one 's story , please get in touch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is under a stay-at-home order until at least June 2 . Its reopening plan leans on rates of spread and vaccination ; the target for it to begin is mid-June . For now , people should only leave home for essential reasons like getting groceries , seeking health care and exercising in their immediate area . The vast majority of gatherings are prohibited . Exceptions include small activities with households and small religious services . As of Saturday , many closed recreation venues can reopen and the outdoor gathering limit rises to five people , including from different households . However , Ottawa has had to reverse its plan to reopen splash pads . Ontario has moved to online learning . Daycares remain open and the plan is to open summer camps . Most non-essential businesses can only offer curbside pickup . Access to malls is restricted and big-box stores can only sell essential items . Gyms and personal care services are closed , while restaurants are only available for takeout and delivery . Police checkpoints between Ontario and Quebec are not running 24/7 . Officers in Ontario have the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 've gathered illegally . Local health units and communities can also set their own rules , as Ottawa is doing around playgrounds and the Belleville area is doing for the agriculture industry . Western Quebec Western Quebec is under red zone rules . It has a plan to gradually reopen , starting with the curfew lifting and outdoor gatherings and dining returning on May 28 . For now , high schools , gyms , theatres , personal care services and non-essential businesses can open with restrictions . The curfew is in place from 9:30 p.m. until 5 a.m . Tulips bloom at the National War Memorial at the northern end of Elgin Street in Ottawa in mid-May 2021 . ( David Richard/Radio-Canada ) Private gatherings remain banned , except for a person who lives alone seeing one other household . Small religious services are allowed and people can go to theatres . Older secondary school students will be going to classrooms every second day . Distanced outdoor exercise is allowed in groups up to eight people . People ca n't travel to yellow or green zones or risk a fine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ droplets that can hang in the air . People can be contagious without symptoms , even after getting a vaccine . Coronavirus variants of concern are more contagious and are now established . This means it is important to take precautions now and in the future like staying home while sick -- and getting help with costs if needed -- keeping hands and surfaces clean and maintaining distance from anyone you do n't live with , even with a mask on . Children play in the water at Parc Moussette in Gatineau , Que. , during the COVID-19 pandemic . ( Jonathan Dupaul/CBC ) Masks , preferably ones that fit snugly and have three layers , are mandatory in indoor public settings in Ontario and Quebec . OPH says residents should wear masks outside their homes whenever possible . People have to show proof of a recent negative COVID-19 test to enter Canada by land without a fine and have to pay for their stay in a quarantine hotel if entering by air . Canada has extended its ban on direct flights from India and Pakistan until June 21 Anyone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 've been ordered to do so by their public health unit . The length varies in Quebec and Ontario . Health Canada recommends older adults and people with underlying medical conditions get help with errands . Vaccines Four COVID-19 vaccines have been deemed safe and approved in Canada . Ontario and Quebec have both stopped giving first doses of the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine , but plan to give second doses . Canada 's task force said first doses offer such strong protection that people can wait up to four months to get a second . About 1,100,000 doses have been given out in the Ottawa-Gatineau region since mid-December , including more than 500,000 doses to Ottawa residents and about 225,000 in western Quebec . Eastern Ontario Ontario is vaccinating people 18 and older and 17-year-olds turning 18 in 2021 . People can look for provincial appointments opening up online or over the phone at 1-833-943-3900 . Pharmacies continue to offer vaccines through their own booking systems as supply allows . The very first people who got an AstraZeneca vaccine can book a second dose starting Monday . The province 's goal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with more details to come on other recipients . Ontario plans to allow everyone over age 12 to make an appointment starting the week of May 31 . Individual health units and First Nations can choose to vaccinate that age group now at pop-up clinics . Local health units have flexibility in the larger framework , including around booking , so check their websites for details . Some offer standby lists for first doses . Western Quebec Quebec is vaccinating everyone age 18 and older . Teens age 16 and 17 are eligible if they have certain jobs or a chronic illness or disability . A walk-in clinic continues in Gatineau 's Palais des Congr ? s today . The province plans to reach children as young as 12 starting Tuesday . It expects to have given a first dose to 75 per cent of adults by June 15 and is looking at 75 per cent of people age 12 and up getting their second dose by the end of August . People who qualify can make an appointment online or over the phone . Symptoms and testing COVID-19 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infection , with common symptoms including fever , a cough , vomiting and loss of taste or smell . Children tend to have an upset stomach and/or a rash . If you have severe symptoms , call 911 . Mental health can also be affected by the pandemic , and resources are available to help . In eastern Ontario : Anyone seeking a test should make an appointment . Check with your health unit for clinic locations and hours . Ontario recommends only getting tested if you fit certain criteria , such as having symptoms , exposure or a certain job . People without symptoms but who are part of the province 's targeted testing strategy can make an appointment at select pharmacies . Shoppers Drug Mart stores can now offer rapid tests . Travellers who need a test have very few local options to pay for one . In western Quebec : Tests are strongly recommended for people with symptoms and their contacts . People can make an appointment and check wait times online . Call 1-877-644-4545 with questions , including if walk-in testing is available nearby . First @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nations , Inuit and M ? t is people , or someone travelling to work in a remote Indigenous community , are eligible for a test in Ontario . Akwesasne has a COVID-19 test site by appointment only and a curfew of 11 p.m. to 5 a.m . Anyone returning to the community on the Canadian side of the international border who 's been farther than 160 kilometres away -- or visited Montreal -- for non-essential reasons is asked to self-isolate for 14 days . People in Pikwakanagan can book a COVID-19 test by calling 613-625-1175 . Anyone in Tyendinaga who 's interested in a test can call 613-967-3603 and in Kitigan Zibi , 819-449-5593 . Tyendinaga 's council is asking people not to travel there to camp or fish . Inuit in Ottawa can call the Akausivik Inuit Family Health Team at 613-740-0999 for service , including testing and vaccines , in Inuktitut or English on weekdays . For more information <p> Canadians are very lucky . Just a few months after the vaccination campaign was assailed by politicians and pundits as a disaster , this country of 38 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vaccine as of Thursday morning . Millions more doses are expected in the coming weeks . Canada caught up to the United States this week in terms of the share of the population that has received a first dose . In terms of total doses administered per capita , Canada ranks third in the G20 and seventh among the 37 OECD countries . According to a tally posted this week by Blake Shaffer , an economist at the University of Calgary , Canada ranked 13th among the 151 countries in the world with more than a million people in terms of doses administered . Canadians can feel good about their luck . But any celebrations should be tempered by the knowledge that not everyone is so fortunate -- and the fact that COVID-19 will remain a threat as long as it 's circulating anywhere . " Just because you 're born somewhere in a country that has fewer resources does n't mean that you should n't have access to life-saving treatments , " International Development Minister Karina Gould said in an interview that will air Sunday morning on the CBC @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have to live up to those words . And now that there are fewer countries ahead of Canada in the race for vaccines , it might be easier for Canadians to see how many countries have always been behind us . Vaccine anxiety in early 2021 The panic of a few months ago was not entirely unwarranted . Even if an every-country-for-itself scramble is a terrible way to vaccinate the world 's population against a global threat , Canadians could be forgiven for wanting their government to perform respectably in an unseemly competition . But the most catastrophic forecasts were obviously premature and the metrics for measuring success needed to be properly calibrated . There was never much sense , for instance , in comparing Canada to places like the Seychelles , a country of 100,000 people that used a Chinese vaccine that is not approved for use here . It 's also fair to ask whether the federal government should have done some things differently to ensure a faster or more plentiful supply -- though there 's still no widespread agreement on what those things could have been . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get the first dose of their COVID-19 vaccine in Toronto on April 24 , 2021 . ( Alan Habbick/CBC ) But the experience of these last six months showed Canadians how fickle global vaccination can be . Some countries -- like the United States , the United Kingdom and Israel -- enjoyed advantages that were not easily replicated . Canada 's supply was briefly impaired because a factory in Belgium was shut down for retooling . Underneath the panic was an unacknowledged question : Why should the average Canadian be more entitled to a vaccine than the average citizen of any other country on Earth ? Wealth has its privileges " I think it 's a time for Canadians to be feeling grateful and understanding the privilege that we hold as one of the wealthier nations , " said Ananya Tina Banerjee , a professor in the department of epidemiology , biostatistics and occupational health at McGill University . Banerjee -- who has family in India , the current global epicentre of the pandemic -- tweeted this week that immunization should not be framed as a " vaccine Olympics " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is measured on a continental basis , the disparities become glaring . In North America , 56.4 doses have been administered per 100 people , according to tracking by Our World In Data . Europe is second with 41.4 doses . A Kashmiri doctor in a protective suit takes a nasal swab sample of a nomad to test for COVID-19 in Budgam , southwest of Srinagar , Indian controlled Kashmir , Tuesday , May 18 , 2021 . ( Dar Yasin/AP ) For South America , the rate falls to 23.3 doses . In Asia , it 's 17.6 doses . In Africa , just 1.97 doses have been administered per 100 people . Measured by wealth , high-income countries have administered 52.3 doses per 100 people , while low-income countries have administered 0.64 . Robyn Christine Waite , director of policy and advocacy for Results Canada , said this sort of inequity is not unique to COVID-19 . " There have long been deadly divides between higher and lower income countries in health outcomes and access to services such as the tools needed to control and treat disease , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say is that the pandemic has definitely shone a massive light on the inequities . " In the case of HIV and AIDS , for instance , antiretroviral drugs came to Africa long after such treatments had been available in North America and Europe . Enlightened self-interest Waite suggested that COVID-19 could be " pushed to the corners of the world " eventually and forgotten about in wealthy countries , becoming a " neglected disease of poverty " like AIDS , malaria or tuberculosis . Mitchell Hammond , a history professor at the University of Victoria , said earlier outbreaks of diseases like smallpox and polio provide examples of what we would now call " vaccine diplomacy " by the United States and former Soviet Union . At the moment , the immediate and ongoing crises within their own borders has made it harder for some countries to assist others , though China has emerged a significant exporter of vaccines . But Hammond identified two distinctions that might motivate wealthy nations to do even more now : the interconnectedness of the modern world and the fact that COVID-19 has shown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Beyond the obvious moral argument , this is an argument for self-interest . Until COVID-19 is eliminated everywhere , it threatens everyone . A doctor tends to a patient on oxygen suffering from COVID-19 in a ward for coronavirus patients at the Martini hospital in Mogadishu , Somalia on Wednesday , Feb. 24 , 2021 . ( Farah Abdi Warsameh/AP ) Canada contributed $440 million to COVAX ( a program that allows high-income countries to purchase vaccines for themselves and lower-income countries ) and $1.3 billion to the G20 's Access to COVID-19 Tools ( ACT ) Accelerator , which distributes vaccines as well as other supplies . Wealthy countries , including Canada , are also under pressure to waive intellectual property rights to vaccines and assist in the transfer of technology . Canadians themselves already have benefited from vaccine-sharing . In March , the United States agreed to lend Canada 1.5 million doses of AstraZeneca 's vaccine . Before that , Canada accepted some of its allotted doses from COVAX . In an ideal world , the global vaccination effort might have been coordinated through a program like COVAX @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pharmaceutical companies have been accused of undermining COVAX . The Trudeau government has promised to share Canada 's excess doses and Gould told Rosemary Barton Live that there might be more to say about that " fairly soon . " As Waite suggests , Canada could now defer or forgo the rest of its COVAX allotment . To date , Canada has received approximately 900,000 doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine through COVAX . That would leave another million doses due to arrive in the weeks ahead . " Procurement Minister Anita Anand should make that happen ASAP , " Waite said . With the country now enjoying the good fortune of a solid supply of vaccines , Canadians should be prepared to help the rest of the world catch up . <p> Lestrade the cat drinks from his favourite source of water - the tub faucet . He goes into a trance and will burp if he drinks too fast . It 's worth the occasional bits of litter and fluff that his owner has to clean ! <p> Since Ontario halted the distribution of first doses of the AstraZeneca-Oxford @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left to wonder when they 'll get a second dose . Dr. David Williams , Ontario 's chief medical officer of health , now has a few answers . Who is eligible ? On Friday , Williams announced the province will soon be distributing some 55,000 doses set to expire May 31 . Eligible Ontarians are those who were among the first cohort aged 60 to 64 vaccinated between March 10 and 19 as part of a pilot project involving 325 pharmacies in Toronto , Windsor and Kingston . Physicians in six public health units -- Hamilton , Toronto , Wellington-Dufferin Guelph , Peterborough , Simcoe Muskoka and Peel -- also distributed vaccines during the pilot . How do I get my dose ? People eligible for the second dose should reach out to the location where they received the first one . Some participating pharmacies may also begin sending out notifications directly , said Justin Bates with the Ontario Pharmacists Association ( OPA ) . Not all of the 325 original pharmacies will be giving out second doses , said Bates . According to the OPA , anyone whose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reach out to another that is taking part . Is it safe to get the dose now ? There 's growing research about the best time to get the second AstraZeneca shot . The latest suggests the vaccine is at its peak efficacy after 12 weeks , reaching 89 per cent effectiveness against COVID-19 and rivalling the rates of the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines . But next week 's rollout plan would see those vaccinated on March 19 getting a second dose with only a 10-week interval , placing efficacy closer to 70 to 75 per cent . Williams said the difference is " negligible , " but people should consult with a health-care provider or pharmacist in order to make an informed decision . The second doses of AstraZeneca will initially be given out to those who got their first shot March 10-19 . ( Jeff McIntosh/Canadian Press ) As for severe adverse effects , the risk of a blood clot from a second dose of AstraZeneca is one in approximately 600,000 , said Williams . That 's significantly lower than the risk from a first dose . Are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the OPA estimates 90,000 Ontarians received a dose at a pharmacy during March 10-19 . " So it will really depend on , out of those 90,000 people , how many are actually going to want to get the AstraZeneca second dose early at the ten-week interval , " said Bates . In addition to the expiring doses , however , the province has also been receiving some 254,500 new doses of AstraZeneca this month . Williams said anyone was first immunized between March 10-19 and does not get their second dose next week can book that dose for the twelfth week after their first shot . Can I get a Pfizer or Moderna 2nd dose ? Not yet . Williams said the province is still waiting for advice from the National Advisory Committee on Immunization ( NACI ) . Early research suggests that a second shot of an mNRA vaccine like Pfizer or Moderna as the booster for AstraZeneca is not dangerous , but Williams said he 's waiting to hear whether the combination offers the same efficacy as a second AstraZeneca dose . A recommendation from NACI @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ AstraZeneca after March 19 ? Ontarians vaccinated with AstraZeneca before March 19 represent a little over 10 per cent of the province 's total AstraZeneca recipients . Williams said the plan for those vaccinated after March 19 depends on the science and the supply . " We need about another 750,000 doses , " said Williams , adding future supply is uncertain and that doses could be redistributed among the provinces . If NACI does say it 's OK to replace AstraZeneca with Pfizer or Moderna for the second dose , that could be part of the solution , Williams said . <p> A man was killed in what appears to be a targeted shooting in southwest Calgary on Saturday . Police say they responded to multiple reports of gunshots fired in the 1800 block of 26th Avenue S.W. , in the neighbourhood of South Calgary , at 5:30 p.m . When police arrived , they say they found a man suffering from gunshot wounds in a vehicle parked in the alley behind that block . He was pronounced dead at the scene , police say . Police found a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ block of 31st Avenue S.W. According to witnesses , police say multiple suspects left that flaming vehicle for a blue four-door car and fled . Police respond to a fatal shooting in the neighbourhood of South Calgary on Saturday . ( Terri Trembath/CBC ) As of 7:30 p.m. , police were searching for suspects , speaking with witnesses and searching the area for CCTV . Police are also working with officers in other jurisdictions . Police said it 's believed the shooting was targeted , although the investigation is in its early stages . " The level of violence demonstrated in this incident is extremely concerning to us , " said staff Sgt. Martin Schiavetta of the police homicide unit in an emailed release . " We are dedicating resources from across the service to this investigation to ensure that the individuals involved are held accountable . " An autopsy is scheduled for early next week . Anyone with information is being asked to contact police at 403-266-1234 . <p> FALFURRIAS , Texas ( AP ) -- Every week , migrant rights activist Eduardo Canales fills up blue water drums @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and brush . They are there for migrants who venture into the rough terrain to avoid being caught and sent back to Mexico . The stretch of land 70 miles ( 113 kilometers ) north of the U.S.-Mexico border is dangerous , and many have died . But some migrants -- usually single adults -- are willing to take the risk , walking through the shrub-invaded grasslands on the sprawling ranches , seeking dirt paths to circumvent a U.S. Border Patrol checkpoint on a major highway where agents verify people 's immigration status . " People die here . People get lost . People are never heard of again . They go missing , " said Canales , director of the South Texas Human Rights Center . The Biden administration is dealing with a growing number of single adult migrants crossing the border ; they made up nearly two of every three encounters in April . This elusive group is less likely to surrender to U.S. authorities to seek asylum than families and children , often choosing risky routes away from Border Patrol checkpoints and intake sites , where agents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Patrol 's 173,460 total encounters with migrants last month , 108,301 were single adults , with more than half of them Mexican . The numbers were the highest since April 2000 , but most were quickly expelled from the country under federal pandemic-related powers invoked last year by then-President Donald Trump and kept in place by President Joe Biden . Unlike deportations , expulsions carry no legal consequences , and many migrants try crossing multiple times . The Border Patrol says 29% of people expelled in April had been expelled before . In Brooks County in the Rio Grande Valley , the busiest corridor for illegal crossings , local officials have recovered 40 bodies of migrants in the brush so far this year . In all of 2020 , they found 34 bodies , though the coronavirus pandemic vastly reduced the numbers of people coming to the United States . The Border Patrol keeps its own statistics , which tend to be lower than those tracked by aid groups and local officials because it only counts the remains of migrants it comes across . Officials this year have found the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her as a fruit packer for the banana company Chiquita as well as a Mexican man who appeared to have worked at a factory . Sometimes , sheriff 's deputies only find skeletal remains . Brooks County sheriff 's Patrol Deputy Roberto Castanon said he thinks this year has been particularly busy for migrants walking this treacherous stretch to elude capture . While agents try to count how many people avoid apprehension , it 's difficult to do in the Rio Grande Valley . Its often thick brush has traditionally not had many sensors . The Border Patrol 's most trusted method of counting how many people get away relies on observing tiny human traces : dusty footprints , torn cobwebs , broken twigs , overturned pebbles . Castanon says the Border Patrol used to have a heavier enforcement presence around the highway checkpoint , but they appear to have been deployed to help with the increasing numbers of families and children crossing the Rio Grande and surrendering to agents to claim asylum . The Border Patrol did not immediately respond to a question on the staffing changes . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Castanon said . But it 's not that simple . Smugglers can leave migrants to walk long distances in this dangerous area , anywhere from 15 to 50 miles ( 24 to 80 kilometers ) , with temperatures sometimes reaching above 100 degrees ( 38 Celsius ) . Some migrants have been able to make emergency calls to aid groups , which coordinate with local officials or the Border Patrol on rescues . This month , a woman near Van Horn , Texas , felt she was close to dying because of a lack of water but was able to call an aid group tied to Canales that alerted officials . They were able to trace the coordinates to the call and find her . " Some do n't even make it . They die of lack of water , food , health , collapse and stay there until somebody stumbles upon their bodies , and that 's when they call us to pick them up , " said Castanon , the deputy . Canales ' aid group and others have worked to build trust with the community of ranchers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ path north of the border . " People have a humanitarian nature in them . They may have very conservative politics , but they do n't want to see people die , " Canales said . The advocate compared the region full of ranches with the desert in Arizona , where deaths of migrants have long been a problem . Last summer 's record heat and dry weather in Arizona were the main causes behind the 227 deaths counted by a migrant aid group , the highest in a decade . Local officials are expecting to find more bodies as summer nears , temperatures rise and expulsions continue . " We 've got a large group of volunteers coming in to build more water stations , " Canales said . " We need to figure that out because a lot of people are dying . " Eugene Garcia And Adriana Gomez Licon , The Associated Press <p> The latest numbers on COVID-19 vaccinations in Canada as of 4:00 a.m . ET on Saturday , May 22 , 2021 . In Canada , the provinces are reporting 487,993 new vaccinations administered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1,580,997 people or 4.2 per cent of the population has been fully vaccinated . The provinces have administered doses at a rate of 53,639.503 per 100,000 . There were 410,670 new vaccines delivered to the provinces and territories for a total of 23,343,094 doses delivered so far . The provinces and territories have used 87.09 per cent of their available vaccine supply . Please note that Newfoundland and Labrador , P.E.I. , Nova Scotia , New Brunswick and the territories typically do not report on a daily basis . Newfoundland and Labrador is reporting 35,460 new vaccinations administered over the past seven days for a total of 260,919 doses given . The province has administered doses at a rate of 498.288 per 1,000 . In the province , 1.97 per cent ( 10,321 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were zero new vaccines delivered to Newfoundland and Labrador for a total of 316,090 doses delivered so far . The province has received enough of the vaccine to give 60 per cent of its population a single dose . The province has used 82.55 per cent of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vaccinations administered over the past seven days for a total of 78,817 doses given . The province has administered doses at a rate of 496.864 per 1,000 . In the province , 7.66 per cent ( 12,156 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were zero new vaccines delivered to P.E.I. for a total of 93,105 doses delivered so far . The province has received enough of the vaccine to give 59 per cent of its population a single dose . The province has used 84.65 per cent of its available vaccine supply . Nova Scotia is reporting 67,979 new vaccinations administered over the past seven days for a total of 483,549 doses given . The province has administered doses at a rate of 495.491 per 1,000 . In the province , 4.19 per cent ( 40,900 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were zero new vaccines delivered to Nova Scotia for a total of 572,200 doses delivered so far . The province has received enough of the vaccine to give 59 per cent of its population a single dose . The province @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . New Brunswick is reporting 61,582 new vaccinations administered over the past seven days for a total of 399,709 doses given . The province has administered doses at a rate of 512.421 per 1,000 . In the province , 4.53 per cent ( 35,323 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were zero new vaccines delivered to New Brunswick for a total of 470,385 doses delivered so far . The province has received enough of the vaccine to give 60 per cent of its population a single dose . The province has used 84.97 per cent of its available vaccine supply . Quebec is reporting 110,513 new vaccinations administered for a total of 4,747,192 doses given . The province has administered doses at a rate of 554.796 per 1,000 . There were 410,670 new vaccines delivered to Quebec for a total of 5,595,489 doses delivered so far . The province has received enough of the vaccine to give 65 per cent of its population a single dose . The province has used 84.84 per cent of its available vaccine supply . Ontario is reporting 158,524 new vaccinations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ province has administered doses at a rate of 526.592 per 1,000 . In the province , 3.38 per cent ( 495,757 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were zero new vaccines delivered to Ontario for a total of 8,885,735 doses delivered so far . The province has received enough of the vaccine to give 60 per cent of its population a single dose . The province has used 87.05 per cent of its available vaccine supply . Manitoba is reporting 21,711 new vaccinations administered for a total of 714,012 doses given . The province has administered doses at a rate of 518.526 per 1,000 . In the province , 6.19 per cent ( 85,296 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were zero new vaccines delivered to Manitoba for a total of 833,580 doses delivered so far . The province has received enough of the vaccine to give 61 per cent of its population a single dose . The province has used 85.66 per cent of its available vaccine supply . Saskatchewan is reporting 10,347 new vaccinations administered for a total of 630,583 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rate of 534.776 per 1,000 . In the province , 4.53 per cent ( 53,433 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were zero new vaccines delivered to Saskatchewan for a total of 720,695 doses delivered so far . The province has received enough of the vaccine to give 61 per cent of its population a single dose . The province has used 87.5 per cent of its available vaccine supply . Alberta is reporting 89,111 new vaccinations administered for a total of 2,401,932 doses given . The province has administered doses at a rate of 545.64 per 1,000 . In the province , 7.76 per cent ( 341,610 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were zero new vaccines delivered to Alberta for a total of 2,588,085 doses delivered so far . The province has received enough of the vaccine to give 59 per cent of its population a single dose . The province has used 92.81 per cent of its available vaccine supply . British Columbia is reporting 56,660 new vaccinations administered for a total of 2,744,020 doses given . The province @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the province , 2.78 per cent ( 142,406 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were zero new vaccines delivered to British Columbia for a total of 3,105,610 doses delivered so far . The province has received enough of the vaccine to give 61 per cent of its population a single dose . The province has used 88.36 per cent of its available vaccine supply . Yukon is reporting 224 new vaccinations administered for a total of 51,758 doses given . The territory has administered doses at a rate of 1,240.277 per 1,000 . In the territory , 58.12 per cent ( 24,254 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were zero new vaccines delivered to Yukon for a total of 57,020 doses delivered so far . The territory has received enough of the vaccine to give 140 per cent of its population a single dose . The territory has used 90.77 per cent of its available vaccine supply . The Northwest Territories are reporting zero new vaccinations administered for a total of 51,320 doses given . The territory has administered doses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ territory , 50.89 per cent ( 22,960 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were zero new vaccines delivered to the Northwest Territories for a total of 60,000 doses delivered so far . The territory has received enough of the vaccine to give 130 per cent of its population a single dose . The territory has used 85.53 per cent of its available vaccine supply . Nunavut is reporting zero new vaccinations administered for a total of 30,025 doses given . The territory has administered doses at a rate of 775.319 per 1,000 . In the territory , 34.36 per cent ( 13,305 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were zero new vaccines delivered to Nunavut for a total of 45,100 doses delivered so far . The territory has received enough of the vaccine to give 120 per cent of its population a single dose . The territory has used 66.57 per cent of its available vaccine supply . *Notes on data : The figures are compiled by the COVID-19 Open Data Working Group based on the latest publicly available data and are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , while others report same-day or figures from the previous day . Vaccine doses administered is not equivalent to the number of people inoculated as the approved vaccines require two doses per person . The vaccines are currently not being administered to children under 18 and those with certain health conditions . In some cases the number of doses administered may appear to exceed the number of doses distributed as some provinces have been drawing extra doses per vial . This report was automatically generated by The Canadian Press Digital Data Desk and was first published May 22 , 2021 . The Canadian Press <p> Toronto Maple Leafs captain John Tavares has been cleared of structural damage to his head , neck , and spine , Maple Leafs general manager Kyle Dubas told reporters on Saturday . Tavares was taken off the ice on a stretcher and transported to hospital after colliding with Montreal 's Ben Chiarot in the first period of Thursday night 's Game 1 in Toronto . He was hit in the head by Corey Perry 's knee as he fell . The Leafs said their 30-year-old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at St. Michael 's Hospital and the club 's medical director before being released from hospital on Friday . Dubas said CT scans and MRIs cleared Tavares of structural damage , but he remains out indefinitely with a concussion , and he also suffered a knee injury in the collision , which would have sidelined him for at least two weeks . Montreal won Game 1 of the opening-round series 2-1 on Thursday . Game 2 between the Maple Leafs and Canadiens is set for Saturday night ( 7 p.m . ET , CBC , CBCSports.ca ) . WATCH Graphic Warning : Maple Leafs ' Tavares exits Game 1 on stetcher : MEDIA <p> A large group of protesters marched through Yonge-Dundas Square on Saturday afternoon , drumming and chanting in support of Palestinians in Gaza following 11 days of violent conflict in the Middle East . The demonstration , organized by the Palestinian Youth Movement , began at 3 p.m. in Yonge-Dundas Square and moved northbound until it reached the Israeli consulate on Bloor Street . Hundreds of demonstrators waved flags , carried signs and chanted slogans , including @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never die . " There was a heavy police presence in the area of the gathering . Toronto police tweeted out multiple road closures , but would not say how many people were in attendance at the protest . A close-up of the rally at Yonge-Dundas Square in Toronto on Saturday . ( Chris Gargus/CBC ) As of Saturday at 8 p.m. , police had no information about any arrests made in connection with the rally . A spokesperson for the force also said he was not aware of any reports of violence . Thousands gathered across Canada in pro-Palestinian protests over the last two weeks . Last weekend , large demonstrations broke out in Toronto , Montreal , Ottawa and Vancouver . More rallies and vigils were held during the week . Saturday marked the first full day of a ceasefire , agreed to by Israel and Hamas , that went into effect early Friday morning . ( Chris Gargus/CBC ) Protesters have denounced the violence against the Palestinian people amid the conflict between Israeli forces and the Hamas militant group . Saturday marked the first full day of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that went into effect early Friday morning . It marked the end of a devastating 11-day war that caused widespread destruction in the Gaza Strip and brought life in much of Israel to a standstill . Earlier Saturday , another group displayed banners in solidarity with Palestinians , holding banners along several different bridges overlooking Highway 401 in Toronto . A group displayed banners in solidarity with Palestinians on Saturday , holding banners along several different bridges overlooking Highway 401 in Toronto . ( CBC ) <p> A man accused of stealing from a Regina store ran off with the goods , but it was n't exactly a clean getaway . While fleeing , he dropped his cell phone , which included his name and photo -- and now police are investigating . It happened Thursday at Groovy Mama , a store that sells baby supplies . The owner of the store , Cara Zimmerman , was working behind the front desk at the time of the theft . She says the suspect came in and proceeded to grab armfuls of items worth hundreds of dollars . Then he made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suspect until she noticed he had dropped his cell phone . This was n't the first time this man had allegedly stolen from the store , according to Zimmerman . There was a previous theft before which she did not report to the police . " He has come into my store before , " she said . " Maybe a month or two ago and was checking the place out . He grabbed a bag from my front entrance , but it was just donations so I did n't really make a big deal about it . " This time , Zimmerman , recognized the man as soon as he walked into the store . She closed the store down for the day and reported the theft to the police . The incident is still under investigation . <p> SKOPJE , North Macedonia ( AP ) -- The foreign ministers of Austria , the Czech Republic and Slovenia voiced unanimous support Saturday for North Macedonia and Albania to start membership talks with European Union , arguing that bilateral issues should not block the EU 's enlargement into the Western @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Jakub Kulhanek and Slovenia 's Anze Logar arrived in North Macedonia 's capital , Skopje , to offer their backing for EU accession talks scheduled for June . The three plan to visit Albania , which also wants to join the EU , on Sunday . Bulgaria refused last year to approve the EU 's membership negotiation framework for North Macedonia , effectively blocking the official start of membership talks with its smaller Balkan neighbor . Bulgaria wants North Macedonia to formally recognize that its language has Bulgarian roots and to stamp out allegedly anti-Bulgarian rhetoric . The government in Skopje says the Macedonian identity and language are not open to discussion . Bulgaria on Friday ruled out again a possible reversal of its veto following a meeting with EU officials . The Czech Republic 's Kulhanek said it is " not fair " for one EU member nation to condition the enlargement process on a bilateral dispute . " This is a crucial time , and we can not allow ( the process ) to be stuck with such demands , " he said . North Macedonia applied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the European Commission a year later . EU leaders agreed to formal accession talks with Albania and North Macedonia after Skopje settled a nearly three decade-long dispute with neighboring Greece over the country 's name , which saw it renamed North Macedonia . Western Balkan countries are at different stages of EU membership talks . Serbia and Montenegro have already started negotiating some chapters of their membership agreements . Kosovo and Bosnia have signed a Stabilization and Association Agreement , the first step to membership . Konstantin Testorides , The Associated Press <p> British Columbians have been under travel restrictions this spring but that does n't seem to have stopped a few reptile residents of Greater Victoria from sneaking aboard a ferry . The common wall lizard , which hails from Italy , first appeared in southern Vancouver Island in the late 1960s when a few were released in Saanich . Now , according to one expert , the population in B.C. has exploded to an estimated 700,000 -- and in the past few weeks there have been reported sightings on Salt Spring Island and Pender Island for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the Royal B.C. Museum , said the impact of the lizards on the natural ecosystem has not been extensively studied , but they have been spotted eating mason bees and newborn garter snakes . " We should have eradicated them in the 1970s , " said Hanke . " We are way beyond eradication now . " The lizards , which can be up to 21 centimetres long , have scales on both the front and back of their bodies . Females are grey-brown with a light green speckle pattern and males can have bold black and green spots across the back . They can be found basking on rocks in the sun or scurrying through long grass and they also like to hang out on fences , rock walls and wood piles . Hanke said some property owners in Saanich with acreage estimate they have about 5,000 lizards living on their land . " I can catch one a minute in a good spot , " he said . Spot and report How the lizards made it to Salt Spring and Pender is unknown , but Hanke has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ camping gear , loads of firewood or even in the custody of a kid who caught one and wanted a pet . The eggs can also travel in flower pots , where they can hatch if undisturbed . The common wall lizard can lay several batches of eggs a year . The eggs of the common wall lizard , seen here in an image in the Greater Victoria region in summer 2019 , can easily travel in garden pots and spread the invasive species . These eggs were found under a paving stone by an area resident who said there were hundreds in the one spot . ( J. Reed Radziszewsk ) There is no current government management plan for the reptile , said Hanke , who says the best thing people can do right now is report one if they see one . To report a sighting , visit inaturalist.org , where you can upload and image and provide location details . INaturalist is a joint initiative by the California Academy of Sciences and the National Geographic Society and shares data with scientists around the world . <p> ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vaccines experienced heart inflammation , a U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention advisory group said , recommending further study of the rare condition . The CDC 's Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices in a statement dated May 17 said it had looked into reports that a few young vaccine recipients , predominantly adolescents and young adults , and predominantly male , developed myocarditis , an inflammation of the heart muscle . The condition often goes away without complications and can be caused by a variety of viruses , the CDC group said . <p> More video of a fatal 2019 encounter of a Black man with police in Louisiana was released by authorities late Friday , and two state troopers were notified that they will be fired , in the fallout of a lethal traffic stop . The newly-released bodycam footage shows a high-speed chase and Louisiana state troopers punching motorist Ronald Greene , 49 , a Black man , while he was already in handcuffs . Greene , of West Monroe , Louisiana , led police on a high-speed chase after midnight of May 10 , 2019 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ police said . <p> The owner of a container ship that blocked the Suez Canal in March says the canal authority was at fault over its grounding as it disputes the vessel 's detention and a compensation claim , a lawyer representing the owner said on Saturday . The Ever Given , one of the world 's largest container ships , became jammed across the canal in high winds on March 23 , and remained grounded for six days , blocking traffic in both directions and disrupting global trade . The vessel has since been held in a lake between two stretches of the canal as the Suez Canal Authority ( SCA ) pursues a $916.5 million claim against Japanese owner Shoei Kisen . <p> A five-year-old child has life-threatening injuries following a collision in Dartmouth Friday . Halifax Regional Police responded to a crash involving a car and a pickup truck at the intersection of Portland Street and Spring Avenue at 4:22 p.m . The child was a passenger in the car which was being driven by a woman . She also suffered serious injuries . Both were taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ injured . All east bound traffic on Portland Street was blocked from Eisener to Portland Estates boulevards Friday evening . Traffic was expected to be blocked for an extended period of time . The investigation is ongoing . Police say it 's unknown if charges will be laid . Anyone with information about this incident is asked to call police at 902-490-5020 . MORE TOP STORIES 
@@52757310 <p> " These hostilities have resulted in the tragic deaths of so many civilians , including children , and I send my sincere condolences to all the families , Israeli and Palestinian , who have lost loved ones , " Biden said from the White House . <p> Hours before Biden spoke , the Israeli security Cabinet announced it had agreed to a cease-fire with Hamas , potentially pausing the most violent clash between the two since 2014 . Hamas , which controls the Palestinian territories , later confirmed it had agreed to it as well . The fighting is scheduled to stop Friday morning local time . <p> Biden , who 's continued the United States ' heavy monetary support of Israeli forces , expressed support for the cease-fire earlier this week during a call with Netanyahu . But critics slammed Biden for not doing so earlier , saying his administration should have recognized the situation was escalating but instead went through with a $735 million weapons sale to Israel . <p> U.S. support has become increasingly scrutinized by American progressives , who say Israel 's attacks on Gaza have been disproportionate , amounting to war crimes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To date , the current fighting has killed at least 232 Palestinians and 12 Israelis . <p> Biden spoke out against Hamas , which the U.S. has designated as a terrorist organization , but said he looks forward to working with Palestinian authorities on rebuilding Gaza . <p> " I believe the Palestinians and Israelis equally deserve to live safely and securely and enjoy equal measures of freedom , prosperity and democracy , " he said . 
@@52757311 <p> Israel and the Palestinian militant group Hamas have agreed to a cease-fire , they announced in separatestatements on Thursday afternoon , pausing their worst clash since 2014 . <p> The fighting , which has killed at least 232 Palestinians and 12 Israelis , will stop early Friday morning local time . <p> After an Israeli crackdown on Palestinians in Jerusalem during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan , Hamas and allied militantsbegan launching rockets at Israeli towns on May 10 . Israel responded with airstrikes on Gaza , the crowded and isolated territory ruled by Hamas , that killed dozens of civilians ? including more than 60 children ? and destroyed critical infrastructure , such as medical facilities . <p> The cease-fire does not immediately address the priorities that the two sides cited for the burst of violence : Israel 's actions in Jerusalem and Hamas 's underground tunnel system for storing rockets . That raises the risk of continued tension and a possible additional outbreak in violence , International Crisis Group analyst Mairav Zonszein noted on Twitter . <p> The lack of a clear resolution also bolsters the argument that such days-long skirmishes achieve little while causing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ <p> The latest round of bloodshed drove unprecedented clashes in cities within Israel that are home to both Israelis and Palestinians and has displaced thousands of people within Gaza as hundreds of buildings were attacked . <p> The U.S. , which is implicated in the conflict through its heavy support for Israel , encouraged cease-fire negotiations , which were largely managed by American ally Egypt . <p> But in repeated calls with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , President Joe Biden did not mention a cease-fire until a week into the flare-up ? while leaders in his party , including Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer ( D-N.Y. ) and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi ( D-Calif. ) , called for an immediate halt . <p> Critics of the Biden administration , including many of the president 's allies , say their team should have recognized the risk of dramatic escalation sooner and used American leverage earlier . Instead , the U.S. doubled down on demonstrating support for Israel , blocking United Nations statements to urge a cease-fire and unveiling a new $735 million weapons sale to the country . <p> Lawmakers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . <p> In the final hours before the cease-fire went into effect , Israel launched at least one additional strike in Gaza and said it detected incoming rockets from the region . 
@@52758699 <p> These are the impacts of the Canadian Association of University Teachers ' ( CAUT ) censure of U of T , following the university 's failed efforts to dissipate the months-long hiring scandal at the Faculty of Law 's International Human Rights Program ( IHRP ) . <p> The controversy began last September over allegations that Dr. Valentina Azarova was denied the position of director of the IHRP after a university donor suggested that she would be an unwelcome choice , due to writings of hers that were critical of Israel 's policies toward Palestine . U of T has denied these allegations since they first arose . <p> The scandal bubbled beneath the surface for many months as U of T 's efforts to move on were moderately effective . Though individuals most concerned by it -- such as law faculty professors and former IHRP directors -- remained outspoken , the scandal had not fully caught the attention of the community at large . <p> That is , until the CAUT announced a rare censure of the university , and its members listened . Suddenly , countless events that would have improved the quality of learning and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , such as Amnesty International and Citizen Lab , have cut ties with U of T over the censure . <p> Support for the censure appears to grow by the day , as entire departments of the university -- most recently , the School of the Environment -- are expressing their support . <p> The Varsity has published many articles on the controversy as it has unfolded over the past year , and we 've reported on the criticisms levied at the university by faculty and by the law community almost every step of the way . At any of these points , the university could have stopped its doomed attempts to sweep it under the rug and instead make substantive changes . For example , when met with criticism that the review process would be ineffective and lack transparency , U of T could have created a review body composed of a group of multiple diverse individuals , rather than tasking one former Supreme Court judge with the investigation . <p> As a result of the review , U of T has committed to creating guidelines around external attempts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that academic freedom protections be implemented for certain managerial positions , such as law clinic directors . <p> Still , little attention seems to be paid to the many U of T community members , especially faculty , who wholeheartedly support the censure and have been calling for action from the university for weeks . It is clear that this will not end without substantive efforts made by the university . <p> The most prominent solution circulating -- and the solution that the CAUT cites as a requirement to end the censure -- is that U of T should re-offer Azarova the position . This idea has been offered for months , yet U of T has not acted upon it . U of T responded to this suggestion by saying that Azarova is welcome to apply for the position again following a review of the program as a whole . <p> So far , the university has not taken any productive action following the censure -- it has not even taken responsibility for the inadvertent effects of its inaction on the campus community . When the CAUT censure was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the decision and that the CAUT had no jurisdiction over the case . Instead of taking the CAUT 's censure as a sign that something was wrong , the university merely attempted to pretend that everything was ' business as usual . ' <p> Following the censure , a U of T spokesperson wrote to The Varsity : " We remain committed to academic freedom for academics , including academic administrators , and to search processes that are confidential and insulated from external pressures whatever their source . " <p> Despite its statements , we are echoing the calls for U of T to stop the scandal here by finally taking responsibility and accountability for any wrongdoing , and expressing an interest in true transparency so that the university may begin to repair its reputation . <p> Supporters of the censure have also been trying to shift the narrative to refocus around Palestinian rights , rather than just academic freedom , as the escalation of the censure has also coincided with escalating violence between Israel and Palestine . <p> The central question of the scandal is really whether U @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ freely on Israel and Palestine . Ensuring this right to free speech is also a moral imperative right now , as Palestinians have been disproportionately killed by Israel over the past two weeks . <p> While there have been casualties on both sides , the effect on Palestinians has been far greater . In addition , there is an extreme imbalance of power between Israel and Palestine that makes it impossible to accept that " both sides " are suffering equally . Israel has an incredibly well-funded military , and the Palestinian people lack the same rights as Israeli individuals . <p> The Varsity stands in solidarity with Palestine and Palestinian community members at U of T. Over the next few weeks -- and throughout this volume of The Varsity -- we hope to increase our reporting on what the violence in Palestine means for our community members , as well as to make room for community members to write their own stories and experiences . <p> This is in line with an open letter that The Varsity has signed , along with hundreds of other prominent journalists and news @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Israel-Palestine conflict from Canadian newsrooms . <p> In addition , The Varsity has donated $200 to Save the Children , a non-governmental organization working in Palestine , as 58 children in Gaza and two in Israel have been killed . We do so out of a sincere belief that anyone -- regardless of their politics , background or religion -- can sympathize with the tragedy of violence that takes the lives of innocents . <p> Yet , despite the stance expressed here , The Varsity remains committed to a Comment section that is open to all well-meaning U of T community members . Students may write for the section from any position that is fair , well-reasoned , and based on evidence . <p> In light of recent events , at minimum , the university needs to affirm its commitment to protecting speech about Palestine , as that is the fundamental question of the IHRP hiring scandal : will U of T protect speech that is critical of Israel , even when pushed back upon ? <p> The Varsity calls on U of T to finally listen to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and accountability , and to affirm a commitment to free speech for all community members -- but particularly for the Palestinian people who have felt silenced for so long . <p> The Varsity 's editorial board is elected by the masthead at the beginning of each semester . For more information about the editorial policy , email email protected 
@@52758755 <h> Market News <h> Generalist funds flow back into mining as prices , inflation climb <p> LONDON ( Reuters ) - Surging prices for commodities , stronger balance sheets and rising inflation have lured back to mining stocks generalist investors that for years shunned the sector , data shows . <p> Shares in diversified mining companies Rio Tinto , BHP , Anglo American and Glencore have doubled in the last year , as policy support measures in advanced economies in response to the COVID-19 pandemic stoked inflation . <p> Commodities serve as a hedge against inflation , meaning their prices are expected to stay strong , and at the same time the transition to a low carbon economy and channelling of stimulus funds into infrastructure is generating demand for raw materials . <p> The size of natural resources mutual and exchange-traded funds tracked by Refinitiv Lipper data exceeded $70 billion by the end of April for the first time since September 2018 at $72.4 billion . ( Graphic : Assets and flows of funds , ) <p> Many generalist investors - or money managers whose focus is not solely on mining companies - fled the sector when a commodity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ materials slowed down . <p> " The inflation fears and metals price action has brought investors back to mining stocks , " said London &amp; Capital head of equities Roger Jones , whose fund holds mining stocks . <p> A Bank of America survey of fund managers published in May found that a net 21% of European investors participating in it were overweight metals and mining versus a net 56% that said they were underweight a year ago . <p> The survey found fund managers were underweight defensive sectors such as utilities and pharma . <p> This is not only visible in Europe , as several hedge funds have piled into Canada-listed Teck Resources Ltd , for example , U.S. regulatory filings show . ( Graphic : Miners vs FTSE , ) <h> AVOIDING BOOM AND BUST <p> Miners have learnt a hard lesson since the last boom , when they overpaid by billions to buy assets , sometimes in complex jurisdictions or difficult geologies . <p> By maintaining discipline on costs , spending and acquisitions , they cut debt and gave shareholders dividends that have become loftier as commodity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expected to be one of the biggest beneficiaries of the lower carbon economy , hit a record this month , while battery minerals nickel , lithium and cobalt have also jumped . <p> Sell-side analysts have hailed the latest rally as the beginning of a supercycle , but some fund managers caution against too much enthusiasm , as supply disruptions caused by the COVID-19 restrictions ease , potentially curbing prices . <p> " Supply chains are still not working as smoothly because of COVID lockdowns , so we have to wait until there is a normalisation to get a better idea of what is really driving commodity prices , " said Ben Ritchie , head of European equities at Aberdeen Standard Investments . <p> Fund managers also said China was not consuming as much metal as it was during a 2000-2008 supercycle , and mining stocks are trading on low multiples compared to tech for example , which suggests broader scepticism that prices can be sustained . <p> Another concern for investors has been the level of risk associated with mining that has led to environmental disasters and legal action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) criteria have shot to prominence , miners have drawn up sustainability reports and ethical and green targets that may reassure some investors . <p> " ESG has been a challenge for miners to adapt to , but it is arguably the best thing that has happened to the mining sector , " said Janus Henderson fund manager Tal Lomnitzer , whose funds hold Anglo American and copper miner Freeport-McMoRan . <p> " Decarbonisation should bring in those investors who would otherwise avoid the sector . " <p> Disclaimer : The views expressed in this article are those of the author and may not reflect those of Kitco Metals Inc . The author has made every effort to ensure accuracy of information provided ; however , neither Kitco Metals Inc. nor the author can guarantee such accuracy . This article is strictly for informational purposes only . It is not a solicitation to make any exchange in commodities , securities or other financial instruments . Kitco Metals Inc. and the author of this article do not accept culpability for losses and/ or damages arising from the use of this publication @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Media uses cookies for personalization , to customize its online advertisements , and for other purposes . Learn more or change your cookie preferences . Rogers Media supports the Digital Advertising Alliance principles . By continuing to use our service , you agree to our use of cookies . <p> We use cookies ( why ? ) You can change cookie preferences . Continued site use signifies consent . <h> Vaccine infusion and Mideast crisis : In The News for May 17 <p> In The News is a roundup of stories from The Canadian Press designed to kickstart your day . Here is what 's on the radar of our editors for the morning of May 17 ... <p> What we are watching in Canada ... <p> OTTAWA -- Canada is set to receive a large infusion of COVID-19 vaccines this week , even as questions swirl around how the immunization drive will be affected by the sudden departure of the man tasked with overseeing it . <p> The federal government says it expects around 4.5 million doses to arrive this week thanks to planned deliveries from Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna . <p> Pfizer and BioNTech had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their vaccines continue to flow into Canada on a regular basis after early hiccups in February and March . <p> But the federal government says the two companies will ship an additional 1.4 million shots , which were originally slated to land next week but are now expected to arrive before the upcoming holiday weekend . <p> Moderna is also expected to deliver 1.1 million doses this week . <p> The large influx comes as the Liberal government faces questions about who will now lead the vaccination campaign after Maj.-Gen . Dany Fortin was sidelined suddenly on Friday and reassigned from his role presiding over the national inoculation effort . <p> The Department of National Defence has said Fortin is under military investigation , but otherwise refused to provide any details . The government , meanwhile , has yet to name a replacement . <p> -- <p> Also this ... <p> Indigenous surgery patients are nearly a third more likely to die after their procedures than other populations in Canada and face higher risks of complications , new research suggests as doctors warn these inequities could worsen with the COVID-19 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ systemic review today consisting of 28 separate studies . The research involved roughly 1.9 million participants -- about 10 per cent of whom identified as Indigenous -- to assess the surgical outcomes for Indigenous patients in Canada across a range of procedures . <p> Lead author Dr. Jason McVicar said the findings underscore the need for the First Nations , Inuit and M ? t is communities to lead a data-informed overhaul of health care , particularly as the pandemic raises concerns that Indigenous patients will fall behind in the mounting backlog of surgeries . <p> " This study tells Canadians two things : that we need better data , and the data that we have tells us that we need to do better , " said McVicar , a M ? t is anesthesiologist at The Ottawa Hospital . <p> Researchers found Indigenous Peoples face a 30 per cent higher death rate after surgery compared to non-Indigenous patients , according to data from four studies with a combined 7,135 participants . <p> The authors also analyzed literature indicating that Indigenous patients suffered higher rates of surgical complications , including @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also showed Indigenous patients were less likely to undergo surgeries aimed at improving quality of life , such as joint replacements , as well as potentially life-saving procedures including cardiac surgery , transplants and caesarean sections . <p> -- <p> And this ... <p> Canadian researchers who tracked a group of men who were born prematurely at a weight of less than 2.2 pounds are finding they tend to age more quickly than male babies with average birth weights . <p> The findings from a team at McMaster University in Hamilton , Ont. , were published today in the journal Pediatrics . <p> Researchers followed a group of what they refer to as " extremely low birth weight " babies as well as their normal-weight counterparts . <p> They found the premature boys age more quickly and are biologically 4.6 years older than boys with normal birth weight born at the same time . <p> The difference was not found between birth weight groups in girls . <p> Study lead author Dr. Ryan Van Lieshout says in a news release that the rate of aging may be influenced by boys @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hospital neonatal intensive care unit after they are born . <p> -- <p> What we are watching in the U.S. ... <p> COPENHAGEN , Denmark -- U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken is in Denmark for talks on climate change , Arctic policy and Russia as calls grow for the Biden administration to take a tougher and more active stance on spiraling Israeli-Palestinian violence . <p> Blinken is seeing Danish leaders as well as top officials from Greenland and the Faeroe Islands in Copenhagen today before he heads to Iceland for an Arctic Council meeting that will be marked by his first face-to-face talks with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov at a time of significantly heightened tensions between Washington and Moscow . <p> The U.N . Security Council held an urgent session about the Mideast situation on Sunday at which U.S. ambassador to the United Nations Linda Thomas-Greenfield said the administration was working tirelessly through diplomatic channels to stop the fighting . <p> President Joe Biden spoke with both Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas on Saturday , Blinken worked the phones with various counterparts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U.S. diplomat is currently in Israel meeting with the parties there . <p> Yet , calls for a greater U.S. response are growing , not least in Congress where a large number of Biden 's Democratic allies are clamoring for more action , including a demand from the administration for a cease-fire . <p> Biden has thus far resisted such calls , reaffirming staunch support for Israel 's right to defend itself from rocket attacks from the Gaza Strip . <p> -- <p> What we are watching in the rest of the world ... <p> GAZA CITY , Gaza Strip -- The Israeli military has unleashed a wave of heavy airstrikes on the Gaza Strip . <p> It says it destroyed 15 kilometers of militant tunnels and the homes of nine alleged Hamas commanders . <p> Residents of Gaza awakened by the overnight barrage described it as the heaviest since the war began a week ago , and even more powerful than a wave of airstrikes in Gaza City the day before that left 42 dead . <p> There was no immediate word on the casualties from the latest strikes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gaza and militants have launched more than 3,100 rockets into Israel since the fighting began . <p> The war broke out last Monday , when Hamas fired long-range rockets at Jerusalem after weeks of clashes in the Holy City between Palestinian protesters and Israeli police . <p> The protests were focused on the heavy-handed policing of a flashpoint holy site during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan and the threatened eviction of dozens of Palestinian families by Jewish settlers . <p> After last year 's Eurovision Song Contest was canceled amid the global COVID-19 pandemic , it is roaring back to life this year with coronavirus bubbles added to its heady mix of music and melodrama . <p> National delegations traveling to the Dutch port city of Rotterdam are abiding by strict measures to reduce the risk of infections , while the thousands of fans allowed to attend dress rehearsals , two semifinals and May 22 's grand final will have to undergo testing to ensure they do not bring the virus into the cavernous venue . <p> -- <p> ICYMI ... <p> WAYNE , Alta . -- Built during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Second World War and the closure of coal mines in the 1950s . Now the historic Last Chance Saloon in the ghost town of Wayne in southern Alberta is up for sale . <p> There are a century 's worth of memories in the three-storey wooden hotel , including photos of the community in its heyday , mining equipment and three bullet holes -- framed on one wall of the bar -- dating back to the 1970s when a trigger-happy bartender wanted to encourage some patrons to pay their tab . <p> The hotel , about 15 kilometres southeast of Drumheller , Alta. , was built by the Rosedeer Coal Co. to house its workers and opened in 1913 . The saloon was added a few years later so employees being paid in company scrip could buy a meal or a beer . <p> " It originally was built for the coal miners when Wayne was starting to boom with 2,500 residents in the early 1920s . Now we 're down to 29 residents and this is one of the few remaining structures from that time , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hotel as part of a divorce settlement . <p> " It was a going concern . There was more than one hotel out here . There were 12 coal mines and it was a bustling place . Of course , there 's almost nothing left but there 's lots of photos around depicting what it was like in the day . <p> The hotel is listed for $925,000 . Arsenault says there 's already been some interest from prospective buyers . <p> Some think the third floor of the hotel , which is locked up and used only for storage , is haunted . The hotel was featured in Season 3 of the Canadian ghost-hunting TV show , " The Other Side . " <p> It has also hit the big screen . <p> The 1983 movie " Running Brave , " starring Robby Benson , was filmed in part at the hotel as well as the 2000 martial arts western comedy " Shanghai Noon " which starred Jackie Chan , Owen Wilson and Lucy Liu . 
@@52758975 <p> Former adult film star Mia Khalifa called Gal Gadot , above , a " Genocide Barbie " over the Israeli actress 's stance on the Israel-Hamas conflict.Photo by Lionel Hahn/ABACAPRESS.COM <h> Article content <p> When Israeli actor Gal Gadot posted a message on Instagram praying for peace in the Middle East , she was attacked . <p> " Israel deserves to live as a free and safe nation . Our neighbors deserve the same . ... I pray for our leaders to find the solution so we can live side by side in peace . I pray for better days , " she wrote on Instagram . <p> We apologize , but this video has failed to load . <p> Try refreshing your browser . <h> No truce in social media trenches as Israel-Hamas conflict continues unabated onlineBack to video <p> Former adult film actress and Lebanese-American Mia Khalifa tweeted to her nearly four million followers that Gadot , the Wonder Woman star who previously did mandatory service in the Israeli military , was a " Genocide Barbie . " <p> Gadot 's name started " trending " on Twitter , which U.S. journalist Ben Jacobs called " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with vile and anti-Semitic attacks online . " <p> The backlash eventually led Gadot to disable replies on her Instagram post . <p> While a truce this week has quieted the Israeli-Hamas conflict , at least in its early hours , the social media war seeking to shape the narrative about the clashes continues unabated . <h> Advertisement <p> Story continues below <p> This advertisement has not loaded yet , but your article continues below . <h> Article content <p> The Instagram account @impact , which shares " digestible &amp; socially impactful content " to 1.6 million followers , posted screenshots of tweets proclaiming " we remain far from justice " and that the fight to " save Palestine " continues . <h> More On This Topic <p> Hamas-Israeli tension is nothing new . But hundreds of millions of people around the world have new access to perspectives via all sorts of apps , such as Instagram , TikTok and Tumblr . <p> Much of it is biased . Much of the sourcing is unclear . And it 's inflaming hatred against Jewish people . <p> " Firstly , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like TikTok and Instagram , have allowed misinformation and hatred to circulate like wildfire , " said Michael Mostyn , chief executive officer of B'nai Brith Canada . <p> Politics-by-meme , social media posts and celebrity advocacy have driven recent social movements , particularly ones about race and social justice . Whether it 's Black Lives Matter , Indigenous anti-pipeline protests or information about gender pronouns , multiple accounts -- many of them leaning towards the political left -- offer their ideological views . <p> Ahmed Al-Rawi , a professor in the school of communication at Simon Fraser University , said " no one controls the narrative anymore . " <p> " With Black Lives Matter and the increasing awareness about human-rights issues , I think people are now feeling more empowered , " said Al-Rawi . <h> Advertisement <p> Story continues below <p> This advertisement has not loaded yet , but your article continues below . <h> Article content <p> For context , at the time of the 2014 Gaza war , Instagram had roughly 200 million active users . Now , more than one billion people are using @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discussion of the conflict , TikTok , is primarily used by those under the age of 30 . It now has roughly 700 million users , but it did n't even exist in 2014 . <p> Mostly young social media users sympathetic to the Palestinian cause are also effectively leveraging the same social media politics that drove last summer 's Black Lives Matter protests to portray the Israeli-Hamas conflict in the popular language of social justice , with Israelis cast as the oppressors , and Palestinians as a persecuted minority . <p> " One can not advocate for racial equality , LGBT and women 's rights , condemn corrupt and abusive regimes and other injustices yet choose to ignore the Palestinian oppression , " says one post shared on a number of prominent Instagram accounts , including by Vogue model Gigi Hadid , who is of Palestinian descent and has 67 million followers . <p> People watch the removal of unexploded ordnance as a ceasefire between Israel and Hamas came into effect on May 21 , 2021 in Gaza City , Gaza.Photo by Fatima Shbair/Getty Images <p> And , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only ways to make their case to the English-speaking world , many in Israel have raised concerns about it , to the extent that Benny Gantz , Israel 's justice minister , met with executives from Facebook and TikTok recently , telling them that the violent clashes between Israel and Hamas were " intentionally stirred through social media by extremist elements , " Gantz 's spokesperson told The Associated Press . <h> Advertisement <p> Story continues below <p> This advertisement has not loaded yet , but your article continues below . <h> Article content <p> Gabriel Weimann , a communications professor at the University of Haifa , put it this way : " Since no one controls , regulates or checks these videos , you can post whatever you want , " he told The Jerusalem Post . " There are a lot of lies . " <p> Among the most prominent and condemned responses to the violence came from Veena Malik , a Pakistani film star , who tweeted a quote often ( but mistakenly ) attributed to Adolf Hitler : " I would have killed all the Jews @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world why I killed them . " The quote stayed up for hours , uncensored by Twitter , which claims to restrict hate speech , until Malik deleted it . <p> Martin Sampson , vice-president of the Centre for Israel and Jewish Affairs , said " Palestinian national aspirations are entirely legitimate and supporters of the Palestinian cause have every right to express their support online and in public . " <p> " However , when actions cross over to hate speech , threats , and violence , they must be condemned by both civil society and political leaders , and when they occur online , must be removed by social media providers , " Sampson said . " What we have observed is a troubling increase in antisemitic incidents on and offline . Invocation of Nazi imagery , demonization of Jews , misinformation about Jews and Israelis , and deliberate misinformation about the conflict all represent real challenges to those who aspire for peace . " <p> On TikTok , there have been more than 625 million views of videos under the hashtag #SaveSheikhJarrah . Sheikh Jarrah is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disputes between Jews and Arabs over property rights , sometimes leading to evictions , was one of the issues that sparked the latest conflict . <h> Advertisement <p> Story continues below <p> This advertisement has not loaded yet , but your article continues below . <h> Article content <p> Similarly , on Instagram , there were more than 900,000 posts with the same hashtag , and another 1.2 million posts with the hashtag #savepalestine and 2.6 million for #freepalestine . <p> Bella Hadid , whose father is Palestinian , shared a video with her 41.7 million Instagram followers that says there has been " 73 years of the ethnic cleansing of Palestine . " She also marched in a pro-Palestinian rally last weekend in Brooklyn , prompting the official Twitter account of Israel to tweet that " When celebrities like @BellaHadid advocate for throwing Jews into the sea , they are advocating for the elimination of the Jewish State , " the tweet said . <p> Language alleging that Israel is engaging in " ethnic cleansing " against Palestinians is used frequently in these posts , having spread far from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ How to be an ally with the Palestinians , " seems to have first been shared on an Instagram account called Paliroots , telling people to use terms such as " apartheid " and " colonialism " and " ethnic cleansing , " instead of " eviction , " " conflict " or " war " and urges people to join a boycott , divestment and sanction movement against Israel . <h> Advertisement <p> Story continues below <p> This advertisement has not loaded yet , but your article continues below . <h> Article content <p> That post was shared by Black-ish star Yara Shahidi , who has 5.8 million Instagram followers . <p> There are , of course , celebrities with pro-Israel accounts , although they tend to be less confrontational and are inevitably less popular among other celebrities and influencers . <p> On TikTok , the user Yael-Deri1 has nearly 957,000 followers and millions of views , many featuring her dancing and lip-synching in full military getup . <p> And , on Instagram , the account StandWithUs , which has more than 300,000 followers , has been spreading information @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ narratives spreading on social media with its own infographics . <p> Israeli writer Hen Mazzig has been posting infographics to his 34,000 followers . One reads : " Before you post about Israel-Palestine , take a break and ask yourself : Will this statement move us closer to peace ? " <h> Share this article in your social network <h> Share this Story : No truce in social media trenches as Israel-Hamas conflict continues unabated online <h> Latest National Stories <h> Advertisement <p> Story continues below <p> This advertisement has not loaded yet , but your article continues below . <h> News Near Grande Prairie <h> This Week in Flyers <h> Comments <p> Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles . Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site . We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful . We have enabled email notifications -- you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment , there is an update to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comments . Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings . <h> Notice for the Postmedia Network <p> This website uses cookies to personalize your content ( including ads ) , and allows us to analyze our traffic . Read more about cookies here . By continuing to use our site , you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy . 
@@52760016 <h> Gaza govt offices to reopen on Sunday <p> Government offices in the Gaza Strip will reopen on Sunday following the end of the 11-day bloodshed between Israel and militant groups in the Hamas-controlled besieged enclave , an official said . <p> Head of the Hams-run government press office , Salama Ma'rouf confirmed the development during a news conference here , Xinhua news agency . <p> " After the ceasefire came into effect , all governmental institutions began to work on plans to record the damage and they will start fixing the damaged infrastructure and other basic services in the Gaza Strip , " he said . <p> Ma'rouf added that the government 's offices will work on cleaning and opening the streets and roads , and provide relief to those were affected by the tit-for-tat aerial attacks that were halted following the Egypt-brokered ceasefire on May 2q . <p> He said that during the Israeli airstrikes , 248 Palestinians were killed , including 66 children , 39 women , 17 elderly and five handicapped . <p> On the Israeli side , there were 12 fatalities . <p> He added that " 303 buildings , including high-rises were completely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agricultural , commercial , governmental and industrial buildings were completely destroyed " . <p> The fighting between Israel and the Hamas-led militant groups began on May 10 , after the Gaza militants fired barrages of rockets at Israel in protest to the Israeli measures in East Jerusalem . <p> A tit-for-tat trade of fire broke out , where Israeli fighter jets carried out hundreds of airstrikes on the Gaza Strip . <p> Israel said that it targeted the infrastructure of Hamas and other militant groups in the enclave . 
@@52760029 <p> This copy is for your personal non-commercial use only . To order presentation-ready copies of Toronto Star content for distribution to colleagues , clients or customers , or inquire about permissions/licensing , please go to : **27;895;TOOLONG <p> A crater full of water and sewage remains where the home of Ramez al-Masri was destroyed by an air-strike prior to a cease-fire reached after an 11-day war between Gaza 's Hamas rulers and Israel , Sunday , May 23 , 2021 , in Beit Hanoun , the northern Gaza Strip . <h> Israeli police escort Jews to flashpoint Jerusalem site <p> JK <p> By Joseph KraussThe Associated Press <p> Sun. , May 23 , 2021timer4 min. read <p> updateArticle was updated 11 hrs ago <p> JERUSALEM ( AP ) -- Israeli police escorted more than 250 Jewish visitors Sunday to a flashpoint holy site in Jerusalem where clashes between police and Palestinian protesters helped trigger a war in Gaza , according to the Islamic authority overseeing the site . <p> The 11-day conflict between Israel and Gaza 's militant Hamas rulers came to a fragile halt Friday , but left behind immense ruin in Gaza , including hundreds of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that were badly damaged , according to the U.N . <p> With tensions still high , police cleared young Palestinians out of the Al-Aqsa Mosque compound and barred entry to Muslims under the age of 45 , according to the Islamic Waqf , which oversees the site . Muslims who entered were required to leave their IDs with police at the entrance . It said six Palestinians were detained , with four later released . <p> Israeli police denied there was any age restriction and said they arrested five people who " violated the public order . " Police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld said the site was open for " regular visits " and that police had secured the area . <p> The visits later ended without any further incident . <p> Israeli police had briefly clashed with Palestinian protesters after Friday prayers in an early test for the truce , which had taken effect hours earlier . The cease-fire in Gaza has held , but violence in Jerusalem could set off another cycle of escalation . <p> The Waqf said Sunday was the first time Jews had been allowed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the war broke out . <p> The Al-Aqsa Mosque is the third holiest site in Islam . It sits on a sprawling hilltop in Jerusalem 's Old City that is revered by Jews as their holiest site because it was the location of the biblical temples . The site has often been the scene of Israeli-Palestinian violence over the years and was the epicenter of the 2000 Palestinian intifada , or uprising . <p> In recent years , increasing numbers of religious and nationalist Jews have visited the site . Palestinians fear Israel plans to eventually take over the compound or partition it . The Israeli government has repeatedly said it has no intention of changing the status quo , in which the Waqf oversees the site under Jordanian custodianship . <p> On Sunday , Jordan said it would pay for repairs to Jerusalem 's Al-Aqsa Mosque , as well as medical aid for Palestinians , including a coronavirus testing and vaccination center in the Gaza Strip . The statement from the Royal Court did not specify the amount of funding . <p> The recent war saw Israel unleash hundreds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ targets . Hamas and other armed groups fired more than 4,000 rockets toward Israel , most of which were intercepted or landed in open areas . At least 248 Palestinians were killed , as were 12 people in Israel . <p> U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken leaves this week for the Mideast . He told ABC News ' " This Week with George Stephanopoulos " on Sunday that the cease-fire offers a chance to " make a pivot to building something more positive . " <p> Blinken said the priorities include addressing the immediate humanitarian situation in Gaza , reconstructing what was lost in the violence and " engaging both sides in trying to start to make real improvements in the lives of people so that Israelis and Palestinians can live with equal measures of security , of peace and of dignity . " <p> The Israeli strikes leveled a number of large buildings in the impoverished coastal territory , which is home to more than 2 million Palestinians , which has been under a crippling Israeli-Egyptian blockade since Hamas , an Islamic militant group , seized power from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . <p> Lynn Hastings , the U.N . humanitarian coordinator for the Palestinian territories , said some 300 buildings in Gaza -- including an estimated 1,000 homes -- had been completely destroyed . She said hundreds more had been heavily damaged . She cautioned that those were " very , very preliminary numbers " as the damage is still being assessed . <p> Hastings said a total of six hospitals and 11 primary health care centers were damaged , and that one hospital was not functioning because of a lack of electricity . She said around 800,000 people lack access to tap water and 400,000 people do not have proper sewage treatment because of damage to local infrastructure . <p> Israel says it made every effort to avoid harming civilians and only targeted militant infrastructure , including a vast tunnel network and rocket launchers . It blames the war and its devastation on Hamas . <p> Mark Regev , an adviser to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , told " Fox News Sunday " that Israel had dealt Hamas a " heavy blow " and hoped it would serve as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ truce could last , noting " over half a decade of relative peace and quiet " after the last round of fighting in 2014 . <p> On Sunday morning , hundreds of municipal workers and volunteers started a one-week campaign to clear rubble from Gaza 's streets . The work began outside a high-rise building that was flattened by Israeli warplanes during the early days of airstrikes on Gaza , with workers loading rubble into donkey carts and small pickup trucks . <h> Loading ... <p> Loading ... Loading ... Loading ... Loading ... Loadi ... The International Committee of the Red Cross said Friday that the war may have left hundreds of unexploded munitions , which could cause further casualties and hinder efforts to rebuild . <p> -- - <p> Associated Press Writer Ilan Ben Zion contributed to this story from Jerusalem . <h> More from The Standard &amp; Partners <h> More News <h> Top Stories <p> Copyright owned or licensed by Toronto Star Newspapers Limited . All rights reserved . Republication or distribution of this content is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Toronto Star Newspapers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Star articles , please go to : **27;924;TOOLONG 
@@52760771 <h> Article content <p> Doing the same thing over and over and expecting a different result is insane . <p> The latest flareup between Gaza and Israel is one example of that . <p> We apologize , but this video has failed to load . <p> Try refreshing your browser . <h> Only Courageous People Resolve ConflictBack to video <p> The Middle East is like two kids arguing in a sand box and one taking his toys away and going home . <p> The kids may make up in a jiffy , but nations can not swallow their pride and do the same . <p> Like families feuding for years over an argument whose roots lie in the midst of time , it takes a bold new approach to heal . <p> It might take young people on each side to take their future into their hands and drag the old ones along . <p> The hundred-year-long feud between the Hatfields and McCoys started to crack when young couples from each family intermarried . <p> The Middle East row is often blamed on religion , but God is not the reason . <p> It is pride , greed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hate against minorities and refusal to let the past remain in the past , that should be blamed . <h> Advertisement <p> Story continues below <p> This advertisement has not loaded yet , but your article continues below . <h> Article content <p> It took the largest Middle East country to realize that something drastic and unheard of had to be done to break the cycle of repeated wars . <p> President Anwar Sadat of Egypt reached out and his bold move was greeted with joy by Israel . <p> The first peace treaty between the Arab and Jewish nations was welcomed . <p> The Israeli leader , Menachem Begin , a former fighter for Israel independence , eagerly took the olive branch , and it took an Arab nation to do it . <p> Someone had to be first to swallow pride and offer peace , not from weakness , but from immense strength . <p> Peace can not be brokered by outsiders ; only the people involved can make peace . <p> Super powers have sat down with freedom fighters when they accepted that military superiority can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Afghanistan and Vietnam are modern examples . <p> The Middle East waits for another of its leaders to break the dam of hate and memories and honestly want lasting peace . <p> The principles of nation peacemaking also apply to our friends and spouses . <p> Mutual respect , listening , compromise , patience , kindness , the ability to accept criticism , courtesy , unselfishness , not being easily provoked , trustworthiness and forgiveness are all qualities needed to keep that peace and harmony . <p> The secret of any permanent relationship is " never try to change the other . " <p> Mercy is the greatest virtue and trumps justice , and much mercy pays great dividends for a better future . <p> I pray these columns inspire people to get involved as volunteers and share their blessings and talents with the less fortunate . <p> Reach Gene Monin at adios43@yahoo.com <h> Share this article in your social network <h> Share this Story : Only Courageous People Resolve Conflict <h> News Near Sudbury <h> This Week in Flyers <h> Comments <p> Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ share their views on our articles . Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site . We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful . We have enabled email notifications -- you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment , there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments . Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings . <h> Notice for the Postmedia Network <p> This website uses cookies to personalize your content ( including ads ) , and allows us to analyze our traffic . Read more about cookies here . By continuing to use our site , you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy . 
@@52761026 <h> Dua Lipa blasts group that condemned her for Mideast stance <p> NEW YORK ( AP ) -- Singer Dua Lipa is blasting an organization that paid for a full-page ad in The New York Times that called her antisemitic for her support of Palestinians , saying it used her name " shamelessly " to " advance their ugly campaign with falsehoods and blatant misrepresentations . " <p> In the rambling ad which appeared in Saturday 's newspaper in the main section , Rabbi Shmuley Boteach , the head of the World Values Network , named Lipa , and the models Bella and Gigi Hadid as three " mega-influencers " who have " accused Israel of ethnic cleansing " and " vilified the Jewish State . " <p> Lipa took to Twitter on Saturday afternoon to " reject the false and appalling allegations " and said the World Values Network twisted what she stands for . " I stand in solidarity with all oppressed people and reject all forms of racism , " she wrote . <p> Tensions increased in the Mideast since May 10 , when Hamas militants in Gaza fired long-range rockets toward Jerusalem . The barrage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ police at the Al-Aqsa Mosque compound . <p> A cease-fire was declared Friday . The 11-day war left more than 250 dead -- the vast majority Palestinians -- and brought widespread devastation to the already impoverished Hamas-ruled Gaza Strip . <p> Many celebrities have taken to social media to post pro-Palestinian messages , including the singer Zayn , Roger Waters , The Weeknd and Mark Ruffalo . Lipa is dating Anwar Hadid , Gigi and Bella 's brother . 
@@73042413 <h> Jerusalem tension triggers Gaza-Israel fire exchange <p> Fares Akram And Josef Federman <p> Israeli police use the Damascus Gate to watch Muslim worshippers leave the Old City of Jerusalem after Friday prayers during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan , on Friday , April 23 , 2021 . Israeli police say 44 people were arrested and 20 officers were wounded in a night of chaos in Jerusalem , where security forces separately clashed with Palestinians angry about Ramadan restrictions and Jewish extremists who held an anti-Arab march nearby . ( AP Photo/Maya Alleruzzo ) <p> April 24 , 2021 - 3:45 PM <p> JERUSALEM - Rocket fire from the Gaza Strip toward Israel resumed Saturday evening after a day-long pause despite calls for calm from the United Nations and threats by Israeli leaders to retaliate fiercely . Tensions in Jerusalem as Palestinians clashed with Israeli police and far-right Jewish groups prompted the heaviest cross-border violence in months between Israel and Gaza . <p> Militants fired a rocket toward Sderot town in southern Israel and it was intercepted by air defences , the military said . <p> Early Saturday , militants in the Gaza Strip fired some three dozen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at targets operated by the ruling Hamas group . <p> The barrage of rocket fire came as hundreds of Palestinians clashed with Israeli police in east Jerusalem . The clashes , in which at least four police and six protesters were injured , have become a nightly occurrence throughout the Muslim holy month of Ramadan and show no signs of stopping . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says he held talks with top security officials about Gaza and Jerusalem . He said he instructed officials to be ready for ' every scenario ' in Gaza . In Jerusalem , he said Israel would guarantee ' freedom of worship ' for everyone , and he appealed for calm . " We ask now for people to obey the law and I call for a calming of tempers on all sides . " <p> The U.N . envoy to the region , Tor Wennesland , condemned the violence and said the United Nations was working with all sides to restore calm . <p> " The provocative acts across Jerusalem must cease . The indiscriminate launching of rockets towards Israeli population centres @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said . " I reiterate my call upon all sides to exercise maximum restraint and avoid further escalation , particularly during the Holy month of Ramadan and this politically charged time for all . " <p> Meanwhile , Israeli chief of staff , Lt. Gen. Aviv Kochavi , is weighing " a series of steps for possible responses , " and preparations if the situation continued to escalate , the military said in a statement . He also postponed a trip to the United States that was scheduled for Sunday . <p> The U.S. also appealed for calm , while neighbouring Jordan , which serves as the custodian for Jerusalem 's Muslim holy sites , condemned Israel 's actions . <p> Jerusalem , home to holy sites sacred to Jews , Christians and Muslims , has long been a flashpoint in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . In 2014 , similar tensions erupted into a 50-day war between Israel and Gaza 's ruling Hamas militant group . <p> The Israeli military said a total of 36 rockets were fired into Israel throughout the night . It said six rockets were intercepted , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There were no reports of injuries or serious damage , but the incoming rocket fire set off air-raid sirens throughout southern Israel . <p> In response , the army said fighter jets and helicopters struck a number of Hamas targets in Gaza , including an underground facility and rocket launchers . Hamas did not claim responsibility for the rocket fire , but Israel considers the group responsible for all fire emanating from the territory . <p> The military imposed limits on outdoor gatherings in southern Israel early Saturday but lifted the restrictions several hours later and allowed people to resume their normal routines . <p> Israel and Hamas , an Islamic group sworn to Israel 's destruction , are bitter enemies that have fought three wars and numerous skirmishes since Hamas seized control of Gaza in 2007 . <p> Although neither side appears to have an interest in escalating tensions , Hamas sees itself as the defender of Jerusalem and may feel obligated to act , or at least tacitly encourage rocket attacks by other groups , ahead of upcoming Palestinian parliamentary elections . Hamas ' armed wing has warned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At dawn , hundreds of people in Gaza challenged nightly curfews imposed by Hamas to curb the coronavirus outbreak and took to the streets in an act of solidarity with fellow Palestinians in Jerusalem , burning tires . <p> The Palestinians want east Jerusalem to be the capital of their future state . Its fate has been one of the most divisive issues in the peace process , which ground to a halt more than a decade ago . <p> Palestinians have clashed with Israeli police on a nightly basis since the start of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan nearly two weeks ago . <p> The tensions began when police placed barricades outside the Old City 's Damascus Gate , where Muslims traditionally gather to enjoy the evening after the daytime fast . <p> The clashes intensified Thursday evening when hundreds of Palestinians hurled stones and bottles at police , who fired a water cannon and stun grenades to disperse them . Dozens of Palestinians were wounded in the melee . <p> At the same time , a far-right Jewish group known as Lahava led a march of hundreds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Damascus Gate . The group , led by a disciple of the late racist rabbi Meir Kahane , is allied with elements of a far-right party elected to Israel 's parliament last month . <p> The show of force came in response to videos circulated on TikTok showing Palestinians slapping religious Jews at random . Other videos made in response to them appear to show Jews assaulting Arabs . After keeping them a few hundred yards ( meters ) away from Damascus Gate , police used water cannon , stun grenades and mounted police to push far-right protesters back toward mostly Jewish west Jerusalem . <p> In all , police said 44 people were arrested and 20 officers were injured . <p> OPINION The other day as I stepped outside my front door ... a swallow swooped down within inches of my face . He or she - it happened in such a flash I did n't notice - was busy building a nest under the soffit of <p> B.C. 's most exciting winery development definitely keeps us on the qui vive with their constant stream of news . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Estates ' behemoth winery in Lake Country , we are enjoying th 
@@52764013 <h> Blinken heads to Middle East to consolidate ceasefire <p> US Secretary of State Antony Blinken has embarked on a trip to the Middle East to consolidate the ceasefire between Israel and Hamas which was reached after an 11-day bloodshed in an around the Gaza Strip , the State Department said . <p> Starting from Monday to Thursday , Blinken will travel to Jerusalem , Ramallah , Cairo and Amman to meet leaders of Israel , Palestine , Egypt , and Jordan , Xinhua news agency quoted the Department as saying . <p> Blinken and regional leaders will discuss essential follow-up efforts to consolidate the ceasefire and reduce risks of further conflict over the coming months , it added . <p> " Following up on our quiet , intensive diplomacy to bring about a ceasefire between Israel and Hamas , I have asked my Secretary of State , Antony Blinken , to travel to the Middle East this week , " President Joe Biden was quoted as saying in a statement issued by the White House on Monday . <p> " During his trip , Secretary Blinken will meet with Israeli leaders about our ironclad commitment to Israel 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rebuild ties to , and support for , the Palestinian people and leaders , after years of neglect . <p> " And he will engage other key partners in the region , including on the coordinated international effort to ensure immediate assistance reaches Gaza in a way that benefits the people there and not Hamas , and on reducing the risk of further conflict in the coming months , " the President added . <p> An Egyptian-brokered ceasefire agreement came into effect on May 21 at 2 a.m. between Israel and Hamas . <p> The 11-day clashes , the worst since 2014 , have left at least 240 Palestinians dead and 1,910 others wounded . 
@@52764220 <h> Israeli police allow Jews to visit flashpoint Jerusalem site <p> JERUSALEM ( AP ) -- Israeli police on Sunday escorted more than 120 Jewish visitors to a flashpoint holy site in Jerusalem where police actions in recent weeks had ignited protests and violence that triggered war in Gaza , according to the Islamic authority overseeing the site . <p> The Waqf said police cleared young Palestinians out of the Al-Aqsa Mosque compound and barred entry to Muslims under the age of 45 . Muslims who entered were required to leave their IDs with police at the entrance . It said six Palestinians were detained , with four later released . <p> Israeli police denied there was any age restriction and said they arrested five suspects who " violated the public order . " <p> Israeli police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld said the site was open for " regular visits " and that police had secured the area to prevent " incidents . " <p> Israeli police had briefly clashed with Palestinian protesters after Friday prayers in an early test for the truce , which had taken effect hours earlier . <p> The Waqf said Sunday it was the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ May 4 , a week before the war broke out . <p> The Al-Aqsa Mosque is the third holiest site in Islam . It sits on a sprawling hilltop in Jerusalem 's Old City that is revered by Jews as their holiest site because it was the location of the biblical temples . The site has often been the scene of Israeli-Palestinian violence and was the epicenter of the 2000 Palestinian intifada , or uprising . <p> Israeli police repeatedly clashed with Palestinian protesters in the days leading up to May 10 , when Gaza 's militant Hamas rulers fired long-range rockets at Jerusalem . The threatened eviction of dozens of Palestinian families from a nearby Jerusalem neighborhood was cited as another major trigger of the 11-day war , which was halted by a cease-fire on Friday . <p> In recent years , increasing numbers of religious and nationalist Jews have visited the site . Palestinians fear Israel plans to eventually take over the compound or partition it . The Israeli government has repeatedly said it has no intention of changing the status quo , under which the Waqf oversees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saw Israel unleash hundreds of airstrikes across Gaza at what it said were militant targets , while Hamas and other armed groups fired more than 4,000 rockets toward Israel . More than 250 people were killed , the vast majority of them Palestinians . <p> The Israeli strikes leveled a number of large buildings in the impoverished coastal territory , which is home to more than 2 million Palestinians . Gaza has been under a crippling Israeli-Egyptian blockade since Hamas , an Islamic militant group , seized power from forces loyal to the internationally backed Palestinian Authority in 2007 . <p> The International Committee of the Red Cross said Friday an estimated 700,000 Palestinians are affected by damage to power and electricity infrastructure , with the water supply decreased by 40% . The group said thousands of people have lost their homes , businesses and places of work in Gaza from the bombardment . <p> The war also may have left hundreds of unexploded munitions across the territory , the ICRC said . <p> On Sunday morning , hundreds of municipal workers and volunteers started a one-week campaign to clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a high-rise building that was flattened by Israeli warplanes during the early days of airstrikes on Gaza , with workers loading rubble into donkey carts and small pickup trucks . 
@@52764477 <p> I have reflected &amp; wanted to apologize for posts during the recent Israel/Hamas fighting that suggested Israel is committing " genocide " . It 's not accurate , it 's inflammatory , disrespectful &amp; is being used to justify antisemitism here &amp; abroad . Now is the time to avoid hyperbole . <p> Recent violence saw more than 250 people killed , most of them in Gaza , after the two sides exchanged rocket fire , the BBC reported . <p> A ceasefire was agreed on Thursday to end the fighting , which began on May 10 . <p> It 's not clear which post Ruffalo was referring to with his message above , but the actor has retweeted several posts about the conflict over the past few weeks , including : <p> Over 30 children killed . Mothers dead . Hundreds injured . We are on the brink of a full-scale war . Sanctions on South Africa helped free its Black people -- it 's time for sanctions on Israel to free Palestinians . Join the call . #GazaUnderAttackhttps : //t.co/N72e0xLvX5 <p> Please @JoeBiden please join the world community and bipartisan leaders here in calling for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Israel and Palestine . The world needs your leadership . <p> Ruffalo had previously spoken about being an advocate for Palestinian rights as he spoke to host Mehdi Hasan on NBC back in October . <p> The " Avengers " star shared , " My connection to Palestine came through Palestinians and hearing their stories and then watching this asymmetrical warfare being acted upon them ... <p> " There 's no reason that an ally of American should not be held to the same standards as we would hold any other nation in the world ... I was called an anti-Semite about it , for doing that -- which was really tough to hear . " <p> Watch @markruffalo condemn Israel 's " assymetrical warfare " against the Palestinians &amp; argue " there is no reason that an ally of America should not be held to the same standards as any other nation . He slams " that kind of oppression , that kind of apartheid . " On the **41;1270;TOOLONG 
@@52764548 <h> Iran spectates Gaza massacres , Palestinians insult Gulf <p> 1 week ago <p> UNDOUBTEDLY , the events transpiring in Jerusalem , Al-Aqsa Mosque , Gaza and the occupied Palestinian cities are condemned and rejected at all levels . However , the question that the Palestinians have to answer themselves is -- What have you done for your country ? What has the so-called " axis of resistance " done apart from shouting slogans and hurling threats for 40 years about the liberation of Palestine , and praying at Al-Aqsa Mosque , while committing massacres in Iraq , Syria and Yemen ? Is n't Iran present today on the Syrian-Israeli borders ? Why did it not hit Tel Aviv , Haifa , Jaffa , Ashdod , and other Israeli cities with its missiles instead of targeting the holy sites in Makkah and Madinah ? Or is it satisfied with just celebrating the so-called " Jerusalem Day " through military parades ? One week ago , the commander of the Iranian Revolutionary Guards Hossein Salami said , " The first strike of the Zionist entity could be the last , as it can be destroyed with a single operation ... @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces to take and strike Israel ? So why not take that opportunity ? Since the events of the Al-Aqsa Mosque began followed by the bombing of Israel by the Palestinian movements -- Hamas and Islamic Jihad -- with rockets , many Palestinians have strived to attack Saudi Arabia , the United Arab Emir-ates and other Arabian Gulf states , and hold them responsible for what is currently transpiring in Palestine.Although we do not understand how the conversation was linked , the Gulf countries announced their condemnation of Israel 's practices from the first moment of the crisis . They protested in international forums , called for a unified Ar-ab position , and declared their readiness to support the Palestinians . So , we wonder why Palestine is taking such an ungrateful position ? Everyone in the region knows that the balance of power tends to favor Israel internationally , and that the United States of America is standing firmly behind it and providing it with all support , and even the United Nations ... So do these people think that insulting the United Arab Emirates , Saudi Arabia and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Does n't the Palestinian National Authority coordinate on security aspects with Tel Aviv , and that the Palestinian minis-ters and officials meet with them daily ? Does n't Hamas hold secret meetings with Israel 's security agency Shin Bet ? Why such political ambivalence in the perception of the Arab countries ? We are not mistaken when we say that the Palestinians have failed to be an advocate for such a just cause , and that they have become professionals in losing brothers , supporters and friends.Those who talk about liberating Palestine with a few rockets that they hurl at Israel get their salaries in shekels . All their food supplies come from the settlement areas they built with their hands.So how does this equation balance seem to these people -- working for the occupier and living by his money , and then claiming resistance and struggle for liberation ? It was clear since 1969 , when the Australian Jew Michael Rohan burned down Al-Aqsa Mosque , and no one on earth moved to defend it , that the Palestinians do not want to liberate their country.At that time , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to that incident , " I did not sleep at night . All that I imagined was that the Arabs will enter Palestine in waves from all directions . However , when morning broke out and nothing had happened , I realized that we can do whatever we want , because this is a sleeping nation . " For 50 years , the Palestinians did not take any positive steps towards their land . Even the agreement they settled for which gave them national authority was under pressure from the Gulf states particularly Saudi Arabia.They accepted crumbs at the time when they could announce general mobilization , attack the Israelis with stones and liberate their country , as the Israeli army will not be able to kill eight million Palestinians.All that the Palestinian factions want is to earn money by trading their case through insulting the Arabs . For this they must now remove their thorns with their own hands . Iran , which occupies the islands of the United Arab Emirates and exterminates the Arabs in Iraq and Syria , will help them , because it believes the road @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people of these countries.By Ahmed **26;633;TOOLONG , the Arab Times 
@@52766192 <p> Rogers Media uses cookies for personalization , to customize its online advertisements , and for other purposes . Learn more or change your cookie preferences . Rogers Media supports the Digital Advertising Alliance principles . By continuing to use our service , you agree to our use of cookies . <p> We use cookies ( why ? ) You can change cookie preferences . Continued site use signifies consent . <h> Hamilton Rabbi charged after Israeli consulate in Toronto vandalized <p> Rabbi David Mivasair , a member of Independent Jewish Voices , is shown demonstrating out front of the Consulate General of Israel . <p> Police have laid charges after the Consulate General of Israel in Toronto was vandalized last week . <p> Investigators say during a protest that took place on Friday morning , red paint was poured across the steps leading to the entrance of the building . <p> Following an investigation , 69-year-old David Mivasair of Hamilton has been charged with mischief under $5,000 . <p> Members of the Jewish community and allies staged a demonstration outside the consulate on Bloor Street over what it called " bloodshed from Israel 's violence in Gaza and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ destruction inflicted by Israel in Gaza , as well as the heightened violence by Israel across Palestine , can not be washed away , " said Rabbi Mivasair of Independent Jewish Voices . " The ceasefire does n't end the injustice and oppression . " <p> Powerful photos from today 's action . " We are making the violence of Israel 's brutal occupation visible on the consulate 's doorstep in Toronto . We are making it impossible for anyone to enter &amp; exit Israeli govt offices w/o confronting the bloodshed they 're complicit in. " **26;1387;TOOLONG 
@@52766458 <p> This copy is for your personal non-commercial use only . To order presentation-ready copies of Toronto Star content for distribution to colleagues , clients or customers , or inquire about permissions/licensing , please go to : **27;1559;TOOLONG <h> Police probe sidewalk brawl involving Palestinian supporters <p> LOS ANGELES ( AP ) -- A brawl involving pro-Palestinians who attacked Jewish diners at a Los Angeles restaurant will be investigated as a hate crime , the city 's mayor said . <p> Witnesses said members of a car caravan flying Palestinian flags attacked outdoor diners just before 10 p.m . Tuesday at a sushi restaurant in the Beverly Grove area as violence in Israel and the Gaza Strip intensified . <p> The Los Angeles Times said a witness , who asked to remain anonymous for safety reasons , said some people from the caravan threw bottles and chanted " death to Jews " and " free Palestine . " <p> " Somebody in one of the cars driving by started throwing glass bottles or glass cups at the tables and they shattered everywhere , " a woman diner , who did n't want to be identified , told KCBS-TV . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ running toward the tables and began asking " Who 's Jewish ? " the woman said . <p> KTLA-TV reported that a witness , who was not identified , said fighting erupted when two men replied they were . <p> Video showed a man being punched on a sidewalk . <p> The man , who wished to be identified only as M , told KABC-TV that he was helping plan an upcoming wedding with four Jewish friends when the car caravan rolled up . <p> Video showed some men dressed in black getting out of a car and pushing M 's friend to the ground . M said grabbed a metal stanchion . Video showed him swinging it at attackers . <p> M said he grabbed it to scare the men . <p> " There were many girls behind us . I was scared that they would attack everybody , " he said . <p> M was followed to his car , punched and pepper sprayed , and was treated at a hospital , he said . <p> Police said five victims were punched or hurt by broken glass , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were being sought . <p> Mayor Eric Garcetti , in tweets posted Wednesday afternoon , said the LAPD is looking into the assault as a hate crime and condemned what he called an " organized , anti-Semitic attack . " <p> " Jewish Angelenos , like all residents , should always feel safe in our city , " he posted . " L.A. is a city of belonging , not of hate . " <p> A weekend protest in West Los Angeles in support of Palestinians drew thousands of peaceful protesters . An earlier Tuesday demonstration outside the Israeli consulate also was peaceful and an organizer , Amani Barakat , told KCBS-TV that he would n't condone violence . <h> Loading ... <p> Loading ... Loading ... Loading ... Loading ... Loadi ... " We 've organized many protests , Saturday 's protest we had more than 20,000 people that showed up and not one single incident , " Barakat said . <p> The Council on American-Islamic Relations for Greater Los Angeles condemned the incident . <p> " As a civil rights and advocacy organization , we support everyone 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rally in support of their respective political views , " Executive Director Hussam Ayloush said in a statement . " However , despite heightened tensions in Palestine and Israel , it is never acceptable for that conflict to spill over into our streets and cities . Violence and intimidation should be condemned , investigated , and if warranted , prosecuted . " <h> More from The Standard &amp; Partners <h> More News <h> Top Stories <p> Copyright owned or licensed by Toronto Star Newspapers Limited . All rights reserved . Republication or distribution of this content is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Toronto Star Newspapers Limited and/or its licensors . To order copies of Toronto Star articles , please go to : **27;1588;TOOLONG 
@@52767525 <h> Gaza offensive took Hamas years back : Israeli commander <p> A senior Israeli military commander said that its offensive in the Gaza Strip " took Hamas years back and rebuilding it will be very difficult " . <p> The remarks on Friday came after a ceasefire between Israel and Hamas took effect at 2 a.m. , ending the 11-day bloodshed in the Gaza Strip , reports Xinhua news agency . <p> During the 11-day intense fighting , approximately 230 Palestinians were killed in Gaza , and almost 2,000 others injured . <p> In Israel , 13 people were killed . <p> Briefing foreign journalists on the condition of anonymity , the senior commander did not give the number of targets struck by Israel , only saying there were thousands of them . <p> " Israel 's goal was to change Hamas 's calculations when it decides to provoke Israel , " he said . <p> The fighting began when Hamas launched a missile attack against Jerusalem , after weeks of tensions in the city surrounding the Al-Aqsa mosque . <p> The attack caught Israel by surprise and led to massive retaliation and the launching of an operation dubbed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ <p> During the operation , over 4,000 rockets were fired by Palestinian militants into Israel , according to the Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) . <p> The offensive was meant to " caution Israel 's other adversaries in the Middle East " , said the senior commander , noting that " our fight in Gaza is a projection of our deterrence in the Middle East . " <p> As the operation continued and the Palestinian death toll rose , Israel came under harsh international criticism . <p> In one of the most contested Israeli airstrikes , a building housing media organizations including the Associated Press and Al Jazeera was targeted . <p> Residents of the building were given a warning and had evacuated before it was struck . <p> IDF claimed Hamas was staging major operations from the same building . <p> Saying the building was proved to be used by Hamas for intelligence , research and development activity , the senior commander said on Friday that " this is sensitive intelligence which we shared with senior American officials in total transparency " . 
@@52767638 <p> Rogers Media uses cookies for personalization , to customize its online advertisements , and for other purposes . Learn more or change your cookie preferences . Rogers Media supports the Digital Advertising Alliance principles . By continuing to use our service , you agree to our use of cookies . <p> We use cookies ( why ? ) You can change cookie preferences . Continued site use signifies consent . <h> Hamilton Rabbi charged after Israeli consulate in Toronto vandalized <p> Rabbi David Mivasair , a member of Independent Jewish Voices , is shown demonstrating out front of the Consulate General of Israel . <p> Police have laid charges after the Consulate General of Israel in Toronto was vandalized last week . <p> Investigators say during a protest that took place on Friday morning , red paint was poured across the steps leading to the entrance of the building . <p> Following an investigation , 69-year-old David Mivasair of Hamilton has been charged with mischief under $5,000 . <p> Members of the Jewish community and allies staged a demonstration outside the consulate on Bloor Street over what it called " bloodshed from Israel 's violence in Gaza and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ destruction inflicted by Israel in Gaza , as well as the heightened violence by Israel across Palestine , can not be washed away , " said Rabbi Mivasair of Independent Jewish Voices . " The ceasefire does n't end the injustice and oppression . " <p> Powerful photos from today 's action . " We are making the violence of Israel 's brutal occupation visible on the consulate 's doorstep in Toronto . We are making it impossible for anyone to enter &amp; exit Israeli govt offices w/o confronting the bloodshed they 're complicit in. " **26;2612;TOOLONG 
@@52768502 <p> Today 's Morning Brief is brought to you by GCT 's #BetterDeltaport campaign . The Port of Vancouver 's business case for Roberts Bank Terminal 2 is falling apart . Why keep pushing ahead with a flawed plan instead of considering a better option for Canada , taxpayers , and the environment ? Learn more about the better option . <p> -- Pandemic audit out today : Canada 's auditor general will release reports today on how the federal government performed in terms of its response to the pandemic . The reports will look at PPE and medical device procurement before and during the pandemic , as well as whether Ottawa supplied enough assistance to First Nations , Inuit and M ? t is communities . <p> -- Kady O'Malley looks ahead to the rest of the day in politics with iPolitics AM : " Finance Minister Chrystia Freeland is set for a special primetime appearance on the floor of the House of Commons , where she can expect to be cross-examined over her department 's spending plans for the coming year , as well as her overall fiscal priorities , including -- but not limited to -- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House last month . " <p> -- Canadians approve of slow border reopening : While Prime Minister Trudeau begins to sketch out a plan to reopen Canada 's border with the U.S. , Canadians are apparently happy to take it slow . According to an Angus Reid poll , nearly half of respondents were happy to keep the border closed until at least September . More than three-quarters said they would support a vaccine passport . <p> -- Anxiety about the return to normal : More than half of Canadians are nervous about the return to " normal " after the COVID-19 pandemic , according to a Leger survey . It found that 52 per cent of respondents felt that returning to pre-COVID life was a source of anxiety , given how governments are announcing plans to reopen . <p> -- Pallister apologizes for foul language : Manitoba Premier Brian Pallister apologized yesterday after using " unparliamentary " language during a committee hearing . Appearing before a legislature committee examining the provincial budget , he was caught on mic suggesting someone was " an a -- hole " . <p> @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anniversary of George Floyd 's murder with rallies , moments of silence , and street festivals . Some of his family members , including his daughter , met with President Biden and VP Harris at the White House . His younger sister , however , attended the Minneapolis memorial and expressed frustration over the lack of progress the past year . Gunfire was heard at the Minneapolis intersection where Floyd died shortly before the festivities began ; one person was reportedly shot . <p> -- Mali latest : West African mediators will meet Mali 's detained president and prime minister today , after they were yesterday taken to a military base by officers who led last summer 's coup . France , Britain , Germany , and the UN have called for the immediate release of the interim leaders , who were themselves instated by military officers last year . The UN Security Council will hold an emergency meeting today at France 's request . <p> -- U.S. reengages with Palestinians : The U.S. announced it will reopen the consulate in Jerusalem that handled relations with Palestinians , which was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Antony Blinken will also ask Congress for an additional $75 million in aid to help rebuild Gaza after the 11-day conflict . <p> An amateur fossil hunter found an 84-million-year-old fossilized turtle on Vancouver Island . As The Globe reports , the fossil is so old that when the turtle was alive , Vancouver Island was in a completely different location -- and below the ocean 's surface . <h> More from iPolitics <p> By submitting content , you agree that you are personally responsible for the content that you publish and that iPolitics owns the copyright in the content that you submit . You also agree to comply with any specific rules posted on blogs or forums . Please see the Terms of Use for more details . 
@@52769034 <h> Between Palestinian misery and antisemitism , a way out of despair <p> When strong and brave Jewish voices in support of Palestinian rights , such as those of Judy Rebick and Judy Haiven , feel the need to speak out against antisemitism you know something 's going on . <p> On social media , Judy Haiven , a member of Independent Jewish Voices , a group that calls for sanctions against Israel , shared an article called " How to Talk About Israel Without Being Antisemitic . " <p> Among author Mallory Mosner 's recommendations : <p> do not conflate Israel with the Jewish people ; <p> do not deny the Holocaust or the many other historic cases of anti-Jewish violence ; <p> do not hold every Jew accountable for every action of the Israeli government ; <p> and never equate Israel 's actions -- however objectionable -- to those of Nazi Germany . <p> Halifax activist Rana Zaman has shared much information critical of Israel and supportive of Palestinian rights on social media . A few days ago , she also shared a post warning of fake accounts set up to sow hatred , and added : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Halifax and would like to say antisemitism , racism , bigotry and hatred of any kind is unacceptable . One can not advocate for human rights of one group while taking away the rights of another . " <p> Another person who describes themself only as " a Palestinian " posted these thoughts : <p> " If you are pro-Palestinian with antisemitic intentions ... we do n't want your support ... Palestine is a human-rights cause . If you are using this to intimidate members of the Jewish community ... then you are defeating the purpose of our cause ... " <p> These general comments are borne out by some firsthand accounts . A woman in London , England , describes troublemakers driving through Jewish neighbourhoods shouting , " Fuck the Jews and rape their daughters . " <p> Others , including a number in Canada , recount physical confrontations between Jews -- some quietly minding their own business , some openly supporting Israel -- and notional supporters of the Palestinians . <p> Mind you , at least one of these accounts turned out to be false . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Jewish bystander being mobbed by pro-Palestinian demonstrators turned out to be something quite different . It was , in fact , a confrontation between a knife-wielding member of the violent and extremist Jewish Defense League and a pro-Palestinian group trying to demonstrate peacefully . <p> CBC had broadcast the original false story , including some spurious and selective video that had been shared on social media . Then , to its credit , the broadcaster published the correct version . <h> Humiliations and provocations without end <p> By contrast , there is also the reality of what the New York Timesdescribes as the " continuing Palestinian misery at the heart of the conflict . " <p> " Even in supposedly quiet periods , when the world is not paying attention , Palestinians from all walks of life routinely experience exasperating impossibilities and petty humiliations , bureaucratic controls that force agonizing choices , and the fragility and cruelty of life under military rule , now in its second half-century ... And the provocations do not stop when the fighting ends . " <p> Among the many cases Times reporters David @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authorities razed the East Jerusalem home of a Palestinian family in order to " improve views of the Old City for tourists . " <p> The reporters explain how , as part of a general rightward movement in Israel , settlers who seek to expand Jewish control over the West Bank and East Jerusalem have taken control of bodies such as the Israeli government 's park authority . That body cited an " old plan for a park encircling Jerusalem 's Old City ... and set about clearing one unpermitted house after another . " <p> Halbfinger and Rasgon also describe the many military check points and barriers that make life a constant humiliating exercise in fear and frustration for thousands of Palestinians who merely want to get to work and back alive . <p> And so , the plight of the four extended families who still face eviction in East Jerusalem 's Sheikh Jarrah neighbourhood is hardly a unique case . It turns out this threatened eviction case was simply one humiliating prod too many for the Palestinians . <p> As Jon Allen , Canada 's former ambassador to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Canadian ) , writes in an opinion piece for TheGlobe and Mail : How long did Israel think Palestinians would put up with their current situation ? <p> As Allen sees it : <p> " The occupation is 54 years long . There has been no path toward peace or even a glimmer of hope in that direction for 12 years -- since Mr. Netanyahu became Prime Minister . How long did Israel think Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza would put up with military rule and military courts , house demolitions and evictions , settlement expansion and daily settler violence ignored by the Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) , and severe restrictions on their movements ? How long would the Arab residents of Jerusalem -- many of whom have been denied Israeli citizenship -- accept their third-class status ? For how long do Israelis think this situation is sustainable ? " <p> Among those of us here in Canada who feel some connection to the beleaguered region , whether because we are Jewish or Palestinian or just because we care , despair often seems like the only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ persist in believing a just settlement is possible -- and that includes , here in Canada , many Jews . <h> Affection for Israel and support for Palestinian right to return <p> Independent Jewish Voices has existed for many years , with chapters in many parts of Canada . Now , there is another group , with a similar outlook , but a somewhat different approach . <p> The new group is called Drachim . Carleton professor Mira Sucharov launched this group as a personal initiative , on Facebook . Her aim is to " combine Palestine solidarity with an affection for Israeli/Hebrew culture , with the aim of supporting a reimagined polity where both communities can flourish . " <p> Among Drachim 's goals are an end to the West Bank occupation and to Israel 's siege on Gaza , legal reform in Israel to bring about equality for Palestinian citizens , and , most contentiously , " recognition of the right of Palestinian refugees to return , with the right to restitution for property expropriated by Israel . " <p> Drachim does not share one of the predictable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the so-called two-state solution . They put it this way : <p> " We do not demand particular post-justice state arrangements , namely whether the outcome is one state or two , or a confederation arrangement ... Calls for a two-state solution have served , if inadvertently , to entrench the status quo ... As the two-state solution has become less of an apparent possibility , the demand for it ... implies that Palestinians should be patient . " <p> " We feel we can not demand patience from Palestinians for wanting to exercise their basic human rights . " <p> Drachim 's ultimate goal is for " a society that nurtures and elevates the cultural and linguistic traditions of Israeli Jews and of Palestinian Arabs ... We want to see the support and funding of new projects that continue to produce fine Hebrew-Israeli and Arabic-Palestinian cultural products ... Both communities and cultures must be encouraged to flourish . " <p> If Drachim 's mission sounds utopian that 's because it is . <p> Then again , there was a time when it seemed the Berlin Wall would stand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beyond most of our lifetimes . <p> Karl Nerenberg has been a journalist and filmmaker for more than 25 years . Heis rabble 's politics reporter . <p> More people are reading rabble.ca than ever and unlike many news organizations , we have never put up a paywall -- at rabble we 've always believed in making our reporting and analysis free to all , while striving to make it sustainable as well . Media is n't free to produce . rabble 's total budget is likely less than what big corporate media spend on photocopying ( we kid you not ! ) and we do not have any major foundation , sponsor or angel investor . Our main supporters are people and organizations -- like you . This is why we need your help . You are what keep us sustainable . <p> rabble.ca has staked its existence on you . We live or die on community support -- your support ! We get hundreds of thousands of visitors and we believe in them . We believe in you . We believe people will put in what they can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ <p> So what is the easy answer for us ? Depend on a community of visitors who care passionately about media that amplifies the voices of people struggling for change and justice . It really is that simple . When the people who visit rabble care enough to contribute a bit then it works for everyone . <p> And so we 're asking you if you could make a donation , right now , to help us carry forward on our mission . Make a donation today . 
@@52769198 <h> Eject the enemies of joy , regain solemnity <p> 1 day ago <p> DAY after day , the horizon is getting darker and darker . Darkness covers the national will that seeks to find a solution that will stop this political dust storm , which is heavy on the nation 's lungs and has nearly afflicted it with a chronic disease . <p> This disease can only be avoided by reviewing the democratic experience of the past six decades to the present day , and benefiting from the lessons of the crises this country suffered . This is because each team is entrenched behind the illusions of victory when in reality the actual losers are the common citizens as well as Kuwait . This means more crises that will remain unsolved because the intentions are not pure . <p> When the Constituent Assembly began preparing the constitution , the members sought to strip the ruling family of most of its powers and privileges , and besiege the government within specific frameworks that could not enable it to exercise its correct role . This led to an imbalance between the two shoulders in managing the country , and resulted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislative authority and its executive counterpart followed , sparking the 1967 election crisis , which was followed by another one in 1976 in which the National Assembly was dissolved in an unconstitutional manner . <p> However , the suspension of some articles of the constitution was not sufficient to reorganize and restructure the relations between the two decision-making wings ( the government and the parliament ) such that the government collided again with the opposition and it led to the dissolution of the legislative authority in 1986 . <p> This scene is similar to what we are experiencing today with the parliament shelling out interpellations against the Prime Minister and his team without taking into consideration the least amount of risks experienced in any of the past crises . <p> Conceding <p> In all these stations , the government was conceding more and more to the enemies of joy -- the Muslim Brotherhood Group and others who stubbornly sought to impose their will on the nation -- until they were able to form a representative majority in more than one parliament . They were able to control the financial , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They continue to have the upper hand in the investments that they direct for their interests , and so they have enacted laws that shape the society according to their desires . <p> The government was unable to confront them , despite their deviation from the proper course of decision making , which led to the current situation that has worsened with the failure to address the COVID-19 pandemic and its financial and economic repercussions . <p> The state seems unable to cushion its people at a time when donations and loans are being distributed to 170 countries . It continues to announce the provision of aid to the Palestinians and the organizations in Gaza and take extreme political positions in this regard in contrast to the global political mood , while it is miserly towards the Kuwaiti citizens . It seems as if it is a spring that nourishes those who are far while those close to it die of thirst . <p> Unfortunately , this policy is the natural result of the enemies of joy controlling the joints of the state , while the government keeps on justifying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not approve those laws and decisions that stimulate the national economy " . The fact that they spend generously abroad increases the popular resentment against the executive authority . <p> In conclusion , what we are witnessing today is the natural result of all these piled-up unresolved issues . If the state does not take the initiative to solve the internal dilemma , the popular anger will expand further . <p> I believe that the first steps in the solution are to reconsider the constitution , reform the relationship between the two authorities , and restore prestige to the ruling family . <p> Last but not the least , the state should suspend the financial generosity it shows abroad and instead turn inward , as Kuwait has much good in it but it is not unable to help its own people . @ @ Sentencing in Sudbury shooting case delayed again <h> Article content <p> Sudbury man involved in a shooting on Whittaker Street in 2020 and a host of other violent crimes will now be sentenced Aug. 31 . <p> Richard Derouin 's sentencing has been delayed several times , but a new date has been set in video bail remand court in Sudbury . <p> We apologize , but this video has failed to load . <p> Try refreshing your browser . <h> Sentencing in Sudbury shooting case delayed againBack to video <p> Derouin was one of five people charged in a shooting on Feb. 9 of last year that sent two men to hospital . <p> He pleaded guilty in the Ontario Court of Justice earlier this year to aggravated assault and possession of a weapon while prohibited . <p> Court heard Derouin was in the Whittaker Street apartment when he called friends to come and get him . <p> When they got there , two other men went inside , shooting two men in the apartment in the process . <p> Derouin , the shooters and two women then fled in a car , but a witness followed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , among other items . Undercover police officers also saw what they did . <p> Greater Sudbury Police later stopped the five people in the car during a high-risk takedown in Azilda . <h> Advertisement <p> Story continues below <p> This advertisement has not loaded yet , but your article continues below . <h> Article content <p> Among the other accused , Cameron Alamina , 23 , of Toronto , was sentenced to 10 years for shooting the men on Whittaker Street and a vicious home invasion on Bloor Street on Jan. 20 , 2020 . Alamina pistol-whipped a woman and cut a man with a machete . <p> He pleaded guilty to a variety of charges stemming from the two attacks , including attempted murder , fentanyl possession , aggravated assault and assault causing bodily harm . <p> Keyshawn Halovich , 19 , of Toronto , meanwhile , has pleaded to aggravated assault and possession of a loaded , restricted weapon ( a handgun ) for the shooting on Whittaker Street . He is to be sentenced Friday . <p> The two women in the case -- Shamika Ross @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occupant of a motor vehicle knowing there was a firearm inside , and assault causing bodily harm . <p> Ross received a nine-month conditional sentence , Miller a suspended sentence . Ross was driving the car the night of the shooting . <p> As for Derouin , he was involved in a number of other crimes , some of them violent , over the past few years and for which he will be sentenced on Aug. 31 . <p> Derouin has admitted to assaulting a man on Aug. 12 , 2019 ; mischief under $5,000 for breaking a glass door on Nov. 28 , 2019 ; robbing a man on Feb. 28 , 2020 ; three counts of breach of probation ; and breach of bail for contacting a woman he was not supposed to . <h> Share this article in your social network <h> Share this Story : Sentencing in Sudbury shooting case delayed again <h> Latest National Stories <h> Advertisement <p> Story continues below <p> This advertisement has not loaded yet , but your article continues below . <h> News Near Sault Ste. Marie <h> This Week in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles . Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site . We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful . We have enabled email notifications -- you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment , there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments . Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings . <h> Notice for the Postmedia Network <p> This website uses cookies to personalize your content ( including ads ) , and allows us to analyze our traffic . Read more about cookies here . By continuing to use our site , you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy . 
@@52771868 <h> Gaza reconstruction , not Hamas pockets <p> 11 hours ago <p> IT is easy to wage wars , but it is very difficult to rebuild what has been destroyed , especially in an international pariah area such as the Gaza Strip , which is controlled by the Hamas group that is classified as a terrorist group globally . <p> The firm American position was based on this aspect . President Joe Biden said , " We will prevent Hamas from benefiting from the funds intended for the reconstruction program of the Gaza Strip . We will mobilize international support necessary for this reconstruction campaign " . <p> It has been clear since last Friday that this group , which works according to Iranian directives , has realized that the pressure cards it exercised during the conflict are no longer valid during the time of ceasefire and negotiations on the basis of the American initiative for the establishment of two states . <p> The Hamas leader Khaled Meshal tried to block the support project , saying , " The movement is sticking to directing funds for the reconstruction of the Gaza Strip through its channels " , supplementing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Political Bureau Ismail Haniyeh declared in his last speech when he said , " ... by the efforts of the benevolent Arabs , we will work to reconstruct Gaza ... " <p> The benevolent Arabs that Haniyeh is talking about are the ones whose photographs the supporters of Hamas had burned in some Arab capitals , that is , the Gulf states . These states ' rights were violated by the leaders of the Palestinian factions in Gaza after decades of financial and political support . These leaders gave credit for their achievements , if any , to Iran , which employed them in its expansion project and provided them with a few missiles to attack Israel whenever orders came from Tehran . <p> There is no doubt that the US administration 's position to " coordinate with the Gulf countries and donors to deliver funds through the United Nations and the Palestinian Authority to the affected people " is what Gaza really needs . This will happen only according to an international fund under the supervision of the United Nations so that the money does not go into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . <p> The haters may have realized that there is no solution to the issue except through international peace references . Any disturbance in this matter will increase the burden of the problems that the sector suffers from , because the international community , which supports Israel 's right to defend itself , will neither allow these terrorist groups to lead the march nor obstruct it . <p> Therefore , all eyes have turned to Ramallah , where the internationally recognized authority will determine the direction that should be taken . It has expressed its position clearly through its Foreign Minister Riyad Al-Maliki who said , " The positions of the American administration come in the right direction and can be built upon . The Palestinian side is dealing positively with the American positions and tendencies to achieve peace according to international references , foremost of which is the two-state solution for peace " . <p> As per this fact , all of the Brotherhood 's remnants in the Arab countries , including Kuwait , should stop embarrassing their countries by deliberately pushing them to adopt extremist positions that affect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and calling for " no normalization of ties with Israel " . <p> The fact is that they are well aware normalization will happen inevitably , and whoever does not board this train will be trampled under the wheels of international ostracism and isolation . <p> In conclusion , the reconstruction of Gaza will not happen with Gulf money going into the pockets of the Hamas leaders to repeat the massacre that they recently committed in Gaza in a bid to raise the Arab shares of the Mullahs regime and the Muslim Brotherhood Group . It will go to the people of Gaza , who undoubtedly have today realized the extent of the terrible crime that Hamas has committed against them . 
@@52771876 <p> Rogers Media uses cookies for personalization , to customize its online advertisements , and for other purposes . Learn more or change your cookie preferences . Rogers Media supports the Digital Advertising Alliance principles . By continuing to use our service , you agree to our use of cookies . <p> We use cookies ( why ? ) You can change cookie preferences . Continued site use signifies consent . <h> Israeli police allow Jews to visit flashpoint Jerusalem site <p> by The Associated Press <p> Posted May 23 , 2021 3:42 am EDT <p> Last Updated May 23 , 2021 at 3:54 am EDT <p> JERUSALEM ( AP ) -- Israeli police on Sunday escorted around 50 Jewish visitors to a flashpoint holy site in Jerusalem where police actions in recent weeks had ignited protests and violence that triggered war in Gaza , according to the Islamic authority overseeing the site . <p> The Waqf said police cleared young Palestinians out of the Al-Aqsa Mosque compound and barred entry to Muslims under the age of 45 . Muslims who entered were required to leave their IDs with police at the entrance . It said three Muslims were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Micky Rosenfeld said the site was open for " regular visits " and that police had secured the area to prevent " incidents , " without elaborating . <p> Israeli police had briefly clashed with Palestinian protesters after Friday prayers in an early test for the truce , which had taken effect hours earlier . <p> The Waqf said Sunday it was the first time Jews had been allowed to visit the site since May 4 , a week before the war broke out . <p> The Al-Aqsa Mosque is the third holiest site in Islam . It sits on a sprawling hilltop in Jerusalem 's Old City that is revered by Jews as their holiest site because it was the location of the biblical temples . The site has often been the scene of Israeli-Palestinian violence and was the epicenter of the 2000 Palestinian intifada , or uprising . <p> Israeli police repeatedly clashed with Palestinian protesters in the days leading up to May 10 , when Gaza 's militant Hamas rulers fired long-range rockets at Jerusalem . The threatened eviction of dozens of Palestinian families from a nearby @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 11-day war , which was halted by a cease-fire on Friday . <p> In recent years , increasing numbers of religious and nationalist Jews have visited the site . Palestinians fear Israel plans to eventually take over the compound or partition it . The Israeli government has repeatedly said it has no intention of changing the status quo , under which the Waqf oversees the site under Jordanian custodianship. 
@@73052122 <h> Dua Lipa blasts group that condemned her for Mideast stance <p> Mark Kennedy <p> FILE - In this Sunday , March 14 , 2021 file photo , Dua Lipa arrives at the 63rd annual Grammy Awards at the Los Angeles Convention Center . Singer Dua Lipa is blasting the organization which paid for a full-page ad in The New York Times that called her antisemitic for her support of Palestinians , saying it used her name " shamelessly " to " advance their ugly campaign with falsehoods and blatant misrepresentations . " Lipa took to Twitter on Saturday , May 22 , 2021 to " reject the false and appalling allegations " and said the World Values Network twisted what she stands for . " I stand in solidarity with all oppressed people and reject all forms of racism , " she wrote . ( Photo by Jordan Strauss/Invision/AP , File ) <p> May 22 , 2021 - 3:57 PM <p> NEW YORK ( AP ) -- Singer Dua Lipa is blasting an organization that paid for a full-page ad in The New York Times that called her antisemitic for her support of Palestinians , saying it used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaign with falsehoods and blatant misrepresentations . " <p> In the rambling ad which appeared in Saturday 's newspaper in the main section , Rabbi Shmuley Boteach , the head of the World Values Network , named Lipa , and the models Bella and Gigi Hadid as three " mega-influencers " who have " accused Israel of ethnic cleansing " and " vilified the Jewish State . " <p> Lipa took to Twitter on Saturday afternoon to " reject the false and appalling allegations " and said the World Values Network twisted what she stands for . " I stand in solidarity with all oppressed people and reject all forms of racism , " she wrote . <p> Tensions increased in the Mideast since May 10 , when Hamas militants in Gaza fired long-range rockets toward Jerusalem . The barrage came after days of clashes between Palestinian protesters and Israeli police at the Al-Aqsa Mosque compound . <p> A cease-fire was declared Friday . The 11-day war left more than 250 dead -- the vast majority Palestinians -- and brought widespread devastation to the already impoverished Hamas-ruled Gaza Strip . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pro-Palestinian messages , including the singer Zayn , Roger Waters , The Weeknd and Mark Ruffalo . Lipa is dating Anwar Hadid , Gigi and Bella 's brother . <p> Did you see the lunar eclipse early this morning ? Visibility may have been obscured in some parts of the Thompson-Okanagan during the total portion of the lunar eclipse that took place between 4:10 a.m. and 4:25 a.m. today , May 26 . It <p> B.C. spot prawn mania is underway . These delicious , sweet prawns harvested from our own west coast waters have become an epic success story . Back in 2006 , Vancouver chefs decided to throw a festival to honour this local bounty and to raise 
@@52772327 <h> Alberta extending pandemic business supports until end of June <p> May 26 , 2021 , 5:45 p.m. *2 min read <p> Justine Martinson , owner of Lipstick Empire Laser Spa in Edmonton , says she has kept her business afloat using savings since she has n't been able to qualify for provincial support . ( CBC - image credit ) <p> Alberta will extend supports to small businesses and the tourism industry for another month , the announcement coming on the same day the premier unveiled a plan that could see the province lift all COVID-19 restrictions by July . <p> The government is extending the application deadline for the third intake of the Small and Medium Enterprise Relaunch Grant until June 30 . <p> The program pays eligible small businesses impacted by COVID-19 closure orders up to $10,000 for relaunch costs . The province will also extend a program that allows tourism operators to keep the levies they collect for another three months . The program , which was to end on March 30 , has been extended until June 30 . <p> Jobs , Economy and Innovation Minister Doug Schweitzer said he hoped Wednesday 's reopening announcement news means this will the last time Alberta will have to extend small business supports due to COVID-19 closures . <p> " If your business has been impacted by health orders and you 've seen a drop of 30 per cent of your revenue as a result , apply now , " he said . <p> Some business owners have complained that the criteria for the grants are so narrow they have been shut out of the process . <p> Justine Martinson , owner of Lipstick Empire Spa in Edmonton , said she has been using her savings to finance her business through several openings and closings over the past 15 months . <p> " You have to fit into this tiny little box to get ( a ) subsidy , which we do n't , " she said . " So that 's why a lot of businesses are funding their businesses themselves . " <p> NDP critic Deron Bilous said his caucus has talked to other small business owners who applied when the third intake opened in March but are still waiting for money from the province . <p> " The premier expanded the application period for the grant today but ca n't even get the money out the door to those who have already applied , " Bilous told the legislature on Wednesday . <p> Finance Minister Travis Toews defended the government 's record on supporting businesses . He said applications in the latest round are being processed within 10 to 14 days . <p> " There are a very small percentage of applications that require further follow up in order to ensure that we maintain integrity in our financial system , " he said . <p> Grants offered under the program can be accessed by small businesses , co-ops and non-profits with fewer than 500 employees that have lost at least 30 per cent of their revenue due to public health orders . <h> Latest Stories <p> P.E.I. Environment Minister Steven Myers says almost half the money set aside for electric-vehicle rebates in the spring budget has been spent . The province is offering a $5,000 rebate on new or used electric vehicles , and $2,500 off plug-in hybrids . Myers said about 40 vehicles have been purchased so far . The budget allowed $500,000 for the program , but Myers said if that money runs out he will step up and ask for more . " Islanders know me , I 'm not going to be afraid to go back to treasury board and ask for more money if this is a successful program , " he said . " If results on the uptake are good we 'll make sure we 're there to answer the bell on the financial side . " This is step one in a goal to have all Islanders driving electric vehicles by 2030 , Myers said . Environment Minister Steven Myers wants to get more Islanders talking about how great electric vehicles are . ( Nicole Williams/CBC ) Including used vehicles in the program is a big part of that , he said , which should allow more lower-income Islanders to take part . " We have a big used-car market here on Prince Edward Island , " said Myers . " Allowing a used vehicle brings it down to a more affordable price range . " It is also important to remember that electric vehicles have a lower operating cost , he said . Myers acknowledged that 100 vehicles is just a small step in the nine-year plan to put an EV in every driveway , but he said he believes momentum will build . " We have to get cars on the road and have to get people using them and talking to their neighbours and saying how great they are and how range is n't an issue , " he said . With a range of 500 kilometres , he said the cars will take you anywhere you want on the Island in a day 's driving . More from CBC P.E.I. <p> A First Nations man in Fort McMurray has started Canada 's first non-profit dedicated to providing legal assistance to band members who want to hold their chief and council accountable . The Band Members Alliance and Advocacy Association of Canada ( BMAAAC ) , based in Fort McMurray , has been around for two years , but within the last six months the organization has gained significant traction . The group 's mandate is " to advocate on behalf of band members in Canada that are experiencing financial abuse by their chief and council , " according to the BMAAAC website . The non-profit offers its services for free . BMAAAC is headed up by Rob Louie , from the Ktunaxa ( Kootenay ) First Nation in British Columbia . Louie created partnerships with lawyers across the country , who have so far taken on 15 cases in federal court , which has exclusive jurisdiction over band councils in Canada . " I realized that there was a gap in the governance of Indigenous communities , " said Louie . " I noticed that when a band member was experiencing either financial abuse or some sort of internal oppression , they had nowhere to turn . " Louie said he gets about 100 messages a day from people across Canada looking for help . He screens those calls and sends select cases to a lawyer . Louie does have a law degree himself and is studying for his Master 's degree in law , but is not currently licensed to practice law . He has applied to regain his status as a lawyer in B.C. BMAAAC has received about $50,000 in donations over the last year , all of which has been used to pay lawyers , said Louie . Louie has put in over 300 hours over the last six months into the non-profit , all of it as a volunteer . The lawyers either work pro bono or at a reduced rate . Currently five lawyers work with BMAAAC , although only one is First Nations . Louie said he would like to see First Nations lawyers step up as allies . Louie said the issue of band member representation is close to his heart , because in 2012 his uncle took his First Nation to court over misappropriation of funds . He was the litigation strategist on the case . Louie said left the legal profession because of issues with substance abuse , but he has recently made it to two years of sobriety . " I do this because part of my recovery is about giving back , because I too had help , " said Louie . He said now looking to get reinstated as a lawyer so he can focus on representing others in court . Evan Duffy is one of the lawyers helping BMAAAC . He 's taken on about half of the non-profit 's cases . Duffy acted as an intervener during a judicial review of a postponed election in Fort Liard , N.W.T. He said BMAAAC fills an important rule . " There 's not a lot of resources that help band members all across Canada , " said Duffy . Marty Moore , staff lawyer with the Justice Centre for Constitutional Freedoms , is currently taking on a case for BMAAAC . Moore said people need the ability to seek redress from the court system . " Without that ability , the essential nature of our government and our democracy and even our freedom is jeopardized , " said Moore . " Words on paper , including words on the Charter , are n't worth anything without the ability to assert those rights in a court . " He said all governments need to be accountable , and BMAAAC is the only organization he knows of that is providing this kind of legal access to First Nations . " We as a legal community , we need to stand up for those that are vulnerable , " said Moore . " It 's hard to think of a more vulnerable community in Canada . " <p> Joan Vistarchi stands outside the home built by her father in Montreal 's west-end Notre-Dame-de-Gr ? ce neighbourhood . In front of her on the patio table are hand-carved hearts and boats , love letters addressed to her mother and black-and-white photographs of a man in well-cut suits . The mementos are all from her father , Salvatore Vistarchi , who spent nearly three years in two internment camps on Canadian soil . Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is to issue a formal apology on Thursday for the internment of Italian-Canadians during the Second World War . Of the 600 people interned , more than 200 were arrested in Montreal . " For far too long , the Italian-Canadian community has carried the weight of the unjust policy of internment during the Second World War , " Trudeau said in a recent statement . None of the internees are alive today to hear the apology , but Joan Vistarchi and the other descendants are listening . Ottawa moved quickly to make arrests On June 10 , 1940 , Italian dictator Benito Mussolini declared war against Britain and France , leading Canada -- as part of the British Empire -- to declare war against Italy on the same day . Within hours , Prime Minister William Lyon Mackenzie King invoked the War Measures Act , suspending the right to a fair trial . The Canadian government then labelled 31,000 Italian-Canadians " enemy aliens . " The RCMP moved swiftly , making arrests according to lists of suspected fascist sympathizers supplied by informants . Salvatore Vistarchi had just asked Jean Reddy to marry him . After he dropped off his fianc ? e at her apartment , he went back to his home to sleep . Later that night , there was a knock at the door . Joan Vistarchi , who lives with her husband in the Montreal house built by her father , says if he were still alive , he would have ' loved to hear ' his name cleared by the prime minister in an apology . ( Fenn Mayes/CBC ) " The RCMP arrested him without ever giving a reason why , " said Joan , who maintains her father was never involved with fascism . " He did have a feeling about someone who pointed his finger at him , and he was very upset about it . " Vistarchi spent the night in an overcrowded cell at the police station in Montreal 's Little Italy . He was then put on a train to Fredericton , where he was briefly detained , before eventually landing at Camp 33 , an internment camp in Petawawa , Ont. , located in the Ottawa Valley . Imprisonment in Petawawa Vistarchi was handed a blue jumpsuit with big red circles on the front and back . If he ran , the guards would n't miss the shot . By day , most internees repaired roads and bridges or cut planks . Vistarchi , who had medical training , worked in the camp 's military hospital . A box of letters and wooden boats and boxes carved by her father while he was interned in Petawawa , Ont. , are displayed at Joan Vistarchi 's Montreal home . After working during the day , interned Italian-Canadians would sing and carve wooden objects . ( Fenn Mayes/CBC ) By night , the men worked on wood carvings and sang Italian operas like Puccini 's Turandot , recounted Nicholas Di Pietro , a descendant of two internees . The prisoners ranged from labourers to lawyers . Di Pietro 's relatives owned a high-end shoe factory that in 1937 made a bejeweled pair of shoes for the Queen -- wife of King George VI and mother of the current Queen Elizabeth . The internees wrote letters home with stationery supplied by the government . Postcards stamped " PRISONER OF WAR MAIL " were restricted to seven lines , letters to 21 . In every letter Vistarchi sent his fianc ? e , he included the same lines : I do n't know why I 'm here . I 'm a good citizen . I do n't know if and when I 'll be released . What did I do wrong ? I love this country . Justice will prevail . Letters sent by Vistarchi to Reddy , his then-fianc ? e , while he was interned . ( Fenn Mayes/CBC ) Joyce Pillarella , an oral historian in Montreal whose grandfather was interned , spent more than 20 years chronicling the stories from families of the internees . In the 1930s , Italian-Canadians had to " play ball " with the Italian government , she told CBC News . Restaurant owners needed to maintain a close relationship with the Italian Consulate if they wanted to import wine or oil , for example . War veterans had to collect their pension through the consulate , she said , and informants used photographs of community members with Italian officials at Montreal banquets to prove " close contact " with the fascist regime . " You 're not going to appear to be anti-fascist because you 've got business to do , " Pillarella said . Evidence of their relationship with Italian officials put these men on the suspect list . " Anybody who is a representative of the Italian government in the 1930s is representing a government that is a fascist regime , " she said . Mussolini 's Montreal Filippo Salvatore , professor emeritus of classics and modern languages at Concordia University in Montreal , said there 's powerful symbolism in the apology being delivered in the House of Commons -- since it 's the very spot where accusations were made against the Italian community more than 80 years ago . " Canadians did not distinguish between being fascist and being Italian , " he said . In his book , Fascism and the Italians of Montreal , Salvatore traces Quebec 's initial infatuation with Mussolini , " the man sent by Divine Providence to save Italy , " during the interwar years . Those in the province who supported the dictator included the government , prominent politicians , the Roman Catholic Church and the French media . WATCH Daughter of internment camp prisoner on apology to Italian Canadians : Ottawa , including King , had a positive view of Mussolini in the early 1930s . The real enemy of Western democracy at that time was seen as communism . In Montreal , a fresco of Mussolini on horseback was commissioned in Our Lady of La Difesa , a Catholic church in Little Italy . Pro-fascist newspapers circulated . The community centre , Casa d'Italia , was built with support from the director of Italian fasci abroad . When Mussolini 's second-in-command , Italo Balbo , crossed the Atlantic in 24 " flying ships " in 1933 , nearly 50,000 people came out to Longueuil , Que. , to watch the spectacle . " Fascism was the official lingo at the time , " Salvatore said . " It was sanctioned at every level . " Mussolini 's conquest of Ethiopia in 1936 was a turning point of public opinion in Quebec , particularly in the English press . The dictator 's reputation continued to worsen after Italy 's hand in the Spanish Civil War and the signing of the Pact of Steel with Adolf Hitler in 1939 . When Italy declared war , Salvatore said , there was " hysteria " in Canada 's Parliament over fear of what 's known as a fifth column , where an organized group tries to undermine a country in favour of an outside enemy . " Canadians of Italian origin were not a threat to Canada , " he said . " No acts of terrorism were ever committed by the people that were arrested . " Vistarchi and Reddy share their first dinner together after his release . ( Submitted by Joan Vistarchi ) The return home Vistarchi spent 33 months in prison . Upon release , he was given a haversack and a train ticket . He went on to start his own construction company and become a well-known philanthropist in Montreal . Joan , her parents ' only child , described Vistarchi as a jovial man " who had a joke for everyone . " But she says he never spoke much of his imprisonment for fear of being re-interned . " Every 10th of June , he 'd become a dead person , " she said . " The apology is really important . It 's the opposite of what happened in 1940 , because then they did n't have a voice . This is moral justice . " She said she is n't interested in financial compensation from the federal government . " The biggest compensation is this apology , " she said . " The apology brings closure to all the families by saying these men were not guilty of anything . " My father 's ears would have loved to hear this . " <p> HONG KONG ( AP ) -- Hong Kong authorities for the second year have banned the June 4 candlelight vigil to commemorate the bloody crackdown on pro-democracy protests in Beijing 's Tiananmen Square , organizers said Thursday . The Hong Kong Alliance in Support of Patriotic Democratic Movements of China , which organizes the candlelight vigil annually , said in a statement that the police had objected to the event in light of social distancing restrictions , which prohibit large gatherings . For years , Hong Kong and Macao were the only cities in China where people were allowed to mark the 1989 anniversary of Beijing 's crushing of the Chinese democracy movement . The ban on the vigil comes as Beijing has tightened control over the semi-autonomous Chinese city , after months of anti-government protests in 2019 . Beijing and local authorities have cracked down on dissenting voices , launching mass arrests of pro-democracy activists and imposing a sweeping national security law to penalize crimes like secession and subversion . On Thursday , the legislature passed a bill amending electoral laws that drastically reduces the public 's ability to vote , while increasing the number of pro-Beijing lawmakers making decisions for the city . Last year , the June 4 vigil was banned for the first time , with police citing public health risks from the coronavirus pandemic . Still , thousands turned up at Victoria Park -- where the vigil is held each year -- singing songs and lighting candles . No arrests were made at the time . More than 20 people , including activist Joshua Wong , media tycoon Jimmy Lai and Lee Cheuk-yan , a leader of the alliance , were arrested later and charged for taking part in an unauthorized assembly . Wong and three district councilors were sentenced on May 6 to between four and 10 months in jail after pleading guilty . Organizers this year have urged people to light a candle no matter where they are on June 4 . Zen Soo , The Associated Press <p> TAIPEI ( Reuters ) -Germany 's BioNTech asked Taiwan to remove the word " country " from their planned joint announcement on a COVID-19 vaccine sale to the island , its health minister said , as he outlined the collapse of the deal which Taipei blames on China . Taiwan and China are engaged in an escalating war of words after Beijing separately offered shots to the Chinese-claimed island via Shanghai Fosun Pharmaceutical Group Co Ltd , which has a contract to sell them in Greater China . Taiwan however has preferred to deal with BioNTech direct . <p> Ozon wants to achieve online transaction volumes of around $34 billion in five years and a third of Russia 's rapidly expanding e-commerce market , its chief operating officer told Reuters . One of Russia 's largest e-commerce players , Ozon last week reported a sixth consecutive quarter of triple-digit gross merchandise volume ( GMV ) growth and upped its GMV growth target for 2021 to 100% from 90% . A $1 billion Nasdaq debut last year has allowed Ozon to become slightly more aggressive in some segments , such as IT development and logistics infrastructure , where it sees no risk of over-investment , its COO Daniil Fedorov said . <p> While Americans are ready to take off their COVID-19 masks , Canada is nowhere near such a reality . " II think it 's too premature to adopt the no masking policy , " says Dr. Joseph Kim , an infection prevention and control expert . <p> President Joe Biden is warning Republicans not to " get in the way " of his infrastructure plans . In Cleveland Thursday , Biden held up a card with the names of GOP lawmakers who rejected his COVID aid bill but later promoted its help back home . ( May 27 ) <p> A Palestinian refugee who moved to Canada to escape what he felt was a racist environment in the U.S. says he 's shaken after a road rage altercation on Wednesday that led police to charge a man and investigate whether the altercation was hate-motivated . The man who was charged , meanwhile , admits he lost his temper but says he is n't racist -- he hates everyone " equally . " The incident , captured on video , took place on Wednesday around 5:20 p.m. when a man was driving his car on Bow Trail , near 24th Street S.W. WATCH Watch the road rage incident that prompted charges , above ( note : profanities have been bleeped out by the CBC ) A man driving a Ford F-150 pickup truck began tailgating the car and honking , the Calgary Police Service said in a statement on Thursday . The man in the car , Tamer Abu Hassira , applied his brakes and the driver of the truck got in front of him and came to a stop on the roadway , police said . The man in the truck got out yelling and banged his fist against the car before returning to his vehicle and reversing so that he was behind the man in the car . He then drove in front of the car again , stopped , got out and began yelling " profanity , vague threats and derogatory comments , " while banging on the car window , police said in a news release on Thursday . " The man then called the car driver a ' terrorist ' and stated he had a picture of ' Allah and Muhammad ' in his truck , before ripping the windshield wiper off the car , " police said . " The suspect returned to his vehicle and drove away . " Hassira says he moved to Calgary to escape racism in Texas Hassira told CBC News he moved to Canada to escape racism he experienced in the United States after moving to Houston in 2017 as a Palestinian refugee from the Gaza Strip . He said he 's extremely shaken up by the road rage incident . Tamer Abu Hassira , who moved to North America as a Palestinian refugee from the Gaza Strip , said the road rage incident has left him shaken and worried about safety for himself and his children . ( Submitted by Tamer Abu Hassira ) " It 's very , very sad for me , " he said . Hassira said he 's worried about his children and for his own safety . " I can not leave my home , because I do n't know what happened for me if I go outside my home , " he said . Police say they arrived on scene after the incident on Wednesday , reviewed the video evidence captured by the victim and were quickly able to identify the owner of the truck , who was arrested at his home . Police have charged Alex John Hudson , 27 , of Calgary , with mischief to a motor vehicle . Accused says he was initially upset at slow driving Hudson told CBC News on Thursday evening that , from his perspective , the incident was a simple matter of a traffic-based conflict and his comments , while intended to be hurtful , were not specifically directed at Hassira because he is Palestinian . " I learned today what a Palestinian even is , " he said . Hudson said he was initially upset because Hassira was driving below the 70 km/h speed limit and obstructing other drivers . " He was doing 46 km/h . So , when I caught up to him , I gave him two little quick honks -- beep , beep -- and he gives me the finger and hits the brakes . I just miss him . I 'm like , feet away from him in my big truck . He was in a little , tiny car . " Hudson said he believed from the " brake-check " manoeuvre and the existing damage he saw on the car 's rear bumper that the other driver may have been trying to run an insurance scam , attempting to deliberately be rear-ended . He admits he lost his temper and was " just going for the throat " with the comments he made , which were directed at what he believed to be Hassira 's religion , but says he does n't have a particular issue with Muslims . " I just would have snapped on anyone ; it does n't matter what race you are , " he said . " It 's just become some big racial thing now . Like , ... my girlfriend 's Filipino , my daughter 's half-Black . It 's got nothing to do with race . I hate everyone equally . People are toxic . I hate everyone equally . I do n't care what colour you are . " " I should n't have got so angry , " he added . Police probe whether ' hate-motivated bias contributed ' Police say while it appears the altercation began as a road rage incident , they are investigating whether " hate-motivated bias contributed to the ongoing interaction . " " Incidents where a person is targeted for their race or culture have a significant impact on not only the victim , but the broader community , as it can impact their sense of safety , " Senior Const . Craig Collins , hate crimes co-ordinator with the Calgary Police Service , said in a news release . " We take these concerns very seriously and work with our various cultural and racialized communities to offer support while the investigative process is underway . " If a suspect is found guilty , a judge can then determine whether hate was a motivating factor , which can add to a person 's sentence . <p> A lot is set to change in the coming weeks and months for residents in Ontario and Quebec as businesses reopen and activities that have been banned temporarily are allowed once again . Both provinces have released plans to gradually loosen COVID-19 restrictions and reopen their economies . Quebec 's plan takes a regional approach , where areas with lower case counts and hospitalizations will be able to reopen earlier than others . Ontario 's provincewide three-step plan will see restrictions eased gradually through June , July and August based on vaccination rates and key public health and health-care indicators . The government has provided the week of June 13 as a tentative date for the start of this reopening , which is based on current indicators . So how do plans in the neighbouring provinces compare ? Below is a comparison of dates by which certain activities could be allowed to resume in each province . Note : Dates are approximate and are the earliest possible days by which activities could be allowed to resume . Delays are possible based on high case counts or lower than expected vaccination rates . Only certain activities are listed . Check individual government plans for detailed restrictions . In Quebec , the rules may be different for people living in orange and red zones . <p> The government of Canada is launching a new program today that offers Canadians grants of up to $5,000 to pay for energy-saving home upgrades . Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and Natural Resources Minister Seamus O'Regan rolled out the Canada Greener Homes Grants program today -- worth about $2.6 billion over seven years -- to help homeowners upgrade heaters , install solar panels and replace windows and doors . " As a country , every effort counts to keep our air clean and our environment healthy , " Trudeau said Thursday . " We know that these retrofits can sometimes be out of reach , so our government is now making them more affordable for Canadians . " Homeowners will be able to receive grants of up to $5,000 to make energy efficient retrofits to their primary residences , and up to $600 to help with the cost of home energy evaluations . Trudeau said the grants will help 700,000 homeowners lower their bills and keep their houses warmer in the winter . People across the country are able to apply online starting today ( the government says the landing page for applications was down earlier today due to high demand ) . An application starts with an energy evaluation by a certified adviser . That adviser visits an applicant 's home and determines which energy-saving measures would qualify for reimbursement . If the homeowner chooses to proceed , a licensed contractor would then be hired to conduct the retrofits . After an inspection of the completed work , the homeowner would be reimbursed . It 's estimated that private homes and buildings are among the largest sources of carbon emissions in Canada , contributing about 18 per cent of the country 's emissions . Last week , the federal government announced it 's providing up to $10 million to recruit , train and mentor 2,000 people to conduct energy audits . WATCH Prime minister unveils $2.6 billion home retrofit program <p> As COVID-19 vaccine supplies ramp up across the country , most provinces and territories have released details of who can expect to receive a shot in the coming weeks . Health Canada says up to 37 million doses of vaccine could be shipped in May and June , but only 20.3 million doses of Pfizer-BioNTech and 1.04 million doses of Moderna are confirmed . The remaining 11.3 million doses of Moderna , and another four million doses of Oxford-AstraZeneca from various sources are still tentative . Procurement Minister Anita Anand says Moderna has assured her it will deliver millions of doses of its COVID-19 vaccine next month but still has n't confirmed the exact amount or timing of deliveries . Anand says she has been on the phone to Moderna repeatedly , to push for an actual delivery schedule for June and July . Moderna was originally supposed to ship 12.3 million doses between April and June , with the figure later revised to between 10 million and 12 million doses . However the company has only shipped 3.7 million since April 1 and has no confirmed deliveries in place now . Provinces initially suspended giving AstraZeneca shots to people under the age of 55 based on an advisory committee 's advice , but their recommendation changed on April 23 to reflect that the shot is safe for anyone aged 30 and older . More than 655,000 doses of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine from the global vaccine sharing alliance known as COVAX , were scheduled to arrive and be distributed to provinces this week , but most provinces said they would put them on ice in reserve for second doses . More than 20 million people across Canada have now had at least one dose of a vaccine . Ottawa confirmed Wednesday that 20.05 million people have been vaccinated , or about 63 per cent of eligible Canadians over the age of 12 , and almost 53 per cent of everyone , including children under the age of 12 who wo n't become eligible to be vaccinated for several more months . Prime Minister Justin Trudeau says by the summer , Canada will have enough vaccines so that every eligible resident will have gotten their first dose , and by September , it will have enough doses for everyone to be fully vaccinated . The National Advisory Committee on Immunization says it believes it is safe and effective to offer the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine to adolescents . Health Canada authorized Pfizer for kids between 12 and 15 years old on May 5 , after the company completed a clinical trial which found it was safe and 100 per cent effective at preventing kids in that age group from getting COVID-19 . Here 's a list of the inoculation plans throughout Canada : Newfoundland and Labrador All people in the province aged 12 and older are now able to book an appointment for a first dose of COVID-19 vaccine . So far 1.97 per cent ( 10,321 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . Health Minister John Haggie says the province has 1,480 doses of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine set to expire by the end of the month . He says if the province can not use them in time , they 'll be sent off to join the federal vaccine supply chain . --- Nova Scotia Appointments for an initial COVID-19 vaccine shot were opened across the province Tuesday to people 20 years of age and older , and officials said vaccine appointments would likely be opened to those 12 and up by the end of the week . Nova Scotia 's COVID-19 vaccination rollout is ahead of schedule and should see second doses being administered two to four weeks earlier than originally planned , officials said Tuesday . Under the province 's accelerated plan , someone who received their first dose of vaccine on March 22 and is due for a second dose on July 5 will now be able to reschedule their second appointment for as early as the week of June 20 . The province has stopped the use of AstraZeneca 's vaccine as a first dose . The Health Department says the decision was based on " an abundance of caution ' ' due to an observed increase in the rare blood-clotting condition linked to this vaccine . The department also says it will reschedule anyone who was to receive AstraZeneca to instead be inoculated with Pfizer-BioNTech or Moderna " in a timely manner . " As of Tuesday , 521,053 doses of COVID-19 vaccine have been administered , with 42,205 people having received their required second dose . --- Prince Edward Island In Prince Edward Island , residents as young as 16 can book a COVID-19 vaccine . People 16 years and older who have certain underlying medical conditions , pregnant woman and eligible members of their household can also get a vaccine . So far 7.66 per cent ( 12,156 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated. --- New Brunswick Residents in New Brunswick aged 12 to 17 are now eligible to book an appointment for a Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine . Officials also say residents 55 and older who received an Astra-Zenaca vaccine for the first dose at least eight weeks ago can now get a second dose of the vaccine with informed consent . --- Quebec In Quebec , all residents 12 and older are able to book a COVID-19 vaccination appointment . The province 's health minister says Quebecers 12 to 17 years old will be fully vaccinated by the time they return to school in September . Quebec says it administered 58,764 doses of vaccine Tuesday , for a total of more than 5.1 million . About 56.2 per cent of people in the province have received at least one dose . --- Ontario All adults in Ontario can now book COVID-19 vaccine appointments . People turning 18 in 2021 can book Pfizer-BioNTech shots . Youth aged 12 and older can also book appointments across Ontario . They can book through the provincial online portal , call centre and through pharmacies offering the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine , the only shot authorized by Health Canada for use in youth aged 12 and older . The age group is becoming eligible a week ahead of schedule , though some regions have already started vaccinating youth at pop-ups and larger clinics . The province aims to see all eligible Ontarians fully vaccinated by the end of September . The province is distributing shots to regions on a per-capita basis , after two weeks of sending half of its vaccine supply to hot spots for COVID-19 infections . Ontario is also resuming use of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine but only as a second dose . Dr. David Williams , the province 's chief medical officer of health , says those who received the first dose of AstraZeneca between March 10 and March 19 during a pilot project at pharmacies and some doctor 's offices in several Ontario communities will be first in line to receive their second dose . Starting next week , those people could opt to receive the second dose at a 10-week interval - the recommended interval is 12 weeks - in order to use up the 45,000 doses currently in refrigerators in pharmacies and family doctors ' offices that will expire in 10 days . Another 10,000 doses are set to expire next month . --- Manitoba Manitoba is using the Pfizer vaccine for everyone aged 12 and up , and the Moderna vaccines for people aged 18 and up These are available through a few channels including so-called supersites in larger communities . The province is also allowing anyone 40 and over to get an Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine through pharmacies and medical clinics , subject to availability . People 30-39 can get a shot if they have certain underlying health conditions such as chronic liver failure or severe obesity . The province has opened up second-dose appointments to all Indigenous people aged 12 and up , to people with certain medical conditions such as severe heart failure and Down syndrome , and anyone who received their first dose on or before March 29. --- Saskatchewan Saskatchewan says it reached the Step 2 threshold on the province 's Re-Opening Roadmap today , with over 70 per cent of residents age 30 and older having received their first dose of COVID-19 vaccine . That means Step 2 's relaxation of restrictions will begin June 20 , which includes easing capacity thresholds on retail , personal care services , restaurants and bars , although they must still maintain physical distancing among occupants or have barriers in place . Step 2 rules also raise caps on private indoor gatherings to 15 , while capacity limits jump to 150 for both public indoor gatherings and all outdoor assemblies , whether public or private . Premier Scott Moe says once 70 per cent of the entire adult population is vaccinated , Saskatchewan can move to Step Three and remove almost all of the remaining public health orders . Saskatchewan residents aged 12 and older are now eligible to book their first COVID-19 vaccine appointment . A school immunization program for those aged 12-18 will be introduced in June , but eligible residents of that age can also be immunized at clinics offering the Pfizer vaccine . Anyone 85 and older or anyone who received their first vaccine dose before February 15 can now book their second dose . Anyone diagnosed with cancer and solid organ transplant recipients will be receiving a letter of eligibility in the mail which will allow them priority access to a second dose . There are drive-thru and walk-in vaccination clinics in communities across the province . The province says as of Tuesday , 63 per cent of all Saskatchewan adults have now received their first dose of COVID-19 vaccine . Thirty-seven per cent of those in the 80-plus age group are now fully vaccinated. --- Alberta Every Albertan aged 12 and older is now eligible for a vaccine . As of May 18 , more than half of all Albertans over the age of 12 had received at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine . Dr. Deena Hinshaw , the province 's chief medical officer of health has said people who are immunocompromised can book a second dose three of four weeks after their first shot . All other Albertans are eligible to get their second dose three to four months after the first . For the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine , the province lowered the minimum age to 30 . They are , however , reserving the remaining supply for second doses when people are eligible . More than 250 pharmacies are offering immunizations . Ten physicians ' clinics across the province are also providing shots as part of a pilot project . About 15,000 workers at 136 meat-packing plants across the province can also get shots at on-site clinics , pharmacies and clinics. --- British Columbia Families can get vaccinated together in British Columbia as the government allows youth between the ages of 12 and 17 to get their COVID-19 shot . The shots will be administered at community clinics instead of in schools based on feedback from families , with 310,000 children in B.C. eligible to get the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine , which has been approved for that age group . The government said the goal is to have those children vaccinated by the end of the school year . People who 've had a first dose of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine will have the option of choosing their second shot within a four-month interval in B.C. Provincial health officer Dr. Bonnie Henry says 20,000 doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine are set to expire at the end of June and were reserved for people who may not be able to get an mRNA vaccine , such as the one made by Pfizer-BioNTech . And she says more information is expected by the first week of June from a study in the United Kingdom on the effectiveness of switching vaccines for the second dose . Henry says an increase in the supply of vaccines in the coming weeks means everyone can expect to have their second dose moved up . As of Tuesday , almost three million doses of vaccine have been administered to adults over 18 , with 152,010 of those second doses . --- Nunavut Chief public health officer Dr. Michael Patterson says Nunavut has placed an order for doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine with the federal government to vaccinate people ages 12 to 17 in the territory . The Moderna vaccine is currently the only one available in Nunavut . Nunavut has opened vaccinations to anyone 18 and older . It is also offering shots to rotational workers coming from Southern Canada . --- Northwest Territories The Northwest Territories is now offering vaccinations against COVID-19 to young people between 12 and 17 . The territory , which has only been using the Moderna vaccine , recently exchanged some of that for doses of the Pfizer product , which Health Canada has now approved for anyone as young as 12. --- Yukon The territory started vaccinating children aged 12 to 17 on May 31 . The government says clinics in most communities will be held in schools , while those in Whitehorse can get their shot at the Coast High Country Inn Convention Centre . The children will be getting the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine . The territory says because of limited supply and stricter handling requirements , the vaccine will only be available for a short time . It says second doses for those 12 to 17 will start on June 23 and medical travel will be supported for youth who are n't able to make the clinic date in their community . The government says more than 75 per cent of all eligible adults have now received at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine . That amounts to 26,242 adults who have received their first dose , while the territory says 23,236 have received their second dose . --- This report by The Canadian Press was first published May 27 , 2021 . The Canadian Press <p> The newest coronavirus variant to appear in Newfoundland and Labrador has depressing consequences for business owners in Newfoundland 's central region , who now face not only lockdown measures but pandemic fatigue from customers . Deborah Bourden , co-owner of the Anchor Inn in Twillingate , fielded a barrage of cancellations on the brink of the long weekend , as the province 's chief medical officer moved the nearby Lewisporte region to Alert Level 4 on Friday . " It was n't the weekend we had hoped for , " Bourden said . Many guests who did arrive , she added , checked out early , eyeing the rising caseload . As of Wednesday , 48 people have fallen ill in a cluster that picked up steam near Lewisporte last week . Public health officials confirmed the outbreak is fuelled by variant B1617 , the more-transmissible strain responsible for wreaking havoc in India . Given the kick to their bottom line , the hotel decided to " hit reset , " she said , and shut down entirely until early June . It 's not the first time COVID-19 took a bit out of Bourden 's business . Last year , after a three-month lockdown and dismal tourism season , the Anchor Inn generated just 15 per cent the revenue it had in 2019 . Deborah Bourden co-owns several businesses in Twillingate , including the Anchor Inn . ( CBC ) Bourden is n't alone in feeling the pinch . Nicole Keats , who owns the Newfoundland Tea Company in Gander , says her weary customers are n't as eager to order takeout this time around . She suspects that 15 months into the pandemic , people have less disposable income and patience for fine dining on their living room couch . After all , it 's barbecue season , she points out . " I 'm just tired . We 're all tired , " said a frustrated Keats . She 's lost track of how many times the virus , and resulting public health orders , has shut down her small restaurant . " Every pivot is like reimagining and redoing your business every single time . It 's exhausting .... At some point we 're going to have to look at , at what point is it worth being open ? " Rising vaccination , but no plan to lift travel ban Keats worries about the " constant instability " hanging over her summer season . At any second , she explains , the investment of time and money it takes to restart after a lockdown might be simply wiped away by yet another outbreak . She points to vaccines as the sole glimmer of hope . Newfoundland and Labrador could see 75 per cent of the eligible population vaccinated with at least one dose in the coming weeks , Health Minister John Haggie said Wednesday . Reaching that number would help businesses like Keats 's reach sustainability , she said . " Everyone needs to get vaccinated , " she said . " We need one more push , hopefully , and we can try to maybe get back to normal . " Nicole Keats has struggled to keep her Gander restaurant afloat amid shifting public health rules and COVID-19 caseloads . ( CBC ) There 's no word yet on when the region in central Newfoundland will return to Alert Level 2 , but widespread testing in Lewisporte this week has n't signalled rampant community spread , according to Haggie . Premier Andrew Furey on Wednesday expressed optimism that the recent restrictions could contain the outbreak quickly . Bourden 's own approach mirrors Furey 's outlook . She tries to view her operating challenges as more of a journey than a struggle , staying chipper about the summer ahead . But she , too , ca n't help but look ahead to when tourists finally return , despite the resounding lack of promises or plans from the provincial government on how it might allow recreational entry to Newfoundland and Labrador once more . " People will travel again . I think there 's a pent-up demand , " she said . " The industry will come back . " Read more from CBC Newfoundland and Labrador <p> The Supreme Court of Canada is refusing to consider the case of a Nova Scotia man who had a sexual assault charge against him dropped because it took too long to come to trial . Jordan Michael Ellis , 34 , was charged on May 30 , 2017 . A woman alleged he raped her when he took her to a remote country road in Annapolis County . His case did not come near a conclusion until August 2019 , more than two years after he was first accused . The trial judge , Alan Tufts of the Nova Scotia provincial court , agreed with a defence motion that Ellis 's constitutional rights had been violated by unreasonable delay . The Crown appealed the decision to the Nova Scotia Court of Appeal , arguing Tufts should have attributed more of the delay to the defence . But in a ruling last December , the province 's top court refused to reinstate the charge . The Crown then applied to the Supreme Court of Canada in a last-ditch bid to have the trial go ahead again . But in a decision released Thursday morning , the court refused to hear the matter . As is usual in such leave applications , the Supreme Court offered no explanation for its decision . The woman testified that Ellis sexually assaulted her on Spurr Road in Annapolis County . ( Dave Laughlin/CBC ) When Tufts originally stayed the charge , he applied the standard set by the Supreme Court of Canada in its 2016 Jordan decision , which set a time limit of 18 months to resolve matters in provincial courts . The problem discovered at the Ellis trial was that there were pieces missing from the rape kit , the package of documents , photographs and forensic evidence collected by sexual assault nurse examiners ( SANE ) who examine victims of sexual assault . In this case , the 35-year-old complainant testified the SANE team had photographed her as part of their examination . However , the Crown could not locate the photographs , which eventually turned up in an RCMP detachment office . Ellis 's lawyer complained that he could not properly respond to the Crown 's case without seeing those photographs . Just days after the Court of Appeal ruling on Ellis , another Nova Scotia man , Regan Brant Tolbert , had the sexual assault charge against him stayed because it had taken too long . MORE TOP STORIES <p> Three of Canada 's biggest banks saw their profits either more than double or more than quadruple last quarter , a sign that the worst of the economic toll of the pandemic may be in the rear-view mirror as the country 's biggest lenders are back to raking in the cash . Canada 's biggest bank , The Royal Bank of Canada , posted a profit of $4 billion for the three-month period up until the end of April . That 's up from $1.5 billion in profits for the same time last year , when the COVID-19 pandemic was just beginning . The second-biggest bank , TD Bank , was only slightly behind with a profit of $3.7 billion for the quarter , up 144 per cent from last year . CIBC followed suit with an even bigger jump in percentage terms , posting a quarterly profit of $1.6 billion -- more than four times what it made in the same time last year . WATCH Big banks under fire for raising fees in a pandemic : Bank of Montreal was the first major bank to report quarterly earnings on Wednesday , announcing that its profits almost doubled to just over $1.3 billion . The last of the big banks , Scotiabank , will report on Monday , and analysts are expecting a similarly large jump . The banks are somewhat of a canary in Canada 's economic coal mine in that if the consumers and businesses they lend money to are having problems paying their bills , those woes will show up on the banks ' books . But this week 's profit bonanza suggests that in the aggregate at least , consumers and businesses are not exactly struggling . Part of the massive spike in profits can be attributed to the banks being able to draw down some of the money they set aside to cover loans they worried might go bad . Known as loan-loss provisions , the banks squirreled away billions of dollars worth of cash on their balance sheets in case they had to write off loans that they feared would default because of the pandemic . But for the most part , that has n't happened . Official data shows that in the year up to March 31 , 2021 , just over 2,500 Canadian companies went insolvent . That 's down 30 per cent from just over 3,500 that did so the year prior , when there was n't a pandemic . Consumer insolvencies follow a similar trajectory , down by 37 per cent compared to before the pandemic . That suggests that by and large Canadians are managing to stay on top of their debt , which is allowing the banks to move some of that cash they had set aside from being a liability over to the asset side of the ledger . Royal Bank had loan-loss provisions of $2.1 billion this time last year . They 're now down to just $260 million . TD , meanwhile , had $3.2 billion worth of provisions a year ago . This quarter , that figure actually became a net positive , with a recovery of $377 million worth of such loans . At CIBC , loan-loss provisions plunged by 98 per cent , from $1.4 billion last year to just $32 million now . <p> " Not with a bang but a whimper . " Yes , it 's that line again from a poem by T.S . Eliot . But infectious disease expert Dr. Allison McGeer says the end of the COVID-19 pandemic could come with both a bang and a whimper . The " bang " part , she says , could last into this coming winter , with hospitals remaining busy and new issues brought about by a return to more global travel . " Then , the virus will get to the whimpering stage by next summer . " Dr. Zain Chagla has his own way of describing things . The pandemic 's end , he says , is not like a " light switch . " " People need to be comfortable with the fact that COVID-19 is going to be around for the foreseeable future , and possibly the long-term future . " McGeer and Chagla sat on a panel on Tuesday hosted by the Ontario Medical Association . The panel attempted to answer questions that have been front-of-mind for millions of people for more than a year now . Among them : what will the end of the pandemic look like ? How will people behave ? Will the virus mutate , and how will that affect our return to normalcy ? Hospital resources as a bellwether In Ontario , the provincial government has laid out a three-stage path to reopening linked to the percentage of adults who have been vaccinated . But Chagla has long warned that we ca n't vaccinate COVID-19 out of existence . He sees the end of the pandemic like this : an increasing number of fully vaccinated citizens , with their lower risk of complications and transmission , will " turn this into an outpatient disease . " In other words , COVID-19 will circulate , but wo n't require hospitalization or other health resources . " The end of the pandemic in Canada ... is going to be where health-care utilization is going to come down . " He uses the words " in Canada " for a reason . " This ca n't end until everyone has equitable access to vaccines , " he said . Chagla points out that if the novel coronavirus continues to rampage in other parts of the world , it increases the chance that new and dangerous variants could arrive in Canada . WATCH World Health Organization comments on need for worldwide COVID-19 vaccine equity : The latest influenza ? Looking to the months and years ahead , McGeer sees two possible paths : either the virus that causes COVID-19 will stop mutating and settle , or it will continually evolve . She says if it keeps mutating , " then we may end up with a situation that 's like influenza is now , which is that it 's no longer nearly a serious disease , but it 's not a trivial disease . And we 're going to need ongoing vaccination programs . " McGeer says she 's " hoping for the first " scenario , in which the pathogen that causes COVID-19 stops evolving , but that " most epidemiologists and virologists are expecting the second . " Given that , McGeer says , it 's unlikely that COVID-19 will ever be truly eradicated . Eradicating a disease is difficult and expensive , she says . She adds that once enough people are immune , it likely " wo n't be worth the cost " to fully get rid of it . Behaviour will change slowly , expert says For months , questions and concerns have also swirled about how people will actually feel when restrictions begin to lift . To tackle that question , Chagla and McGeer were joined by Dr. Thomas Unger , psychiatrist-in-chief at St. Michael 's Hospital in Toronto . He breaks down three post-pandemic reactions , which he says are in keeping with " most normal people 's tolerance for risk and personality styles . " Up to a third of people , says Unger , will immediately plunge back into activities they enjoyed pre-pandemic and " have a good time immediately . " The larger group , as many as half of Canadians , will proceed with more caution , " dipping their toe in the shallow end " as they get comfortable . Patrons returned to the Art Gallery of Ontario in July of 2020 . Dr. Thomas Unger says most Canadians will move slowly and cautiously through the reopening process , rather than plunging head first . ( Evan Mitsui/CBC ) And a final group will need more support and are likely to remain " overly fearful and avoidant " long after most people have started doing things like visiting restaurants or taking the subway again . He also says some of our new behaviours , many born out of new knowledge around how viruses transfer , may linger -- and that 's nothing to worry about . " That 's just the way humans adapt . " <p> Stephen Harper once signed a photograph for Mike Duffy with a caption telling the senator for Prince Edward Island that he was one of his " best , hardest-working appointments ever . " Harper himself probably would dispute that description now . But it 's possible that Duffy , who retired from the Senate this week , will go down as Harper 's most consequential appointment -- one that ultimately might be seen as having helped to change the Senate forever . The Harper government 's official attempts at Senate reform -- a half-hearted push to launch Senate elections -- did n't get far . And when the Supreme Court ruled that formalizing an elected Senate would require negotiating a constitutional amendment with the provinces , Harper shrugged and moved on . By then , Harper already had named 59 individuals to the Senate . But in the spring of 2015 , Harper declared he would not appoint anyone else -- a vow that no doubt had something to do with the fact that so many of his previous appointees were causing so much trouble . Prime Minister Stephen Harper walks away following a television interview with Mike Duffy in Ottawa Feb. 20 , 2007 . ( ) Among Harper 's Senate appointees , Duffy might not be the one most deserving of notoriety . Don Meredith resigned in 2017 following allegations of sexual misconduct . Lynn Beyak resigned earlier this year after being suspended twice because of racist letters posted to her Senate website . Harper also appointed a number of party apparatchiks to the Red Chamber -- perhaps hoping that some egregiously partisan appointments would build support for reforming the Senate . But what roiled Parliament Hill the most from 2013 to 2015 was the Senate expenses scandal . And at the centre of that was the " Old Duff , " the avuncular former television journalist who had become familiar to millions of Canadians over decades of covering Parliament Hill . The cascading scandal ultimately would ensnare more than two dozen senators , but it was Duffy 's decision to claim a housing allowance for his long-time residence near Ottawa that helped to get things started . Nigel Wright , former chief of staff to then-prime minister Stephen Harper . ( Justin Tang/Canadian Press ) Duffy was foremost among the senators who became the public faces of the scandal . But then he became one of the main characters in an explosive political affair when it was revealed that Harper 's chief of staff , Nigel Wright , had personally transferred $90,000 to the senator so that Duffy could repay the Senate for his questionable expenses . ( It also later emerged that Harper 's office had pushed to rewrite a Senate committee 's report on Duffy 's expenses . ) In a sensational twist , the consummate showman and talented storyteller finally turned on his patrons , rising in the Senate to allege that a " monstrous political scheme " had been perpetrated . Rarely , if ever , has the Senate provided a better show . After being appointed to the Senate in 2009 -- in the middle of the " coalition crisis " -- Duffy had been a lucrative asset for the Conservative fundraising machine , travelling from riding to riding to spin yarns and wave the party flag for paying audiences . The ' Duffy affair ' and its fallout But as a symbol of patronage , scandal and coverup , the " Duffy affair " became one of the Harper government 's greatest liabilities -- particularly when Duffy 's trial on multiple charges of fraud and breach of trust coincided with the 2015 election campaign . Harper 's Conservatives lost that election . Six months later , a judge issued a ruling that acquitted Duffy on all counts and excoriated the plotting by Harper 's staff . Once exonerated , Duffy turned to the courts seeking reimbursement and damages from the Senate . But his lawsuit was dismissed because the Senate 's proceedings are protected by parliamentary privilege -- a fact that Duffy lamented in his final speech to the chamber . " The Senate is unelected and unaccountable to anyone other than itself , " he said last month . Maybe so . But the Senate 's nightmare of scandal and drama set the stage for a period of unprecedented change . The Independents arrive Harper 's failure to advance Senate reform and the expenses crisis provided the impetus for Justin Trudeau to eject senators from the Liberal parliamentary caucus and propose a non-partisan appointment process . The vacancies that Harper left behind then gave the Liberal government a chance to quickly stock the upper chamber with new Independent senators -- just 20 seats in the Senate are still filled by " partisan " senators . And that , in turn , has led to a Senate that is eager to take an active role in reviewing legislation while still ultimately deferring to the House ( so far , at least ) . If you pine for an elected Senate -- or for no Senate at all -- these changes wo n't suffice . But you would be hard-pressed to argue that this new version of the Senate is n't at least harder to hold in complete contempt . If Trudeau fills all existing and immediately upcoming vacancies -- two more spots are set to open up in July -- there could be at least 87 Independent senators in the upper chamber by this fall . That 's probably enough to ensure some kind of lasting mark on the place , regardless of what happens in the next election . Legislation currently before the Senate would also amend the Parliament of Canada Act to better accommodate the new Independents . Easier to do than to undo It remains to be seen what Erin O'Toole or some other future Conservative prime minister would do with Senate appointments . In the Conservative leadership campaign , O'Toole said he would " encourage " provinces to hold their own Senate elections . But in the absence of a sudden burst of enthusiasm from provincial governments , O'Toole would end up having to fill some of the Senate 's seats himself . Maybe he would dismiss Trudeau 's independents and attempt to bolster the ranks of Conservative partisans in the Senate . But there has to be some chance that the next Conservative prime minister wo n't want to do anything that reminds people of the messes Harper left behind . Maybe that means coming up with a slightly different process for appointing Independents . At the very least , it might mean not inviting appointees to raise funds for the Conservative Party , and not dabbling in the affairs of the Senate . It might ultimately be very hard to be seen as moving backwards from the changes that have been made over the last few years . Mike Duffy ca n't quite take credit for those changes . He also might not have deserved quite the amount of notoriety that was heaped upon him . But the scandal created an opening for reform and the scrutiny laid bare how much needed to change . Depending on what the future brings , Duffy 's time in the Senate might be regarded as a turning point for an institution that had resisted change for nearly 150 years . As a former journalist , he might appreciate what a remarkable story that is . <p> Windsor Mayor Drew Dilkens is continuing his push for cross-border vaccine access , despite the federal government saying that travellers to the U.S. wo n't be exempt from quarantine requirements . The mayor has met with officials in the Detroit mayor 's office to discuss options on how to move forward and prevent doses from going to waste . " We 're not trying to launch a rocket to Mars here , " said Dilkens . More than half the population in Windsor-Essex has received a first dose of a COVID-19 vaccine , but Dilkens is hoping for a faster solution by offering cross border options . " Everyone is trying to find a sensible , fair and reasonable solution to this problem , and it helps solve the shared goal that we have is to get everyone vaccinated , " said Dilkens . The mayor said he has suggested a number of solutions to the federal government , including busing residents across the border to get vaccinated with a Canada Border Services Agency officer , as well as a drive-thru clinic on the Ambassador Bridge . With a drive-thru clinic , he said , there would not be a need to quarantine because patients would not leave their car and could drive back home . ' Changing rules ' The Public Health Agency of Canada ( PHAC ) made a decision that would allow quarantine exemptions for cross-border vaccines , but then quickly reversed it . On May 17 , Windsor Regional Hospital CEO David Musyj wrote to PHAC requesting that a ruling on whether getting a vaccine would be considered an " essential medical service or treatment " under the current emergency measures at the border . The agency responded by saying that COVID-19 vaccines would be considered essential , and if Canadian travellers met certain requirements , they " may " be exempt from the re-entry requirements . Two days , later the agency said the quarantine exemptions were not intended for those travelling abroad to be vaccinated against COVID-19 . " Testing and quarantine exemptions for travellers returning to Canada after receiving essential medical services in a foreign country was not intended to be used for those seeking to receive a COVID-19 vaccination , " a PHAC spokesperson said in an email . " This provision is in place to allow Canadians who are seeking life-saving medical treatment outside of Canada . " Windsor Regional Hospital also applied to Health Canada to accept 75,000 doses being offered from Michigan . The hospital still has n't received an answer . Some vaccines wasted , mayor says Dilkens said he has had numerous phone calls from pharmacists offering him vaccines before they expire . " They know that we are struggling to get folks fully vaccinated and that is the pathway forward , " he said . " So it hurts them to have throw vaccines in the garbage as much as it hurts us to have to hear that they have to do that because the uptake on the Detroit side is not as high as they hoped it would be , " said Dilkens . Dilkens said he hopes officials in Ottawa will see his requests are reasonable and fair . <p> Hope for a renewed life for the Terra Nova oilfield in Newfoundland and Labrador 's offshore industry is fading , with the CEO of Suncor Energy stating it " does not look like it 's going to get there . " Speaking to investors Wednesday , Mark Little strongly hinted that the Terra Nova FPSO will be decommissioned because attempts to bring all seven partners into agreement on a major overhaul have so far been unsuccessful . The union representing offshore workers says it 's worried about its members ' future . Dave Mercer , president of Unifor Local 2121 , which includes workers on the Hibernia and Terra Nova platforms , told CBC News people stand to lose a lot if abandonment of the oilfield is the final decision . " I 'm putting out a plea to the government . I 'm putting out a plea to the oil companies . You 've got to do whatever you can . If Terra Nova fails , White Rose extension more than likely wo n't go ahead , " said Mercer . " Everybody needs to work in this province . What do we have left if we do n't have the oil ? Not much . " If the field is decommissioned and abandoned , it will deal a big blow to the province 's oil and gas industry , with oil extraction representing nearly 20 per cent of the province 's economy in 2018 . Total direct employment in support of the Terra Nova oilfield was roughly 850 people at the end of 2019 , according to the Canada-Newfoundland and Labrador Offshore Petroleum Board , the body that regulates the offshore oil industry . The Newfoundland and Labrador Oil and Gas Industries Association , known as Noia , also issued a plea . " This project provides approximately 1,000 direct jobs and thousands more through the service and supply sector through the use of helicopters , supply vessels , environmental monitoring , catering , maintenance , health , safety and medical services , human resources and so much more , " said Noia CEO Charlene Johnson in a media release . " On behalf of the Noia members who rely upon the project , I implore all parties to find a positive resolution as soon as possible . " Noia represents approximately 460 organizations worldwide that are involved in , or benefit from , the oil and gas industry in N.L. Suncor president and CEO Mark Little is pictured here in May 2019 . ( Jeff McIntosh/The Canadian Press ) Little was quoted in Upstream Online , an independent oil and gas industry Internet news site , as saying that June 15 is the " brick wall " date at which a decision will be made . Calgary-based Suncor , the operator of the Terra Nova oilfield and a majority owner at 37.8 per cent , supports a costly overhaul of the floating , production , storage and offloading vessel , which began producing in the field in 2002 . However , without unanimous support from the other six companies for what 's called an " asset-life extension , " projected to cost $500 million , the only other option is decommissioning and abandonment . " It 's far easier to go into abandonment than it is to get ALE approved , " said Little . During a televised interview in BNN Bloomberg on Wednesday evening , Little said it does n't appear likely the partners will reach an agreement . " It 's heartbreaking to me to think this asset and the great people that operate it and maintain it that this operation could come to a premature end of life because of our inability to get alignment , " Little told Bloomberg . Dave Mercer , president of Unifor Local 2121 , says he 's pleading with government and oil companies to finish a deal for the Terra Nova . ( Mike Simms/CBC ) Energy Minister Andrew Parsons said the provincial government has done everything it can to be supportive , but the task has been difficult with seven different partners . " Trying to get everyone in the same spot has been difficult , and no doubt we 're in a time crunch now . But as of today I still remain hopeful that something can happen , " Parsons said . " A lot of it is not simply within the province 's control . " Overhaul derailed The Terra Nova is one of four mature oilfields in the offshore , but it stopped producing in late 2019 , and was scheduled to sail for a Spanish shipyard last year for a major overhaul . However , the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic last winter derailed those plans , and the Terra Nova has been moored dockside in Trinity Bay for months at the Bull Arm fabrication site . In a bid to save the project , the provincial government has offered $175 million to Suncor and its partners as an incentive to proceed with the life extension . The money would come from the $320-million offshore oil and gas industry recovery fund , which was created with federal cash in September . The provincial government has also suggested a willingness to give the oil companies a break on their royalty payments . " There 's a big difference between multinational billion-dollar oil companies and a province like Newfoundland and Labrador . I think we 've shown , and I think it will be shown , that we 've tried our best , " said Parsons . " I truly hope that this will end on a positive note . Right now we 're still in the conversation . I know there was an investor call , I know there was talk , but it 's still not over . " Energy Minister Andrew Parsons says he remains hopeful a deal can be struck . ( Mike Simms/CBC ) But Little said time is running out for the Terra Nova , since weather conditions are a big factor in any plans for improvements to subsea equipment in the field , and an overhaul on the Terra Nova . Suncor 's partners in the Terra Nova are ExxonMobil Canada Properties , Equinor Canada , Cenovus Energy subsidiary Husky Energy , Murphy Oil Company , Mosbacher Operating and Chevron Canada Resources . Little would not identify what partners were standing in the way of an agreement , but industry sources have told CBC News that ExxonMobil , the No. 2 partner at 19 per cent , is reluctant to sign onto a plan that would see the Terra Nova produce another 80 million barrels of oil over 10 years . CBC News has requested a response from ExxonMobil . Meanwhile , with so much uncertainty , Suncor has been planning for all scenarios . Last last month , Suncor issued a series of expressions of interests from companies that could do abandonment work for the 30 wells tied to the Terra Nova production system , 11 other exploration and delineation wells , and carry out decommissioning of the Terra Nova itself . But Suncor is also seeking proposals from companies for the provision of subsea remediation and vessel services to support a modernization of the subsea facilities , 350 kilometres east of St. John 's . The second scenario would also require an expensive overhaul of the aging Terra Nova FPSO . Read more from CBC Newfoundland and Labrador 
@@52772368 <h> Morning Brief : PM to name Ontario judge to Supreme Court <p> The Supreme Court of Canada on Thursday agreed to hear an appeal about the length of the sentence given to the man who shot and killed six Muslim worshipers inside a Quebec City mosque in 2017 . ( Jolson Lim/iPolitics ) <p> -- Ontario judge to be named to Supreme Court : The Star is reporting that the Liberal government is expected to name an Ontario judge to the Supreme Court of Canada before Canada Day , when Justice Rosalie Abella formally steps down , on her 75th birthday . <p> -- Kady O'Malley looks ahead to the rest of the day in politics with iPolitics AM : Prime Minister Justin Trudeau will " join Natural Resources Minister Seamus O'Regan and Newfoundland and Labrador MP Gudie Hutchings for an otherwise unspecified ' announcement , ' which will be livestreamed via Twitter and followed by a media availability with Trudeau and O'Regan . At some point during the day , he 'll also hold his weekly conference call with the premiers . " <p> -- Hadju calls for AstraZeneca sharing : Health Minster Patty Hajdu is urging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they ca n't be used before expiry . She said the Public Health Agency of Canada can help with the logistics . As the Canadian Press reports , Ontario is currently scrambling to administer roughly 45,000 AstraZeneca doses by the end of May , with another 10,000 set to expire in June . <p> -- Wilson-Raybould blocks the Bloc : The Bloc Qu ? b ? cois failed to unanimously pass a motion recognizing Quebec 's right to unilaterally change the Constitution . Independent MP Jody Wilson-Raybould -- the former Justice minister and Attorney General -- scuppered the unanimity required for a motion tabled without official notice . <p> Quebec Premier Francois Legault 's has moved to amend the country 's supreme law by affirming Quebec as a nation with French as its official language . <p> -- Coming up : The prime minister is expected to deliver a formal apology in the House of Commons today for the internment of Italian-Canadians during the Second World War . Canada interned more than 600 people of Italian descent and declared some 31,000 as " enemy aliens " after Italy declared war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : An employee at a California train yard fatally shot at least eight people yesterday , before turning the gun on himself . The victims have now been identified . The New York Times has more on what we know so far . <p> -- Biden revisits COVID origins : U.S. President Joe Biden ordered a new report on the origins of COVID-19 , as one hypothesis -- that the virus leaked from a Chinese lab -- gains traction , following reports in The Wall Street Journal and CNN on the plausibility of that theory , as well as comments from Dr. Anthony Fauci . <p> -- Victoria locks down : The Australian state of Victoria is entering a seven-day lockdown to protect against a COVID outbreak in Melbourne . Officials say 10,000 people are at risk after 26 locally-transmitted cases were identified . <p> -- Mali 's transitional president and prime minister were released after resigning from their roles . They had been detained by military officers for three days following a cabinet shuffle . Both leaders had been instated after a coup last August . <p> -- Elsewhere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ airstrikes on Gaza may constitute war crimes . Hong Kong changes electoral law , reduces direct public vote . Belarus ' Lukashenko hits back at condemnation of journalist 's arrest . U.S. and Chinese trade negotiators talk . Biden urges ceasefire in Tigray . French president Macron is in Rwanda to reset ties after a damning report on France 's complicity in the genocide . Southern African leaders hold summit on jihadist threat . The Swiss abandon talks on closer ties with the EU . Facebook names Russia its biggest source of disinformation . Amazon is buying MGM Studios . <p> In non-COVID Australia news , Tasmanian devils are back -- for the first time in millennia . Seven joeys have been born in a wildlife refuge , the first such births in 3,000 years . <h> More from iPolitics <p> By submitting content , you agree that you are personally responsible for the content that you publish and that iPolitics owns the copyright in the content that you submit . You also agree to comply with any specific rules posted on blogs or forums . Please see the Terms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 
@@52772666 <h> We miss you Monsieur Antoine <p> 4 days ago <p> Antoine was born in 1939 in the Gemmayzeh district of Beirut , a middle-class , Maronite neighborhood . His father , Eng Naguib enrolled him in the distinguished Frere Catholic School , where he became a diligent student , prominent in the sports of basketball and later became the captain of the national team and represented Lebanon in several international matches . <p> His father then sent him to Lausanne , Switzerland , where he graduated in engineering in 1965 from a well-known polytechnic institute and returned to Beirut for a short while before he decided to take the step that changed his life and then began his distinguished success story . <p> Eng Naguib Najjar " Antoine 's father " founded the Ahmadiyya Contracting Company with " Abd al-Latif al-Thuwaini " in 1954 , and it was named Ahmadiyya after the late Sheikh Ahmad al-Jaber , the ruler of Kuwait at the time and gratefully thanked his son , Sheikh Sabah , the late Amir of Kuwait , in introducing the two men to each other before becoming partners . <p> The Ahmadiyya Company 's business expanded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Antoine , in 1967 as a partner . <p> The Ahmadiyya , both during the reign of its founder and general manager " Naguib Najjar , " and subsequently , during the reign of his son , Antoine , after the death of his father in 1972 , had a good reputation and indeed , according to my knowledge , it was a distinguished company in its dealings with everyone and it was never known for any delay in paying the wages of its workers or the dues of its subcontractors . It also avoided entering into any dispute with the parties it contracted with . <p> The " Ahmadiyya " has completed large projects including the power stations in Al-Shuaiba , the Salhiya complex and the Marriott Hotel and the rest of the major projects in Salhiya , the latest of which is the " Al-Asimah " complex project . <p> It also built the Al Hamra Tower , the tallest in Kuwait which won 4 international awards . The company also completed the fourth phase of the Avenues with two hotels , in addition to the 360 Complex @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ area of 3 million square meters and other distinctive buildings and projects . <p> This is not a memorial to the late friend Antoine who left our world suddenly a few days ago , while he was in the glory of his eighties . He really deserves a lot and this will be mentioned elsewhere , but I am writing to show the credit of expatriates or residents over Kuwait , and their positive , constructive role . All these successful projects and pioneering companies run by citizens , there was and still is a large part of the credit for their success to expatriate residents . <p> They are the ones who established and successfully managed them , including the Ahmadiyya and the efforts of the Najjar family that are decisive in its development . The partners in the Ahmadiyya and elsewhere of the mixed-ownership companies would not have achieved all this success , with full respect to them , had it not been for the efforts of the external element which added much to its expertise , capabilities and dedication . <p> We also do not forget the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , literature , journalism , culture , and all other vital and humanitarian fields . <p> We will miss the joyful presence of Tony ( Antoine ) , his constant smile , our meetings with him , his generosity , his joy and the kindness of his heart , and we were greatly saddened by his sudden demise . <p> We offer his family , and in particular our dear " Laila " and his two brothers Ibrahim and Habib , and the friend " Elie Hani " our sincere , heartfelt condolences . <p> * * * <p> Note : Charities announced a fundraising campaign for victims of aggression in Gaza , and this is beautiful . It is not nice that a majority insists on deducting 12.5% of the donations for themselves . Those who called for ' No Deduction ' were intimidated . What a charity ! 
@@52772697 <p> Rogers Media uses cookies for personalization , to customize its online advertisements , and for other purposes . Learn more or change your cookie preferences . Rogers Media supports the Digital Advertising Alliance principles . By continuing to use our service , you agree to our use of cookies . <p> We use cookies ( why ? ) You can change cookie preferences . Continued site use signifies consent . <h> Canadian troops , Mounties get front row seats to Israeli-Palestinian clashes <p> by Lee Berthiaume , The Canadian Press <p> Posted May 24 , 2021 4:00 am EDT <p> Last Updated May 24 , 2021 at 4:11 am EDT <p> OTTAWA -- A handful of Canadian Armed Forces members and RCMP officers have had front row seats over the past two weeks as protests and violence have rocked parts of Israel and the Gaza Strip , leaving scores of people dead . <p> The 23 Canadian troops and three Mounties are part of a U.S.-led mission , first launched in 2005 and based in East Jerusalem , whose aim is to train Palestinian security forces in the West Bank . <p> Brig. -Gen . Jeannot Boucher , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ represent the largest contingent in the mission , which includes about 20 Americans and smaller numbers of British , Dutch and Turkish trainers . <p> " We work primarily with the Palestinian Authority security forces in trying to build capability , " Boucher said in a recent interview . " We spend most of the time trying to facilitate co-ordination between the Palestinian Authority security forces and the Israeli Defence Force . " <p> Yet the Canadians have been largely confined to their compound and forced to work remotely since clashes between protesters and Israeli police broke out in East Jerusalem a few weeks ago over the threatened eviction of Palestinian families . <p> The focal point of the protests has been Sheikh Jarrah , a predominantly Palestinian neighbourhood located only about 200 metres from where the Canadians are based . Hundreds of people gathered there most recently on Saturday to protest the planned evictions . <p> " There 's been protests that the Israeli security forces have countered with a mix of stun grenades , rubber bullets , tear gas , " said Boucher . " So obviously , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basis . " <p> Clashes over Sheikh Jarrah this month precipitated fresh fighting between Israeli forces and the Palestinian militant group Hamas , which controls Gaza and is a listed terror group in Canada , with the two sides launching airstrikes and rocket attacks against each other . <p> A ceasefire was declared on Friday after 11 days of fighting that killed more than 200 Palestinians in Gaza and 12 Israelis . <p> East Jerusalem , which is currently controlled by Israel but whose ownership is claimed by the Palestinians , was largely spared from attack . But Boucher said air-raid sirens did go off on one occasion , sending the Canadians and others scrambling for cover . <p> The training mission does not work in Gaza but rather in the West Bank , which is controlled by the Palestinian Authority under Hamas rival Fatah . Despite being largely confined to their compound , Boucher added , the Canadians have continued to work remotely . <p> While Boucher described the tensions in the area as palpable , he suggested the relative calm in the West Bank is evidence the training @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Palestinian Authority work with Israeli counterparts . <p> " If you look at Area A , which is the one controlled by the Palestinian Authority security forces , things have been relatively calm and under control , " he said . <p> " The relationship between Palestinian Authority security forces and the co-ordination with the Israeli Defense Force is happening on a 24/7 basis right now . And I would argue that 's probably the thing that is keeping violence from erupting in Area A in the West Bank . " <p> Notice : Your email may not yet have been verified . Please check your email , click the link to verify your address , and then submit your comment . If you ca n't find this email , access your profile editor to re-send the confirmation email . You must have a verified email to submit a comment . Once you have done so , check again . 
@@52774425 <p> Rogers Media uses cookies for personalization , to customize its online advertisements , and for other purposes . Learn more or change your cookie preferences . Rogers Media supports the Digital Advertising Alliance principles . By continuing to use our service , you agree to our use of cookies . <p> We use cookies ( why ? ) You can change cookie preferences . Continued site use signifies consent . <h> Egypt invites Hamas , Palestinians , Israel for further talks <p> by Samy Magdy , The Associated Press <p> Posted May 27 , 2021 9:38 am EDT <p> Last Updated May 27 , 2021 at 9:41 am EDT <p> CAIRO ( AP ) -- Egypt has invited Israel , Hamas and the Palestinian Authority for separate talks that aim at consolidating the cease-fire that ended an 11-day war between Israel and the Gaza Strip 's militant Hamas rulers , an Egyptian intelligence official said Thursday . The talks would also focus on accelerating the reconstruction process in Gaza . <p> " We are seeking a long-term truce , that would enable further discussions and possibly direct talks , " said the official , who had close knowledge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was n't allowed to brief reporters . <p> The 11-day war killed more than 250 people , mostly Palestinians , and caused heavy destruction in the impoverished coastal territory . Preliminary estimates have put the damage in the hundreds of millions of dollars . Egypt was key in mediating a deal between the two sides . <p> He said the talks could start as early as next week , and that Israel has given their initial approval , but that a final agenda is still in the works . He said that there are talks about a possible release of Palestinian prisoners in Israel in return for Israelis held by Hamas . Both issues were discussed with U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken during his visit yesterday , and with the Qatari Foreign Minister who was in Cairo on Tuesday . <p> An Israeli official said that the government is working closely with Egyptian officials ' to reinforce the cease-fire , ' but would not confirm whether Israeli officials would be attending more official talks soon . He spoke on condition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wrapped up a two-day Mideast visit Wednesday also aimed at solidifying the ceasefire and raising money for reconstruction . One of the U.S. goals is to ensure that any assistance be kept out of the hands of Hamas , which opposes Israel 's right to exist and which Israel and the U.S. consider a terrorist group . <p> The Egyptian official said one possible mechanism for ensuring that is an international committee led by Egypt or the United Nations that would oversee the spending . <p> Abdelatif al-Qanou , a spokesman for Hamas , confirmed that the group 's leader Ismail Haniyeh would visit Cairo next week and that the group is open to discussing a prisoner swap . <p> El-Qanoua said the talks in Cairo would also address ways to achieve Palestinian unity between those in Gaza and Israeli-occupied areas of the West Bank . <p> There was no immediate comment from the Palestinian Authority on its attendence . <p> The Gaza Strip has been governed by Hamas since the group seized power from the Palestinian Authority in 2007 , which resulted in a tight blockade by Israel and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governed autonomous areas of the Israeli-occupied West Bank and has limited influence in Gaza . <p> The war was triggered by weeks of clashes in Jerusalem between Israeli police and Palestinian protesters in and around the Al-Aqsa Mosque , built on a hilltop compound revered by Jews and Muslims that has seen several outbreaks of Israeli-Palestinian violence over the years . The protests were directed at Israel 's policing of the area during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan and the threatened eviction of dozens of Palestinian families by Jewish settlers . <p> Notice : Your email may not yet have been verified . Please check your email , click the link to verify your address , and then submit your comment . If you ca n't find this email , access your profile editor to re-send the confirmation email . You must have a verified email to submit a comment . Once you have done so , check again . 
@@62963739 <p> This copy is for your personal non-commercial use only . To order presentation-ready copies of Toronto Star content for distribution to colleagues , clients or customers , or inquire about permissions/licensing , please go to : **27;3681;TOOLONG <p> A Muslim woman holds up a poster during a rally against Israel 's attacks on Gaza , outside the U.S. Embassy in Jakarta , Indonesia , Friday , May 21 , 2021 . <h> Indonesia Muslims protest at US Embassy over Israel strikes <p> NS <p> By Niniek Karmini And Fadlan SyamThe Associated Press <p> Fri. , May 21 , 2021timer1 min. read <p> JAKARTA , Indonesia ( AP ) -- More than a thousand Muslims rallied outside the U.S. Embassy in Indonesia 's capital on Friday to denounce American support for Israel and demand an end to Israeli airstrikes in the Gaza Strip . <p> The protesters marched from several mosques after Friday prayers to a major street outside the embassy , which was under heavy police guard . They halted traffic along the way as they chanted " Allahu Akbar , " or " God is Great , " and " Save Palestinians . " <p> Authorities with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , organized by the Islamic Student Association and several other groups , to prevent the spread of the coronavirus . <p> More than 3,000 police , many wearing hazmat suits , were deployed to secure the embassy and the nearby presidential palace and United Nations mission . <p> Indonesia , the world 's most populous Muslim-majority nation , does not have formal diplomatic relations with Israel and there is no Israeli embassy in the country . It has long been a strong supporter of the Palestinians , and President Joko Widodo has condemned the Israeli airstrikes . <p> Media reports said similar protests were held Friday in at least 10 provincial capitals and cities across Indonesia . <p> Israel and the Islamic militant group Hamas have agreed to a cease-fire that took effect Friday , halting a bruising 11-day war that caused widespread destruction in the Gaza Strip and brought life in much of Israel to a standstill . <p> At least 230 Palestinians were killed , including 65 children and 39 women , and 1,710 people were wounded , according to the Gaza Health Ministry . Twelve people in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were killed in rocket attacks launched from civilian areas in Gaza toward civilian areas in Israel . <h> More from The Record &amp; Partners <h> More News <h> Top Stories <p> Copyright owned or licensed by Toronto Star Newspapers Limited . All rights reserved . Republication or distribution of this content is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Toronto Star Newspapers Limited and/or its licensors . To order copies of Toronto Star articles , please go to : **27;3710;TOOLONG 
@@87309879 <p> This copy is for your personal non-commercial use only . To order presentation-ready copies of Toronto Star content for distribution to colleagues , clients or customers , or inquire about permissions/licensing , please go to : **27;791;TOOLONG <h> Interfaith efforts strained by Israeli-Palestinian violence <p> DH <p> By David Crary And Luis Andres HenaoThe Associated Press <p> Fri. , May 14 , 2021timer4 min. read <p> The escalation of violence in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is dismaying American Muslims and Jews who 've been working to build bridges between their communities and are now struggling to quell fear and anger in their own circles . <p> " We 're heartbroken , " said Muslim attorney Atiya Aftab , the New Jersey-based co-founder of a major interfaith group , the Sisterhood of Salaam Shalom . She added that the situation threatens to derail the group 's work . <p> The organization , which seeks to build trust and friendships between Muslim and Jewish women and teenage girls , issued a statement regretting the " violent response " by Hamas , the Islamic militant group ruling Gaza , but was more expansive and forceful in condemning actions by Israeli security forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stop settlers and extremists from taking over the land and allow those who live in East Jerusalem to rightfully live there in peace , " the group said . " As Muslim and Jewish women of faith ... we have a responsibility to rise up and respond to injustice and prejudice . " <p> The grim events in Israel and Gaza have fueled " raw discussions " among members of another Muslim-Jewish partnership , Los Angeles-based NewGround , according to its executive director , Aziza Hasan . <p> She said a private Zoom gathering is planned for next week to address tensions within the community , which includes Palestinian Americans , Muslims with origins elsewhere and Jews holding a wide range of political views . Many members have relatives or friends in areas wracked by the violence . <p> " NewGround has been working hard to listen deeply to the enormous anger and fear , " Hasan , a Muslim , said via email . " There is fear that the violence is becoming increasingly personal in shared neighborhoods . " <p> " We do not know the immediate path @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ humanize one another , there wo n't be a path at all , " Hasan added , " We encourage our community members to reach out to someone else who holds a different view and listen to their story with compassion . " <p> Andrea Hodos , NewGround 's associate director , said she has close family in Israel and worries for Israelis taking refuge in bomb shelters . She has Palestinian American friends for whom she is also concerned , including one with family members in Gaza where there 's little protection against Israeli air strikes . <p> " We need to keep all these people in mind , " said Hodos , who is Jewish . " It does n't work all the time ... but our goal is to get as many people to stay at the table as possible , hearing one another 's stories . That 's what softens our hearts -- to be able to be with one another through these times . " <p> Ingrid Mattson , a Muslim scholar and former president of the Islamic Society of North America , wrote this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " among U.S. Christians , Muslims and Jews are in jeopardy " if those involved continue to be silent on Israeli attacks on Palestinians in Jerusalem and Al-Aqsa Mosque " during the holy month of Ramadan . <p> " This is the crisis of a generation , " she wrote . <p> In an interview , Mattson said she was anguished by what she saw as a muted response from some faith groups as that holy site was attacked , a traumatizing event for Muslims everywhere : " It makes a person question the nature of the ( interfaith ) relationship . " <p> She said there have been some important statements by allies , citing groups such as Rabbis for Human Rights and Jewish Voice for Peace that have strongly condemned Israeli policies and actions as cruel and unjust . But Western Christian denominations , she said , have been largely silent beyond calls for both sides to be peaceful . <p> " I feel like people should have learned something from the last year of public education about anti-Black racism and police violence against Black people in America @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " she said . <p> Jewish Voice for Peace , a California-based advocacy group critical of Israeli policies toward the Palestinians , lists interfaith outreach as one of its core missions . <p> ' We 've built deep partnerships with Muslim American groups , " said the organization 's executive director , Stefanie Fox . " To see this happening , in this most sacred period , is truly horrifying . ... There 's this incredibly urgent call to work together to hold the Israeli government accountable . " <p> The conflict came up during a Zoom session this week held by the Interfaith Dialogue Association of Grand Rapids , Michigan , to train medical residents on how to approach patients of different cultures and religions . <p> " You 'd think that subject was far enough away from Israel-Palestine . But no , it actually entered the conversation , " said Fred Stella , the president of the association , which is affiliated with the Kaufman Interfaith Institute at Grand Valley State University . " It 's very present right now . Very sadly so , as you can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mess , " Stella added . " If you do not approach it with the acknowledgment that there is no 100 percent absolute right guy in this fight , then you 're not going to engage in any interfaith dialogue . " <p> The violence has disrupted -- but not halted -- the work of Kids4Peace , a global organization based in Jerusalem whose work includes a program bringing together young Israelis and Palestinians . <p> " Since the most recent escalation between Gaza and Israel and the attempted lynchings at night by Arabs and Jews in some mixed cities , the hatred and violence in the streets around us is even more palpable , " the director of the youth encounter program , Ittay Flescher , said via email . <p> Flescher said some members were leery about leaving home to attend the group 's events , but attendance was still high at joint Palestinian-Israeli meals during Ramadan . <h> Loading ... <p> Loading ... Loading ... Loading ... Loading ... Loadi ... " Many youth felt it important to come together and share their frustrations , anger and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wrote . " If Jerusalem wo n't be a city that is a true home for all of us , it will not ultimately be a safe home for any of us . " <p> <p> Associated Press religion coverage receives support from the Lilly Endowment through The Conversation U.S. The AP is solely responsible for this content . <h> More from The Star &amp; Partners <h> More News <h> Top Stories <p> Copyright owned or licensed by Toronto Star Newspapers Limited . All rights reserved . Republication or distribution of this content is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Toronto Star Newspapers Limited and/or its licensors . To order copies of Toronto Star articles , please go to : **27;820;TOOLONG 
@@52776662 <h> Latest Stories <p> At the home of Abdulaziz and Mohamad Abdullah , their half-eaten food remains on a plate , their shoes at the front door . " Never to be worn again , " said a family member , whom CBC Ottawa is not naming because of concerns for her safety . The two men -- Abdullaziz , 34 , and Mohamad , 27 -- were shot dead in a drive-by shooting outside an Alta Vista strip mall Friday evening . A third brother , Fawaz Abdullah , who was shot in the leg and underwent surgery at hospital , is expected to survive his injuries . Ottawa police believe the shootings , and the men , were targeted . The drive-by shooting occurred just after 6:30 p.m . The brothers , believed to have been unarmed at the time , were shot near their white Range Rover at the sidewalk edge of a packed parking lot at the intersection of Alta Vista Drive and Dorion Avenue . Eyewitnesses who described the confrontation told CBC they heard gunshot after gunshot . Police and paramedics descended on the area . One of the brothers was found dead inside the vehicle , while another was on the ground . Police covered the driver 's side window of the SUV with a white sheet and placed a yellow tarp on the dead man on the ground . They cordoned off the entire parking lot and plaza , which contains a Shoppers Drug Mart and Tim Hortons , with police tape . A group of men stood watch across the street Friday evening near the bodies of their slain friends , their numbers slowly growing as police remained at the scene . The family said it was Fawaz who alerted relatives and friends about what happened , telling his mother and sister that his brothers had been killed . At the family home , mourners arrived to offer their condolences to a family struck by unimaginable tragedy -- three brothers shot in one evening -- and police officers stood guard through the night , the family member said . History with courts Two of the Abdullah brothers have a history with the criminal courts and gang-related violence . Abdulaziz Abdullah , or " EZ , " has been convicted numerous times for gang-and-gun violence . He was due in court in Toronto in September to face an attempted murder charge . His convictions range from gun possession to being an accessory after a homicide . He was also convicted for his involvement in a 2008 gang-related drive-by shooting in Ottawa 's south end . In 2011 , Abdulaziz was convicted of brandishing a gun to get rid of people from a hotel party . He then barricaded himself inside a room and a six-hour standoff with police ensued . He was convicted of possessing and carelessly handling a semi-automatic handgun . The parking lot of the Alta Vista Drive strip mall where 34-year-old Abdulaziz Abdullah and 27-year-old Mohamad Abdullah were shot to death on May 28 , 2021 , is seen here the following morning . ( Uday Rana/CBC ) Court records tell the story of a family that tried to steer him and his brothers away from a life of guns . He came to Canada from Kuwait when he was seven years old , according to the sentencing decision from the hotel case . After youth brushes with the law and " what his family considered to be undesirable friends , " the family returned to Kuwait . Abdulaziz returned to Canada in 2007 , and criminal charges and convictions continued . He pleaded guilty in October 2016 to being an accessory and getaway driver in the 2015 homicide of Sharif Said . Fawaz , or " Caesar , " was charged with two counts of attempted murder in a drive-by shooting in 2014 . He pleaded guilty to lesser firearms charges in 2016 and was sentenced to three years and 131 days in prison . ' They paid their debt ' Despite their mistakes , they did n't deserve to be victims of such violence , their family member said . The three brothers , along with their sister and mother , are the only members of the family living in Ottawa , the woman said , adding that the brothers were devoted to their mother and family . " But when with boys in the street , they were different men , " she said . " Every time they leave the house , they are afraid it 's their last day because of mistakes in the past . " They came to Canada as immigrants and grew up in a rough neighbourhood , the woman said . There were times that the family -- devout and religious Muslims -- distanced themselves from the brothers . Despite their negative past , they were still loved , respected and had a family . They were truly victims . - Family member But in recent years , the woman said , they were growing up and becoming adults . They recently celebrated Eid together . They were making plans to plant a garden . Their mother , the woman said , refused to leave them because she feared if she did that , they would choose the wrong path for good . On Friday evening , Abdulaziz and Mohamad " did n't expect to die , " the woman said . They were all just innocently hanging out together , as brothers , in the parking lot . " They paid their debt to society , " she said . " Despite their negative past , they were still loved , respected and had a family . They were truly victims . " Police appeal for information Since the killing , police have found a white Acura parked in Kanata South off of Old Richmond Road that was reported stolen from Toronto , according to police sources . It 's believed to be the getaway vehicle used in the triple shooting . The Abdullah brothers ' deaths are the fifth and sixth homicides in Ottawa in 2021 . Police do not believe that Friday 's double homicide is related to the fatal shooting of Abdulkadir Yusuf earlier this week . They are asking anyone with information to call the homicide unit at 613-236-1222 ext. 5493 . <p> FREDERICTON -- Health officials in New Brunswick say just over 60 per cent of residents aged 12 and older have received a first dose of a COVID-19 vaccine . Officials say more than 46,000 people have been at least partially immunized in the past week . The province is also reporting 10 new cases of the virus today . Five cases have been identified in the Moncton region , four in the Fredericton area and one in the Bathurst region . The province has 143 known active infections with seven people hospitalized , including six in New Brunswick and one out of province . Two patients are in intensive care , including one patient in the province and the patient hospitalized in another province . This report by The Canadian Press was first published May 29 , 2021 . The Canadian Press <p> The latest numbers on COVID-19 vaccinations in Canada as of 4:00 a.m . ET on Saturday , May 29 , 2021 . In Canada , the provinces are reporting 463,184 new vaccinations administered for a total of 22,809,939 doses given . Nationwide , 1,877,968 people or 5.0 per cent of the population has been fully vaccinated . The provinces have administered doses at a rate of 60,185.684 per 100,000 . There were 9,700 new vaccines delivered to the provinces and territories for a total of 25,994,734 doses delivered so far . The provinces and territories have used 87.75 per cent of their available vaccine supply . Please note that Newfoundland and Labrador , P.E.I. , Nova Scotia , New Brunswick and the territories typically do not report on a daily basis . Newfoundland and Labrador is reporting 30,656 new vaccinations administered over the past seven days for a total of 291,575 doses given . The province has administered doses at a rate of 556.833 per 1,000 . In the province , 2.13 per cent ( 11,161 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were zero new vaccines delivered to Newfoundland and Labrador for a total of 358,370 doses delivered so far . The province has received enough of the vaccine to give 68 per cent of its population a single dose . The province has used 81.36 per cent of its available vaccine supply . P.E.I. is reporting 9,044 new vaccinations administered over the past seven days for a total of 87,861 doses given . The province has administered doses at a rate of 553.877 per 1,000 . In the province , 8.11 per cent ( 12,868 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were zero new vaccines delivered to P.E.I. for a total of 105,595 doses delivered so far . The province has received enough of the vaccine to give 67 per cent of its population a single dose . The province has used 83.21 per cent of its available vaccine supply . Nova Scotia is reporting 77,294 new vaccinations administered over the past seven days for a total of 560,843 doses given . The province has administered doses at a rate of 574.694 per 1,000 . In the province , 4.43 per cent ( 43,252 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were zero new vaccines delivered to Nova Scotia for a total of 651,450 doses delivered so far . The province has received enough of the vaccine to give 67 per cent of its population a single dose . The province has used 86.09 per cent of its available vaccine supply . New Brunswick is reporting 51,654 new vaccinations administered over the past seven days for a total of 451,363 doses given . The province has administered doses at a rate of 578.641 per 1,000 . In the province , 4.87 per cent ( 37,999 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were zero new vaccines delivered to New Brunswick for a total of 533,805 doses delivered so far . The province has received enough of the vaccine to give 68 per cent of its population a single dose . The province has used 84.56 per cent of its available vaccine supply . Quebec is reporting 104,204 new vaccinations administered for a total of 5,306,336 doses given . The province has administered doses at a rate of 620.142 per 1,000 . There were 9,700 new vaccines delivered to Quebec for a total of 5,887,119 doses delivered so far . The province has received enough of the vaccine to give 69 per cent of its population a single dose . The province has used 90.13 per cent of its available vaccine supply . Ontario is reporting 159,775 new vaccinations administered for a total of 8,690,473 doses given . The province has administered doses at a rate of 591.628 per 1,000 . In the province , 4.25 per cent ( 624,920 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were zero new vaccines delivered to Ontario for a total of 10,075,515 doses delivered so far . The province has received enough of the vaccine to give 69 per cent of its population a single dose . The province has used 86.25 per cent of its available vaccine supply . Manitoba is reporting 23,236 new vaccinations administered for a total of 816,984 doses given . The province has administered doses at a rate of 593.305 per 1,000 . In the province , 7.06 per cent ( 97,180 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were zero new vaccines delivered to Manitoba for a total of 944,890 doses delivered so far . The province has received enough of the vaccine to give 69 per cent of its population a single dose . The province has used 86.46 per cent of its available vaccine supply . Saskatchewan is reporting 14,351 new vaccinations administered for a total of 693,625 doses given . The province has administered doses at a rate of 588.24 per 1,000 . In the province , 5.74 per cent ( 67,723 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were zero new vaccines delivered to Saskatchewan for a total of 815,975 doses delivered so far . The province has received enough of the vaccine to give 69 per cent of its population a single dose . The province has used 85.01 per cent of its available vaccine supply . Alberta is reporting 52,820 new vaccinations administered for a total of 2,668,567 doses given . The province has administered doses at a rate of 606.211 per 1,000 . In the province , 8.45 per cent ( 372,151 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were zero new vaccines delivered to Alberta for a total of 2,945,025 doses delivered so far . The province has received enough of the vaccine to give 67 per cent of its population a single dose . The province has used 90.61 per cent of its available vaccine supply . British Columbia is reporting 73,458 new vaccinations administered for a total of 3,106,269 doses given . The province has administered doses at a rate of 605.325 per 1,000 . In the province , 3.14 per cent ( 160,885 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were zero new vaccines delivered to British Columbia for a total of 3,511,360 doses delivered so far . The province has received enough of the vaccine to give 68 per cent of its population a single dose . The province has used 88.46 per cent of its available vaccine supply . Yukon is reporting 114 new vaccinations administered for a total of 52,649 doses given . The territory has administered doses at a rate of 1,261.628 per 1,000 . In the territory , 59.34 per cent ( 24,763 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were zero new vaccines delivered to Yukon for a total of 57,020 doses delivered so far . The territory has received enough of the vaccine to give 140 per cent of its population a single dose . The territory has used 92.33 per cent of its available vaccine supply . The Northwest Territories are reporting zero new vaccinations administered for a total of 52,237 doses given . The territory has administered doses at a rate of 1,157.761 per 1,000 . In the territory , 51.74 per cent ( 23,344 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were zero new vaccines delivered to the Northwest Territories for a total of 63,510 doses delivered so far . The territory has received enough of the vaccine to give 140 per cent of its population a single dose . The territory has used 82.25 per cent of its available vaccine supply . Nunavut is reporting zero new vaccinations administered for a total of 31,157 doses given . The territory has administered doses at a rate of 804.55 per 1,000 . In the territory , 36.44 per cent ( 14,113 ) of the population has been fully vaccinated . There were zero new vaccines delivered to Nunavut for a total of 45,100 doses delivered so far . The territory has received enough of the vaccine to give 120 per cent of its population a single dose . The territory has used 69.08 per cent of its available vaccine supply . *Notes on data : The figures are compiled by the COVID-19 Open Data Working Group based on the latest publicly available data and are subject to change . Note that some provinces report weekly , while others report same-day or figures from the previous day . Vaccine doses administered is not equivalent to the number of people inoculated as some approved vaccines require two doses per person . The vaccines are currently not being administered to children under 12 and those with certain health conditions . In some cases the number of doses administered may appear to exceed the number of doses distributed as some provinces have been drawing extra doses per vial . This report was automatically generated by The Canadian Press Digital Data Desk and was first published May 29 , 2021 . The Canadian Press <p> One person is dead and four people have been taken to trauma centres " in various conditions " following a shooting in Mississauga , Ont. , Saturday , Peel Regional Police said . Officers said they responded to reports of a shooting in the area of Glen Erin Drive and The Collegeway just before 7:30 p.m . ET . Speaking to reporters from the scene Saturday night , Peel police Const . Danny Marttini said officers found five victims suffering from gunshot wounds . One person was pronounced dead at the scene , while four other victims were taken to different trauma centres . Marttini could not provide an update on the conditions , genders or ages of the victims . Police say the shooting happened in a plaza in the vicinity of multiple food shops . They could not confirm whether the incident happened indoors or outside . They also could not say what led up to the shooting . Peel police Const . Danny Marttini says investigators do n't yet know how many suspects they are looking for and have " very limited information " about the incident that left one person dead and four others injured . ( Mark Bochsler/CBC ) No arrests have been made as of Saturday night . Police have yet to confirm how many shooters they are searching for , adding they have " very limited information " about the incident . No suspect description has been released . The homicide unit has taken over the case and investigators are appealing for witnesses or anyone who may have dashcam footage to contact them . There are significant road closures in the area while police investigate . <p> Ontario joins the growing ranks of provinces moving to get more people a second dose of vaccine . This as new Canadian evidence shows a first dose offers strong , but far from perfect , protection against the virus . <p> The latest numbers of confirmed COVID-19 cases in Canada as of 4:00 a.m . ET on Saturday , May 29 , 2021 . There are 1,374,275 confirmed cases in Canada . Canada : 1,374,275 confirmed cases ( 39,903 active , 1,308,932 resolved , 25,440 deaths ) . *The total case count includes 13 confirmed cases among repatriated travellers . There were 3,206 new cases Friday . The rate of active cases is 104.99 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 22,154 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 3,165 . There were 31 new reported deaths Friday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of 278 new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is 40 . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.1 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 66.94 per 100,000 people . There have been 34,550,157 tests completed . Newfoundland and Labrador : 1,293 confirmed cases ( 100 active , 1,187 resolved , six deaths ) . There were 14 new cases Friday . The rate of active cases is 19.15 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 67 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 10 . There have been no deaths reported over the past week . The overall death rate is 1.15 per 100,000 people . There have been 267,847 tests completed . Prince Edward Island : 202 confirmed cases ( 12 active , 190 resolved , zero deaths ) . There were two new cases Friday . The rate of active cases is 7.52 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of two new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is zero . There have been no deaths reported over the past week . The overall death rate is zero per 100,000 people . There have been 161,140 tests completed . Nova Scotia : 5,497 confirmed cases ( 585 active , 4,832 resolved , 80 deaths ) . There were 40 new cases Friday . The rate of active cases is 59.73 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 348 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 50 . There was one new reported death Friday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of four new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is one . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.06 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 8.17 per 100,000 people . There have been 798,079 tests completed . New Brunswick : 2,181 confirmed cases ( 140 active , 1,998 resolved , 43 deaths ) . There were nine new cases Friday . The rate of active cases is 17.91 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 68 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 10 . There have been no deaths reported over the past week . The overall death rate is 5.5 per 100,000 people . There have been 338,979 tests completed . Quebec : 369,318 confirmed cases ( 4,758 active , 353,442 resolved , 11,118 deaths ) . There were 419 new cases Friday . The rate of active cases is 55.49 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 2,924 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 418 . There were four new reported deaths Friday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of 43 new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is six . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.07 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 129.66 per 100,000 people . There have been 9,152,249 tests completed . Ontario : 528,453 confirmed cases ( 15,438 active , 504,304 resolved , 8,711 deaths ) . There were 1,273 new cases Friday . The rate of active cases is 104.78 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 9,473 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 1,353 . There were 14 new reported deaths Friday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of 132 new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is 19 . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.13 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 59.12 per 100,000 people . There have been 14,952,303 tests completed . Manitoba : 50,144 confirmed cases ( 4,676 active , 44,426 resolved , 1,042 deaths ) . There were 497 new cases Friday . The rate of active cases is 339.02 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 2,640 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 377 . There was one new reported death Friday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of 20 new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is three . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.21 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 75.55 per 100,000 people . There have been 787,725 tests completed . Saskatchewan : 46,285 confirmed cases ( 1,371 active , 44,378 resolved , 536 deaths ) . There were 122 new cases Friday . The rate of active cases is 116.32 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 975 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 139 . There were two new reported deaths Friday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of 12 new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is two . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.15 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 45.47 per 100,000 people . There have been 849,440 tests completed . Alberta : 226,449 confirmed cases ( 9,277 active , 214,966 resolved , 2,206 deaths ) . There were 512 new cases Friday . The rate of active cases is 209.8 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 3,438 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 491 . There were seven new reported deaths Friday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of 42 new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is six . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.14 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 49.89 per 100,000 people . There have been 4,489,984 tests completed . British Columbia : 143,581 confirmed cases ( 3,529 active , 138,360 resolved , 1,692 deaths ) . There were 317 new cases Friday . The rate of active cases is 68.55 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of 2,208 new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is 315 . There were two new reported deaths Friday . Over the past seven days there have been a total of 25 new reported deaths . The seven-day rolling average of new reported deaths is four . The seven-day rolling average of the death rate is 0.07 per 100,000 people . The overall death rate is 32.87 per 100,000 people . There have been 2,704,672 tests completed . Yukon : 84 confirmed cases ( zero active , 82 resolved , two deaths ) . There were zero new cases Friday . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of zero new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is zero . There have been no deaths reported over the past week . The overall death rate is 4.76 per 100,000 people . There have been 9,129 tests completed . Northwest Territories : 127 confirmed cases ( two active , 125 resolved , zero deaths ) . There were zero new cases Friday . The rate of active cases is 4.43 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there have been a total of zero new cases . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is zero . There have been no deaths reported over the past week . The overall death rate is zero per 100,000 people . There have been 23,157 tests completed . Nunavut : 648 confirmed cases ( 15 active , 629 resolved , four deaths ) . There was one new case Friday . The rate of active cases is 38.12 per 100,000 people . Over the past seven days , there has been 11 new case . The seven-day rolling average of new cases is two . There have been no deaths reported over the past week . The overall death rate is 10.16 per 100,000 people . There have been 15,377 tests completed . This report was automatically generated by The Canadian Press Digital Data Desk and was first published May 29 , 2021 . The Canadian Press <p> KYIV , Ukraine ( AP ) -- As fear of repression rises among Belarusians following the arrest of a dissident journalist whose plane was forcibly diverted to Minsk , those who want to leave the country are feeling increasingly cornered . Its land borders already were under tight restrictions , and now the European Union has banned flights from Belarus after a jetliner was diverted to Minsk earlier this week and authorities arrested a dissident journalist who was aboard . That leaves opposition-minded Belarusians with few options to get out from under the authoritarian rule of President Alexander Lukashenko . " Shutting the borders turns Belarus into a can of rotting preserves . We are being turned into hostages , " said Tatsiana Hatsura-Yavorska , who leads a rights group that helps those released from prison adapt to life and also organizes documentary film festivals . " The authorities have scaled up repressions in recent months to incite the atmosphere of fear , " she told The Associated Press . Hatsura-Yavorska said most of her friends and associates have faced detention , searches and brutal beatings , and many have fled Belarus . She served 10 days in jail after organizing a photo exhibition about medical workers in the coronavirus pandemic that authorities decided leaned toward the opposition . She faces charges that could land her in prison for three years . Lukashenko , who has led the former Soviet nation of 9.3 million for more than a quarter century , has faced unprecedented protests after his reelection to a sixth term in an August 2020 vote that the opposition rejects as rigged . He has responded to the demonstrations with a fierce clampdown that has left more than 35,000 people arrested and thousands of them beaten . Hatsura-Yavorska said following her arrest last month , she was put in an ice cold cell for two days without a mattress and was forced to wake up every two hours at night . The authorities released her after 10 days on the condition she not leave the city pending a criminal investigation on charges of " organizing actions that violate public order . " " Who would like to remain in such a country ? " she said by phone . " The authorities have divided all citizens into loyalists and enemies , and treat us accordingly . " Hatsura-Yavorska 's Ukrainian husband was ordered to leave Belarus along with their 9-year-old son and was barred from returning for 10 years . " They used my son to blackmail me . They beat me during interrogations and threatened to put me in jail and pushed me out of the country in the end , " Volodymyr Yavorskyy told the AP in Kyiv . " I could n't imagine that I would find myself in hell in the middle of Europe . Belarus is being shut closed right before our eyes , and millions of Belarusians are finding themselves hostage . " He communicates with his wife via the internet , but fears the Belarusian authorities will move to tighten controls over it . " Public protest has continued , and so the authorities ... close everything they can reach -- borders , organizations and websites , " he said . " They are turning Belarus into a scorched land . " Belarus tightened restrictions at its land border in December . Those willing to cross must explain their reason , such as work , medical care or education , and can only do it once every six months . On Sunday , a Ryanair plane traveling from Greece to Lithuania with dissident journalist Raman Pratasevich aboard was diverted to Minsk after Belarusian flight controllers told the jet 's crew to land there because of a bomb threat . Authorities then arrested Pratasevich , who ran a channel on a messaging app that was used to organize demonstrations against Lukashenko . EU leaders denounced it as akin to air piracy and responded by barring Belarusian carriers from the bloc 's airspace and airports . " The air boycott has hurt not only the regime but ricocheted against its opponents willing to leave the country , " said Artyom Shraybman , a Minsk-based independent political analyst . While Belarusian carriers have been banned from EU airspace , they are allowed to fly to other destinations . Arriving in Tbilisi , Georgia , on a flight from Belarus , a man said " people are trying to leave and those who can go to Europe are trying to do so . " The traveler , who asked to be identified only by his first name , Anatoly , for fear of reprisal , said the Ryanair flight 's diversion has deepened his concerns about his country 's course , noting that " people ca n't guarantee their future , ca n't guarantee the future of their children . " Alena , another Belarusian traveler who similarly asked for her last name to be withheld , said people who can afford to leave Belarus will try to do so amid what she described as a " brutal " government response to protests . Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya , the main opposition challenger in the August vote , urged the EU to ramp up sanctions and banish Belarus from Interpol and the International Civil Aviation Organization to increase pressure on Lukashenko 's regime . But she also demanded that the country 's land borders be open . " I understand the EU 's decision to halt flights over Belarus as it 's a matter of security for all Europeans , " said Tsikhanouskaya , who fled to neighboring Lithuania under pressure from the government shortly after the election . " But we demand to open the land borders for free travel of Belarusian citizens , because we ca n't allow the regime to turn our country into a prison for 9 million people . " Follow all AP stories on Belarus at https : //apnews.com/hub/Belarus . Yuras Karmanau , The Associated Press <p> Quebec will loom large in the next federal election and recent moves by the Liberals suggest they 're making a play for the Bloc Qu ? b ? cois-held seats that stand between them and a majority government . On a number of files -- the protection of the French language , Quebec 's plans to make changes to the Constitution and Bill C-10 , a piece of legislation with broad support within the province -- Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has struck a pose of openness to Quebec . The Liberals are hoping voters in the province will be just as open to them . Polls suggest the party is on the threshold of securing the majority government it failed to win in 2019 . According to the CBC 's Poll Tracker , an aggregation of all publicly available polling data , the party would win around 171 seats if an election were held today . The Liberals need at least 170 seats to win a majority government -- which means their current polling levels do n't give them much margin for error . Quebec is an important piece in the electoral puzzle for the Liberals . It might also be the best place for them to find many of the seats they need to reach 170 . The Poll Tracker 's seat projection model suggests that the Liberals have more upside in Quebec than anywhere else in the country , with the potential to pick up as many as nine more seats in the province . The Liberals ' best-case scenarios for gains elsewhere suggest they could win eight more seats in British Columbia , six in Ontario and five in Alberta , along with another five seats sprinkled across the Prairies and Atlantic Canada . But some of those gains are easier to imagine than others . Not all potential seat gains are created equal Let 's start on the West Coast . To get those eight B.C. seats , the Liberals would need to win ridings in the B.C. Interior , defeat Independent MP Jody Wilson-Raybould and prevail in tight three-way battles with the Conservatives and New Democrats in parts of the Lower Mainland . In Ontario , the question is whether the Liberals have hit their ceiling already . The party won 79 seats in Ontario in 2019 , just one less than the 80 seats they won in 2015 , when the Trudeau Liberals got their majority government . The Ontario seats on the Liberal target list include some rural ridings -- some with well-ensconced incumbents and some located on the edges of the Greater Toronto Area . In both Ontario and B.C. , Liberal gains would have to happen in politically distinct regions where the party would have to defeat both Conservatives and New Democrats . There 's no guarantee the Liberals could pull that off . What about Alberta ? Let 's be serious -- the Liberals winning five seats there might look plausible on paper , considering the swing in the polls there since 2019 , but that would require the Liberals to overcome enormous margins without the benefit of incumbents . Amarjeet Sohi , for one , is too busy running for mayor of Edmonton to try to win his Edmonton Mill Woods seat back . Despite the likely effect of Alberta Premier Jason Kenney 's unpopularity on federal Conservative numbers , the polls may be again underestimating Conservative support in the province . ( Government of Alberta ) The polls also significantly under-estimated Conservative support in Alberta in 2019 and could be doing so again , even if Alberta Premier Jason Kenney is a drag on federal Conservative numbers . Polls improving for Liberals in Quebec That leaves Quebec . The Liberals won 35 seats in the province in 2019 ; the Poll Tracker now puts the likely range of Liberal wins in the province at between 35 and 44 seats . The top end of that range would put the Liberals -- who were 13 seats short of a majority in 2019 -- more than two-thirds of the way to the promised land . The seats in question are overwhelmingly francophone and mostly clustered around the island of Montreal . With the exceptions of Beauport -- Limoilou in Quebec City and Trois-Rivi ? res in central Quebec , where the Conservatives might also be a factor , the Liberals ' primary opponents in these seats are Bloc incumbents . The polls have been good for the Liberals in Quebec lately . The party has 37 per cent support in the province , according to the Poll Tracker . Though there have been big variations in results -- from 29 to 47 per cent in individual polls -- more often than not , the Liberals have been closer to 40 per cent approval in Quebec . That 's a new development . In four of the last eight polls , the Liberals registered support of 40 per cent or more in Quebec . They did that only four times in the previous 19 surveys . Bloc Qu ? b ? cois Leader Yves-Fran ? ois Blanchet might be playing defence in the next election to prevent the Liberals from winning some of the seats his party currently holds . ( Sean Kilpatrick / Canadian Press ) Yves-Fran ? ois Blanchet 's Bloc Qu ? b ? cois , on the other hand , is polling at around 27 per cent , with most surveys putting the party below the 32.5 per cent they hit in 2019 . The shifts between these two parties have been the only significant signs of movement in recent Quebec federal polling . The Conservatives and NDP have both been stable and consistent at around 17 and 10 per cent , respectively -- largely unchanged from last time . The polls suggest that , since 2019 , the Liberals have picked up about three points in Quebec , with the Bloc falling 5.5 points . When the Liberals score high in individual Quebec polls , the Bloc tends to poll lower . That suggests some movement going on between Liberal and Bloc voters . Liberals courting the Bloc vote So the Liberals ' recent focus on Quebec makes political sense . In February , the Liberals brought forward proposals to reform the Official Languages Act to expand the right to work in French . Outside of Quebec , Heritage Minister ( and Montreal MP ) Steven Guilbeault has come under fire over Bill C-10 , controversial legislation meant to bring web giants under the purview of the Broadcasting Act . In Quebec , however , the bill has broad support and received unanimous backing in the National Assembly . And when Premier Fran ? ois Legault 's government brought forward Bill 96 -- a piece of legislation aimed at protecting the French language that includes a proposal to change the Constitution to recognize Quebec as a nation and French as the language of that nation -- Trudeau said that his government 's initial legal analysis concluded the province could go ahead . The Liberals ' electoral analysis , meanwhile , might also conclude that the New Democrats are no longer a major player in Quebec , the Greens have big but unrealistic ambitions in the province and the Conservative offer to Quebecers appears similar to the one voters rejected in 2019 . To win a majority , the Liberals have to beat the Bloc at its own game . It is no easy feat to out-Quebec the Bloc . That does n't mean the Trudeau Liberals are n't going to try . <p> HANOI , Vietnam ( AP ) -- Vietnam has discovered a new coronavirus variant that 's a hybrid of strains first found in India and the U.K. , the Vietnamese health minister said Saturday . Nguyen Thanh Long said scientists examined the genetic makeup of the virus that had infected some recent patients , and found the new version of the virus . He said lab tests suggested it might spread more easily than other versions of the virus . Viruses often develop small genetic changes as they reproduce , and new variants of the coronavirus have been seen almost since it was first detected in China in late 2019 . The World Health Organization has listed four global " variants of concern " -- the two first found in the U.K. and India , plus ones identified in South Africa and Brazil . Long says the new variant could be responsible for a recent surge in Vietnam , which has spread to 30 of the country 's 63 municipalities and provinces . Vietnam was initially a standout success in battling the virus -- in early May , it had recorded just over 3,100 confirmed cases and 35 deaths since the start of the pandemic . But in the last few weeks , Vietnam has confirmed more than 3,500 new cases and 12 deaths , increasing the country 's total death toll to 47 . Most of the new transmissions were found in Bac Ninh and Bac Giang , two provinces dense with industrial zones where hundreds of thousands of people work for major companies including Samsung , Canon and Luxshare , a partner in assembling Apple products . Despite strict health regulations , a company in Bac Giang discovered that one fifth of its 4,800 workers had tested positive for the virus . In Ho Chi Minh City , the country 's largest metropolis and home to 9 million , at least 85 people have tested positive as part of a cluster at a Protestant church , the Health Ministry said . Worshippers sang and chanted while sitting close together without wearing proper masks or taking other precautions . Vietnam has since ordered a nationwide ban on all religious events . In major cities , authorities have banned large gatherings , closed public parks and non-essential business including in-person restaurants , bars , clubs and spas . Vietnam so far has vaccinated 1 million people with AstraZeneca shots . Last week , it sealed a deal with Pfizer for 30 million doses , which are scheduled to be delivered in the third and fourth quarters of this year . It is also in talks with Moderna that would give it enough shots to fully vaccine 80% of its 96 million people . Hau Dinh , The Associated Press <p> TORONTO -- Ontario received permission from Health Canada to extend the expiry of some doses of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine on Saturday , saving thousands of shots from potentially going to waste . A spokeswoman for Health Minister Christine Elliott said the change means doses with an original expiry of May 31 can now be used until July 1 . " Health Canada has issued an authorization to extend the expiry date of specific lots of the AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine from six months to seven months , following the review of submitted stability data , " Alexandra Hilkene said in a statement . Pharmacies and physicians offices had been rushing to administer thousands of shots this weekend ahead of their previous Monday expiry date to avoid wasting doses . Ontario had been trying to redistribute a stockpile of 45,000 shots expiring on May 31 and 10,000 more going bad in June . But quality checks held up the delivery of thousands of the shots , and many did n't reach their final destinations until Friday . The head of the Ontario Pharmacists Association said Health Canada 's decision is not unprecedented when it comes to evolving data associated with a new vaccine . " It 's good news , " Justin Bates said . " Although I do appreciate this is going to create a lot more questions ... so people can continue to make an informed consent decision . " Bates said pharmacies in different parts of Ontario had ramped up efforts to get shots into arms and avoid wasting any doses , and those efforts will continue . " It does give us a longer runway and reduces the risk of any ( waste ) , which I think is a good thing and that 's the silver lining in all of this , " he said . The province paused the use of the AstraZeneca vaccine earlier this month due to an increase in reports of rare but deadly blood clots . It started offering it again this week as a second shot to people who received the dose between March 10 and March 19 at pharmacies in Toronto , Windsor and Kingston , and at some primary care offices . Approximately 90,000 people participated in an AstraZeneca pilot between March 10 and March 19 . The province said 148,972 doses of a COVID-19 vaccine were administered in the past 24 hours for a total of over 8.8 million doses issued over the course of the immunization effort . Ontario reported 1,057 new cases of COVID-19 on Saturday and 15 more deaths linked to the virus . Meanwhile , Ontario 's COVID-19 science table said Saturday that the province can re-open schools safely on a regional basis while still limiting the risk of further virus transmission . The new advice comes in response to Premier Doug Ford 's request for input on whether or not the province should reopen schools as cases trend downward across the province . The group said some regions could reopen based on the advice of local medical officers of health and continued adherence to public health measures . " We believe that Ontario can re-open schools safely on a regional basis to mitigate the significant short and long-term harms arising from school closures , while managing the risk of virus transmission in this sector , " the group said in a letter to Ford released Saturday . The province closed schools in April as COVID-19 cases surged and Ford has said he wants a consensus on the issue from stakeholders before making a decision . Ford wrote to those experts and education stakeholders Thursday , giving them a day and a half to respond to a series of questions on the possible reopening of classrooms for in-person learning . The premier has said he does n't want to rely solely on the advice of the province 's top public health official , Dr. David Williams , who believes students should return to the classroom . " I know very clearly where Dr. Williams stands , ' ' Ford said Friday . " But I want the scientists to weigh in . I want to make sure the teachers ' unions weigh in . I want other educational workers to weigh in . I do n't want to rush this . ' ' The science table said in Saturday 's report that the closure may be harming some students ' physical and mental health and reopening would allow schools to re-establish contact with teachers and peers . " This deterioration is now evident in the form of increased ambulatory care use and hospital admissions , most poignantly for children and youth with eating disorders , " the report said . " We believe these mental health indicators represent the tip of the iceberg and that children and youth mental health will present significant long-term challenges during our recovery from the pandemic . " The science table recently said reopening schools could cause COVID-19 case rates to rise between six and 11 per cent . But the group said Saturday it now believes the resulting case increases from re-opening schools would be small and most public health units feel that they can manage those increases . " Schools that re-open should maintain their public health measures vigorously and build on the strategies they have already deployed to limit spread , " they said . The group also called on the province to use the summer to improve school ventilation and continue efforts to vaccinate students . The letter from the province 's science advisers was co-signed by 10 other groups including the Ontario Medical Association , The Hospital For Sick Children and the Council of Ontario Medical Officers of Health . This report by The Canadian Press was first published May 29 , 2021 . Shawn Jeffords , The Canadian Press <p> In 2004 , Paul Martin 's Liberals chose to drop Jean Chr ? tien 's policy and tack in a more pro-Israel direction . The change became public when Canada voted alongside the U.S. against a motion at the United Nations that affirmed the right of Palestinians " to mobilize support for their cause . " Although Stephen Harper and his Conservatives would continue to claim to be better friends of Israel , it was clear from 2004 on that the differences between the parties amounted to only a matter of degree . Differences shrank further in 2012 when Tom Mulcair , a self-described " ardent supporter of Israel in all instances and circumstances , " won the leadership of the New Democratic Party . That consensus of party leaderships began to dissolve with Jagmeet Singh 's election as NDP leader in October 2017 . The latest Gaza war has shaken things up again . " I do n't think Canadian politics on this particular issue is the same as it was a month ago , " said Liberal MP Nathaniel Erskine-Smith . " And I do n't know that it ever will be the same . " Today , Paul Manly represents Nanaimo-Ladysmith for the Greens , but until 2014 , he was a New Democrat . " I was one of 14 candidates that were rejected by the NDP for having said anything about Israel and Palestine , " he told CBC News . Former New Democrat MP Jim Manly makes a statement in a pre-recorded video released on YouTube on Oct. 20 , 2012 , after the ship Estelle was commandeered by Israeli troops . ( Canadian Press ) In 2012 Manly 's father , Jim , himself a former NDP MP and United Church minister , was detained by Israeli commandos who boarded a vessel that was attempting to break Israel 's naval blockade and deliver supplies to Gaza . " When my father was in detention in Israel , no NDP MP would speak out for him , and my own member of Parliament was told that she could n't speak about the issue , " Manly said . " So to not be able to speak up for a constituent stuck in an international situation when other countries are speaking for their citizens really lays bare the hard line that was taken by Tom Mulcair at the time . " Greens divided But Manly 's new party has also experienced friction in the wake of recent events . A statement by Green Party Leader Annamie Paul calling for a ceasefire and condemning both Palestinian rocket attacks and excessive Israeli military force appeared to be an attempt to put forward a moderate position close to that of the Trudeau government . Green MP Jenica Atwin responded on Twitter : " It is a totally inadequate statement .... End Apartheid . " Green MP Jenica Atwin blasted her own leader 's statement on Gaza as " totally inadequate . " ( Twitter ) Paul , who converted to Judaism 20 years ago , has spoken in Israeli media about the prejudice she faced when running for the Green Party leadership . " It started out as innuendo , with veiled suggestions and attacks against me as a Zionist , " she said . " And then because neither we nor others responded to it , people became more emboldened and more explicit . " I was accused of the usual tropes , including being in the pocket of foreign agents , being embedded in a political party to further the goals of those foreign agents , and the usual things related to money . " Green Leader Annamie Paul , a convert to Judaism , says she 's faced prejudice in politics . ( Adrian Wyld/The Canadian Press ) The recriminations fly This month , as tensions in the Middle East flared , it was Paul 's senior adviser , Noah Zatzman , who charged that " a range of political actors " were disseminating " appalling antisemitism and discrimination ... beginning with Jagmeet Singh and former Green leadership candidate Dimitri Lascaris and many Liberal , NDP and sadly , Green MPs . " ( The entire Green caucus has only three members . ) Zatzman told CBC News he wanted to be clear that his comments about Green MPs did not refer to Elizabeth May , whom he called " a great friend of the Jewish community . " He said he has suffered ongoing harassment as a result of the position he took within the party , to the extent that his parents felt compelled to delist their address . A Facebook post by Noah Zatzman , senior adviser to Green Party leader Annamie Paul , accused the party 's own MPs of antisemitic behaviour . ( Facebook ) " I think using accusations of antisemitism to shut down legitimate criticism of human rights abuses is offensive and dangerous , and it dilutes the weight that word carries when it 's used to identify real antisemitism , " Manly told CBC News . Manly responded to Zatzman 's claims by publishing an article by his friend and chief of staff , former Israeli soldier Ilan Goldenblatt , entitled " Criticizing Human Rights Abuses Is Not Anti-Semitism . " NDP position shifting Paul Manly would not be disqualified from today 's NDP . Singh has n't moved the party as far or as fast as his critics on the left would like . But the party has moved beneath his feet . Delegates to the NDP 's April convention supported motions calling for " an end to Israeli occupation of Palestinian land " and an end to " all trade and economic cooperation with illegal settlements in Israel-Palestine . " When similar motions were proposed at the NDP convention in 2018 , they failed even to come to a vote . The NDP 's approach to Middle East policy seems to be shifting under leader Jagmeet Singh . ( Adrian Wyld/Canadian Press ) The motions led the Centre for Israel and Jewish Affairs ( CIJA ) to accuse the NDP of harbouring " a toxic obsession with Israel . " It said Singh 's comments on the recent conflict -- by focusing on Palestinian victims while overlooking deaths and injuries from Hamas rockets -- were " cold-hearted , morally reprehensible and inconsistent with his previous statements on the matter . " But Singh has continued to recalibrate his position . " If we want to achieve peace , we need to apply pressure to achieve it , " he said this week , making it clear that pressure should be on Israel . Trudeau : Harper-era policy on autopilot Conservative Foreign Affairs critic Michael Chong gave CBC News a restrained statement just before the ceasefire : " Canada 's Conservatives have been clear that Israel is one of Canada 's closest allies and we support Israel 's right to defend itself . Dialogue and peaceful negotiation are the only path forward towards a settlement between Israelis and Palestinians and an eventual two-state solution . We urge calm and sincerely hope that hostilities cease . " While the Conservatives have n't changed their position on the topic , they have dialed back the volume . Support for Israel is no longer a staple of party fundraisers and the foreign policy focus has clearly shifted to China . The Conservative Party is n't really seeking to highlight differences with Trudeau 's Liberals on the conflict -- partly because there really are n't any big ones . Prime Minister Justin Trudeau maintained , without fanfare , Stephen Harper 's pro-Israel voting record at the UN and , a few months after becoming prime minister , voted in Parliament to condemn BDS ( the movement to boycott Israel ) " both here at home and abroad . " Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has largely maintained the Harper government policy on UN votes related to Israel . ( Amr Alfiky/Reuters ) When Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu asked Trudeau to intercede to discourage the International Criminal Court at The Hague from investigating the 2014 Israel-Gaza War , Trudeau wrote to the court that Palestinians , as stateless people , had no right to bring cases for war crimes . But some in his party no longer seem willing to go along with that approach . Splits in Liberal ranks Liberal MP Erskine-Smith said the government is too tolerant of Israeli settlements . " For as long as I 've followed politics , we have n't seen Canadian governments that have acted vocally consistent with Canadian foreign policy , which is that settlement expansion is contrary to international law , " he said . In April , Erskine-Smith presented a petition calling on Canada to oppose the pending evictions of Palestinian families from homes in the Sheikh Jarrah district of East Jerusalem , an issue that helped trigger the recent deadly conflict . Liberal MP Nathaniel Erskine-Smith says his government should take a harder line on Israeli settlement expansion . ( CBC ) " There 's an asymmetry to the conflict between Palestine and Israel , " he told CBC News . " And pressure needs to be brought to bear upon Israel to ensure that we do n't see continued settlement expansion and we do see greater concern around human rights . " The Trudeau government has voted against dozens of UN resolutions that affirm existing tenets of Canadian policy -- such as UN resolution 17/96 , guaranteeing the protections of the Geneva Convention to Palestinian civilians . Like the Harper government , it says it does that to protest what it calls the singling out of Israel . Friendly criticism Erksine-Smith said he agrees that " there are many other countries deserving of criticism on human rights bases as well . And so the singling out of Israel , I think , can be problematic . " My overall view , though , is that for the very reason that we hold up Israel as an ally , as a democracy with an independent judiciary that shares our those grounds that we ought to criticize as a friend . " Both Liberal MP Erskine-Smith and Green MP Manly said they have been deluged with mail about events in Gaza , and both say they believe that strong reaction was conditioned by a year of protests over racial justice in North America . Changing times Erskine-Smith described a recent friendly conversation with an Israeli diplomat . " My message to him was : I 've not seen this level of correspondence from people who do n't follow politics and are n't seized with this really complex issue , " he said . " And I think those who represent the Israeli government and Canada need to know that . " The MP said he told the diplomat that current Israeli policies are " undermining Canadian support for our continued friendship . " If currents are shifting in Canada , Israeli politics are in turmoil . There is a strong chance that the Netanyahu era is drawing to an end . For those whose task it is to argue Israel 's cause in Canada , a new Israeli government could make life easier . Israel 's longest-running prime minister is too much of a known quantity to change many minds on either side of the debate in Canada . Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . ( Sebastian Scheiner/The Associated Press ) While the NDP says it wants to halt Canada 's arms sales to Israel ( which are negligible anyway ) , what really matters to Israel is Canada 's diplomatic support . Without it , Israel 's guaranteed votes at the UN could shrink to only the U.S. and the handful of small Pacific Island states that vote with U.S. foreign policy . And even Washington 's support -- the cornerstone of Israel 's security , along with its nuclear deterrent -- is looking much less certain in these changed times . <p> HALIFAX -- Nova Scotia is reporting its highest single-day death toll from COVID-19 in just over a year with four new deaths related to the virus . Health officials say the deaths include two men in their 80s and a woman in her 70s in the Halifax area , as well as a man in his 80s in the western zone . The province 's previous single day high was recorded on May 3 , 2020 when six people died as a result of COVID-19 . A total of 84 people have died since the beginning of the pandemic . Officials also reported 33 new cases of the today , with 21 in the Halifax area , seven in the eastern zone , three in the western zone and two in the northern zone . There are 566 known active cases of the novel coronavirus in Nova Scotia and 43 people in hospital , including 18 in intensive care . The province 's chief medical officer of health gave his condolences to the families of those who died in a news release Saturday , along with a warning to the public . " I can not emphasize enough how critical it is to follow both the letter and the spirit of the public health measures to prevent further illness and death from this virus , " said Dr. Robert Strang . " We must never forget that it is all around us , and that is why it is so important we loosen restrictions and reopen slowly and gradually . " Nova Scotia announced what it called a cautious plan to lift lockdown restrictions that have been in place since the end of April on Friday . Premier Iain Rankin unveiled a complex , five-phase strategy that wo n't progress until the province meets certain vaccination rates and hospitalization numbers . This report by The Canadian Press was first published May 29 , 2021 . The Canadian Press <p> RIO DE JANEIRO/BRASILIA ( Reuters ) -Brazilians staged protests against President Jair Bolsonaro 's handling of the COVID-19 pandemic in at least 16 cities across the country on Saturday , carrying signs such as " Out with Bolsonaro " and " Impeachment now . " Bolsonaro 's popularity has plummeted during the coronavirus crisis , which has killed more than 460,000 Brazilians as the far-right leader played down its severity , dismissed mask wearing and cast doubt on the importance of vaccines . Organized by leftist political parties , unions and student associations , Saturday 's protests in the capital Brasilia and in Rio de Janeiro were peaceful , but in the northeastern city of Recife , police threw tear gas and shot rubber bullets . <p> Homicide investigators say foul play is suspected in the death of a 19-year-old woman whose body was found along Highway 1 north of Hope , B.C. earlier this week . Boston Bar RCMP said a passing motorist reported seeing a human body near Highway 1 between Hope and Yale on May 26 at approximately 1:50 p.m . The victim has been identified as Melissa Elizabeth Steele , according to the Integrated Homicide Investigation Team ( IHIT ) . She was known to frequent the downtown area of Vancouver and led a transient lifestyle . Sgt. Frank Jang said in a written release on Friday that investigators are working to develop a timeline of Steele 's activities before her death . They are also looking for dashcam footage from anyone who was travelling between Boston Bar and Hope on May 25 and 26 . Anyone with information is urged to call IHIT at 1 877 551-IHIT ( 4448 ) , or email at **26;273;TOOLONG . Anonymous reports can be made at Crime Stoppers : solvecrime.ca , or by phone at 1-800-222-8477 ( TIPS ) . <p> TORONTO -- Media reports say Ontario is replacing its chief medical officer of health more than a year into the COVID-19 pandemic . Multiple anonymous sources told the Toronto Star that Dr. Kieran Moore will replace Dr. David Williams as the province 's top doctor . Toronto 's CityNews issued a similar report . Moore currently heads up the Kingston , Frontenac , Lennox and Addington Public Health Unit . Representatives from the premier 's office , the Ministry of Health and the Kingston-area public health unit did not immediately respond to The Canadian Press 's requests for comment . Williams has faced much criticism over his handling of the COVID-19 pandemic . Ontario 's COVID-19 Long-Term Care Commission lambasted Williams ' response during the early days of the crisis . The government-appointed commission said Williams and the government repeatedly ignored the warnings of scientists , doctors , local public health officials and even the minister of long-term care . More recently , Premier Doug Ford has ignored Williams ' recommendation to reopen schools for the last month of the academic year , turning instead to dozens of public health experts , local health units and education stakeholders for advice . That marked a departure for the premier , who has previously voiced strong support for Williams and even asked him to delay his pending retirement to remain at the helm of the province 's pandemic response . Ford 's decision on whether to reopen classrooms is expected in the coming days . This report by The Canadian Press was first published May 29 , 2021 . The Canadian Press <p> We may be starting to see how the Yukon government 's agreement with the NDP will work in practice , and over an issue that 's been talked about for decades -- how mining should operate in the future . Coming into force shortly after the territorial election , the confidence and supply agreement is a compromise brokered between the Liberal government and the NDP . Since the Liberals failed to secure another majority , the agreement is means to prop up the the government , with the support beam coming in the form of the NDP caucus . One area of focus is developing and implementing new mining legislation during the term of that agreement , subject to consultation with First Nations . The Liberal/NDP agreement expires Jan. 31 , 2023 . This is where cracks could start to form . The Liberals and NDP have n't always seen eye-to-eye , historically speaking . If the two parties are to develop new mining legislation together , how will that play out ? And while the Liberal government is primarily driving this work , to what extent is the NDP helping steer the wheel ? There might have been an early indication this week . The fate of free entry ? NDP Leader Kate White told reporters Thursday that her party wants to do away with the free entry , a system that dates back to the Klondike Gold Rush era and enables miners to stake claims over vast expanses of land , with the exception of parks , certain settlement lands , and areas already staked . It 's a system that 's still upheld by Yukon 's mining laws . It 's a controversial issue , particularly for some First Nations . Carcross/Tagish First Nation , for instance , has called for the system to be abolished altogether . NDP Leader Kate White speaking with reporters earlier this week . The NDP wants to do away with the territory 's free entry system for mineral staking . ( Julien Gignac/CBC ) " We have been super clear that we believe free entry needs to end , " White said . " Free entry says that mineral development supersedes every other value , and we disagree with that . " The Liberal government has n't explicitly come out with its position on free entry since the election . Yukon Party MLA Scott Kent pressed the government on this front during question period Thursday . He asked whether the government supports the system . John Streicker , minister of Energy , Mines and Resources , dodged the question . ' Things have changed ' in the mining industry , said Yukon 's Energy , Mines and Resources Minister John Streicker . ( Julien Gignac/CBC ) " What I 'm going to support is the conversation , " he said . " For me , the Yukon Party seems to be stuck in the past , clinging to an old-school idea about mining ... Things have changed . If we want to attract investment , if we want mining to be sustainable for the long term , we need to work with First Nations , we need to be environmentally responsible , and we need to ensure that local communities benefit from resource development . " Asked by CBC if his party believes free entry should be changed or left the same , Yukon Party Leader Currie Dixon said he supports the system in its current form . Yukon Party Leader Currie Dixon . The Yukon Party is questioning the Yukon government 's plan to develop and implement new mining legislation with the NDP . ( Julien Gignac/CBC ) " Industry , both through the Chamber of Mines and various industry groups , have made representations both to the government and to the panel of Yukon 's Mineral Development Strategy about how important free entry is to the ongoing viability of the mining industry here in the Yukon , and that 's certainly a position that we support , " Dixon said . ' An aggressive timeline ' for new mining legislation In mid-April , the independent panel behind Yukon 's Mineral Development Strategy recommended the government bring into force new mining legislation and regulations by the end of 2025 . " Achieving such an aggressive timeline will require all involved to declare the work a priority and to dedicate the necessary resources , " the panel 's report states . Yukon Party MLAs sent a barrage of questions throughout the week regarding how the government intends to pull off implementing new mining legislation sooner than that -- in 16 months . Streicker told reporters the deadline is n't hard and fast , pointing out that any new mining legislation would be subject to consultation with First Nations , which could take time . He noted that a working group between First Nations and the government has been established and will set priorities . " We need to be working , and working together to try and move all of it forward , " Streicker said . " I think that the timeline is ambitious , but the timeline also acknowledges that there 's important work to happen , so let 's just get to work , is what I think . " Just how long it will take to implement new mining legislation could cause friction . White alluded to this earlier in the week . " If it takes Yukon government with a full force of drafters , researchers and others longer than 16 months to create legislation , I think we have a problem , " she said . " There was a commitment from all political parties during the election that we would get this done . " <p> The Nova Scotia government twice refused to pay for a special RCMP team established to respond to the public inquiry into the mass shootings that killed 22 people in April 2020 , newly released documents show . CBC News obtained correspondence between Mark Furey , who was the province 's justice minister at the time , and Assistant Commissioner Lee Bergerman , the commanding officer of the RCMP in Nova Scotia , through freedom of information laws . The records show that in the summer and fall of 2020 , Bergerman wrote to Furey asking for financial support to help pay for an " issues management team " being set up in the wake of the mass shootings . " As you may appreciate , public perception of the province fully funding the RCMP to respond to inquiry demands would not be favourable , " Furey wrote in a Dec. 11 letter to Bergerman . In April 2020 , a gunman disguised as a Mountie killed neighbours , acquaintances and strangers , including a pregnant woman and an RCMP officer . He travelled nearly 200 kilometres through rural Nova Scotia before being shot and killed by police at a gas station in Enfield , N.S. , about 13 hours after the violence started in Portapique , N.S. Twenty-two people died on April 18 and 19 . Top row from left : Gina Goulet , Dawn Gulenchyn , Jolene Oliver , Frank Gulenchyn , Sean McLeod , Alanna Jenkins . Second row : John Zahl , Lisa McCully , Joey Webber , Heidi Stevenson , Heather O'Brien and Jamie Blair . Third row from top : Kristen Beaton , Lillian Campbell , Joanne Thomas , Peter Bond , Tom Bagley and Greg Blair . Bottom row : Emily Tuck , Joy Bond , Corrie Ellison and Aaron Tuck . ( CBC ) Work on a joint federal and provincial inquiry is now underway . The mass casualty commission is examining the cause , context and circumstances of the massacre , including how police and various federal and provincial agencies responded . The RCMP has set up a team of officers , headed by Chief Supt. John Robin , tasked with collecting and passing along information required by the commission , said Cpl . Chris Marshall in a statement . He said part of the team 's role will involve supporting members of the RCMP who are called as witnesses . " The third objective is to identify areas within the police response to this tragedy that may require further examination and possible action by the RCMP , whether from a training , policy , procedural , resourcing or equipment perspective . All of these objectives are a work in progress , " Marshall said . 2 team members married to top Mounties Robin is married to the head of the Halifax District RCMP , Janis Gray . Another member of the team is Bergerman 's husband , Mike Butcher , a retired RCMP officer who is now contracted by the force . Both connections were first reported by Frank Magazine . Butcher also spent 5 ? years working for the provincial police in British Columbia , and has been contracted as a public servant by the RCMP since 2009 , said Cpl . Lisa Croteau . " He was seconded from the B.C. RCMP to the Nova Scotia RCMP project team in May 2021 because of his expertise in disclosure and policing , " said Croteau in a statement . The provincial Justice Department confirmed Thursday to CBC News that the province has not committed any funding for the team . The Mounties said it is paid for jointly by the Nova Scotia RCMP and RCMP headquarters . Mark Furey , Nova Scotia 's former justice minister , is shown on Jan 21 , 2020 . He announced the following month that he would not reoffer in the next provincial election . ( Craig Paisley/CBC ) The records obtained by CBC News show that initially Bergerman hoped the province would help pay for the additional staff . Over the summer , she sent a business case to Furey laying out the plans . But Furey felt the July 21 request veered too closely to asking for help paying for additional legal services . After seeking his own legal advice , Furey wrote to Bergerman that he determined there was " no contractual obligation for the province to financially support this proposal " given it already contributes to such services , according to an Oct. 28 letter . He advised Bergerman that should the team go ahead , " costs must be absorbed within your existing funding . " Collecting documents for inquiry When Bergerman responded Dec. 1 , the commanding officer disputed that the issues management team would be providing any legal services . She said the plan was for it to be made up of three RCMP officers , including a senior commissioned officer , and two public servants who would help organize information on the mass shooting investigation and documentation for the public inquiry , and liaise with the federal Department of Justice . This did not sway Furey . He declined , for a second time , to provide any funding in his Dec. 11 response . Marshall said since Bergerman 's requests , the name of the issues management team was changed to the " RCMP project team responsible for the response to the mass casualty commission " and that the number of people working with it in Ottawa and Nova Scotia will fluctuate depending on the workload . Questions about independence Robin , the leader of the new RCMP team , prompted the commission to reiterate in early May that it is independent and that no Mounties are working for the public inquiry itself . The chief superintendent was handing business cards listing his role as being with the mass casualty commission to some people who were impacted by the mass shootings . In response , Emily Hill , a lawyer who works for the commission , issued a public statement clarifying that its role included " reviewing the RCMP 's activities with respect to the mass casualty events and their aftermath . " " We do not take any instructions from the RCMP . We are asking the RCMP to remove the card to avoid further confusion , " Hill 's statement said . A memorial pays tribute to RCMP Const . Heidi Stevenson , a 23-year member of the force and mother of two , along the highway in Shubenacadie , N.S. , on April 21 , 2020 . ( Andrew Vaughan/The Canadian Press ) Marshall told CBC News at the time that Robin 's business cards were being reprinted . Croteau said Robin is also conducting an internal workplace safety investigation and was talking to community members as part of that . Families calling for answers Work on the commission examining the mass shootings started last fall and public hearings are expected to be held this coming fall , though no dates have been set . The inquiry came about after family members of the victims called for answers about how such a tragedy could occur . Many families have been critical of the amount of information the RCMP has shared with them and with the public . There was immense public outcry last July when the federal government announced it was launching an independent review . Within days , the public safety minister announced a public inquiry would go ahead after all . Unlike a review , a public inquiry has the power to summon witnesses and require them to give evidence under oath . Paid millions extra for RCMP in 2020 Bergerman 's requests for funding for the team responding to the public inquiry were not the only letters she sent to the provincial government asking for financial help . Nova Scotia contracts the RCMP for policing in many rural areas and under the provincial funding agreement , the minister of justice has the ability to approve additional spending in emergencies . Shortly after the mass shootings and through the summer , Furey agreed to pay for out-of-province officers to fill in for the 70 Mounties who took leave . In all , he approved $3.7 million to cover costs associated with bringing in those officers , but he declined to continue to approve the extra spending beyond the end of August . He also approved spending an additional $5.1 million on policing during the fisheries dispute in southwestern Nova Scotia between Oct. 14 , 2020 , and Dec. 19 , 2020 . Furey , a former RCMP officer , left his post as justice minister in February after announcing he would n't be reoffering in the next election . MORE TOP STORIES <p> Public Health is reporting 10 new cases of COVID-19 in New Brunswick . This brings the active case total in the province to 143 . Moncton region ( Zone 1 ) 5 cases : A person under 19 . A person between 20-29 . A person between 40-49 . Two people between 50-59 . Three of the cases are close contacts of previously identified cases and two are under investigation . Fredericton region ( Zone 3 ) 4 cases : A person between 20-29 . A person between 40-49 . Two people between 50-59 . Two of the cases are close contacts of previously identified cases and two are under investigation . Bathurst region ( Zone 6 ) 1 case : A person under 19 . The case is related to travel . There have been 2,191 confirmed cases of COVID-19 in the province throughout the pandemic with 2,004 recoveries and 43 deaths . Six people in the province are in hospital with COVID-19 , with two in intensive care . There 's also one case in hospital outside the province , also in intensive care . On Friday , 1,655 COVID-19 tests were conducted , bringing the pandemic testing total to 332,735 . More than 60% receive first vaccine Nearly 61% of eligible New Brunswickers have received at least one dose of the COVID-19 vaccine , according to Public Health . That 's 422,227 New Brunswickers over the age of 12 , or 60.9 per cent of the eligible population . It 's an increase of 8,863 from Friday 's tally . While more New Brunswickers are getting the jab , there are still appointments available at several vaccination clinics . Horizon Health tweeted on Saturday that it has appointments available at clinics next week in Pennfield , St. Stephen , Sussex , Woodstock , Oromocto and Grand Manan . On Saturday , Health Canada extended the expiry date of some AstraZenica vaccine by a month . Thousands of doses were set to expire on May 31 , but Health Canada said a review of " stability data " prompted the change . Those doses will now have an expiry date of July 1 . Around 2,700 of the vaccines originally set to expire at the end of May remain in New Brunswick , according to information provided by Public Health . New public exposures Public Health has also identified two new public exposures . Moncton region : Saint Pierre Catholic Church , 2000 Route 535 , Cocagne , on Sunday , May 23 , 11 a.m. service . Fredericton region : Capt . Submarine/Irving Oil , 305 Route 110 , West Florenceville , on Thursday , May 20 between 2:30 p.m. and 5 p.m . Previous public exposures Public Health previously reported the following potential public exposures : Moncton region : TD Bank , 525 Regis St. , Dieppe , on May 22 between 8:30 a.m. and 10:30 a.m . Moxie 's Grill and Bar , 10 Wyse St. , Moncton , on May 21 between 9:30 a.m. and 7 p.m . Tim Hortons , 170 St. George Blvd. , Moncton , on May 21 between 10 a.m. and 6:30 p.m. and May 23 between 8 a.m. and noon . A&amp;W , 6 Champlain St. , Dieppe , on May 21 between 4 p.m. and 8 p.m . Codiac Transpo City Bus #60 , on May 21 between 7:45 a.m. and 11 a.m . Codiac Transpo City Bus #51 , on May 21 between 7:15 p.m. and 10 p.m . Subway , 100 Morton Ave. , Moncton , on May 19 between 8:30 a.m. and 9:15 a.m . Extreme Windows , 80 Loftus St. , Moncton , on May 18 , May 19 , May 20 and May 21 between 7:30 a.m. and 4 p.m . Fredericton region : Costco , 25 Wayne Squibb Blvd. , on May 21 , between 6 p.m. and 8 p.m . The Head Shoppe , 1381 Regent St. , Fredericton , on May 21 between 4 p.m. and 6 p.m . Dollarama , 1033 Prospect St. , on May 21 , between 4 p.m. and 6 p.m . Giant Tiger , 1160 Smythe St. , on May 21 between 4 p.m. and 6 p.m . Atlantic Superstore , 116 Main St. , Fredericton on Wednesday , May 19 , between 5 p.m. and 8 p.m . Aldo Shoes , 1381 Regent St. , on May 19 , between 4 p.m. and 8 p.m . Le Ch ? teau , 1381 Regent St. , on May 19 , between 4 p.m. and 8 p.m . Lawtons Drugs , 1381 Regent St. , on May 19 and May 20 , between 3:30 p.m. and 5:30 p.m . Home Depot , 1450 Regent St. , Fredericton , Wednesday , May 19 , between 5 and 7 p.m . Fadi 's Pizza , 312 Main St. , Fredericton on Tuesday , May 18 , between noon and 2 p.m . Fredericton Regional Centre , 300 St. Mary 's St. , on Tuesday , May 18 , and Wednesday , May 19 , between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m . Petro Canada , 20 Royal Rd. , Fredericton , on Tuesday , May 18 , between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m . Fredericton YMCA daycare , 570 York St. , Fredericton , on Tuesday , May 18 , and Wednesday , May 19 Scholten 's , 325 Sunset Dr. , Fredericton , on May 17 between 4 and 8 p.m . Walmart , 125 Two Nations Crossing , Fredericton on Monday , May 17 , between 6 p.m. and 8 p.m . Dollarama , 125 Two Nations Crossing , Fredericton on Monday , May 17 , between 6 p.m. and 8 p.m . Sobeys Fast Fuel , 530 Brookside Dr. , Fredericton on Monday , May 17 , between 5 p.m. and 7 p.m . Walmart Supercentre , 1399 Regent St. , Fredericton on Sunday , May 16 , between 2 p.m. and 4 p.m . Shoppers Drug Mart , 1040 Prospect St. , Fredericton on Sunday , May 16 , between 8 p.m. and 10 p.m . Christ Church ( Parish ) Church , 245 Westmorland St. , Fredericton , Sunday , May 16 , 10:30 a.m. service . Hope City Church , 429 Clements Dr. , Fredericton , on Sunday , May 16 , 9:30 a.m. and 11:30 a.m. services . Atlantic Superstore , 116 Main St. , Fredericton , on May 16 between 9 and 11 a.m . Crowne Plaza Fredericton , 659 Queen St. , Fredericton , on May 15 between 3 p.m. and May 16 at noon . Riverbend Golf Club , 541 Route 628 , Durham Bridge , on May 15 , between 9 a.m. and 3 p.m . Penniac Ultramar , 22 Route 628 , on May 15 , between 9 and 11 a.m. and between 2 and 4 p.m . Fredericton Boyce Farmers Market , 665 George St. , on May 15 between 10 a.m. and noon Moores Clothing , 1150 Prospect St. , on May 15 , between 11 a.m. and noon . Home Depot , 1450 Regent St. , on May 15 , between noon and 1 p.m . Crowne Plaza Fredericton , 659 Queen St. , between 3 p.m. on Saturday , May 15 , and noon on Sunday , May 16 . Costco , 25 Wayne Squibb Blvd. , Fredericton on Saturday , May 15 , between 2 p.m. and 4 p.m . Castle Building Supplies , 24B Columbus St. , Perth-Andover , on May 14 between 7:30 a.m. and 5:30 p.m. , and May 20 between noon and 5:30 p.m . Arthurette General Store , 1450 Route 109 , Red Rapids , on May 11 between 7 a.m. and 9 p.m. , May 16 between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m. , and May 21 between 7 a.m. and 10 p.m . Save Easy , A-24 Columbus St. , Perth-Andover , on May 11 , May 14 , May 15 , and May 21 between 8 a.m. and 9 p.m . Edmundston region : Tim Hortons , 54 Canada St. , Saint-Quentin , on May 16 , between 3:30 and 5:30 p.m . Jean Coutu , 177 Victoria St. , on May 15 , between noon and 1 p.m . Bathurst region : Tim Hortons , 1420 Vanier Blvd. , Bathurst , on May 16 , between 5 and 7 p.m . What to do if you have a symptom People concerned they might have COVID-19 symptoms can take a self-assessment test online . Public Health says symptoms shown by people with COVID-19 have included : Fever above 38 C. New cough or worsening chronic cough . Sore throat . Runny nose . Headache . New onset of fatigue , muscle pain , diarrhea , loss of sense of taste or smell . Difficulty breathing . In children , symptoms have also included purple markings on the fingers and toes . People with one of those symptoms should : Stay at home . Call Tele-Care 811 or their doctor . Describe symptoms and travel history . Follow instructions . <p> Two long-term residents of Squamish , B.C. , who recently died hours apart of COVID-19 were honoured at a truck rally on Saturday . Margaret ( Gail ) Ross and Harvey ( Merrill ) Ross died 17 hours apart on May 5 and 6 , respectively , of complications from COVID-19 after a month-long battle with the disease , according to their obituary . Merrill was 76 and Gail was 73 . " This is not the way Merrill and Gail 's story was supposed to end , " said JR Transport owner Darren Doak , who organized the rally . " I miss them every day . " Beginning at 2 p.m . Saturday , Doak says , thousands of locals came out to watch about 90 trucks meander through Squamish and onto the Sea-to-Sky Highway . Hard worker and team mom Doak says he had known Merrill for 50 years from their shared careers in the trucking and logging industry . According to their obituary , Gail and Merrill Doak were married for 54 years and had moved to Squamish from Montague , P.E.I , in 1969 . Merrill was known to many for his " old-school work ethic . " " Merrill was an extremely hard worker , whether he was going to work for five minutes , one load , or whether it was going to be a 15-hour day , " Doak said , adding that Merrill worked right up until he became ill . His wife , Gail , was known in town as " the ultimate team mom " who volunteered with hockey , soccer , baseball and ringette youth teams in the community . She often travelled with her husband on his trips . Doak says the couple were sent to the Lions Gate Hospital in North Vancouver shortly after they fell ill . He does n't know if they had been vaccinated against COVID-19 . The pair leave behind four children and seven grandchildren . <p> Donna Adams would n't have guessed that her dog Pepper had it in her . But the 10-year-old German shepherd -- typically found lolling about outside Adams 's home in Rankin Inlet , Nunavut -- floored everybody by making a 70-kilometre journey along the remote Hudson Bay coast on her own , to track down her family in a distant community she 'd never been to . " We were elated . Like , I just could n't believe it , " Adams said , recalling the dog 's surprise arrival in Whale Cove . " She just likes to laze around . We used to get a lot of charges from the bylaw for having an untied dog , but even I think they gave up too , because she does n't go anywhere ! " Pepper 's big adventure earlier this month began on a sad note -- a death in Adams 's family , with a funeral to be held in Whale Cove , a smaller community down the Hudson Bay coast . Adams 's family planned to fly there from Rankin , but a cancelled flight prompted them to travel by snowmobile instead . They were getting ready to set out when Pepper started to act up . " She was really , really trying to follow us . She even hopped on the sled . We told her to get off and go inside , go home , " Adams recalled . " I think she felt the grief or the trauma that we were feeling . She just knew something was up , and she did n't want to leave us . " Adams and her family , with Pepper . ( Submitted by Donna Adams ) Eventually , Pepper was coaxed back home . One of Adams 's daughters was still there , at least until the next day when she would catch a rescheduled flight to meet her family in Whale Cove . Adams figures it was some time after her daughter left that that Pepper also skipped town . Her son had stayed behind in Rankin but was at work that day , and Adams 's husband came back later that night to find Pepper gone . " They looked everywhere . And she does n't move around anymore . She does n't leave , " Adams said . The family was distraught , and puzzled , but they were also dealing with a family tragedy and so finding Pepper was not their top priority . " We just let it go . We kind of just accepted that , well , she 's gone , " Adams said . ' The land freaks her out ' It was n't like Pepper to just take off , and not just because she 's usually a lazy homebody . According to Adams , the dog just does n't like being out of town . " The land freaks her out , like it 's too quiet , " Adams said . " There 's nothing around , she 's too big and slow to catch siksiks ground squirrels ... no people and nothing around -- that 's what bothers her . " Whale Cove is a small community on the Hudson Bay coast . Pepper would have travelled about 70 kilometres across the remote landscape from Rankin Inlet to find the community . ( CBC ) Adams and a couple of her kids stayed on in Whale Cove . They had been there for a few days when someone in town showed them a picture of a dog that had seemingly wandered into the remote village . It was Pepper . Somehow , the dog had swallowed her fears and travelled alone for days across the vast , silent landscape of ice and tundra to find her people . Whale Cove is pretty small , so it took Adams and her family about 10 minutes to track Pepper down after the dog was first spotted . " She looked a lot , like 10 years younger -- because she lost a lot of weight ! " Adams said , laughing . Pepper resting after the trek . ( Submitted by Donna Adams ) " I burst into tears the moment I saw her . I do n't think I 've ever experienced that . Just burst in tears of joy . " Adams said Pepper 's incredible journey was soon the talk of the town -- in Whale Cove , and back in Rankin Inlet . " Everybody was so happy to hear of the story . I mean , especially on her own , completely on her own ! And she 's never been taken to Whale Cove with us before , " Adams said . " We were all so excited , and relieved -- and very proud of her . " 
@@73059937 <h> Palestinian killed by Israeli troops in West Bank protest <p> Jewish residents look out from an apartment as police stop a car in the Arab-Jewish town of Lod , central Israel , Friday , May 28 , 2021 , a week after a cease-fire went into effect in the 11-day war between Gaza 's Hamas rulers and Israel . Lod and other mixed cities recently experienced ethnic clashes as groups of Arabs and Jews fought each other in the streets and torched cars , businesses and homes . ( AP Photo/David Goldman ) <p> May 28 , 2021 - 2:27 PM <p> JERUSALEM ( AP ) -- A Palestinian man was shot and killed by Israeli troops on Friday during a protest against settlement expansion in the Israeli-occupied West Bank , health officials said . <p> The protest erupted over a settlement outpost near the town of Beita -- one of dozens dotting hilltops in the West Bank in what Palestinians see as an ongoing Israeli land grab . <p> The Palestinian Health Ministry said a 26-year-old Palestinian man was killed by army fire and that five protesters were injured , including two by live fire . <p> @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the shooting . <p> The clash came at a time of heightened tensions following an 11-day war between Israel and the Islamic militant group Hamas , which rules the Gaza Strip . More than 250 people , the vast majority Palestinians , were killed in the war which ended a week ago . <p> During the fighting , Gaza militants fired more than 4,000 rockets at Israel , while Israel bombed hundreds of targets linked to militants in Gaza . <p> Travel back in time more than 10,000 years , and you 'll see giant mammoths roaming around the Thompson Okanagan . Evidence of two mammoth species , the woolly mammoth , and the Columbia mammoth , can be found at the Greater Vernon Museum and <p> B.C. Spot Prawn season is in full swing right now so do make sure to head to the docks to purchase some if you are on the coast or source some from your local fishmonger . Wild B.C. spot prawns are a delicacy known around the world for their 
@@73060172 <h> UN body asked to up scrutiny of Israel 's human rights record <p> Jamey Keaten <p> May 26 , 2021 - 3:49 AM <p> GENEVA ( AP ) -- Member states of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation are calling on the U.N . Human Rights Council to set up a permanent commission to report on human rights violations in Israel , Gaza and the West Bank . <p> The move comes in the wake of the latest surge in violence in the Israel-Palestinians conflict . If passed , it would mark an unprecedented level of scrutiny authorized by the U.N . ' s top human rights body . <p> The proposal , formally presented late Tuesday , comes ahead of a special session of the Geneva-based council on Thursday to address " the grave human rights situation " in Gaza , the West Bank and east Jerusalem . The meeting was sought by Pakistan , as the OIC 's coordinator . <p> The session at the 47-member-state rights body paves the way for a daylong debate over the recent deadly violence between Israelis and Palestinians in the Mideast conflict that has raged for decades . <p> A vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thursday 's session , which will be largely virtual . U.N . human rights chief Michelle Bachelet was set to address the meeting in person . <p> The draft resolution calls on the council to " urgently establish an ongoing independent , international commission of inquiry " appointed by the council president to investigate violations of international humanitarian and human rights law in Israel and Palestinian areas . <p> The commission would also investigate " all underlying root causes of recurrent tensions , instability and protraction of conflict " including discrimination and repression , the text said . <p> A commission of inquiry is the highest level of scrutiny that the council can authorize . Another COI , for example , has been regularly reporting on Syria 's war nearly since its inception a decade ago -- partially in hopes of collecting evidence that could be used in court one day . <p> Council spokesman Rolando Gomez said passage of the draft resolution would mark the first time that a commission of inquiry received a " continuing mandate . " <p> Israel -- backed at times by the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refused to cooperate with its investigators . Israel 's ambassador , Meirav Eilon Shahar , has called on member states to oppose Thursday 's meeting . <p> The special session is the 30th at the council , and the ninth on the issue of the " Occupied Palestinian Territories " alone -- the last was in May 2018 . The council 's most recent special session , on Myanmar , was held in February . <p> The United States , under President Donald Trump , quit the council in mid-2018 -- partially over his administration 's allegations that the council has an anti-Israel bias . President Joe Biden has returned the U.S. to participation , and the U.S. plans to seek a seat next year . <p> Travel back in time more than 10,000 years , and you 'll see giant mammoths roaming around the Thompson Okanagan . Evidence of two mammoth species , the woolly mammoth , and the Columbia mammoth , can be found at the Greater Vernon Museum and <p> B.C. Spot Prawn season is in full swing right now so do make sure to head to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coast or source some from your local fishmonger . Wild B.C. spot prawns are a delicacy known around the world for their 
@@52780681 <h> US general : As US scales back in Mideast , China may step in <p> May 23 , 2021 , 1:05 p.m. *4 min read <p> RIYADH , Saudi Arabia ( AP ) -- As the United States scales back its military presence across the Middle East to focus on great power competition with China and Russia , it risks giving those two countries a chance to fill the gap and expand their influence around the Gulf , the top U.S. commander for the region said Sunday . <p> While traveling through the Middle East over the past week , Marine Gen. Frank McKenzie , who heads U.S. Central Command , fielded a persistent question from the military and political leaders he met : Is the U.S. still committed to their country and the region , and what more support can they get . <p> From the dusty battlefields in Syria to the rocket-pummeled neighborhoods in Iraq and Saudi Arabia , they worry that America 's pivot to Asia means they will be left without the troops , ships , aircraft and other military aid they need to battle Iranian-backed militant groups attacking their people . <p> And if the U.S. is slow to respond , they may look elsewhere for help . <p> " The Middle East writ broadly is an area of intense competition between the great powers . And I think that as we adjust our posture in the region , Russia and China will be looking very closely to see if a vacuum opens that they can exploit , " McKenzie told reporters traveling with him . " I think they see the United States shifting posture to look at other parts of the world and they sense there may be an opportunity there . " <p> Speaking in his hotel room after meeting with Saudi officials , McKenzie said weapons sales would be one need that Moscow and Beijing could exploit . Russia , he said , tries to sell air defense systems and other weapons to whomever it can , and China has a long-term goal to expand its economic power and ultimately establish military bases in the region . <p> In the few short months since President Joe Biden took office , he has ordered the full withdrawal of U.S. troops from Afghanistan and begun to review America 's force presence in Iraq , Syria and around the globe . His administration is cutting U.S. military support for the Saudi-led offensive against Iranian-back Houthi rebels in Yemen , and the Pentagon has moved ships , forces and weapons systems out of other Middle East countries . <p> At the same time , however , Biden this month dispatched senior administration officials to the Gulf region to reassure nervous allies as the U.S. looks to reopen talks with Iran on the 2015 nuclear deal , which former President Donald Trump scrapped three years ago . <p> The effort to restart talks with Iran triggers worries in a number of Middle East nations who rely on the U.S. to maintain pressure on Tehran and its campaigns to fund and supply weapons to militant groups in the region . <p> But there is ongoing discussion within the Pentagon about sending more assets to the Pacific to fight a rising China . And U.S. military commanders around the globe , including McKenzie , may lose troops and resources as a result . Those could include warships such as the aircraft carrier now sitting in the Gulf , providing security for the Afghanistan withdrawal . <p> The Biden administration views China 's rapidly expanding economic influence and military might as America 's primary long-term security challenge . Officials believe the U.S. must be more ready to counter threats to Taiwan and China 's development of military outposts on manmade islands in the South China Sea . <p> Military commanders caution that China 's growing assertiveness is n't limited to Asia , noting that Beijing is aggressively seeking footholds in Africa , South America and the Middle East . <p> " I agree completely that China needs to be the pacing threat we orient on , " McKenzie said in the interview with reporters from The Associated Press and ABC News . " At the same time , we are a global power and we need to have a global outlook . And that means that you have the ability to consider the globe as a whole . " <p> In meetings Sunday , Saudi leaders were " very concerned " about the ongoing U.S. military posture review , McKenzie said . The kingdom is under almost daily bombardment from Houthi rebels with a variety of ballistic missiles , cruise missiles and small drones . And Saudi leaders rely on the U.S. to help them defend themselves . <p> McKenzie said his message to them was that the number of troops and weapons is not as important as the overall capability of the integrated U.S. and Saudi air and missile defense system arrayed around the country . <p> And more broadly , he said , that strategy of doing more in the region with less military presence may prevent China and Russia from cashing in on any U.S. void . <p> " I 'm not sure it 's actually going to turn out to be an opportunity for them when it 's all said and done , " he said . <p> The troop numbers may not be the same as the hundreds of thousands that were in the region five to seven years ago , he said , but the U.S. will have a presence in the region . <p> " I think we 're going to play a very smart game ... to leverage what we have , " he said . " The United States is the partner of choice . It 's only when that option is not open are countries going to hedge and seek other opportunities . " <h> Latest Stories <p> A teenager in Vancouver is sharing her story after a nurse accidentally gave her the Moderna COVID-19 vaccine , instead of Pfizer-BioNTech , which is the only one in Canada approved for children under 18 . Noora Alenezi , 13 , was so excited about getting her COVID-19 vaccine that she booked her appointment as soon as health officials approved the Pfizer vaccine for children aged 12 to 17 . But when she showed up to the Vancouver Convention Centre with her mother and brother for her appointment , the nurse who was about to administer her shot told her she was getting the Moderna vaccine . " I thought she knew better than us , " Noora Alenezi said . " I thought it got approved or something before we came . " ' It 's not a small mistake ' Noora and her mother , Faiezah Alenzi , say it was n't until the nurse was about to administer the same vaccine to her 14-year-old brother that she seemed to suddenly remember children should only get the Pfizer vaccine . They say the nurse and staff then scrambled , and apologized as they admitted the nurse had administered the wrong vaccine . The Vancouver Convention Centre is one of a few COVID-19 vaccination clinics set up around Vancouver . ( Enzo Zanatta/CBC news ) Faiezah says she realizes that mistakes happen , and she appreciates all the work that Vancouver Coastal Health is doing , but she thinks those administering the vaccine should be more careful . " I was really concerned , really upset , " she said . " It 's not a small mistake . " 11 similar mistakes In a written statement , Vancouver Coastal Health said Noora was n't the only teenager who got the wrong vaccine last week . Altogether , 12 children were given Moderna instead of Pfizer-BioNTech . The health authority said this past week was the first one that had teenagers attend vaccination clinics , and Moderna was the primary vaccine being offered at that time . Faiezah Alenezi said the nurse who administered her daughter 's vaccine quickly realized her mistake . ( Enzo Zanatta/CBC News ) VCH said although Moderna has yet to be approved for use in youth ages 12 to 17 in Canada , medical health officers do n't believe it 's harmful for those in that demographic . Still , the health authority says it has put additional practices in place to ensure the mistake does n't happen again . This includes new questions as part of the registration screening process , and Pfizer stations specifically for youth where possible . ' Our health is in their hands ' Dr. Brian Conway , medical director of the Vancouver Infectious Disease Centre , says there 's no biological reason why the Moderna vaccine would be unsafe for teens . " I would n't be terribly concerned about this error , " Conway said . " I think it 'll become the standard of care going forward . " Conway said although the Moderna study on the vaccine 's effectiveness for children has yet to be completed , preliminary results suggest it is safe and effective . For Noora and her mother , the reassurance is somewhat comforting but they would still like to see better processes in place to protect teenagers like her . " Our health is in their hands , and they should be more aware of who they 're giving the vaccine to , " Noora said . <p> Japan 's Naomi Osaka could be thrown out of the French Open if she continues to boycott post-match news conferences at the tournament , the board of Grand Slam tennis tournaments said on Sunday . Osaka , who was fined 15,000 dollars for skipping the news conference after her first-round victory at Roland Garros , could also face suspension from other Grand Slam tournaments , the board added . The four-times Grand Slam champion said earlier this week she would not face the media during the French Open , citing mental health reasons . <p> MEXICO CITY ( AP ) -- The notoriously violent Jalisco cartel has responded to Mexico 's " hugs , not bullets " policy with a policy of its own : The cartel kidnapped several members of an elite police force in the state of Guanajuato , tortured them to obtain names and addresses of fellow officers and is now hunting down and killing police at their homes , on their days off , in front of their families . It is a type of direct attack on officers seldom seen outside of the most gang-plagued nations of Central America and poses the most direct challenge yet to President Andr ? s Manuel L ? pez Obrador 's policy of avoiding violence and rejecting any war on the cartels . But the cartel has already declared war on the government , aiming to eradicate an elite state force known as the Tactical Group which the gang accuses of treating its members unfairly . " If you want war , you 'll get a war . We have already shown that we know where you are . We are coming for all of you , " reads a professionally printed banner signed by the cartel and hung on a building in Guanajuato in May . " For each member of our firm ( CJNG ) that you arrest , we are going to kill two of your Tacticals , wherever they are , at their homes , in their patrol vehicles , " the banner read , referring to the cartel by its Spanish initials . Officials in Guanajuato -- Mexico 's most violent state , where Jalisco is fighting local gangs backed by the rival Sinaloa cartel -- refused to comment on how many members of the elite group have been murdered so far . But state police publicly acknowledged the latest case , an officer who was kidnapped from his home on Thursday , killed and his body dumped on a highway . Guanajuato-based security analyst David Saucedo said there have been many cases . " A lot of them ( officers ) have decided to desert . They took their families , abandoned their homes and they are fleeing and in hiding , " Saucedo said . " The CJNG is hunting the elite police force of Guanajuato . " Numbers of victims are hard to come by , but Poplab , a news cooperative in Guanajuato , said at least seven police officers have been killed on their days off so far this year . In January , gunmen went to the home of a female state police officer , killed her husband , dragged her away , tortured her and dumped her bullet-ridden body . Guanajuato has had the highest number of police killed of any Mexican state since at least 2018 , according to Poplab . Between 2018 and May 12 , a total of 262 police have been killed , or an average of about 75 officers each year -- more than are killed by gunfire or other assaults on average each year in the entire United States , which has 50 times Guanajuato 's population . The problem in Guanajuato has gotten so bad that the state government published a special decree on May 17 to provide an unspecified amount of funding for protection mechanisms for police and prison officials . " Unfortunately , organized crime groups have shown up at the homes of police officers , which poses a threat and a greater risk of loss of life , not just for them , but for members of their families , " according to the decree . " They have been forced to quickly leave their homes and move , so that organized crimes groups can not find them , " it reads . State officials refused to describe the protection measures , or comment on whether officers were to be paid to rent new homes , or if there were plans to construct special secure housing compounds for them and their families . " This is an open war against the security forces of the state government , " Saucedo noted . L ? pez Obrador campaigned on trying to deescalate the drug conflict , describing a " hugs , not bullets " approach to tackle the root causes of crime . Since taking office in late 2018 , he has avoided openly confronting cartels , and even released one capo to avoid bloodshed , saying he preferred a long-range policy of addressing social problems like youth unemployment that contribute to gang membership . But former U.S. Ambassador Christopher Landau said in April that L ? pez Obrador views the fight against drug cartels " as a distraction ... So he has basically adopted an agenda of a pretty laissez-faire attitude towards them , which is pretty troubling to our government , obviously . " Mark Stevenson , The Associated Press <p> Ottawa police have identified the man shot to death early Sunday morning in the city 's east end , the fourth shooting death in the nation 's capital in the past five days . Police and emergency responders were called to the intersection of Cyrville and Meadowbrook roads at approximately 12:50 a.m. after getting reports of gunshots . CBC spoke with several neighbours of the strip mall where the shooting happened . They reported hearing between three and five gun shots just after 12:30 a.m . Police found 27-year-old Warsama Youssouf from Ottawa in a parking lot suffering from gunshot wounds . He was taken to hospital but was later declared dead . The homicide unit is investigating . A section of Meadowbrook Road was closed at 5:30 a.m. but has since reopened . Those with information about the investigation are asked to contact the homicide unit at 613-236-1222 ext. 5493 Police appeal for information On Friday evening , Ottawa police were called to Alta Vista Drive after two men were shot dead , with a third man taken to hospital with non-life-threatening injuries . Two days earlier , on Wednesday , police were called to Palmerston Drive following the shooting of a 22-year-old man . Police said Sunday night they were also investigating a shooting that occurred around 7:20 p.m. on Woodroffe Avenue . Paramedics told Radio-Canada that one person was taken to hospital with undisclosed injuries . There have now been seven homicides in Ottawa in 2021 . <p> TALLAHASSEE , Fla . ( AP ) -- As Florida Gov . Ron DeSantis struggled to contain the coronavirus pandemic , Democrats readied to pounce . The state 's economy was in tatters , infections and deaths were on the rise and there were doubts about the Republican 's plan to lead Florida out of crisis . Now that the pandemic appears to be waning and DeSantis is heading into his reelection campaign next year , he has emerged from the political uncertainty as one of the most prominent Republican governors and an early White House front-runner in 2024 among Donald Trump 's acolytes , if the former president does n't run again . As DeSantis ' national stature has risen , he has remained defiant in the face of continued attacks on his hard-line opposition to mask mandates and lockdowns . " Hold the line . Do n't back down , " he told a crowd at a party fundraiser in Pittsburgh on May 20 . " And in the state of Florida , with me as governor , I have only begun to fight . " That fight will happen soon , as he campaigns for a second term and pressure builds on Florida Democrats to regain their footing in a state that has swung toward Republicans for several election cycles . Unless they find a new formula , Democrats could find themselves shut out of statewide office for the first time since Reconstruction . " This is n't just one race -- this is two races in one , given how Ron DeSantis is trying to use a reelection win as a slingshot to then be the odds on favorite " for the GOP nomination in 2024 , said Fernand Amandi , a Democratic pollster in Miami . " If they manage to prevent him from getting reelected , they almost certainly eliminate any possibility of him running for president . " DeSantis won in a nail-biter three years ago against Democrat Andrew Gillum , and Democrats worry whether they can field a candidate able to win back the governor 's mansion for the first time since 1994 . U.S. Rep. Charlie Crist , a former Republican governor who is now a Democrat , announced his campaign for governor this month . Agriculture Commissioner Nikki Fried , the only Democrat currently holding statewide office , has teased a June 1 date to publicly announce whether she will run . Some Democrats had hoped U.S. Rep. Val Demings , who helped manage the first Trump impeachment and was considered as President Joe Biden 's running mate , would join the race . Instead , she is considering a run for the U.S. Senate seat now held by Republican Marco Rubio . Regardless of who gets in the Democratic contest , toppling DeSantis will be " a tall order , " said Ryan Tyson , a Tallahassee-based Republican pollster . " The Democrats fail to understand that the state of Florida is changing under their very noses . " Florida 's population continues to boom , but many of the state 's new residents are older and come from parts of the country friendlier toward Republicans . Before last November 's presidential election , Republicans had narrowed the registration gap with Democrats to about 117,000 . On Election Day four years earlier , Democrats had a 327,000 voter registration lead . Since then , Republicans have continued to gain -- with the Democratic advantage now barely over 100,000 . Both sides will try to nationalize the race , partly to draw support from big-money donors from outside the state . For DeSantis , it 's also about raising his national profile . That of course , probably will become a line of attack for Crist and Fried , who accuse DeSantis of being more interested in pursuing his political ambitions than in tackling the concerns of Floridians . " Just like our former president , he always takes credit but never takes responsibility , " Crist said when he announced his bid for governor . In a video hinting at her possible entry into the race , Fried called DeSantis an " authoritarian dictator . " Appealing to Trump supporters might be smart as the Republican Party deepens its allegiance to the former president , whose shadow will no doubt loom over high-profile races like the one about to unfold in Florida . During his Pittsburgh visit , DeSantis applauded Trump for recognizing the military and economic threats posed by China and sympathized with him over his battles against social media companies such as Twitter , which banned him from its platform . The governor is " definitely made efforts to to appeal to the Trump base . The disadvantage to that , of course , is that the former president is so polarizing , " said Kevin Wagner , a political scientist at Florida Atlantic University . " But in the state of Florida , where the former president did really well , appealing to his base of voters seems like a pretty prudent move . " DeSantis ' ambitions could become muddled if Trump runs in 2024 . That would force DeSantis and other hopefuls to wait it out or begin redefining themselves beyond Trump 's shadow . Democrats thought the pandemic would be a strong line of attack against DeSantis . In November , Floridians were about evenly divided about the governor 's handling of the pandemic , with 49% approving and 50% disapproving , according to AP VoteCast . In that same poll , 48% had a favorable opinion of DeSantis while 45% viewed him unfavorably . But with about 18 months before the November 2022 election , it remains to be seen how the pandemic might play out in the campaign . The pandemic has become a key talking point against what DeSantis called " the militant left . " " We 've saved millions of livelihoods from the brunt of lockdowns , " he said in Pittsburgh . " All I can say to any state that has not followed suit : Open your state , open your schools , take off these mask mandates , let people live and thrive . " While he spent his first years as Florida governor casting himself as a defender of the environment , including the state 's cherished Everglades and imperiled coastlines , and even as a booster for his state 's underpaid teachers , DeSantis has more recently taken a sharper turn to the right . During Florida 's just-completed legislative session , DeSantis successfully pushed for an " anti-riot " law that countered the Black Lives Matter movement . He won legislation that excoriated social media companies that , the governor charged , censor conservative thought . On a recent appearance on Fox News -- one of many -- DeSantis showcased a freshly signed law that tightens voting rules amid unproven claims among Trump followers that Trump was denied a second term because of election irregularities . " The governor 's priorities certainly got through , and that can only be good for him , " said Susie Wiles , a Republican strategist who helped Trump win Florida last year and continues to work for him . " What is good for him has proven to be good for the state , which in turn makes his fortunes good going into reelection next year . " Associated Press writer Hannah Fingerhut in Washington contributed to this report . Bobby Caina Calvan , The Associated Press <p> Montreal riot police dispersed a large crowd Saturday night in Old Montreal , where two people were injured when a fight broke out amid spontaneous celebrations of the end of Quebec 's curfew and a victory by the Habs . It was the second night in a row that large crowds flocked to the popular district , after restaurant terrasses were permitted to open Friday and the 9:30 p.m. curfew lifted . This time , two people were injured in an altercation just after midnight . An 18-year-old woman was shot in the foot and a 19-year-old man was stabbed in the upper body . Both were treated in hospital . Montreal police spokesperson Jean-Pierre Brabant said the woman reported not having been part of the fight itself . It was the second night in a row that revellers gathered in Old Montreal since restaurant terrasses were reopened and the curfew lifted . ( St ? phane Gr ? goire/Radio-Canada ) " We 're looking to find out what happened because so far we do n't have any arrests . We 'll be looking at security camera footage later today , " Brabant said . Brabant said after the fight , officers forced the revellers to leave Place Jacques-Cartier for safety reasons . <p> A state of emergency has been declared in Aklavik , N.W.T. , after water started rising over the road that leads to the hamlet 's dump , according to a statement issued by its mayor and council overnight . Residents would start being evacuated from their homes Sunday morning between 9:30 and 10:30 a.m. local time , the statement said . The remote community of roughly 600 people has been on flood watch for about a week and is the latest of several communities in the Northwest Territories to be affected by historic flooding on the Mackenzie River , caused by the spring breakup . The hamlet is on the bank of the Peel Channel , which is fed by the Mackenzie River further upstream . Mayor Andrew Charlie told CBC News on Sunday morning that water levels had risen to 16.2 metres -- the same height as the last significant flood in 2006 . That 's 1.1 metres below the highest record on file , according to the Northwest Territories government . Water has started to cover what Allen Kogiak describes as the hamlet 's ' back road . ' ( Submitted by Allen Kogiak ) " Water is still coming up at the moment , " he said . Residents will start being voluntarily evacuated to Inuvik -- located about 55 kilometres northeast of Aklavik -- by air , Charlie said . The two communities are connected only by ice road in the winter months . " I do n't believe everybody is going to leave , " the mayor said . " Most people want to stay here and protect what they have around their yards . " 4 planes sent for evacuation efforts Northwest Territories Premier Caroline Cochrane tweeted Sunday afternoon that the government is helping with a full evacuation . " Four planes are making trips into the community to evacuate residents , starting with elders and families and children . Evacuees will stay at the Inuvik arena , and work is underway around recovery plans and financial support for those impacted , " she wrote . Cochrane said an update would be provided on Monday and that " right now , our officials are focused on the safety of our residents . " ' Hopeful but anxious ' Allen Kogiak , who lives in Aklavik , said he does n't plan to leave unless things get much worse . But his mother , who is in her 80s , is being evacuated . " Heading out probably on one of the first flights , I guess , " he said . " I 'm feeling hopeful but anxious at the same time , " Kogiak said , adding it 's the third time he 's going through a flood . " This flood is kind of different for me this year , it 's unlike other floods , " he said . " Everybody 's worried " but calm . Fuel and sewer tanks cause for concern The mayor said water has breached a few roads in the community , including access to the dump and sewage lagoon . However , the water and sewer trucks were still in service Sunday morning . " They 'll go until they feel it 's unsafe to do services in the community , " he said . Charlie said most homes have been built on platforms that are lifted off the ground because of past floods . " There 's a few homes that water has come up to ... their stairs and whatnot . They still have access to their house , " he said . The Hamlet of Aklavik rests on the west side of a bend in the Peel Channel in the Inuvik region of the N.W.T. ( Kate Kyle/CBC ) " The danger is our fuel tanks , chances of them toppling over . We have a few sewer tanks in the ground , sitting on the ground , they 'll be able to float around , bust up people 's houses . " The other big concern , he said , is if water floods the hamlet 's airstrip . " If that ever goes under water , there 's no way a plane would land in Aklavik , so it would make it more difficult . " About 26 elders and vulnerable people had already been evacuated from their homes as of Friday evening . " Everybody is on high alert , " Charlie said . " But other than that , it 's something we go through annually and we continue to do that . We 're prepared . " <p> Two recent decisions by Canada 's telecom regulator are freezing out competition in the country 's highly concentrated industry , critics argue , making it even harder to bring down prices for mobile and internet service . For years , Canadian consumers have complained about high cellular bills , which rank among the steepest in the world , and Prime Minister Justin Trudeau 's Liberal government has threatened to take action if the providers failed to cut bills by 25% . On Thursday the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission ( CRTC ) ruled that it would not significantly lower the rates that small companies must pay to access the high-speed broadband networks of larger rivals , including BCE Inc , Telus Corp and Rogers Communications Inc , known as the Big Three . <p> PORTO , Portugal ( AP ) -- N'Golo Kante approached the winner 's podium and sized up the gleaming European Cup that was almost as big as him . The diminutive midfielder had seen jubilant teammates before him give the trophy a kiss as they walked by . Kante , a touch nervous maybe , gave it a little pat and shuffled on . Humble to the end , Kante moved a step closer to winning everything there is to win in football by adding the Champions League with Chelsea on Saturday . A Premier League winner in 2016 and ' 17 , with Leicester then Chelsea . A World Cup winner in 2018 with France . A Europa League winner in 2019 . Now , a European champion . Win the European Championship with France across the next six weeks and Kante will have done the lot . All with that beaming smile on his face . Asked if Kante is the best player in the world , Chelsea captain Cesar Azpilicueta was in no doubt : " It 's straightforward , yes . " At the moment , it 's hard to argue . Kante was voted man of the match by UEFA 's technical observers in both legs of Chelsea 's semifinal against Real Madrid , and again in the 1-0 win over Manchester City in the final . He made 10 ball recoveries , more than any other player . He won all three tackles he attempted -- including a key one to snuff out Kevin De Bruyne as he approached Chelsea 's box early in the second half . Then there were his surging runs forward , leading the counterattack . In a match where so much focus was on City manager Pep Guardiola 's decision to not play a specialist defensive midfielder , Kante produced a clinic in that position once again . " He does everything , " Chelsea manager Thomas Tuchel said . " The energy he brings , I do n't know how many ball recoveries today . He covered so much ground . " It 's special to have him and when we do n't have him we missed him . After winning the World Cup , the Champions League , he 's so humble in his position . " Tuchel has said before that he was bestowed a gift when he arrived at Chelsea in January to be handed a squad containing Kante . " I think N'Golo fits into any manager 's plans on the planet , " said Tuchel , the former Paris Saint-Germain and Borussia Dortmund manager . " I was desperate to have him in my teams in the past . " Now he has him and is utilizing him perfectly . It will not be a surprise to see Kante voted the FIFA player of the year for the first time , especially if he helps France to win the Euros . He has already won the biggest personal award in English soccer , the PFA player of the year in 2016 on the back of Leicester 's title win . At Leicester , the story goes , he used to run to training while others arrived in their flashy cars and kept going to the same hairdresser , paying 10 pounds for a trim . That humble side of Kante has n't changed , even as he adds Champions League winner to his lengthy list of accomplishments . More AP soccer : https : //apnews.com/hub/soccer and https : //twitter.com/APSports Steve Douglas is at https : //twitter.com/sdouglas80 Steve Douglas , The Associated Press <p> British Prime Minister Boris Johnson is hopeful that Canada and the U.K. can conclude a permanent deal on how much British cheese can enter Canada , just one part of a comprehensive free-trade deal set to be negotiated this fall . Reluctance to " allow too much British cheese to tempt the palates of Canadians " was one sticking point during negotiations over a transitional deal last year , Johnson told CBC News chief political correspondent Rosemary Barton in an exclusive Canadian interview airing Sunday on Rosemary Barton Live . " What 's really needed now is more affordable , high-quality British cheese in Canada , and I hope that we can do a deal to allow that , " Johnson said . Canada and the United Kingdom completed a transitional trade agreement in November , necessitated by Britain 's withdrawal from the European Union . But the agreement did not include a lasting deal on market access for British cheese producers , instead temporarily maintaining the system established under Canada 's free-trade agreement with the European Union . Johnson speaks with the CBC 's Barton on Friday from 10 Downing Street in London , his official residence . ( Adrian Di Virgilio/CBC ) Access to Canada 's supply-managed dairy market has been a controversial issue in a slew of trade agreements concluded by the federal government in recent years , including the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement and the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada and the European Union . " We were very concerned that dairy might be implicated in that , but we are pleased to see that the government has excluded dairy imports in that particular trade agreement . Now we know that it 's an interim agreement that is renewed in three years . That gives them time to negotiate , " Dairy Farmers of Canada vice-president David Wiens said after the Canada-U.K. deal was signed in November 2020 . Around the same time , an adviser for the National Farmers ' Union in Britain said that " a U.K. priority in these negotiations should be to secure greater access for our cheese producers . " Johnson pointed to his procurement of Canadian-made " big burly bicycles " -- referring to Montreal-based Bixi bikes -- when he was mayor of London as proof of his free-trade bona fides . ' We were the beginners of the crime ' The prime minister also discussed the issue of co-operation in the fight against climate change , noting he was pleased with Canada 's emissions reductions targets , but " I 'm not saying you could n't go further . " The U.K. has an aggressive emissions reduction target for 2030 of 68 per cent below 1990 levels , compared with Canada 's lower target of between 40 and 45 per cent below 2005 levels . Johnson highlighted a push by his government to secure $100 billion US per year from rich countries to direct toward climate action in developing nations . " After all , we in the U.K. , I 'm afraid to say we were the first . We were the beginners of the crime , " Johnson said , referring to Britain 's early industrialization and related hydrocarbon emissions . " We owe it to developing countries to support them now in accelerating their move to net-zero . It 's not fair otherwise , and I think Justin Trudeau totally gets that , " he said . Johnson repeatedly said his government and that of Trudeau were in " harmony " on the issue of climate change . You can watch full episodes of Rosemary Barton Live on CBC Gem , the CBC 's streaming service . <p> It 's going to be a long road to a normal life for some of the 77 dogs taken from a property in Cape Breton in mid-April , some of whom are receiving treatment at the P.E.I. Humane Society . The Nova Scotia SPCA was overwhelmed with the number of dogs , and asked the P.E.I. organization for help -- it took in 14 of them . Many of the dogs are in fine shape physically , but are highly under-socialized . They are generally the same shape and size , a cross between a cattle dog and sheep dog , just a little larger than one of P.E.I. 's ubiquitous foxes . " They 're a little bit more shut down , they do n't necessarily understand the human contact , they do n't understand leashes , " Samantha Wojack , who 's a trainer funded by the Atlantic Veterinary College at UPEI in Charlottetown where she is also a third-year vet student . " Everything is new to them and everything is a change , so we kind of have to take steps with them to help them realize it 's not such a bad thing , " she said . ' How to be a dog ' Some of them do n't like to be touched or are scared of other dogs barking or everyday sounds . Nemo , rescued from a hoarding situation in Cape Breton in April , has a rehabilitation session with trainer Samantha Wojack at the P.E.I. Humane Society this week . ( Sara Fraser/CBC ) Wojack leads Nemo from his kennel and sits on the floor with him in a quiet room . At first his tail is between his legs and his heads pivots uneasily , taking in the new surroundings . She talks quietly to him while handing him endless treats , which he tentatively nibbles from her hand . She takes her lead from the little dog , who gradually brightens up . He sniffs at the toys she gently presents to him . He is not much interested -- he does n't understand what toys are . " For a lot of these guys , it 's ' how to be a dog that interacts with humans ' ... they do n't know what a chin rub is , they do n't know what this hand is coming out at them is , and it 's all really new and scary . " " All of them came in with their own set of issues , " said Ashley MacLeod , the shelter 's development and communications co-ordinator . The dogs had been housed outside , she said , so the first hurdle was simply getting them accustomed to being indoors . When they arrived , some of the dogs simply wanted to curl up and be left alone and did n't even want to eat , she said , and others were protective of the other dogs , some of whom are siblings . Even when they leave us , they 're still going to need time and attention and love and work . -- Samantha Wojack " Not necessarily aggressive , but just more so watching out for their sibling because their sibling is so unconfident , " said Wojack . The shelter has worked with an expert at the AVC to put the dogs on anti-anxiety medications , which could be a lifetime thing for them , Wojack said . " One of the biggest things that hinders learning with dogs is anxiety , " she said , so the medication allows them to learn what they need . Wojack said it 's a delicate line between encouraging the dogs to learn new things , and over-stressing them by forcing them to do too much at once . What is a doorbell ? Of the 14 dogs , three adapted quickly to humans and have already been adopted . Nine are in foster homes preparing for adoption . Nemo and Rudy are still at the shelter in Charlottetown , learning more before they can go to a foster home . Nemo needs to learn how to walk on a leash and how to be with people . ( Sara Fraser/CBC ) " For some of them , it could be months . And I think it 's important for people who want to adopt these dogs to know that even when they leave us , they 're still going to need time and attention and love and work , " Wojack said , adding it could be a year or longer before some of the dogs fully adapt . " Potty training is a new thing . Sitting on the couch next to you is a new thing ... we have to take everything slow . " A lot of these guys can be a big flight risk , " she said , so need to learn to walk on a leash and not run away if they 're not leashed . Rudy is even more withdrawn than his brother Nemo . Rudy 's coat is black and white , long and fluffy -- he 's handsome . He walks stiffly and hunched over , his eyes darting around for danger . Like Nemo , he loosens up a bit with a quiet floor play session with Wojack , with plenty of treats . He goes home on weekends with one of the shelter staffers , but he still recoils from human touch . We really do n't believe any dog is too far gone to rehabilitate . -- Ashley MacLeod Most of the dogs are doing very well in foster care , which Wojack said is the best place for them before adoption . " They get to be in the home environment , they get to learn what a doorbell is , " she said . " They 're making leaps and bounds . " She said the society is grateful for the patient foster parents who are working with the dogs , adding the society always needs more foster homes . Never too far gone Dogs surrendered to the shelter are rarely euthanized , MacLeod said . Rudy , Nemo 's brother , is even more tentative , and does not really enjoy walking outside . ( Sara Fraser/CBC ) " We really do n't believe any dog is too far gone to rehabilitate , " she said . Even some of the most withdrawn dogs from Cape Breton are coming out of their shells and learning to trust people , she said . She said she is " tremendously proud " of the dogs and the staff who have been working hard with them . " It melts my heart , " MacLeod said . " It 's really , really rewarding , " Wojack added . The dogs will be made available for adoption through the P.E.I. Humane Society 's website -- MacLeod asks those interested to be patient , as the dogs will be ready " in their own time . " Rebel is now in foster care and will be put up for adoption when she is properly socialized . ( P.E.I. Humane Society ) More from CBC P.E.I. <p> KAMLOOPS , B.C. -- A First Nations teacher says the discovery of the remains of 215 children buried at the site of a former residential school in British Columbia is a triggering event for students who regularly learn about the history of wrongs against Indigenous people . Rick Joe said a provincewide kindergarten-to-Grade 12 curriculum includes lessons on everything from respect for First Nations culture to the legacy of residential schools and missing and murdered Indigenous women and girls , so students hearing about the remains found last week in Kamloops will need support . " This is very triggering . I have been asking for our school counsellors , for administrators and for youth care workers to take that extra time to check in on the Indigenous members , " he said Sunday . Joe is particularly concerned about First Nations foster children who are overrepresented in the child welfare system and include those whose families were forcibly taken to residential schools like the one in Kamloops , the largest such facility in Canada until 1969 , when its operations were transferred from the Catholic Church to the federal government . The facility was then run as a day school until it was closed in 1978 . Joe , who is a high school teacher in Chilliwack and works with First Nations students , said he has seen the sadness of generations of racism turned into anger among those he mentors . He said young students will have to contend with intergenerational trauma , for which they 'll need support in coming days as more details emerge about the buried children who were believed to be as young as age three . Joe was at a previously scheduled meeting of teachers on Saturday when the discovery was being discussed , and said he knew he had to call for some kind of action by educators to raise awareness of the pain inflicted on Indigenous Peoples . " Everyone 's going to hurt , not just First Nations or Aboriginal children , " he said . He made a motion at a scheduled meeting of educators on Saturday that teachers wear orange and gather to walk into their schools together at the start of each day this week and that flags be lowered to half mast . Teri Mooring , president of the B.C. Teachers ' Federation , said the union endorsed the call and teachers will be taking action to show students there needs be a response to the heart-wrenching discovery . Mooring said school administrators and support staff should also be included in sensitivity training when it comes biases that lead to racism , which is part of the education system , the same as in other parts of society . She said the teachers ' collective agreement includes a move to work toward increasing hiring of Indigenous teachers as universities offer more education programs for those looking to enter teaching as a career . Chief Rosanne Casimir of the Tk'eml ? ps te Secw ? pemc First Nation has said the discovery in Kamloops was confirmed with the help of ground-penetrating radar and that more bodies may be found because the entire school grounds have not yet been searched . Eric Simons , a PhD student in anthropology at the University of British Columbia , said the radar would have identified 215 grave shafts , not actual bodies , as well as changes in the soil , with some of it being more compressed . Simons said he 's been working with a First Nation at the site of a residential school on Penelakut Island where children 's remains are believed to have been buried between 1890 and 1975 , when the facility was closed . Much more work is left to be done at the site on one of the Gulf Islands in B.C. , he said of the island previously known as Kuper Island , before it was renamed about a decade ago in honour of the Penelakut First Nation . It 's hard to say what next steps will be taken to try and identify remains at the former residential school in Kamloops , and each First Nation would decide on how to deal with the burial site depending on their cultural protocols , Simon said . The flag at Vancouver city hall and park board facilities was lowered Sunday to half-mast , as were flags in various other communities and on federal and provincial buildings . Mayor Kennedy Stewart said he would be speaking with the province 's Indigenous Relations and Reconciliation Minister on Sunday evening to discuss how the city and B.C. could work together to " advance reconciliation and truly begin to reckon with the full history of genocide in Canada . " " The legacy of this violence remains with us to this day , and it is incumbent upon all non-Indigenous Canadians to not only atone for this legacy but also help with the hard work of reconciliation , " he said in a statement . The Ministry of Indigenous Relations and Reconciliation said B.C. residents are mourning alongside the Secw ? pemc and all families impacted by residential schools . " In responding to this situation , the province is taking our lead from the Tk'eml ? ps te Secw ? pemc . We offer them our full support , " the ministry said in a statement . This report by The Canadian Press was first published May 30 , 2021. -- By Camille Bains in Vancouver The Canadian Press <p> In Alberta 's Pigeon Lake , cabins and cars are blanketed in quivering clumps . The midges have taken over in swarms of almost biblical proportions and unlike anything some longtime residents say they 've ever seen . " You ca n't even go outside , " said Allan Eliasson , who said the non-biting midges are the largest seasonal swarms he has seen in his two decades living near the central Alberta hamlet of Mulhurst . " It 's just so annoying out there . It 's overwhelming . It 's like a horror movie out there . " Albertans looking to get away to a lakeside cabin or camping spot might be in for a rude surprise . Lake flies are hatching en masse around Pigeon Lake , about 100 kilometres southwest of Edmonton this week . The insect invasion may be a nuisance for some on a summer-like weekend , but others see it as a stunning natural phenomenon . With over 2,000 species in North America and over 600 in the Edmonton area alone , the symphony of midges is a sweet sound to an entomologist 's ear . " This is wonderful opportunity to see what great biodiversity we have , " said Janet Sperling , entomologist and postdoctoral researcher at the University of Alberta . Entomologist Janet Sperling says the midges are a sign of a healthy lake . ( Submitted by Janet Sperling ) The adults live for only a few days , dying shortly after mating . The swarming , which started about 10 days ago , will not likely last for much longer . Most residents just call these non-biting midges annoying . But Sperling , who expects the swarms to die off in the coming days , hopes they might attract more curiosity than contempt . She says it 's likely spring conditions were primed for the insects to surface from the lake en masse . The insects drive the local ecosystem , feeding fish and birds with their abundance a sign of a healthy lake , Sperling added . " It 's just basically showing us that it 's a clean lake , " Sperling said . " And I 'm not sure if you can hear all the birds but the birds that eat insects are just having a great time . They just open their mouth , fly along and they 've got themselves a whole collection of insects to eat . " Some people go to the Serengeti and they want to see zebras and wildebeest , " Sperling added . " But as an entomologist I do n't have to go anywhere , I just have to go into my own backyard and see this incredible number of non-biting midges . " Eggs are laid on the lake top with larvae feeding on tiny lake bed particles over the winter . Sperling says the size of this spring swarm is likely a matter of timing , with conditions rife for pupae to emerge over a few days , rather than several weeks . With insect appreciation day on June 8 , Sperling says she hopes what might at first glance appear nightmarish , could inspire dreams of entomology for the next generation of curious insect appreciators . <p> OTTAWA -- When Mahmoud Khalaf 's wife and two children travelled from Canada to visit extended family in the Gaza Strip in April , they could n't imagine they would end up stranded there during a deadly war between Israel and Hamas . Khalaf , an electrical engineer in London , Ont. , said his wife took their five-year-old and two-year-old to visit family for the first time in seven years and wound up living through the horrors of the bombardment of Gaza . " They have never experienced something like that , " he said . " For my kids , it was something very difficult and hard to understand what 's going on , especially coming from an environment where they never felt like they might die . " Last week , a ceasefire ended the 11-day war that left hundreds of people dead and deteriorated Gaza 's already weakened infrastructure . The Gaza Health Ministry said at least 230 Palestinians died , including 65 children . Twelve people in Israel , including a five-year-old and 16-year-old , were killed . Khalaf 's wife and children are among dozens of Canadians currently in Gaza , which has been under blockade since 2007 . The main point of exit is through Egypt , but only a limited number of people are allowed to leave at a time and they must apply weeks in advance . He and other Canadian residents with families in Gaza fear more bloodshed and are calling on the federal government to urgently help their loved ones evacuate . " As a government , they should be taking care of their people , " said Khalaf . " Right ? I mean , that 's the government 's job . " Global Affairs Canada did n't answer questions on whether the department is planning to evacuate Canadians from the Gaza Strip . Department spokeswoman Patricia Skinner said consular services are being provided through the Canadian representative office to the Palestinian Authority in Ramallah . " Global Affairs Canada has been advising Canadians to avoid all travel to the Gaza Strip due to continuing conflict , the possible resumption of armed hostilities , and the difficulties to leave the area since October 2000 , " she said . There are 160 Canadians in the Gaza Strip currently registered in a federal database of Canadians abroad , but since registration is voluntary , the number is likely higher . Khalaf said his five-year-old son who was born in Canada could n't understand the situation and the reasons behind the bombing in Gaza . " The questions come up : ' What 's happening ? Why is this happening ? Is this happening in Canada ? Is this happening everywhere , or is it just here ? ' " he said . He could hear the explosions when he called or FaceTimed his wife and kids , he said . " Sometimes it 's really close . When it is close you see ( my son ) jumping , like he would be jumping from wherever he is right into his mom 's arms just because he 's terrified , " he said . " That in itself , being so far away from them , was extremely difficult and extremely painful at the same time . " The situation has also impacted asylum seekers and more recent immigrants whose families are still in Gaza . Abdallah Alhamadni received refugee status in December and works as an emergency responder with a medical transportation company in Mississauga , Ont. , where he transfers people infected with COVID-19 from their homes or long-term care facilities to hospitals . He has applied for permanent residency for himself and his family members and has contacted the Immigration Department several times asking them to expedite the process , he said . " My family , they are under huge stress all the time ( while ) they are waiting , " he said . Alhamadni is living in Canada with the daily risk of contracting COVID-19 and becoming very sick because he has chronic high blood pressure and diabetes , he said . Meanwhile , he fears for his children 's lives in Gaza . " I was terrified something could happen to them , especially ( with the bombardment of ) houses very close to where they are living . " Alhamadni and a group of parents with children in Gaza are working to bring attention to their situation . They have contacted the federal government and several Members of Parliament and will start a petition to ask for the evacuation of their families , he said . The government should give the families temporary visas while their permanent residency applications are being processed or fast-track the applications , Alhamadni said . He also contacted the Canadian representative office to the Palestinian Authority in Ramallah , which he said told him it would let him know if an evacuation of families is being planned . " There are no real promises they will bring them here to Canada , " he said . " We are lost . We do n't know what to do . " The Immigration Department did not say whether it planned to evacuate families of people living in Canada from the Gaza Strip . It said it was unable to comment on individual cases for privacy reasons but it is aware of the situation of resettled refugees ' dependants who remain in Gaza and it is monitoring the situation . Global migration has been upended by the pandemic , but the department has prioritized urgent protection cases , vulnerable people and those performing essential services , it said . Sammar Mohammed is another member of the group of parents working to bring children to Canada . She has been living with her two daughters in Windsor , Ont. , since 2019 while her husband and her two other daughters are still in Gaza . She is waiting for their permanent residency applications to be processed so the rest of her family can join her in Canada . " This is our issue and our pain -- the long processing time , " she said . Mohammed used to do video calls with her daughters , but now they either lose internet or power , she said . Her husband is a journalist with a local TV station whose building was destroyed in an Israeli airstrike , she added , and a classmate of her 13-year-old daughter was killed during the war . She said there are serious consequences for her loved ones as they continue to wait , especially with a fragile ceasefire that she believes could end at any moment . " If they survived this war , God knows what will happen during the next offences on Gaza . " This report was first published by The Canadian Press on May 30 , 2021. --- This story was produced with the financial assistance of the Facebook and Canadian Press News Fellowship . Maan Alhmidi , The Canadian Press <p> BANGKOK ( AP ) -- The Ukrainian ambassador to Thailand collapsed and died on Sunday while on a resort island with his family , authorities said . Andrii Beshta , 44 , was declared dead on Lipe Island in southern Satun province , Gov . Ekkarat Leesen told The Associated Press . Police quoted his teenage son , who was staying in the same hotel room , as saying his father vomited and fainted early Sunday . He said he was feeling fine before . Police said they suspect he may have suffered a heart failure . Leesen said the body was sent to the police hospital for an autopsy . Beshta had assumed the post of ambassador in January 2016 . He is survived by his wife , daughter and two sons , according to a bio on the embassy 's website . The Associated Press <p> Recent developments : Ottawa reported 52 new COVID-19 cases and two more deaths Sunday . Kingston 's top doctor will replace Dr. David Williams as Ontario 's chief medical officer of health . What 's the latest ? Another 52 COVID-19 cases were confirmed Sunday by Ottawa Public Health ( OPH ) as various pandemic indicators continue their gradual decline . Another two deaths were also recorded . In western Quebec , health officials reported another 17 cases , while zero cases were recorded in the Kingston , Ont. , area . Dr. David Williams is retiring as Ontario 's chief medical officer of health . He 'll be replaced by Dr. Kieran Moore , the medical officer of health for Kingston , Frontenac and Lennox &amp; Addington Public Health . The Ontario government is extending its ban on non-essential travel across its land borders with Quebec and Manitoba until June 16 . Residents of an Old Ottawa South street have come together to save a massive boulder unearthed during recent infrastructure work -- in part because the unexpected discovery has brought them all back together during the pandemic . How many cases are there ? The region is coming down from a record-breaking peak of the pandemic 's third wave , one that has included more dangerous coronavirus variants . As of Sunday , 27,019 Ottawa residents have tested positive for COVID-19 . There are 709 known active cases , 25,741 resolved cases and 569 deaths . Public health officials have reported close to 49,100 COVID-19 cases across eastern Ontario and western Quebec , including more than 47,000 resolved cases . Elsewhere in eastern Ontario , 185 people have died . In western Quebec , the death toll is 214 . Akwesasne has had nearly 700 residents test positive , with four known active cases , and 10 deaths between its northern and southern sections . Kitigan Zibi has had 34 cases . Tyendinaga Mohawk Territory has had 11 , with one death . Pikwakanagan has n't had any . The transfer of COVID-19 patients from other regions to Ottawa hospitals continues . As of Friday , there were 21 COVID-19 patients from other communities in Ottawa ICUs . Some patients are even coming from Manitoba . CBC Ottawa is profiling those who 've died of COVID-19 . If you 'd like to share your loved one 's story , please get in touch . What can I do ? Eastern Ontario : Ontario is under a stay-at-home order until at least Wednesday . Its reopening plan leans on rates of spread and vaccination ; the province plans to take the next step in mid-June . Many closed outdoor recreation venues can now reopen . Ontario 's outdoor distanced gathering limit has now risen to five people , including people from different households . Most non-essential businesses can only offer curbside pickup . Access to malls is restricted and big-box stores can only sell essential items . Gyms and personal care services are closed , while restaurants are only available for takeout and delivery . Ontario has moved to online learning . Daycares remain open and summer camps should eventually open as well . Officers in Ontario have the power to stop and question people if they believe they 've gathered illegally . Local health units and communities can also set their own rules , as Ottawa is doing around playgrounds and the Belleville area is doing for the agriculture industry . Western Quebec Western Quebec is under red zone rules . People can eat outside at restaurants . Outdoor gatherings of up to eight people are also allowed , as is travel throughout the province . As many as 2,500 people can gather in a large theatre or arena . There is no longer a curfew . More rules lift on Monday , allowing indoor dining and gyms to reopen . Non-essential travel is not allowed between Ontario and Quebec . Police checkpoints are not running 24/7 on either end . Distancing and isolating The novel coronavirus primarily spreads through droplets that can hang in the air . People can be contagious without symptoms , even after getting a vaccine . Coronavirus variants of concern are more contagious and are now established . This means it is important to take precautions now and in the future like staying home while sick -- and getting help with costs if needed -- keeping hands and surfaces clean and maintaining distance from anyone you do n't live with , even with a mask on . A young man and woman wait for the lights to cross at the intersection of Montreal and North River roads in Ottawa on May 28 , 2021 . ( Trevor Pritchard/CBC ) Masks , preferably ones that fit snugly and have three layers , are mandatory in indoor public settings in Ontario and Quebec . OPH says residents should wear masks outside their homes whenever possible . People have to show proof of a recent negative COVID-19 test to enter Canada by land without a fine and have to pay for their stay in a quarantine hotel if entering by air . Health Canada recommends older adults and people with underlying medical conditions get help with errands . Anyone with COVID-19 symptoms should self-isolate , as should those who 've been ordered to do so by their public health unit . The length varies in Quebec and Ontario . Vaccines Four COVID-19 vaccines have been deemed safe and approved in Canada . Canada 's task force said first doses offer such strong protection that people can wait up to four months to get a second . About 1,200,000 doses have been given out in the Ottawa-Gatineau region since mid-December . Eastern Ontario Ontario is now vaccinating anyone age 12 or older . People can look for provincial first dose appointments opening up online or over the phone at 1-833-943-3900 . Pharmacies continue to offer vaccines through their own booking systems as supply allows . The first people who got an AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine March 10 to 19 can now book a second dose . There 's a list of locations offering them in the Kingston area . WATCH Health Canada extends AstraZeneca expiry date to start of July The province 's goal is a second AstraZeneca dose 12 weeks after the first , with more details to come on other recipients . It 's speeding up other kinds of second dose appointments , starting by allowing people in their 80s to rebook if they wish as of Monday at 8 a.m . Health officials continue to tell people who got a first dose before a second dose was automatically booked they wo n't be forgotten . Local health units have flexibility in the larger framework , including around booking , so check their websites for details . Some offer standby lists for first doses . Western Quebec Quebec is now giving a first dose to anyone 12 and older . People who qualify can make an appointment online or over the phone . Starting today , there are walk-in clinics for first doses in Buckingham , Hull and Wakefield and six walk-in clinics for second AstraZeneca doses . The province expects to have given a first dose to 75 per cent of adults by June 15 and is looking at 75 per cent of people age 12 and up getting their second dose by the end of August . Its goal is second doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine eight weeks after the first . People may be able to get an earlier second dose appointment for other types of vaccines starting June 7 . Symptoms and testing COVID-19 can range from a cold-like illness to a severe lung infection , with common symptoms including fever , a cough , vomiting and loss of taste or smell . Children tend to have an upset stomach and/or a rash . If you have severe symptoms , call 911 . Mental health can also be affected by the pandemic , and resources are available to help . In eastern Ontario : Anyone seeking a test should make an appointment . Check with your health unit for clinic locations and hours . Ontario recommends only getting tested if you fit certain criteria , such as having symptoms , exposure or a certain job . People without symptoms but who are part of the province 's targeted testing strategy can make an appointment at select pharmacies . Shoppers Drug Mart stores can now offer rapid tests . Travellers who need a test have very few local options to pay for one . Dr. Kieran Moore , medical officer of health for the Kingston , Frontenac and Lennox &amp; Addington Health Unit will become Ontario 's next chief medical officer of health , replacing the retiring Dr. David Williams . ( Lars Hagberg/Canadian Press ) In western Quebec : Tests are strongly recommended for people with symptoms and their contacts . People can make an appointment and check wait times online . Call 1-877-644-4545 with questions , including if walk-in testing is available nearby . First Nations , Inuit and M ? t is : First Nations , Inuit and M ? t is people , or someone travelling to work in a remote Indigenous community , are eligible for a test in Ontario . Akwesasne has a COVID-19 test site by appointment only and a curfew of 11 p.m. to 5 a.m . Anyone returning to the community on the Canadian side of the international border who 's been farther than 160 kilometres away -- or visited Montreal -- for non-essential reasons is asked to self-isolate for 14 days . People in Pikwakanagan can book a COVID-19 test by calling 613-625-1175 . Anyone in Tyendinaga who 's interested in a test can call 613-967-3603 and in Kitigan Zibi , 819-449-5593 . Tyendinaga 's council is asking people not to travel there to camp or fish . Inuit in Ottawa can call the Akausivik Inuit Family Health Team at 613-740-0999 for service , including testing and vaccines , in Inuktitut or English on weekdays . For more information <p> Hollywood actor Steven Seagal , a long-time admirer of Russian President Vladimir Putin , has joined a pro-Kremlin party , the the party said on Sunday . Seagal received a party membership card of an alliance named Just Russia - Patriots - For Truth on Saturday , a video relased by the party showed . It was formed earlier this year , when three leftist parties , all of which support Putin , merged into one . <p> Earlier this year , the schooner L.A. Dunton marked a century since its launch , and a Fortune , N.L. man -- the only doryman still alive who fished on it -- is closing in on that milestone as well . The Dunton was built by Arthur D. Story and launched at Essex , Mass. , on March 23. 1921 . Built after auxiliary gasoline power had become common in schooners , she was probably the last large engine-less fishing schooner -- often referred to locally as a " dummy-schooner " -- to be built . . Named for Louis A. Dunton , a well-known Maine sailmaker , the ship 's deck measured 124 feet long by 25 feet wide and her hold was 11 ? feet deep . She was described as a two topmasted schooner with the main lower mast being 88 ? long . The total height of the mainmast , including topmast , before an auxiliary crude oil engine of 100 horsepower was installed in 1925 , was 113 feet above deck . She was a 10-dory schooner , with two men to a dory while fishing -- a crew of 22 men , including captain and cook , who lived in very cramped quarters . When the schooner reached the fishing grounds the dories were lowered over the side and rowed off from the vessel . Baited trawls were set and hauled . If the fish were abundant the men worked around the clock , fishing and cleaning the catch , snatching food and sleep as they could . Fog was the fishermen 's greatest enemy ; going astray from their mother ship or being run down by another ship or steamer was always a dangerous possibility . The Dunton , built for captain Felix Hogan of Boston , fished the nearby Georges Banks and as far away as the Grand Banks for halibut in the summer and haddock during the winter . According to reports of the day , " she continued to run to the banks under canvas and Yankee ownership " until Hogan retired from the sea in the early 1930s . The L.A. Dunton is launched at the A.D. Story shipyard in Essex , Mass. , in 1921 . ( Dana Story/Mystic Museum ) Enter captain Benjamin Pine , renowned Gloucester fisherman and internationally known racing skipper , who was born in Belleoram , N.L. , but moved to the Gloucester area with his family at age 10 . The year was 1933 ; Gloucester and the fishing industry were in the throes of the Great Depression . Many people were unemployed and had no choice but to go on the dole . As schooners were lost or came to the end of their working life , they were not replaced . Pine , like other owners , tried to sell some of his vessels ; but there was a very limited market . The Depression , which broke out in 1929 , caused demand for Newfoundland 's iron ore , newsprint and salt cod to plummet . Similar to the situation in the U.S. , jobs were hard to come by Newfoundland , and many people ended up on government relief that was so small it provided only about half of a person 's nutritional requirements . Schooner decline In the late 1800s , there were more than 300 schooners , carrying some 8,000 men , coming from all parts of the island , sailing to the offshore fishing banks in pursuit of cod . However , during the 1930s the picture changed dramatically ; only 40 banking vessels , carrying at most 1,000 men , regularly engaged in the fishery . According to the report , the schooners came almost exclusively from ports on the south coast , such as Grand Bank and Burin . In 1934 , a total of 18 banking schooners out of Grand Bank , carrying more than 400 men , caught nearly seven million pounds of cod ( 66,544 quintals ) . It was the same year , on Feb. 22 , that Grand Bank 's Aaron Buffett of G&amp;A Buffett Ltd. wrote in his diary , " G&amp;A Buffett had offer of schooner L.A. Dunton from Capt Ben Pine of Gloucester , which is being accepted . " On April 19 , 1934 , Buffett along with his wife , Elizabeth , as well as captain Clarence Williams and his crew -- who would sail the vessel back to Grand Bank -- arrived in Boston . The next day they went to Gloucester , where they met Ben Pine and saw the Dunton for the first time . The L.A. Dunton was bought by G&amp;A Buffett of Grand Bank in 1934 . Soon after arriving in Newfoundland , changes were made to the schooner , including reducing the amount of sail it carried and building a pilot house over the steering wheel . ( Robert W. Stoodley Photography ) It took nearly a month to complete all that had to be done , including docking and caulking , installing a lighting plant , purchasing rope , chains and other needed equipment and getting permission for transfer of the vessel from Washington before the Dunton was ready to leave . With Buffet and his wife there to see her off , the ship left Gloucester on May 17 . The 13-year-old schooner was about to begin the second chapter of her life ; for the next 29 years her home port would be Grand Bank . It is not recorded how long it took captain Williams and crew to bring the schooner from Gloucester to Grand Bank , but Buffett noted in his diary , " Dunton on June 13 , 1934 , loaded with 2,050 quintals of salt fish , sailed for Oporto in Portugal . " On July 14 , 1934 , the schooner left Oporto bound for Lisbon , where she loaded 125 tons of salt and arrived back at Grand Bank on Aug. 6 . The Dunton made another trip to Portugal with salt fish in September of that year , again returning with 125 tons of salt . Before the end of the year she also sailed three times to Nova Scotia ports , once for lumber and general cargo and twice for coal . On Dec. 12 the L.A. Dunton was back at Grand Bank after dropping off some crew members at Bay L'Argent and Stone 's Cove . Captain Harvey Banfield , left , and his crew , who delivered the Dunton to her new owners at Mystic in 1963 . ( Rendell Pardy/Submitted by Allan Stoodley ) The vessel was then tied up until mid-February as Buffett 's next diary entry that mentions the vessel is dated Feb. 19 , 1935 : " Our two schooners , Nina W. Corkum with ten men and L. A. Dunton with 12 men , are being fitted for the Banks . " Williams fished the schooner for many years ; in 1938 she landed 4,090 quintals of salt cod for the season . To cope with the harsh realities of fishing the offshore banks in Newfoundland , changes had to be made in the Dunton 's original appearance . A pilot house was built over the steering wheel after the amount of canvas she carried was reduced ; her bowsprit disappeared and her lofty mainmast was replaced with a spar noticeably shorter than the fore . Later , below deck , some of her 16 focs'le berths were sacrificed for additional cargo space and a large Fairbanks Morse diesel engine of 160 horsepower was installed ; the ship had become a motor vessel with auxiliary sail . A household name In the 1930s and ' 40s captain Alex Smith -- referred to as one of the " fish killers " of the schooner bank fishery -- regularly returned to Grand Bank with bumper catches of cod ; including his record year in the Dunton when he landed enough cod to make 7,000 quintals of dried fish . On June 3 , 1945 , Buffett wrote , " Schooner ' L.A. Dunton ' came from the banks with a full load -- 1,150 quintals -- including locker on deck filled and some in the wheelhouse . " Over time the Dunton became a household name in Grand Bank . While her softwood Canadian-built sister ships began to disappear , the Essex-built vessel -- timbered and planked with the best white oak -- went on and on . With the building of fresh fish-processing plants and the coming of the steel-side trawlers in the late 1940s and early 1950s , the era of the salt-fish banking schooners came to an end . During her last few seasons on the offshore banks , the Dunton landed fresh fish catches in Nova Scotia . Maurice Kearley , 93 , the only doryman still alive who sailed on the L.A. Dunton , has travelled to Mystic three times to see it . Here he has his arm in the bunk where he slept when he fished on it in 1953 . ( Heidi Kearley/Submitted by Allan Stoodley ) Maurice Kearley , 93 , of Fortune is the only doryman still living who ever sailed on the vessel . He was on the ship with captain Arch Evans for eight months in 1953 , its last year as a fishing schooner . " We were halibutting that year , landing in Nova Scotia , making more money than we would ever make salt cod fishing , " he said . Having spent nine years as a doryman , he described the Dunton , as " a good schooner , and very fast when we put the sails up on her . " In 1956 the Buffett firm sold the Dunton to S. Piercey in Grand Bank . Four years later she was sold again to J.B. Foote &amp; Sons . Both businesses used her in the coastal trade as a carrier of general cargo , mainly between Halifax and Sydney , N.S. , and Newfoundland ports . Retirement and restoration In early October 1963 , the schooner was purchased by the Marine Historical Association of Mystic , Conn. ; within days , under command of captain Harvey Banfield and his Newfoundland crew , it was delivered to its new Mystic Seaport owners , who restored it to its original rig and appearance as a " Banks fisherman . " In 1994 the ship was designated as a national historic landmark , one of the last great Gloucester schooners to fish the offshore banks ; it 's now one of the top attractions at the Mystic Seaport Museum . Kearley -- who will be 94 in August -- has been to Mystic three times to visit the Dunton : once in 2001 with his wife , Rita , along with three other former crew members and their wives as guests of the Seaport Museum , and in 2016 , accompanied by his granddaughter , Heidi . The L.A. Dunton is still in the water at the Mystic Seaboard Museum and is open to visitors . Dan McFadden , director of communications , says the museum is raising money for the vessel 's restoration . " Securing wood of the appropriate species , size and quality is a challenge and requires a lot of advance work , " he said . A laser scan of the exterior and interior was done . The purpose is to set a baseline of the schooner 's condition that is the foundation reference for planning further work . " Read more from CBC Newfoundland and Labrador 
@@52781303 <p> The rift Paul was being asked to comment on was demonstrated in a series of tweets , Facebook posts , and recent news stories involving two Green MPs , Jenica Atwin and Paul Manly . <p> Earlier this month , Atwin tweeted that she stood " with Palestine ( to ) condemn the unthinkable air strikes in Gaza , " and called for an " end ( to ) apartheid . " <p> Manly tweeted during the Israel-Gaza conflict that , " Last month , Human Rights Watch called the Israeli occupation apartheid . What is happening in East Jerusalem right now is ethnic cleansing . " <p> Those comments , and others , have created divisions within the party , Noah Zatzman told iPolitics . <p> Zatzman is Paul 's senior adviser , and both are Jewish . He said they 've both been victims of anti-Semitic harassment , which has increased during the Middle East conflict and because of the ensuing tweets . <p> On Monday , Dimitri Lascaris , who ran against Annamie Paul for leadership of the party last year , posted on the Green Party of Canada supporters ' Facebook page A Note @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it , he urged Paul to either condemn Zatzman , or " back up her allegation of anti-Semitism with credible evidence ( of which there is none ) . " <p> Lascaris went on to say that if Paul believes Zatzman 's allegations are false , " then she should support our Green MPs by removing Zatzman from the leader 's office . " <p> Zatzman said the Green Party is a grassroots organization that supported Paul , not Lascaris , and the party does n't punish anyone for voicing his or her opinion . <p> " The Green Party has no expulsions ( and ) no punishments , " Zatzman said . <p> " I think they do not want me to do well , for ( Annamie ) Paul not to do well , and then they ( Lascaris and his supporters ) can have a leadership review , " Zatzman said , adding this would give Lascaris an opportunity to run again . <p> When Paul was asked on Monday if she 's reached out to Lascaris , and if she thinks he 'll run for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not directly respond . Instead , she said she 's spoken to all the candidates from the 2020 leadership race . <p> " I am hoping that gives you my intention and the relationship ( with those candidates ) , " she said . <p> Correction : After this story was published , Manly 's office reached out to say he did not publicly or privately support Dimitri Lascaris in his bid to become Green Party leader , nor did Atwin . <h> More from iPolitics <p> By submitting content , you agree that you are personally responsible for the content that you publish and that iPolitics owns the copyright in the content that you submit . You also agree to comply with any specific rules posted on blogs or forums . Please see the Terms of Use for more details . 
