<h> Are we ready for boom time ? <p> However , all of this seems to be happening in the interim . The new U.S president would be the former president , Donald Trump , who would be taking his oaths on January 20th . Trump has already , according to reports told Netanyahu the Israeli prime minister that the wars being waged against Hamas and Hezbollahshould end before he is in office . <p> Are all bets off with regard to world peace with the advent of a new Trump administration in the U.S in early 2025 ? There is no betting on world peace , because the bookmakers -- even the most oddball of them -- do not offer odds on that subject . <p> But there is a ceasefire on at the time of writing between Hezbollah and Israel . In contrast , the war in Ukraine continues and has now come back to Russia , with president Zelenskyy taking aim at Russian targets with weapons obtained courtesy the outgoing U.S President , Joe Biden . <p> However , all of this seems to be happening in the interim . The new U.S president would be the former president , Donald Trump , who would be taking his oaths on January 20th . Trump has already , according to reports told Netanyahu the Israeli prime minister that the wars being waged against Hamas and Hezbollahshould end before he is in office . <p> As for the war in Ukraine , Trump already had spoken to President Zelenskyy during the campaign , and it is expected that he would push for a deal . He has asked that the war ends , and according to reports told Zelenskyy that he should find a way to end the unproductive confrontation with the Russians . <p> For this he has indeed come for a great deal of flak as it is expected by many analysts that Trump may force Zelenskyy to agree to terms that would favour the preferences of Russian President Vladimir Putin . <p> STIFLING <p> The bottom line however is world peace is bound to improve with Trump in office . That was his record in his previous four years in the job as president , which had him roundly vilified by the war-hawks . <p> This record would indicate that a Trump presidency would herald a peace dividend in all parts of the world . A de-escalation of crisis would probably stabilise the Middle East , having a positive impact on crude oil prices . Most analysts believe that a peace dividend due to de-escalating situations in Gaza and the other hotspots of the Middle East , and in Ukraine , is a naive expectation however . <p> But the facts indicate that overall the world economy suffered deleterious consequences due to the situation in Ukraine , and the destabilisation of the Middle East . The ongoing warsport end a threat of escalation of hostilities , which acts as a brake on economic activity , which probably could be one reason that the stock-markets performed much better all over the world after anti-war Trump was elected president . <p> In any event , Trump or no Trump , the fact that the world economy progresses in cycles , points to the fact that the post-Covid slump would now end and new era and cycle of economic gain should dawn . We in Sri Lanka should be prepared for the possible opportunities that could come our way due to this expected turnaround of the economy . <p> Tourism numbers have increased dramatically since the Covid-induced slump , but this is in spite of the fact that the air travel has been extremely expensive . <p> Airline ticket prices have essentially not come down after Covid . On the contrary this year saw airline ticket prices increasing by around 25 percent globally on the average . One reason is that there is n't enough supply to meet demand . <p> PLUMMETED <p> People want to travel , even if it means that they would sustain some debt in the effort . But the airline industry has been grappling with post Covid re-adjustments and a stifling regulatory atmosphere . This has resulted in their inability to cater to the increased demand for airline tickets since Covid ended , and people wanted to catch up for lost time . <p> It is expected that a new Trump administration would ease up regulations imposed on the airline industry , accounting for a new dynamic approach to air-travel on the part of airline companies that have been hoping to open up more business opportunities , but have n't had the chance to do so because the burdensome regulatory atmosphere did n't change . <p> Now , it is expected that there would be a generally more sanguine approach to business everywhere , and in all sectors , which would have a knock-on positive effect on the travel industry as well . If there is a significant effort to cater to demand in the travel industry by increasing supply of aircraft and making more airplane seats available for flyers , the tourism industry would skyrocket . <p> The Sri Lankan policymakers should be on the ready to grab the opportunities that are bound to present themselves . Though the world economy is expected to grow at a modest rate of a little over 3 percent over the course of the next year -- as it did in 2024 -- it is expected that the U.S economy would outperform expectations in 2025 . Many analysts have predicted that . If the world 's number one economy starts booming , it stands to reason that the global economy would also start growing faster in the immediate future than expected . <p> This would be an ideal opportunity to grow our economy too , but readiness is the key to any success . We should be aware that the new opportunities present unique openings , which would mean that we can look for our own market niche . <p> Over-reliance on tourism may not be the answer , even though certainly we should be able to increase arrival numbers of all categories of tourists as planned . But there are other opportunities in less competitive markets than tourism , and these are the openings we should be eager to exploit . <p> Most importantly there are the intangibles . There is an expectation of world peace with the advent of a new Trump administration , and a boom in the U.S economy as pointed out . All this would mean that there will be more optimism in the business world , which generally has a contagious effect . It is common sense in the world of economics that good vibes generate greater good vibes , accounting for a general uptick in economic growth spurred on by a renewed sense of optimism and can-do spirit . <p> There is more competition also that would be on the cards of course . Sri Lankans are notorious for missing opportunities . When China slowed down due to Covid , the Vietnamese for instance were able to rise to the opportunity and take some of these opportunities afforded by the Chinese slowdown . <p> PREDICTION <p> On the contrary we in Sri Lanka were burdening ourselves with a absurdly myopic organic-fertiliser project that exacerbated our problems after the Covid related tourism bust , and the decreases in remittances from Sri Lankan workers abroad due to Covid . So while Vietnam thrived in adversity , we plummeted . <p> Now that there is at least a glimmer of hope that the bust-cycle of the world economy would gradually transform into a boom-cycle , we Sri Lankans should be able to devise the means to exploit new opportunities and get a headstart on the competition . <p> There are theories afloat that a Trump administration would cause inflation to surge due to high tariffs that the new president promises to impose , especially on Chinese goods . But these seem to be jaundiced views coming from the establishment , which is notoriously anti-Trump for political reasons . These negative prognostications generally downplay the positive effects of tax cuts etc. , which would help businesses under Trump , and provide an overall stimulus to the economy . The stock market indices would not be surging if the Trump economy is poised to have a negative impact . The truth is that despite the doomsaying of the pundits -- who also claimed the US presidential election would be a very close race , which it was not -- the market behaviour is a far more reliable indicator of what is expected from the economy , and therfore the predictions of the skeptics can be safely set aside . <p> It is good to plan for a general boost for the world economy and all the opportunities that it would bring . We should get out of the habit of never missing an opportunity to miss an opportunity , a negative Sri Lankan trait that has hitherto always kept us ten paces behind the competition .
