<h> Classified <h> Other <h> Tides , from Colombo to Arugam Bay <p> Arugam Bay is no Gaza , thankfully , but Chabad-Lubavitch members are bringing Gaza into Arugam Bay -- just as Maccabi Tel Aviv fans brought Gaza into Amsterdam <h> " Do n't let it happen . It <h> depends on you . " <h> -- Orwell ( 1984 ) <p> By Tisaranee Gunasekara <p> They are back , creeping of the woodwork . The gathering outside Colombo 's main railway station was mercifully small , just the mandatory monk and a handful of civilians . Having offered flowers to a statue of the Buddha , they proceeded to violate his teachings by trying to ignite an ethno-religious fire . Their target was the welcome decision by the NPP/JVP Government to release some of the military-occupied land in the north to their original owners . <p> The monk accused President Anura Kumara Dissanayake of being a diaspora agent trying to rejuvenate the Tigers and start the next Eelam War . Madubhashana Prabath , the secretary of Sinhala Ravaya , called the new president King Elara of Tambuttegama and promised to struggle till the ' last drop of blood ' to ' save the nation ' . ( https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=oc613tLk3Cs ) ... During the Kurundi controversy in 2023 , the same Madubhashana Prabath threatened the then president with violence : " Ranil should pay attention to what happened to Rajiv Gandhi . Because patriots are near even you ... " ( ( https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? app=desktop &a; ... The NPP/JVP ( and the SJB ) watched in silence because the target was their political opponent . Now the same extremists are coming for the NPP/JVP . <p> The new Government is young , and hopes are still high of a change for the better . Yet , Sinhala Ravaya decided to aggressively confront the President , probably because they sense a coming change in tides , due to the gravitational force of economic malaise . The two speakers repeatedly challenged the Government to fulfil its economic promises , especially about slashing fuel prices . Little wonder , given the most recent price revision , which saw the price of kerosene oil going up by Rs. 2 ! <p> Kerosene is called the " poor man 's oil " and as Peter Breuer of the IMF said during his Colombo visit , " The poor people are least equipped to deal with it ( high prices ) because they have no buffers " ( https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=XQ-KnTxpLfI ) ... To increase the price of kerosene in a time of massive flood damages to ordinary lives is an act of colossal political blindness , the malady generally associated with Ranil Wickremesinghe . <p> According to the latest IHP poll , consumer confidence increased substantially in early October . The JVP/NPP 's landslide parliamentary victory was reflective of this upbeat mood . Whether this optimism remains or not depends on how the Government performs . Eschewing privileges is necessary and excellent , but the feel-good factor such measures create can not endure in the absence of tangible economic improvements . <p> A plurality of Lankans think education , health , and agriculture should be top spending priorities of the new Government , again according to the IHP opinion poll . Not a single Lankan voter wants an increase in military spending . Most Lankans also want to see high income-earners taxed at a much higher rate . Backing for a marginal tax rate of 50% on those earning more than Rs. 500,000 per month has remained above 50% since 2023 . Since only 2.2% of adults pay PAYE , an immediate reduction in PAYE rates would not be popular nationally or among NPP voters , excepting the small stratum of professionals in the NPP 's upper ranks . <p> Most Lankans seem closer to the IMF 's Peter Breuer than the NPP/JVP on the make-or-break issue of revenue-generation . " During one of our staff visits we went to Nuwara-eliya and met with some estate workers who showed us their bills and their income slips . It was just shocking how the high cost of electricity and other things are essentially absorbing all their incomes . Better off people are better equipped to deal with this high inflation . So it is very important that those who can make a contribution to society do that ... so having a personal income tax system and corporate income tax system that asks richer people , better off people for more contributions is essential for the Government to deliver the essential services ... including to the poor people " ( https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=XQ-KnTxpLfI ) ... France 's Macron fiasco provides the latest warning about the politico-economic consequences of tax cut economics . During his first term , President Macron , basing himself on the less-taxes-more-growth dogma , reduced corporate taxes from 33% to 25% and ended the Solidarity Tax ( a wealth tax on assets over 1.31 million euros ) . The result was an increase not in growth but in deficit , as France 's Central Bank and Court of Auditors have acknowledged . <p> The world is experiencing a swing towards the blood-and-faith populist right . In France , the tidal changes favour Marine Le Pen . When tides turn in Sri Lanka , the main beneficiary will not be the squabbling SJB/UNP but the Rajapaksas and other ethno-religious saviours . <p> Which way the Opposition ? <p> Addressing his first meeting in Jaffna as president , Anura Kumara Dissanayake promised to return military-occupied land gradually to original owners and release all political prisoners . Both measures are long overdue . The war ended 15 years ago . Saturating the north and east with army camps makes no sense from security , economic , or human point-of-view . Most Tamil political prisoners have spent decades in jail without being charged . <p> If the Government honours the President 's promises to the full , the SJB and the UNP are unlikely to cry " Tiger ! Tiger ! " The Rajapaksas are another matter , and other presidential wannabes who dream of grabbing a slice of Gotabaya Rajapaksa 's infamous 6.9 million . This week 's coming out of Sinhala Ravaya is only the latest instance of blood-and-faith populists testing political waters . Before that came Namal Rajapaksa 's dog-whistle comment on the removal of Katkovalam army camp in Jaffna ( https : **38;799;TOOLONG ... According to media reports Medagoda Abeytissa thero ( he who preached that voting for the SLPP was a meritorious deed -- pinkama ) is also back in action , talking about ' enemies ' and the need for a rejuvenated ' national movement ' . If the SJB and the UNP continue to squabble like infantile children , if they fail to oppose the Government rationally , the resulting vacuum will be filled by irrational forces promising to save us from Tamil/Muslim/Hindu enemies -- again . <p> If the JVP did n't effect a change of guard in by replacing Somawansa Amarasinghe with Anura Kumara Dissanayake as leader , there would have been no NPP in 2019 and no electoral triumph in 2024 . To face the new times , the Opposition too needs such a change , of leaders and of policies . Both Ranil Wickremesinghe and Sajith Premadasa are a bar to the necessary reunification of the UNP and the SJB and the creation of a new organisation more attuned to the hopes and needs of Sri Lanka in the second decade of the 21st Century . Since both leaders will continue to cleave to their positions even at the cost of their respective parties , it will not be they but blood-and-faith populists who will benefit from the electorate eventual disenchantment with the NPP/JVP . <p> So back to the past , of showcasing this or that minority as the enemy , creating nation-in-peril crises by myriad ways . What could have happened but did n't with Sihalaramaya -- is an indication of where Sri Lanka could be headed . Soon after the war ended , the Sinhala Ravaya ' resettled ' several Sinhala-Buddhist families in Navakkuli , Jaffna . According to an article in the Irida Divaina ( of 18 August 2013 , by Dinasena Ratugamage and appropriately captioned ' Inane Piety which creates Religious Wars ' ) , a temple was built there under Rajapaksa and military patronage , supposedly for these new residents : Sihalaramaya -- Sinhala Temple . <p> In August 2013 , this Sinhala Temple was reportedly attacked by an unknown entity . The attack did n't create a frenzy , maybe because the Rajapaksas had by then replaced the Tamil enemy with the Muslim enemy . 2019 lies about Muslim residents vandalising Muhudu Maha Viharaya in Pottuvil gained more purchase in Sinhala fears . This time around too , Rajapaksas and their imitators are likely to experiment with various ' enemies ' until they come up with the most effective one , not to mention ally with anyone to improve their political fortunes . As the Government disappoints and the SJB/UNP fails to step into the breach , the lure of extreme solutions would grow , again . Most Lankans seem to be in a less-irrational place today , but who knows what comes tomorrow ? <p> From Sihalaramaya to Chabad-House <p> Let 's start with the true meaning of things . What is a Chabad House ? A Chabad House , according to the official website of the Chabad-Lubavitch Movement " is a Jewish community centre in the truest sense of the term -- the nerve centre of all the educational and outreach activities of the Chabad-Lubavitch shilach ... " ( https : **37;839;TOOLONG ... So a Chabad House is not just another synagogue ; it is the synagogue of a particular Jewish cult , one which believes in greater Israel . The same way Sihalaramaya was not just another Buddhist temple but a temple of an ethno-religious supremacist organisation which believes in a Sinhala-Buddhist Sri Lanka . <p> So talking about Chabad Houses without taking into account the politics of the Chabad-Lubavitch Movement ( as Mark Salter did in his response to me ) is like talking about Sihalaramaya without talking about the politics of Sinhala Ravaya . <p> The best way to understand the politics of a Chabad House is to understand the politics of the Chabad-Lubavitch Movement 's last head ( rebbe ) , the hugely influential Menachem Mendel Schneerson . An implacable supporter of Greater Israel , he opposed every peace accord from Sadat-Begin to Arafat-Rabin , opposed the setting up of the Palestinian Authority , opposed Israel 's withdrawals from Syria , Egypt , Gaza , and the West Bank -- as his admiring biographer Joseph Telushkin admits . His approach was : " It is forbidden to relinquish any part of the land of Israel " ( https : **38;878;TOOLONG ... And when you are in a conflict , finish the job , meaning no ceasefires , no deals , no concessions ( https : **38;918;TOOLONG ... Mark Salter writes that he agrees with me " that any right-wing , ' Greater Israel ' directed ideology poses a potentially serious problem wherever it exists . " That is precisely the problem with allowing a Chabad House in Muslim-majority Arugam Bay ; Chabad-Lubavitch Movement is a firm adherent and a committed vehicle of the Greater Israel ideology , which threatens not only Palestinians and other people of the region ( including the people of Israel ) but also the world . And as for the Iranian-hand he parrots , let 's remember the US 's Weapons of Mass Destruction hoax which enabled the second invasion of Iraq , a colossal crime which gave violent Islamic extremism wings . Perhaps Mark Slater has n't heard of Curveball , the Iraqi defector who imagined quite a lot of the WMD tale , which the Americans believe because they were looking for any excuse to attack Iraq -- just as they are looking for any excuse now to attack Iran . <p> A constitution is a covenant between the governing and the governed , rulers and citizens . It does n't apply to tourists . There is no bar from Israel tourists praying as much as they want , but they do n't need a Chabad House to do that . As Bishop Duleep de Chickera reminds us in his timely piece on Arugam Bay , even Lankan citizens can not set up places of worship as they please ; " Why would tourists on short stays want this when they can pray in their rooms ? " ( https : **38;958;TOOLONG ... Incidentally , Mark Salter can not be unaware that Jews do n't need a synagogue to worship , that they can worship in their places of residence , be it home or hotel . <p> I deliberately did n't refer to the Chabad House in Colombo , because it has not created waves . The problem is the one in Arugam Bay . Permitting a Chabad House in Arugam Bay is as deranged as allowing the Bodu Bala Sena or Sinhala Ravaya to set up a temple in Jaffna . <p> True to their most revered rebbe 's teaching , Chabad-Lubavitch Movement is an active participant in Israel 's war against Gaza . The war has been identified as genocidal not just by the UN but also by Israel-American historian and eminent Holocaust expert , Omar Bartov : Israel 's war , he said , is " a combination of genocidal actions , ethnic cleansing , ( and ) and annexation of the Gaza strip ( https : **38;998;TOOLONG ... Mark Slater is silent about Chabad House publicly commemorating the IDF war-dead in someone else 's country , and in a town without a single Jewish citizen . Arugam Bay is no Gaza , thankfully , but Chabad-Lubavitch members are bringing Gaza into Arugam Bay -- just as Maccabi Tel Aviv fans brought Gaza into Amsterdam . Two days before the soccer match between Israel 's Maccabi-Tel Aviv team and the Netherland 's AFC Ajax team , Maccabi fans arrived in Amsterdam . Over the next 48 hours , hundreds of them roamed the city , tearing down Palestinian flags , destroying a taxi belonging to a Dutch-Arab citizen , and chanting such racist slogans as ' Victory to the IDF . F*%$ the Arabs ' . During the match , they interrupted the two-minute silence for Valencia flood victims and chanted ' There are no schools in Gaza , ( because ) there are no kids ' , a reference to tens of thousands of children murdered by Israeli forces . <p> As Yuval Gal of the anti-Zionist collective Erev Rav said , " If somebody just came from Gaza , came back from killing a lot of people you do n't expect them to behave normally in your city . They have just come back from Gaza they wo n't act normally " ( https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=moPFJD3L16k ) ... After losing the match , Maccabi fans went out to the streets attacking passers-by and the police . In retaliation , Ajax fans , made up of Amsterdam residents of Arab and Dutch origin , unleashed their own brand of violence . Though the counter-violence contained traces of anti-Semitism , it was not a pogrom , as the Amsterdam mayor was compelled to admit later . <p> An article I read in Yedioth Ahronoth , Israel 's highest circulation newspaper , made it easier for me to understand Mark Salter 's mental gymnastics . The opinion piece titled , ' This is what a pogrom looks like , this is the new antisemitism ' by Smadar Perry begins thus . " This is what an Israeli woman who arrived in Amsterdam two days before the soccer match between Maccabi Tel Aviv and Ajax clubs wrote about the atmosphere in the city : ' There were huge gatherings and shouts of ' Death to Arabs ' in Amsterdam 's main squares alongside violence against people against Palestinian flags ... Leaving the games Maccabi Tel Aviv fans were roaming looking for Palestinians to beat up " ( https : **38;1038;TOOLONG ... To call the fracas in Amsterdam a pogrom is to belittle actual pogroms and insult the memory of their countless Jewish victims . <p> So the Israeli visitors incited the violence , then cried antisemitism . Like those Jewish settlers from West Bank who are trying to take over Jerusalem 's Armenian quarter , home for Armenian Christians -- the city 's smallest religious minority -- for more than a millennium . When the Armenians resist , they are accused of being anti-semitic ( https : **38;1078;TOOLONG ... If Chabad-Lubavitch Movement is given a legal foothold in Arugam Bay , it may not be long before our own Muslims are accused of antisemitism and of igniting a pogrom ! Imagine with what glee the BBS/Sinhala Ravaya types would hop on that bandwagon . <p> As tides turn , and the magic fades , we will have enough headaches with our own fundamentalists . We do n't need to add Jewish fundamentalists ( Chabad-Lubavitch Movement ) to our lot .
