<p> We live in a specialised world . Here ethics , integrity and professionalism are of the utmost importance . Employees with specialised skills are in demand . The world needs leaders with vision who can lead the next generation of professionals . They should be able to tackle the challenges of the future with confidence and boldness , making a real difference in the world and in the lives of people . <p> The Chartered Management Institute ( CMI ) UK , in collaboration with CMI Sri Lanka ( CMI-SL ) , hosted ' CMI Communities Live ' at the Galle Face Hotel , Colombo . Themed " Navigating Change in Uncertain Times , " the event provided an exclusive platform for CMI members in Sri Lanka to connect , engage , and enhance their skills in today 's evolving professional landscape . <p> There is only one way to Navigate Change in Uncertain Times . You ca n't let life just happen to you . You need to take control of your future . You need to be bold and assertive . Times maybe uncertain , yet you need to be resolute . <p> A key highlight of the evening was the presentation of new Chartered Manager and Fellow certificates , awarded to individuals who demonstrated exceptional leadership and management skills . The awards were presented by Chief Executive Officer of CMI-UK , Ann Francke OBE , who served as the Guest of Honour , reinforcing CMI 's dedication to promoting management excellence globally . <p> Outstanding leadership <p> Dr. Thesara Jayawardane , the Project Chair of the event , was specially recognised for her shortlisting as a nominee for the 2024 Chartered Manager of the Year Award . She received a Certificate of Recognition from Ann Francke , honoring her outstanding leadership and contributions to the field of management . <p> The event also included a Felicitation of Past Presidents , acknowledging their invaluable contributions to the growth and success of CMI Sri Lanka over the years.The Chartered Management Institute Sri Lanka ( CMI-SL ) is the only chartered professional body for management and leadership in Sri Lanka . Established in 1996 , CMI-SL is dedicated to advancing management practices through thought leadership , skills development , and the promotion of CMI-UK certifications . <p> President of CMI Sri Lanka , Kamaya Perera , called the event a significant milestone , a historic session , and a new chapter of collaboration , learning and growth . " This event is truly a celebration . It is a celebration of each and every one of you , and the remarkable progress that each and every one of you have made in your professional and personal journey . As members of CMI , we are united by a common purpose and that is to drive excellence in management and leadership together . Events like this allows us to come together and celebrate our achievements , explore the latest trends in our own fields and build deeper connections that will help us grow professionally and personally , " said Perera . <p> She called the event an opportunity to connect . It is an opportunity to engage , learn and grow and have a fantastic evening of networking . " CMI 's commitment to nurturing the next generation of managers and leaders will play a pivotal role in strengthening the management profession in Sri Lanka , enriching the strong educational ties between the UK and Sri Lanka . Our ongoing efforts to elevate professional standards , champion ethical leadership , and promote continuous development within the management community are making a tangible difference in how institutions are managed , " pointed out Perera . <p> British qualification <p> British High Commissioner to Sri Lanka , Andrew Patrick , pointed out that Education is an enormous part of the relationship between the UK and Sri Lanka . " Many Sri Lankans study in the UK , and in recent years British Universities have formed partnerships with local institutions here to work to educate people in Sri Lanka . There are some 45,000 undergraduates in this country , who are studying with local institutions , who are studying for a British qualification . There are around 40 universities who are a part of that . That is an impressive statistic . Sri Lanka is now the second largest destination for transnational education for the UK in the world . You have overtaken Malaysia , and China is number one . CMI is a different kind of experience , and a different kind of education . CMI and the other chartered institutes offer something complementary . <p> And the reason is because they are a qualification , they are a mark of distinction , which you can acquire whatever degree you have studied and whoever you have studied with ( Sri Lankan university or International university ) , you can go ahead and have CMI certification and become a member of the CMI . And that is important for many reasons . The CMI is a worldwide organization , present in around 170 countries with 220,000 members across the world . <p> That is an incredible global community . If you become a member of the CMI , or take their courses , you are connected to that huge community and you are taking the advantage of that knowledge , the latest worldwide best practice . You have access to all of that by working with the CMI . And the same is true for all the other chartered institutes that are present in Sri Lanka . I am tremendously pleased that the CMI is enjoying enormous growth here in Sri Lanka for the reasons I have just said , " explained Patrick . <p> Certainty and predictability <p> In his address Patrick pointed out that the topic , Navigating Change in Uncertain Times is meaningful to him . He started his diplomatic career during the Cold War . " The Soviet Union was still running Eastern Europe in those days , and it brought a kind of certainty and predictability , you had a sense of what was going to happen . <p> Of course immediately after I joined in 1989/1990 , all of that changed , and we had a period of incredible change in the world . My guess is that since Covid19 , we are seeing the signs of another period of extraordinary change in the world and unpredictability . That is going to make it more difficult for all of us to manage whatever we are doing , it makes it more difficult for us as diplomats . <p> It makes it more difficult for you as managers . So what is the solution to that ? One of the answers to that is not to do it alone . Do it as part of a global community of people who are facing similar problems . Exchange views with them . Understand how they are approaching it and share your experiences . That gives you a sense of confidence , the confidence to manage change . That is why this event is so important , " he added . <p> President , Council of Business with Britain , Sri Lanka , Mark Surgenor , said that he is no stranger to difficult times having been in the country during the economic crisis . He added that the world that we live in is rapidly changing politically and economically . There 's so much uncertainty in the world right now . Surgenor is right on the money . <p> Both USA and Sri Lanka have a new president , the ongoing conflict/violence in Gaza is worsening , and the Russia-Ukraine War continues . " Geo politics are all around us . There is uncertainty in the business community . Why is that important to Sri Lanka ? Sri Lanka is a connected country which is in an enviable location where the busy East-West shipping route passes just six to ten nautical miles south of the island . More than 60,000 ships ply this route annually , carrying two-thirds of the world 's oil and half of all container shipments . Tourists come to Sri Lanka from all around the world . The world is shifting and it is a complex world , and a complex environment , and managing through it is difficult . So how do you do that ? First make sure you have a plan , " said Surgenor . <p> He took the example of a pilot . He spoke of situational awareness . Think about a pilot flying a plane . He needs to know how to fly the plane . He needs to know where he is going . He needs to know how to communicate . But one of the most critical skills he needs is knowing where the other planes are . What they are doing , and why they are doing what they are doing , and what impact they might have on his trajectory . <p> " We need to know what is going on with other economies . Why are people behaving the way they are ? Why are people doing what they are doing ? What is that going to do for the trajectory we wish to follow ? We need to understand their motivations . Think about other countries , other governments and other competitors . <p> They all have influences . Look inwards and make sure you know your people . Know what they want and what they need . What their thoughts , ambitions and capabilities are . Be honest about how you work together . None of us are perfect . Make sure your messages are getting through , top to bottom . There needs to be structure and discipline . Think about what might happen and what you will do if it happens . Any significant event has its potential challenges . You need to plan and have something to work with . You need to be able to navigate your challenges . The more you test the more you build confidence in yourself , your organisation and your team . You need to be a good communicator , " pointed out Surgenor . <p> Chief Executive Officer of CMI-UK , Ann Francke OBE , reflected on the rapid growth of CMI 's learner community in Sri Lanka , which has expanded from 350 members in 2021 to over 500 today , with total membership now exceeding 650 . She noted , " Over the last three years , we have witnessed tremendous growth in our presence and impact in Sri Lanka . This growth reflects the increasing recognition of the value of professional management qualifications and the demand for skilled leadership across the region . " <p> She added that CMI is the global professional body for managers and leaders , and the only organisation able to award chartered management status . " We turn accidental managers into conscious , capable and confident leaders . Now why is that important ? Say you are a great IT professional or a fabulous finance professional or super sales professional . You have functional expertise and you excel . So one day , your boss taps you on the shoulder and says , congratulations ! ' You are promoted ! You are now running the department . Good luck with that ! ' . And they leave you to get on with it . In actual fact 82% of people promoted into managerial positions in the UK do not receive any managerial training . And it is therefore no wonder that they are not really sure what they are doing . They lack the skills , confidence and self-awareness to successfully lead the team for their organisations . And that is what CIM is there for . We help people overcome these obstacles , make them part of our global community and provide them with qualifications . We are very proud of our global community , " explained Francke . <p> They are united in the conviction that learning how to manage and lead , and constantly learning how to do it better and better makes a huge and positive impact on individuals in organisations , and in the end has an impact on society . " We work with managers and leaders to develop the knowledge , behaviors and skills that the next generation of managers and leaders need . You need to manage yourself , manage others and manage the impact of your organisation . To be a great manager and leader , you need to be able to do all this . Managers and leaders exist at every level . You need to be able to manage the complex aspects of your organisation on a daily basis . You need to manage change all the time in these uncertain times . You need to think clearly and come up with plans . " <p> 2nd Vice President/Project Chair , Dr. Thesara Jayawardane , called the event remarkable and special in many ways . All speakers highlighted the many facets of CIM and how important it is to the next generation of leaders , honing the skills of the youth and having such a positive impact on society . She specially thanked all participants for contributing with their expertise . The perspectives of navigating change in uncertain times was impactful and the dissemination of knowledge and information was well received . Jayawardane said that the significance of the event will resonate for many years to come . <p> " Let us continue to build stronger connections and strive for excellence in management . "
