<h> The fall of Damascus <p> The smell of freedom was in the air around Damascus on Sunday as rebel forces stormed the world 's oldest city , forcing Syrian strongman Bashar al-Assad to flee to Moscow with his family , where they have been granted asylum . <p> Assad , who ruled Syria with an iron fist for 24 years , had no other option as rebel forces led by the charismatic Abu Mohammed al-Jawlani of the Islamist Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , stormed into the city amidst the cheers of residents . The rebellion against the Assad regime has been simmering for around 13 years without much progress , which is why the speed of the rebel advance took even the foreign intelligence community by surprise . World leaders were however quick to welcome it , with United States ( US ) President Joe Biden describing Assad 's ouster as an " act of justice " . Nevertheless , they have been cautious not to overtly praise the rebels either . <p> The rebels ' swift victory marks a revolutionary milestone for Syria , which has been mired in a Civil War since 2011 , which itself turned into an international proxy war involving Tehran , Washington , Moscow , Ankara and Tel Aviv . Syria also turned into a breeding ground for the Islamic State ( IS ) terrorist group , which was later vanquished through an international effort . <p> Jawlani , who has increasingly been using his real name Ahmed al-Sharaa in official communiqu ? s and openly appearing in public without any disguise for the past few years despite a US$ 10 million bounty offered by the US on his head ( HTS has been designated by the United Nations ( UN ) , US , United Kingdom and many other countries as a terrorist organisation ) may or may not be the leader that Syria needs at this critical juncture when there is a war raging in neighbouring Lebanon and Gaza . In fact , Israel exploited the chaos in Syria to attack what it called military targets in some parts of the country . <p> Jawlani has taken pains to cultivate a more moderate image , cutting off ties with the extremist terror groups such as al-Qaeda and the Islamic State ( IS ) . He has also shed the traditional garb worn by Jihadist militants and opted for Western attire and battlefield fatigues , apparently inspired by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky , who has been seen in similar attire since the Ukraine War began in February 2022 . Jawlani , though still a firm believer of Sharia Law , has also recognised the rights of believers of other faiths . <p> While the world watches the meteoric rise of Jawlani with concern , what is certain is that no tears will be shed for the deposed Syrian dictator Assad , who has been accused of ordering brutal physical and chemical attacks on his own people to consolidate power . In fact , members of the Assad family have been ruling Syria for almost 50 years . Assad was actually studying to become an eye surgeon in London when his brother Bassel , being groomed to succeed their father Hafez , was killed in a car crash . <p> This , coupled with his father 's death in 2000 after three decades in power , propelled the younger Assad to the political limelight , with Parliament taking just four hours to lower the Presidential eligibility age to 34 to accommodate him at the Presidential Election in 2000 . Naturally , this was a sham election with no real opposition and Assad has been in power since then . He was returned to power every seven years through similar " elections " , despite several attempts by various external forces to end his regime . <p> According to a report by the UK-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights , over 100,000 people have been executed or have died in prisons of the Assad regime . An Amnesty International ( AI ) investigation also found that " murder , torture , enforced disappearances and extermination carried out at Syrian prisons since 2011 have been perpetrated as part of an attack against the civilian population that has been widespread , as well as systematic , and carried out in furtherance of state policy " . <p> Incidentally , 2011 was the year that the " Arab Spring " came to the streets of Damascus with calls to overthrow Assad , who put down the protests violently . In May 2011 , then US President Barack Obama said Assad 's regime had " chosen the path of murder and the mass arrests of its citizens " and called on him to lead a democratic transition " or get out of the way " . <p> The conflict is now a cornerstone of Assad 's brutal legacy , leaving hundreds of thousands of dead , and what the UN earlier this year said was more than seven million Internally Displaced People ( IDPs ) and over six million international refugees . <p> But now , Syria has an opportunity to turn a new page , leaving that dark era behind . For the moment , Jawlani has promised a peaceful transition to democracy and Assad 's own Prime Minister Mohammed Ghazi al-Jalali has been tasked with supervising this process . <p> It is not yet clear whether Jawlani has Presidential or Prime Ministerial ambitions , which is complicated by his international pariah status and the US$ 10 million bounty . But what is clear is that a new generation of Syrians ( Jawlani himself is just 42 ) has a golden opportunity to take Syria out of its present quagmire and rejoin the community of nations .
