<h> How Iran Sees the Path to <h> The Islamic Republic Is Open to Negotiations-Including With America <p> On July 30 , Masoud Pezeshkian was sworn-in as Iran 's new President . Mere hours after the ceremony , Ismail Haniyeh , the former Prime Minister of the Palestinian National Authority and chairman of the Hamas political bureau , was assassinated by Israel in a guesthouse near the Presidential complex . Haniyeh had been invited to attend the inauguration , and his killing on Iranian soil cast a shadow over the proceedings . It also previewed the challenges Pezeshkian will face in pursuing his foreign policy ambitions . <p> But Pezeshkian is well-prepared to handle all the difficulties that will arise over the coming years . Pezeshkian recognises that the world is transitioning into a post-polar era where global actors can simultaneously cooperate and compete across different areas . He has adopted a flexible foreign policy , prioritising diplomatic engagement and constructive dialogue rather than relying on outdated paradigms . His vision for Iran 's security is holistic , encompassing both traditional defense capabilities and the enhancement of human security through improvements in the economic , social , and environmental sectors . <p> Pezeshkian wants stability and economic development in the Middle East . He wants to collaborate with neighbouring Arab countries and to strengthen relations with Iran 's allies . But he also wants to engage constructively with the West . His government is ready to manage tensions with the United States , which has also just elected a new President . Pezeshkian hopes for equal-footed negotiations regarding the nuclear deal -- and potentially more . <p> Yet as Pezeshkian has made clear , Iran will not capitulate to unreasonable demands . The country will always stand up to Israeli aggression . And it will be undeterred from protecting its national interests . <p> POLITICS IS LOCAL <p> This is a historic moment for stability that the world should not let slip . Tehran certainly wo n't . After over two centuries of vulnerability , Iran -- under the leadership of Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei -- has finally proven that it can defend itself against any external aggression . To take that achievement to the next level , Iran , under its new administration , plans to improve relations with neighbouring states to help create a regional order that promotes stability , wealth , and security . Our region has been plagued for far too long by foreign interference , wars , sectarian conflicts , terrorism , drug trafficking , water scarcity , refugee crises , and environmental degradation . To tackle these challenges , we will work to pursue economic integration , energy security , freedom of navigation , environmental protection , and interfaith dialogue . <p> Eventually , these efforts could lead to a new regional arrangement that reduces the Persian Gulf 's reliance on external powers and encourages stakeholders to address conflicts through dispute resolution mechanisms . To do so , the region 's countries may pursue treaties , create institutions , enact policies , and pass legislative measures . Iran and its neighbors can start by mimicking the Helsinki process , which led to the formation of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe . They can use the never-implemented mandate that the UN Security Council gave to the UN Secretary-General in 1987 , under Resolution 598 . That resolution , which ended the Iran-Iraq War , called on the Secretary-General to consult with Iran , Iraq , and other regional states to explore measures that could enhance security and stability in the Persian Gulf . The Pezeshkian administration believes this provision can serve as the legal basis for comprehensive regional talks . <p> Of course , there are obstacles that Iran and its neighbours must overcome to foster a peaceful , integrated regional order . Some differences with its neighbours have deep-rooted origins , shaped by varying interpretations of history . Others arise from misconceptions , mainly rooted in poor or insufficient communication . Still others are political constructs implanted by external forces , such as allegations concerning the nature and objective of Iran 's nuclear programme . <p> But the Persian Gulf must move on . Iran 's vision aligns with the interests of Arab countries , all of which also want a more stable and prosperous region for the sake of future generations . Iran and the Arab world should thus be able to work through their differences . Iran 's support for Palestinian resistance could help kick-start such cooperation . The Arab world , after all , is united with Iran in its support for restoring the rights of the Palestinian people . <p> HITTING RESET <p> After more than 20 years of economic restrictions , the United States and its Western allies should recognise that Iran does not respond to pressure . Their intensifying coercive measures have consistently backfired . At the height of Washington 's most recent maximum-pressure campaign -- and just days after Israel assassinated Iran 's leading nuclear scientist , Mohsen Fakhrizadeh -- Iran 's parliament passed a law directing the government to rapidly advance its nuclear programme and reduce international monitoring . The number of centrifuges in Iran has increased dramatically since 2018 -- when U.S. President Donald Trump withdrew from the nuclear deal -- and enrichment levels have skyrocketed from 3.5 percent to over 60 percent . It is hard to imagine any of this would have happened if the West had not abandoned its cooperative approach . In this regard , Trump , who will take office again in January , and Washington 's partners in Europe have themselves to blame for Iran 's continued nuclear progress . <p> Instead of increasing pressure on Iran , the West should pursue positive-sum solutions . The nuclear deal provides a unique example , and the West should look to revive it . But to do so , it must take concrete and practical actions -- including political , legislative , and mutually beneficial investment measures -- to make sure Iran can benefit economically from the agreement , as was promised . Should Trump decide to take such steps , then Iran is willing to have a dialogue that would benefit both Tehran and Washington . <p> On a broader scale , Western policymakers must acknowledge that strategies aimed at pitting Iran and Arab countries against one another by supporting initiatives such as the so-called Abraham Accords ( which normalised ties between various Arab countries and Israel ) have proven ineffective in the past and will not succeed in the future . The West needs a more constructive approach -- one that takes advantage of Iran 's hard-earned confidence , accepts Iran as an integral part of regional stability , and seeks collaborative solutions to shared challenges . Such shared challenges could even prompt Tehran and Washington to engage in conflict management rather than exponential escalation . All countries , Iran and the United States included , have a mutual interest in addressing the underlying causes of regional unrest . <p> That means all countries have an interest in stopping the Israeli occupation . They should realise that the fighting and fury will continue until the occupation ends . Israel may think it can permanently triumph over the Palestinians , but it can not ; a people who have nothing to lose can not be defeated . Organisations such as Hezbollah and Hamas are grassroots liberation movements that have emerged in response to occupation and will continue to play a significant role as long as the underlying conditions persist -- which is to say until the Palestinians ' right to self-determination is realised . There can be intermediate steps , including immediate cease-fires in Lebanon and Gaza . <p> Iran can continue to play a constructive role in ending the current humanitarian nightmare in Gaza and work with the international community to pursue a lasting and democratic solution to the conflict . Iran will agree to any solution acceptable to Palestinians , but our government believes that the best way out of this century-long ordeal would be a referendum in which everyone living between the Jordan River and the Mediterranean Sea -- Muslims , Christians , and Jews -- and Palestinians driven to diaspora in the twentieth century ( along with their descendants ) would be able to determine a viable future system of governance . This is in line with international law and would build on the success of South Africa , where an apartheid system was transformed into a viable democratic state . <p> Constructive engagement with Iran , coupled with a commitment to multilateral diplomacy , can help build a framework for global security and stability in the Persian Gulf . It can thereby reduce tensions and foster long-term prosperity and development . This shift is crucial for overcoming entrenched conflicts . Although today 's Iran is confident that it can fight to defend itself , it wants peace , and it is determined to build a better future . Iran can be an able and willing partner , as long as its partnerships are based on mutual respect and equal footing . Let us not miss this opportunity for a new beginning . <p> ( The writer is Associate Professor of Global Studies at University of Tehran . He has been Iran 's Vice President for Strategic Affairs since August 2024 . From 2013 to 2021 , he served as Foreign Minister of Iran . He was the country 's Chief Nuclear Negotiator from 2013 to 2015 and its Ambassador to the United Nations from 2002 to 2007. )
