<p> New Govt. must counter fearmongering and resistance to equality and justice within Muslim personal law By Ermiza Tegal In the wake of the presidential and general elections , the National People 's Power ( NPP ) government will have to navigate the disinformation and scare tactics that were deployed during the campaign period about reform of the Muslim Marriage ... <p> By Thalif Deen UNITED NATIONS ( IPS ) -- If and when the devastating military conflicts in Ukraine and Gaza come to an end , the ultimate winners will not be the Russians , the Americans or the Israelis but the world 's arms manufacturers -- contemptuously described as " merchants of death . " And so will be the winners in a rash of ... <p> Review : The Rout of Prabhakaran by MR Narayan Swamy. 432 pages published by Vijitha Yapa Publications Rs 4950 By Padma Rao Sundarji . Hindustan Times New Delhi Veteran journalist M.R.Narayan Swamy 's fourth book on the Sri Lankan civil war provides fresh insights into the chief of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam ( LTTE ) , and the roles played ... <p> Ten veteran media personalities who have rendered a yeoman service in journalism are to be honoured at the 69th anniversary convention of the Sri Lanka Press Association and the D F Kariyakarawana Memorial Journalism Awards on Tuesday , December 17 , at the Sri Lanka Foundation Auditorium . The veterans who are to be felicitated are Daya Lankapura , ... <p> By Justina Nixon-Saintil Project Syndicate , Exclusive to the Sunday Times in Sri Lanka NEW YORK -- With artificial intelligence poised to reshape industries worldwide , a paradox is emerging . Despite growing demand for people with the knowledge to leverage the technology 's potential , AI-related skills remain in short supply . The scarcity of AI-related skills -- from proficiency in machine ... <p> By Dr Channa Ratnatunga In a contemplative mood , I wondered ; It could be conceptualised according to Buddhist philosophy , that in reality , we as humans are , Time Travellers in Sansara . All life-forms , it could be also alleged , that they too could be so classified as well . That they too are in varying stages of ' mental-evolution ( in ...
