<h> An insight into Global Terrorism trends 2024 <p> As we step into 2025 , there are indications of a sustained escalation in the tempo of global terrorist activities from diverse threat groups . During 2024 the intricate interplay of ideological fervor , geopolitical shifts and technological advancements is poised to define the global terrorism landscape in unprecedented ways . Concurrently , the resurgence of state-supported terrorism ( by some powerful nations ) amplifies challenges for security forces , contributing to a more volatile and intricate security landscape . 2025 will see the use of weaponized drones by terror cells and precision attacks by " loitering munitions " . There will be challenges to " air " security as this new dimension , augmented with " swarm tactics " unleashes its airborne violence . World peace will be challenged and harassed . <p> Following the 7 October Hamas attack and Israel 's robust response a third wave of global Jihadi terrorism is blossoming . Comparable to the aftermath of al-Qaeda 's attack of the World Trade Centers in 2001 and the U.S. response marking the first wave , and the second wave was catalyzed by the Islamic State 's ( IS ) proclamation of a caliphate in 2014 . <p> The current wave is evolving in the wake of the Hamas attack and subsequent Gaza operations by Israel . The main protagonist within the Jihadi milieu , the IS group is poised to escalate its activities . Having transitioned from a centralised caliphate to a decentralized organisational entity ( with multi-national foreign fighters ) , IS has proven to be a formidable challenge on the global stage . <p> The surge in radicalisation within once peaceful Muslim communities , coupled with the mobilisation of threat groups , significantly heightens the probability of future attacks worldwide . Consequently , as we move into 2025 , the potential for attacks by foreign actors ( with various ideologies and motives ) in Sri Lanka can not be discounted . This is not a pessimistic warning but there is possibility of foreign terror groups ( already active in South East Asia ) exploiting and abusing the friendly elements of our beautiful culture , and manipulating vulnerable locals to " act out " with violence . However our formidable Armed Forces and prudent Intelligence agencies are very capable to face any such threat . <p> Globally we have witnessed terror acts -- shown on international news channels . Based on that one can anticipate attack scenarios leaning towards strikes on targets with high concentrations of people , utilising methods ranging from knives and small weapons to the use of vehicles as battering rams . This is not to be taken as " isolated incidents " - every human life is precious . While these may lack the symbolism of a major attack , they can inflict fear on an individual level and negatively impact tourism . Some terror groups may feel compelled to orchestrate more ambitious attacks <p> Far-right terrorism <p> As far-right terrorism gains further momentum , an escalation in attacks is anticipated from racially and ethnically motivated violent extremists , including White supremacists and neo-Nazis . Many xenophobic populist movements have resorted to political violence to express their objectives . Both Europe and the U.S. have witnessed a surge in militant right-wing extremist groups . <p> Right-wing extremism refers to political ideologies and movements characterised by extreme conservative views , nationalist tendencies andauthoritarian beliefs.Far-right terrorism in the West continues to be characterized as small independent groups or lone actors targeting government institutions and minorities through small-arm attacks and assassinations . We can define extremism as follows : " Political opinions that are intolerant toward opposing interests and divergent opinions . Extremism forms the ideological foundation for political violence . Radical and reactionary extremists often rationalise and justify acts of violence committed on behalf of their cause . " <p> Organised hate groups such as the Ku Klux Klan and various incarnations of Hitler 's National Socialist ( Nazi ) Party have existed in the United States for decades . However , the advent of extremist paramilitary groups oriented toward survivalism , outdoor skills , guerrilla training , and outright sedition is a new phenomenon . These groups are bound by a shared hostility to any form of government above the county level , the vilification of Jews and nonwhites as children of Satan , an obsession with achieving the religious and racial purification of the United States . <p> Techno Terror <p> In the realm of operational strategies , terrorist groups are actively exploring emerging technologies to magnify the impact of their attacks . A noticeable trend over the past few years involves militants learning and adapting tactics from counterparts in different conflict zones , leading to more sophisticated terrorist acts.In addition , while the current level of the nuclear , biological , chemical , and radiological ( NBCR ) threat remains relatively low , technological advancements pose the potential to alter its trajectory significantly . New technologies , such as artificial intelligence , bioengineering , and 3D printing- emerge as noteworthy developments in the technology sector that could elevate the NBCR threat . The dual-use nature of chemical materials and the technology for weaponising these agents introduce a new dimension to the threat faced by counter- terrorism authorities . <p> Cyber-crime and terrorism <p> The world community has entered the age of the information boom . Each of us is becoming increasingly dependent on the information circulating in global computer networks , on its reliability , protection , and security . <p> Cybercriminals are using various types of attacks that allow them to penetrate corporate networks , seize control over them , or block exchanges of information . They also use computer viruses , including network worms , which modify or delete data or block the operation of computer systems . The weapons of cybercriminals are constantly being improved , and their tools for mounting information attacks are becoming increasingly refined . In the future , we can expect to see new nontraditional types of network attacks and computer crimes . <p> The goal of most criminal acts is to generate a profit . To enjoy their ill-gotten gains , criminals and terrorist groups commonly seek to disguise the illegal source of those profits.Money laundering is the process of dealing in , disguising or concealing the origin of illicit funds to make it appear legitimate . <p> Terrorism financing refers to the means and methods that terrorist organisations use to finance activities that pose a threat to national and international security . The money that enables terrorist organisations to carry out terrorist activities can come from both legitimate and criminal sources . <p> A particular concern is that global computer networks present unique new opportunities for facilitating the laundering of proceeds from criminal activity . This phenomenon is manifested in the creation and operation of so-called " virtual banks " . The main problem is that such banks operate with very little oversight , and it is not always clear where crimes involving them are committed.Terrorism financing and the ways in which it intersects with organised criminal activities including drug trafficking , arms trafficking , smuggling of migrants , and kidnapping-for-ransom is increasingly attracting the attention of the international community . <p> The Global Terrorism Index 2024 ( GTI ) highlights that terrorism remains a serious global threat , with total deaths from terrorism increasing by 22% . <p> The central Sahel region has conclusively overtaken the Middle East as terrorism 's epicentre with Islamic State ( IS ) and Jamaat Nusrat Al-Islam wal Muslimeen ( JNIM ) , a franchise of Al-Qaeda , being the most active terrorist organisation . Violent conflict remains the primary driver of terrorism , with over 90% of attacks and 98% of terrorism deaths in 2023 taking place in countries in conflict . Terrorism also thrives in areas of political instability ; it is imperative that current political tensions and minor conflicts do not escalate and that current conflicts are resolved , otherwise further increases in terrorism are likely.Left unchecked regional instabilities could fan the flames of a new wave of terrorism . <p> Indeed , counterterrorism forces will grapple with the increasingly defragmented and decentralized nature of the terrorism threat , making resilience a pivotal factor in addressing the evolving challenges of global security in 2024.
