<h> A Hope for Peace <p> " Peace I leave with you ; my peace I give to you . Let not your hearts be troubled , neither let them be afraid . " John 14:27 <p> Peace is the theme of Christmas and Christianity itself , but this year , the flames of conflict are not far from Bethlehem , the birthplace of Jesus even as we celebrate that Holy Day -- Christmas , which marks His birth . In fact , the War in Gaza has killed nearly 45,000 , mostly women and children who had nothing to do with the rebel movement there . It is just revolting that a war is taking place in the very Holy Land that Jesus himself walked on and where four major religions originated . <p> Elsewhere , a war is raging in Ukraine/Russia , which too has killed thousands of combatants and civilians . And there are dozens more forgotten conflicts mainly in Africa and the Middle East that still kill thousands every year . We can relate to the horrors of conflict as we experienced it firsthand for almost 30 years . <p> The answer to conflict is not more conflict -- peace is the only way out . In this context , we hope that the current negotiations between Israel and Hamas will end in a permanent ceasefire and a de-escalation of the conflict . Perhaps Christmas is the ideal time for working towards peace in the Middle East region . <p> But peace is not only about nations living in harmony with each other . It comes all the way down to the individual level . This is why they say that Christmas is a time for Giving and for Forgiving . " Judge not , and you will not be judged ; condemn not , and you will not be condemned ; forgive , and you will be forgiven " Luke 6:37 . <p> If we can resolve the conflicts that arise at family level , it could permeate the wider society as well . Hope for a better future endures at Christmas because man alone is capable of reason and compassion . When we allow ourselves to reflect , we understand that power to overcome hate is rooted in love . This is all the more important in the world we now inhabit . We can do better if we put our heart and soul into it . <p> Christmas is also an occasion to look back at the life of Jesus Christ and learn many lessons that are appropriate for our lives even today , more than 2,000 years later . After all , it is often said that history is His Story . Throughout his life , he served the poor , the downtrodden and the helpless . Helping others should be our mission in life too and such kindness can be infectious . " Whoever is generous to the poor lends to the Lord , and he will repay him for his deed . " Proverbs 19:17 <p> One obstacle that may prevent us from celebrating Christmas in a more spiritual way is the excessive commercialisation of Christmas right around the world . Given the inexorable pull of commercialism , we too get caught up in celebrating this significant day in purely materialistic terms . <p> Around the world , many children apparently think that Christmas marks the birthday of Santa Claus , that jolly character who supposedly comes down the chimney to leave gifts for well-behaved children on Christmas Eve . We must look beyond the lights and the decorations to discern the true meaning of Christmas . Christians must take time to truly remember the tenets of their faith and reflect on exactly why this day is important . The idea is that there is a task for each of us in the grand scheme of life . " We are God 's masterpiece . He has created us anew in Jesus Christ , so we can do the Good Things he planned for us long ago . " Ephesians 2:7 <p> Some of these tasks do not require any money at all . If you know someone who is living alone and in need of help , just spend some time with them . If you know someone who might not be able to have a hearty meal on this holiest of days , make that wish come true . But good deeds should not be limited to one day of the year -- it is a lifelong commitment that pays it forward every day . And purge any evil thoughts from your heart that may hinder your progress . " Turn away from evil and do good " Psalm 34:14 <p> Of course , reflecting on the spiritual side of Christmas does not mean that it should be a somber affair devoid of joy . Jesus Christ brought joy to a forsaken world and gave hope to millions who followed in his footsteps . To this day , joy and hope are central themes of Christmas . It is , in fact , the ideal occasion to spread both in abundance . " Rejoice in hope , be patient in tribulation , be constant in prayer " Romans 12:12 <p> Indeed , Christmas is an ideal time to be determined to face the trials and tribulations of life with patience and fortitude . Life is not a bed of roses but faith and prayer offer a path that helps us to face the challenges coming our way . As the Bible itself points out " all things are possible for one who believes " . Mark 9:23
