<h> 2024 : A pivotal year of political shifts , economic recovery and global upheaval <p> From ground-breaking advancements in Artificial Intelligence ( AI ) to democratic upends , 2024 has been a transformative year . Political realignments , economic challenges and new global conflicts have reshaped the world order , setting the stage for a complicated 2025 . <p> This year marked a monumental shift in Sri Lanka 's political landscape . President Anura Kumara Dissanayake won the public 's mandate , securing 55 percent of the vote in September . His victory marked the first time a third-party candidate being elected President . <p> Come November , the Parliamentary polls caused further setbacks to seven-decades of UNP-SLFP dominated politics . The centre-left NPP , led by the JVP , won stronghold after stronghold including the indomitable Northern and Eastern electorates , with the exception of Batticaloa . Pundits said the reorganisation of the political map was an end to communal politics and the beginning of a unified national identity playing a larger role in Sri Lankan society . <p> Greater accountability and transparency to eliminate decades of graft and corruption in governance were all on the ballot in this year 's elections . <p> As the polls clearly showed , the Sri Lankan public had grown alienated from traditional parties and the political elite which dominated for over 75 years . The demand for reforms in Government has gained momentum since the 2022 Aragalaya and the vast majority chose the NPP as a vehicle to exact that change . <p> Cynics on both the Left and Right disagreed that the NPP could overturn decades of rot ingrained in Sri Lanka 's political culture . While the Left accuses the NPP of compromising with the neoliberal establishment and abandoning socialism , the right says that the party 's ' honeymoon ' with the public will be over soon given the harsh economic realities . <p> Stumbling blocks <p> However , the Government is not without a few stumbling blocks . The scandal over education qualifications of a few of its members including the Speaker is one example . The Speaker 's swift resignation , after his supposed doctorate was brought to light , has been lauded by constituents who said it shows the NPP Government 's commitment to transparency while others decry it as political shenanigans . <p> The challenges posed by Toque Macaques and the fluctuating availability of rice have tested the resilience of the newly-formed Government . While the Sri Lankan public has shown an increasing degree of self-awareness , recognising that complex issues need time and steady effort to resolve , the political rhetoric often fails to reflect this reality . Instead , fiery speeches and empty promises continue to dominate the stage , doing little to address the frustrations of a populace craving meaningful action and transparency . <p> 2024 has been dubbed ' The Year of Elections ' : more than 100 countries around four billion voters -- approximately half of the world 's population -- were eligible to vote in elections this year , including eight of the world 's 10 most populous nations -- Bangladesh , Brazil , India , Indonesia , Mexico , Pakistan , Russia , and the United States ; in addition , the EU held elections for the European Parliament in June . <p> The U.S. Presidential election gained the largest media attention as President-elect Donald Trump secured a second term in office ; bouncing back from his 2020 loss by winning the Electoral College and all swing states , in addition to the popular vote . The second Trump Presidency is expected to make significant changes to America 's foreign policy -- especially regarding de-escalating ongoing conflicts in the Middle East and the war between Ukraine and Russia . Trump also pledged to raise tariffs on imports to stimulate U.S. domestic production , which will send huge ripples in the global economy . <p> Sri Lanka 's economy is getting back on track after facing its worst crisis since independence , marking a major milestone in 2024 by successfully completing its international bond restructuring , a critical step toward financial recovery following its 2022 debt default . The deal involved exchanging USD 12.5 billion in defaulted bonds and back interest for new GDP- and governance-linked instruments , with debt service payments reduced by USD 9.5 billion over four years under an IMF-backed plan . <p> The agreement , achieved after two years of negotiations , reduced the net present value of bonds by 40.3 percent and secured debt relief of USD 17 billion . Creditors , including global players such as BlackRock and Amundi , supported the plan , overcoming initial scepticism . China also backed equal treatment for all creditors . <p> President Dissanayake and Treasury Secretary Mahinda Siriwardana hailed the deal as a turning point , emphasising its role in restoring economic stability . With lower bond coupon rates , extended maturities , and governance reforms , the restructuring promises significant fiscal relief and economic recovery . <p> With the new administration 's anti-corruption agenda , markets are responding positively- reflecting renewed investor confidence and optimism for future growth . <p> The year was also shaken by political upheavals and escalating conflict . <p> Freedom fighters <p> The Bangladesh quota reform movement began as a student-led protest against the country 's Supreme Court 's reinstatement of a 30 percent job quota for descendants of freedom fighters , which students said limited merit-based opportunities . The protests rapidly evolved into a nationwide uprising fuelled by public anger over Government corruption , human rights abuses and economic mismanagement . <p> The Government 's violent response , including the deployment of armed forces , a shoot-at-sight curfew , and an internet blackout , exacerbated tensions . Hundreds were killed , thousands injured , and mass arrests followed , sparking global condemnation . Protesters expanded their demands to include accountability for violence , a ban on the ruling party 's student wing , and the resignation of Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina . <p> On December 8 , 2024 , the Assad regime collapsed during a major opposition offensive led by Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) and the Turkish-backed Syrian National Army . The capture of Damascus ended the Assad family 's five-decade rule , which began with Hafez-al-Assad 's 1971 coup . Bashar -al-Assad fled to Russia , joining his exiled family , and was granted asylum . <p> We also saw the Israel-Hamas war escalate into a broader conflict this year with Israel 's invasion of southern Lebanon to combat Hezbollah forces and Houthi 's targeting global shipping through the Red Sea in solidarity with the Palestinians . More than 45,000 people have been killed in the Gaza strip as human rights groups and the UN have declared a humanitarian crisis as a result of the Israel-Hamas war . <p> Both sides have blamed each other for violating the ceasefire . On December 1 , the truce ended with Hamas alleging that Israel rejected a hostage exchange deal to prolong the truce , and Hamas then launched rockets into Sderot . <p> There has been a surge of anti-Semitism around the world , due to the Israel-Hamas war . This year was rife with news reports of vandalised synagogues and Jews being assaulted and even killed . <p> In November 2024 , Chabad rabbi Zvi Kogan was found murdered in Al Ain , UAE . Emirati officials said he was abducted by three Uzbek nationals who fled to Turkey , where authorities apprehended and extradited them to the UAE . Also in November , a terror plot targeting Israelis in Arugam bay was thwarted by Sri Lankan authorities thanks to reports by Indian intelligence agencies . <p> Record-breaking temperatures <p> The year was disastrous for the environment . 2024 is set to be the hottest on record -- the first six months had record-breaking temperatures , extending the streak that started in 2023 to 13 months , with the world 's hottest day in history recorded on July 22 . <p> In Sri Lanka , environmentalists said that the climate crisis is escalating the human-elephant conflict and poor harvests . Scientists are setting off alarm bells as conditions worsen year-on-year . <p> The most shocking studies this year found microplastics in human bodies including our bloodstream , brain and reproductive organs . But it was not all panic when it comes to plastics in 2024 ; scientists at RIKEN developed a strong plastic that breaks down in seawater , avoiding microplastic pollution . <p> Speaking of scientific developments , Artificial Intelligence took front and centre in headlines this year . In 2024 , AI innovation mainly centred around chatbots , with capabilities such as voice cloning , image generation , transcribing , music-making and realistic video-generation . <p> As the media , we are trying our best to strike a balance with the new technology . The press is being accused of using ChatGPT but who can really point a finger at this point ? As a matter of fact , we might just be seeing glimpses of a future where many jobs will be automated . Roles involving rule-based , repetitive tasks or ones where interaction is primarily standardised will be replaced by AI . Jobs that are most likely to be automated by 2030 include cashiers , telemarketers , data entry clerks , and customer service agents . <p> 2024 was a year of profound change -- it showcased humanity 's resilience , innovation , and the challenges ahead . It highlighted the need for accountable governance , sustainable practices , and ethical technological integration to navigate an increasingly complex world .
