<h> After Syria , more aggression in 2025 ? <p> Over the Christmas festival , beginning with Christmas Eve , Israeli forces were burning northern Gaza 's last functioning hospital after detaining 200+ staff and forcing out patients into the winter cold . Yemen 's western population centres , ports and airports were bombed literally hundreds of times in that same period . And , Russian forces launched scores of assaults across Eastern Ukraine , capturing hundreds of square kilometres , with Ukrainian units now cut off from supply lines . <p> Iran , alarmed by the West 's military occupation of two-thirds of Syrian territory and installation of a puppet regime in Damascus , has , meanwhile , announced national military defence exercises , involving the numerically biggest armed forces in West Asia . <p> Even as Lankans tried to celebrate the Holy Nativity , they were anxiously praying for their loved ones in that now wholly war-torn region to the west of South Asia . This festive season , much of South Asia , with millions of migrant workers now in warring West Asia , can not be partying as much as praying for their loved ones and their all-important livelihoods . <p> In churches across Asia , Africa and other Third World countries , the commemoration of the Nativity this year must uneasily acknowledge the enormous rates of killing and destruction and total dislocation of human life in that very Holy Land of a religious founder 's Birth . While the already impoverished populations of war-affected West Asia directly suffer genocide and conquest , much of the Third World 's population face rising food and fuel prices , risk of livelihood loss and , other life-changing woes , due to the global affects of West Asia 's chaos . <p> Certainly , church pastors in this country 's Christian community , preached critically on Palestine 's ongoing tragedy in their Christmas sermons on the Nativity of Christ . Prayers during Mass were for both the victims as well as the perpetrators . News media also reported that pro-Palestine anti-war protests continued in the country right through the Season . <p> Confronting domestic economic crisis and institutional decay , Sri Lanka 's own new rulers must appreciate their country 's improved diplomatic credibility as shown in the successful first Presidential foreign visit earlier this month , to India . That adroit geopolitical gesture helps seal our giant neighbouring state 's commitment to supportive relations with Colombo , support that would be crucial in the event of worsening world conditions . <p> Today , West Asia is again beset by a similar scale of regional war as it had to suffer during the Western invasions of the Persian Gulf region in the late 1990s-early 2000s period . The scale of regional economic disruption has , however , yet to reach that same catastrophic scale that threw out entire migrant worker populations . <p> Belligerent proxies <p> Despite all the Western posturing about ' peace processes ' and ' negotiations ' , the violence has only worsened , despite world condemnation of the blatant genocide and sustained belligerence by region-based proxies of the Western power bloc . Israel is the principal region-based belligerent , attacking neighbouring states and beyond , militarily and politically sustained by the West . <p> NATO member state Turkiye has also played a pivotal role in West Asia on behalf of the Western alliance in systematically undermining Syria . Turkiye forcibly occupied large parts of that country even as Ankara supported anti-Damascus insurgent groups that most recently toppled the repressive Assad regime . The Turkiye armed forces occupying northern Syria , work in tandem with the US military units that have continued to occupy the entire , thinly-populated but oil-rich , eastern region of Syria ever since the US invaded neighbouring Iraq . <p> With Syria virtually dismantled as a state and , a supposedly ' Islamist ' militia coalition as a West-backed ' interim ' government in Damascus , Israel and NATO has seemingly now expanded its aggressive military operations across West Asia . The collapse of the Arab nationalist ' Baathist ' dictatorship in Damascus has somewhat reduced the pan-Arab geopolitical pressure against the Israeli Zionist state coming from its north . <p> The Lebanese Hezbollah political movement , whose Iranian-backed militia is a persistent ( if barely effective ) paramilitary resistance in support of Palestinian independence , has now been severely emasculated by the loss of supply lines provided by , a similarly pro-Palestinian , Assad regime in Damascus . This eases the pressure on Israel from its Lebanese border . <p> Solidarities <p> Analysts are watching to see how much further the West and its proxy colony , Israel , can go at this juncture , in dismantling local trans-Arab and trans-Moslem solidarities that stand in their way to regional dominance . The complex of indigenous Arab-Muslim-modernist political networks and alliances that stretch across West Asia are the ultimate obstacle to the West 's uncontrolled access to the vital energy resources of this region . <p> The destruction of the strong Syrian state controlled by a , no doubt , unpopular regime , is epochal in terms of the history of West Asia and the Arab nationalist movements that emerged with European colonial withdrawal after World War 2 . That colonial withdrawal was , however , paradoxically , then replaced by the imposition of a fresh European-populated colony , Israel , which has pursued an attempted regional dominance to ensure its own survival . <p> How much more and longer can these former colonial powers , that now aspire to a continued global hegemony , sustain their current geopolitical manoeuvres that disrupt West Asia 's ethno-religious and cultural affinities and transnational loyalties ? Can popularly elected Arab and Moslem regimes be undermined ? Can unpopular Arab and Moslem monarchies already bought up by the West , be further enticed by petro-dollar investments ? <p> With Palestine 's continuing resistance to European Jewish colonisation , this martyred nation remains at the centre of this volatile regional complex of West Asia . Decades of Palestinian ' barefoot ' insurgency by tiny , poorly armed and equipped , militias embedded within small neighbourhoods inside Palestine , as well as from refugee camps in neighbouring states , has been the well-springs of this regional resistance to the foreign occupiers . <p> Gaza has now become the tragic heart of this , historically , last venture of European colonial occupation . <p> Horror <p> The United Nations ' own UN News agency quotes WHO and UNICEF officials as reporting " horror " and " starvation " and " famine " in the Gaza Strip . This is after this militarily encircled territory has been subjected to 14 months of unceasing military onslaught by the West-sustained Israeli Defence Forces against the Palestinian population trapped there . <p> Another top UN official , Dr Francesca Albanese ( Italian legal expert ) , has already formally labelled Israel 's military operations against Palestinian Arabs as " genocidal " . The UN now says that in Gaza alone , the official fatalities record shows over 45,000 certified dead since late October 2023 when the Israeli Defence Forces , with full Western material and political backing , launched military operations on the territory . <p> Other international experts estimate that the actual number of fatalities from the Israeli ground invasion , artillery and missile bombardment and , aerial and Naval strikes , could actually be nearer 200,000 . With at least 65 per cent of the Strip 's buildings now flattened by the IDF operations , many thousands more bodies are estimated as buried under the rubble . <p> " Virtually all 1.1 million children in Gaza are in urgent need of protection and mental health support , " another UN report says . Gaza has an estimated 2.3 million residents . They include traditionally descended Palestinians indigenous to the Strip as well as 1.1 million people now living for generations in eight permanent refugee camps dotting the Strip . Their forebears were chased out of their native home areas in other parts of Palestine when European Jewish settler militia invaded the country in 1948 . <p> Iran <p> With the fall of Baathist Syria , Iran has begun preparing for possible greater Israeli military adventurism . But given its size and own geostrategic location that is of immense value to other global power blocs , namely China and its allied SCO and BRICS networks of that vast economic constituency of the Global South , the Islamic Republic of Iran is no push-over . <p> Iran is far too important to both China as well as Russia in today 's world power balance . Even as NATO attempts to ' bleed ' Russia by sustaining a war in Ukraine , Russia itself is too vast a territory rich in minerals and industrial economy to be undermined that easily . <p> At the same time , Russia is too valued an ally against the domineering West for emerging non-Western powers to allow it to be weakened , especially given Moscow 's crucial countervailing nuclear capability .
