<p> Attacks:There are no safe places for the militarily-dominated population in Gaza , who find themselves subjected to airstrikes and other missile attackson buildings , homes and many essentialfacilities , as well as constant gunfire and invasions by Israeli forces.The Israeli Navy continues to fire missiles , targeting facilities and buildings along the entire Gaza shoreline . <p> Victims:30more people have been killedwithin the past 48 hours , bringing the total number killed in Gaza since 7 Octoberto at least44,532 . Another 84have been wounded , bringing that total to 105,538 . The daily average number of men , women and children killed in Gaza is at least 105 ; that of those injured is now more than 249 . <h> New UN map of Occupied West Bank <p> The new West Bank map is a revision of the May 2023 poster-size map , providing updated information on the imposed Occupation restrictions of movement and population-control that dominate Palestinian pedestrian and vehicular movement across the West Bank . See online <p> Gaza now has the highest number of child amputees per capita in the world -- many losing limbs and undergoing surgery without even anaesthesia " he added . The World Health Organisation estimates that " one in four people injured during the war sustained life-changing injuries and will need rehabilitation services , including care for amputations and spinal cord injuries , " the UNRWA chief said . Since launching its genocidal war on Gaza following a Hamas attack in October last year , Israel has killed over 44,500 Palestinians -- most of them women and children -- and injured more than 105,000 , according to official figures . The second year of the genocide in Gaza has drawn widespread international condemnation , with starvation tactics and blocking humanitarian aid deliveries denounced as deliberate attempts to destroy an entire population . <p> Researchers documenting violence against Palestinian women say so many have been attacked by Israeli soldiers since 7 October , the silence that once accompanied assaults has been shattered Palestinian women have been sexually assaulted by Israeli soldiers throughout the past 75 years , but researchers say they are only beginning to speak publicly about their experiences as incidents have mounted since the 7 October attacks . The cases are so similar , despite happening in different locations and involving different branches of the Israeli military and police , that those documenting them suspect a directive has been handed down.Read more <p> Palestinians in Hebron suffer routine , severe abuse at the hands of Israeli occupation soldiers , Israeli rights group B'Tselem revealed in its latest report today . It added that the acts of violence were aimed at men , women , teenagers and children . The report , titled ' Unleashed ' , describes how " the wave of violence unleashed on Palestinians this past year has changed norms of conduct in the military . " Over 20 testimonies were collected by B'Tselem from Palestinians who were abused by Israeli occupation soldiers between May and August 2024 . Victims describe being randomly seized by soldiers , mostly as they were walking down the streets of the city , going about their daily affairs.Read more <p> Take care , be aware . Be aware that Israel and the Israeli lobby want nothing more , for example , than that you , the reader , will think of Gaza as a separate , nascent state ; will think of Hamas as a terrorist organisation , ruling that nascent state . The Israel lobby can not contemplate that you will think of Palestinians resisting an illegal occupation , and fighting for their self-determination , along with their fellow Palestinians in the West Bank and East Jerusalem , and , indeed , in Lebanon.Read more <p> Moshe Ya'alon , a former Israeli Defence Minister and army chief , has caused an uproar in Israel by publicly accusing the Israeli government of ethnically cleansing Palestinians in Gaza . Twenty-four hours after he first made the remark he was invited by a television interviewer on Monday to apologize . He refused . " What I said accurately reflects what 's happening on the ground , " he said , adding that he intentionally used the term " ethnic cleansing . " Ya'alon defined it as " evacuating civilians from their homes and demolishing those homes , as is happening in Beit Hanoun and Beit Lahiya , " in northern Gaza . <p> In his initial remarks , Ya'alon said Israel 's aim in Gaza was to " conquer , to annex , to purify an ethnic identity . " He added : " They are cleansing the area from the Arabs . " Ya'alon said these ministers National Security Minister Itamar Ben-Gvir and Finance Minister Betzalel Smotritch should have been issued arrest warrants by the International Criminal Court with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defence Minister Yoav Gallant . <p> Israeli Army -- hundreds of olive trees uprooted:Qalqiliya -- Israeli forces bulldozed an area of ? ? agricultural land , near the Annexation Wall adjacent to the town of Jayus , and uprooted around 300 olive trees . <p> Israeli Army -- pastoral and economic sabotage : Bethlehem -- 10:20 , the Israeli Army demolished two livestock shelters and a farm building in the town of Nahalin , as well as a shop , selling building material . <p> Leslie Bravery is a Londoner with vivid World War Two memories of the Nazi blitz on his home town . In 1947/1948 His father explained to him what was happening to the Palestinians thus : " Any ideology or political movement that creates refugees in the process of realising its ambitions must be inhuman and should be opposed and condemned as unacceptable . " What followed confirmed this assessment of the Zionist entity a hundredfold . Now a retired flamenco guitarist , with a lifelong interest in the tragedy of what happened to the Palestinian people , he tries to publicise their plight . Because the daily injustices they suffer barely get a mention in the mainstream news media , Leslie edits/compiles a daily newsletter , In Occupied Palestine , for the Palestine Human Rights Campaign . These days , to preserve his sanity , he enjoys taking part in a drama group whenever possible !
