<p> Attacks:There are no safe places for the militarily-dominated population in Gaza , who find themselves subjected to airstrikes and other missile attackson buildings , homes and many essentialfacilities , as well as constant gunfire and invasions by Israeli forces.The Israeli Navy continues to fire missiles , targeting facilities and buildings along the entire Gaza shoreline . <p> Victims:38more people have been killedwithin the past 48 hours , bringing the total number killed in Gaza since 7 October2023 to at least45,399 . Another 137have been wounded , bringing that total to 107,940 . The daily average number of men , women and children killed in Gaza is at least 102and , thatof those injured , is nowmore than242 . <h> OCHA : <h> West Bank <p> Since midnight on 07 October 2023 , Occupation forces have been imposing a complete closure around the whole of the West Bank , **26;1831;TOOLONG even permit -- holders ) from entering both the city of Jerusalem as well as Israel , otherwise than for especially -- negotiated exceptions . Permanent military checkpoints impose severe travel restrictions within the Occupied West Bank . <p> Israeli Army attacks -- 5 wounded in refugee camps -- homes and other property destroyed with explosives : Tulkarem -- Since 01:00 on 24 December , Israeli forces , storming the city as well as the Nur Shams and Tulkarem refugee camps , have been invading homes , wounding five residents , so far including one woman , one elderly person and a paramedic named Ahmed Hattab . Seven residents have also been taken prisoner . The Israeli Army used explosives to destroy a house in the Nur Shams refugee camp , as well as another in the Tulkarem refugee camp . Explosives were also used to demolish shops , in the Nur Shams refugee camp , as well as a warehouse in the city . <p> Israeli Army attack -- 1killed -- home damaged by anti-tank grenades : Tulkarem -- 16:30 , the Israeli Army , firing live ammunition , stormed the town of Quffin and fired anti-tank rifle grenades at a house , killing a resident : Ahmed Mahmoud Khaled Amarneh . <p> Israeli Army attack -- explosives used to destroy property : Tulkarem -- Israeli troopsused explosives to destroy shops as well as a warehouse in the city . <p> Home invasion -- 8 taken prisoner : Tulkarem -- 10:00 , Israeli forces raided the town of Bal'a , besieging a house and takingprisoner eight residents . <p> Home invasion and population -- control : Qalqiliya -- 02:00 , Israeli troops raided the village of Izbit Salman , invaded a home and ordered a resident to report for interrogation at Israeli Military Intelligence . <p> Home invasions -- 2 taken prisoner : Qalqiliya -- 02:20 , the IsraeliArmyraided the town of Azzun and invaded seven homes , taking prisoner two residents . <p> Home invasion -- 2 taken prisoner:Salfit -- 10:20 , Israeli troops raided the town of Burqinand searched a house , taking prisoner two people . <p> Israeli Occupation population -- control:Jerusalem -- 11:00 , in the Old City , the Israeli Occupation set up alargeMenorah ( candelabra ) in Al-Buraq Square , as well as on the Arab Heritage Centrebuilding , clearly visible from the Al-Aqsa Mosque . <p> Israeli Army economic sabotage and population -- control:Jerusalem -- 16:50 , the Israeli Army , in the village of al-Jib , forced a resident , Muhammad Mahmoud Abu Diya , to demolish his ownpoultry farm -- or otherwise be faced with an extortionate bill from Occupation forces for its destruction . <p> Occupation settlement land-grab and population -- control : Tubas -- 11:50 , Israeli Occupation settlers forcedoff farmers from their land , near the North Jordan Valley village of Bardala , and established a new settlement outpost on it . <p> Occupation settler arrogance : Jericho -- 10:00 , Occupation settlers built a pergola , with the Star of David on it , in the al-Auja waterfall area . <p> Occupation settler arson : Jericho -- 23:50 , Israeli Occupation settlers raided the Herod 's Palace in the city and set fire to a nearby archaeological area . <p> Occupation settler population -- control : Hebron -- 12:00 , Israeli settlers attacked residents , in the Mafqara area east of Yatta , and closed the entrance to it . They also headed to the Khallet al-Daba ' area and terrorised residents . <p> Leslie Bravery is a Londoner with vivid World War Two memories of the Nazi blitz on his home town . In 1947/1948 His father explained to him what was happening to the Palestinians thus : " Any ideology or political movement that creates refugees in the process of realising its ambitions must be inhuman and should be opposed and condemned as unacceptable . " What followed confirmed this assessment of the Zionist entity a hundredfold . Now a retired flamenco guitarist , with a lifelong interest in the tragedy of what happened to the Palestinian people , he tries to publicise their plight . Because the daily injustices they suffer barely get a mention in the mainstream news media , Leslie edits/compiles a daily newsletter , In Occupied Palestine , for the Palestine Human Rights Campaign . These days , to preserve his sanity , he enjoys taking part in a drama group whenever possible ! <h> 6 COMMENTS <p> It 's been the Plan since 1948 . The elimination or exclusion of the Palestinian people to form the U$$ Zionist backed Jewish Israehell . Backed by billions of U$$ dollars to buy weapons , bombs and aircraft . This atrocity is now naked with the Gaza Genocide.
