<p> " All of us , Bangladesh , the EU and most importantly the Rohingya themselves , wish to see returns . But , conditions for safe , sustainable , voluntary and dignified return do not currently exist , " he told UNB , sharing his experience of visiting the Rohingya camp in Cox 's Bazar recently . <p> Ambassador and Head of Delegation of the European Union to Bangladesh Michael Miller has said they all understand that the solution to the protracted Rohingya crisis is " political " and said they should work with Dhaka to promote a ' Whole of Cox 's Bazar ' approach . <p> " All of us , Bangladesh , the EU and most importantly the Rohingya themselves , wish to see returns . But , conditions for safe , sustainable , voluntary and dignified return do not currently exist , " he told UNB , sharing his experience of visiting the Rohingya camp in Cox 's Bazar recently . <p> In the meantime , therefore , an " evolution " is needed in the response to allow more work on resilience , said the Ambassador . <p> This means , according to him , giving due consideration to allowing the construction of sturdier shelters that will make donor funding last longer , and for which there is a series of prototypes currently being tested . <p> " It should also mean exploring how to promote greater resilience for the refugees and opening up digital education to avoid a situation in which desperate people are vulnerable to crime , exploitation and recruitment to fight in Myanmar , " Ambassador Miller said . <p> The European Union recognises the burden borne by Bangladesh in hosting the Rohingya refugees , he said . <p> Bangladesh is hosting over 1.3 million Rohingyas in Cox 's Bazar and Bhasan Char . <p> In 2024 , the EU has allocated EUR 43 million in humanitarian funding for the Rohingya response , for immediate disbursement , and a further EUR 35 million in development funding for the next three years . <p> " We are supporting both the refugees and host communities . This is why I visited Cox 's Bazar in October to understand what the situation is on the ground , to listen to Bengalis ( Bangladeshis ) and Rohingya and to consider how to maximise the impact and sustainability of our financing , " said Ambassador Miller . <p> " Security , or rather insecurity " , was the number one topic that he heard in the camps , he said . <p> " Outside the camps , we have worked , and continue to work , to promote a dynamic economy at the interface between the local economy and the camps . I only heard positive noises on our cooperation , reinforcing my sense that we should work with Dhaka to promote a ' Whole of Cox 's Bazar ' approach , " the EU envoy added . <p> " It has already received widespread international support , " said Spokesperson at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Mohammad Rafiqul Alam . <p> He expressed hope that this high-level conference will build political consensus on a realistic framework for the sustainable repatriation and reintegration of the Rohingya in Myanmar . <p> Rafiqul Alam said the plan will also play an important role in addressing the root causes of the crisis and developing a timely and comprehensive framework to address the current situation . <p> Besides , he said , the conference will focus on addressing socio-economic , environmental and security challenges , mitigating the impact of the long-term damage caused by the Rohingya situation . <p> " We also hope that the issues of increasing international commitment to resolving this problem , strengthening integrated humanitarian and development processes , and supporting accountability for crimes committed against the Rohingya population will emerge , " said the Spokesperson . <p> Chief Adviser Prof Yunus has called for an " urgent attention " to the Rohingya crisis , including convening an international conference , to find a sustainable solution to the crisis and ensuring " safe and dignified " return of the Rohingya people to Myanmar . <p> " We can not ignore the people who continue to be persecuted , uprooted and subjected to gross violations of human rights in the Rakhine State ( Myanmar ) or Gaza . No person , regardless of their number or identity , is expandable , " he said in October .
