<p> No two regime-toppling events are similar , yet there are some uncanny resemblances between the overthrow of Bashar al-Assad and Sheikh Hasina . Both seemed invincible but fell like a house of cards , clung to power for long yet disappeared within days , claimed popularity yet had little knowledge of how unpopular they had become . Both felt they stood on sturdy daises , but they were moth-eaten ones to the core . Both convinced themselves that they controlled the narrative yet were unaware that nobody trusted them . Both felt they were irreplaceable figures of history , but were replaced within days of their defeat without their people batting an eye . Both believed that ruling their people was their God-given right , hence they did n't need to take their people 's mandate . So brutal , atrocious and heartless were their reigns that both had to flee and seek asylum abroad . They had no place in their countries , which they both thought they owned . <p> The Syrian revolution is the latest piece in the ever-changing world that Bangladesh will have to deal with as it forges ahead . The big question is : do we have the requisite expertise for it ? <p> Foreign policy is among the least discussed subjects in Bangladesh . It is always shrouded in the mist of bureaucratic maze . In the 33 years of my experience with this daily , I can not recall a single instance where foreign policy was discussed by the government in any public forum . Our parliament failed itself and the voters by never bringing it up in the House . Discussions by private think tanks or newspapers could go only so far . <p> None of the reform commissions is on foreign policy . This is indicative of our own sense of priority -- or the lack of it . If not a commission , we could at least have officially brought some of our former foreign secretaries , senior bureaucrats , former ambassadors , academicians and security experts together to discuss how to navigate through the ever-changing geopolitical reality . <p> Take our relationship with India . One look at the map will tell you how vital , complex , multi-faceted and intricate our geolocation is , and the high-quality multidisciplinary expertise we need to get the best deal for ourselves . I have often wondered why we do n't have specialised institutes to study our foreign relations , especially with our big neighbour . Do we really know what our only other neighbour is all about ? The Rohingya issue should have driven home the point that we need geopolitics to solve it a long time ago . <p> Every university of repute should have courses that could produce specialists on these issues . The rise of the Arakan Army , which now controls our border with Myanmar , has suddenly brought home a new reality . Do we have the expertise to handle it , or even understand it ? <p> In my long years as the editor of The Daily Star , I realised that when we talk about relations with India , we most often think of New Delhi and Kolkata and at best Mumbai . We have very little idea of South India where India 's IT hub is located , and from where our startups and IT entrepreneurs could have learnt . How do we forge a new , win-win , non-hegemonistic and mutually beneficial and respectful relationship with India ? The answer is clearly knowledge , competence and belief in ourselves . While we have the latter , we need significant work on the first two . We need coolheaded experts to sit together , do all the calculations , make the facts public , and make a stable and mutually beneficial relationship that benefits us both . Any one-sided agreement is bound to fail . <p> The just concluded trip by the Indian foreign secretary , we ardently hope , will mark some progress in our relationship that has shown some disturbing signs lately . Honestly , we have been totally outraged and deeply disappointed at the depiction of Bangladesh by the Indian media . <p> Take the case of the repercussions of the Syrian regime change . What was Russia 's role in the sudden collapse of its long term ally -- Assad -- to maintain whom Putin invested hundreds of billions ? The common wisdom is , the Ukraine war drained too much resources from Russia . He needed to make a choice about allocating additional resources , and he chose Ukraine . So what will be Russia 's new strategy ? Will it abandon Syria ? <p> What is the story of Iran ? It did extend all its support to Assad and for a while felt comfortable being on the winning side . The destruction of Hamas in Gaza and subsequent diminishing of Hezbollah in Lebanon -- both being integral parts of the forces that helped Assad stay in power -- created the opening for the rebels to make their breakthrough . The impact on Iran is still not clear , but it definitely stands weakened . <p> Israel 's bombing of Syrian military assets -- 480 airstrikes in 48 hours -- is the clearest indication of how this war-mongering country is taking advantage of the situation . It has been more than a year since it started carrying out the most cruel and destructive bombing and killing of the Gazans . <p> Then it invaded Lebanon and killed thousands of ordinary citizens in the name of destroying Hezbollah . Israeli soldiers were spotted way into the Syrian territories around the Golan Heights , which President Donald Trump allowed Israel to annex during his first term . Israel is indiscriminately attacking some of its neighbours with complete impunity -- without the UN Security Council condemning it for such a blatant violation of international law . <p> What its policy will be vis- ? -vis Iran is the big question . When a country 's foray inside other countries goes unchallenged , in fact encouraged , how far it will take its aggression remains unclear . History has very dangerous lessons in this regard . <p> T ? rkiye has definitely emerged as a more active player with its president now holding more cards than before . <p> Relations with the US under President Trump will be quite a challenge for Bangladesh . The former prime minister 's offensive and unexplained comments on the US has left a bad taste in the mouth of the State Department officials . Trump 's message on X before the election clearly shows the nature of our future challenge . <p> Our only counterbalancing factor is the respect that Chief Adviser Prof Muhammad Yunus enjoys in the US , being one of the very few recipients in US history of the two highest civilian medals : the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2009 and the Congressional Gold Medal in 2010 . Both were bipartisan honours . <p> It is this uncertain world that Bangladesh 's foreign policy will have to navigate . The first and the most important thing we have to understand is that whatever emotion and feelings that may drive us in domestic affairs , when dealing with foreign policy , we need pragmatism . There is , of course , our own idealism and world view , but the only way forward is being a realist . While flexing muscle can be an option for the big powers , for us , making our case logically , factually and convincingly and gathering global opinion to back it is the only answer . <p> The new Bangladesh must persuasively tell its story to the world . It must be able to convince others that we want to build a free , just , inclusive , tolerant , equal and democratic society internally , and a peaceful and just international order globally . For that , words and speeches are not sufficient . We need performance that produces powerful facts , and for that we need all-round expertise . <p> No two regime-toppling events are similar , yet there are some uncanny resemblances between the overthrow of Bashar al-Assad and Sheikh Hasina . Both seemed invincible but fell like a house of cards , clung to power for long yet disappeared within days , claimed popularity yet had little knowledge of how unpopular they had become . Both felt they stood on sturdy daises , but they were moth-eaten ones to the core . Both convinced themselves that they controlled the narrative yet were unaware that nobody trusted them . Both felt they were irreplaceable figures of history , but were replaced within days of their defeat without their people batting an eye . Both believed that ruling their people was their God-given right , hence they did n't need to take their people 's mandate . So brutal , atrocious and heartless were their reigns that both had to flee and seek asylum abroad . They had no place in their countries , which they both thought they owned . <p> The Syrian revolution is the latest piece in the ever-changing world that Bangladesh will have to deal with as it forges ahead . The big question is : do we have the requisite expertise for it ? <p> Foreign policy is among the least discussed subjects in Bangladesh . It is always shrouded in the mist of bureaucratic maze . In the 33 years of my experience with this daily , I can not recall a single instance where foreign policy was discussed by the government in any public forum . Our parliament failed itself and the voters by never bringing it up in the House . Discussions by private think tanks or newspapers could go only so far . <p> None of the reform commissions is on foreign policy . This is indicative of our own sense of priority -- or the lack of it . If not a commission , we could at least have officially brought some of our former foreign secretaries , senior bureaucrats , former ambassadors , academicians and security experts together to discuss how to navigate through the ever-changing geopolitical reality . <p> Take our relationship with India . One look at the map will tell you how vital , complex , multi-faceted and intricate our geolocation is , and the high-quality multidisciplinary expertise we need to get the best deal for ourselves . I have often wondered why we do n't have specialised institutes to study our foreign relations , especially with our big neighbour . Do we really know what our only other neighbour is all about ? The Rohingya issue should have driven home the point that we need geopolitics to solve it a long time ago . <p> Every university of repute should have courses that could produce specialists on these issues . The rise of the Arakan Army , which now controls our border with Myanmar , has suddenly brought home a new reality . Do we have the expertise to handle it , or even understand it ? <p> In my long years as the editor of The Daily Star , I realised that when we talk about relations with India , we most often think of New Delhi and Kolkata and at best Mumbai . We have very little idea of South India where India 's IT hub is located , and from where our startups and IT entrepreneurs could have learnt . How do we forge a new , win-win , non-hegemonistic and mutually beneficial and respectful relationship with India ? The answer is clearly knowledge , competence and belief in ourselves . While we have the latter , we need significant work on the first two . We need coolheaded experts to sit together , do all the calculations , make the facts public , and make a stable and mutually beneficial relationship that benefits us both . Any one-sided agreement is bound to fail . <p> The just concluded trip by the Indian foreign secretary , we ardently hope , will mark some progress in our relationship that has shown some disturbing signs lately . Honestly , we have been totally outraged and deeply disappointed at the depiction of Bangladesh by the Indian media . <p> Take the case of the repercussions of the Syrian regime change . What was Russia 's role in the sudden collapse of its long term ally -- Assad -- to maintain whom Putin invested hundreds of billions ? The common wisdom is , the Ukraine war drained too much resources from Russia . He needed to make a choice about allocating additional resources , and he chose Ukraine . So what will be Russia 's new strategy ? Will it abandon Syria ? <p> What is the story of Iran ? It did extend all its support to Assad and for a while felt comfortable being on the winning side . The destruction of Hamas in Gaza and subsequent diminishing of Hezbollah in Lebanon -- both being integral parts of the forces that helped Assad stay in power -- created the opening for the rebels to make their breakthrough . The impact on Iran is still not clear , but it definitely stands weakened . <p> Israel 's bombing of Syrian military assets -- 480 airstrikes in 48 hours -- is the clearest indication of how this war-mongering country is taking advantage of the situation . It has been more than a year since it started carrying out the most cruel and destructive bombing and killing of the Gazans . <p> Then it invaded Lebanon and killed thousands of ordinary citizens in the name of destroying Hezbollah . Israeli soldiers were spotted way into the Syrian territories around the Golan Heights , which President Donald Trump allowed Israel to annex during his first term . Israel is indiscriminately attacking some of its neighbours with complete impunity -- without the UN Security Council condemning it for such a blatant violation of international law . <p> What its policy will be vis- ? -vis Iran is the big question . When a country 's foray inside other countries goes unchallenged , in fact encouraged , how far it will take its aggression remains unclear . History has very dangerous lessons in this regard . <p> T ? rkiye has definitely emerged as a more active player with its president now holding more cards than before . <p> Relations with the US under President Trump will be quite a challenge for Bangladesh . The former prime minister 's offensive and unexplained comments on the US has left a bad taste in the mouth of the State Department officials . Trump 's message on X before the election clearly shows the nature of our future challenge . <p> Our only counterbalancing factor is the respect that Chief Adviser Prof Muhammad Yunus enjoys in the US , being one of the very few recipients in US history of the two highest civilian medals : the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2009 and the Congressional Gold Medal in 2010 . Both were bipartisan honours . <p> It is this uncertain world that Bangladesh 's foreign policy will have to navigate . The first and the most important thing we have to understand is that whatever emotion and feelings that may drive us in domestic affairs , when dealing with foreign policy , we need pragmatism . There is , of course , our own idealism and world view , but the only way forward is being a realist . While flexing muscle can be an option for the big powers , for us , making our case logically , factually and convincingly and gathering global opinion to back it is the only answer . <p> The new Bangladesh must persuasively tell its story to the world . It must be able to convince others that we want to build a free , just , inclusive , tolerant , equal and democratic society internally , and a peaceful and just international order globally . For that , words and speeches are not sufficient . We need performance that produces powerful facts , and for that we need all-round expertise .
