<h> Arts-&amp;-Culture <p> To preserve the memory of July and revive the spirit of the July Movement among everyone , the anti-fascist photo exhibition organised by Bangladesh Islami Chhatra Shibir has concluded at National Museum at Shahbagh . Titled ' Frame-a-Bondi 36 July : Obbhyutthyan er Purbapor ' ( ' Framed Memories on 36 July : Before and After the Coup ' ) the display came to a close on Monday . The three-day exhibition began earlier on Saturday ( December 7 ) with the inauguration announced by Shibir 's central president Monzurul Islam at the Poet Sufia Kamal Auditorium of the National Museum . Musical Instrument Exhibition ' Harmony of Healing ' begins at AFD Concluded with the closing announcement by Secretary General of Islami Chhatra Shibir Jahidul Islam on Monday , the exhibition showcased historic photographs highlighting the moments of the July 36 Movement , and shed the spotlight on the stories behind the movement and its martyrs ' sacrifices , the consequences of the mass uprising , and the brave struggle of the students against the dictatorship . <p> Justin Sun , a Chinese cryptocurrency entrepreneur and art collector known for purchasing the famous $6.2 million banana taped to a wall at auction , has proposed buying 100,000 more bananas from the Bangladeshi vendor who sold the original fruit for just 25 cents . This unexpected offer has sparked excitement and practical challenges for the vendor , Shah Alam , 74 , and the fruit stand 's owner , Mohammad R. Islam , reports The New York Times . Entrepreneur who purchased a banana artwork for $6.2 million eats the fruit in Hong Kong The original " artwork " , sold at Sotheby 's in New York , captured worldwide attention for its price and conceptual nature . Sun now seeks to buy bananas worth about $25,000 from Alam 's stand near Sotheby 's . However , sourcing this quantity from the Bronx wholesale market and handling logistics , including packaging and transport , pose significant hurdles and costs . Alam , who earns $12 per hour working 12-hour shifts , clarified that any profit from the bulk sale would go to the stand 's owner . Alam estimated only a modest $6,000 profit would remain after expenses . " There 's not any profit in selling bananas , " Alam said , underlining the stark difference between the art piece 's exorbitant cost and the realities of running a fruit stand , the report also said . Sun , who has a history of purchasing unique and costly artworks , commented on the challenges in a text after a news event in Hong Kong , where he ate the original banana . " I am not personally familiar with the exact cost of the bananas , " he wrote , emphasising that the goal was to support Alam and highlight the artistic symbolism of the banana Fruit stand owner Islam , 53 , said he would consider sharing any potential profits with Alam and other employees . He learned about Sun 's proposal from a reporter and expressed concern over its impact . Online support for Alam has grown , with two fundraising campaigns raising over $20,000 , underscoring public interest in addressing the economic disparity highlighted by the original sale , added the report . Alam 's brother , Mohammad Alam Badsha , who also works at the stand , shared his view on Thanksgiving Day . He acknowledged the potential of accepting the bulk sale but pointed out it would not substantially change the vendors ' circumstances or address the deep inequality exposed by the $6.2 million price tag . " It 's definitely an inequality , " Badsha said , using a Bengali saying to describe the vast difference as " the difference between heaven and hell . " <p> " Harmony of Healing ' , an exhibition featuring traditional and innovative musical instruments from the region , presented by Mohammad Jakir Hossain , begun at La Galerie of Alliance Fran ? aise de Dhaka ( AFD ) in Dhaka on Monday . Music artist Baul Shafi Mondol attended the exhibition as a special guest , and Fran ? ois Grosjean , director of the Alliance Fran ? aise de Dhaka , also participated in the inauguration , among others . Jakir Hossain , born in 1994 in Gaibandha , studied music in Kolkata from 2016 to 2022 , where he learned various forms , including Indian classical , Bengali folk , Tagore songs , and modern music . After returning to Bangladesh , he explored the impact of music on humanism and healing . In 2018 , he founded " Obokalpo " , an initiative focused on preserving and developing traditional and experimental music while nurturing art and culture in vulnerable regions of Bangladesh . In addition to the display of experimental indigenous musical instruments , the exhibition will feature seminars , workshops , and Bengali folk music performances . Lucy Tripti Gomes curated the exhibition . Acrobatics featuring trained artists enthralls BSA The exhibition is open to all and will run until Friday , November 29 , from Monday to Saturday , 3 pm to 9 pm . <p> On Saturday evening , the Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy ( BSA ) hosted a unique ' Acrobatic Show ' at the National Theatre Hall auditorium in the capital . The acrobatic show was organized by the Theater and Film Department of BSA , as the academy is currently working in a variety of methods to advance the popular acrobatic art form . The acrobatic team of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy , which received special training from China , presented several enthralling performances featuring Rope Round Bill , Ariel Hoop , Blanket Balance , Barrel Balance , Chair Setting , Mount Skill , Diabo Balance , Fire/Bump , Ring Dance , Roller Balance , Ring Jump and more . At the event , the Director General of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy Dr Syed Jamil Ahmed said , " The art of Acrobatics has gained wide popularity for several hundred years . It was mentioned in " Mahua Pala " written in 1650 , proving that acrobatics was already popular before that period ; but today , its remnants survive somewhere in a dilapidated condition - and the circus that was popular during the British period is hardly seen today . " " Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy thanks the state and people of China for helping to revive this almost lost heritage of Bangladesh , and I request our trained acrobats and their instructors to make acrobatics a part of our heritage . I also want the audience to stand by the circus , because Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy can take the circus back to a strong position with your undivided support , " Syed Jamil concluded .. The program was broadcast live from the official Facebook page of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy . <p> The Ministry of Cultural Affairs on Thursday announced seven innovative projects aimed at engaging youth and revitalizing Bangladesh 's cultural landscape in the wake of the July Revolution . The announcement came during a press conference at the Secretariat , chaired by Cultural Affairs Adviser Mostofa Sarwar Farooki . The seven initiatives , designed to foster creativity and inclusivity , are : ' Remembering Monsoon Revolution , ' ' Youth Festival , ' ' Countrywide Talent Hunt , ' ' Digital Oral History Project , ' ' Bangla Academy Creative Writing Workshop and Research Project , ' ' Installation of Modern Video Projection System at the National Museum , ' and ' Show-Creator Workshops . ' Adviser Mostofa Sarwar Farooki emphasized the projects ' significance in promoting cultural unity and diversity . " The establishment of a cultural bridge is crucial after the revolution , " he said . " We want to ensure that Bangladesh represents everyone -- many people , many religions , many languages , and all cultures will be at the center of our policy . There will be no space for religious discrimination . " In the written statement of the ministry , it was informed that ' Remembering Monsoon Revolution ' will create new enthusiasm and new wave among the youth of Bangladesh . As part of this project , 8 visual content creation workshops will be organized in 8 categories by 8 top Bangladeshi creators , and 8 medium length visual content will be produced as output of the workshop while 8 new theater productions will also be created and staged . An album of Nazrul 's songs will be made with youth-favorite local artists of the country and a concert will be organized centrally in Dhaka on the occasion of its release . This concert will be telecast across the country . Besides , the July Revolution-centric photography , paintings and cartoons will be exhibited in the country through major exhibitions , according to the Ministry . A grand ' Youth Festival ' will take place from December 30 to February 8 next year , where the Ministry of Cultural Affairs will organize cultural events across the country . As part of the countrywide talent search program , the ministry will organize a countrywide talent search program with the aim of creating a new cultural awakening among Bangladeshi children , adolescents and youth . ' Digital Oral History Project ' will include a large-scale digital archiving . Millions of participants in the ' Remembering Monsoon Revolution ' will have their involvement history captured by video cameras and compiled , and these videos will be displayed everywhere . For aspiring authors , Bangla Academy will publish books and offer creative writing classes . In addition , 10 one-year research fellowships and funds for fifty research papers will be granted to the aspiring researchers , as part of the ' Bangla Academy Creative Writing Workshop and Research Project ' . Besides , it was also revealed that the projection system in the National Museum auditoriums will be modernized to screen international films , documentaries and other visual content along with stage performances throughout the year , and the ' Show-Creator Workshops ' will be organized for the promising youth of Bangladesh with experienced trainers of internationally renowned OTT platforms . Syed Jamil Ahmed , Director General of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy , and Mohammad Azam , Director General of Bangla Academy , joined other ministry officials in presenting these initiatives . <p> The ICCROM Regional Centre in Sharjah will announce the winners of the 4th ICCROM-Sharjah Award for Good Practices in Cultural Heritage Preservation and the 3rd Arab Cultural Heritage Award for the Young on November 28 2024 . The ceremony will begin at 9:00 am at ICCROM-Sharjah , according to a press release on Thursday . The event will recognise outstanding efforts in preserving Arab cultural heritage . Awards include the Grand Award for Good Practices , and two Honorary Awards for Community Engagement and Conservation and Innovation . It also celebrates Arab youth creativity in drawing , photography , awareness films , and folkloric dance through the Arab Cultural Heritage Award for the Young . Winners in these categories will participate in training workshops in arts , photography , and directing before the ceremony . Historian and architect Professor Nasser Rabbat , Aga Khan Professor at MIT , will be honoured for his significant contributions to Islamic architecture and heritage through his academic and research achievements . This year , 18 projects from 12 Arab countries , including the UAE , Bahrain , Tunisia , Saudi Arabia , and Yemen , were shortlisted from 55 nominations for the ICCROM-Sharjah Award . These projects highlight efforts to preserve historical architecture , protect archaeological sites , and safeguard tangible heritage . The awards underscore ICCROM-Sharjah 's dedication to conserving cultural heritage , promoting best practices , and fostering international knowledge exchange . By spotlighting successful initiatives , the program aims to inspire others , strengthen professional networks , and enhance public appreciation of cultural heritage in the Arab region . <p> Since October 7 last year , 191 journalists and media workers have been killed as Israel is targeting and killing Palestinian journalists to suppress media coverage of the massacre in Gaza . To protest against this targeted killing of Palestinian journalists , an exhibition titled ' Gaza Holocaust : Killing the Truthtellers ' was organised by Drik Picture Library this afternoon at Dhanmondi 's Rabindra Sarobar . Along with Drik family members and friends , visitors present at the venue stood in solidarity with photographs of journalists who died fighting for the liberation of Palestine . Earlier this year , on May 5 , to mark World Press Freedom Day 2024 , Drik organised a 7-day exhibition under the same title and a panel discussion at DrikPath Bhaban in Panthapath . In the introduction to the exhibition , which aimed to pay tribute to the media persons killed in Gaza , eminent photographer and Drik 's Managing Director Shahidul Alam described , " With access to international media denied by Israel , the Palestinian journalists were the sole witnesses to the destruction of hospitals , where healing hands once laboured to save desperate lives and abandoned children lay in deserted incubators , to mass graves with people buried alive . " " They saw hungry people queuing outside food trucks gunned down and pregnant mothers , breasts dry and hearts heavy , buried under rubble . They saw too much , said too much and were plucked off , like carnival ducks in a shooting arcade , one by one . Sometimes alone , sometimes with families . Drones guided by technology giants honing in on the death trail of their mobile phones . " " These brave journalists , in their sacrifice , have ignited the flame of conscience . They were more than flesh and bone . Martyrs to the sacred art of truth telling , their lens a mirror reflecting humanity 's darkest corners . The weight of their stories presses upon our collective conscience . " according to Shahidul Alam . This solidarity exhibition is part of resistance to Israeli aggression and commitment to liberating Palestine with the call for an immediate ceasefire and an end to the ongoing genocide . <p> Goethe-Institut Bangladesh , in partnership with Alliance Fran ? aise de Dhaka ( AFD ) , presented an evening with the Franco-German Jazz Trio featuring Luise Volkmann ( saxophone ) , Max Andrzejewski ( drums ) , and Paul Jarret ( guitar ) recently at the AFD , Dhanmondi , in Dhaka . As part of a successful regional jazz tour of the trio , the concert enamoured the Dhaka audiences on Sunday , November 10 . Prior to the concert , Frank Werner , Director of the Goethe-Institut Bangladesh , and Fran ? ois Grosjean , Director of the Alliance Fran ? aise de Dhaka , welcomed the Franco-German musicians and audience with brief speeches . The concert was marked by a journey through playful elegance and energetic flow , inviting the audience to experience the trio 's deeply emotional and innovative approach to jazz . Their performance brought a refreshing soundscape to Dhaka , leaving a lasting impression on the city 's jazz enthusiasts . The **28;223;TOOLONG trio was founded in 2023 because Volkmann had carte blanche for a new line-up at the Hanover Jazz Festival . The trio plays a convincing mixture of simple folk songs and improvised sound collages . All band members are instrumentalists as well as outstanding composers , all of whom have already written for large formations . In the trio 's interplay , this knowledge of instrumentation and form is condensed into an energetic yet fragile performance that is deeply emotional . The concert featured an evocative selection of tracks depicting playful elegance in the music that took the audience on a musical journey , including " All My Forces " by Louise Volkmann , " My Ground " by Louise Volkmann , " Kitzel Skizze " by Louise Volkmann , " Roam Free " by Paul Jarret , " Odd Western by Paul Jarret , " #18 " by Max Andrzejewski , and " Opposite You " by Luise Volkmann . This carefully curated setlist highlighted the trio 's innovative approach , blending playful elegance with energetic flow , and left a lasting impression on Dhaka 's jazz enthusiasts . <p> French artist-educator ? lise Grosjean 's exclusive solo exhibition ' Finely Tiny ' was inaugurated at La Galerie , Alliance Fran ? aise de Dhaka ( AFD ) , in the capital 's Dhanmondi on Friday evening . A special artist talk , ' Mathematics and Art : Exploring the Connections ' preceded the exhibition at 5pm . Art critic Moinuddin Khaled attended the event as the special guest . From a young age , ? lise Grosjean began her artistic journey by drawing on her skin with henna and later transitioning to paper . To escape the monotony of school , she found solace in covering her diaries with imaginative drawings . This early passion for art persisted , even as her academic path took an unexpected turn . Elise pursued an academic career , becoming a Doctor of Mathematics ( PhD in Mathematics ) and an assistant professor at ENSTA-Paris , a prestigious engineering school . Her research focuses on the development of numerical methods to simulate physical phenomena . Besides solving complex mathematical equations , ? lise finds every excuse to draw , experimenting with a wide range of techniques , including pencils , inks , oil paint , acrylic , watercolor , pigments , collages , henna , and even salt dough . What connects her two seemingly divergent passions -- mathematics and art -- is her love for intricate geometric patterns . This connection is especially evident in her paintings Classroom and Rom ? o &amp; Juliette -- Mathematician Version , both of which will be featured . The exhibition will remain open to all , daily from 3pm to 9pm , till Saturday , November 9 . <p> Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy ( BSA ) will kick off the 2024 Jatra Festival on Friday at the open stage ( Mukto Moncho ) of Suhrawardy Udyan in Dhaka . This year 's festival will feature seven Jatra teams from different districts of Bangladesh , performing daily from 6 PM to 9 PM until November 7 . The performances will be based on historical and social events . " Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy believes that art is at the centre of public life . We learned morality in childhood by watching social journeys , but over time , the Jatra industry has diverged in a different direction , and we need to address that situation . The Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy is working to bring traditional Jatrapala back into public life through performance , development , practice , and the patronage of Jatra artists , " said Prof Dr Syed Jamil Ahmed , Director General of BSA . Israfil Majumdar , a participant in the student-led mass revolution , will be the chief guest , while eminent Jatra artist Anima Dey will attend as a special guest at the inaugural ceremony . Faiz Zahir , Director of the BSA Theatre and Film Department , will deliver the welcome speech at the programme , which will be presided over by the BSA DG . The first show of the seven Jatrapala performances , Nihoto Golap , will take place at 7 PM . Presented by Surovi Opera , the Jatrapala is directed by Kabir Khan .
