<p> You are not alone if 2024 has you feeling worn down . It has been a trying year on the world scene , as the forces of disarray grew stronger . Ongoing wars ground on , while new ones erupted . Geopolitical competition increased , to the point where meetings between global leaders became news headlines even though their talks yielded little tangible progress . In all , good news has been in short supply . <p> Trump is back <p> Donald Trump once again stunned the world , and wrong-footed pollsters who had projected a very tight race , to win the US presidential election . He won all seven swing states , keeping control of the House and winning back the Senate . He is also on course to win the popular vote . He beat his Democrat rival Kamala Harris , who had been parachuted into the process just 100 days before the election after the 81-year-old outgoing President Joe Biden pulled out . On December 8 , Trump called for an immediate ceasefire in Ukraine . He returns to the White House on January 20 , 2025 . <p> More than a year into the Israeli offensive in the Gaza Strip , there has been no let-up in the violence . The conflict expanded as Israel turned its focus on the Iran-backed Hezbollah militia and extended its offensive into Lebanon . The conflict has killed at least 3,768 people in Lebanon since October 2023 , according to the health ministry , most of them since September 2024 . The health ministry in Hamas-run Gaza said the death toll from the offensive there has reached over 45,235 people , the majority of them civilians . On December 8 , Syrian rebels had ousted President Bashar al-Assad after seizing control of Damascus , forcing him to flee and ending his family 's decades of autocratic rule after more than 13 years of civil war .. <p> Ukraine war escalates <p> After a failed counteroffensive in 2023 , following Russia 's invasion on February 24 , 2022 , Ukraine in August launched a surprise incursion into Russia 's Kursk region . Russia has responded with deadly strikes and Kyiv 's outgunned and outmanned troops have struggled to hold back steady advances from Russian forces , notably in the eastern Donetsk region . The West , Ukraine and South Korea say thousands of North Korea soldiers are in Russia . In November Ukraine for the first time used Western-supplied long-range missiles against Russia , after getting US and British clearance . Russia responded by hitting Ukraine with an intercontinental ballistic missile ( ICBM ) without a nuclear warhead . <p> Social media scrutiny <p> In 2024 social media titans faced growing scrutiny of their practices . In France in August , Russian-born founder of the controversial Telegram app , Pavel Durov , was arrested and charged with failing to curb extremist and illegal content on his network . TikTok , meanwhile , was in the crosshairs of US Federal Trade Commission , which accused it of violating child privacy laws . But it was arguably Elon Musk and his social media platform X that drew the most fire . In August , X was banned for 40 days in Brazil -- its largest Latin American market with 22 million users -- in a legal tussle over disinformation . <p> Russia tightens grip <p> Vladimir Putin began his fifth term as Russian president in May after winning a presidential election that the West slammed as a sham . His nemesis Alexei Navalny died in February in murky circumstances in the Arctic prison where he had been serving a 19-year sentence for leading an " extremist " organisation . Since his death , Russian authorities have escalated a campaign against the Kremlin critic 's backers , allies and family -- arresting journalists who covered his court hearings and adding his wife , Yulia Navalnaya , to a " terrorists and extremists " blacklist . <p> Chinese decline <p> Beijing launched a salvo of measures aimed at boosting its economy . The world 's second-biggest economy has been hit by a property crisis and sluggish household consumption . It has also been locked in bitter trade disputes with the US and the EU after the entry into force of steep increases in US customs duties on electric cars , batteries for electric vehicles . In response Beijing has slapped " temporary anti-dumping measures " on imports from the EU of products including cognac . With Trump 's US election win China also fears the imposition of increased customs duties on all its goods imported into the US . <p> Deadly flooding <p> The summer of 2024 was the hottest ever recorded on Earth . Relentless global warming provoked heatwaves , droughts and deadly flooding , with the wet weather proving particularly dramatic . An unusually intense rainy season in West and Central Africa unleashed a humanitarian crisis killing hundreds of people . In a September of wild weather , Hurricane Helene pounded the southeast US , Typhoon Krathon slammed into Taiwan and Storm Boris brought floods and devastation to Europe . Typhoons Yagi and Bebinca left a trail of destruction in Asia while deadly floods hit Nepal , Bangladesh , Japan and west and central Africa . <p> A deadly year for aviation <p> A string of devastating aviation disasters in 2024 has left hundreds dead and shaken public confidence in air travel safety . The most recent and deadliest crash occurred on December 28 , when a Jeju Air passenger aircraft crashed while attempting to land at Muan Airport , South Korea . The impact ignited a fierce fire that engulfed the aircraft , killing at least 179 of the 181 people aboard . December 25 saw an Embraer ERJ-190AR aircraft operated by Azerbaijan Airlines crash near Aktau Airport in Kazakhstan , killing 38 out of 67 passengers . <p> Far-right gains in Europe <p> European elections in June confirmed nationalist and far-right parties rising in France , Germany , Belgium , Austria , Italy and the Netherlands . This also translated at the national level . Austria 's far-right Freedom Party won a historic victory in legislative elections . In France , a republican bloc prevented the far-right National Rally from coming to power in snap parliamentary elections , but fell out swiftly after the vote . The AFD in Germany won a regional election for the first time . And meanwhile in England and Northern Ireland dozens of towns were rocked by anti-immigration riots fuelled by far-right agitators . <h> NOTABLE DEATHS 2024 <p> February <p> Alexei Navalny , 47 . The fiercest foe of Russian President Vladimir Putin who crusaded against official corruption and staged massive anti-Kremlin protests . <p> April <p> Peter Higgs , 94 . The Nobel prize-winning physicist proposed the existence of the so-called " God particle " that helped explain how matter formed after the Big Bang . <p> May <p> Alice Munro , 92 . The Nobel laureate was a Canadian literary giant who became one of the world 's most esteemed contemporary authors and one of history 's most honored short story writers . <p> July <p> Ismail Haniyeh , 62 . Hamas ' top leader in exile landed on Israel 's hit list after the group staged its surprise October 7 attacks . <p> October <p> Ratan Tata , 86 . One of India 's most influential business leaders , the veteran industrialist was former chairman of the $100 billion conglomerate Tata Group . <p> November <p> Quincy Jones , 91 . The multi-talented music titan whose vast legacy ranged from producing Michael Jackson 's historic " Thriller " album to writing prize-winning film and television scores and collaborating with Frank Sinatra , Ray Charles and hundreds of other recording artists . <p> December <p> Ustad Zakir Hussain , 73 . A child prodigy , he was known for his dazzling solo performances and a raft of collaborative work with internationally renowned musicians such as George Harrison of the Beatles . <p> Jimmy Carter , 100 . An earnest Georgia peanut farmer who as US president struggled with a bad economy and the Iran hostage crisis but brokered peace between Israel and Egypt and later received the Nobel Peace Prize for his humanitarian work . <p> You are not alone if 2024 has you feeling worn down . It has been a trying year on the world scene , as the forces of disarray grew stronger . Ongoing wars ground on , while new ones erupted . Geopolitical competition increased , to the point where meetings between global leaders became news headlines even though their talks yielded little tangible progress . In all , good news has been in short supply . <p> Trump is back <p> Donald Trump once again stunned the world , and wrong-footed pollsters who had projected a very tight race , to win the US presidential election . He won all seven swing states , keeping control of the House and winning back the Senate . He is also on course to win the popular vote . He beat his Democrat rival Kamala Harris , who had been parachuted into the process just 100 days before the election after the 81-year-old outgoing President Joe Biden pulled out . On December 8 , Trump called for an immediate ceasefire in Ukraine . He returns to the White House on January 20 , 2025 . <p> More than a year into the Israeli offensive in the Gaza Strip , there has been no let-up in the violence . The conflict expanded as Israel turned its focus on the Iran-backed Hezbollah militia and extended its offensive into Lebanon . The conflict has killed at least 3,768 people in Lebanon since October 2023 , according to the health ministry , most of them since September 2024 . The health ministry in Hamas-run Gaza said the death toll from the offensive there has reached over 45,235 people , the majority of them civilians . On December 8 , Syrian rebels had ousted President Bashar al-Assad after seizing control of Damascus , forcing him to flee and ending his family 's decades of autocratic rule after more than 13 years of civil war .. <p> Ukraine war escalates <p> After a failed counteroffensive in 2023 , following Russia 's invasion on February 24 , 2022 , Ukraine in August launched a surprise incursion into Russia 's Kursk region . Russia has responded with deadly strikes and Kyiv 's outgunned and outmanned troops have struggled to hold back steady advances from Russian forces , notably in the eastern Donetsk region . The West , Ukraine and South Korea say thousands of North Korea soldiers are in Russia . In November Ukraine for the first time used Western-supplied long-range missiles against Russia , after getting US and British clearance . Russia responded by hitting Ukraine with an intercontinental ballistic missile ( ICBM ) without a nuclear warhead . <p> Social media scrutiny <p> In 2024 social media titans faced growing scrutiny of their practices . In France in August , Russian-born founder of the controversial Telegram app , Pavel Durov , was arrested and charged with failing to curb extremist and illegal content on his network . TikTok , meanwhile , was in the crosshairs of US Federal Trade Commission , which accused it of violating child privacy laws . But it was arguably Elon Musk and his social media platform X that drew the most fire . In August , X was banned for 40 days in Brazil -- its largest Latin American market with 22 million users -- in a legal tussle over disinformation . <p> Russia tightens grip <p> Vladimir Putin began his fifth term as Russian president in May after winning a presidential election that the West slammed as a sham . His nemesis Alexei Navalny died in February in murky circumstances in the Arctic prison where he had been serving a 19-year sentence for leading an " extremist " organisation . Since his death , Russian authorities have escalated a campaign against the Kremlin critic 's backers , allies and family -- arresting journalists who covered his court hearings and adding his wife , Yulia Navalnaya , to a " terrorists and extremists " blacklist . <p> Chinese decline <p> Beijing launched a salvo of measures aimed at boosting its economy . The world 's second-biggest economy has been hit by a property crisis and sluggish household consumption . It has also been locked in bitter trade disputes with the US and the EU after the entry into force of steep increases in US customs duties on electric cars , batteries for electric vehicles . In response Beijing has slapped " temporary anti-dumping measures " on imports from the EU of products including cognac . With Trump 's US election win China also fears the imposition of increased customs duties on all its goods imported into the US . <p> Deadly flooding <p> The summer of 2024 was the hottest ever recorded on Earth . Relentless global warming provoked heatwaves , droughts and deadly flooding , with the wet weather proving particularly dramatic . An unusually intense rainy season in West and Central Africa unleashed a humanitarian crisis killing hundreds of people . In a September of wild weather , Hurricane Helene pounded the southeast US , Typhoon Krathon slammed into Taiwan and Storm Boris brought floods and devastation to Europe . Typhoons Yagi and Bebinca left a trail of destruction in Asia while deadly floods hit Nepal , Bangladesh , Japan and west and central Africa . <p> A deadly year for aviation <p> A string of devastating aviation disasters in 2024 has left hundreds dead and shaken public confidence in air travel safety . The most recent and deadliest crash occurred on December 28 , when a Jeju Air passenger aircraft crashed while attempting to land at Muan Airport , South Korea . The impact ignited a fierce fire that engulfed the aircraft , killing at least 179 of the 181 people aboard . December 25 saw an Embraer ERJ-190AR aircraft operated by Azerbaijan Airlines crash near Aktau Airport in Kazakhstan , killing 38 out of 67 passengers . <p> Far-right gains in Europe <p> European elections in June confirmed nationalist and far-right parties rising in France , Germany , Belgium , Austria , Italy and the Netherlands . This also translated at the national level . Austria 's far-right Freedom Party won a historic victory in legislative elections . In France , a republican bloc prevented the far-right National Rally from coming to power in snap parliamentary elections , but fell out swiftly after the vote . The AFD in Germany won a regional election for the first time . And meanwhile in England and Northern Ireland dozens of towns were rocked by anti-immigration riots fuelled by far-right agitators . <h> NOTABLE DEATHS 2024 <p> February <p> Alexei Navalny , 47 . The fiercest foe of Russian President Vladimir Putin who crusaded against official corruption and staged massive anti-Kremlin protests . <p> April <p> Peter Higgs , 94 . The Nobel prize-winning physicist proposed the existence of the so-called " God particle " that helped explain how matter formed after the Big Bang . <p> May <p> Alice Munro , 92 . The Nobel laureate was a Canadian literary giant who became one of the world 's most esteemed contemporary authors and one of history 's most honored short story writers . <p> July <p> Ismail Haniyeh , 62 . Hamas ' top leader in exile landed on Israel 's hit list after the group staged its surprise October 7 attacks . <p> October <p> Ratan Tata , 86 . One of India 's most influential business leaders , the veteran industrialist was former chairman of the $100 billion conglomerate Tata Group . <p> November <p> Quincy Jones , 91 . The multi-talented music titan whose vast legacy ranged from producing Michael Jackson 's historic " Thriller " album to writing prize-winning film and television scores and collaborating with Frank Sinatra , Ray Charles and hundreds of other recording artists . <p> December <p> Ustad Zakir Hussain , 73 . A child prodigy , he was known for his dazzling solo performances and a raft of collaborative work with internationally renowned musicians such as George Harrison of the Beatles . <p> Jimmy Carter , 100 . An earnest Georgia peanut farmer who as US president struggled with a bad economy and the Iran hostage crisis but brokered peace between Israel and Egypt and later received the Nobel Peace Prize for his humanitarian work .
