@@52170792 <h> Breadcrumb Trail Links <h> Avi Benlolo : The assassination of Yitzhak Rabin was the Jewish world 's ' JFK moment ' <p> Twenty-five years ago , Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin was assassinated in cold blood . And so were the dreams of peace in the Middle East <p> Author of the article : <p> Avi Benlolo , National Post <p> Publishing date : <p> Nov 04 , 2020 * * 4 minute read <p> U.S. President Bill Clinton , centre , looks on as Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin , left , and Palestine Liberation Organization leader Yasser Arafat shake hands after the signing of the Israeli-PLO peace accord at the White House in Washington , D.C. , on Sept. 13 , 1993 . Photo by Gary Hershorn/Reuters <h> Article Sidebar <h> Share this Story : Avi Benlolo : The assassination of Yitzhak Rabin was the Jewish world 's ' JFK moment ' <h> Trending <h> Article content <p> It was a beautiful sunny autumn day in Washington , D.C. The world was watching with anticipation as leaders gathered on the White House lawn . We were filled with hope and awareness about witnessing a historical moment , which was capped by a now-infamous handshake and what promised to be a new chapter that would end the Palestinian-Israeli conflict . <p> That fateful day on Sept. 13 , 1993 , could not have been more exciting for me , having just started my career in the Jewish community . My earliest recollection as a child was seeing my father in army fatigues come home from the brutal Yom Kippur War . The possibility of losing my father to war left me with an indelible impression and a longing for peace . <h> Avi Benlolo : The assassination of Yitzhak Rabin was the Jewish world 's ' JFK moment'Back to video <p> And so , the signing of the Oslo Accords and the Declaration of Principles was cause for hope . Little did I know that just two years later , I would be thrust into organizing a 5,000-plus person memorial for Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin at the Centennial Arena in Toronto . Rabin 's assassination by a fellow Jew hit the Jewish community like a bulldozer . Young students cried , sang and lit candles outside the arena . They shared their shattered hopes and dreams for the future . <h> Advertisement <p> Story continues below <p> This advertisement has not loaded yet , but your article continues below . <h> Article content continued <p> It 's incomprehensible to think that 27 years later , a full generation of Palestinians and Israelis have grown up without having witnessed the pledges for peace that were made on that day in Washington . They missed the part where PLO leader Yasser Arafat promised U.S. President Bill Clinton and the Palestinian people that he would promote the " values for freedom , justice and human rights . " His promise to " usher in an age of peace , co-existence and equal rights " meant nothing . It flew in the face of his handshake with Rabin , and Clinton 's warm embrace . <p> Rabin was often criticized for what many said was naivete for believing Arafat wanted to make peace with Israel . However , Rabin 's grim face during the signing and reluctant handshake revealed that the deal pained him . A former war hero , he knew his enemy well but decided to give peace a chance . In his remarks , Rabin explained that he was determined to " put an end to hostilities so that our children , our chidren 's children , will no longer experience the painful cost of war , violence and terror . " <p> He held up his end of the bargain for two years and on Sept. 28 , 1995 -- just one month before his assassination -- he agreed to move to the next stage of the Oslo Accords , the Interim Agreement . It marked the conclusion of the first stage of negotiations between Israel and the PLO . Its main objective was to broaden Palestinian self-government in the West Bank through an elected self-governing authority , in order to foster a new era of co-operation and peaceful co-existence . <h> Advertisement <p> Story continues below <p> This advertisement has not loaded yet , but your article continues below . <h> Article content continued <p> But while Arafat called violence " morally reprehensible " at the signing ceremony , nothing was further from the truth . Like the fable about a scorpion who ca n't help himself and kills the frog that is carrying him across the water , Arafat would use his foothold in Ramallah to plunge his people into a war of attrition with Israel . Through his divisive actions , he lost control of the Gaza Strip , giving rise to a mini terrorist state now run by Hamas . <p> Months after Rabin 's death , a Palestinian suicide bomber blew himself up on a bus in Jerusalem , killing 17 civilians and wounding 48 . A month later , another killer blew himself up outside the Dizengoff Center in Tel Aviv , killing 13 people and wounding 130 . The chaos of dozens of suicide bombings continued well into the 2000s . They included the horrific attack on the dolphinarium in which 21 youths were killed and the Sbarro attack in central Jerusalem in which 15 civilians were killed , including seven children . <p> Perhaps Rabin foresaw what would happen should the peace process derail . In his last moments of life , on Nov. 4 , 1995 , he still held out hope for peace despite the public and political pressure . In his final speech at a peace rally in Tel Aviv 's main square ( now called Rabin Square ) , he said , " There are enemies of peace who are trying to hurt us in order to torpedo the peace process . I want to say bluntly that we have found a partner for peace among the Palestinians as well . The PLO , which was an enemy , has ceased to engage in terrorism . " <h> Advertisement <p> Story continues below <p> This advertisement has not loaded yet , but your article continues below . <h> Article content continued <p> Moments later , following the singing of the classic Hebrew melody , the " Song for Peace , " Rabin was shot by a Jewish assailant who wanted to stop the peace process . He did . For Israelis and the Jewish world , this was their JFK moment . Time stood still . The pain of betrayal by one of their own still haunts the nation . But Israel 's quest for peace has n't abated . <p> And so , for everyone who shared this brief moment in time , who participated in the memorial rally 25 years ago , who sang the " Song for Peace " at the rally the night Rabin was shot and who continue to impart his message of hope and peace to the next generation -- you might be wondering , where do we go from here ? <p> We go to where the wisdom of sages point us in sacred text . They instructed that even while it may not be our responsibility to finish the work of perfecting the world , even when cut short as in the case of Rabin , we are not free to desist from it either . And thus , it is up to us to carry this work forward and to never give up on making peace . As Rabin aptly said , " The path of peace is preferable to war . " <h> Share this article in your social network <h> Share this Story : Avi Benlolo : The assassination of Yitzhak Rabin was the Jewish world 's ' JFK moment ' <h> Posted Newsletter <p> Sign up to receive the daily top stories from the National Post , a division of Postmedia Network Inc . <p> Email Address <p> There was an error , please provide a valid email address . <p> By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc . You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails . Postmedia Network Inc. 365 Bloor Street East , Toronto , Ontario , M4W 3L4 416-383-2300 <h> Thanks for signing up ! <p> A welcome email is on its way . If you do n't see it please check your junk folder . <p> The next issue of Posted Newsletter will soon be in your inbox . <p> We encountered an issue signing you up . Please try again <h> Trending <h> Related Stories <h> Advertisement <p> Story continues below <p> This advertisement has not loaded yet , but your article continues below . <h> This Week in Flyers <h> Article Comments <h> Comments <p> Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles . Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site . We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful . We have enabled email notifications -- you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment , there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments . Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings . <h> Notice for the Postmedia Network <p> This website uses cookies to personalize your content ( including ads ) , and allows us to analyze our traffic . Read more about cookies here . By continuing to use our site , you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy . 
@@86276218 <p> This copy is for your personal non-commercial use only . To order presentation-ready copies of Toronto Star content for distribution to colleagues , clients or customers , or inquire about permissions/licensing , please go to : **27;2417;TOOLONG <h> Sudan says deal with US blocks further compensation claims <p> SM <p> By Samy MagdyThe Associated Press <p> Sat. , Oct. 31 , 2020timer3 min. read <p> CAIRO - Sudan says it has signed an agreement with the U.S. that could effectively stop any future compensation claims being filed against the African country in U.S. courts , following Washington 's decision to remove the country from its list of state sponsors of terrorism . <p> The deal restores in U.S. courts what is known as sovereign immunity to the Sudanese government , and comes after a year of negotiations between the Trump administration and Sudan 's new leadership , the Sudanese Justice Ministry said . <p> A transitional government led by a mix of military and civilian figures currently rules Sudan , after the overthrow of former leader Omar al-Bashir in April 2019 led to the country seeking better ties with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the U.S. State Department Friday , was meant to settle all lawsuits against Sudan in American courts , including those related to the 1998 bombings of the U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania . The deal would enter into force after U.S. Congress passes legislation needed to implement the agreement . <p> Sudan 's transitional government has agreed to pay $335 million in compensation for victims of the attacks that were carried out by Osama bin Laden 's al-Qaida network while the militant leader was living in Sudan . The ministry said the money would be held in an escrow account till the U.S. finalizes the restoration of Sudan 's sovereign immunity . <p> The State Department has notified Congress of the agreement , which it described as a " monumental win for victims of terrorism . " <p> It said the deal also included compensation settlement for victims of the deadly 2000 bombing of the USS Cole at Yemen 's southern port of Aden which killed 17 Marines , and for the killing of John Granville , an official with the U.S. Agency for International Development , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Khartoum in 2008 . <p> " The signing .. marks a critically important step toward achieving justice for the tragedy our families experienced , " said Edith L. Bartley , spokeswoman for the families of the Americans killed in the Kenya attack . <p> Bartley urged U.S. Congress to " immediately " pass legislation needed to implement the settlement and release the money . <p> The U.S. designation of Sudan as a state sponsor of terrorism dates back to the 1990s , when al-Bashir ruled Sudan and his government briefly hosted bin Laden and other wanted militants . Sudan was also believed to have served as a pipeline for Iran to supply weapons to Palestinian militants in the Gaza Strip . <p> De-listing Sudan from the blacklist was part of the U.S. administration 's efforts to have Sudan normalize its ties with Israel . Sudan has become the third Arab country -- after the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain -- to normalize ties with the Jewish state in the run-up to Election Day on Nov. 3 . <p> However , President Trump 's decision on Friday to extend the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among Sudanese over American policy . <p> The U.S. embassy in Khartoum on Saturday sought to reassure Sudanese , saying in a tweet that the decision " in no way impacts the removal of Sudan from the state sponsors of terrorism list . " It said the extension was meant to maintain U.N . sanctions related to the Darfur conflict . <p> Darfur has been gripped by bloodshed since 2003 , when rebels took up arms against the Sudanese government , accusing it of misruling the region . The United Nations says 300,000 people have died in the conflict and 2.7 million have fled their homes . <p> Sudanese transitional authorities have promised to hold elections by 2022 . <h> More from The Star &amp; Partners <h> More News <h> Top Stories <p> Copyright owned or licensed by Toronto Star Newspapers Limited . All rights reserved . Republication or distribution of this content is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Toronto Star Newspapers Limited and/or its licensors . To order copies of Toronto Star articles , please go to : **27;2446;TOOLONG 
@@52205418 <p> Mary Trump , the estranged niece of Donald Trump , said her uncle is " deliberately " refusing to concede the U.S. election and provide a smooth transition to president-elect Joe Biden . " He 's going to drag this out for as long as he 's allowed to , " Trump , who is the author of a tell-all family memoir , said in an interview Sunday on Rosemary Barton Live . " He 's stoking his followers into acts of violence . He 's deliberately impeding the incoming administration . " Biden defeated Trump by winning a series of battleground states that the Republican incumbent had won in 2016 . The Democratic former vice-president also won the national popular vote by more than 5.5 million votes , or 3.6 percentage points.Earlier Sunday , the president backtracked after appearing to acknowledge for the first time that Joe Biden won the Nov. 3 election , saying he conceded " nothing " and repeating his unsubstantiated claims of widespread voting fraud.Trump made his conflicting statements in a series of Twitter posts . " He won because the Election was Rigged , " Trump wrote on Sunday morning , not referring to Biden by name.About an hour later , Trump wrote , " He only won in the eyes of the FAKE NEWS MEDIA . I concede NOTHING ! We have a long way to go . This was a RIGGED ELECTION ! " WATCH Rosemary Barton Live 's American Roundtable on why a smooth presidential transition matters : <p> Earlier this fall , Sheena and Mark Eraut stood in front of a judge in a Victoria , B.C. , courtroom and asked that their son be kept in jail.The Erauts , who live in Saanich , B.C. , have been fighting for nine years to get help for their son Lochlan , who is addicted to fentanyl and suffers from ADHD and the after-effects of a brain tumour . But with no treatment that has worked , no mental health supports , and no available housing for their son , the parents have concluded jail is the safest place for him.The Erauts are one of many B.C. families struggling to find adequate treatment for their addicted children -- a place that wo n't kick out addicts after a relapse and will work with them for longer than a couple of months to keep them safe and healthy . " Mark and I , we 're capable , competent adults and we are so frustrated and so exhausted from this system , " said Sheena Eraut , who is no longer married to Mark . " It has been incredibly traumatic and totally soul destroying . " A boy who loved animalsAs a kid growing up in Saanich , Lochlan raised ducks and chickens . One time he brought home an orphaned baby deer to care for . When he was 15 , he had his first grand mal seizure . A few months later , he was diagnosed with a brain tumour in the frontal lobe of his brain -- the part that controls impulse control and judgment . A five-hour surgery and 55 stitches later , the tumour was gone . Lochlan appeared physically fine , but psychologically he was changed.He struggled to sleep and began to self-medicate with marijuana . Then he moved on to cocaine , crystal meth , and heroin . By age 18 , his parents suspected he was selling small amounts of drugs . By 19 , he 'd been arrested . Lochlan is now 24 , addicted to fentanyl , and has racked up a series of charges for what his parents call " survival crimes . " This summer he told his parents he hopes he dies . In and out of treatment centresLochlan has tried a few stints at voluntary , abstinence-based treatment centres , which have zero tolerance for relapse . Each time , it 's failed for reasons that are frustrating to the Erauts.At one , Mark Eraut drove across the province to drop off his son , only to hear a staff person tell Lochlan he would n't last a week . Lochlan left days later , saying he was treated poorly.Another time , several days after detoxing , Lochlan was taken to a sober event and given the responsibility of watching the front door , where someone gave or sold him some heroin . He got caught , and was found later in an alley off East Hastings Street . Mark Eraut believes the treatment centres are " churning their clients out . " " It does n't set them up for success , " he said . " It sets them up to actually be repeat clients . " Each time , before starting treatment , Lochlan goes through a painful detox period , often locked away in a motel under the care of his dad.And each time treatment fails , Lochlan returns to the homeless camps , parks , and streets of Vancouver and Victoria . His dad then goes walking and driving , looking for Lochlan 's tent to make sure his boy is still alive . In their election platform this fall , the B.C. NDP committed to building new treatment , recovery , and detox facilities , with some specifically for people under 24 . It also committed to building complex care housing . Outgoing Mental Health and Addictions Minister Judy Darcy said in an interview that Lochlan 's experience illustrates the wide range of stories of how people come to struggle with addiction , and the complexity of providing treatment . Darcy pulled back on Bill 22 -- which would change the B.C. Mental Health Act to allow youth to be involuntarily hospitalized for a week after they overdose -- after it was criticized by legal and youth advocates who said it would do more harm than good . " There were parents who were saying it did n't go far enough ... and there were people who believe it was an improper use of the Mental Health Act , " Darcy said . " So that remains a very , very controversial issue and one that the next minister and the next government will have to continue to grapple with . " In a broken system , jail is the best optionThe longest drug-free window for Lochlan in the past six years happened in jail.Three months into his stay , he started working to finish Grade 12 English . He was seeming more like the old Lochlan . But when he was released after five months , there was no housing , no mental health or psychiatric support , and no addiction treatment to help him to continue to heal and begin to rebuild a life . Without those supports , Lochlan relapsed and ended up back in jail , where his parents feel he 's safest . So for now , in a year when more than 1,200 British Columbians have died so far from drug overdoses , Lochlan waits in jail , spitting mad at his parents , as they try to figure out a plan . " As parents , if your kid was putting a gun to his head many times a day and playing Russian roulette , would n't we want to intervene ? " said Sheena Eraut . " That fix -- is that going to be the one that kills them ? " <p> The mother of two children killed in Wendake last month is criticizing the province 's youth protection system , saying her calls for help were ignored until it was too late.Emilie Arsenault spoke publicly about the tragedy for the first time at a news conference in Quebec City on Sunday.Fighting through tears , she called the last few weeks a " living nightmare " and said she would never recover from the loss of her children . " I called the DPJ directeur de la protection de la jeunesse to protect my own kids . Why did n't they hear me ? " she asked . " If I had been listened to then I might be spending my Sunday with my kids instead of crying . " Her children -- Olivier , 5 , and Alex , 2 -- were found dead early on the morning of October 11 in a residence in Wendake , a Huron-Wendat First Nation just outside Quebec City.Their father , Michael Chicoine , turned himself in to police following the incident and has been charged with two counts of second-degree murder.A publication ban protecting the identities of the children and their relationship to Chicoine was lifted earlier this week.Mother wonders why she was n't taken seriouslyIn her remarks to reporters , Arsenault said she had been separated from Chicoine for two years and was petitioning for sole custody.She feared for her children 's safety when they were with their father and shared those concerns with the DPJ , she said.A hospital social worker and a police offer also contacted the DPJ to express similar concerns , Arsenault said . " Why were n't the social worker and the officer , who were supposed to help us , taken seriously when they made their report ? " she said.Arsenault said she once called police to prevent Chicoine from taking the children from her home . She was told that because she did not have court-ordered sole custody , there was nothing the officers could do , she said . The children 's grandfather , Jean-Guy Arsenault , also spoke at the news conference , saying his heart " broke into a million pieces " when he learned about the deaths of the two boys.He said the entire justice system needs to be changed , pointing out that his claim to the province 's victims compensation program ( IVAC ) was rejected.The family 's lawyer , Marc Bellemare , said they are considering all legal options right now but nothing has been decided yet.The local health authority in Quebec City , when contacted by CBC , said that it could n't comment on the case due to confidentiality under youth protection laws.A spokesperson for the CIUSSS de la Capitale-Nationale did say that they are offering their full co-operation with the ongoing investigations . " We are acting with full transparency and we are providing the necessary information in order to shed light on this tragic situation , which is upsetting to us all , " wrote M ? lanie Otis . <p> Transport Canada has suspended six employees without pay for spreading a racist email at work more than a decade ago , following a CBC News story last year that triggered an internal investigation.The department 's probe found 10 workers shared an Islamophobic parody song called " Strangers on my Flight , " set to the tune of a Frank Sinatra number , between 2006 and 2010 . The spoof song features derogatory lyrics based on racial stereotypes about travellers wearing turbans and mentions harming travellers with baseball bats.In a memo sent to all staff on Tuesday , the department 's deputy minister Michael Keenan and associate deputy minister Arun Thangaraj said that while the email was sent years ago , its distribution amounted to an act of " systemic racism that had a negative impact on our workplace and the public 's confidence in Transport Canada 's ability to operate without bias . " Of the 10 employees who shared the email , only six still work for the department . " The department carefully assessed the appropriate discipline required in response to these actions which reflects the gravity of the issues at play regarding racism and discrimination in our workplace , " Keenan and Thangaraj wrote . " Accordingly , the six employees have received unpaid suspensions . " ' Unconscious bias and systemic racism'The 10 Transport Canada employees who shared the email worked in aviation safety at the time -- the section of Transport Canada that oversees the enforcement of Canada 's " no-fly list " with airlines.The no-fly list program has been criticized for mistakenly flagging some Canadians as security risks because of their names . A group of parents whose children are on the list complained to the department about the racist email in 2018 , but action was n't taken until CBC 's report.Keenan and Thangaraj said in his memo that the department has " seized on this incident , along with the Black Lives Matter movement " to address " unconscious bias and systemic racism in our organization . " Transport Canada has assigned a pair of senior executives to advocate for diversity and inclusion in the workplace . They 're responsible for engaging employees to identify problems and come up with management changes , according to the minister 's office.Sarah Willson 's five-year-old son , Amin Karim , has been on the no-fly list since he was a baby . She was among those taking part in a virtual meeting with Keenan this week to explain the disciplinary action being taken against the employees . " That was quite surprising to us , " she said . " It sounds like they have actually put a lot of thought into this and have taken some meaningful action , including suspensions . " She said the families worked with Transport Canada on the new redress system and have now asked the Deputy Minister to start collecting data on who is being chosen for secondary screenings at airports to determine whether discrimination is taking place.Ruby Alvi said she was " relieved " Transport Canada " finally took the email seriously . " Her three sons have been on the no-fly list for as long as it 's been around . " I think this is really the beginning , " said Alvi . " Six unpaid leaves is huge . The fact they are now incorporating education training , anti-bias training and even executive leads in this area was reassuring to me . " Her 21-year-old son , Aadam Ahmed , said it took a while , but he hopes this sets a " precedent that no government agency should ever allow this in their environments . " Email reported to department twice before CBC reportTransport Canada said management first became aware of the email in 2017 when it was given a hard copy in the course of an investigation to resolve ongoing workplace problems , according to its third investigation report . No further action into the email was taken at that time.In 2018 , another hard copy of the email was given to Transport Canada by Amnesty International on behalf of the families fighting to get their children off the no-fly list . The review that followed ended without disciplinary action.After CBC News reported on the issue in December 2019 , Transport Minister Marc Garneau launched a third probe . " Our government does not tolerate racism , discrimination or harassment or any kind in the workplace and I am pleased to see that action has been taken against a number of individuals , " said Garneau in a media statement . It 's not clear who the suspended employees are or how long their suspensions might last.CBC News viewed a copy of the email in question , which states that it was sent by Mark Haynes on Sept. 3 , 2008 . Haynes is still employed with Transport Canada and , according to the government 's online directory , is the manager of Transportation Security Operations in Ottawa.Speaking to CBC News last year , Haynes referred to the email as " alleged " but did n't deny authoring it . He has not responded to CBC 's latest request for comment.Garneau 's office said no further information about the remedial measures could be provided , citing privacy concerns . Whistleblower not surprised , not satisfiedRenee Soeterik , a former aviation security inspector in Toronto , said speaking up about the email ruined her career and was the primary reason for her departure in 2017 . Soeterik said she received the email from Haynes in 2008 , along with other employees and managers . She claims she spent years bringing it up at meetings and retreats , only to be labelled a troublemaker and ostracized.Soeterik said the department promised her they would clean up the situation when she left , but did nothing until after the CBC report came out . " Based on my experience with over a decade of them covering up this issue , I am surprised that finally they have done something about it , " said Soeterik . " The result is six suspensions , where I 'm out of Transport Canada with an impacted pension for the rest of my life . The whistleblower will forever have a partial pension and the suspended employees will not . " She has concerns this story will prevent other whistleblowers from coming forward in the future , at a time when Transport Canada said it wants employees to speak up and report racism in the workplace . " In upholding my sworn duty , I was harassed , gaslit , shown the door and made to make do with a a truncated pension , " she said . " That is the punishment for doing what I was supposed to do . " <p> FREDERICTON -- Public Health officials in New Brunswick are reporting " adverse events " in three people who received a specific batch of influenza vaccine.The problems were reported in three adults who received the vaccine between Oct. 2 and Oct. 20 . Officials say neurologic symptoms , which included sustained numbness or weakness of the face or limbs , occurred within seven days of receiving the vaccine.They say they have been able to identify the specific batch of about 85,000 doses of influenza vaccine and say providers will not administer further shots if they have any remaining inventory.All remaining doses from other batches will continue to be administered , while health officials say further investigation into the affected batch is required.Provincial authorities say they have advised the Public Health Agency of Canada of the issue and an alert has been posted to ensure other jurisdictions are aware of the situation in New Brunswick . In a news release issued Sunday , Dr. Cristin Muecke , the province 's deputy chief medical officer of health , encouraged New Brunswick residents to get immunized against seasonal influenza via vaccine that remains available and is not part of the batch in question . " The risk of experiencing a severe adverse event remains extremely low and anyone who received a flu vaccine more than 10 days ago without an adverse reaction should not be concerned , " said Muecke . " The neurological nature and the severity of these adverse events from the affected batch are unusual for New Brunswick and we need some time to determine if they are linked to the vaccine . " To date , New Brunswick has received more than 420,000 doses of influenza vaccine , which represents a 26 per cent increase compared to last year . This report by The Canadian Press was first published Nov. 15 , 2020 . The Canadian Press <p> Canada 's ambassador to the United Nations says he 's called on the organization 's Human Rights Council to investigate whether China 's persecution of Uighurs in Xinjiang province should be considered an act of genocide . " There 's no question that there 's aspects of what the Chinese are doing that fits into the definition of genocide in the genocide convention , " Bob Rae told CBC Chief Political Correspondent Rosemary Barton . " But that then requires you to go through a process of gathering information and of making sure that we 've got the evidence that would support that kind of an allegation . " Last month , a House of Commons subcommittee tabled a report concluding that China 's treatment of the mostly Muslim minority -- including mass detentions in concentration camps , forced labour and population control measures such as forced sterilization -- meets the definition of genocide.The Chinese foreign ministry lashed out at the report 's findings , calling it " full of lies and disinformation " and warned parliamentarians to " avoid doing any further damage to China-Canada relations . " Arif Virani , the parliamentary secretary to Canada 's justice minister and attorney general , has told the Commons that " it is genocide that appears to be taking place today in China . " Foreign Affairs Minister Fran ? ois-Philippe Champagne previously said he is " deeply disturbed " by the committee 's report , but did not say whether Ottawa would impose sanctions on Chinese officials responsible for mistreatment of Uighurs living in Xinjiang province.Rae , who previously served as Canada 's special envoy to Myanmar , said Canada can not turn a blind eye to the plight facing China 's Uighur population . " But as I 've learned in my work on the Rohingya , there 's a big difference between information and evidence . And what we have to do now is see how we can gather evidence in order to carry out further steps , according to the genocide convention , " he said in an interview on Rosemary Barton Live.Canada joined 38 other United Nations member countries last month in calling on China " to allow immediate , meaningful and unfettered access to Xinjiang for independent observers , " including the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights and her office . " We are gravely concerned about the human rights situation in Xinjiang , " read the joint declaration to the UN General Assembly 's Third Committee . " We call on China to respect human rights , particularly the rights of persons belonging to religious and ethnic minorities . " A number of activist groups have already urged the agency 's Human Rights Council to probe potential human rights violations and to implement commitments on genocide prevention . Fate of detained Canadians in ChinaAs for efforts to secure the release of detained Canadians Michael Kovrig and Michael Spavor , Rae said it 's an issue many are seized with resolving . " It 's not simply about doing what we have to do with the UN to draw attention to it . It 's also about doing the work in Beijing and in Washington and Ottawa and everywhere else to make sure that we can get these two people released . " Kovrig and Spavor were detained in China in December 2018 , days after Huawei executive Meng Wanzhou was arrested in Vancouver at the request of U.S. authorities , who allege she violated U.S. sanctions on doing business with Iran.During a meeting of the UN General Assembly last month , Rae had harsh words for his Chinese counterpart over comments that Canada was bullying China . " When you say to a country of 35 million people that we are somehow bullying a nation of over a billion -- one of the great superpowers of the world -- and they have chosen to treat these two Canadian citizens in this way , this is something which we shall never forget , " Rae said . " If you think that insulting us or insulting my country or insulting anyone is going to help in resolving this situation , you are sadly mistaken , " he added.Reflecting on that meeting , Rae told Barton that he was attempting to make a case to other General Assembly members that the " practice of arbitrary detention ... is frankly disgraceful . " Biden victory bodes well on several frontsRae succeeded Marc-Andr ? Blanchard as Canada 's Permanent Representative to the UN in New York in August , assuming the role during the final months of the U.S presidential election.In an interview on Rosemary Barton Live last week , Foreign Affairs Minister Fran ? ois-Philippe Champagne said he hoped to work with president-elect Joe Biden and other leaders to " rebuild " relationships with multilateral organizations like the UN and the World Health Organization . " I think there 's going to be more engagement on the multilateral front ... for example , on the environment , " Rae said , citing Biden 's promise to rejoin the Paris Agreement.Rae said he also expects to see improved engagement on other issues , including tackling the COVID-19 pandemic and renewed support for the WHO . " I think on a whole range of those fronts , things will be better . There 's still lots of disruptive forces ... but having one less is a good thing . " <p> WASHINGTON -- Demonstrations over President Donald Trump 's loss at the polls have resulted in charges against nearly two dozen people in Washington , including a person accused of setting off a commercial firework and four people accused in an assault that left the victim unconscious on the street.The arrests came during and after protesters and counterdemonstrators clashed Saturday in Northwest Washington . Several thousand people rallied during the day in support of Trump , whose motorcade briefly drove by the gathering protesters Saturday morning on the way to the president 's Northern Virginia golf club.Trump supporters marched from Freedom Plaza to the Supreme Court Building , across from the Capitol , during the day . Their activities and those of counterdemonstrators grew increasing tense and took a violent turn in the early evening . Videos posted to social media showed numerous incidents of shoving and punching as well as a fireworks explosion and a man shoving and knocking down one person before being shoved and punched unconscious himself by others.A 26-year-old District of Columbia man was charged with assault with a dangerous weapon after discharging the firework at several people , the Metropolitan Police Department said in a news release Sunday.Police said in another statement that four people , all but one confirmed as District residents , were arrested on various charges related to a man being knocked unconscious by one person and then assaulted by the others . Whether that incident was depicted in social media video was not clear.Police also reported a stabbing victim was treated at a hospital for nonlife-threatening injuries . Four police officers were injured as they responded to the unrest , and eight firearms were recovered , the department said.Police said at least 10 of those arrested were from the District of Columbia while others came from neighbouring Maryland and Virginia . Some of those arrested were from New York , New Jersey , South Carolina and Georgia , police said , and more suspects were being sought as authorities reviewed surveillance footage.Several other cities on Saturday saw gatherings of Trump supporters unwilling to accept Democrat Joe Biden 's Electoral College and popular vote victory as legitimate , including Phoenix ; Dallas ; Las Vegas ; Austin , Texas ; Lansing , Michigan ; and Salem , Oregon . Cries of " Stop the Steal " and " Count Every Vote " were common despite a lack of evidence of voter fraud or other problems that could reverse the result.The Associated Press <p> After winning a difficult race to equal Michael Schumacher 's record of seven Formula One championships on Sunday , the hardest thing for Lewis Hamilton was containing his emotions.His voice could be heard breaking as he thanked his team over the radio moments after crossing the line at the Turkish Grand Prix , while underneath the helmet the tears were starting to build up . " All these emotions were running through me and I was trying to stop it , " Hamilton said in his post-race news conference . " I was thinking about my whole career , from when I was five when I drove in a go-kart , from when we won the British championship , driving home with my dad and singing ' We Are The Champions ' and dreaming of being here . " Lance Stroll of Montreal finished ninth despite leading from pole position for much of the 58-lap race.A day earlier , Stroll had become the first Canadian to take a pole position at an F1 Grand Prix since Jacques Villeneuve accomplished the feat in 1997 . Moments after victory No. 94 and title No. 7 , Hamilton sat in his car with his head in his hands . " It really hit me and I just burst into tears . I could n't get out of the car because I just could n't believe it , " he said . " I did n't want the visor to come up and people to see tears flowing , because I had always said I would never let you see me cry . I remember watching drivers in the past crying and I was like ' I 'm not going to do that . ' But it was too much . " Speaking a short time after his win , Hamilton was wiping away those tears as he prepared to mount the podium . " I 'm definitely a bit lost for words , " he said , thanking his family . " I dreamed of this as a kid . This is way , way beyond our dreams . " Hamilton only had one title , with McLaren in 2008 , when he replaced Schumacher at Mercedes in 2013 . " Dream the impossible . You have got to chase it and never give up , " Hamilton said . " That 's for all the kids out there who dream the impossible . You can do it . " Hamilton only needed to finish ahead of his teammate Valtteri Bottas to seal his sixth title for Mercedes , and Bottas placed a lowly 14th after making a poor start.The British driver started from sixth place but still won a fourth straight race and 10th of another hugely dominant season . " I know I often I say it is beyond wildest dreams but my whole life secretly I have dreamt as high as this , " said Hamilton . " It felt so far-fetched . I remember watching Michael win those world championships . To get one or two or even three is so hard . " Seven is unimaginable . There is no end to what we can do together , me and this team . " Hamilton placed about 30 seconds ahead of Racing Point 's Sergio Perez and Ferrari 's Sebastian Vettel , who overtook teammate Charles Leclerc for his first podium of a difficult season . " It is a bit of a surprise to snatch the podium , but I am certainly very happy , " Vettel said . " It was quite intense but good fun . " It was also Perez 's first podium of the campaign.Vettel , a four-time F1 champion , was quick to congratulate his longtime rival , crouching by his cockpit and shaking his hand as he spoke.Hamilton won his first title with Mercedes in 2014 , and every one since except for 2016 when then-teammate Nico Rosberg beat him in an acrimonious battle that saw the teenage karting friends fall out . " Surely one of the greatest achievements in the history of sports , " Rosberg said on Twitter . " Congratulations Lewis and enjoy the celebrations with your family and friends . " Former England and Manchester United defender Rio Ferdinand Tweeted that Hamilton is " the greatest sportsman this country has ever produced . " Stroll started from pole ahead of Red Bull 's Max Verstappen on a resurfaced and skiddy circuit not used in F1 since 2011 . " This was a big test for me , " Hamilton said . " I do n't remember having an ice race before . " A chaotic start saw Verstappen stall while Hamilton moved up to third only to lose grip and get overtaken by Red Bull 's Alexander Albon and Verstappen . Vettel made a great move from 11th to third , but Bottas spun and dropped right down.The virtual safety car was activated on Lap 13 after Alfa Romeo 's Antonio Giovinazzi pulled over on the side of the track.The impatient Verstappen pushed too hard behind second-place Perez and lost control to spin twice on the track . He boxed for new tires again on Lap 19 . Halfway through the race , Stroll and Perez were ahead of Hamilton but losing ground . Stroll came in for new tires on Lap 37 and Hamilton used DRS to get past Perez one lap later and take the lead.Stroll 's tire change backfired and he was soon passed by both Ferraris , while Bottas spun for the fourth time at the back of the pack.On a humiliating day for the Finnish driver , he was lapped by Hamilton near the end.The next step for Hamilton is signing a new contract , and he hinted contract talks will start soon . " Definitely is something we do need to get onto , " he said . " I wanted to put it aside and wait until the job is done . Probably over the next weeks ... But we will get it done , I 'm sure . " More AP auto racing : https : **27;314;TOOLONG and https : **27;343;TOOLONG Pugmire , The Associated Press <p> A 26-year-old Markham man serving a life sentence for second-degree murder died while in custody last week , said Correctional Service Canada ( CSC ) in a news release . Qin Long Xue was found unresponsive in his cell at the Collins Bay Institution in Kingston , Ont. at around 12 a.m . November 11 , said the Ontario Provincial Police ( OPP ) , East Region , in a statement . Xue was then transported to a hospital.On November 13 , Xue was pronounced dead at the hospital . The OPP-led Penitentiary Squad , which is under the direction of the OPP Criminal Investigation Branch , is investigating the death with assistance from CSC , Kingston Police Forensic Identification Services and Office of the Chief Coroner for Ontario , said the OPP . In spring 2017 , Xue and four other men were charged with first-degree murder and kidnapping after 50-year-old Kong Wu Wang , from Toronto , was found lying on Old Kennedy Road just north of Steeles Ave . on Nov. 7 , 2016 . The cause of Wang 's death was determined to be a gunshot wound , York Regional Police said . York Regional police at the time alleged the five men suspected in the case were waiting for two men in a parking lot in north Toronto . They say the accused grabbed one man and allegedly bound and forced him into a vehicle and held him against his will.Police allege the accused shot the second man and while they were putting him into the vehicle , the other man escaped.The second man was later identified as Wang , said OPP in the statement about Xue 's death.Xue began serving his sentence in Februrary , 2020 . In a statement , CSC said they take " the death of an inmate very seriously " and that it 's mandated they review the circumstance of any inmate death while they are in custody . <p> Derek and Lisa Stephenson had accepted they would n't see their parents this year.The Canadian couple lives in Massachusetts and had been denied entry to New Brunswick under COVID-19 travel restrictions . That meant being unable to support Lisa 's mother in her battle with cancer . " We had resigned ourselves to being away from the family , " said Derek Stephenson.But that changed Friday when a Department of Public Safety official called to tell them the rules had changed , allowing them to come . " This was a much-welcomed surprise , " Derek said . " We definitely did n't anticipate the province to reassess and make changes . " New Brunswick loosened its rules for visiting family on Friday , which went further than federal restrictions on non-essential travel across the international border.That change aligns the province 's entry rules with federal standards . People from around the world can enter to visit immediate family members , which New Brunswick previously limited to only residents of Canadian provinces and territories . ' I 'm just grateful'Travellers must be approved by the Canadian Border Services Agency and are still required to apply through the New Brunswick Travel Registration Program.The U.S. land border has been closed since March to stop the spread of COVID-19 . Under an exemption created in June , immediate family members of Canadian citizens and permanent residents can enter.After months of advocacy , that definition was recently expanded to include those in a committed relationship , grandparents , grandchildren , siblings and adult children.The Stephensons moved from the Moncton area to the U.S. five years ago when Derek 's employer in information security asked him to relocate.After nearly a year apart due to the pandemic , the Stephensons applied to visit their parents and siblings.Officials from the Canada Border Services Agency told them they would n't have any issues entering the country since they are Canadian citizens . But New Brunswick 's travel registration program denied the couple entry.Public Safety said its guidelines did not permit Canadian citizens living in the U.S. or abroad to visit New Brunswick , even to see immediate family.The Stephensons were told Friday they will be permitted to enter after reapplying and have made plans to leave in a week to reunite with their parents and siblings . " The manager had said that they had made quite a few calls Friday morning to tears of joy , " said Derek . " It 's just put a lot of strain on people local and away . I 'm just grateful that they had a look at it and we 're able to come back . " Legal issues consideredThe changes to the province 's mandatory order went into effect on Friday.Public Safety says international visitors still need to apply and receive confirmation from New Brunswick 's travel registration program . " Government continuously monitors developments and amends its approach accordingly , to balance health , economic and societal concerns , " said spokesperson Coreen Enos.Department staff are reaching out to people who recently applied to visit family and had their applications denied.The prior restrictions faced scrutiny for making a distinction between residents and non-residents of Canada . Controlling international travel and citizenship falls entirely under federal jurisdiction.Enos said the revisions are decided by cabinet , after consultation with the all-party committee on COVID-19 and the chief medical officer . Advice from the office of the attorney general has been requested since the start of the state of emergency , she said.Changes too late for someThe COVID-19 restrictions on international travel left Carly Fleet separated for months from Sean Bodden , her Trinidadian fianc ? . The federal government released an exemption for family reunification in June , but it left out committed partners who did not qualify as common law spouses.Bodden and Fleet had been apart for work , which left them unable to reunite.After more than a hundred days , Fleet left her home on Grand Manan so the couple could reunite in Europe . They navigated the obstacles of limited flights , changing international travel rules and avoided geopolitical unrest by living in Turkey and Portugal.They were relieved when the Canadian government announced a broadened definition of family in early October that would include Bodden . " We were elated , " Fleet said . ' It had to be a mistake'The federal changes created an application process with Immigration , Refugees and Citizenship Canada . Bodden received approval less than two weeks later and the couple began booking flights and preparing to return to Grand Manan.But New Brunswick denied Bodden 's travel registration application with the province . " To find that out , I was just completely shocked , " Fleet said . " I thought it had to be a mistake . " After emails and phone calls , the couple challenged the decision and was finally able to receive approval , through an exemption , with a new provincial application.The couple is back home and self-isolating on Grand Manan after the pandemic put their future on hold . " It 's still a bit surreal to be honest , " Fleet said.She said their experience returning to New Brunswick would have been much easier had Friday 's changes already been in place . " It definitely would have been a lot less stressful . " <p> November is National Eczema Awareness Month . The chronic inflammatory skin condition is characterized by dry , red , intensely itchy skin that can crack and even bleed . Dermatologist Sonya Abdulla has tips and tricks on how to help Canadians manage symptoms in time for the winter months . <p> As the sun was setting on September 24 , 2019 , Prime Minister Justin Trudeau held a large , open-air rally in Surrey , B.C. Hundreds of supporters crowded around the Liberal leader as he shook hands , posed for selfies and signed autographs , his RCMP detail slowly clearing a path through the crush toward the campaign bus.That was how they used to do it -- big crowds , high contact . Rallies form a major part of most political campaigns ; Trudeau 's Liberals built two winning election campaigns in part on large rallies . That was before local health authorities cracked down on large gatherings to curb the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic -- a global health emergency that has upended almost every aspect of life in this country , including elections.WATCH : Justin Trudeau exits a rally during 2019 campaignThe question of how to conduct a political campaign in the midst of a pandemic is a fraught one . The experience of the United States -- where the campaign of incumbent President Donald Trump chose to stage large rallies in defiance of public health guidance , and despite warnings that the rallies would serve as " super-spreader " events -- shows how public health measures can quickly turn into political flashpoints when votes are at stake.Every election campaign in Canada is split between the bright lights of the party leaders ' tours and the dogged work of volunteers on the ground , going door to door to in 338 ridings . But the next federal election campaign might see a party leader 's tour reduced to just the leader , the local candidate and the journalists on the bus -- while the groundwork might have to change completely.Canada 's Chief Electoral Officer Stephane Perrault recently told the Commons procedure and House affairs committee that , as long as the pandemic continues , election campaigns will have follow local public health guidelines , which could differ from riding to riding . " They will advise on what behaviours are acceptable or advisable ... during the pandemic , based on the rates , and those behaviours will inform our ability to safely conduct an election , " he said.The Trudeau government survived a self-imposed confidence vote last month . If it falls in the near future , or if the next scheduled election campaign happens when pandemic restrictions are still in place , the parties will have to establish unique campaign protocols for each region of the country , depending on the local state of outbreaks.The Atlantic Bubble problemTake the case of the 32 ridings in Atlantic Canada . Regulations require any Canadian entering the " Atlantic bubble " to self-isolate for two weeks . That 's not really practical for election campaigns that tend to last 50 days on average . So would leaders ' tours have to take a pass on an entire region because of COVID-19 ? How would that affect get-out-the-vote efforts ? If the federal parties are asking themselves these questions , they 're not asking Elections Canada yet ; the agency tells CBC News the federal parties have n't sought clarification on how leaders ' tours could be conducted.Planning leaders ' tours might actually be one of the simpler tasks facing campaign managers in a pandemic election . Campaigns frequently sink or rise on the strength of their door-to-door canvassing.For the duration of an ordinary campaign , election workers cram themselves into temporary office spaces or carpool to distant neighbourhoods to knock on doors . Those local campaign offices would be far less crowded in a pandemic election , as staffers self-distance and work remotely.The recent federal byelections in Toronto offered a glimpse of what this throttled-back groundwork might look like . Toronto Centre ( one of the most densely populated urban ridings in Canada ) and York Centre held byelections when infection rates were running high -- as they are today.Elections Canada asked campaigns to follow local public health regulations and to take some extra precautions : do n't touch doorbells , avoid distributing campaign material ( pamphlets , buttons ) , avoid carpooling ( unless you can keep the windows open ) and keep party scrutineers away from polls at long-term care centres . Elections Canada did n't mention the common practice of campaigns driving supporters to polling stations , but it seems likely that it would recommend an approach similar to the rules for carpooling.But again , conditions on the ground will dictate what campaigns can and ca n't do . Canada is experiencing not one pandemic , but many ; transmission rates differ substantially between one region and another . Elections Canada tells CBC News that campaign conditions may differ from riding to riding and that local returning officers will give current guidance to local campaign organizations once an election is called . " We will , of course , follow the guidance of local health authorities . That 's why it 's important in a pandemic election that there be clear contact established locally between the health authorities and the returning officers so that they know who to call during the election and what process to follow . " said Perrault.The provincial experienceThe recent experience of provincial elections shows how political parties can struggle to adapt old campaign techniques to the new conditions of the pandemic . Minority governments in British Columbia and New Brunswick called snap elections -- B.C. in late October , New Brunswick in September -- and secured themselves majority mandates . Saskatchewan held a fixed-date election last month that returned the governing Saskatchewan Party to power with another majority.When New Brunswick 's election campaign started in mid-August , the province was reporting fewer than 20 of cases of COVID-19 . The campaign started in confusion over how public health restrictions might affect campaigning.Premier Blaine Higgs told reporters his Progressive Conservatives would n't campaign door to door or leave campaign materials in mailboxes . But People 's Alliance campaign staffers did go door to door , as did a Green Party candidate ( briefly ) . The source of the confusion seemed to be the distinction between " requirement " and " guidance . " " I would n't say that there was an agreement among the parties about what they would or would not do ... certain parties made it very clear that they were not going to do door-to-door campaigning , " New Brunswick 's Chief Electoral Officer Kim Poffenroth told MPs on the House affairs committee . " I think some started doing door-to-door campaigning but received a negative reaction from householders . When the premier called the election , he indicated that his party would not be doing door-to-door campaigning , and I think there was a misconception that that was a rule we had implemented that applied to everyone . We did get some calls about that , and we said , ' No , that 's up to individual candidates and parties to determine . ' " The provincial riding of Charlottetown-Winsloe in Prince Edward Island held a byelection recently ; the Progressive Conservatives won the seat , giving their government a narrow majority.P.E.I . Chief Electoral Officer Tim Garrity told MPs on the House affairs committee that two provincial parties decided to campaign door-to-door and two did not . " The two parties that decided to do door-to-door campaigning did have to submit a plan to our chief public health officer to ensure that it met with their standards and guidelines , and it had to be approved before they were able to proceed , " he said.Both Poffenroth and Garrity said that , as far as they could tell , the absence of any agreement among the parties on how ( or whether ) to conduct door-to-door campaigning did n't have any effect on the conduct of the elections themselves.In Saskatchewan , meanwhile , the provincial election authority told the parties to follow the pandemic guidelines salespeople follow when campaigning door-to-door : maintain physical distancing , do n't work when you 're sick and do n't make physical contact with members of the public . The elections authority said pamphlets could be placed in mailboxes , but campaign workers should only carpool with members of their households.Some voters ' uncomfortable ' with canvassing " Our canvassing guidelines allow for door-to-door and have for several months , in a way that , I would say , minimizes risk close to zero , " said Dr. Saqib Shahab , Saskatchewan 's chief medical health officer . " We ca n't predict how individuals will feel about people knocking on their door . Some are fine , some feel uncomfortable . But certainly the guidelines would minimize any risk of transmission . " B.C. 's Chief Electoral Officer Anton Boegman was n't warned in advance of the snap election call . He brought the parties together last summer with medical health experts to talk about the campaign . " I felt it important to bring together the parties as well as the medical health experts to talk about the issues , what the challenges are , how typical campaigning activities should need to be modified to meet the public health requirements , " he told MPs on the House affairs committee , adding his office saw no problems during the election.Dr . Bonnie Henry , B.C. 's provincial health officer , also told MPs on the committee she met with party representatives " a number of times to make sure each party had guidance on how they could conduct campaigns safely during COVID . " " We talked about things like going door to door and what that would look like , having smaller gatherings , not allowing large groups together , wearing masks and all of those things that are important in campaigning safely during this period of time , " she said.B.C. ' s public health rules for elections state that campaign gatherings should maintain physical distancing , include no more than 50 participants , provide assigned seating and barriers where necessary , collect contact information from participants and , where possible , take place outdoors . The rules strongly encourage holding campaign events online.Henry was asked by Manitoba NDP MP Daniel Blaikie if federal parties should agree on how to conduct key campaign activities before the next election arrives . " Yes , " she replied . " I heard a lot of concern in communities about people going door to door , " she added . " That is part of political campaigning , I understand that , but there are alternative ways of doing that and making sure that people know they could signal their concerns if they do n't want somebody to come to their door . " Omar Alghabra is a veteran Liberal MP from Mississauga , which has seen high numbers of COVID cases . He asked Perrault if Elections Canada had given any thought to regulating how candidates conduct their campaigns.His answer was blunt : " We do not have any authority to regulate how candidates campaign during the pandemic . I want to be clear about that . " So it may fall to provincial public health officials like Dr. Henry to tell the parties how to run an election campaign at a time when everyone 's staying in one place.The " important thing , " she said , " is having clear guidance about what is acceptable and what is not , and then parties holding each other accountable for making sure they 're following that guidance . " I think most people want to do the right thing . I am very thankful that we do n't have that type of political rhetoric around the important measures that we need to take to prevent the transmission of this virus in Canada . " <p> When Elwood Beck returned home from fighting in Italy during the Second World War , his relatives knew something was n't quite right.He moved into the family farm on about 200 acres of land near Murray River in eastern P.E.I. , but he could n't bring himself to kill anything , not even a tree.Back then they called it shell shock , said his great nephew , Paul Jenkins . Now it would be considered post-traumatic stress disorder . He refused to take his veterans pension , and only agreed years later when family convinced him . " He 's a bit of an eccentric guy , " Jenkins said . " The way I understand it is he had had enough and seen enough pain and suffering in the war so he would never cut a tree down or anything like that so he would much rather burn scraps than hurt nature . " Beck died in 1991 , and while there appear to be no family photographs of him , remnants of his eccentric life can be seen along a hiking trail Jenkins created in 2010 after he and his late father , Jim , inherited the land.Cars among the treesThe first thing hikers will notice are the handful of old cars tucked in among the trees . It 's easy to imagine bygone family trips in the old Pontiac station wagon , or someone -- Elwood ? -- hauling something in the old Ford pickup . One of the cars has a 1966 licence plate.Jenkins said people often wonder how the cars ended up in the forest , since there is no way they could get in or out . " Like every other farm , you did n't have Waste Watch . Over the last 40 or 50 years , the forest just grew up around it . " Flora Jenkins , Paul 's mother , is n't sure if the cars belonged to Beck , because she remembers him walking everywhere he went , even from Murray River to her home in Charlottetown -- where she would feed him and insist he take a bath , because he was often covered in soot and had no running water where he lived . ' Kind of an introvert ' " He walked a lot , but he did have a licence , " she said . " He was just a nice , innocent , harmless person -- kind of an introvert . " Paul Jenkins said Beck had moved into the woodshed after taking the old homestead and garage apart " shingle by shingle " to burn for heat , despite being surrounded by acres and acres of trees . " It does n't make any sense , " Jenkins said . " And after he was done with that , he still would n't cut any trees so he would go down to Beaver 's Garage in Murray River and roll the tires back to Beck Trail , or the home , and burn tires . So the poor guy obviously had some PTSD from fighting in Italy which was too bad . " Great-grandfather made moonshineThe woodshed where Beck spent his final days before moving to Gillis Lodge is still standing and is part of the trail , as are the foundations of the home and garage.On another part of the trail is an old still where Jenkins 's great-grandfather made alcohol out of molasses.Jenkins said his father , who died in August , was environmentally conscious and wanted people to be able to enjoy the property . Jenkins , along with Oliver Murray and Lowell Stevenson , developed the 10-kilometre trail and , in the first few years , held mountain bike races . " We wanted the local community to enjoy it , find it out , move , walk and enjoy some of the quirky things on the trail too , " he said . " It 's kind of neat to snake through the trees and see a car . We just want people to enjoy the woods . " More from CBC P.E.I. <p> JERUSALEM -- A settlement watchdog group said Sunday Israel is moving ahead with new construction of hundreds of homes in a strategic east Jerusalem settlement that threatens to cut off parts of the city claimed by Palestinians from the West Bank.The group , Peace Now , said the Israel Land Authority announced on its website Sunday that it had opened up tenders for more than 1,200 new homes in the key settlement of Givat Hamatos in east Jerusalem.The move may test ties with the incoming administration of President-elect Joe Biden , who is expected to take a firmer tack against Israeli settlement expansion after four years of a more lenient policy under President Donald Trump , who has largely turned a blind eye to settlement construction.With the Trump administration in its final weeks in office , Israel may be aiming to push ahead on contentious projects before Biden 's term starts , a move that could set it on the wrong foot with the new president.The approval of the 1,200 homes is a further setback to dwindling hopes of an internationally backed partition deal that would enable the establishment of a Palestinian state alongside Israel.The Palestinians , along with critics of Israel 's settlement policy , say construction in the Givat Hamatos settlement would seal off the Palestinian city of Bethlehem and the southern West Bank from east Jerusalem , further cutting off access for the Palestinians to that part of the city . " This is a continuation of the current Israeli government policy in destroying the two-state solution , " said Nabil Abu Rdeneh , a spokesman to Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas.Sunday 's development comes as Secretary of State Mike Pompeo is set to travel to the region this week , where he is expected to visit an Israeli settlement in the West Bank -- a stop previous U.S. secretaries of state have avoided . Palestinian officials , who have cut off ties with the Trump administration over its policies in favour of Israel , have denounced Pompeo 's planned visit . Palestinian Prime Minister Mohammad Shtayyeh tweeted on Friday that this was a " dangerous precedent " that legalizes settlements.Brian Reeves , a spokesman for Peace Now , said the move Sunday allows contractors to begin bidding on the tenders , a process that will conclude just days before Biden 's inauguration . Construction could then begin within months . " This is a lethal blow to the prospects for peace , " Peace Now said in a statement , adding that Israel was " taking advantage of the final weeks of the Trump administration in order to set facts on the ground that will be exceedingly hard to undo in order to achieve peace . " The Palestinians seek the West Bank , along with the Gaza Strip and east Jerusalem -- areas Israel captured in the 1967 Mideast war -- for their future state . With nearly 500,000 settlers now living in the West Bank , and over 220,000 more in east Jerusalem , the Palestinians say the chances of establishing their state are quickly dwindling.Israel views the entire city of Jerusalem as its eternal , undivided capital.The European Union 's foreign policy chief , Josep Borrell , said he was deeply worried about Israel 's latest announcement , saying construction in Givat Hamatos would cause serious damage to the prospects for Palestinian independence . " The announced settlement activity will lead to the continuing weakening of efforts to rebuild trust and confidence between the parties , " he said . " The government of Israel should instead show vision and responsibility and reverse these negative decisions at this critical and sensitive time . " Much of Jerusalem is already blocked off from the West Bank by a series of checkpoints and the separation barrier . Israel has previously moved forward on plans to build in E1 , another sensitive area east of Jerusalem that critics say , with Givat Hamatos , would block east Jerusalem off entirely from the West Bank.After four years of Trump , whose policies were hugely favourable toward Israel and who shrugged at settlement building , Israel faces a new reality under Biden , who will likely restore the previous U.S. position that viewed settlements as illegitimate and an obstacle to peace with the Palestinians.Under previous administrations , Israel held back on building plans in the most sensitive areas , including Givat Hamatos , amid opposition by both Washington and the international community , which saw such plans as dashing hopes for a contiguous Palestinian state.But Israel has been emboldened under Trump , approving thousands of new settlement homes during his term , including in highly contested areas . Many of those plans are expected to break ground after Biden assumes the presidency.Tia Goldenberg , The Associated Press <p> Friends of a Chestermere , Alta. , man who police believe was murdered held a fundraiser Saturday night to support parents ' efforts to locate his body.Shane Eric James Smith , 20 , was reported missing by family members on June 7 . He was last seen the day before in McKenzie Towne , a neighbourhood in Calgary 's southeast . Investigators with the Calgary Police Service believe Smith was killed sometime late at night on June 6 at a residence in southeast Calgary . Three people have been charged in connection to the alleged homicide , but Smith 's body still has n't been found , despite multiple searches by police as well as family and friends.Smith 's sister Cassie gave an emotional public plea in the summer to anyone who has information , including the men charged in connection to the killing . " In an ideal world this would n't have happened and these guys would at least say why or where , or help , " she said.She says the money from this event will help her family continue looking for her brother 's body . " Anything that needs to be hired , boats and companies or whatever we can do to help find him , " she said . " I 've watched my parents reach out to so many different things out of their pocket so the fact that people want to help is really amazing . " Kim Calder , an organized of the fundraiser , says Smith was one of her son 's best friends . " There 's no words for it , it 's just the worst thing that you can possibly imagine . " Calder was involved in several of the searches for Smith 's body , and says she hopes the fundraiser and other efforts will help locate him . " That 's basically what we 're after here , raising awareness and , you know , bringing Shane home , " she said . <p> TORONTO -- When COVID-19 began spreading across Canada and face masks became the year 's hottest fashion accessory , Hilary MacMillan uncovered an opportunity . The Toronto fashion designer noticed people wanted a way to make their masks trendy and keep them handy when having to take them off for a bite to eat , so she joined the waves of retailers selling mask chains -- 70-centimetre lengths of marble or gold that MacMillan has designed to hang from masks and provide a hint of style . " COVID has kind of pushed everyone into new directions and that 's the same with us , " said MacMillan.Her $25 mask chains are part of a growing group of products entrepreneurs have dreamed up to target just about every mask-related want , need or problem . Ca n't stop your mask from irritating your nose or ears ? There are headbands , ear muffs and hats to attach the straps to , soft pads you can add to problem spots and clips to keep masks in place . Is covering up causing you to break out in maskne ( mask-induced acne ) ? Look out for sheet masks , cleansers and moisturizers targeted at the lower half of your face . Not sure where to put your mask when dining out or at the dentist ? Consider pouches , bags and containers in just about every size and material . If you 're sporting facial hair , there are beard guards that fit with masks and if you wear glasses , sprays and lenses that promise to reduce or eliminate fog too . " You 're literally watching a product category be born and it 's going to grow , " said Joanne McNeish , an associate professor at Ryerson University specializing in marketing.There 's plenty of money to be made in the new market , she said , because people are realizing masks are going to be part of their lives for longer than they imagined , and while out in public they 're stumbling on problems like chafed noses or the need for storage space.Just 15 per cent of face masks being sold are described as comfortable , 6 per cent are marketed as breathable and 7 per cent are called lightweight , according to research from U.K.-based retail market intelligence company Edited.Entrepreneurs who can address such problems and predict that unmet need early stand to win , said McNeish.However , health experts caution that not all of these innovations are a good idea.Dr . Vinita Dubey , Toronto Public Health 's associate medical officer of health , said in an email to The Canadian Press that she does not recommend mask lanyards or chains because they can get caught around the wearer 's neck or become contaminated . People who need to take face coverings off , she said , should store them in a paper bag , envelope or something that does not retain moisture . Plastic bags should only be used for short periods of time and containers must be disinfected regularly.Regardless of whether an item is encouraged by public health officials , McNeish says entrepreneurs face the challenge of waning interest.The marketplace can become crowded with similar products and some businesses may create far superior products than what was first available . " And how many of each of these things will you really need ? " she added.McNeish believes the next wave of mask accessories will involve products that work with Halloween costumes , helmets for winter sports and scarves or that take items that have proven to be hits and make them luxurious or adaptable for health-care workers or other industries.In Dunmore , Alta. , Rick Brink has been using that logic to appeal to brides and grooms.He runs Weddingstar Inc. , a business specializing in bridal products that sells mask travel bags , headbands to hook masks on and a plastic piece you attach to the straps of a mask to prevent ear chafe . " We wanted to make them so everyone does n't look like they are walking out of the hospital , " he said.The products are appealing to shoppers beyond the wedding market and help the company offset smaller order sizes now that weddings must limit attendees and many couples have put off their nuptials altogether.Next , Brink said , he will introduce products that help people defog glasses and keep makeup from rubbing off on masks.While companies are seeing a buzz around their mask accessories now , McNeish warns that it might not last forever . " At one point when masks are over , the mask accessories industry will collapse because it just wo n't be strong enough , " she said . " Then the question will be will there be demand in countries where they wear masks all the time and will we continue to wear masks when they tell us this is over ? " This report by The Canadian Press was first published Nov. 15 , 2020 . Tara Deschamps , The Canadian Press <p> Ontario reported 1,248 COVID-19 cases and 29 new deaths on Sunday.Health Minister Christine Elliott said 364 of those cases were found in Toronto , 308 in Peel Region and 125 in York Region.More than 42,200 tests were completed , she said.Ontario is also reporting that 1,062 more cases are marked as resolved.Currently , there are 479 people in hospital . Of those hospitalized , 118 are in intensive care units ( ICUs ) and 67 are on ventilators . Lockdown a possibility for OntarioAs cases have sharply risen in the province Ontario may be facing the prospect of another , more strict lockdown to curb the spread of COVID-19.Deaths and hospitalizations have also increased in the province in the last several days . Between Sunday and Saturday , the number of deaths jumped by 45 per cent , according to Ontario 's epidemiologic summary . " We 're staring down the barrel of another lockdown , " Ontario Premier Doug Ford said at a press conference on Friday . " And I will not hesitate for a second if we have to go further . " Ford 's comments came after new modelling was released Thursday , that showed 6,500 daily new cases are possible by mid-December if no further action is taken.The modelling also showed intensive care units could become overwhelmed within six weeks , as 118 people are in ICUs as of Sunday . WATCH New modelling shows ICUs could be overwhelmed within weeks:On Friday , Chief medical officer of health Dr. David Williams said how a new lockdown may look in Ontario has not yet been determined . There are several questions around whether a possible lockdown would impact schools or not , as thousands of infections have been reported since the school year began . Several experts told CBC News this week , that they would n't want to see the school system close or hospital services put on pause again . But strategic action needs to be taken soon , they said . On Sunday , Dr. Theresa Tam , Canada 's top doctor , issued a statement that the number of people experiencing severe illness from COVID-19 has grown . She said provincial and territorial data shows that an average of 1,438 people with COVID-19 were being treated in Canadian hospitals each day over the last seven days . " As hospitalizations and deaths tend to lag behind increased cases by one to several weeks , the concern is that we have yet to see the extent of severe impacts associated with the ongoing increase in COVID-19 disease activity , " she said . She explained that influenza and respiratory infections tend to increase during fall and winter , and this will place an increased demand on hospitals . " This is why it is so important for people of all ages to maintain public health practices that keep respiratory infection rates low , " she said.7 dead in Scarborough long-term care centre outbreakA COVID-19 outbreak at a long-term care home in Scarborough has resulted in seven deaths while another 136 residents and 66 staff members are infected . Sienna Senior Living said on its website that the current outbreak at Rockcliffe Care Community , 3015 Lawrence Avenue E. , west of McCowan Road , began on Nov. 2 . The home has 204 beds . It confirmed the deaths and latest case numbers in an email on Saturday . " We are grateful to our partners and team members who are working very hard to protect the health of our residents during the second wave of the pandemic . The safety of everyone in our residences is our highest priority as the province experiences unprecedented rates of COVID-19 , " Nadia Daniell-Colarossi , manager of media relations for Sienna , said in the email.The home is working with Toronto Public Health , Scarborough Health Network and Sienna 's physician experts , Dr. Andrea Moser , chief medical officer , and Dr. Allison McGeer , chief infection prevention and control consultant , to respond to the outbreak , Daniell-Colarossi said.Measures in place at Rockcliffe to prevent further spread of the virus include droplet and contact precautions throughout the building , requiring that all residents remain in their rooms and only allowing essential visitors into the home.Confirmation of the deaths comes after Elliott said at a news conference on Friday that Ontario has " significantly invested " in protecting those in long-term care homes and is building an " iron ring " around them . Over 80 people have died in long-term care over the last week . According to Elliott , the province is taking steps to ensure there is personal protective equipment for staff in homes , that residents are protected from transmission and testing of staff and residents is done on a regular basis . Peel to fine businesses that fail to take action against COVID-19 spreadAs Peel is moved into the red zone , the region 's public health unit said in a press release that it has created new fines that will see businesses charged if they " fail to take necessary action to prevent or stop spread of COVID-19 . " The red zone , which is the most strict zone before a total lockdown , now includes a positivity rate of 2.5 per cent and a weekly incidence rate of above 40 per 100,000 people.In the red zone , gatherings are confined to 10 people indoors and 25 people outdoors . Religious services , weddings and funerals are confined to 30 per cent capacity indoors and 100 people outdoors.Businesses will face a fine of up to $5,000 per day under a Section 22 Order that mandates employers implement protections for workers and cooperate with outbreak investigations when they occur in the workplace.The order requires employers to not allow workers who have tested positive for COVID-19 to enter the workplace and requires them to instruct their staff to self-isolate if this is the case . It also requires employers to : ensure infection control measures are in place , including distancing and masks , notify Peel Public Health and the Ministry of Labour if two or more employees have tested positive , and co-operate with directives from both those bodies . The region notes that while Ontario 's Health Protection and Promotion Act does not compel employers to create paid sick leave , Peel Health " strongly recommends " that businesses do so . <p> Two people are dead after a car crashed into a guardrail and caught fire on Highway 427 , near Highway 409 , on Saturday night , Toronto Fire Services said . Platoon Chief Paul Versace said fire crews from Toronto and Mississauga arrived on the scene shortly after 9:20 p.m.The fire was put out within minutes and one victim was removed from the vehicle by extrication . The two people were pronounced dead at the scene . CBC News has contacted Ontario Provincial Police for more information . <p> WASHINGTON -- President Donald Trump on Sunday appeared to acknowledge for the first time that Joe Biden won the White House , but made clear he would not concede and would keep trying to overturn the election result . Trump 's statements came in tweets that included several baseless claims about the Nov. 3 vote , which state and federal officials say was safe and secure.Trump , without using Biden 's name , tweeted that " He won , " something Trump had not said before publicly , though he said the Democrat 's victory was only " in the eyes " of the media . Biden defeated Trump by winning back a trio of battleground states that switched from the Democratic column in 2016 -- Michigan , Wisconsin and Pennsylvania -- and topped the 270 electoral vote threshold to clinch the presidency . Biden so far has 78.8 million votes , the most ever by a winning candidate , to Trump 's total -- more than 73 million . " If the president 's prepared to begin to recognize that reality , that 's positive , " Biden 's incoming chief of staff , Ron Klain told NBC 's " Meet the Press . " Still , Klain said , " Donald Trump 's Twitter feed does n't make Joe Biden president or not president . The American people did that . " A Republican governor said " it was good actually " to see Trump 's tweet that Biden won . " I think that 's the start of an acknowledgment . ... We want to make sure that there is a smooth transition , " said Arkansas ' Asa Hutchinson on NBC.The president has previously refused to accept the results of the election and , in a later tweet Sunday , he dug in again , saying , " I concede NOTHING ! We have a long way to go . " Even while seemingly acknowledging Biden 's victory , he also argued without evidence that the former vice-president only won because the election was " rigged . " Trump then made unsubstantiated complaints about access for poll watchers and about vote tabulations and asserted , " WE WILL WIN ! " Twitter soon posted warning labels about the tweets.There has been no widespread fraud in the 2020 election . In fact , election officials from both political parties have stated publicly that the election went well and international observers confirmed there were no serious irregularities.Trump 's campaign has tried to mount legal challenges across the country , but many of the lawsuits have been thrown out and none has included any evidence that the outcome might be reversed.Former President Barack Obama , in an interview conducted and aired Sunday on CBS ' " 60 Minutes , " said he would remind Trump that , as president , he is a public servant and a temporary occupant of the office . " And when your time is up then it is your job to put the country first and think beyond your own ego , and your own interests , and your own disappointments , " Obama said . " My advice to President Trump is , if you want at this late stage in the game to be remembered as somebody who put country first , it 's time for you to do the same thing . " Obama also criticized those Republicans going along with Trump 's false claims of widespread voter fraud . " I 'm more troubled by the fact that other Republican officials who clearly know better are going along with this , are humouring him in this fashion . It is one more step in delegitimizing not just the incoming Biden administration , but democracy generally . And that 's a dangerous path , " he said.Nearly two weeks after Election Day , Trump has neither called Biden nor made a formal concession , and White House officials have insisted that they are preparing for a second term.In recent days , Trump appeared to be inching closer to acknowledging the reality of his loss . In comments Friday in the Rose Garden about a coronavirus vaccine , Trump said his administration would " not be going to a lockdown " to slow the spread of COVID-19 , and added that " whatever happens in the future , who knows which administration it will be ? I guess time will tell . " Trump on Sunday renewed his groundless attacks on an election technology firm , Dominion Voting Systems , without evidence of any serious irregularities . Dominion has said it " denies claims about any vote switching or alleged software issues with our voting systems . " The Cybersecurity &amp; Infrastructure Security Agency , a federal agency that oversees U.S. election security , said in a statement last week that the " November 3rd election was the most secure in American history . " The agency said , " There is no evidence that any voting system deleted or lost votes , changed votes , or was in any way compromised . " In his latest fundraising email , Trump told supporters that " we are fighting to ensure EVERY SINGLE LEGAL ballot is counted " and that he had " legal teams on the ground in every critical state . " John Bolton , a former Trump national security adviser , said it was important for party leaders to explain to voters that Trump did lose and that his claims of election fraud are baseless . Bolton left the administration last year . He says he resigned ; Trump says he fired Bolton . " I think as every day goes by , it 's clearer and clearer there is n't any evidence . But if the Republican voters are only hearing Donald Trump 's misrepresentations , it 's not surprising that they believe it , " Bolton said on ABC 's " This Week . " " It 's critical for other Republican leaders to stand up and explain what actually happened . Donald Trump lost what by any evidence we have so far was a free and fair election . " Having none of that was Rudy Giuliani , the president 's personal attorney who is helping lead Trump 's national legal front on the election challenge . In a television appearance that Trump previewed on Twitter after his morning tweets , Giuliani denied Trump was conceding -- " No , no , no , far from it . " " I guess , ' ' Giuliani told Fox News Channel 's " Sunday Morning Futures , " " you would call it sarcastic . " Associated Press writers Will Weissert in Wilmington , Delaware , and Zeke Miller contribute to this report . This story has been corrected to reflect that Trump 's tweet said , " He won , " not " Biden won . " Kevin Freking , The Associated Press <p> When snow covers the ground and roads ice over , cycling through the city can feel completely different from summer riding . People who worry about going to gyms or other indoor winter activities during the COVID-19 pandemic , may look to winter cycling as a safer option . Transitioning to winter cycling can be easier than it appears at first glance . This month , CBC 's Edmonton AM is profiling different ways to stay active during the winter , and winter cycling is one that 's seeing a surge of interest . Shops like Pedalhead Bicycle Works said earlier this fall they 've seen double the interest in winter cycling this year . At Redbike in Edmonton 's Garneau neighbourhood , a year-over-year increase is seeing a dramatic uptick this year , according to co-owner Cliff Vallentgoed . Winter cycling can be a daunting slog , Vallentgoed said , but can also offer wonderful , rewarding moments . For new winter cyclists , Vallentgoed offered some advice for the season . Staying warm There are two kinds of winter cyclists , Vallentgoed said : commuters and active cyclists . Commuters ' ride to work or school might be short enough they could bundle up as they normally would , especially their face , feet and hands , and not worry about overheating . But for active cyclists on longer rides , " the old axiom about dressing in layers very much holds true , " Vallentgoed said . Fabrics that are moisture wicking or have better temperature control are ideal , he said . Traction on winter roads The most common concern Vallentgoed hears is about traction on the ice and snow . Fat bikes are popular for winter cycling as they are sturdier and put more rubber on the road , Vallentgoed said . With their wider tires , they can ride over ruts in the snow . " The terrain varies day-to-day , week-to-week because of snow pack and tread with the motorists , " Vallentgoed said . " So having a wide tread allows you to stay on track and avoid crashing due to undulating surfaces . " If you 're sticking with your mountain bike , Vallentgoed recommends you opt for studded tires which come in all sizes . Winter cycling on a budget Before studded tires became popular , cyclists often made their own using metal screws . Vallentgoed said making your own is an inexpensive project . Buy sheet metal screws and duct tape from a hardware store and look online for a DIY studded-tires guide . For the bike itself , Vallentgoed recommends finding an inexpensive used mountain bike . Getting out on the road Once you have your bike and your winter wear , hitting the road can still be intimidating . " If it is icy , even if you have the most aggressive studded tires out there , you still need to ride with caution , " Vallentgoed said . The conditions that can be most challenging are what Edmonton is seeing right now , fresh snow on side streets mixed with traction aides like grit and sand , Vallentgoed said . This mix is fiendishly hard to ride through , Vallentgoed said , and cyclists have to be prepared to only have a vague feeling of control as their bikes float atop the cornmeal . Fat tires can smash through this material and very skinny tires can cut through it to a degree to find a firmer base , he said . For cyclists sticking to the main roads , they should be aware of motorists who may have their own issues with traction . The most important thing is to stay visible with flashing lights , even in the daytime , Vallentgoed said . Major roads are the way to go for cyclists who feel comfortable riding in the flow of traffic . Others might stick to side streets or bike paths . With this advice in mind , Vallentgoed said winter cycling is surprisingly easy , and it can be calming and therapeutic once you get the hang of it . " It 's a habit we want people to start doing and continue on doing , " Vallentgoed said . <p> ISTANBUL -- A historic wooden mosque in Istanbul caught on fire Sunday and Turkish firefighters put out the blaze , working from both land and sea . The Vanikoy Mosque , built in the 17th century during the reign of Ottoman Sultan IV Mehmed , is located on the Asian side of Istanbul along the Bosporus Strait . Videos showed heavy smoke pouring from the structure . Istanbul 's Fire Department tweeted the fire had been extinguished and cooling efforts were ongoing . The firefighters prevented the fire from reaching a forest behind the mosque and the neighbouring houses that line the Bosporus . They were aided by the coast guard . The mosque is a wooden structure with a single minaret . The cause of the fire was not yet determined and the city 's governor said an investigation had been launched . The Associated Press <p> Miss something this week ? Do n't panic . CBC 's Marketplace rounds up the consumer and health news you need.Want this in your inbox ? Get the Marketplace newsletter every Friday.We tested over 20 different masks . Here 's what will protect you -- and what will leave you vulnerableBy now , we 're all used to wearing masks while we 're out and about . But as the pandemic wears on , there 's still some uncertainty about what masks work best . Is the one you 're using any good ? Fear not ... Marketplace is on the case . We tested more than two dozen masks and found that thread count is a strong factor to ensuring adequate protection . But valve masks , neck-gaiters and bandanas are among the face coverings not recommended . Read moreIf airlines want a bailout they 'll have to refund customers , Ottawa saysThousands of Canadians have been fighting for refunds for air travel cancelled due to the pandemic , and many of them have n't had much luck . But that could now change . Canada 's Transport Minister Marc Garneau announced earlier this week that " before we spend one penny of taxpayer money on airlines , we will ensure Canadians get their refunds . " If the airlines want a bailout then they 'll likely have to co-operate . Read moreThis visually impaired senior racked up a $13K cellphone bill . He says that does n't make senseWhen Willie Guerard and his wife , Yvonne , purchased a phone at Walmart earlier this year , they said the employee told them there would be a $200 limit on the account and if usage charges went above that , the phone would be cut off . Instead , they were hit with a shocking $13,000 phone bill . " People were just giving me the runaround , " said Guerard , who lives in Amherstburg , Ont. , and is visually impaired . " When they see an old man at 80-years-old , they figure I lost my marbles and was incapable of doing anything . " But Virgin Mobile disputes this claim and says that Guerard consented to reinstate data and was notified when he hit $300 and $500 in overages . Yet after reviewing his account , the company says it will now be substantially reducing his bill . Read moreHere 's how businesses and schools are dealing with airborne COVID-19 and preparing for a winter indoorsIt 's no secret that we 're facing a long winter this year , and new guidance about how COVID-19 spreads has schools and businesses scrambling to make sure their spaces are as safe as possible . That 's because while scientists initially believed the virus spreads primarily through heavy droplets from a sneeze or a cough , which quickly fall to the ground , newer research has shown that airborne transmission also exists . One important factor to curbing the virus ? Good ventilation . Read moreWhat else is going on ? His father was to be checked hourly at his long-term care home . Instead , he died and was n't found for 6 hours Extendicare Halton Hills says it regularly updates procedures " to reflect the advice of ministry inspectors . " Investigation into B.C. therapist uncovers 4th dubious degree Susannah-Joy Schuilenberg was told to turn in professional designations for breaching ethics code . In 2017 , Marketplace investigated diploma mills and found that hundreds of Canadians could have a fake degree . Indie booksellers thriving during pandemic thanks to new ways of connecting with customers In Amazon 's shadow , local bookstores get creative with book-and-wine deliveries , virtual book clubs and more.These Isagenix energy bars may be unsafe due to overfortification of vitamins The products have been sold through internet sales and potentially through independent representatives.The Ring Video Doorbell ( 2nd Gen ) has been recalled due to a fire hazard The video doorbell 's battery can overheat when the incorrect screws are used for installation.These Salsa bicycles have been recalled due to a fall hazard Consumers should immediately stop using the bicycle and contact the place of purchase for an inspection and free replacement fork.This wind-up bath toy has been recalled due to a choking hazard Consumers should immediately stop using the toy and return to any Toys " R " Us Canada store for a full refund.These Philips Hue outdoor power supply units have been recalled due to an electric shock risk Consumers should immediately switch off the power on the recalled product and contact Philips to receive a replacement power supply unit.This week on MarketplaceThere is no doubt about it , since the beginning of the pandemic , the messaging about masks has been mixed . While it 's clear now that almost any mask is better than no mask at all in protecting others , our latest Marketplace investigation has found that some masks are better at protecting you.We put more than two dozen consumer masks through a rigorous test , and it turns out , some consumer products do almost as good a job at filtering out potentially harmful , virus carrying particles as the gold standard when it comes to masks -- the N95.We will demystify the mask for you , breaking down what you need to know when it comes to fit and fabric . We 'll tell you what you need to look for when you 're out shopping for your next mask and which ones to avoid . Plus , the fight for flight refunds continues for COVID-19 related cancellations . How can you get your money back ? And how are the airlines responding ? We 've been following this story for months and we 've got the latest developments . - Charlsie Agro and the Marketplace teamMarketplace needs your helpHave you seen a product claiming to cure COVID that seems too good to be true ? Maybe a miracle cure that has you asking questions ? We want to hear about it . Email us at marketplace@cbc.ca.Do you think you may have problems with mold , dust or just poor indoor air quality ? If you are an active family interested in a free home inspection in Southern Ontario -- and you are ready to be on TV -- we want to hear from you ! Send details about your home including the location , type of home and any air quality concerns to **26;372;TOOLONG up on past episodes of Marketplace any time on CBC Gem . <p> China and 14 other countries agreed Sunday to set up the world 's largest trading bloc , encompassing nearly a third of all economic activity , in a deal many in Asia are hoping will help hasten a recovery from the shocks of the pandemic.The Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership , or RCEP , was signed virtually on Sunday on the sidelines of the annual summit of the 10-nation Association of Southeast Asian Nations . " I am delighted to say that after eight years of hard work , as of today , we have officially brought RCEP negotiations to a conclusion for signing , " said host country Vietnam 's prime minister , Nguyen Xuan Phuc . " The conclusion of RCEP negotiation , the largest free trade agreement in the world , will send a strong message that affirms ASEAN 's leading role in supporting the multilateral trading system , creating a new trading structure in the region , enabling sustainable trade facilitation , revitalizing the supply chains disrupted by COVID-19 and assisting the post-pandemic recovery , " Phuc said.The accord will take already low tariffs on trade between member countries still lower , over time , and is less comprehensive than an 11-nation trans-Pacific trade deal that President Donald Trump pulled out of shortly after taking office.Apart from the 10 ASEAN members , it includes China , Japan , South Korea , Australia and New Zealand , but not the United States . Officials said the accord leaves the door open for India , which dropped out due to fierce domestic opposition to its market-opening requirements , to rejoin the bloc.It will take time to fully assess exact details of the agreement encompassing tariff schedules and rules for all 15 countries involved -- the tariffs schedule just for Japan is 1,334 pages long.It is not expected to go as far as the European Union in integrating member economies but does build on existing free trade arrangements.The deal has powerful symbolic ramifications , showing that nearly four years after Trump launched his " America First " policy of forging trade deals with individual countries , Asia remains committed to multi-nation efforts toward freer trade that are seen as a formula for future prosperity.Ahead of Sunday 's RCEP " special summit " meeting , Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga said he would firmly convey his government 's support for " broadening a free and fair economic zone , including a possibility of India 's future return to the deal , and hope to gain support from the other countries . " The accord is also a coup for China , by far the biggest market in the region with more than 1.3 billion people , allowing Beijing to cast itself as a " champion of globalization and multilateral co-operation " and giving it greater influence over rules governing regional trade , Gareth Leather , senior Asian economist for Capital Economics , said in a report.China 's official Xinhua News Agency quoted Premier Li Keqiang hailing the agreement as a victory against protectionism , in remarks delivered via a video link . " The signing of the RCEP is not only a landmark achievement of East Asian regional co-operation , but also a victory of multilateralism and free trade , " Li said.The agreement is expected to help China , Japan and South Korea finally reach a trilateral free trade deal after years of struggling to bridge their differences.Now that Trump 's opponent Joe Biden has been declared president-elect , the region is watching to see how U.S. policy on trade and other issues will evolve.Analysts are skeptical Biden will push hard to rejoin the trans-Pacific trade pact or to roll back many of the U.S. trade sanctions imposed on China by the Trump administration given widespread frustration with Beijing 's trade and human rights records , and accusations of spying and technology theft.Critics of free trade agreements say they tend to encourage companies to move manufacturing jobs overseas . So , having won over disaffected rust-belt voters in Michigan and western Pennsylvania in the Nov. 3 election , Biden is " not going to squander that by going back into TPP , " Michael Jonathan Green of the Center for Strategic and International Studies said in a web seminar.But given concerns over China 's growing influence , Biden is likely to seek much more engagement with Southeast Asia to protect U.S. interests , he said.The fast-growing and increasingly affluent Southeast Asian market of 650 million people has been hit hard by the pandemic and is urgently seeking fresh drivers for growth.RCEP originally would have included about 3.6 billion people and encompassed about a third of world trade and global GDP . Minus India , it still covers more than 2 billion people and close to a third of all trade and business activity.The United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement , or USMCA , the retooled version of the North American Free Trade Agreement under Trump , covers slightly less economic activity but less than a tenth of the world 's population . The EU and Comprehensive and Progressive Trans-Pacific Partnership , the revised version of the deal Trump rejected , also are smaller . RCEP includes six of the 11 remaining CPTPP members.India balked at exposing its farmers and factories to more foreign competition . Among other concerns , Indian dairy farmers are worried about competition from New Zealand and Australian milk and cheese producers . Automakers fear imports from across the region . But overall the biggest fear is over a flood of manufactured goods from China.Trade and investment flows within Asia have vastly expanded over the past decade , a trend that has accelerated amid feuding between the U.S. and China , which have imposed billions of dollars ' worth of punitive tariffs on each other 's exports.The RCEP agreement is loose enough to stretch to fit the disparate needs of member countries as diverse as Myanmar , Singapore , Vietnam and Australia . Unlike the CPTPP and EU , it does not establish unified standards on labour and the environment or commit countries to open services and other vulnerable areas of their economies.But it does set rules for trade that will facilitate investment and other business within the region , Jeffrey Wilson , research director at the Perth USAsia Center , said in a report for the Asia Society . " RCEP , therefore , is a much-needed platform for the Indo-Pacific 's post-COVID recovery , " he wrote.ASEAN members include Cambodia , Indonesia , Laos , Myanmar , the Philippines , Thailand , Brunei , Singapore , Malaysia and Vietnam . Associated Press writers Hau Dinh in Hanoi , Vietnam , and Mari Yamaguchi in Tokyo contributed to this report.Elaine Kurtenbach , The Associated Press 
@@52205927 <h> Author Archives : <p> VATICAN CITY - Pope Francis has set the record straight about why he pulled his hand away when throngs of people lined up this week to kiss his ring : for fear of spreading germs . Vatican spokesman Ale ... <p> The upstart run for Loyola Chicago making the Final Four last year delivered more than just excitement for fans of Sister Jean and the Ramblers . Loyola 's run will be worth at least $8.45 million to th ... <p> LONDON - British lawmakers were preparing to blow open the Brexit process and put a host of rejected options back on the table - including keeping the U.K. close to the European Union or even remainin ... <p> BEIRA , Mozambique - Cyclone-ravaged Mozambique faces a " second disaster " from cholera and other diseases , the World Health Organization warned on Tuesday , while relief operations pressed into rural ar ... <p> JERUSALEM - The Israeli army on Tuesday bombed several targets in the Gaza Strip and bolstered its forces along the volatile frontier as a truce with the territory 's Hamas rulers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Donald Trump took a victory lap on Capitol Hill Tuesday , emboldened by the end of the special counsel 's Russia probe , even as Democrats pressed insistently for Robe ... <p> WASHINGTON - The Democratic-led House failed Tuesday to override President Donald Trump 's first veto , salvaging his effort to steer billions of extra dollars to erecting border barriers and delivering ... <p> DUBAI , United Arab Emirates - Ride-hailing service Uber announced on Tuesday it has acquired Mideast competitor Careem for $3.1 billion , giving the San Francisco-based firm the commanding edge in a re ... <p> MANCHESTER , England - Manchester United hired Ole Gunnar Solskjaer as its permanent manager on Thursday as a reward for leading the team to 14 wins in 19 games in his impressive interim spell . The for ... <p> DHAKA , Bangladesh - A fire broke out Thursday in an office building in Bangladesh 's capital and some people were feared trapped inside , witnesses and an official said . Fire Department control room off ... 
@@52206119 <h> Author Archives : <p> A Chinese student believed to be the victim of a violent abduction is out of hospital and waiting to be reunited with his family as police hunt for the men suspected of kidnapping him , officers said W ... <p> BEIJING - A huge fan of rock legends Queen , Peng Yanzi rushed to see " Bohemian Rhapsody , " the biopic about the band 's late lead singer , Freddie Mercury , while he was travelling in Britain last October ... <p> JERUSALEM - Egyptian mediators rushed to the Gaza Strip on Wednesday and Hamas ' supreme leader emerged from his hideout as an unofficial cease-fire between Israel and the Islamic militant group appear ... <p> NEW YORK - Anna Sorokin travelled in celebrity circles and tossed $100 tips - all the more reason to believe she was the German heiress she said she was . But behind the jet-set lifestyle and pricey th ... <p> VANCOUVER - Bo Horvat wants to see his Vancouver Canucks string together three solid periods of hockey . The centre was frustrated after his team dropped their third @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ <p> It 's the annual rite of passage in major junior hockey . Players who toiled during the season as overagers ( 20-year-olds ) bid adieu to junior hockey at season 's end and embark on the next chapter of th ... <p> EDMONTON - It took 34 years for the Edmonton Oilers to see two players record hat tricks in the same game again . Ryan Nugent-Hopkins and Leon Draisaitl each had three goals and Draisaitl added an assi ... 
@@52222492 <h> A look back at the biggest dicks of the decade <p> One thing I think everyone can agree on is the fact that this past decade has had more than its fair share of dicks . While almost everyone can agree on the dickishness of certain slimy characters out there , certain others inexplicably have their passionate defenders . <p> To my mind , however , over the past ten years quintessential dickishness has been defined by a select few . <p> So here it is , my list of the Biggest Dicks of the Decade : <p> #10 . The Bankers at Goldman Sachs , Citigroup , etc . First they nearly bring down the world 's financial system through their greed and short-term lust for profit , selling worthless bundled derivatives and their like . Then , after taking a trillion dollar bailout , they go straight back to their old reckless ways and , just to rub it in , start handing out hundreds of billions of dollars in bonuses to employees who would n't even have jobs if it were n't for the taxpayers saving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Capitalism taken to its logical , unregulated extreme . And let 's not forget all the mindless deregulating politicians and , of course , Ayn Rand disciple and Mr. Housing Bubble himself , Alan Greenspan , the once mighty head of the Fed . Dicks ! <p> #9 . Ahmadinejad and the Conservative Mullahs of IranRolling back the democratic and social reforms of his predecessor , fixing elections , labeling the Holocaust a sham , and sending out thugs to beat up , arrest , torture , and even kill peaceful protestors and opposition supporters , President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and his supporters in the conservative theocracy have enough blood on their hands to make it onto anyone 's list . Dicks ! <p> #8 . Robert MugabeThis is a no brainer . For destroying a once prosperous country and for turning the breadbasket of southern Africa into a nation of famine and poverty that can only survive with massive food aid from abroad -- all the while unleashing a reign of terror against his opponents in an attempt to cling to power at all costs -- this guy defines and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buffoon here : A Delusional Dictatorial Demagogue : The Mugabe ( and Mbeki ) Rant . Dick ! <p> #7 . The Israeli GovernmentThe governments of Prime Ministers Ariel Sharon , Ehud Olmert , and Benjamin Netanyahu , for their continued oppression of the Palestinian people ; for the war on the people of Lebanon and the war on the people of Gaza , both featuring mass , disproportionate killings of civilians and horrific destruction . Then there 's the continuing embargo on Gaza , leaving the people there living not just in the world 's largest prison camp but also in a land of hopeless poverty and mounds of rubble . And let 's not forget the Apartheid Wall through the West Bank and the neverending and completely illegal appropriation of Palestinian land to build more and more Israeli settlements throughout the West Bank . <p> It 's always fun to listen to Israel 's kneejerk defenders explain why all of this oppression and land stealing is not just ok , but is actually the Palestinians own fault . But the truth remains that this is one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There are others too , of course , but Israel 's constant refrain that it is the most civilized nation in the Middle East makes it a worthy member of this list on the grounds of flagrant hypocrisy alone . Dicks ! <p> #6 . CanadiansYes , Canadians . It may shock some to see the famously nice , friendly and polite people of Canada making an appearance on a Dicks of the Decade list , but this , I assure you , is a well-earned honor . <p> And we 're not just talking about the country 's leaders here ; no , we 're talking about most of the population . <p> For accepting the idea that we can get richer and richer while harming the rest of the world and the rest of the world can just go screw themselves . <p> For not standing up to our government and demanding that the oil sands be drastically scaled back or , at the very least , slowed down . <p> For believing we somehow deserve the wealth of the oil sands no matter the damage it may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kings mentality . <p> For buying into the idea that cutting back on the oil sands will cost jobs , as if jobs are the only consideration in life . Cutting back on the slave trade cost slavetraders a few jobs too , of course , and banning whaling also cost some jobs , as did doing away with the asbestos industry , and outlawing smoking for those under 18 , and banning landmines , and ... So many things have cost jobs over the years , but simply had to be done for the good of humanity and/or the good of the planet . This is no different . Some things just have to go , or at least be cut back significantly . The oil sands are clearly one of those . <p> Ok , so perhaps Canadians do indeed belong on this list , you say to yourself , but why so high up , above killers and megalomaniacs like Ahmadinejad and Mugabe ? <p> Well , it 's true that Canadians are n't exactly killers , but if the climate change forecasts are correct , Canadians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to pointing blame for catastrophic worldwide destruction and death in coming decades . But few seem to even care . Self-absorbed dicks ! <p> #5 . The Dictators of ChinaIn order to justify their continued repression and dictatorship , the Party argues that economic growth justifies anything and everything . As most of the world continues to suck up to them in the name of better trade relations , China 's self-serving , luxury-life-living Communist overlords are becoming more and more easy to read . As they wholeheartedly embrace cutthroat capitalism and abandon any and all principals , other than Nationalism of course , it becomes clearer by the day that all these thugs really believe in is retaining power at all costs . <p> #4 . Kim Jong Mentally-ilAs the North Korean people continue to suffer horrific poverty and famine , all more or less created by the People 's Glorious Party of Democratic Socialism , Dickhead Kim lives in luxury in his 17 palaces watching foreign films , eating fine imported cuisine and , above all else , fighting for his son to be appointed his heir . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generations of the Kim family dictatorship . Grandpa was Great Leader , Dad is Dear Leader , so perhaps the son , who is now referred to as " The Brilliant Comrade " ( really ! ) , can be called Awesome Leader . Deluded dicks ! <p> #3 . Omar al-Bashir After spending the previous decade slaughtering the people of southern Sudan , Sudanese president Omar al-Bashir ( in power since 1989 ) turned his attention to Darfur . As the world has stood by and watched , al-Bashir has orchestrated a killing campaign and reign of terror which has seen millions displaced , tens of thousands systematically raped , and hundreds of thousands killed . The Janjaweed ( themselvesdDicks of note ) do the actual killing and raping , but the campaign is clearly planned , organized and cheered on by al-Bashir from the capital , Khartoum . Genocidal dick ! <p> #2 . Osama bin LadenIndiscriminate killing in the name of God is hardly new or in any way something that this jackass has improved on , but as far as mass-murdering fundamentalist dicks go , few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ! <p> #1 . Bush and Dick ( George W. and Cheney ) And the Biggest Dicks of the Decade are : George W. Bush and Dick Cheney . Not really a very big surprise , is it ? Who else caused as much chaos , death , and destruction as these two massive dicks during the past decade ? <p> Sure bin Laden and Co. killed nearly 3,000 innocent people on 9/11 , but that 's nothing compared to the mass slaughter and destruction unleashed by Bush and his sidekick Dick in their completely illegal , unnecessary , and unprovoked invasion and occupation of Iraq . Osama looks like an absolute petty amateur in comparison to these mass murderers . <p> And let 's not forget Katrina ; the Patriot Act ; wiretapping Americans ; the Guantanamo Bay gulag ; extraordinary rendition ; the torture of detainees , many of whom were guilty of absolutely nothing ; a skyrocketing national debt ; and the biggest financial meltdown since the Great Depression ; and oh so much more . <p> Whether Bush is indeed the worst president in American history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he and Cheney are the Biggest Dicks of the Decade is really beyond doubt . <p> Of course , Donald Rumsfeld , Paul Wolfowitz , and the rest of the warmongering , neo-con team of hawks all deserve a mention , too , as do all the members of Congress who went along for the ride . <p> Huge dicks , every last one of them ! <p> Honorable Mentions : <p> Joe LiebermanU.S . Senator Joe Lieberman is not quite important enough to make this list , but he is , without question , a dick of magnificent proportions . From backing the Iraq War wholeheartedly , to backing and campaigning for John McCain for President ( even though Lieberman himself was supposedly a Democrat ) , to personally killing the public option in the Senate 's healthcare reform bill , this one-time Democratic vice presidential candidate has time and time again proved himself worthy of at least getting a mention on this list . Incoherent dick ! <p> Religious Fundamentalists of Every StripeFundamentalists have always been a pox on peace-loving societies throughout history , but during this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to dominate world affairs . Whether we 're talking about al-Qaeda , Ahmadinejad , the Taliban in Afghanistan and Pakistan , the almost-complete takeover of the Republican party in America by fundamentalist Christians , or the rise of hardcore religious wackos in both Israel and Gaza , fundamentalists have been wrecking havoc across the globe . Medieval-minded dicks ! <p> Finally , one last thing , do you think that when Cheney 's parents named him Dick they somehow knew he 'd one day ooze the very essence of dickishness and even top a Biggest Dicks of the Decade list or was it just one of those little accidents of history ? <p> Mike Cowie is a freelance writer who writes about politics , music , film , travel , and much more . You can read more of Mike 's views on his Web site . <h> Comments <h> 35 Comments <h> Alain H <p> Jan 6 , 2010 at 2:24pm <p> This is probably the best article i 've read in a month and i read like thirty articles a day so you know it means something . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all , the dick that 's responsible for including canadians on that list by which of course i mean Harper the spineless israeli buttboy for among a plethora Other things singlehandedly blocking a resolution agreed upon by all memebers of the francophonie and acting like an israeli spokesman during the israel war on lebanon , for being the first to boycott an anti-racism conference , for emailing jews telling them how much he 's willing to sacrifice Canada 's reputation for israel But above all for being Proud of everything he 's done , Now that is one Huge dick of very small proportions . <p> You should turn this into a video and post it upload it on youtube =D. <h> miguel <p> Jan 6 , 2010 at 2:33pm <p> I agree for the most part , except for #6 " Canadians " , because there is nothing wrong with the planet and it will be here and healthy whether we are or not . Saving the planet is preposterous , and deep down people are only worried about themselves.Miguel <h> justin <h> Jeff Montgomery <p> Jan 6 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advocate of Ayn Rand 's Objectivism , and capitalism was not the cause of the financial crisis . <p> The Fed is essentially a central government bank , the government controls the currency , and the financial industry is one of the most heavily-regulated in America . We have never had a free banking system . <h> db <h> RickW <p> Jan 7 , 2010 at 8:11am <p> Jeff Montgomery - There has never been a truly capitalist society . It is as much " pie-in-the-sky " daydreaming as is communism , and like the latter is anathema to the natural inclinations of human society.RickW <h> Evil Eye <h> DR - Montreal <p> Jan 7 , 2010 at 11:18am <p> All good ; however you really should have a Special Mention Dick-Wannabee Category and this of course goes to Tony Blair who is in a class of his own . Lacking the forthright certitude of the **40;356;TOOLONG Bush and Cheney , pure distilled evil oozing from their pores , this pathetic second banana leg-humped them hoping some of it would rub off . The quisling Blair was such a limp @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on " in front of the mirror . In short , the casuistry of this smarmy fucktard amounted to penis-envy . The true Dick will to power manifests the inner dick-in-itself without pause or introspection . Blair followed his dick idols into Iraq hoping he could also be seen as a Dick with cojones . Sorry Tony , you 're a feeble wannabe who probably sits down when he pees . Only real Dicks make the list . <h> Sandor Hunyadi <p> Jan 7 , 2010 at 12:44pm <p> I think the biggest dick would have to be the mainstream media . At the end of the decade Candians are left with a neutered CBC , a bankrupt CanWest , and the bland CTVglobemedia . In the United States the situation is even worse . Fox News and right wing talk radio dominante the airwaves with lies and rabid ad hominum attacks . The other networks spend more time focusing on political horse races and celebrity utterances than they do on actual journalism . North American society should be ashamed 
@@52222827 <h> Bihar : Shah , Nadda to attend oath-taking ceremony of Nitish Kumar <p> New Delhi India , November 16 ( ANI ) : Union Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP President Jagat Prakash Nadda will attend the oath-taking ceremony of JD(U) chief and Bihar Chief Minister-designate Nitish Kumar in Patna on Monday , party 's top source confirmed . <p> Kumar will take oath as the Chief Minister of Bihar for the fourth straight term this afternoon after closely-fought legislative assembly elections in the state . <p> Kumar , after meeting Governor Phagu Chauhan to stake claim to form NDA government in Bihar , had on Sunday announced that the oath-taking , as well as the swearing-in ceremony of the new cabinet , will be held at around 4.30 pm on Monday . <p> The leaders of the NDA legislature party , which had secured a victory in the recently-concluded election in Bihar , had on Sunday met to deliberate on selecting a leader to lead the party . It had named Kumar as the leader of the NDA legislature party thus paving the way for his return as chief minister for the fourth consecutive term . <p> BJP 's Tarkishore Prasad , the MLA from Bihar 's Katihar , will replace Sushil Modi as his deputy . <p> The BJP had , from the beginning of the election campaign , had maintained that Kumar will be the Chief Ministerial candidate for the NDA government in the state . <p> Notably , this is the seventh time when Nitish Kumar will take an oath to become the Chief Minister of Bihar . He had served as the Chief Minister of the state for little over seven days in March 2000 , after which he was elected in 2005 when he served a full term . <p> He was re-elected to power in November 2010 , after which he served for four years before resigning , and had again taken oath as Chief Minister in February 2015 . He was voted to power in 2015 Assembly election as part of the ' Mahagathbandhan ' . <p> However , after corruption allegations were levelled against his deputy Tejashwi Yadav in 2015 , Nitish resigned only to be sworn in as Chief Minister merely 12 hours later joining hands with the BJP to form a government in the state . <p> The NDA has secured a 125-seat majority in the 243-seat strong Bihar Legislative Assembly of which BJP won on 74 seats , JD(U) on 43 while eight seats were won by two other NDA constituents . The RJD , on the other hand , emerged as the single-largest party with 75 seats while the Congress only won 19 of the 70 seats it had contested on . ( ANI ) <h> Latest Stories <p> After 27 years , the circumstances surrounding the death of Vicki Black on Vancouver 's Downtown Eastside has finally been solved . Stephen Laroche pleaded guilty to manslaughter earlier this week and was sentenced to 10 years minus 14 months for time served.And while it may bring legal closure , for some of those who were closest to the 23-year-old and her case , the painful memories linger.Black 's body was found wrapped in a sheet in a dumpster in an East Vancouver alley in March of 1993 . Her girlfriend at the time , Charlotte Johnson , remembers the morning she found out as if it were yesterday . " I was n't the same person after that , " said Johnson , who attended Laroche 's sentencing by teleconference.Johnson and Black had been living together with two other people , including Tracy Olajide -- whose own murder in 1995 remains unsolved.The three women lived together for two years and would move around to different homes , always as a pack , so they could see each other 's " dates . " Black , Johnson and Olajide all worked in the sex trade . " I think it was for a safety reason , " said Johnson.Johnson vividly remembers how Black 's date came to pick her up the night she died . From the way the date spoke to her , Johnson knew something was wrong " I closed the door and I did n't feel easy about it . Something was n't right for me , " she said.In court , the agreed statement of facts confirmed that Laroche admitted to taking Black back to his apartment on the night of her death where they had sex , did drugs and he eventually strangled her in dispute over payment . " That 's where the guilt and shame come in ... Because I left her with him . And it 's something I 'll never get over , " said Johnson , through sobs , her voice carrying more than a quarter-century of pain . " I 'll never get over leaving her with him . Especially since I had that bad feeling . " While much of the public 's memory of Black has been reduced to her murder , Johnson 's memory is much more vivid , filled with stories of how they loved to go to the PNE , where Black wanted to ride all the thrill rides or how Black loved to eat , especially Jamaican food . " This girl could eat hot sauce like it ai n't nobody 's business . She 's like the first white girl I ever met that was like that , " said Johnson.But Black was also complex ; she was a hard-headed and stubborn woman . Traits required to survive the hood , Johnson said . Black loved to shop , draw and write.It 's these memories clashing against the backdrop of her gruesome murder that make it difficult for Johnson to accept Laroche 's conviction.A conviction 27 years in the makingAfter Laroche fled Vancouver , he eventually ended up in Manitoba where he killed another woman who also worked in the sex trade . He was tried and sentenced to life imprisonment but later earned full parole.In court last week , Laroche 's case was tried as if it were his first offence because it happened in 1993 , three years before he killed the second woman . He was originally charged with second-degree murder for Black 's death , but pleaded guilty in court to the lesser charge of manslaughter . " I wanted him to get so much more time . Ten years is too good for him , " said Johnson " I feel like basically , it 's OK to kill a working girl . You only get ten years for it . It 's not enough . It does n't show society that they do n't tolerate it . " A semblance of closureCharlotte Johnson is n't the only one who feels the sentence was n't harsh enough . Dave Dickson , a former Downtown Eastside beat cop , has also waited nearly three decades for justice for Vicki Black . " Certainly , I wish it was harsher , " he said , but he understands how the process works , admitting it 's difficult to prove intent in a murder case.He 's just happy there is some semblance of closure for Black 's family . " And I hope that the family got something good out of it . I know there 's nothing that could ever bring her back , " said Dickson.For 28 years , Dickson worked on the Downtown Eastside . He knew all the women who worked along there , including Black . " She was a sweet kid , " he remembers.He says he would run into her and her friends about once a week , if not daily.And while he admits he ca n't remember what he ate for breakfast the day before , his memory of Black and his work on the Downtown Eastside are crystal clear.After Black 's murder , he remembers carrying the sheet she was found in around the city , trying to find where it came from.Her murder and the unsolved murders of many other women from the Downtown Eastside still weigh heavy on him . " It 's really hard to describe . I still have real tough days with it . It certainly never goes away , " said Dickson . " There 's not a day that goes by that I do n't think about Mona Wilson murdered by serial killer Robert Pickton or a ton of the other girls that just are n't around anymore because the system sort of failed them . " <p> Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan said on Sunday that his country , an official candidate for European Union membership , sees itself as an inseparable part of Europe but will not give in to attacks and double standards . " We see ourselves as an inseparable part of Europe ... However this does not mean that we will bow down to overt attacks to our country and nation , veiled injustices and double standards , " Erdogan said in a speech to the members of its AK Party . Turkey 's drilling activities in a disputed part of the eastern Mediterranean have raised tensions with the EU as Turkey locked in a dispute with and Greece and Cyprus over the extent of their continental shelves and hydrocarbon resources . <p> The group representing women 's shelters across Nova Scotia is calling the jailing , restraint , and assault charge against a domestic violence complainant by Halifax Regional Police " absolutely appalling and a violation of human rights . " It says it has only served to entrench fear of police and add additional burden on victims of violence.Those comments on Friday come after Paul Carver , the chief prosecutor for Halifax , ordered an assault charge against Serrece Winter , 45 , abandoned because it was not in the public interest , though he believed there was a reasonable prospect of conviction . The case was dropped amid a chorus of denunciations of Crown and police actions , and an outpouring of sympathy for Winter.Crown attorney Scott Morrison asked for an arrest warrant in November 2019 after Winter failed to testify against a 61-year-old man she feared . It was issued by Judge Alanna Murphy.Shortly after , Winter was taken to the police lockup where she expressed her frustration and fear of jail to officers before repeatedly harming herself in the lockup.She was yelled at , grabbed from the cell , strapped into a restraint chair , and charged with assaulting a booking officer . Critics decried what they saw as a lack of compassion and traumatic use of force against Winter , who is part Black , part Indigenous , has mental health conditions , and a history of being abused by partners.The story came to light after surveillance video of her treatment in the lockup was given to her lawyer as disclosure on the assault charge . Winter shared it with CBC . ' Thorough review ' so justice and recovery is easierThe issue is so sensitive that the Public Prosecution Service has a manual on domestic violence which states it is " in the public interest " to respond " swiftly and effectively to reports of spousal/partner violence . " The policy is pro-arrest , pro-charge and pro-prosecution against the offender.When a complainant is reluctant or fails to testify , the manual lists adjourning the case as the first option . If an arrest warrant is requested , it " is not intended to punish the complainant/victim . " Premier Stephen McNeil , Kelly Regan , the minister for the advisory council on the status of women , and Mark Furey , the justice minister , said they were troubled that Winter 's ordeal emerged despite the government 's commitment to supporting victims of domestic violence.In an emailed statement , a " thorough review " involving police , Crowns and court services has been ordered to " make the road to justice and recovery easier for victims and survivors , " said Furey.Halifax Regional Police and the Public Prosecution Service have declined interview requests.Women who are in abusive situations have absorbed a horrific message , said Shiva Nourpanah , provincial co-ordinator of the Transition House Association of Nova Scotia.She 's concerned that a woman 's fear that leaving an abusive partner is a worse consequence than staying with him has been validated . " ' Oh my God , what will happen if I call the police ? What will happen if I 'm called to testify ? ' You know , maybe it 's just easier to live with the abuse and deal with it , " said Nourpanah . ' It really does turn victims into criminals'Women 's Centres Connect , an organization that represents women 's centres across rural Nova Scotia , is calling for an immediate ban on arrest warrants and jail cells used against domestic violence complainants . " It really does turn victims into criminals , " said Wyanne Sandler , executive director of the Antigonish Women 's Centre , in an interview on Information Morning.Sandler has heard from her front-line workers that this is not the first time a bench warrant has been used against a victim who 's afraid of testifying . Pam Rubin , one of the centre 's therapists , said she corresponded with the Public Prosecution Service on this issue early last year.Verona Singer , an adjunct professor in criminology at Saint Mary 's University , said there are alternatives to pressuring a woman to face the offender in court.Video statements by police of victims are rarely used , she said , but should be utilized by prosecutors when a complainant does not show up in court.Singer ran the high-risk domestic violence program at Halifax Regional Police that monitors victims who are at risk of murder or serious injury . Winter is part of the program that failed to use a trauma-informed approach when she did n't testify , Singer said . " The fact that she was high risk means that she has been in domestic violence that is incredibly traumatic and incredibly violent . " The arrest and jailing of Winter served to " betray her trust " in the system aimed at protecting her , said Singer.MORE TOP STORIES <p> LANSING , Mich. -- President Donald Trump did not ask Michigan Republican lawmakers to " break the law " or " interfere " with the election during a meeting at the White House , a legislative leader said Sunday , a day before canvassers plan to meet about whether to certify Joe Biden 's 154,000-vote victory in the battleground state.House Speaker Lee Chatfield was among seven GOP legislators who met with Trump for about an hour on Friday , amid his longshot efforts to block Biden 's win . " There was this outrage that the president was going to ask us to break the law , he was going to ask us to interfere , and that just simply did n't happen , " he told Fox News of the highly unusual meeting . He did not elaborate on what was discussed , except to say the delegation asked for additional federal aid to help Michigan 's coronavirus response.Michigan 's elections agency has recommended that the Nov. 3 results -- including Biden 's 2.8-percentage point victory -- be certified by the Board of State Canvassers , which has two Democrats and two Republicans . The Republican National Committee and the state Republican Party want the board to adjourn for 14 days to investigate alleged irregularities in Wayne County , the state 's largest and home to Detroit.Staff for the state elections bureau said that claimed irregularities , even if verified , would not significantly affect the outcome . The Michigan Democratic Party said the total number of Detroit votes implicated by imbalanced precincts -- where the number of ballots does not equal the number of names on the pollbook -- is at most 450 , or " 0.029% of the margin " separating Biden from Trump . " The certification process must not be manipulated to serve as some sort of retroactive referendum on the expressed will of the voters . That is simply not how democracy works , " chairwoman Lavora Barnes wrote to the board on Sunday.If the board does not confirm the results and the Michigan Supreme Court does not subsequently order it to do so , Chatfield said " now we have a constitutional crisis . " He and other Republicans , however , have indicated that they would not undermine the voters ' will . " Michigan election law clearly requires that the state 's electors must be those nominated by the party that received the most votes -- not the Legislature , " says a stock email House Republicans are sending in response to people who contact their offices.Experts on Michigan election law have said the state board 's authority is limited in scope and that it must certify the results now that all 83 counties have reported theirs to the state . There is concern , though , because Trump personally called the two Republicans on Wayne County 's board last week and they said a day later that they were rescinding their previous vote -- following an earlier deadlock -- but it was too late.Senate Majority Leader Mike Shirkey , a Republican who met with Trump , suggested in a Sunday tweet that the state canvassers might " take the full time allowed by law to perform their duties " instead of voting Monday and said " it 's inappropriate for anyone to exert pressure on them . " The deadline is Dec. 13 , but that is five days after the federal " safe harbour " date -- when Congress can not challenge any electors named by that date in accordance with state law.There is no evidence of widespread fraud in the 2020 election . In fact , election officials from both political parties have stated publicly that the election went well and international observers confirmed that there were no serious irregularities.The issues Trump 's campaign and its allies have pointed to are typical in every election.Republican U.S. Rep. Fred Upton , Michigan 's current longest-serving member of Congress , told CNN on Sunday that " the voters spoke " and the state had no razor-thin presidential race . " No one has come up with any evidence of fraud or abuse , " he said . He called the request to delay the certification " out of bounds . " The trip to the White House has come under heavy scrutiny . The lawmakers stayed at the luxury Trump International Hotel , and two of them were photographed with expensive drinks at the hotel bar after the meeting.Spokespeople for Shirkey and Chatfield said the legislators covered their expenses and that no taxpayer money was used . However , they did not say if the men paid for the trip themselves or if it was paid for in some other way such as by them tapping into their non-profit " administrative " accounts that can accept contributions from corporate or other donors.Finding out about who runs such lawmaker-connected organizations , who donates to them and what the money is spent on can be extremely difficult , according to a 2016 joint investigation by MLive and the Michigan Campaign Finance Network . Such accounts can be used to reimburse legislators for travel . Follow David Eggert : https : **32;252;TOOLONG Eggert , The Associated Press <p> Recent developments : * Public health officials in Ottawa reported another 33 cases of COVID-19 Sunday . * The Eastern Ontario Health Unit and Kingston will be in the yellow " protect " zone , starting Monday.What 's the latest ? Ottawa Public Health ( OPH ) confirmed 33 new cases on Sunday , along with a dip in active cases.Across the river in western Quebec , health officials recorded 47 new cases and one death . The region 's death toll stands at 71 . Today is the last day that people in the Kingston , Ont. , area will be living under green zone rules , as the region will be upgraded to the yellow " protect " zone on the province 's scale as of Monday.The Eastern Ontario Health Unit ( EOHU ) is also moving to yellow tomorrow , although that will represent a loosening of the rules as the region was placed in the orange " restrict " zone last week.How many cases are there ? As of Sunday , 8,172 people had tested positive for COVID-19 in Ottawa . There are 365 known active cases , 7,441 cases now considered resolved and 366 people who have died of COVID-19.Public health officials have reported more than 13,100 COVID-19 cases across eastern Ontario and western Quebec , including more than 11,700 resolved cases.Eighty-eight people have died of COVID-19 elsewhere in eastern Ontario , along with 71 in western Quebec . CBC Ottawa is profiling those who 've died of COVID-19 . If you 'd like to share your loved one 's story , please get in touch.What can I do ? Both Ontario and Quebec are telling people to limit close contact only to those they live with , or one other home if people live alone , to slow the spread of the coronavirus.Travel from one region to another discouraged throughout the Outaouais . Ontario says people should n't travel to a lower-level region from a higher one.Ottawa and the EOHU are currently in the orange zone of the provincial pandemic scale , which allows organized gatherings and restaurants , gyms and theatres to bring people inside.The EOHU will be moved to the yellow zone on Monday.Ottawa 's medical officer of health Dr. Vera Etches has said Ottawa 's situation is stable and people should focus on managing risks and taking precautions , such as seeing a few friends outside at a distance , to bring the spread down further.Communities in the Kingston , Frontenac and Lennox and Addington Public Health Unit will also be moved to yellow as of Monday . The health unit had previously been green , the lowest level.Dr . Kieran Moore , the local medical officer of health , has been asking residents to not see anyone they do n't live with in person , even at a distance . The health unit also wants restaurant workers to get tested.The rest of eastern Ontario remains in the province 's green zone.In Gatineau and the surrounding area , which is one of Quebec 's red zones , health officials are asking residents not to leave home unless it 's essential.Indoor dining at restaurants remains prohibited and gyms , cinemas and performing arts venues are all closed.The rest of western Quebec is orange , which allows private gatherings of up to six people and organized ones up to 25 -- with more in seated venues.This week Quebec announced what it will take to have a small holiday gathering next month and said rules wo n't be loosened until mid-January at the earliest.What about schools ? There have been about 200 schools in the wider Ottawa-Gatineau region with a confirmed case of COVID-19:Few have had outbreaks , which are declared by a health unit in Ontario when there 's a reasonable chance someone who has tested positive caught COVID-19 during a school activity.Distancing and isolatingThe novel coronavirus primarily spreads through droplets when an infected person coughs , sneezes , breathes or speaks onto someone or something . These droplets can hang in the air.People can be contagious without symptoms.This means people should take precautions such as staying home when sick , keeping hands and frequently touched surfaces clean , socializing outdoors as much as possible and maintaining distance from anyone they do n't live with -- even with a mask on.Ontario has abandoned its concept of social circles.Masks are mandatory in indoor public settings in Ontario and Quebec and should be worn outdoors when people ca n't distance from others . Three-layer non-medical masks with a filter are recommended.Anyone with COVID-19 symptoms should self-isolate , as should those who 've been ordered to do so by their local public health unit . The duration depends on the circumstances in both Ontario and Quebec.Health Canada recommends older adults and people with underlying medical conditions and/or weakened immune systems stay home as much as possible . Anyone who has travelled recently outside Canada must go straight home and stay there for 14 days.What are the symptoms of COVID-19 ? COVID-19 can range from a cold-like illness to a severe lung infection , with common symptoms including fever , a cough , vomiting and the loss of taste or smell . Less common symptoms include chills , headaches and pink eye . Children can develop a rash.If you have severe symptoms , call 911 . Mental health can also be affected by the pandemic and resources are available to help.Where to get testedIn eastern Ontario:Ontario recommends only getting tested if you have symptoms , or if you 've been told to by your health unit or the province.Anyone seeking a test should now book an appointment . Different sites in the area have different ways to book , including over the phone or going in person to get a time slot.People without symptoms , but who are part of the province 's targeted testing strategy , can make an appointment at select pharmacies.WATCH : Family members face tough choices as COVID-19 spreads at care homeOttawa has eight permanent test sites , with additional mobile sites deployed wherever demand is particularly high . A test site should open at the McNabb Community Centre on Tuesday.Kingston 's test site is at the Beechgrove Complex . The area 's other test site is in Napanee.The Eastern Ontario Health Unit has sites in Alexandria , Cornwall , Hawkesbury , Limoges , Rockland and Winchester.The Leeds , Grenville and Lanark health unit has permanent sites in Almonte , Brockville , Kemptville and Smiths Falls and a mobile test site visiting smaller communities.People can arrange a test in Bancroft and Picton by calling the centre or Belleville and Trenton online.Renfrew County residents should call their family doctor or 1-844-727-6404 for a test or with questions , COVID-19-related or not . Test clinic locations are posted weekly.In western Quebec:Tests are strongly recommended for people with symptoms or who have been in contact with someone with symptoms.Outaouais residents can make an appointment in Gatineau seven days a week at 135 blvd . Saint-Raymond or 617 avenue Buckingham.They can now check the approximate wait time for the Saint-Raymond site.There are recurring clinics by appointment in communities such as Gracefield , Val-des-Monts and Fort-Coulonge.Call 1-877-644-4545 with questions , including if walk-in testing is available nearby.First Nations , Inuit and M ? tis:Akwesasne has had its most known COVID-19 cases of the pandemic this month , with eight known active cases on the Canadian side of the international border . Its council is asking residents to avoid unnecessary travel.Akwesasne schools are temporarily closed to in-person learning and its Tsi Snaihne Child Care Centre has also closed . It has a COVID-19 test site available by appointment only.Anyone returning to the community on the Canadian side of the international border who 's been farther than 160 kilometres away -- or visited Montreal -- for non-essential reasons is asked to self-isolate for 14 days.The Mohawks of the Bay of Quinte reported its first confirmed case this month.People in Pikwakanagan can book a COVID-19 test by calling 613-625-2259 . Anyone in Tyendinaga who 's interested in a test can call 613-967-3603 . Inuit in Ottawa can call the Akausivik Inuit Family Health Team at 613-740-0999 for service , including testing , in Inuktitut or English on weekdays.For more information <p> On this date in 1963 , President John F. Kennedy is assassinated and Texas Gov . John Connally is seriously wounded during a motorcade in Dallas . Suspect Lee Harvey Oswald is arrested . Lyndon B. Johnson becomes America 's 36th president . ( Nov. 22 ) <p> Thousands of people took to Taipei 's streets on Sunday for the annual " Autumn Struggle " protest march organised by labour groups , with much of the anger focused on the government 's decision to ease restrictions on imports of U.S. pork . Taiwan 's main opposition party , the Kuomintang ( KMT ) , rallied its supporters to join the march for the first time , having mounted an increasingly strident campaign against the pork decision , which it says threatens food safety . President Tsai Ing-wen announced in August that the government would , from Jan. 1 , allow imports of U.S. pork containing ractopamine , an additive that enhances leanness but is banned in the European Union and China , as well as U.S. beef more than 30 months old . <p> Ontario reported 1,534 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday , along with 14 new deaths.The new daily case count comes one day before Toronto and Peel region are set to move into lockdown on Monday at 12:01 a.m. for at least 28 days . In the Greater Toronto Area , there are 490 new cases in Peel Region , 460 in Toronto and 130 in York Region.Health Minister Christine Elliott said 1,429 more cases are marked as resolved and nearly 46,400 tests have been completed.A record-breaking 1,588 cases were reported on Saturday.Currently there are 484 people in hospital and 147 people in intensive care units ( ICU ) . Of those in the ICU , 89 are on a ventilator . According to the province , other public health units that reported double-digit case increases include : * Hamilton : 66. * Durham Region : 50. * Waterloo : 54. * Halton Region : 48. * Ottawa : 32. * **26;286;TOOLONG : 30. * Windsor : 29. * Simcoe Muskoka : 24. * Niagara : 22. * Grey-Bruce : 16. * Brant : 12. * Thunder Bay : 11. * Haldimand-Norfolk : 10 . Elsewhere in the province , Durham and Waterloo regions are moving into the red-control zones on Monday , while Huron-Perth , Simcoe-Muskoka , southwestern Ontario and Windsor are moving to the orange-restrict zone on Monday.Premier urges shoppers not to panic buy Officials are urging residents to avoid panic buying . The warning comes after shoppers gathered Saturday in malls in Toronto and Peel region ahead of Monday 's lockdown that will see shopping centres shuttered . " We know this is a difficult time , but we need everyone to be patient and ensure there is n't unneeded pressure on our supply chains . Please do n't stockpile or panic buy , " said Premier Doug Ford in a statement to CBC News , when asked about increased crowds this weekend.Several malls in the Greater Toronto Area announced extended hours for Saturday and Sunday ahead of Monday 's lockdown.WATCH What you need to know about lockdown restrictions Malls will be limited to curbside pickup or delivery only starting on Monday as part of new restrictions.Yorkdale Shopping Centre and Scarborough Town Centre will now be open until 9 p.m. on Sunday . Square One Shopping Centre in Mississauga will be open until 9 p.m. this weekend as well . Increased crowds gathered at malls on Saturday and parking lots were packed with cars . When asked about concerns about an influx of shoppers and whether malls are doing enough to control crowds , Cadillac Fairview told CBC News that the health of employees , clients and guests are its " first priority . " " While this is disappointing news for our community , with everything we know right now , we believe this is the best course of action amid the current COVID-19 environment , " Cadillac Fairview said about the lockdown . " We will continue to monitor the situation closely , and work with provincial and public health authorities as required . " Dr. Isaac Bogoch , an infectious disease specialist and researcher based at Toronto General Hospital , said seeing more people visit malls this weekend is to be expected ahead of a lockdown . " It 's really important people have what they need , because we 're not supposed to be leaving our houses much and we 're only going to be going out for essential goods and essential services . We 've got to prepare for this , " he said.The regions that are going into lockdown contain thousands of people who had 48 hours to get their affairs in order , he said.Brampton needs ' real help ' for essential workers : mayorIn an interview on Sunday with the CBC 's Rosemary Barton , Brampton Mayor Patrick Brown said discussions from other levels of government about shutting down restaurants and retailers ignore what residents really need to combat COVID-19 . " I 'm exhausted about having debates about that , when the real help we need is an isolation centre for our essential workers , sick benefits for people who are frankly going to work with symptoms because they ca n't afford to miss a paycheque , " he said . Brampton neighbourhoods that are seeing a high number of COVID-19 infections also house a higher proportion of factory workers and essential workers . There have been 116 workplace outbreaks in industrial settings in the city , Brown said.Dr . Amanpreet Brar , a general surgery resident physician , told CBC News that she is concerned about her mother who works in a Brampton factory . The lack of paid sick leave , especially for temporary workers in industrial settings , creates ripe conditions for the virus to spread , she said . In response to Brar 's concerns , Brown said Brampton desperately needs an isolation centre for essential workers who do not have space at home to isolate properly . " I needed that yesterday , I needed that three months ago , " he said . He said he has spoken to provincial and federal levels of government about the importance of sick leave , saying people are forced to go into work because they ca n't miss a paycheque , even if they are sick.Currently , new legislation on national paid sick leave , Bill C-4 , is in the senate and has not been passed yet.Industrial sectors are not shutting down and governments have not dealt with the challenges for workers that are coming out of that industry , he said . " There 's some scapegoat of some of these essential workers and people living in Brampton , " he said . " You need to thank one of these essential workers . They 're going to work , they 're taking on a higher risk and we need to have their back . The very least we can do is sick benefits and an isolation centre . " Brown said , while the province has given 70 more public health workers and two more testing centres , other levels of government need to work more quickly to address Brampton 's concerns . Lockdown measures for Toronto and Peel include : * No indoor gatherings with anyone outside a person 's household . * Individuals who live alone can have close contact with one other household . * Outdoor gatherings are limited to 10 people . * Restaurants are limited to takeout , drive-thru and delivery only . * Religious services , funerals and weddings are limited to 10 people indoors or 10 people outdoors . * Gyms are closed . * Non-essential retail and malls are limited to curbside pickup or delivery only . * Personal-care services , casinos and bingo halls are closed . * Post-secondary institutions move to virtual instruction , with some exceptions , such as clinical training . * Pharmacies , doctor and dentist offices , grocery stores , essential services remain open . * Schools will also remain open . <p> The price of bitcoin is up 225 per cent since the recent March lows and is getting close to overtaking the 2017 all-time high.At these prices , many are wondering if the current trend is just getting started or if it 's a bubble that is about to burst ? To help answer this question let 's review what happened in 2017 . In 2017 , the price of bitcoin went from $1,000 US in January to almost $20,000 US by December . It seemed that everyone wanted a piece of this transformative technology , or at least they wanted to profit from it . Greed flooded the market on the back of forecasts predicting $50,000 , $100,000 and even $1 million bitcoin valuations.When the forecasts failed to materialize , greed was replaced with doubt and fear , the bubble burst and bitcoin dropped to $3,300 US in just a couple of months.Compared to 2017 , when most holders of bitcoin were either speculators or drug dealers , cryptocurrencies are now more " mainstream " with several large fund managers , companies and governments preparing to launch their own or use existing coins.Companies such as Fidelity Investments , J.P Morgan and many others are investing heavily in the crypto space . For many crypto bulls , the real game-changer is PayPal 's announcement that their clients will soon be able to transact in bitcoin . It 's a pivotal step on the way to widespread public crypto adoption which , if it happens , would make the value of bitcoin soar.Bitcoin is also acting as digital gold . In theory , the more that the central banks print money , which they are doing in the trillions , the more valuable bitcoin should become . With bitcoin prices surging higher , it feels like d ? j ? vu . A lot of people are buying , not because they believe in blockchain technology or crypto , but because they want to get rich quick . For investors who are considering entering this crypto market at these prices , it 's important to learn from the past and understand that extreme greed and emotional buying increases volatility and leads to booms and busts . Currently , bitcoin has momentum on its side , but the true test is whether it can exceed the previous all-time high of $20,000 US . If it does , and does so with authority , that 's a sign that bitcoin will keep increasing , however , if the momentum fades at the $20,000 US ceiling , it 's a warning that the trend could reverse . While bitcoin is back in the spotlight , it is far from the frenzy that we experienced in late 2017 . At that time many of my neighbours , my daughter 's hockey teammates ' parents , and so many others were talking about bitcoin -- which is a strong indicator that we were nearing the peak . My feeling now is that it is going higher , potentially much higher over time if it breaches the $20,000 US mark , but it wo n't go up in a continuous straight line . There will be plenty of boom and bust periods along the way . Try not to give in to FOMO ( fear of missing out ) but , if you are interested in crypto and understand the risks , gradually enter the market over the next year as opposed to going " all in " today.I own some bitcoin and invest in blockchain and crypto infrastructure but , due to the risk and volatility , it is n't a huge part of my overall portfolio , although the weighting has increased over the past year.As I already have some crypto , I 'm not planning on buying any more at these prices -- nor am I planning on selling . If you are considering entering the crypto market a good starting point is to read my article " The epic rise and fall of crypto currency . " It was written last year when the price of bitcoin out of the spotlight was selling for $8,000 US.This column is part of CBC 's Opinion section . For more information about this section , please read our FAQ . <p> WASHINGTON -- It 's not just President-elect Joe Biden 's transition that 's under a microscope.President Donald Trump and his allies are harking back to his own transition four years ago to make a false argument that his own presidency was denied a fair chance for a clean launch . Press secretary Kayleigh McEnany laid out the case from the White House podium last week and the same idea has been floated by Trump 's personal lawyer and his former director of national intelligence.The comparisons are part of a broader attempt by Trump and his team to undermine the legitimacy of Biden 's election and his right to an orderly transition by unspooling mistruths about both this election season and Trump 's treatment four years ago . " It 's worth remembering that this president was never given an orderly transition of power . His presidency was never accepted , " McEnany told reporters who questioned the Trump administration 's refusal to co-operate with the Biden transition.But the situations are far different.The day after her defeat in 2016 , Democrat Hillary Clinton conceded . " Donald Trump is going to be our president , " she said . " We owe him an open mind and the chance to lead . " The next day , President Barack Obama , who had portrayed Trump as an existential threat to the nation , invited the president-elect to the White House and visited with him in the Oval Office . Obama 's aides offered help to Trump 's incoming staffers . " My number one priority in the coming two months is to try to facilitate a transition that ensures our president-elect is successful , " Obama said.During his inaugural address , Trump thanked Obama and his wife , Michelle , " for their gracious aid throughout this transition " and called them " magnificent . " Trump 's team is not wrong that his own transition was chaotic , but the disarray in many ways was of his own doing.Trump fired the head of his transition , former New Jersey Gov . Chris Christie , and abandoned months of planning in favour of a Cabinet hiring process that at times resembled a reality show . His team ignored offers of help from the outgoing Obama administration.That 's a far cry from the description issued by McEnany as pressure mounts for Trump to concede and for his administration to begin co-operating with Biden 's transition team . Among other things , Biden is being denied access to the presidential daily intelligence briefing and to detailed briefings on the vaccine distribution plan as COVID-19 deaths in the U.S. eclipse 255,000 . Trump has refused to concede , instead making baseless claims of electoral fraud and trying longshot legal challenges that risk undermining the nation 's democratic traditions.In 2016 , despite his claims , Trump did receive standard co-operation during the transition.But Trump 's team largely ignored advice from Obama staffers , leaving briefing books unopened and ignoring special iPads loaded with materials . The lack of preparation left aides clueless even about how to work the overhead intercom in the West Wing.A potential transition plan worked on for months by Christie was cast aside . He was dismissed from his post as part of a long-running feud with the president 's son-in-law and future senior White House adviser Jared Kushner.Some of Trump 's hires were done on whim , as Cabinet candidates visited him in Trump Tower . The president-elect chose Michael Flynn for national security adviser after a recommendation from Trump 's children and despite Obama 's warnings . Flynn was out after less than a month in office.Christie , in his recent autobiography , wrote that 30 binders were discarded and that members of Trump 's team " got rid of guidance that would have made their candidate an immensely more effective president " and " stole from the man they 'd just helped elect the launch he so richly deserved . " McEnany and others have claimed that Trump was undermined by an FBI investigation that was opened in the summer of 2016 into possible election interference , a probe that was taken over by special counsel Robert Mueller the following May after Trump fired FBI Director James Comey.Trump lawyer Rudy Giuliani , in a news conference last week , claimed the FBI " made up the Russia collusion plot " that damaged Trump and " cost our country $40 million . " Ric Grenell , Trump 's former ambassador to Germany and acting director of national intelligence , has said that what Obama offered " was not a peaceful transition " because the FBI was already working to undermine Trump.After nearly two years , Mueller found insufficient evidence to charge anyone in the Trump campaign with conspiring with Russia to sway the election . Throughout his term , Trump has framed the investigation as part of a " witch hunt " meant to destroy his presidency and said it showed the federal bureaucracy was working against him.Obama had no role in directing the FBI 's investigation into ties between Russia and the Trump campaign or in impeding Trump 's transition to president . Though Obama was aware that his intelligence officials were investigating Russian interference , and had concerns about Trump and his background , the investigative decisions were made not by him but by his law enforcement and intelligence agencies.Since his loss to Biden , Trump has repeatedly challenged the fairness of the election with false claims about voting and he has looked for ways to block certification of the vote . The Trump administration has yet to formally acknowledge Biden 's victory , slowing the transition at a time when the nation is facing a confluence of economic and health crises . " The lack of the transition and co-operation is the most reckless and irresponsible thing he has ever done , " David Plouffe , a former senior Obama adviser , said in a recent interview . " We have an election in early November , the new president takes over in the third week of January . It 's no time at all , it 's over in the blink of an eye . The damage is severe . " Follow Lemire on Twitter at http : **32;314;TOOLONG Lemire , The Associated Press <p> Miss something this week ? Do n't panic . CBC 's Marketplace rounds up the consumer and health news you need.Want this in your inbox ? Get the Marketplace newsletter every Friday.There have been over 30,000 price-gouging complaints since the pandemic began with few repercussionsRemember all that tough talk from premiers about cracking down on price gouging during the coronavirus pandemic ? Marketplace has learned there has been little action despite thousands of complaints across Canada . Provinces say the majority of price-gouging complaints received were about personal protective equipment and other essential products , such as disinfecting wipes , toilet paper and paper towels . Read moreIf you 're looking to buy a puppy , you 'll want to read thisAs the pandemic continues , many people without a furry friend are considering the possibility of getting one to keep them company . But if you 're hoping to buy a dog , you might want to watch out for a few things . A Marketplace investigation found that thousands of puppies are being imported to Canada with little oversight , and some may be carrying diseases . Read moreBlack Friday is coming , but public health officials want you to stay home Black Friday is poised to be more fraught this year than ever . Some stores are still advertising in-person sales , even as the pandemic rages on . But some public officials , including Manitoba 's Chief Public Health Officer Dr. Brent Roussin , have a message for stores and for shoppers : Look for safer options , such as online shopping or curbside pickup . Read moreMillions of dollars have been stolen from Canadian minor sports organizations , CBC Sports investigation revealsDo you have kids in minor sports ? You 'll be interested in the latest investigation from CBC Sports . It discovered that in the last decade alone , nearly $8 million has been stolen from dozens of sports leagues and associations across Canada , including $2.4 million from the Ontario Minor Hockey Association . Read more What else is going on ? Flu cases in Canada ' exceptionally low ' so far , public health says The results are encouraging.Heinz will start making ketchup in Canada again Company pulled out of Leamington , Ont. , facility in 2014 to much public outcry.Majority of travellers entering Canada during COVID-19 given OK to not quarantine Experts say routine COVID-19 testing of millions of essential workers crossing border would mitigate risks.This garlic press is a laceration hazard . If you own a Kuraidori slice and dice garlic press , you 'll want to return it.This Ripline outdoor zipline is a fall hazard Consumers should immediately stop using the recalled product and contact B4 Adventure for a replacement trolley.This scooter is a fall hazard Consumers should immediately take the recalled scooter away from children.This ramp from Canadian Tire has been recalled The Tri-Panel Multi-Use Ramp may fail , posing a fall hazard.This week on MarketplaceThis week , we 're tackling two different subjects : puppy imports and pandemic price gouging . Our investigation reveals that despite more than 30,000 complaints , there have been few repercussions for stores alleged to be price gouging . That 's even as data gathered by Statistics Canada for Marketplace shows that the price of disinfecting wipes , hand sanitizer and toilet paper had reached higher-than-average prices during the pandemic.Plus , we investigate how not to buy a puppy.Many Canadians have welcomed a pet to their homes during the pandemic , often buying them through online sites such as Kijiji . But when nearly 40 puppies showed up dead at Toronto 's Pearson International Airport in the summer -- part of a single shipment of more than 500 young dogs from Ukraine -- the spotlight shifted to where we 're getting all our new pets . The trade in puppies is very lucrative , sometimes sourcing out of eastern Europe , where use of puppy mills is rampant . So we set up our cameras back at Toronto 's airport to capture a shipment -- to see who was picking them up -- and took our hidden cameras to witness how they 're sold . We also heard from prominent vets who want the feds to crack down , warning that these dogs are bringing disease along with joy to their adoptive families . It 's a fascinating dive into the opaque world of puppy trafficking , and we 're hoping you 'll join us for the ride . -Asha Tomlinson , David Common and the Marketplace teamMarketplace needs your helpAre you a COVID-19 survivor suffering from long-term side effects that impact your ability to function ? Have you been able to access the medical care you believe you need ? We want to hear from you . Email us at marketplace@cbc.caCatch up on past episodes of Marketplace any time on CBC Gem . <p> A lack of representation from Manitoba on the new Sixties Scoop Healing Foundation is being called " problematic " by a local advocate . Last Thursday , a virtual event was held to launch the Sixties Scoop Healing Foundation , comprising of a 10-member board aimed to provide support and advocate for thousands of Indigenous people who were removed from their families and communities . While this launch marks a milestone for the survivors of the notorious ' 60s Scoop , it is unfortunate that there are no representatives from Manitoba . " The 60s Scoop Legacy of Canada is pleased that there has been a board chosen for the new healing foundation that has been announced , " said Katherine Legrange , Director of 60s Scoop Legacy of Canada on Monday . " However , it was noted that there are no representatives from Manitoba , Yukon and the Atlantic provinces . I think that is problematic given that many of us Sixties Scoop survivors came from the Prairies . " In the 1960s , the Adopt Indian Metis program saw many Indigenous children , including those born in Manitoba , being moved to non-Indigenous families . " I think it is important to have representation in the regions where there are a high number of us being taken , " said Legrange . The Sixties Scoop refers to an era when by over 20,000 Indigenous children were removed from their birth families and communities to be fostered out to , or adopted into predominantly non-Indigenous families across North America . As a result , many were not able to even meet their families and have also lost their cultural identities because of having been removed from their homes during the 1950s until the 1980s . After a decade of struggle , survivors successfully took legal action against the Government of Canada for their loss of heritage , culture and family ties . The federal government agreed to pay $800 million in 2017 , with $50 million going to the establishment of the Sixties Scoop Healing Foundation . In 2015 , then-Manitoba Premier Greg Selinger apologized on behalf of the province for the role it played during the Sixties Scoop . In an email , the Sixties Scoop Healing Foundation Board of Directors noted that as the newly appointed Board Members , they are committed to listening to the voices and working on behalf of Survivors in every part of Canada . " We understand that the selection criteria for this board were based on a number of important considerations , rooted in the feedback by Survivors through a national engagement process , " said the board . " Our members , the vast majority of whom are Sixties Scoop Survivors , reflect a diversity of geographies , languages , cultures , identities , and experiences . Our intention is to bring compassion , integrity , and inclusiveness to all of the Foundation 's activities , and we will look forward to working with Survivors and their communities in every Province and Territory . " The 10 Board of Directors are Cheryl Swidrovich , Danelle St. Laurent , Eric Phillips , Gary McDermott , Halie Bruce , Selina Legge , Wayne Garnons-Williams , Vicky Boldo , Anna Watts , and Justice Harry LaForme . According to the Sixties Scoop Healing Foundation website , " the recruitment process ran in an open , inclusive and manner , " ensuring that candidates came from diverse backgrounds and experiences . Nicole Wong is a Local Journalism Initiative reporter who works out of the Winnipeg Sun . The Local Journalism Initiative is funded by the Government of Canada.Nicole Wong , Local Journalism Initiative Reporter , Winnipeg Sun <p> Olympic Plaza is always the first of Calgary 's city-maintained outdoor rinks to open because of its refrigeration -- and this year that 's no different . The City of Calgary is going ahead with all of its outdoor rinks , with some minor tweaks and changes because of the pandemic.Working with AHS , the city 's Todd Reichardt said skaters will notice a few changes , like fencing around Olympic Plaza as well as a 100-person limit.But other rinks , as far as Reichardt knows , wo n't have capacity limits . The goal for this skating season is to be nimble to keep Calgarians safe . " We 're in the fun business in parks , " Reichardt said . " When it comes to skating we want to make it accessible to the public as best we can ... but we also have to be mindful that we 're not going to be creating an environment that would contribute to the incidents and the transmission of COVID . " With the city trying to encourage people to get outside , Reichardt said more fun is planned for the long Calgary winter -- starting with fire pits . The city 's parks department has a few on hand and Reichardt said some of them will be lent out to community associations . ' Puts a smile on people 's faces'Others will be set up in key spots , like near the Eau Claire promenade . " Again , being mindful of the social distance ... there 's something about being outside when it 's cold and you smell like wood smoke and it 's just it puts a smile on people 's faces , " Reichardt said . " I think that 's what we 're really genuinely hoping we can do . " Other outdoor rinks are coming along , but Reichardt said most likely wo n't be ready to skate on until a week before the holidays in December . And this year , there 's a new addition : the North Glenmore Ice Trail . The ice trail is a pilot project where Calgarians can skate 730 metres of connected track through North Glenmore Park.In Sunnyside , one community rink is already up and running . Volunteer Jim Besse says after 20 years , this is the earliest he 's been able to flood , and open the rink . " It 's very gratifying to see the kids have some sort of degree of normalcy in terms of playing outdoors , " Besse said . " I mean , you can see this is still early in the day . " In terms of COVID-19 , Besse said the city has provided those in the Adopt a Rink program signage reminding folks to keep their distance . A week into its opening , the rink is already well used -- games of hockey have started and some little ones are taking their first glides close to home.Darvin Knorr and his family can see the rink from their nearby home . He said it 's exciting to see the flooding start in the fall -- a sign that winter is around the corner and it 's time to lace up . " It 's a safe activity for us to do outdoors this year , " Irena Knorr said . " So we definitely noticed a lot of people using the ice this year , maybe more than ever . But it 's something that we can do safely . " A full list of the city 's outdoor rinks can be found on the City of Calgary website . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , in an apparent message to U.S. President-elect Joe Biden , said on Sunday there should be no return to the 2015 Iran nuclear deal abandoned by President Donald Trump . Biden , who takes office on Jan. 20 , has said he would rejoin the accord if Tehran first resumed strict compliance , and would work with allies " to strengthen and extend it , while more effectively pushing back against Iran 's other destabilising activities " . The agreement , which world powers reached with Iran , sought to limit Tehran 's nuclear programme to prevent it from developing nuclear weapons in return for the easing of economic sanctions . <p> BAKU , Azerbaijan -- As Azerbaijan regains control of land it lost to Armenian forces a quarter-century ago , civilians who fled the fighting decades ago wonder if they can go back home now -- and if there 's still a home to go back to . An estimated 600,000 Azerbaijanis were displaced in the 1990s war that left the Nagorno-Karabakh region under the control of ethnic Armenian separatists and large adjacent territories in Armenia 's hands . During six weeks of renewed fighting this fall that ended Nov. 10 , Azerbaijan took back parts of Nagorno-Karabakh itself and sizeable swaths of the outlying areas . More territory is being returned as part of the ceasefire agreement that stopped the latest fighting . But as Azerbaijani forces discovered when the first area , Aghdam , was turned over on Friday , much of the recovered land is uninhabitable . The city of Aghdam , where 50,000 people once lived , is now a shattered ruin . Adil Sharifov , 62 , who left his hometown in 1992 during the first war and lives in Azerbaijan 's capital , Baku , knows he will find similar devastation if he returns to the city of Jabrayil , which he longs to do . Jabrayil is one of the outlying areas regained by Azerbaijani troops before the recent fighting ended . Soon after it was taken , one of Sharifov 's cousins went there and told him the city was destroyed , including the large house with an orchard where Sharifov 's family once lived . Nonetheless , " the day when I return there will be the greatest happiness for me , " he said . For years , he said , his family had followed reports about Jabrayil on the internet . They knew the destruction was terrible , but Sharifov 's late mother retained a desperate hope that their house had been spared and held on to the keys . " I will build an even better house , " he vowed . Ulviya Jumayeva , 50 , can go back to better , though not ideal circumstances in her native Shusha , a city that Azerbaijani forces took in the key offensive of the six-week war . Her younger brother , Nasimi , took part in the battle and phoned to tell her the apartment their family fled in 1992 was intact , though mostly stripped of the family 's possessions . " According to him , it is clear that Armenians lived there after us , and then they took everything away . But our large mirror in the hallway , which we loved to look at as children , remains , " Jumayeva said , adding : " Maybe my grandchildren will look in this mirror . " " We all have houses in Baku , but everyone considered them to be not permanent , because all these years we lived in the hope that we would return to Shusha , " she said . " Our hearts , our thoughts have always been in our hometown . " But she acknowledged that her feelings toward Armenians have become more bitter . " My school friends were mostly Armenian . I never treated ordinary Armenians badly , believing that their criminal leaders who unleashed the war were to blame for the massacre , war , and grief that they brought to their people as well , " Jumayeva said . " But after the current events , after the shelling of peaceful cities ... after the Armenians who are now leaving our territories , which are even outside of Karabakh , burn down the houses of Azerbaijanis in which they lived illegally ... something fractured in me . I changed my attitude toward them , " she said . " I understood that we , Azerbaijanis , will not be able to live peacefully next to the Armenians . " While Sharifov has less to go back to , he has a more moderate view , saying the two ethnic groups with different religious traditions still have the potential to live together amicably . " If the Armenians observe the laws of Azerbaijan , and do not behave like bearded men who came to kill , then we will live in peace , " he said . " The time to shoot is over . Enough casualties . We want peace , we do not want war . " Associated Press writers Aida Sultanova in London and Jim Heintz in Moscow contributed to this story . The Associated Press <p> A sharp rise in coronavirus infections in the Gaza Strip could overwhelm the Palestinian enclave 's meagre medical system by next week , public health advisers said on Sunday.Gaza , where the dense and poor population of two million is vulnerable to contagions , has logged 14,000 coronavirus cases and 65 deaths , mostly since August.Seventy-nine of Gaza 's 100 ventilators have been taken up by COVID-19 patients , said Abdelraouf Elmanama , a microbiologist who is part of the enclave 's pandemic task force . " In 10 days the health system will become unable to absorb such a hike in cases and there might be cases that will not find a place at intensive care units , " he said , adding that the current 0.05 per cent mortality rate among COVID-19 patients could rise.Gaza 's Islamist Hamas rulers have so far imposed one lockdown . A long-standing Israeli blockade , which is supported by neighbouring Egypt , has crippled the Gazan economy and undermined its public health apparatus.Israel says it is trying to keep weapons from reaching Hamas , against which it has fought three wars and whose facilities it struck earlier on Sunday in retaliation for a Palestinian rocket launch against one of its southern cities . " We are not giving Hamas any ' coronavirus discounts ' , " Israeli cabinet minister Izhar Shay told Army Radio . " We will continue responding as appropriate . " But Shay said Israel was enabling international humanitarian aid to reach Gaza , adding : " This is the level that we can preserve in the coronavirus context . " Abdelnaser Soboh , emergency health lead in the World Health Organization 's Gaza sub-office , cautioned , however , that " within a week , we will become unable to care for critical cases . " The infection rate among those being tested was 21 per cent , with a relative increase in carriers over the age of 60 , he said . " This is a dangerous indicator since most of ( those over 60 ) may need to be hospitalized , " Soboh added . <p> NEW YORK -- After Christopher Hughey tweeted that he 's tackling his first Thanksgiving turkey this year , the advice started rolling in.Brine it . Do n't bother . Try " spatchcocking " -- grilling the bird split open . Remember to turn on the oven , and expect that something will burn . " One extreme is that it 's going to be dry , and inedible and gross , " said the Charlotte , North Carolina , resident , who already does n't like cooking poultry because of fears he 'll undercook it and sicken people . " The other extreme is that we 'll all wind up in urgent care . " With health officials urging Americans to stay home or limit Thanksgiving gatherings , food experts say rookie cooks nervous about attempting their first Turkey Day spreads can avoid disaster and keep everyone healthy by following a few basic tips.The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is also offering advice on how to prevent coronavirus infections while celebrating , including eating outside if possible , limiting traffic in the kitchen and just have one person serve the food.As for the meal itself , experts say to get started well before the big day . A common mistake : Failing to plan so all the dishes can be ready in time . That includes leaving enough time for frozen turkeys to defrost in the fridge , where temperatures are cold enough to prevent bacteria from multiplying.Since it takes a day of thawing for every 4 to 5 pounds , that could add up to several days depending on the turkey 's size . Otherwise , sticking a frozen turkey in the oven could result in a bird that looks nicely browned , but is still cold inside . " You 'll basically have a turkey popsicle that maybe looks good , but it 's not going to be cooked , " said Frank Proto at the Institute of Culinary Education in New York.Once the bird is thawed , experts say to resist any instincts to rinse it before cooking , which could end up splattering germs around . Thoroughly cooking should kill any germs on the turkey.Making sure the bird is properly cooked -- it should be 165 degrees at the thickest part -- also means using a meat thermometer . Contrary to the advice many offered to Hughey , experts are n't fans of the pop-up thermometers that come stuck in some birds . " Those are not always effective in determining the temperature , " said Angela Shaw , a specialist at the Iowa State University 's food safety extension.Though there 's debate about it , Shaw also recommends cooking the stuffing outside the turkey . Otherwise , she said it could pick up bacteria from the bird . Getting the stuffing hot enough to kill any germs could mean burning or drying out the turkey , she said.Temperature control can be a problem even after everyone is done eating ; experts say to refrigerate leftovers within two hours , since bacteria can grow quickly on food that 's left out.A dry , overcooked bird is the main worry for Celeste Molina , who 's staying home with her partner and their roommates instead of spending it with family because of the pandemic . Molina , who works at a screen printing firm in Portland , Oregon , knows how badly first attempts can go ; years ago , her aunt ended up burning the Thanksgiving bird . " We got to her house and she 's like , ' I 'm just going to order you guys McDonald 's , ' " she said.Molina is n't worried about her first turkey , but just in case , she and her partner plan to buy a chicken to roast alongside it.Lori DeSanti , a real estate agent in Meriden , Connecticut , will also be making turkey with her husband for the first time , instead of going to her dad 's or relative 's home.DeSanti is n't that concerned about the turkey -- she 's never been a huge fan -- and is focusing on pulling off a stuffing recipe . " That 's what I 'm more worried about ruining , " she said.Advance planning could be important for another reason this year : Making sure you can get the right size bird , since gatherings are expected to be smaller.In suburban Detroit , Robyn Dwoskin plans to get a turkey breast instead of a whole bird for her first attempt at a Thanksgiving spread , since it will just be her husband , their daughters and her mom . She 's cooked turkey breasts in her slow cooker before , but has n't yet figured out what she 'll do for Thanksgiving . " I 'm still in denial that I 'm actually making Thanksgiving this year , " said Dwoskin , who owns a social media engagement company.Back in North Carolina , Hughey is rethinking his game plan for the dinner he 's cooking for his ex-wife and sons . " Honestly , I hate to say this . I 'm thinking about cheating , " said Hughey , who owns a health care technology company . " I 'm thinking my next stop is this place that does a fully cooked turkey . " The Associated Press Health and Science Department receives support from the Howard Hughes Medical Institute 's Department of Science Education . The AP is solely responsible for all content.Candice Choi , The Associated Press <p> The University of Manitoba Senate passed a motion on Nov. 4 to modify graduation requirements for the Bachelor of Arts degrees in the Faculty of Arts to include an Indigenous Content requirement effective next Sept. 1 . The modification was proposed by the Faculty of Arts requiring its students to complete a minimum of three credit hours from a list of courses that satisfy an Indigenous Content requirement to graduate . Courses that satisfy the requirement include Native studies , history , political studies as well as women 's and gender studies courses . In 2016 , a similar requirement was implemented for all students at the University of Winnipeg . " The Faculty of Arts has been working on this for years , in consultation with Indigenous faculty and the Department of Native Studies , " said the U of M Students ' Union president Jelynn Dela Cruz on Tuesday . " In the advocacy of student leaders , this need stemmed from Indigenous learners pointing out that students are continually graduating with a lack of knowledge regarding decolonization , reconciliation , and their relationship to the land . " Prior to an Indigenous content requirement , Indigenous students at the U of M have voiced a lack of support for the re-traumatization that occurs within post-secondary institutions . In many discussions with Indigenous student leaders , they would vocalized their community 's experiences . Often , they feel singled-out as the only Indigenous learner in a classroom , and they feel the added burden of teaching and offering an authentic perspective . " As non-Indigenous students , we have both a responsibility to learn and a responsibility to teach this content , once our degrees are complete . An Indigenous content requirement is essential for the university 's goal of graduating informed and community-minded citizens , " said Cruz . The Faculty of Arts believe that the future success of their graduates depends on understanding the cultures , epistemologies , sovereignty , treaty rights , political status , and histories of Indigenous peoples in Canada . Among the rationale for the proposal was that the U of M is home to the National Center for Truth and Reconciliation . Therefore , the requirements align with the university 's commitment to support and implement the Calls to Action specific to education , stating that educational institutions must build student capacity for intercultural understanding , empathy , and mutual respect . As a result of these commitments , the Faculty of Arts proposed the " Indigenous Content Course " designation for a three-credit requirement for all Arts degrees . This decision was reached through broad consultation by a committee including faculty , graduate students , undergraduate students , and staff throughout three years . " The most important reason for including this content in Arts students ' degree is that it better equips them to understand the world they live in as Canadian citizens/residents , as well as citizens of the world , " said Heidi Marx , Associate Dean of Undergraduate Affairs . " When students first learn about the residential school system , for instance , we often hear them say , ' Why did n't I know about this already ? Why did n't anyone tell me about this before now ? ' Learning about the wrongs of the past also allows students to become active , engaged , and empathetic participants in reconciliation with Indigenous peoples . " Nicole Wong is a Local Journalism Initiative reporter who works out of the Winnipeg Sun . The Local Journalism Initiative is funded by the Government of Canada.Nicole Wong , Local Journalism Initiative Reporter , Winnipeg Sun <p> Belarus police detained more than 200 people in Minsk on Sunday during the latest in months of anti-government protests since a disputed presidential election in August , human rights activists said . Thousands took to the streets of the Belarusian capital , and police used stun grenades to disperse the crowd , several Belarus media outlets reported . The Vesna-96 rights group said 205 people had been detained so far . 
@@52225397 <h> Author Archives : <p> JERUSALEM - Israeli authorities have reopened the two crossings with the Gaza Strip after days of hostilities in a sign that cease-fire talks may be advancing . Israeli and Hamas officials confirmed Su ... <p> TOKYO - North Korea said Sunday it wants an investigation into a raid on its embassy in Spain last month , calling it a " grave terrorist attack " and an act of extortion that violates international law .... <p> VATICAN CITY - Pope Francis has issued sweeping new sex abuse legislation for the Vatican City State and Vatican diplomats that requires the immediate reporting of allegations to Vatican prosecutors , ... <p> OTTAWA - A youth is facing new charges in connection with a terrorism investigation in Kingston , Ont . The charges were read in provincial court Friday as the youth appeared at a bail hearing . The susp ... <p> Vancouver Canucks fans got a glimpse of the future on Thursday night as defenceman Quinn Hughes made his NHL debut . The 19-year-old elicited cheers from the hometown crowd with his speed and skill , an ... @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ looking a lot more secure of late . Jamie Benn scored the shootout winner as the Stars came from behind to beat the Edmonton Oilers 3-2 on Thursday , p ... <p> WINNIPEG - Jordan Eberle had a feeling the New York Islanders could pull off a comeback against the Winnipeg Jets on Thursday night . He did his part to ensure that happened . Eberle and Casey Cizikas s ... 
@@52232704 <h> Author Archives : <p> LONDON - British lawmakers were preparing to blow open the Brexit process and put a host of rejected options back on the table - including keeping the U.K. close to the European Union or even remainin ... <p> BEIRA , Mozambique - Cyclone-ravaged Mozambique faces a " second disaster " from cholera and other diseases , the World Health Organization warned on Tuesday , while relief operations pressed into rural ar ... <p> JERUSALEM - The Israeli army on Tuesday bombed several targets in the Gaza Strip and bolstered its forces along the volatile frontier as a truce with the territory 's Hamas rulers showed signs of unrav ... <p> WASHINGTON - An exuberant President Donald Trump took a victory lap on Capitol Hill Tuesday , emboldened by the end of the special counsel 's Russia probe , even as Democrats pressed insistently for Robe ... <p> WASHINGTON - The Democratic-led House failed Tuesday to override President Donald Trump 's first veto , salvaging his effort to steer billions of extra dollars to erecting border barriers and delivering ... <p> DUBAI , United Arab Emirates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mideast competitor Careem for $3.1 billion , giving the San Francisco-based firm the commanding edge in a re ... <p> MANCHESTER , England - Manchester United hired Ole Gunnar Solskjaer as its permanent manager on Thursday as a reward for leading the team to 14 wins in 19 games in his impressive interim spell . The for ... <p> DHAKA , Bangladesh - A fire broke out Thursday in an office building in Bangladesh 's capital and some people were feared trapped inside , witnesses and an official said . Fire Department control room off ... 
@@52232710 <h> UN agency : Israel 's Gaza blockade has devastated economy <p> JERUSALEM -- Israel 's blockade of the Hamas-ruled Gaza Strip has cost the seaside territory as much as $16.7 billion in economic losses and sent poverty and unemployment skyrocketing , a U.N . report said Wednesday , as it called on Israel to lift the closure . <p> The report by the U.N . Conference on Trade and Development echoed calls by numerous international bodies over the years criticizing the blockade . But its findings , looking at an 11-year period ending in 2018 , marked perhaps the most detailed analysis of the Israeli policy to date . <p> Israel imposed the blockade in 2007 after Hamas , an Islamic militant group that opposes Israel 's existence , violently seized control of Gaza from the forces of the internationally recognized Palestinian Authority . The Israeli measures , along with restrictions by neighbouring Egypt , have tightly controlled the movement of people and goods in and out of the territory . <p> Israel says the restrictions are needed to keep Hamas from building up its military capabilities . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the years . <p> But critics say the blockade has amounted to collective punishment , hurting the living conditions of Gaza 's 2 million inhabitants while failing to oust Hamas or moderate its behaviour . Gaza has almost no clean drinking water , it suffers from frequent power outages and people can not freely travel abroad . <p> " The result has been the near-collapse of Gaza 's regional economy and its isolation from the Palestinian economy and the rest of the world , " the U.N . agency said in a statement . <p> The report analyzed both the effects of the closure , which has greatly limited Gaza 's ability to export goods , as well as the effects of the three wars , which took place in 2008-2009 , 2012 and 2014 . <p> The last war was especially devastating , killing over 2,200 Palestinians , more than half of them civilians , and displacing some 100,000 people from homes that were damaged or destroyed , according to U.N . figures . Seventy-three people , including six civilians , were killed on the Israeli side , according @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fire brought life to a standstill in southern Israel . <p> Using two methodologies , the report said that overall economic losses due to the blockade and wars ranged from $7.8 billion to $16.7 billion . It said Gaza 's economy grew by a total of just 4.8% during the entire period , even as its population grew over 40% . <p> These economic losses helped propel unemployment in Gaza from 35% in 2006 to 52% in 2018 , one of the highest rates in the world , UNCTAD said . <p> It said the poverty rate jumped from 39% in 2007 to 55% in 2017 . Based on Gaza 's economic trends before the closure , the report said the poverty rate could have been just 15% in 2017 if the wars and blockade had not occurred . <p> " The impact is the impoverishment of the people of Gaza , who are already under blockade , " said Mahmoud Elkhafif , the agency 's co-ordinator of assistance to the Palestinian people and author of the report . <p> Israel has long accused the U.N . of being biased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only a brief mention that indiscriminate rocket fire at Israeli civilian areas is prohibited under international law . " Palestinian militants must cease that practice immediately , " it said . <p> Israel 's Foreign Ministry accused UNCTAD of failing its mission to assist developing economies and presenting a " one-sided and distorted depiction " that disregards " terrorist organizations ' control over the Gaza Strip and their responsibility for what occurs in the Gaza Strip . " <p> " In light of all this , we can not take the findings of the reports it publishes seriously , and this report is no different , " it said . <p> In Gaza , Hamas spokesman Hazem Qassem said the report revealed " the level of the crime " committed by Israel . <p> " This siege has amounted to a real war crime and pushed all services sectors in the Gaza Strip to collapse , " he said . " These figures also reveal the international inability to deal with the illegal siege on Gaza . " <p> Gisha , an Israeli human rights group that pushes for freedom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was Israel 's " moral and legal obligation " to lift the closure . " The true price paid by Palestinians in lost time , opportunities , and separation from loved ones is inestimable , " it said . <p> The U.N . agency said it compiled the report at the request of the U.N . General Assembly and noted that it did not include other costs of Israeli occupation over the Palestinians . Israel captured the West Bank , east Jerusalem and Gaza Strip in the 1967 Mideast war , though it withdrew from Gaza in 2005 . <p> UNCTAD , a technical agency that seeks to reduce global inequality , recommended that Israel lift the blockade to allow free trade and movement . It also called for reconstruction of Gaza 's infrastructure , addressing Gaza 's electricity and water crisis , allowing the Palestinians to develop offshore natural gas fields and for the international community to push Hamas and the Palestinian Authority to reconcile . 
@@86323934 <p> This copy is for your personal non-commercial use only . To order presentation-ready copies of Toronto Star content for distribution to colleagues , clients or customers , or inquire about permissions/licensing , please go to : **27;1436;TOOLONG <h> Surprised that some Black people and Latinos voted for Trump ? Try looking at them as individuals <p> In other news , it turns out that more Blacks , Latinos and gays turned out for Donald Trump this time than last time . <p> Why is that news ? The only surprise is that anyone is surprised . <p> That certain groups are presumed to vote in their supposed self-interest -- as determined by other groups who know better what 's best for them -- is not merely presumptuous . It 's profiling . <p> Today , some of the same social critics who warn against stereotyping Blacks or Latinos are now scratching their heads about why they did n't vote as expected in the U.S. presidential election . Profiling can be perilous . <p> It is a human impulse . But impossibly dehumanizing at times . <p> Profiling seeks out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ differences . It relies on the notion that people of similar backgrounds or aspirations hold similar beliefs , live in similar neighbourhoods , and so on . <p> The biggest problems with profiling are the premises and definitions that underlie it . That more Latinos voted for Trump this time tells us little of interest , because it 's such an imprecise term ( and is overshadowed by the overpowering reality that whites voted massively and decisively for him ) . <p> Just as LGBTQ voters can be Republican or Democrat , Latinos are more different than they are alike . <p> Profiling is a tool and a template . It is a form of demography and part of democracy , for better or for worst -- which is why pollsters , political operatives and party fundraisers mine the data to harvest votes and donations at election time . <p> They 're just more sophisticated than the rest of us in slicing and dicing the fruit salad . They know that skin colour is only skin deep , so they drill down for other demographic details such as education , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ divisions came when I was posted to the Toronto Star 's Middle East bureau years ago . Despite my background as a political reporter , I only realized as a foreign correspondent how many ways Israelis could be subdivided . <p> Not merely as hawks versus doves , but ethnic Ashkenazi versus Sephardi ; secular Russian immigrants versus ultra-Orthodox Haredi ; socialist kibbutzniks versus modern Orthodox Jewish settlers ; urban versus suburban ; Muslim and Christian Arab citizens versus Jewish citizens ; and last but not least , left versus right . The miracle was how quickly those internecine divisions melted away when Israelis faced an external enemy and existential threat ; and how quickly the internal tensions returned ( Palestinians , too , fought their own civil war in Gaza between Islamist Hamas rejectionists and secular Yasser Arafat loyalists ) . <p> The security services typecast people as safe or threatening based not only on background but back story and behaviour -- whether at airport check-ins , military checkpoints or political rallies . Which is why Yitzhak Rabin 's security guards let down their guard when a kippah-wearing orthodox @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he did n't fit their Palestinian profile of a clear and present danger . <p> Stephen Harper 's Tories made inroads in the GTA suburbs by appealing to the traditional values of many immigrant communities that converged with conservatism . His then-minister of multiculturalism , Jason Kenney , once sat me down to demonstrate his mastery of Chinese Canadian demographics -- delineating early anti-Communist immigrants from Taiwan , subsequent waves of Cantonese-speaking Hong Kong dual citizens , and more recent ( more apolitical ) arrivals from mainland China . <p> The New Democratic Party -- founded as an alliance between the co-operative agricultural movement and the labour movement -- long ago learned the working class would not reflexively rally to their side . If workers are reluctant to recognize their own enlightened self-interest -- rallying to Doug Ford 's Tories even when they campaigned on cancelling a minimum wage hike and then freezing it for years -- why are progressives perplexed when Blacks or Latinos warm up to Trump ? <p> Vote-determining issues are more likely to be economic than ethnic , and political preferences are often more idiosyncratic than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ <p> Loading ... Loading ... Loading ... Loading ... Loadi ... The point is that profiling tells you everything and nothing about people . Just as postal codes are imprecise -- people are unpredictable . <p> Political parties bank on profiling because there 's much to gain from voters and donors , and little to lose from mass mailings or email blasting that misses the mark . The minimal cost of bulk postage and mass spamming is a mere rounding error . <p> The rest of us ca n't afford to be so reckless with our wild guesses , unproven hunches and dehumanizing assumptions . If the penalty of your profiling is an assassin 's bullet , or an airplane bombing , or a human rights humiliation , then the miscalculation yields an incalculable cost . <h> More from The Star &amp; Partners <h> More Politics <h> Top Stories <p> Copyright owned or licensed by Toronto Star Newspapers Limited . All rights reserved . Republication or distribution of this content is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Toronto Star Newspapers Limited and/or its licensors . To order copies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 
@@52235581 <p> WASHINGTON - Sales of new U.S. homes climbed 4.9 per cent in February , an indication that falling mortgage rates have given a boost to demand from buyers . The Commerce Department said Friday that new ... <p> The Alberta Party candidate for Red Deer-South says she and her party need to stick to their authenticity in order to be successful this provincial election campaign.Ryan McDougall describes the Alber ... <p> Voters in one P.E.I. riding face a tough choice in the April 23 provincial election : Matthew MacKay , or Matthew MacKay . Seeking re-election in the provincial district of Kensington-Malpeque , Progressi ... <p> BOSTON - From a Napa Valley vintner to a Hot Pockets heiress , a procession of wealthy parents made their first appearances in federal court Friday on charges they paid bribes to get their children int ... <p> WASHINGTON - Border officials are aiming to more than quadruple the number of asylum seekers sent back over the southern border each day , a major expansion of a top government effort to address the sw ... <p> KIEV , Ukraine - Voters in Ukraine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaign that produced a comedian with no political experience as the front-runner and allegations of vo ... <p> JERUSALEM - Israeli authorities have reopened the two crossings with the Gaza Strip after days of hostilities in a sign that cease-fire talks may be advancing . Israeli and Hamas officials confirmed Su ... 
