<h> Israeli forces killed 27 heading to aid site : Gaza officials <p> Palestinians mourn over the body of Reem Al-Akhras who was killed while heading to a Gaza aid hub . <p> Palestinian health officials and witnesses say Israeli forces fired on people as they headed toward an aid distribution site on Tuesday , killing at least 27 , in the third such incident in three days . The army said it fired " near a few individual suspects " who left the designated route , approached its forces and ignored warning shots.The near-daily shootings have come after an Israeli and US-backed foundation established aid distribution points inside Israeli military zones , a system it says is designed to circumvent Hamas . The United Nations has rejected the new system , saying it does n't address Gaza 's mounting hunger crisis and allows Israel to use aid as a weapon.The Israeli military said it was looking into reports of casualties on Tuesday . It previously said it fired warning shots at suspects who approached its forces early Sunday and Monday , when health officials and witnesses said 34 people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or blocking them from reaching the aid sites.The Gaza Humanitarian Foundation , which operates the sites , says there has been no violence in or around them . On Tuesday , it acknowledged that the Israeli military was investigating whether civilians were wounded " after moving beyond the designated safe corridor and into a closed military zone , " in an area that was " well beyond our secure distribution site . " Either way we will dieThe shootings all occurred at the Flag Roundabout , around a kilometer ( 1,000 yards ) from one of the GHF 's distribution sites in the now mostly uninhabited southern city of Rafah . The entire area is an Israeli military zone where journalists have no access outside of army-approved embeds.At least 27 people were killed early Tuesday , according to Zaher al-Waheidi , the head of the Gaza Health Ministry 's records department.Hisham Mhanna , a spokesperson for the International Committee of the Red Cross , said its field hospital in Rafah received 184 wounded people , 19 of whom were declared dead on arrival and eight more who later died of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hospital in the city of Khan Younis.There were three children and two women among the dead , according to Mohammed Saqr , head of nursing at Nasser Hospital . Hospital director Atef al-Hout said most of the patients had gunshot wounds.Yasser Abu Lubda , a 50-year-old displaced Palestinian from Rafah , said the shooting started around 4 am in the city 's Flag Roundabout area , around one kilometer ( 1,000 yards ) away from the aid distribution hub . He said he saw several people killed or wounded.Neima al-Aaraj , a woman from Khan Younis , gave a similar account . " There were many martyrs and wounded , " she said , saying the shooting by Israeli forces was " indiscriminate . " She said she managed to reach the hub but returned empty-handed . " There was no aid there , " she said . " After the martyrs and wounded , I wo n't return , " she said . " Either way we will die . " Rasha al-Nahal , another witness , said " there was gunfire from all directions . " She said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ along the road . She said she also found no aid when she arrived at the distribution hub , and that Israeli forces " fired at us as we were returning . " 3 Israeli soldiers killed in northern GazaThe Israeli military meanwhile said Tuesday that three of its soldiers were killed in the Gaza Strip , in what appeared to be the deadliest attack on Israel 's forces since it ended a ceasefire with Hamas in March.The military said the three soldiers , all in their early 20s , fell during combat in northern Gaza on Monday , without providing details . Israeli media reported that they were killed in an explosion in the Jabaliya area.Israel ended the ceasefire in March after Hamas refused to change the agreement to release more hostages sooner . Israeli strikes have killed thousands of Palestinians since then , according to Gaza 's Health Ministry.Hamas-led militants killed some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and took 251 people hostage in the Oct 7 , 2023 , attack into Israel that ignited the war . They are still holding 58 hostages , a third of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rest were released in ceasefire agreements or other deals.Israel 's military campaign has killed over 54,000 Palestinians , mostly women and children , according to the Gaza Health Ministry , which does not say how many of the dead were civilians or combatants . The ministry is led by medical professionals but reports to the Hamas-run government . Its toll is seen as generally reliable by U.N . agencies and independent experts , though Israel has challenged its numbers.Israel says it has killed around 20,000 militants , without providing evidence.Around 860 Israeli soldiers have been killed since the Oct 7 attack , including more than 400 during the fighting inside Gaza . <h> ABOUT US <p> Nagaland Post is an English newspaper published from Dimapur in the Indian state of Nagaland . It is the first and highest circulated daily newspaper of Nagaland state and also the first newspaper in Nagaland to be published in multi-colour.
