<h> A fresh view on existing challenges <p> WE face into a New Year with hope . This year , however , is a little different as that hope is well founded . As we wait for the formation of a new Government , we have reason to be optimistic . The General Election in November was not one of massive change . The electorate voted to retain the status quo as regards parties , but many of the faces have changed . And while the deal that is yet to be struck will come as no surprise to anyone , a slightly younger and more gender balanced D ? il can only be a good thing . In 2025 , we face many of the same issues we did in 2024 and 2023 . Wars in Ukraine and Gaza have had directly affected our day-to-day lives and though inflation is slowing , high prices look set to remain . The cost of living in Ireland today is nothing short of scandalous . Those on lower to middle incomes would , in many cases , be forgiven for questioning the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ versus what the State would provide if they decided to throw their hat at it and , if on the younger side , question their future in the Emerald Isle . This is just one of the multi-faceted challenges facing the incoming TDs . It 's not one that will be sorted overnight , but Irish people have to hope that , rather than trying to turn the ship mid-term , that the new faces at the helm might have more success in steadying our trajectory over the coming five years . It is hard for us to consistently hear that we are in crisis , or facing down impending crises . It is tiring and wears people down . On the one hand , we are being told that the Government is running a surplus , while down at your local shop , buying anything of consequence will cost you far more than you 'd ideally like to pay for it . This crop of deputies will oversee what happens next as regards our supports for Ukrainian visitors and International Protection applicants . They will frame housing and economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from all sides . As we take our first steps into a new year , Ireland is in a quandry . Boasting an economy that is financially rich , we have too many areas in which we are societally poor . If this Government is to do one thing it has to be to balance these too extremes . We have ample opportunity to invest in captial projects that will futureproof our island , while addressing current issues . We have the chance to make real change and real progress , but only if this Government keeps an eye beyond the term of this D ? il . Short-term politics may make headlines , but the real value of having a seat at the table it to leave the country in a better position to that in which you found it . We begin 2025 in the hope that this is your aim . <p> A native of Ennis , Colin McGann has been editor of The Clare Champion since August 2020 . Former editor of The Clare People , he is a journalism and communications graduate of Dublin Institute of Technology .
