<h> FASHION &amp; BEAUTY <h> By Deirdre McQuillan and Simone Gannon <h> Caoimhe Dowling <h> Fashion designer <p> Caoimhe Dowling <p> Dowling , based in Copenhagen , is a Limerick School of Art and Design honours BA graduate with a master 's degree in sustainable fashion and textiles from the Royal Danish Academy . An independent fashion designer , she works in the hip multicultural neighbourhood of Norrebro , is pursuing a PhD in sustainability supported by TUS Rise and is on a knitwear residency in the Faroe Islands . Turning Blue , her first collection of woven textiles was designed and made in collaboration with Woven in the Bone artisan weavers in Scotland and Donegal Yarns . The hooded jackets , shorts , slouchy trousers and floor-length coats in distorted herringbone -- contemporary versions of classic tweeds -- were supplemented with pieces in embroidered denim deadstock . " My biggest influence was Vivienne Westwood and what she did with Harris tweed , " says Dowling , who describes working with tweed as like moulding clay . She is from Listowel , Co Kerry , and her deep-rooted love of nature and the environment is central to her work . In June she was part of a group of cutting-edge sustainable fashion designers selected for the influential menswear show Pitti Uomo in Florence sponsored by French multinational Kering , which described her as " merging her Irish heritage with Danish design flair " . Her new collection will be launched later this year . <h> Alice McGrath <h> Model <p> Alice McGrath <p> Alice McGrath made her modelling debut as a schoolgirl last January , opening the Dior haute couture show at the Mus ? e Rodin in Paris , a coup for a young , inexperienced Irish model . She has n't looked back since . Dior shot her for its holiday 2024 and prefall campaigns and its summer campaign for Vogue . She comes from Omagh , Co Tyrone , and was scouted by IMG modelling agency in 2021 . She moved to London after her A Levels , and her first job walking for J W Anderson SS24 at London Fashion Week . She continues to work for Dior , but in the past year she has also walked for Chanel in Manchester , Chanel haute couture in Paris and most recently in Hong Kong . She was a cover star for Harper 's Bazaar Korea and Heroine magazine as well as modelling for online fashion magazine Self Service and in campaigns for Miu Miu and Elle Mexico . Plans to study at university are on hold as her modelling career develops . <h> Eimear Lynch <h> Fashion photographer <p> Eimear Lynch <p> Lynch , from Enniskerry , is a former Maynooth University media studies graduate who was always interested in fashion and fashion photography . Last year she created a reportage-based photo book focusing on teenage girlhood . Its success inspired her to plan a broader project on teenagers " from Communion to debs and beyond " this year . Having moved to London in 2018 , where she learned about fashion photography from assisting the acclaimed Tim Walker , she is now based in Brighton . She has acted as a tour photographer for Fontaines DC , having met and formed a friendship with the band during Covid . Her most recent work was backstage photography at MiuMiu 's October show in Paris -- " it was great to be in the middle of a big show with Anna Wintour walking by while I was shooting " , she says . Her camera is a Mamiya 7 rangefinder , as she loves film , but she also uses digital for commercial work . She is currently developing more work in fashion photography , including editorials for The Face and other magazines , blending the worlds of fashion and documentary . <h> Suzy Dunne <h> Beauty entrepreneur <p> Suzy Dunne . Photograph : Juergen Hammer <p> Suzy Dunne , co-founder of Hildun Beauty along with her husband , Mark Dunne , has built a small yet mighty beauty brand that has established itself firmly since launch . Despite entering the competitive beauty market just two years ago , Hildun Beauty has become beloved -- and with good reason . Dunne 's approach to product development aligns perfectly with what beauty consumers ultimately want : affordable , high-performance , sleekly packaged products that consistently outperform their price point . The brand first gained attention with its range of Silk to Set Kajal Eyeliners , which have won awards and earned praise beyond Ireland . This success was further amplified by a strategic collaboration with celebrity make-up artist Hannah Martin , introducing the liners to a broader audience and cementing their popularity . Dunne 's steady approach and commitment to creating top-tier , affordable products make Hildun Beauty poised for significant success on the global stage . <h> Peig ? n Crowley <h> Beauty entrepreneur <p> Peig ? n Crowley <p> Already a standout figure in the beauty industry , Peig ? n Crowley is just getting started . As the founder of Ground Wellbeing and a respected spa industry veteran , Crowley has created an award-winning wellness brand that offers carefully curated products designed with the aim of providing relief for challenges including anxiety , sleep issues and IBS . Her thoughtful , hands-on approach and clear passion for women 's health ensure the brand resonates deeply with consumers . It 's no surprise the products are now available at some of the world 's leading spas . With such an unwavering commitment to improving the wellbeing of others , Crowley looks set to have one of the most successful wellness brands to come out of Ireland . <h> ARTS <h> By Gemma Tipton and Nadine O'Regan <h> Ella Bertilsson <h> Artist <p> Ella Bertilsson . Photograph courtesy Temple Bar Gallery and Studios <p> Bertilsson 's art is always different , from a pop-up nail bar to a multicoloured cardboard cut-out landscape inspired by the banks of the river Moy . The linking theme is how she blurs the line between ordinary and extraordinary , and delves into those moments , large or small , that shape and define us . Collaboration , connection , joy and intimacy are threads in her work , which is also inspired by her two decades working in restaurants . Last year was incredibly busy for the award-winning artist , who moved to Ireland from her native Sweden in 2003 . Bertilsson sees studio and domestic accommodation as big challenges that will continue to face artists in 2025 , but she remains upbeat . Her plans this year include a show in one of Dublin 's most exciting new spaces , The Horse ; a live performance with ? ine Phillips in Castlebar ; and development of work for a major installation at the Temple Bar Gallery , where she has a studio . <h> Keara Simonsen <h> Artist <p> Keara Simonsen <p> Keara Simonsen has just graduated from Ulster University in Belfast , where she is currently based . Her work is showing at the RHA as part of this year 's RDS Visual Arts Awards , where she also picked up the RDS Members Art Fund Award . She was born in Canada and is of Irish and Filipino descent and makes documentary-based work looking at identity , family , diaspora and urban decay . Living with cerebral palsy " has n't explicitly come up in my work yet " , she says , " but I know that it informs all of my work , whether conscious or not . Sometimes we can pour parts of ourselves into our art that we are n't even aware of . " It is that openness to experience that makes her work so strong . She finds parallels between her exploration of the Filipino Tagalog language and the modern context of the Irish language . " The idea of being disconnected from one 's own culture and heritage is something many people can relate to . " The recognition that comes with the Radar and RDS Art Awards has been huge : " It really makes going through a few tough years with my art worthwhile . I have never felt so passionate about it . " <h> Garrett Carr <h> Writer <p> Garrett Carr <p> Garrett Carr 's last book , The Rule of the Land , a nonfiction portrait of the Irish Border got , according to the writer , " a lot of attention as it was published just as the turmoil of Brexit began " . This year sees the publication of his debut novel , which has been three years in the writing . Carr says the fishing community of Killybegs , Co Donegal , had been in his mind for a long time . " Fishing families and communities are strikingly absent from Irish writing . So I took it on . I felt I could , as these are my people ; I am the son of a fisherman . " Carr , who is based in Belfast , wanted " to make ordinary lives extraordinary . Fiction was the best way to handle it -- the novel features drama both on land and at sea -- but there is a lot of my early life in the novel . " A number of publishers took the bait , and The Boy from the Sea is debuting in eight different languages . It will be published here by Picador in February . " I 'm told the book is often funny , which is good as that 's what I was aiming for , " says Carr . These next months will see him on the promotional trail , and getting down to his next novel . <h> Catherine Airey <h> Writer <p> Catherine Airey . Photograph : Teri Pengilley/Penguin Random House <p> Few debut novelists arrive into the publishing world with the kind of advance praise that dual Irish-British national Catherine Airey has garnered . Airey 's first novel , Confessions , sold in a 24-hour , six-figure pre-empt to Viking and will be the publisher 's lead title when it arrives in late January . Read the propulsive and utterly captivating first 100 pages , and you 'll see the appeal : Airey has shades of the American novelists Donna Tartt and Jeffrey Eugenides in her style , but her plotting brings her from New York to Ireland and then back again . The narrative begins on the morning of September 11th , 2001 . Sixteen-year-old Cora Brady has just dropped a tab of acid when she learns that two planes have hit the Twin Towers , where her father works . Left orphaned in New York , when her mother 's sister contacts her to offer her a home in Donegal , Cora decides to get on the flight . Airey , brought up in England in a family of mixed English-Irish descent , traces the lives of several generations in the book , much of which she wrote in west Cork . She wants to speak to the " particular sort of loneliness of the immigrant " . <h> Alessandra Azeviche <h> Dancer and Capoeirista <p> Alessandra Azeviche in Terra . Photograph : Szymon Lazewski <p> Azeviche hails from Bahia , Brazil , home to the largest African diasporic population . She moved to Ireland in 2015 , and has worked and collaborated with Irish and international choreographers . She is a board member of Dublin Dance Festival and associate artist with THISISPOPBABY . With her dance group Quilombo Terra , her work is made to echo the resilience and beauty of indigenous communities , and explore themes of counter-colonisation . " I believe in the power of art to drive social change and uplift marginalised communities , " she says . Azeviche 's debut solo show , Terra , sold out at the Dublin Fringe in 2024 , and she plans to tour it in 2025 . " It holds an important message about how migration , the environment and indigenous wisdom are all interconnected . " She is now based in Wicklow . She says that " living as an artist is both exciting and terrifying " , and " it requires courage from our institutions and investors , because great work takes time , love and resources . In my life , work and dreams go hand in hand . I frequently find it difficult to separate my desire to create a positive impact in others ' lives from my professional ambitions . " <h> ENTREPRENEURSHIP &amp; TECH <h> By Ciara O'Brien <h> Cormac Chisolm , Patrick Guiney-Fox and Darren Britton <h> DevAlly <p> Accessibility is becoming an increasingly important topic in the tech sector , and rightly so . But in 2025 , that is going to take on a new urgency . The European Accessibility Act , which is due to come into effect by the end of June 2025 , will require certain categories of consumer products and services , including ecommerce , banking , telecoms , transport services and audio visual media , to be accessible . That is where DevAlly comes into the picture . The company was cofounded by Cormac Chisolm and Patrick Guiney-Fox , and its compliance management platform makes it easier for businesses to incorporate accessibility into their products as they are building them , assess how accessible their product is and identify what steps they need to take to be compliant with the new legislation . And it is getting attention on the international stage ; the company was recently named as one of the final three start-ups in Helsinki summit Slush 's pitch event . <h> Akhil Voorakkara , Colm O'Brien , Jamie Wedderburn and Will O'Brien <h> Ulysses Ecosystem Engineering <p> When it comes to carbon sinks , seagrass is up there with the most effective , capturing carbon from the atmosphere up to 35 times faster than tropical rainforests . Restoring ocean habitats , therefore , should be an important consideration for those who are trying to fight climate change . Ulysses Ecosystem Engineering , established in 2023 , has built drones that can be used to automate ocean habitat restoration . The drones collect seeds from healthy donor meadows , replanting them in areas where seagrass has been lost , monitoring its growth . The system means seagrass can be replanted at a tenth of the cost of comparable systems , and also make the projects larger and faster . The company recently raised a funding round to help it develop its machinery further , and grow existing and new projects . New laws that mandate large-scale restoration , such as the EU 's Nature Restoration Law , are also expected to drive demand for its services . It will be a " multi-decade endeavour , " says O'Brien . <h> Olivia Humphreys <h> Athena <p> Olivia Humphreys with the Athena portable scalp cooling device <p> When it came to solving a problem , inventor Olivia Humphreys chose one that had hit close to home . Humphreys had seen first-hand the impact that undergoing cancer treatment had on her mother , particularly when it came to the scalp-cooling therapy used to try to limit hair loss during chemotherapy . The University of Limerick graduate created Athena , a device that makes the scalp-cooling treatment mobile , cheaper and more flexible , so patients can start the treatment outside the hospital and cut down the time they must spend on wards . Humphreys took her invention to the James Dyson Awards , and was named regional winner for Ireland before advancing to success at the finals . She is also the first Irish inventor to have scooped the top prize since the awards began in 2006 . <h> Dipeche Sharma and James Kelly <h> Agilepitch <p> Dipeche Sharma and James Kelly <p> You ca n't get away from AI these days . It 's the hottest trend in the tech industry , and it is seeping into every part of our lives , even if we do n't realise it . But there 's more to it than asking ChatGPT funny questions , or interacting with an automated customer service bots . AI can take over some of the more repetitive tasks we currently have to endure . James Kelly and Dipeche Sharma are cofounders of Agilepitch , an AI platform that automates those tasks that slow down the process of closing a deal in software sales . The cofounders met at a start-up event , and realised they had a similar vision : bringing sales enablement and AI together . With Agilepitch , companies get a centralised platform for documents that acts as the source of correct information for all its sales-related collateral , integrating with existing technology such as the communications platforms used by the company . It then uses AI to " learn " about the client company , without any manual transfer of data . Agilepitch is targeting those selling B2B enterprise software as its potential market , with plans for a potential seed round in the future . <h> Aisling and Mark Kirwan <h> Positive Carbon <p> Positive Carbon was founded by Mark and Aisling Kirwan . Photograph : Mark Stedman <p> The issue of food waste is still on the menu -- or at least it should be . According to the EPA , Ireland generated 750,000 tonnes of food waste in 2022 , around 146kg per person and higher than the EU average of 130kg . Positive Carbon is aiming to tackle one source of waste : commercial kitchens . Its system uses high-tech sensors to track , trace and ultimately eliminate food waste . The company was established by Aisling and Mark Kirwan in 2020 , and its technology is already in use in a number of businesses , including the Dalata Hotel Group and Radisson Blu . It is a fully automated system with reporting dashboards that allow kitchen staff , operation teams , and management to review daily , weekly and monthly waste reports . The company , which raised funding last year , has now begun expanding in the UK . <h> ENVIRONMENT <h> By Joanne Hunt <h> Kevin Wallace <h> New Leaf Urban Farmers <p> Kevin Wallace <p> Kevin Wallace uses Korean Natural Farming techniques to manage his two-acre micro farm in Bruff , Co Limerick . The approach means capturing microbes from pristine soil , culturing and fermenting them to improve the microbiome of the land where he grows vegetables and salad greens . " The microbes are at least 1,000 years old and we are introducing them to soil that is often deteriorated by tilling and chemicals . We are building the soil up to be like the forest floor . " The emphasis is on minimal soil disturbance . This enhances soil fertility and biology to grow more nutrient-dense food . " There is a whole network of microbiome underneath -- if you are tilling your soil , you are killing the microbes , " says Wallace . It 's the microbes that create fertility . " You 're not artificially fertilising your plants because when you do , they grow too quickly . You do n't get enough flavour or trace elements . People have forgotten what vegetables taste like , " he says . " We are blessed with a temperate climate . We can grow anything in Ireland , but we need to produce food ethically and sustainably . Farming has been pushed to an industrial scale , but you ca n't use farming industrially on nature . It does n't work . " <h> Mary Fleming <p> Mary Fleming wants to tackle clothing waste locally , before it becomes a global problem . Confronted by the dark side of fast fashion on a trip to Kenya , she founded community-based not-for-profit ChangeClothes.org . " You see those pictures of big clothing piles and you do n't know what to do about it . We 're trying to provide a positive , fun and affordable solution , " says Fleming . At the ChangeClothes.org studio on Thomas Street , Dublin , shoppers can swap their second-hand clothes for tokens they can then trade for items " new to them " . " The special thing is we only have seven people in at a time , so there 's a great sense of satisfaction in seeing your clothes go to someone else , " says Fleming . " There 's a community buzz . " ChangeClothes.org offers free repair cafes and corporate and community workshops . It will welcome four trainees to work on upcycling textile waste into homewares this year . " We try to reuse locally instead of exporting our problems to other countries , " says Fleming . " Our big goals for 2025 are to create a beautiful range of homewares , build an affordable clothing repair service and hopefully move to the city centre . That would be really exciting . " <h> Dr Eleanor Mullen <h> Specialist in the sustainable development of materials <p> Dr Eleanor Mullen <p> Growing up beside Killarney National Park , Dr Eleanor Mullen felt inspired by Irish wildlife to pursue a career that would help protect the environment . Aged seven she wrote to then taoiseach Bertie Ahern about deforestation . An interest in pollution led to a degree in physics from Trinity College Dublin , followed by a PhD there . " It was a big challenge for me as I am dyslexic , and at 12 years old , I could barely write , but I got there in the end , " says Mullen . She also founded Trinity 's Urban Garden . One of the most profound insights she gained was into the complex relationship between humanity 's demand for materials and its environmental impact . " The amount of chemicals used to produce a memory chip or mobile phone is vast , " she says . " Their weight is minute compared to the weight of the materials used to process them . Vast amounts of chemicals are used , causing huge destruction environmentally . They gather at the poles , they cause mutations in wildlife . " Through research and policy , she wants to create a different future . " It 's critically important to integrate sustainable practices , mainly green chemistry principles , right from the start of the design process . A growing economy is important , but it needs to be sustainable growth that does n't impact the environment or global health . We need to carefully manage ecosystems . Ireland has so much potential in this area . " <h> Dr Ola L ? kken Nordrum <h> Irish Doctors for the Environment <p> Dr Ola L ? kken Nordrum <p> That the climate and biodiversity crisis was never mentioned in his medical training was startling to Dr Ola L ? kken Nordrum . " The climate and nature crisis is the defining health emergency of the 21st century , " says the anaesthesiology trainee . " Our health is intrinsically linked to the natural world . Quite simply , no nature , no health . " Through Irish Doctors for the Environment , he and other medical professionals want to bring about change . " We need to transform commutes into opportunities for health , not pollution and frustration . A more plant-based diet is good for us and for the planet . We need to change the narrative , climate action is health action , " says Nordrum . He 's involved in work to reduce emissions from anaesthetic gases , but hospitals and processes need to be redesigned to reduce single use and plastic items , he says . " We need long-term , protected funding and dedicated staff in the healthcare system to make it more sustainable . " Globally , those who have contributed the least to the climate crisis will bear the brunt of its effects , he notes . " Ireland has very high emissions per capita and we have a moral obligation to support these countries . " <h> Sumaya Mohammed <h> Climate and human rights activist <p> Sumaya Mohammed . Photograph : Ruben Tapia/UCCTV <p> Cop29 was n't perfect , but it 's the forum we have for tackling the climate crisis , says Sumaya Mohammed . The law student at University College Cork was part of the college 's delegation to Baku , Azerbaijan . Mohammed says she was privileged to receive climate education at Cork Educate Together Secondary School . " Not to be dramatic , but it changed my life . It 's why a lot of my focus now is on education , education can change how you view the world . " There , she cofounded the Students Climate Action Network , organising climate protests in Cork to pressure government on climate action . Aged 16 , she attended Cop27 in Egypt , supported by Tr ? caire , and also advised on the Leaving Certificate Climate Action course . She is a member of Somalis for Sustainability . " I really hope that climate can become a main topic of conversation again as it was in 2019 , prior to the pandemic , " says Mohammed . " We have faced flooding in Cork and it is terrible , but it is nothing compared to the flooding people face in Somalia or what we saw in Spain . We must remember our privilege and that we can still change . There is still hope , we must keep fighting for it . " <h> FOOD &amp; WINE <h> By Corinna Hardgrave <h> ? ine Budds <h> Chef and advocate <p> Aine Budds <p> Few chefs have confronted the shadows of the hospitality industry with as much clarity and conviction as 24-year-old ? ine Budds . When she took the stage at Food on the Edge 2023 , her words about addiction in professional kitchens were both a wake-up call and a beacon of hope . In a culture steeped in late nights and unchecked behaviours , Budd 's honesty challenged the status quo and highlighted the need for reform . Now pursuing a master 's in gastronomy and food studies at TU Dublin , Budds is combining academic rigour with hard-earned insights from years in fine dining , including stints at Gr ? inne O'Keefe 's Mae and Niall Davidson 's Allta . Having rebuilt her life after entering rehab at 22 , she is determined to support young chefs , advocating for healthier practices and greater awareness around mental health and addiction in the industry . Budds 's recent speaking engagements , including Salesforce , reflect her growing role as an advocate . Thoughtful , articulate , and unafraid to speak hard truths , she is far more than a chef : she 's a catalyst for change . <h> Anna Hevers <h> Chef de partie , Goldie <p> Anna Hevers , chef de partie at Goldie , Cork . Photograph : David Jones <p> At 27 , Anna Hevers is one of the most exciting young chefs in Ireland . After studying hospitality at Shannon College , she earned a scholarship to Le Cordon Bleu in London , where she specialised in pastry . London 's culinary scene became her training ground , with stints at Clare Smyth 's Core and the Ottolenghi kitchens . In 2022 , Hevers returned home to Cork and joined the team at Goldie , a Michelin Bib Gourmand restaurant led by chef Aishling Moore , which specialises in fish and a full-catch approach to sustainable cooking . As a chef de partie , she operates across the kitchen but has a particular flair for pastry and working with seasonal , locally sourced produce . This year she was a finalist in the Euro-Toques Young Chef competition . Hevers is also developing a website to explore food writing but remains firmly focused on growing her skills at Goldie , where her potential is already turning heads . <h> Angelo Vagiotis <h> Head chef , The Pullman <p> Angelo Vagiotis , head chef at the Pullman Restaurant <p> Angelo Vagiotis may not yet be a household name , but he is no stranger to the Michelin spotlight . A Greek-born chef with a globe-trotting resume that includes Noma and Manresa , he was part of chef Vincent Crepel 's opening team at Terre in Castlemartyr , Co Cork , which landed two Michelin stars in 2024 . Now Vagiotis is setting his sights on replicating that success at Glenlo Abbey 's Pullman Restaurant in Galway . The Pullman is no ordinary setting -- it operates within two original Orient Express carriages , offering a unique dining experience . The restaurant has closed for a refurbishment and will be reopening in March with a tasting menu . Every detail will be carefully considered , down to the 1960s vintage crockery . Joining him are two key members of the Terre team : Shauna Murphy , Euro-Toques Young Chef of the Year 2023 , and Linda Sergidou , who was the head pastry chef . Vagiotis is making no secret of his ambitious plans -- to land a Michelin star for The Pullman . <h> Ciara Ohartghaile <h> Baker and food writer , Ursa Minor Bakehouse &amp; School <p> Ciara Ohartghaile <p> Ciara Ohartghaile has transformed the food scene in Ballycastle , Co Antrim , with Ursa Minor , where she uses the finest local ingredients , from stone-ground Irish flours to foraged produce . Inspired by New Zealand 's vibrant food culture , she returned home in 2011 with her husband , Dara , to bake the bread they could n't find locally . From market stalls to a pop-up , they built Ursa Minor into a thriving space celebrated for exceptional sourdough , patisserie and community spirit . The cookery school , which opened this year , offers classes delving into bread , pastry , and sustainability -- including " Soil to Sow " , exploring food 's impact on everything from soil health to our mood . Collaborative dinners have brought renowned chefs like Danni Barry , Dennis Cotter and Jess Murphy to Ballycastle , and she plans to host more events . Most recently , Ohartghaile picked up the award for Best Food Blog at the recent Irish Food Writers ' Awards , for her Substack , Gorse , which captures the rhythm and nuances of seasonal living on the Antrim coast , from food to nature . <h> Laure Kwaczewski <h> Sommelier , Chapter One <p> Laure Kwaczewski <p> Kwaczewski is on a clear trajectory to becoming one of Ireland 's leading sommeliers . Her introduction to wine came not in her native France , where she lived in Paris , Bordeaux , and the south , but in New Zealand . A three-year stint there sparked her fascination , thanks to rigorous wine training in the bar where she worked . Returning to Europe , she honed her focus , earning WSET Level 3 and the Court of Master Sommeliers Level 2 certifications . She now plans to study for the Advanced Sommelier qualification , a two-year commitment with a daunting 25 per cent pass rate . Since joining two-Michelin-star Chapter One in Dublin as a junior sommelier , Kwaczewski has thrived in its exacting environment , with a highly skilled team and weekly training sessions . Her enthusiasm extends beyond the restaurant , with active involvement in the Irish Guild of Sommeliers and a speaking slot at their recent Sommit event . Kwaczewski plans to stay immersed in the world of wine , with ambitions to potentially manage beverage programmes on a broader scale . <h> MUSIC <h> By Kate Demolder <h> Chubby Cat <p> Chubby Cat . Photograph : Bryony Coles <p> Twenty-seven-year-old Claire Doran , known by the stage name Chubby Cat , boasts an individuality not regularly seen in the industry . Hailing from Cork , but now firmly planted in the Belfast music scene , Chubby Cat has already been making waves in Ireland with her riveting electropop singles , Not a Vibe , Big Dog Barking ( an earworm that was Choice Prize-nominated for Irish Song of the Year ) and Quiet ( which was nominated as a Single of the Year for the Northern Irish Music Prize ) . Immersive , funky and uniquely fun , her music evokes a fantasy of modern adolescence -- almost as if to suggest : " Life 's worth living , let 's get weird . " She recently represented Ireland at ESNS Eurosonic in the Netherlands , took home Best Artist at Ireland Music Week and blew the roof off the Saturday night at Other Voices . As for next year ? She has many plans ( " none of which can be shared yet " ) , but lucky for us , it involves touring and making us feel alive . <h> Qbanaa <p> Qbanaa <p> Few boast performance prowess like Cuban-Irish artist Qbanaa , the self-titled " Spanglish " artist whose honey-dipped sound and breathtaking stage presence could convince anyone that she was born for this . Already a big player on the underground Irish scene , Qbanaa is exactly what the industry is crying out for today ; utter and bona fide authenticity . Since the release of her debut single , Truth and Desire , in 2022 , she has achieved critical success in Ireland and in the UK , with her track Best Time climbing to 34 on the International Irish Radio charts and 3 on the Breakers Chart , where she was the only independent artist featured . In 2024 she toured Europe and Canada with Ruby Waters , opened for Buena Vista Social Club All-Stars in a sold-out show at the Cork Opera House , recorded Latin-inspired arrangements in RT ? ' s Studio 8 and attended the exclusive Anderson.Paak x Jameson songwriting retreat in Cork . Inspired by Erykah Badu , Kali Uchis and Anastacia , Qbanaa 's world is sultry , powerful , bilingual and immersive . And with new tracks Demons in the Liffey and Best Time , she proves her worth again and again . <h> Ezra Williams <p> Ezra Williams . Photograph : Colette Slater Barrass <p> It 's been a busy and exciting year for Ezra Williams , the Wicklow-born , Cork-based artist whose album Supernumeraries was nominated for the RT ? Choice Music Prize -- no mean feat for an artist aged just 22 . For the event , they played Vicar Street with the likes of Lankum and CMAT ( " a dream come true " ) and have since kept themselves busy playing the likes of Secret Sessions and Gig for Gaza in Whelan 's , as well as launching an EP , Socks , in April . Their summer performance schedule took them from the Jameson Circle at All Together Now to Fishtown at Electric Picnic to We 've Only Just Begun in Whelan 's , while their winter set-up centred mostly on playing intimate sets in Plam ? s in Galway city and Women In Trade We Trust at the Pavilion in Cork . And that 's all while attending college at the Crawford College of Art and Design . Williams is influenced by artists such as Elliott Smith and Fiona Apple , and their soft indie rock is rich with meaning . It 's no surprise then , that their 2020 track My Own Person was chosen to feature in Netflix 's coming-of-age mega hit Heartstopper . Here 's hoping for more introspective lyricism and moody in 2025 . <h> Becky McNeice <p> Becky McNeice <p> Songwriter and producer Becky McNeice , otherwise known as Dr Becks , is an artist whose integrity and dedication to her craft are abundantly obvious . The 24-year-old from Belfast creates unique tracks , drawing on her composition background and a big emotional palette . Deemed alternative pop by the masses , but actually more genreless as time goes on , her work mixes catchy lyrics with brooding , effortless melodies . McNeice first gained traction in 2022 for her single Lost Days , a track that was picked up by Spotify editorial playlists as well as put on playlists from Vogue and H&amp;M , and her most recent track , Alive , a collaboration with fellow Belfast producer Eulogy , could live life on a series score as easily as it could be the soundtrack to an introspective walk . In 2024 , her track All My Love , hit 100,000 streams , she played her first festival , co-headlined a show with Still Searching for Sound of Belfast , got her first production credit with Kiing Sequence 's track Stay Right ? and was nominated for the BBC Artist of the Year Award at the NI Music Prize . Next year sees McNeice release her debut EP , which will feature myriad of still-under-wraps Irish collaborations . <h> Moio <p> Moio <p> Moio has been making waves recently as part of the Fade Street-headquartered Chamomile Records , a collective featuring Aby Coulibaly and Moio 's older brother Monjola . The group write , produce and host events , during which some of Ireland 's most exciting artists showcase their work . This creativity clearly suits Moio , whose own musical prowess is getting stronger and more prone to experimentation . Following the initial release of his upbeat and captivating debut single , Sunbeaming , in January 2023 , the Dublin native slowed it down with his second single release , Open Your Eyes , showcasing a range that appears only to be growing in depth . This year , apart from a brief feature on a Monjola track and an impressive Trinity Ball gig , he has spent his time learning , creating and exploring new sounds , eschewing all genres and tending towards honesty and rawness . As he gears up for a big 2025 , he remains mysterious : " I wo n't give much away right now , but I have a lot of gigs coming up , as well as an EP coming early in 2025 . It 's a different sound to what people are used to -- I 'm really excited for what 's to come . " <h> SPORT <h> By Malachy Clerkin <h> James Madden <h> Gaelic football <p> With so many of Dublin 's big players from their All-Ireland-winning years calling time this winter , Dessie Farrell will need to replenish the stocks as the new year dawns . One potential candidate is James Madden , the 25-year-old who has spent the past six seasons playing Aussie Rules . Madden was a dual player at underage level and won a Leinster football medal with Dublin before leaving for Brisbane in 2018 . In his six seasons down under , he was never quite able to establish himself as a frontline player , featuring in just 13 games overall for the Lions . The Ballyboden player finished up with his AFL club after they won the 2024 Grand Final . Madden , known for his explosive pace , was predominantly a defender in Aussie Rules but could be called up for the Dubs as a roving player around the middle third of the pitch . The record of AFL returnees has been pretty mixed but Dublin could dearly do with Madden hitting the ground running . <h> Erin King <h> Rugby <p> Erin King . Photograph : Travis Prior/Inpho <p> After a long period in the wilderness , 2024 gave at least a few hints that Irish women 's rugby might be back on an upward curve . Finishing third in the Six Nations was decent , beating New Zealand in September was fantastic . Most important of all , a clutch of talented new faces arrived on the scene , chief among them Erin King . Born in Australia , her family moved to Co Wicklow when she was 12 , and the flanker has progressed through the ranks , making four senior appearances in 2024 in 15s , as well as being a member of the Sevens team at the Olympics . Her two tries against New Zealand in the WXV1 game announced her as a serious arrival on the scene and 2025 looks set to be the year in which she grows into one of Ireland 's signature players . She has already won the World Rugby Breakthrough Player of the Year Award and can kick on along with the rest of a very promising Ireland team . <h> Mark O'Mahony <h> Soccer <p> Mark O'Mahony . Photograph : Morgan Treacy/Inpho <p> This promises to be a key year in the development of one of Ireland 's brightest young attacking talents . The former Cork City player has been in England for a couple of seasons now , first in the renowned Brighton academy and now on loan a half an hour over the road in Portsmouth . O'Mahony turns 20 on January 14th , which makes it likely that the next 12 months will tell us so much about his future in the game . On the face of it , he has all the tools to prosper -- deadly close control , an eye for goal , well able to hold up ball in tight circumstances . But football is the hardest professional sport in which to establish a foothold and time is ticking . Portsmouth look doomed to spend the rest of the season in a relegation scrap at the foot of the Championship . It 's not the most glamorous posting in the game but if O'Mahony can make waves doing it , he will have earned himself a springboard to a higher level . <h> Sara Byrne <h> Golf <p> Sara Byrne . Photograph : Ben Brady/Inpho <p> After starring in Europe 's long overdue victory in the Curtis Cup in 2024 -- they had n't beaten the Americans since 2016 -- Sara Byrne immediately joined the professional ranks . Her first few months getting out and earning a pay cheque have gone pretty well , all in all . She made four of her first five cuts and even got herself into contention for a win in the Catalatyud Ladies Open in October . After a stunning 68 in the third round , she took a one-shot lead into the Sunday in Spain , before slipping to a perfectly understandable 75 on the final day . She finished sixth but unquestionably gave notice of her promise along the way . Byrne ended 2024 the Friday before Christmas by securing her Ladies European Tour card for the coming year with a final round 67 at Q-School in Morocco . She will be one of four Irish women with full time cards on the LET tour in 2025 . <h> Sam Ewing <h> Horse Racing <p> Sam Ewing with Romeo Coolio . Photograph : Morgan Treacy/Inpho <p> With the last of the previous generation of jockeys all retired now , there is space for a new breed to come along and establish themselves . Davy Russell hung on until the 2024 Cheltenham Festival but now that he is out of the picture , someone like Sam Ewing is bound to flourish , thanks to his attachment to the prolific Gordon Elliott yard . Ewing notched his first Cheltenham victory in 2024 aboard Stellar Story , the 33/1 Albert Bartlett winner . Since then , he has gone from strength to strength and looks to have established himself as first among equals after Jack Kennedy in Elliot 's yard . As long as he stays injury-free , the 20-year-old Antrim jockey will get lots of opportunities throughout the season . Elliot has never been afraid to trust youth -- Kennedy has been riding winners for him since his mid-teens . Kennedy 's latest leg break is a huge setback for a jockey who is no stranger to them . Ewing will take no pleasure in his misfortune but the opportunity for him to flourish in his absence is clear for all to see . <h> FILM &amp; TELEVISION <h> By Donald Clarke <h> Derek Ugochukwu <h> Writer-director <p> Derek Ugochukwu <p> The Nigerian-born writer-director Derek Ugochukwu , a chatty fellow with unmistakable drive , studied screenwriting at D ? n Laoghaire Institute of Art , Design and Technology before going on to make a series of eclectic shorts including To All My Darlings , Pediment and Nay Day . Screen Ireland named him for its inaugural Spotlight development scheme in 2020 . You 're Not Home , a tale of a teenager in direct provision , made it all the way to South by Southwest Festival at Austin in 2023 . " We made a small film with passion and dedication , " he says of that experience . " That was an eye opener . One of the things I learned was to not hold back . " In 2025 the big league beckons . " We are developing a feature with Samson films with David Collins as executive producer , " he says . The film is a thriller focusing on " underrepresented minorities " . After that he has plans for a project drawing on his dad 's experiences during the Biafran war of 1967 . <h> Peter Claffey <h> Actor <p> Peter Claffey <p> Peter Claffey , a hugely tall Portumna man , who played for Ireland 's under-20 rugby team and had a professional contract with Connacht Rugby , looks to have made the transition to acting with no obvious disfigurement . " I think so , " he says , laughing . " Well , maybe I have n't . Maybe that 's just arrogance . I have a decent bit of cauliflower ear on one side . " Early in 2024 , he was cast in the lead role -- the " hedge knight " Dunk -- for HBO 's upcoming epic A Knight of the Seven Kingdoms . The Game of Thrones spin-off derives from a trilogy by the sequence 's creator , George RR Martin . " It 's set before Game of Thrones and just after House of the Dragon , " he says . Much of 2024 was spent lugging swords about those bits of the North where the original series was shot . Claffey , who also appeared in Vikings : Valhalla , will soon be unavoidable . " It 's a privilege to be able to bring it all to life , " he says . <h> Sadhbh Malin <h> Playwright and actor <p> Sadhbh Malin <p> Sadhbh Malin has already established herself as a polymath of some note . An adroit playwright , she cofounded the Philomena theatre company , which in 2023 staged her play In Heat at the Dublin Fringe Festival . She had a role in the TV adaptation of Sally Rooney 's Conversations with Friends and appeared in a revival of Marina Carr 's Portia Coughlan at London 's Almeida Theatre . It remains to be seen if that will prepare her for the Outlander superfans . Sadhbh is to play Jocasta -- young version of Maria Doyle Kennedy 's character -- in Blood of My Blood , upcoming prequel to that hugely successful Caledonian time-travel series . " There are so many different storylines , and they all go into such really exciting places , " says Malin , who is enjoying a writing residency at the Pavillion Theatre in her native D ? n Laoghaire . " I do n't know what I can really say about it . " Yes , be careful . Those superfans hate spoilers . <h> Jeda de Br ? <h> Director and writer <p> Jeda de Br ? <p> " My grandad taught me how to edit when I was 14 , " says Jeda de Br ? . " I was obsessed ever since . " She did , indeed , make her way to film school , but de Br ? has , over the past decade , been equally involved in theatre . She directed Katie McCann 's The Grimm Tale of Cinderella for Smock Alley . She collaborated on 14 Voices From the Bloodied Field for the Abbey . Meanwhile , she worked on acclaimed shorts such as Procession with Olwen Fou ? r ? and -- recent winner at London Irish Film Festival -- the nimble Naked Lights . Now the two strands come together as she moves on to a feature adaptation of her own play Tryst , co-written with Finbarr Doyle , for the busy Treasure Entertainment . The film , she says , " speaks of contemporary relationships as well as sex in modern Ireland " . But with laughs . " I do n't think it 's going to have any kind of grimness , " she says . " There will still be humour in there as well . " <h> Megan McGinley <h> Musician and actor <p> Megan McGinley <p> I catch Megan McGinley , virtuoso fiddler and now actor , on a coach in deepest South Carolina . She is from Gaoth Dobhair in the Donegal Gaeltacht , and is on tour with a popular Irish music and dance show called A Taste of Ireland . Later this year , we can enjoy her first acting role : as a young musician getting to grips with her talent in Lance Daly 's hotly anticipated Trad . " I wrote Trad to be set in Connemara but after meeting Megan it seemed obvious that I should relocate the movie to Donegal , " says Daly , director of Kisses and Black 47 . " I ca n't wait for audiences to see her leading what is shaping up to be a unique and timely take on young people playing Irish music . " McGinley seems calm about it all . " I 've never even done a play in school , " she says . " So , it was a shock for everyone when they found out I was doing it . " <h> ACTIVISM <h> By Una Mullally <h> Mothers Against Genocide <p> Mothers Against Genocide at a protest at the US embassy in Dublin . Photograph : Dara Mac D ? naill <p> One of the most impactful groups to emerge from the vast network of grassroots activism protesting against Israel 's bombardment of Gaza , its violence in the West Bank , and bombing of Lebanon , is Mothers Against Genocide . In late November and December alone , their actions included gathering at the RDS count centre in Dublin alongside Pals for Palestine , Teachers for Palestine , Apartheid Free Arts , Irish Creative Arts Therapists for Palestine , and Irish Healthcare Workers for Palestine , a protest in Belfast to boycott Coca-Cola , participating in the National March for Palestine in Dublin , and a Solstice Solidarity Souk in Dublin 8 . Agile , enthusiastic and dedicated , the collective brings creativity , empathy and urgency to the movement . Fundraisers , protests , demonstrations , letter-writing , activism on social media and on the streets , Mothers Against Genocide illustrate the diversity of the movement across Ireland , but also the reality that it is to a significant degree , a women-led movement . <h> Se ? n Ronayne <p> Se ? n Ronayne in Birdsong . Photograph : Chris Maddaloni <p> Ornithologist , author , field recordist and public speaker Ronayne has already been the subject of a feature-length documentary by Kathleen Harris , and his memoir , Nature Boy , emerged victorious at 2024 's Irish Book Awards . In 2025 , he is on track to finally complete his project of recording the birdsong of every species on the island of Ireland . It 's difficult to think of anyone in recent memory who has done more to impress upon the public the importance of birdlife in Ireland , and the significance of our biodiversity loss . Ronayne 's approach is also an inspiring one , using the wonder of nature to activate a love for what we have and what we losing . His public talks often leave audiences moved to tears . An upcoming project involves a focus on the common whitethroat species . As a recording artist , he has released two albums of wildlife recordings and natural soundscapes . In 2025 his profile and impact will continue to grow . <h> Irish musicians <p> CMAT , DJ Prova ? of Kneecap and Ian Lynch of Lankum <p> Upon accepting a Rolling Stone UK Awards for album of the year at the end of 2024 , Carlos O'Connell of Fontaines DC was emphatic in his speech in support of Palestinian freedom and against Binyamin Netanyahu 's far-right government . He 's not alone , obviously . Across the movement , Irish musicians have risen to the challenge of activism through song and celebrity . The list is almost endless , but R ? is ? n El Cherif , Kneecap , The Mary Wallopers , Lankum , Pillow Queens , Fontaines DC , Damien Dempsey , Christy Moore , CMAT and Eoghan ? Ceannabh ? in have all been participating with impact . In electronic music and the club scene , there have been multiple fundraising gigs , from Beats for Gaza to Dance for Palestine . The diaspora is active too . In Berlin , Irish artist Julie Fogarty , aka Under Tears , has been the driving force behind the Gig for Gaza series there . Considering Ireland 's prominence in music globally , with multiple acts on incredible trajectories , the power of their voices is stretching far beyond performing their songs . <h> Hometree <p> Matt Smith , cofounder and CEO of Hometree <p> Over the past decade , Hometree has grown from a small community garden project to an increasingly large tree-planting initiative , education network and conservation project . Working to restore wild native Irish woodlands , Hometree has planted over 30,000 trees , and engaged hundreds of people in its education and reforestation programmes . Its board of trustees includes author Manch ? n Magan and pioneering surfer Dr Easkey Britton . Practical , inspiring , and motivated , Hometree is a fine example of what happens when people set out to really get things done to tackle the biodiversity crisis across Ireland . Its projects include supporting communities in Ireland 's Atlantic uplands , restoring Ireland 's temperate rainforests , the Farm-Forest Alliance , and purchasing sites for reforestation in Connemara , Ennistymon , Ballyfarney in Sligo , Gowlane in Cork , Illaun in Clare and Avoca in Wicklow . <h> Liberties SOS <p> Liberties SOS : Jack Caffrey and Abaigeal Meek <p> The discourse about the present state and immediate future of Dublin rarely centres on corporate gentrification as a negatively disruptive force . Abaigeal Meek and Jack Caffrey , who have lived in the Liberties for 20 years , have been exploring what they characterise as " gentrification on steroids " in Dublin 8 . Using an Instagram account , @thelibertiessos , they document the huge level of development in the area , which is changing the urban fabric of a historic core of Dublin . " For us , it 's about trying to visualise what we were seeing in the Liberties around luxury transient accommodation , " says Meek . " It 's our way of trying to make sense of it , to visually document it , and connecting with people who feel similarly ... We were n't seeing the nuance around development represented in media , because when you critique this development , it 's seen as Nimbyism . As content-creators we 're unpicking what 's happening , and trying to making sense of things that are complex and difficult to understand , especially when development is always presented in such a positive way . " <h> ENTERTAINMENT <h> By Kate Demolder , Aoife Barry and Gemma Tipton <h> Fiona Frawley <h> Comedian <p> Fiona Frawley <p> Fiona Frawley is a whipsmart , fast-rising talent on the Irish comedy scene . Having played a smaller role to bigger names in recent years , Frawley 's star rose significantly in 2024 . She sold out two solo shows at Whelan 's , organised and performed at Cherry Comedy 's sold-out Gig for Gaza at Vicar Street , played Paddy Power Comedy Festival , All Together Now , Beyond the Pale and Kilkenomics and took the house down with her one-woman show Are You Mad At Me . In 2025 , she hopes to tour more around Ireland ( although perhaps not Greystones -- if you know , you know ) as well as deliver a few other gigs that can not be detailed just yet . Either way , watch this space , as it sounds like we have another exceptional Irish comic on our hands . <h> Ciar ? n Gaffney <h> Podcaster <p> Ciaran Gaffney <p> It 's been a big year for Limerick man Ciar ? n Gaffney , the founder of international storytelling night Seancho ? che -- -- the one that Paul Mescal and Andrew Scott have collaborated with . By way of the event 's monstrous popularity , Gaffney has flown all over the world -- -- from Berlin to Melbourne to Vancouver -- -- to harness the magic of the old Irish skill for a new , regularly non-Irish audience . ( Events have been held in English , Irish , Spanish and Dutch so far . ) Gaffney , an exceptional talent for creating safe spaces for people around him to flourish , also kick-started the brand 's first podcast this year , In Their Shoes . Guests so far have included activist Robbie Lawlor and Euphoria 's Maude Apatow , who both agreed to share stories that feel increasingly vulnerable -- a testament to Gaffney 's charm and grit . In 2025 Gaffney hopes to expand to some new countries -- -- Nigeria , Kenya , Mexico , Argentina and the UAE among them -- -- as well as season two of the podcast , more non-English events and a few more festivals . Details are still under wraps , but expect huge things in the future . <h> Ciara Berkeley <h> Actor and founder <p> Ciara Berkeley . Photograph : Steve Langan <p> Upon being dragged to an improv show earlier this year by a friend , I panicked , but I need n't have done , because Ciara Berkeley was at the helm . By way of her remarkable troupe Broad Strokes , of which she is founder , Berkeley led a floating narrative with ease , showing exactly why the collective were deserving of their Best Ensemble Award at the Dublin Fringe in 2023 . An actor by trade , Berkeley -- who , in 2024 , led her first feature film , Swing Bout , portrayed a young Eva in Bad Sisters and took on the role of Jane Fairfax in Emma at The Abbey -- boasts an undeniably bright future , one with plenty of under-wraps plans for 2025 . What is certain , though , is that her charisma , watchability and talent are obvious , even from the nosebleed seats . Her moment is coming , mark our words . <h> Kyla Cobbler <h> Comedian <p> Kyla Cobbler <p> Barcelona-based Irish comedian Kyla Cobbler has a huge Instagram fan base ( 284,000 followers and counting ) that she 's translated into an eager live audience . The Ballincollig native stands out thanks to her Cork accent , tattoos and skater style , and trades in deadpan , smart commentary about ageing , being sober , Irish life , sex and relationships . Some of her most popular videos include ones about having dyslexia and its impact on her education , her climate change conspiracy around women dying their hair , and the simple pleasures of making an Irish stew . Overall , she brings nostalgia from an Irish person abroad mixed with some sparklingly saucy anecdotes . She 's set to begin 2025 with a bang thanks to gigs at the Olympia Theatre ( already sold out ) and London 's Leicester Square Theatre in January . <h> Ultan Pringle <h> Actor and writer <p> Ultan Pringle . Photograph : Niamh Barry <p> Ultan Pringle , a founding member of wave-making young theatre collective LemonSoap , hails from Donegal , where he is writer in residence with An Grian ? n Theatre . With writing , directing and acting credits to his name , his work is marked by a brilliant balance of seriousness and wit , as seen in Boyfriends , which ran at Project in June 2024 . Another 2024 highlight was the release of audio drama Pistachio , starring the late Piper Laurie . " This Hollywood legend regaling me with stories of dating Ronald Reagan , befriending Tennessee Williams and being afraid of Bette Davis ? Heaven , " says Pringle . With a new play in development , and a tour of Boyfriends planned , he says one ambition is " to play a straight fella in 2025 ? . He is also very serious about the challenges artists are currently facing . " I know it may be unsexy to say , but despite real success and luck , I sometimes think it is impossible to survive at this . " So what keeps him going ? " The joy of making people laugh , or the exhilaration of challenging the audience with a moment that just sucks the air out of the room . And the ensemble , all of us coming together to create and challenge one another . That 's what I love and why I do it . "
