<h> As Trump takes office and its face popular dissatisfaction at home , the government in Tehran faces strategic choices <p> Iran 's regional role in the Middle East and vulnerability to a Trump presidency are coming into clearer focus as the Gaza ceasefire and hostage agreement come into effect . Iran is strategically weaker following the collapse of the Assad regime in Syria and Israel 's assault on Hizbullah in Lebanon . It is suffering from US and other economic sanctions . Internally it must decide how to head off popular dissatisfaction and whether speeding up its nuclear weapons programme is worth the external threats that would bring . <p> Iranian hawks around Trump have spoken openly about these issues . He himself refused to answer questions on whether he is contemplating military action against Iran 's nuclear facilities and whether that was a factor in his discussions with Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu ahead of the ceasefire deal that Trump insisted on . Targeting Iran is a long-standing Netanyahu objective and could now become more possible . <p> The clericalist regime there is having to adjust rapidly to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Masoud Pezeshkian an important role . His visit to Moscow last week to sign a strategic agreement with Russia is an important part of that . The two states ' recent cooperation to reduce sanctions and swap military equipment is reinforced . It backs up Iran 's oil sales to and parallel diplomatic engagement with China in an effort to broaden its alliances . Meanwhile , Pezeshkian 's efforts to reopen nuclear arms limitation talks with the European Union have encountered suspicions from France in particular . <p> This is a remarkably open and fluid period for the region 's future development . Trump is committed to resurrecting the Abraham accords negotiated in his first term whereby Arab states recognised Israel , and badly wants Saudi Arabia to join them . This is now politically impossible for the Saudis without a Palestinian state . <p> A grand diplomatic deal bringing these threads of policy together in coming months is possible to envisage . It would be far preferable to renewed war . But as the fragile Gaza ceasefire commences , the course of events remains unpredictable .
