<h> East Clare peace concert to have live link to Bethlehem <p> An East Clare documentary maker , who had commenced a short film on artists in Palestine prior to the most recent conflict , has called on the East Clare public to get behind this weekend 's concert in Scariff in aid of the children and families caught up in the war . Bonnie Boyle , who is one of the organisers of the ' East Clare for Peace in Palestine ' concert in Scariff GAA hall on Sunday night , said that Palestinian people she interviewed last year , during a visit there for filming of her documentary , are gripped by a fear that even they had not previously known . The ' East Clare for Peace in Palestine ' concert is a coming together of some of the best-known performers from the Scariff , Ogonnelloe , Whitegate , Mountshannon and Bodyke areas to create what promises to be a special night of peace and Christmas songs to raise funds for the Irish Emergency Alliance response to the ongoing horror unfolding in Gaza . The alliance comprises member agencies Action Aid , Christian Aid , Tr @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ International , whose emergency appeal is aimed , in particular , at providing immediate help to children and families affected by the atrocities and escalating humanitarian crisis . Speaking ahead of the concert , Bonnie explained that a key moment in it will be the bridging of the 5,000km or so between East Clare and Bethlehem as one of the people she interviewed will be sending a personal message directly to what 's expected to be a packed hall . " The situation out there is just horrific . We 're all seeing the images from Gaza and it 's difficult to comprehend that this is actually happening today , that innocent children , their parents and other loved ones are being attacked and killed in a region that 's a crossroads of faith for some of the world 's dominant religions . We 're hearing of children 's names being written on their arms so they can be identified should their homes or place of shelter get bombed , " she said . " The West Bank is also under siege , hundreds have been killed , thousands injured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there as well . In recent days we 've even read about the destruction of a Palestinian school built using Irish Aid funds in the West Bank . " This is what they are living with day to day . They 've gone from living under an apartheid system to living in fear of their lives . The attacks of October 7 last in Israel , in which 1,200 people were killed , were horrific however the response is just a continuation of shocking inhumanity . Over 17,000 people have been killed in Gaza and the West Bank since the war broke out . " Bonnie said that despite this daily fight for survival , the people there remain incredibly grateful for support and know that Ireland is very much behind them . " We told them that we were doing our bit in East Clare and while what we will manage to raise will be miniscule by comparison with the need , they 're so grateful for it , not least knowing there are people out there who are thinking of them . They 're particularly taken with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to raise money , " she said . The line-up for the concert , which will have John O'Brien as its musical director , includes the East Clare Community Choir , East Clare Musical Society , Jim O'Brien , Terry Cronin , Sarah King , Noel Hogan , Anna Cronin , Maeve O'Brien , Ger Treacy , Sandra O'Halloran , Noel Daly and Eugene Hogan . Tickets are available from Eventbrite.ie and in local shops such as Rodgers ' and Bane 's in Scarriff , McDermott 's in Whitegate , Josie Anne 's in Ogonnelloe and Treacy 's in Tuamgraney.
