<h> The week that was in international affairs : Trump is back , Zelenskyy invites India 's help <p> Welcome back to another edition of My Take 5 . Trump is back , Zelenskyy invites India 's help , European polls with an eye on Russia , Netanyahu fires his defence minister , and Bangladeshi Hindus continue to feel vulnerable . So let 's get to the hottest topics over the past week : Trump wins : Donald Trump pulled off a stunning victory in the US presidential polls to return to the White House after having lost the 2020 elections to Biden and facing a slew of cases , including being convicted of a felony in one . The fate of those cases and the outstanding sentencing is now up in the air given the US constitution 's conferment of immunity to sitting US presidents . That aside , Trump 's return certainly shakes up the geopolitical chessboard with many global actors congratulating the soon-to-be 47th US president while also " Trump-proofing " themselves . Trump has boasted that he would end wars , actions which would directly impact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particular , The Trump camp has been signaling for months that it would end military aid to Kyiv and force peace negotiations . There are two points here . First , it remains to be seen if Trump actually stops all aid to Ukraine . After all , Trump is the most mercurial president and can easily change his mind . And his political populism gives him the cover to make such flips . Plus , it was under the first Trump administration that Ukraine actually started receiving lethal military aid from the US . Therefore , there 's a possibility that Trump might change his mind if he is convinced of a commercial logic in continuing military supplies to Ukraine . <p> Second , it 's also possible that American aid might stop for Ukraine but weapons could flow under a new lend-lease agreement . That could see the US , for example , get the first right on Ukraine 's mineral resources . So there could be possible workarounds . Also , Ukraine 's President Zelenskyy is moving to a position where Ukraine may well be open to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strength , and based on Ukraine 's Peace Formula with firm , written , tangible security guarantees . The incoming Trump administration can potentially work with this . <p> Zelenskyy invites India 's help : A ministerial conference on the human dimension of Ukraine 's Peace Formula held in Montreal , Canada , last week saw over 45 countries sign a pledge in support of facilitating the return of all Ukrainian captives and detainees taken by Russia over the course of the war in Ukraine . In fact , Qatar , the Vatican , South Africa , Lithuania and UAE made specific pledges to aid in the return of deported Ukrainians . At least , 19,500 children have been confirmed abducted by Russia during the war . The real number is expected to be higher . The International Criminal Court has also issued arrest warrants over this crime . But till date less than 400 such children have been brought back . In many instances , these children have been forcibly placed with Russia 's ' foster families ' , even as the parents of these children continue to search @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them.In fact , in an exclusive interview with this writer last week , Ukrainian President Zelenskyy called on Indian PM Narendra Modi to use his influence with Russia 's Putin to help bring back at least 1,000 forcibly deported Ukrainian children from Russia . This is something that India can certainly help with since New Delhi has from Day 1 maintained that it is willing to do everything to facilitate peace in Ukraine and mitigate the humanitarian disaster there . <p> Modi has even directly raised the issue of the impact of the war on children with Putin . Therefore , it would make immense sense for India to join the humanitarian initiative to bring back Ukrainian children and participate in the international coalition working on this issue . New Delhi 's intervention can help save these children , reunite them with their families , and create a possible path to peace . European polls : Polls in Georgia , Lithuania and Moldova have thrown up mixed results . Huge protests have marked the post-poll situation in Georgia where the ruling Georgian Dream party was declared winner amid allegations by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demanding that these irregularities be investigated and fresh polls be held under international supervision . Georgia is certainly a frontline state in the strategic tussle between the West and Russia . The 2008 conflict between Georgia and Russia over two breakaway Georgian provinces was , in hindsight , a template for Moscow 's approach to post-Soviet republics . But a vast majority of Georgia 's population wants to be part of EU . However , Georgia 's accession process to the bloc has been put on hold because its current government has passed Russian-style laws , including one on ' foreign influence ' . Which explains the Georgian opposition 's suspicion in this election.Meanwhile , Lithuania 's polls have thrown up a change in government with the opposition Social Democratic Party emerging as the largest party in the new parliament . Lithuania is one of the countries most wary of Russia given that it shares a 275km border with the latter . Plus , Lithuania is also a top Nato defence spender -- allocating 3% of its GDP to defence -- and among the top three countries providing aid to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government of the Social Democratic Party has pledged to continue on this track and is expected to remain a strong supporter of Ukraine , albeit with some tweaks.In Moldova , presidential elections saw the return of pro-EU President Maia Sandu , again , among allegations of Russian attempts to influence the vote . Sandu 's opponent was backed by a pro-Russia party and Moldova 's presidential national security adviser has said that Moscow had launched massive interference operations in the polls . But Sandu prevailed , which would be a relief for the EU and boost Moldova 's candidacy for the bloc . Netanyahu fires Gallant : Israeli PM Netanyahu fired his defence minister Yoav Gallant , setting off protests in Tel Aviv and Jerusalem . The rift between Netanyahu and Gallant had been apparent for months given a divergence of approaches to Israel 's military operations in Gaza . Gallant and the Israeli army have long favoured winding down the Gaza operations to bring back remaining Israeli hostages still held in the Palestinian territory . But Netanyahu and his right-wing allies have been clear that the war will continue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ huge public frustration at Netanyahu for failing to bring back the remaining hostages and many believe that he is only prolonging the war -- which has since expanded to Lebanon -- to remain in power and ward off corruption cases against him . And with the US backing Israel to the hilt , Netanyahu seems to be getting away with his plan . But will the incoming Trump administration in Washington change this scenario -- Trump has promised to end wars -- is something that only time will tell . Bangladeshi Hindus attacked : Reports emerged of the minority Hindu community being attacked in the Bangladeshi city of Chittagong amid tensions over a Facebook post that criticised the ISKCON Hindu socio-religious organisation -- which some extremist sections in Bangladesh have accused of being an Indian agent . Clashes reportedly broke out between the Hindu community and Bangladeshi security forces in Chittagong . Ever since the ouster of the Sheikh Hasina government in August , Bangladeshi Hindus have felt vulnerable in that country and have faced attacks on their homes and commercial establishments . Hindus in Bangladesh have traditionally aligned with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supporters of the erstwhile regime . Add to this long-festering communal bias against the community , and Bangladeshi Hindus today are most unprotected they have been in years . True , Bangladesh 's interim government head Muhammad Yunus has appealed for communal harmony and protection of Hindus . But with radical forces in Bangladesh having gained ground since Hasina 's ouster , there seems to be little that Yunus can do . The international community , particularly the US , must compel the interim Bangladeshi administration to protect Bangladeshi minorities and rein in extremists .
