<h> Rights group calls for international force to protect Sudanese amid rampage by paramilitaries <p> PTI Updated : November 11 , 2024 22:11 IST <p> Cairo , Nov 11 ( AP ) A leading rights group on Monday called for an international force to protect civilians in war-torn Sudan amid reports that a notorious paramilitary group has killed dozens of civilians and committed widespread rapes during a rampage in a province neighbouring Khartoum . Sudan has been plunged into war for narly 19 months in a struggle for power between the military and the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces , which has been accused of atrocities in multiple areas where it has seized control . The Rapid Support Forces rampaged through the province of Gezira last month , attacking towns and villages . Human Rights Watch said the RSF has " killed , injured , and unlawfully detained scores of civilians and raped women and girls " in Gezira . It urged Britain to use its turn as president of the United Nations Security Council this month to push for UN action to deploy a mission to protect civilians in Sudan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Forces ' heinous attacks against civilians should end any lingering hopes that these crimes will stop without a strong global response , " said Mohamed Osman , HRW 's Sudan researcher . " The UN Security Council 's minimal action is clearly failing to protect civilians . " The war began in April 2023 when growing tensions between the military and RSF exploded into fighting in the capital Khartoum and around Sudan . More than 24,000 people have been killed and more than 14 million people -- about 30 per cent of the population -- have been driven from their homes , creating the world 's largest displacement crisis this year , according to the International Organisation for Migration , or IOM . Famine has struck some areas , and a cholera outbreak has killed more than 800 people and sickened 28,000 others . Gezira province , southeast of Khartoum , has been largely controlled by the RSF since December . In October , one of its commanders running the province , Abu Aqlah Keikel , defected and surrendered to the military . RSF fighters responded with a rampage through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civilians and sexually attacked and raped women and girls in multiple places , according to the U.N . and local groups . About 135,000 people have been forced to flee their homes since Oct. 20 , according to the IOM . Three Sudanese - two women and a young man - told The Associated Press that RSF fighters stormed their town , Tamboul , on October 22 , firing on civilians in their houses . They said they saw fighters shoot 12 men in the streets as they tried to escape . Many people , including women and girls , were detained , they said . " They went from house to house telling people to leave " and searching for people connected to Keikel , said one woman , Inaam Abu Gassim , speaking by phone from her shelter in nearby Qadarif province . At least 47 women and girls were raped around Tamboul , the Sudanese Doctors ' Union said . A 7-year-old girl bled to dead after she was raped , Dr. Yassar al-Besheri , a spokesman for the union , told the AP . In another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and 200 others wounded in late October , the union said . Human Rights Watch quoted a man from Sariha as saying that RSF fighters stopped him , his wife and three daughters as they fled their homes on October 22 . " One of the RSF soldiers looked at my youngest daughter , who is 15 , and said : Leave her so we can enjoy her , and you can leave . ' , " the 51-year-old man was quoted as saying . He and his family , including his daughter , managed to escape , HRW reported . In the city of al-Hilaliya , the union said at least 200 people died this month . At least two dozen were killed by RSF fighters . The rest reportedly died from torture , starvation and disease , it said . Sudan 's conflict has raged as global attention has been shifted over the past year to the Israel-Hamas war in Gaza , and recently to Lebanon where Israel launched a ground offensive against Hezbollah last month . Rights groups have repeatedly urged international powers to pressure Sudan 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the conflict . The United States and Saudi Arabia have led multiple rounds of talks between the military and the RSF , most recently in August , but all failed to establish a cease-fire . A senior US government official said the warring sides have been focusing their efforts on achieving military gains following the end of the rainy season . The Biden administration has been working with its allies in the region to get them back to the negotiating table , said the official who spoke on condition of anonymity in line with regulations . " So we are certainly trying actively with both African and Gulf partners , as well as European allies , and I think that we may or may not see something develop on that soon , " he said . ( AP ) PYPY <p> ( This story has not been edited by THE WEEK and is auto-generated from PTI )
