<p> WASHINGTON , Nov 27 : President Joe Biden has announced that Israel and Lebanon 's Hezbollah have accepted a US-brokered peace deal that is designed to be a " permanent cessation " of hostilities between the two sides . As part of the ceasefire , Israel will gradually withdraw its troops from Lebanon over the next 60 days , Biden said in his address to the nation from the White House on Tuesday , shortly after Israel 's Security Cabinet approved the accord . According to reports , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu presented to the Security Cabinet the agreement aimed at ending months-long fighting between Israel and the Iran-backed Hezbollah which was ignited by the Gaza conflict and has killed and displaced thousands . Biden said he spoke with Netanyahu and Lebanon 's Prime Minister Najib Mikati . " I 'm pleased to announce that their governments have accepted the United States ' proposal to end the devastating conflict between Israel and Hezbollah . I want to thank President Macron of France for his partnership in reaching this moment , " he said . " I 've directed my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to forge a ceasefire to bring the conflict between Israel and Hezbollah to a close . " Under the deal reached today , effective at 4:00 a.m. tomorrow local time , the fighting across the Lebanese-Israeli border will end . This is designed to be a permanent cessation of hostilities , " he said . Biden said what is left of Hezbollah and other terrorist organisations will not be allowed to threaten the security of Israel again . " Over the next 60 days , the Lebanese Army and the State Security Forces will deploy and take control of their own territory once again . Hezbollah terrorist infrastructure in southern Lebanon will not be allowed to be rebuilt , " he said . " Over the next 60 days , Israel will gradually withdraw its remaining forces and civilians on both sides will soon be able to safely return to their communities and begin to rebuild their homes , their schools , their farms , their businesses , and their very lives , " he added . Describing the conflict between Israel and Hezbollah as the deadliest in decades , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries can not be achieved only on the battlefield . " Israel must be bold in turning tactical gains against Iran and its proxies into a coherent strategy that secures Israel 's long-term safety and advances a broader peace and prosperity in the region , " he said . In New York , UN Secretary-General Ant ? nio Guterres welcomed the ceasefire announcement and hoped that this would put an end to the violence , destruction and suffering the people of Israel and Lebanon have been experiencing . UN Special Coordinator for Lebanon Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert echoed similar sentiments . " This agreement marks the starting point of a critical process , anchored in the full implementation of resolution 1701 ( 2006 ) , to restore the safety and security that civilians on both sides of the Blue Line deserve , " she said . Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer described the accord as a good deal for Israel and the region . It shows that when terrorists are beaten back both militarily and through dogged diplomacy , the likelihood of peace increases , he said . " Hezbollah said they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Gaza , but today 's ceasefire agreement should show Hamas they are as isolated as ever . " Now , Hamas must release all the remaining hostages and come to a negotiated ceasefire . Carrying on their failed strategy will lead only to further suffering and SENSELESS bloodshed in Gaza . Hamas must recognise that there 's no future without a strong and secure state of Israel , " Schumer said . " The Israel-Hezbollah ceasefire agreement also provides an enforcement mechanism to help ensure Hezbollah remains weakened and allows displaced Lebanese and Israeli civilians to return to their homes , " he said . " I applaud the Biden administration for this agreement and for continuing to work to negotiate a ceasefire and the return of all the hostages in Gaza , " he said . ( PTI )
