<h> Israel strikes Gaza as friends , family of slain Turkish-American activist prepare for funeral <p> Deir Al-Balah ( Gaza Strip ) , Sept 14:Israeli airstrikes hit central and southern Gaza overnight into Saturday , killing at least 14 people as the friends and family members of a Turkish-American activist killed by an Israeli solider prepared to honour her in a funeral . The airstrikes in Gaza City hit one home housing 11 people , including three women and four children , and another strike hit a tent in Khan Younis housing Palestinians displaced by the Israel-Hamas war , Gaza 's Civil Defence said on Saturday . They followed airstrikes earlier this week that hit a tent camp on Tuesday and a United Nations school housing displaced people on Wednesday . They hit as a campaign to inoculate children in Gaza against polio drew down and the World Health Organisation said about 560,000 under 10 have recovered from their first dose , seven out of every eight children the campaign aimed to vaccinate . The second doses are expected to begin later this month as part of an effort for which the WHO said parties had already agreed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " a massive success amidst a tragic daily reality of life " in a post on X on Friday . Meanwhile , the body of Aysenur Ezgi Eygi , the Turkish-American activist killed September 6 by an Israeli soldier , was returned to her hometown late Friday accompanied by a police honour guard , the official Turkish news agency reported . Draped in a Turkish flag , the coffin carrying her remains was carried from a hearse to a hospital in Didim by six officers in ceremonial uniform . Her funeral is due to be held in the coastal town in western Turkiye later Saturday . The 26-year-old activist from Seattle , who held United States and Turkish citizenship , was killed after a demonstration against Israeli settlements in the occupied West Bank , according to an Israeli protester who witnessed the shooting . The Israeli military said on Tuesday that Eygi was likely shot " indirectly and unintentionally " by Israeli forces . Turkiye announced it will conduct its own investigation into her death . Anadolu Agency reported her body arrived in Didim after an autopsy at the Izmir @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coffin being unloaded , her mother had to be helped by medics , the agency said . Her death earned condemnation from US Secretary of State Antony Blinken as the United States , Egypt and Qatar push for a cease-fire and the release of the hostages . Talks have repeatedly bogged down as Israel and Hamas accuse each other of making new and unacceptable demands . The war began when Hamas-led fighters killed some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , in an October 7 attack on southern Israel . They abducted another 250 people and are still holding around 100 hostages after releasing most of the rest in exchange for Palestinians imprisoned by Israel during a weeklong cease-fire in November . Around a third of the remaining hostages are believed to be dead . It has caused vast destruction and displaced around 90 per cent of Gaza 's population of 2.3 million , often multiple times , and plunged the territory into a severe humanitarian crisis . Gaza 's Health Ministry says over 41,000 Palestinians have been killed since the war began . The ministry does not distinguish between civilians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children make up just over half of the dead . Israel says it has killed more than 17,000 militants in the war . ( AP )
