<p> The UN 's warning on the state of Gaza on Tuesday -- that two million people face starvation and 14,000 babies face death within 48 hours if aid does n't reach them on time -- paints a picture that is not just dire ; it is the epitome of distress . These people are being subjected to a war they had no part in making . World leadership has failed to put a stop to this blatant disregard for human lives in a largely one-sided war that has violated all international conventions on armed conflict and human rights . The current situation should have a sobering effect on world leaders , and from recent reports , it seems it has , at least on the surface . However , whether they can capitalise on that and come together to restrain Israel from causing further damage remains to be seen . <p> According to reports , Israel on Monday allowed humanitarian aid to enter the Gaza Strip , which it had blocked for more than two and a half months , letting five aid-carrying trucks through . But this happened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its prime minister explained to supporters that preventing a famine in Gaza was necessary for " diplomatic reasons " as " images of mass starvation " could delegitimise their war efforts . Just a few days ago , however , he launched a fresh military offensive in Gaza -- a move Israel 's war cabinet approved earlier this month , aimed at " taking control " of the entire strip . <p> Countries and people worldwide have been criticising Israel 's genocidal actions in Gaza since the beginning of its military offensive in retaliation to the Hamas attack on October 7 , 2023 . That has made no difference whatsoever , as their concern has never translated into effective action to stop Israel from indiscriminately killing innocent civilians . Israel continues to do as it pleases , having killed more than 53,000 people in over 20 months now . <p> The lack of empathy in Israel 's leadership for the starving residents of Gaza boggles the mind . Its actions , including blocking aids , have drawn widespread condemnation , including from some of its allies . On Monday , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concrete actions " against the country if it continued its operations in Gaza . But this is nothing new . Countries and people worldwide have been criticising Israel 's genocidal actions in Gaza since the beginning of its military offensive in retaliation to the Hamas attack on October 7 , 2023 . That has made no difference whatsoever , as their concern has never translated into effective action to stop Israel from indiscriminately killing innocent civilians . The ceasefire deal finalised in January this year fell through in less than two months . Israel continues to do as it pleases , having killed more than 53,000 people in over 20 months now . <p> Evidently , mere warnings will no longer cut it . The time has come for Israel 's friends to force its hand through stern measures . If that means imposing targeted sanctions to make it follow international laws and allow humanitarian efforts in Gaza -- without any conditions -- then so be it . There is absolutely no time to waste when people , including babies , are starving to death .
