<h> Silencing Dissent <p> In recent years , British pro-Israel groups have pursued a multi-pronged strategy to stifle discourse about Israeli policy and Palestinian rights . This is a response to a decades-long erosion of support for Israel , coupled with growing support for Palestinians.Back in the 1970s , when pro-Israel groups dominated , individuals and groups supporting Palestinian rights were often excluded from political coalitions , removed from positions , prevented from speaking at university events , and had contributions returned by political candidates . Members of Parliament who spoke out were smeared and targeted for defeat . Attitudes began to change with the first intifada , and then the Madrid peace process culminating in the Oslo Accords . The power of intimidation diminished , and an open discussion on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict began.The debate continued over the next three decades , with fluctuations in the peace process . Increasingly aggressive and brutal behaviours by the Israeli government , coupled with greater scrutiny of its policies , resulted in a shift in British public opinion . Today , majorities in both major political parties support tying UK aid to Israel to its human rights violations , and by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Palestinians than of Israelis.Reflecting this change , an increasing number of supporters of Palestinian rights are getting involved in politics and advocacy . Students , including Arab Britons , Black Britons , Asian Britons , Muslims , and a significant number of young progressive Jews who can not reconcile their faith 's values with Israel 's treatment of Palestinians , are engaging in pro-Palestinian actions on university campuses . For hardline pro-Israel groups , it 's a crisis that has led to renewed efforts to silence Israel 's critics.Reactions to the current round of violence have exposed deep divisions in attitudes toward Palestine/Israel , while adding impetus to pro-Israel groups ' efforts to stifle debate . The widespread public outrage at Hamas ' actions presented an opportunity to advance their repressive agenda.Their tactics have included the expanded use of well-funded political committees to smear and defeat progressive candidates critical of Israeli policies , passing legislation or securing executive orders penalising supporters of efforts to boycott , divest , or sanction Israel over violations of Palestinian rights , and expanding the definition of antisemitism to include legitimate criticism of Israeli @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ firms , and universities to accept this definition and require employees to adhere to this policy . Additionally , they have targeted and smeared individuals and groups critical of Israel or supportive of Palestinian rights.Within days of the Hamas attacks , colleges/universities , organisations , and major corporations were pressured to denounce the attacks and describe them as antisemitic . Many did , and those who hesitated were criticised . As the Palestinian civilian death toll from Israeli strikes throughout Gaza increased , more balanced statements expressing concern for both Israeli and Palestinian civilians were criticised as antisemitic and " false comparisons " by pro-Israel groups.Campus student groups calling out repressive Israeli policies in Gaza , both before and after the Hamas assaults , have been painted as pro-Hamas and advocates for terror . In a few well-publicised cases , students identified as participating in pro-Palestinian actions had job offers from prominent law firms rescinded . Congressional resolutions expanding the definition of antisemitism to include legitimate criticism of Israel are being discussed , despite concerns about violating free speech.Two opposing social forces are at work : the ongoing fracturing of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ groups seeing widespread public horror over Hamas ' behaviour as an opportunity to advance their agenda to silence the emerging debate over Palestinian rights.Three weeks after the Hamas attacks , the initial revulsion has been somewhat offset by shock as the devastating toll of Israel 's massive retaliation against Gaza grows . While Hamas ' actions did n't advance the cause of Palestinian supporters ( nor did the careless and offensive language used by some pro-Palestinian student groups ) , neither has Israel 's unrelenting bombing of Gaza served Israel 's supporters seeking to stifle debate.Despite significant investments in resources and political capital by pro-Israel groups , and those harmed by their assault on free speech , they may intimidate members of Parliament and silence some debate for a time . However , changes in public opinion will continue . In fact , the very heavy-handed tactics used by the pro-Israel groups are already creating discomfort with their approach to silencing debate and defending the indefensible .
