<h> Religious leaders unite in urgent appeal for peace in Gaza <p> LAHORE - Religious leaders from across the nation , representing diverse faiths and beliefs , on Monday joined forces to make a global appeal for an immediate end to Israel 's aggression and brutality in Gaza . Addressing a unified audience at the Palestine Conference here at Cathedral Church , they urged the world powers to immediately play their role in ending the persecution of the oppressed Palestinian people . Pakistan Ulema Council Chairman , Hafiz Muhammad Tahir Mahmood Ashrafi , and Archbishop Dr. Sebastian Francis Shaw were among the prominent figures who emphasized that the ongoing situation in Gaza was not a matter confined to followers of any specific religion but a violation against humanity itself . Ashrafi who is also the Special Representative to the Prime Minister on Religious Harmony and the Pakistani Diaspora in Middle East and Islamic Countries , stated that Saudi Arabia and the Muslim world were actively playing their role against Israeli aggression , urging the global community to step forward to end Israeli oppression . He stressed the need for international solidarity to halt Israel 's atrocities and called for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Strip so that relief operations could be started in the region . According to a report of United Nations , 300,000 people of Gaza did not have food , water or medicine , he added . Ashrafi warned , " If this war spreads , everyone from Lebanon to Syria will be under its influence and it will harm mankind . " He highlighted the humanitarian crisis in Gaza , where even hospitals had not been spared from Israeli airstrikes and added 12,000 people including 4,000 children had been martyred in Israeli aggression . Archbishop Sebastian Francis Shaw urged the world to raise its voice against the ongoing conflict in Gaza and called for initiatives to provide aid to the affected population . He said innocent children , women and churches were targeted in Gaza . Syed Kazim Raza Naqvi said the Islamic world must take steps beyond appeals . He said innocent children and churches were being attacked which was inhumane and against the principles of war . He appealed to all the Islamic countries to establish an immediate ceasefire in Gaza . Maulana Asim Makhdoom , Pastor Emmanuel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Maulana Asadullah Farooq , Maulana Muhammad Aslam Qadri , Maulana Mubashir Rahimi and others also addressed the conference . They concluded with a joint appeal for an immediate cessation of hostilities , humanitarian assistance for the people of Gaza , and intensified efforts to end the injustice inflicted by Israel . The religious leaders emphasized the responsibility of the United Nations , Europe , America , Britain , and the Organization of Islamic Cooperation to play a decisive role in resolving the crisis and bringing about lasting peace in the region .
