<h> Killings of civilians in Gaza ' unparalleled , unprecedented : Guterres <p> UNITED NATIONS-UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres on Monday decried events in bombed-out Gaza since Oct. 7 , calling them a " killing of civilians that is unparalleled and unprecedented " since he took office . " What is clear is that we have had in a few weeks thousands of children killed , so this is what matters , " the UN chief said in New York while presenting a new UN environmental report . " We are witnessing a killing of civilians that is unparalleled and unprecedented in any conflict since I am secretary general . " It is important to be able to transform the tragedy into an opportunity , Guterres said , adding : " It is essential that after the war we move in a determined , and the reversible way to a two-state solution . " In reply to a question , the secretary-general said that in all the reports issued during his tenure , on children in conflict , it was clear that the current war in Gaza has seen thousands of child deaths - compared with hundreds , in conflicts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accuracy of the figures released by the Palestinian health ministry in Gaza , which are regarded by UN agencies as reliable , he said that " what is clear is that we have had in a few weeks thousands of children killed . " Latest reports from health authorities indicate that more than 13,000 civilians in total have died in the enclave since the 7 October attacks by Hamas , and subsequent Israeli offensive . " This is what matters . We are witnessing a killing of civilians that is unparalleled and unprecedented in any conflict since I have been Secretary-General . " Also addressing how the region can move forward once the fighting stops , the UN chief said that it was " important to be able to transform this tragedy into an opportunity . " " For that to be possible , it is essential that after the war we move in a determined , irreversible way to a two-state solution " , he told correspondents . " It means also that after the war - and this is my opinion - I believe it to be important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assume responsibilities in Gaza . " He said a humanitarian ceasefire was a crucial first step , along with unrestricted access to humanitarian aid , " the liberation of hostages " and an end to violations of international humanitarian law and protection of civilians . He said the Palestinian Authority which administers the West Bank , and which was forced out of Gaza in 2006 by Hamas , could clearly not assume control while Israeli tanks remain , meaning there must be a " transition period " .
