<p> The Organization for Economic Cooperation ( D8 ) will convene its extraordinary meeting on Saturday this week , in Istanbul , T ? rkiye , to discuss the continued deteriorating humanitarian situation in the Gaza Strip , Palestine . <p> A statement by the organization Wednesday , disclosed that the meeting will take place inside the historic Dolmabah ? e Palace in the City of Istanbul.According to the statement , the meeting is at the invitation of the Turkish Foreign Minister , Mr. Hakan Fidan , and it is expected to galvanize further support and solidarity within the D-8 alliance for the people of Palestine , " particularly those residing in the besieged Gaza Strip , against the backdrop of continued and indiscriminate yet senseless bombardments of the territory by the Israeli occupation forces . " <p> It further noted that , the extraordinary meeting , in which ministers and a high-ranking delegation from the D-8 Member States have confirmed their attendance , will discuss humanitarian assistance and other necessary relief materials to help ease the Palestinian people 's current hardships and sufferings . " Also , the Istanbul meeting of the D8 Foreign Ministers will help draw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ genocide of Israel , as the occupying power , against the Palestinians , as well as increase diplomatic pressure on the occupying power to stop the indiscriminate killings of the residents of Gaza strip . " The meeting is also set to provide humanitarian assistance to Palestinians who are in desperate need of food , medicine , and other relief materials , " the statement readThe Council of Foreign Ministers is the D-8 Organization 's political decision-making organ . The meeting is expected to conclude with a joint declaration of the D8 member states . <p> The D-8 is an intergovernmental organization of eight countries that focuses on promoting economic cooperation . <p> It is composed of Bangladesh , Egypt , Indonesia , Iran , Malaysia , Nigeria , Pakistan , and T ? rkiye.The organization was established in 1997 and is headquartered in Istanbul , T ? rkiye.
