<h> India pressed for dialogue , diplomacy , reformed multilateralism as conflicts raged around world in 2023 <p> UNITED NATIONS , Dec 31 : As wars and conflicts raged around the world this year , India pressed for dialogue and diplomacy to resolve them and gave a consistent clarion call for reformed multilateralism amid failures by a polarised UN Security Council to maintain international peace . India , which became the world 's most populous country in 2023 , emerged as the voice of the Global South as it presided over the G20 , the grouping of the world 's largest economies , throughout the year . At a time when the world , as External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar pointed out , was witnessing sharp East-West polarisation and deep North-South divides , India brought its G20 thematic message of ' One Earth , One family , One Future ' to the global stage , including at the United Nations . Prime Minister Narendra Modi , leading an unprecedented Yoga Day celebration at the UN headquarters on June 21 , urged the international community to " use the power of Yoga to build bridges of friendship " , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ future . " Let us join hands together to realise the goal of -- ' One Earth , One family , One Future ' , " Modi said as he led the historic yoga session at the expansive North Lawn in the UN headquarters , nine years after he had first proposed from the UN General Assembly podium to mark International Yoga Day as an annual commemoration . India 's call for unity and adherence to diplomacy and dialogue to find effective solutions to crises was also reiterated by Jaishankar at the annual high-level UN General Assembly session in September . Greeting global leaders from the iconic UNGA lectern with ' Namaste from Bharat ' , Jaishankar said the world was witnessing an exceptional period of turmoil and stresses have been aggravated by the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and repercussions of ongoing conflicts , tensions and disputes . " At this juncture , it was with a sense of exceptional responsibility that India took up the Presidency of the G20 . Our vision of ' One Earth , One Family , One Future ' sought to focus on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interests of a few , " Jaishankar said . The G20 Summit in Delhi affirmed that " diplomacy and dialogue are the only effective solutions . The international order is diverse and we must cater for divergences , if not differences . The days when a few nations set the agenda and expected others to fall in line are over , " Jaishankar told world leaders . Jaishankar highlighted that the Summit of the Future to be hosted in September next year by the United Nations should serve as a " serious opportunity to drive change , champion fairness and reform multilateralism , including the expansion of the Security Council memberships . The calls for reforming multilateral institutions such as the UN and particularly the Security Council came from the highest echelons of the world body when Secretary-General Antonio Guterres gave a clarion call to reform the powerful 15-nation UN organ " in line with the world of today " and based on equity . The UN chief told world leaders at the high-level UNGA session that the Council reflects the political and economic realities of 1945 and risks becoming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Our world is becoming unhinged . Geopolitical tensions are rising . Global challenges are mounting . And we seem incapable of coming together to respond , " Guterres said . " I have no illusions . Reforms are a question of power . I know there are many competing interests and agendas . But the alternative to reform is not the status quo . The alternative to reform is further fragmentation . It 's reform or rupture , " he said . The failure of the Security Council to act in times of global crises was sharply evident during the Ukraine conflict and yet again in the aftermath of the October 7 terror attacks in Israel by Hamas . India voiced deep concern over the deteriorating security situation and large-scale loss of civilian life in the latest Israel-Palestine conflict and urged the parties to work towards creating conditions necessary for peace and restarting direct negotiations through de-escalation and ending violence . The Council 's failure to act on multiple occasions towards achieving a humanitarian ceasefire in the Gaza war , due to vetoes cast by permanent members , again raised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and underlined the need for urgent reforms . Guterres invoked Article 99 , a rare and " dramatic constitutional move " under the United Nations Charter to appeal to the Security Council for a humanitarian ceasefire in the Israel-Hamas conflict and to avert a " humanitarian catastrophe , " which he said has potentially irreversible implications for Palestinians and peace and security in the region . This was the first time that Guterres invoked Article 99 of the Charter since he became UN Secretary-General in 2017 . Article 99 states that " the Secretary-General may bring to the attention of the Security Council any matter which in his opinion may threaten the maintenance of international peace and security . " India 's Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador Ruchira Kamboj said that as a member of the Global South , India shares " its collective angst that on issues of core concern to the South , we have no voice at the high table . " In a scathing criticism of the present composition of the UN 's top organ , Kamboj said the Security Council of yesterday is " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ security plumbing " will work in the year 2023 . " If the trillion dollar question is to ensure peace , do we have a peace infrastructure representative of the current times and contemporary realities ? " Kamboj said . Kamboj questioned whether 2023 is the new 1945 , referring to the year when the powerful UN body came into existence . She said that during the annual high-level UNGA session in September this year , there were " unequivocal calls " for comprehensive and meaningful reforms from more than 85 global leaders . " These calls must be answered . We must all realise that the clock is ticking , and turning the other way in the face of global challenges is just not an option ... Multilateral institutions rarely die , they simply fade into irrelevance , " Kamboj said . The G4 nations of Brazil , Germany , India and Japan also said that these days , the world is " faced with a proliferation of crises that dramatically impact international peace and security . More than ever , we need a representative and well-functioning Security Council @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peace and security . To make progress towards that goal is our responsibility . " Amid deep divisions and inaction at the world body , India underlined messages of unity , bridging divides and sustainability -- from the commemoration of International Yoga Day that created a Guinness World Record for the participation of people of most nationalities to the promotion of millets after the year 2023 was designated as ' International Year of Millets ' . Guterres , who attended the G20 Leaders ' Summit hosted in Delhi in September , voiced concern that people are suffering , the world is hurting and the planet is burning . " India 's G20 Presidency reminded us that we are one earth and one family with one future . So let 's act like it , " the UN chief said . ( PTI )
