<h> Mercenaries and ongoing conflicts <p> Harsha Kakar A recent report in Nikkei Asia , covering inputs from Nepal , quoted the Nepalese PM , Pushpa Kamal Dahal , mentioning that ' as many as 200 Nepalese nationals may be serving in the Russian Army . A small contingent of Nepalese is also understood to be serving in the Ukrainian army , finding themselves on the opposite side of their compatriots in a faraway war . ' This came after reports emerged that six Nepalese serving in the Russian army have died . Reports also mention that about a 100 more are either injured or missing.The first group of Nepalese to join the conflict were students on scholarship in Russia . This despite the fact that Nepal had voted against the Russian invasion at the UN . The Russian ambassador to Kathmandu was summoned to provide inputs . Russia has offered citizenship to those who fight in the Russian army as also to families of those who lose their lives . I met a Gorkha soldier from Nepal , serving in the Indian army , whose civilian relatives had fought in Ukraine and died . The deceased individual 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down , apart from being provided a substantial financial package , all coordinated by the Russian embassy in Katmandu . Hence , despite all claims , recruitment of foreignersis backed by governments of nations involved in conflicts . In an investigative report on Afghanistan , nominated for the European Press Prize , Andreas Babst and Shristi Kafle write , ' In Afghanistan , Gurkhas served as guards for a number of western embassies and other facilities . According to estimates , 35,000 Nepalese have worked as guards in Afghanistan over the past 20 years , but the number is likely to be far higher . Many of them were victims of human trafficking . When Kabul fell , some were simply left behind . ' This was exploitationof a third world country to serve the needs of the powerful , all well-known , but ignored as costs were low and the job carried risk to life . Many of those recruited as security guards for Afghanistan were ex-soldiers from Nepal , including some who had served in the Indian army . There are also reports of US trained Afghan soldiers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two weeks of Russia launching its ' special military operation ' into Ukraine , Putin permitted upto 16,000 ' volunteers ' from the Middle East to be deployed in Ukraine . The Russian Wagner group is known to possess mercenaries including prisoners from Russia , as also ex-soldiers from Africa and other nations.Moscow'sintent was to restrict Russian military casualties . According to the Business Insider , in Mid-2022 , Ukraine formed the International Legion of Defence , which included 20,000 ( so-called ) volunteers from 52 nations , numbers of which are currently reported to have dwindled . Some of them were even former officers from NATO countries including Britain and Canada . They also included those who had fought with the Kurds against ISIS in Syria . Israel has a law ( Mitnadvei Hutz LaAretz or Mahal ) which permits its army to recruit Jewish citizens from across the globe , who have at least one Jewish grandparent . A recent unconfirmed report in WION mentioned that many mercenaries fighting on behalf of Ukraine are leaving the country to join the Israeli army in its battle with Hamas . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to grant ' honorary citizenship ' to those foreigners who died fighting for Israel . While current wars have inducted fighters seeking financial gains , fundamentalist groups , such as the ISIS , attract volunteers based on their ideology . Over 40,000 volunteers , spread across 110 countries , had joined the ISIS , while a lesser number joined the Taliban in the eighties . There are reports of volunteers from Iran backed terrorist groups in West Asia seeking to fight alongside Hamas in Gaza , details of which remain unclear . Someparticipants are also a result of human trafficking . While some ' volunteers or mercenaries ' pay for their passage , many , especially ex-soldiers , are moved at the cost of the agent , money to be refunded later . These volunteers are trained for short durations and moved to the frontlines . Nations currently engaged in wars do not possess the populace to sustain a long-term conflict and hence have to bank on volunteers or mercenaries from abroad . It also enables them to hide true casualty figures . The line differentiating mercenaries and volunteer soldiers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mercenaries , nations find ways to bypass these rules . Funding for Ukraine flows from western nations , all of whom are aware of foreigners fighting on Kiev 's behalf . Russia possesses the economy to pay those who fight on its behalf . These are the same nations which support the UN when it seeks to pass laws restricting exploiting of populace from poorer nations in battles across the globe . Third world countries are the most affected as current wars seem to be an opportunity for ex-soldiers to serve for limited durations for financial gains . India , which would in the coming years , have thousands of unemployed Agniveers could become a lucrative recruiting ground . Since most recruitment is through agents and by word of mouth , it would be difficult to contain . Those who enlist in foreign armies to fight ongoing conflicts transit through non-combat regions making their detection difficult . Many who joined the Russian army transited through Europe on a preplanned route . Nepal has passed directions for government permission prior to joining any ongoing conflict but this is hardly resorted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As long as volunteers for war is available in poorer nations and trained soldiers retire young , those involved in conflict would never be short of cannon fodder . The only governing factor is that nations engaged in warpossessresources to pay for theirservices . Russia and Israel possess it and the west funds Ukraine . The world is aware of this exploitation but turns a blind eye . Unless the UN with support from majority states strictly imposes laws , including indicting heads of state involved in recruiting foreigners , residents of poorer nations will always be exploited . In the years ahead , India will need to impose measures to ensure that its Agniveers are not exploited in a similar manner . The author is Major General ( Retd )
