<h> India 2024 Challenges Ahead <p> Poonam I Kaushish Every time one tears a leaf off a calendar one sees a new place for new ideas and progress . So should one uncork champagne and roll out drums ? By welcoming 2024 on wings of new hopes and promises ? As 2023 goes go down in history as une ann ? e charni ? re , a tumultuous year , a mixed bag , India steps into 2024 with cautious hope as new set of challenges confront it . Politically , this year will see the world 's largest democratic exercise of general elections being held . A testament to roots that democracy has sunk in the country where less than 8 decades ago only quarter of people were eligible to vote and literacy levels in large swathes did n't cross double digits . A ringing endorsement of our democratic ethos . Politically , if BJP 's Modi wins a third successive five-year Prime Ministerial term , he will be the first leader to do so since Congress 's Nehru . NaMo , as is his wont , drew a wide arc that seeks to encompass " 550 years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get Nayi Urja drawing upon aastha and Digital India synergies , " in ' New Ayodhya ' readied for Lord Ram 's consecration 22 January . Alongside , using " labharthi " to reconstitute citizenship bringing under it farmers , poor , youth , women calling them the four biggest castes , " saanjhi taakat " of targeted welfare schemes , fulfillment of " Modi 's guarantees , " infrastructure upgrade , rescinding Article 370 and temple as the centerpiece of its formidable dare of a tough electoral challenge to the 26 Opposition Parties INDIA Bloc . Questionable , can Opposition 's strategy to present a united front derail BJP 's juggernaut ? Can Congress 's Rahul , regional satraps TMC 's Chief Mamata , NCP , DMK , JD(U) , RJD put aside their differences ? Can it counter BJP 's ' reinvented ' citizenship by re-invoking Mandal read caste census , by underscoring the unfulfilled agenda of social justice ? Can it compromise on seat sharing ? The challenge will have to take into account BJP has honed and hardened its core message and added layers to its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' with Mandal but also co-opted it . Certainly , while the unfinished societal impartiality agenda might be a counter-strategy , is Congress , INDIA a credible vehicle of that vision ? Importantly , does it have the capacity ? Pertinently , Treasury-Opposition distrust was starkly visible in Parliament 's winter session with 146 MPs suspended for " misconduct , " showcasing how dysfunctional the legislature has become . Amidst the continuing logjam and penchant for notching up brownie points , all conveniently brush under the carpet that Parliament is a sacred symbol of our democracy . The onus is on both Government and Opposition to ensure smooth running of both Houses . Time our MPs realize their key job is to legislate . Remember , Parliamentary democracy does not begin and end with elections , it 's a continuous process whereby even as Opposition has its say , Government has its way . The electorate takes a cue from Parliament . A House that functions in a healthy atmosphere of dialogue , dissent and debate sends out a positive message to people . Besides , in an era of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , increasingly , we are getting more casteist and communal whereby a distraught India is searching for her soul under an increasing onslaught of intolerance and criminalization . Amidst this aakrosh , the common man continues to struggle for roti , kapada aur makaan with an increasingly angry and restive janata demanding answers . Sick of crippling morass of our neo-Maharajas with their power trappings and suffering from Acute Orwellian syndrome of " **31;914;TOOLONG " and Oliver 's disorder , " always asking for more " . Tragically , nobody has time for aam aadmi 's growing disillusionment with the system which explodes in rage . Turn to any mohalla , district or State , the story is mournfully the same . Resulting in more and more people taking law into their own hands and borne out by increasing rioting and looting . Capital Delhi is replete with gory tales of crime and murders . The system has become so sick that women are raped in crowded trains with co-passengers as mute spectators . Sporadically converting the country into andher nagri wherein our sensibilities are benumbed . The daily despicable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to trouble our collective conscience . As the New Year unfolds , India will have to contend with an increasingly unstable world with foreboding , as wars in Ukraine and Gaza spill over and escalate and new ones erupt in incipient fault lines across the world . The most powerful instruments of violence are available to State and non-State actors . This embrace of unrestrained violence is matched by new instruments of war wonders of technological advancement whose frenetic pace is leaving Government 's bedazzled and bewildered . Domestically , Government needs to look at how security challenges in Jammu &amp; Kashmir and Manipur can be addressed while ameliorating inflamed public opinion over the ambush of security personnel , custodial killings in Poonch , Naxal menace and strife in Manipur . Clearly , New Delhi needs to deal with the unfolding situation sympathetically as it could lead to multiple fault lines , which could polarise our plural society and threaten the survival of the Indian State On the external front India relations with China and Pakistan are like playing poker . Show no emotions even as one plans strategy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gambling on a winning hand . Despite umpteen military and diplomatic dialogues over-22 months and continuing standoff in Eastern Ladakh , Beijing continues to take " incremental and tactical " actions to press its claims along the LAC . While elections in Pakistan and Bangladesh might become portends of more instability in South Asia , New Delhi needs to keep a keen eye on their political churn . It is a paradox of our times that just when most of our challenges and threats to our well-being have become global , our attitudes have become more narrowly national . There is no alternative to truly collaborative responses delivered through empowered institutions of governance whose guiding principle is equity . As we move ahead our leaders need to stop getting their shorts in knots over excessive trivia , get their act together , take responsibility , amend their ways and address real serious issues of governance . They must realize India 's democratic prowess owes its resilience to the aam aadmi . Our policy makers need to redouble their efforts on the ease of living as people want jobs , transparency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in education . Besides , no matter who wins or loses Modi and INDIA Opposition bloc needs to put its act together with leaders with grit and determination who can and are ready to build a new India as there are shared stakes in a life together built by a multi-plural society of diverse people and communities which constitute the life of a nation . Ultimately , when the battle of ideas and ideologies skid and careen noisily our rulers need to focus on what they are going to do to make 2024 a good year . Time to get back to basics , build a climate safe country and reignite the magic of simplicity and minimalism . They need to become more humane and painstakingly secure heritage of multi-faith tolerance and grass-root democracy whereby , the principles of ' Jus Ad Bellum ' : right authority , right intention and reasonable hope dictate our responses . What gives ? ( INFA )
