<h> Being anti-Tel Aviv is n't antisemitic <h> The Israel-Hamas conflict has breathed new life into the demand that US universities push political agendas out of universities , rather than provide campus space for different , sometimes conflicting , PoVs . Questioning Tel Aviv 's decision to disproportionately punish Gaza 's citizens does not amount to antisemitism . The same way conflating Hamas ' murderous agenda with Muslim , never mind Palestinian , intent is wrong . This conflation insults genuine cases of antisemitism that must be snuffed out promptly . <p> The resignation of Harvard president Claudine Gay on Tuesday , following bitter criticism of her appearance at a congressional hearing in early December , has fired a debate in the US on campus antisemitism . She goes along with U Penn president Elizabeth Magill who quit last month , and with pressure growing on their MIT counterpart , Sally Kornbluth , to follow suit . Gay and Magill are collateral damage of the Israel-Hamas war . They represent the tip of the iceberg of the unintended consequences of Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu 's decision to continue with attacks on Gaza . <p> The initial sympathy for Israel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ count has risen . On the one hand , it has meant open season for all manner of extremist positions and a renewed surge in antisemitism . On the other , it has resulted in the unsavoury and unfortunate conflation of criticism of the Netanyahu administration with that of all Jews . Gay and other fellow university presidents came under attack of legislators , donors and alums for their indecisive answers when asked whether the calls for ' intifada ' amounted to calls for ' genocide ' of Jews . And whether such protest calls amounted to violations of their universities ' codes of conduct . <p> The Israel-Hamas conflict has breathed new life into the demand that US universities push political agendas out of universities , rather than provide campus space for different , sometimes conflicting , PoVs . Questioning Tel Aviv 's decision to disproportionately punish Gaza 's citizens does not amount to antisemitism . The same way conflating Hamas ' murderous agenda with Muslim , never mind Palestinian , intent is wrong . This conflation insults genuine cases of antisemitism that must be snuffed out promptly .
