<h> DAVOS , Jan 14 : Grappling with crises ranging from climate to conflicts to fake news , more <p> than 2,800 leaders from around the world , including India , have begun gathering in this Alpine resort town for an annual five-day talkathon . Those present for the 54th World Economic Forum Annual Meeting beginning Monday would include over 60 heads of state and Governments , while Indian presence would be marked by three Union Ministers , three chief ministers along with their ministerial colleagues and over a hundred CEOs . A day before the ceremonial start to the WEF meeting , Davos is hosting for the first time national security advisors from 90 countries to discuss a peace plan for Ukraine , which would also be a key point of discussion at the WEF sessions , alongside the Israel-Gaza conflict , threats from AI-generated deep fakes in a bumper election year , climate change , economic slowdown , and a lot many problems before the world . The World Economic Forum , which describes itself as an international organisation for public-private cooperation committed to improving the state of the world , has been hosting this meeting in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there have been positive outcomes for key concerns before the world leaders . In an online pre-meeting press conference , WEF President Borge Brende said the meeting will take place in a very complicated and the most challenging geopolitical and geo-economic scenario . The annual meeting , which will be held under the theme of ' Rebuilding Trust ' from January 15-19 , will also be attended by nearly 100 political and business leaders from India . The Indian delegation would include three Union ministers -- Smriti Irani , Ashwini Vaishnaw and Hardeep Singh Puri -- as well as three chief ministers -- Maharashtra 's Eknath Shinde , Telangana 's Revanth Reddy and Karnataka 's Siddaramaiah . Describing India as a key country with over 8 per cent GDP growth , Brende said several ministers from the country will attend the meeting despite being in the middle of an election season . Besides , RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das and ministers from Uttar Pradesh , Tamil Nadu and Telangana will be also there , alongside several CEOs , including Gautam Adani , Sanjiv Bajaj , Kumar Mangalam Birla , N Chandrasekaran @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Nandan Nilekani , Rishad Premji and Sumant Sinha . The meeting will be attended by over 40 finance ministers and 16 central bank governors , as well as by 30 trade ministers from across the world , along with the World Trade Organization Director-General Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala . Among global leaders , French President Emmanuel Macron , Chinese Premier Li Qiang , European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen , Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy , US Secretary of State Antony Blinken and US National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan will take part . Key foreign ministers from the Middle East will be also there . The WEF said the meeting will drive dialogue , cooperation and partnerships on global imperatives , including economic growth , climate and nature action , energy security , technology governance and human development . " We face a fractured world and growing societal divides , leading to pervasive uncertainty and pessimism . We have to rebuild trust in our future by moving beyond crisis management , looking at the root causes of the present problems , and building together a more promising future , " WEF @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will also be attended by South Korean President Han Duck-soo , Spain Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez , Swiss President Viola Amherd , Belgium Prime Minister Alexander De Croo , Iraq President Mohammed Shyaa Al Sudani , Netherlands Prime Minister Mark Rutte , Qatar Prime Minister Mohammed Bin Abdulrahman Al Thani , Singapore President Tharman Shanmugaratnam , Sri Lanka President Ranil Wickremesinghe , and Vietnam Prime Minister Pham Minh Chinh . Heads of international organisations taking part include UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres , IMF Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva , World Bank President Ajay S Banga , NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg and WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus . An estimated 1,600 business leaders , including 800-plus of the world 's top CEOs and chairpersons , will also participate , while there will also be more than 150 global innovators , tech pioneers and unicorns , as also over 35 cultural leaders . With a large number of countries , including India and the US , headed to elections this year and the next one , misinformation and societal polarisation have emerged among the biggest immediate risks before the world , and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meeting . In the case of India alone , ' misinformation and disinformation ' pose the top-most threat in the next two years , the World Economic Forum ( WEF ) said in its annual ' Global Risks Report ' . It is followed by infectious diseases , illicit economic activity , income inequality and labour shortage , among the five biggest short-term risks . On a longer-term horizon of ten years , the biggest global risk would be from extreme weather events . The report , released ahead of the WEF 's five-day annual meeting in Davos beginning January 15 , argued that cooperation on urgent global issues could be in increasingly short supply , requiring new approaches to addressing risks . " Two-thirds of global experts anticipate a multipolar or fragmented order to take shape over the next decade , in which middle and great powers contest and set ' but also enforce ' ? new rules and norms , " it said . On a short-term horizon of two years , the report identified ' misinformation and disinformation ' as the biggest risk , followed by extreme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ armed conflict in the top five . Emerging as the most severe global risk anticipated over the next two years , foreign and domestic actors alike will leverage misinformation and disinformation to further widen societal and political divides , the report said . ( PTI )
