<p> Israel Hamas have been at war for 100 days now . The war started on the fateful day , October 7 , when the militant group Hamas infiltrated southern Israel from Gaza , creating significant chaos . The incident led to 1,200 casualties , and 240 individuals were taken hostage and transported back to Gaza . Following the Hamas attack , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , declared war and initiated retaliatory airstrikes on Gaza . Many have raised objections against Israel 's attack . However , Netanyahu has said that Israel will not be swayed by the ongoing case at the International Court of Justice in The Hague . In this legal battle , Israel is contending allegations that its actions in Gaza are tantamount to genocide . <p> Following Hamas ' attack on October 7 , Hezbollah , a Lebanese group allied with Iran , initiated cross-border shelling attacks against Israel , similar to Hamas . These attacks persist throughout the duration of the conflict , prompting counter-strikes from Israel . ( Image : AP ) <p> Soon after residents of Gaza City were advised by Israel to evacuate , signaling the commencement of a widespread @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Gaza were singled out for evacuation , resulting in the displacement of hundreds of thousands of people . <p> Israel asserts that it targets militants and takes extensive measures to minimize harm to non-combatants while engaging in urban warfare against Hamas in the densely populated Palestinian enclave . However , the significant loss of life in Gaza and the severe humanitarian crisis has deeply alarmed global public opinion , leading to increasing calls for a ceasefire . ( Image : AP ) <p> Israel has dismissed the accusation as a severe misrepresentation , asserting that its actions in Gaza are in self-defense . Israel claims that the military intervention was prompted by a series of attacks on southern Israeli communities by Hamas gunmen on October 7 , resulting in the deaths of more than 1,200 Israelis and foreigners . ( Image : AP ) <p> A picture , illuminated by a lightbulb , is displayed inside a tunnel set up to simulate the living conditions of the hostages kidnapped in the deadly October 7 attack by Hamas in Israel on January 13 . ( Image : Reuters )
