<h> US military seizes Iranian missile parts bound for Houthi rebels in raid where 2 SEALs went missing <p> PTI Updated : January 16 , 2024 22:49 IST <p> Jerusalem , Jan 16 ( AP ) US Navy SEALs seized Iranian-made missile parts and other weaponry from a ship bound for Yemen 's Houthi rebels in a raid last week that saw two of its commandos go missing , the US military said Tuesday . Meanwhile , a new ship came under suspected fire from the Houthis in the Red Sea and sustained some damage , though no one was wounded , officials said . The raid marks the latest seizure by the US Navy and its allies of weapon shipments bound for the rebels , who have launched a series of attacks now threatening global trade in the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden over Israel 's war on Hamas in the Gaza Strip . The seized missile components included types likely used in those attacks . The attacks , US-led retaliatory strikes and the raid all have raised tensions across the wider Middle East , which also saw Iran conduct ballistic missile strikes in both Iraq and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the commandos launching from the USS Lewis B Puller backed by drones and helicopters , with the US military 's Central Command saying it took place in the Arabian Sea . The SEALs travelled in small special operations combat craft driven by naval special warfare crew to get to the boat . As they were boarding it in rough seas , around 8 pm local time , one SEAL got knocked off by high waves and a teammate went in after him . Both remain missing . The SEALs found cruise and ballistic missile components , including propulsion and guidance devices , as well as warheads , Central Command said . It added that air defence parts also were found . " Initial analysis indicates these same weapons have been employed by the Houthis to threaten and attack innocent mariners on international merchant ships transiting in the Red Sea , " Central Command said in a statement . Images released by the US military analysed by The Associated Press showed components resembling rocket motors and others previously seized . It also included what appeared to be an anti-ship cruise missile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Houthis and Iran . Also included in the photos was a warhead similarly seen in the Iranian anti-ship missiles which are based off an earlier Chinese design , said Fabian Hinz , a missile expert and research fellow at the International Institute for Strategic Studies . " Looking at the size and the robustness of the thing , it looks a lot like an anti-ship warhead , " Hinz said . Hinz also noted the warhead in the photo has a sticker reading " GHAD " on it . Iran has an anti-ship missile called the Ghadir . The US Navy ultimately sunk the ship carrying the weapons after deeming it unsafe , Central Command said . The ship 's 14 crew have been detained . The Houthis have not acknowledged the seizure and Iran 's mission to the United Nations did not respond to a request for comment . However , Iran 's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei praised the Houthis ' attacks in a speech Tuesday . " The nation of Yemen and the government of ( the Houthis ) have truly done a great job , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of jihad for the sake of Allah . We hope that these efforts will continue until victory . " He added : " The Yemenis hit the lifeline of the Zionist regime and did not fear the US threat because a God-fearing person does not fear anything but God . " A United Nations resolution bans arms transfers to Yemen 's Iranian-backed Houthi rebels . Tehran has long denied arming the rebels , despite physical evidence , numerous seizures and experts tying the weapons back to Iran . Meanwhile Tuesday , a missile struck the Malta-flagged bulk carrier Zografia in the Red Sea . The vessel had been heading north to the Suez Canal when it was attacked , the Greek Shipping and Island Policy Ministry said . The ship -- managed by a Greek firm -- had no cargo on board and sustained only material damage , the ministry said . The crew included 20 Ukrainians , three Filipinos and one Georgian . Satellite-tracking data analyzed by The Associated Press showed the Zografia still moving after the attack . The British military 's United Kingdom Maritime Trade Operations , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acknowledged an attack in the vicinity of the Zografia . Since November , the Houthis have repeatedly targeted ships in the Red Sea , saying they were avenging Israel 's offensive in Gaza against Hamas . But they have frequently targeted vessels with tenuous or no clear links to Israel , imperiling shipping in a key route for global trade . US-led airstrikes targeted Houthi positions on Friday and Saturday . In response , the Houthis launched a missile at a US-owned bulk carrier called the Gibraltar Eagle in the Gulf of Aden on Monday , further raising the risks in the conflict . Oil major Shell , responding to the attacks , plans to halt its shipments through the Red Sea , the Wall Street Journal reported Monday . The company did not immediately respond to a request for comment , but in December , a Houthi-fired missile missed a ship carrying Shell jet fuel from India . ( AP ) SCYSCY <p> ( This story has not been edited by THE WEEK and is auto-generated from PTI )
