<p> Islamabad , Jan 18 ( PTI ) Pakistan on Thursday used killer drones and rockets to carry out " precision military strikes " against what it called " terrorist hideouts " in Iran 's Siestan-Balochistan province , killing 9 people , a day after Islamabad downgraded diplomatic ties with Tehran following Iranian attacks on the terror bases in Balochistan . " This morning Pakistan undertook a series of highly coordinated and specifically targeted precision military strikes against terrorist hideouts in Siestan-o-Baluchistan province of Iran , " Pakistan 's Foreign Office said in a statement on Thursday . It said a number of terrorists were killed during the intelligence-based operation - codenamed " Marg Bar Sarmachar " ( Death to Sarmachar ) . In Persian , " marg bar " means " death to " while " Sarmachar " means guerrilla in the Baloch language . The precision strikes were carried out using killer drones , rockets , loitering munitions and stand-off weapons , according to a statement issued by the Inter-Services Public Relations ( ISPR ) , the Pakistan military 's media wing . " Maximum care was taken to avoid collateral damage , " it added . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Balochistan Liberation Army ( BLA ) and Balochistan Liberation Front ( BLF ) were successfully struck . " The two groups have carried out several deadly attacks in Pakistan in the past . Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman Nasser Kan'ani condemned the attack and said that the Pakistani charg ? d'affaires was summoned by the ministry to convey Tehran 's protest to Islamabad and provide an explanation about the attack , Iran 's state-run Press TV reported . Quoting Deputy governor of the province Alireza Marhamati , official news agency ' IRNA ' said that nine non-Iranian nationals - two men , three women and four children - were killed in the attack , which is being investigated by the Iranian security officials . There was also an explosion near Saravan city , 347 km southeast of the provincial capital Zahedan , where there were no casualties , he added . Iranian Interior Minister Ahmad Vahidi confirmed the figures later in the day . The strikes came two days after Iran launched unprecedented missile and drone attacks on what it said were directed at the bases of the Sunni Baloch militant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pakistan to recall its ambassador to Iran , expel the Iranian envoy and suspend all planned high-level bilateral visits . The tit-for-tat attacks within two days have raised tensions in the volatile region , already roiled by Israel 's war on Hamas in the Gaza Strip and the targeting of the merchant ships in the Red Sea by Yemen 's Houthis . China has asked Iran and Pakistan to " exercise restraint and calmness and avoid escalation " as it offered to play a " constructive role " to ease tension between them . Foreign Office spokesperson Mumtaz Zahra Baloch , however , said that currently no third party mediation was taking place to ease tension with Iran when asked if China was playing any role to reduce tension between the two countries . Baloch said that a number of terrorists were killed in Pakistan 's strikes but refused to share the exact number of casualties . She said the Operation ' Marg Bar Sarmachar ' was not against Iran , but against the hideouts of Baloch terrorists and Pakistan is looking to reduce the current escalation . " We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that others understand this , " she said at her weekly media briefing . " We will continue to engage with our neighbour Iran to ensure that peace prevails and that the two countries make concerted and coordinated efforts to combat the threat of terrorism , " she said . Underling that this year Pakistan and Iran saw some very positive trends in relationship and achieved some key milestones , she said that the Iranian attack was " very surprising for us . " In its statement earlier Thursday , the Foreign Office said Islamabad has consistently shared its serious concerns with Tehran about the safe havens and sanctuaries enjoyed by Pakistani origin terrorists calling themselves Sarmachars inside Iran . " However , because of lack of action on our serious concerns , these so-called Sarmachars continued to spill the blood of innocent Pakistanis with impunity . This morning 's action was taken in light of credible intelligence of impending large-scale terrorist activities by these so-called Sarmachars , " it added . " This action is a manifestation of Pakistan 's unflinching resolve to protect and defend its national security @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pakistan will continue to take all necessary steps to preserve the safety and security of its people which is " sacrosanct , inviolable and sacred . " The Pakistan Stock Exchange ( PSX ) lost more than 1,000 points after Thursday 's strikes , boiling up tension between the two neighbours . According to the PSX website , the KSE-100 index lost around 1038 points at 10:08 am . At 10:31am , the index lost 770.12 points cumulatively to reach 62,797.21 , down 1.21 per cent from the previous close of 63,567.33 . Pakistani President Arif Alvi said that the two neighbours were brotherly countries and should resolve issues through dialogue and mutual consultation . He , however , said Pakistan would not compromise on its national security and territorial integrity and would take " all necessary measures to defend its soil " . Caretaker Prime Minister Anwaarul-Haq-Kakar , who is in Davos to attend the World Economic Forum , cut his trip short to return home . Foreign Minister Jalil Abbas Jilani is also returning back from a trip to Uganda . On Wednesday , Jilani had told his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the attack by Iran seriously damaged the ties between the two nations and Pakistan reserved the right to respond to this " provocative act " . Sources in Pakistan said that shortly before 0600 hours ( local time ) today , the Joint Staff Headquarters of the Pakistan Armed Forces ordered lethal **26;260;TOOLONG precision airstrikes inside Iran , pre-authorised by the Government of Pakistan , to preemptively target and eliminate imminent terrorist threats to Pakistan . " These strikes were conducted successfully using Pakistan Air Force fighter jets using stand-off extended range munitions , while they remained inside Pakistani airspace , " a source said . The target locations , seven in total , were tagged for a strike after the presence of multiple high-value terrorist targets was confirmed following extensive aerial reconnaissance via unmanned aircraft . <p> ( This story has not been edited by THE WEEK and is auto-generated from PTI )
