<h> World struggling with ' new forms of inequity ' says Jaisankar as he calls for multipolar world with ' reformed ' UN <p> PTI Updated : January 19 , 2024 22:34 IST <p> Kampala , Jan 19 ( PTI ) External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Friday called for a multipolar world with a " reformed " United Nations at its core as he underlined that the world is struggling with " new forms of inequity and domination " . Addressing the Non-Aligned Movement summit at the Ugandan capital of Kampala , Jaishankar presented perspectives from India " guided by the belief in Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam , the world is a family " . He said the world has changed profoundly since the NAM met in Baku in 2019 . " We have all been ravaged by the Covid pandemic whose scars will take generations to heal . There are conflicts underway whose repercussions are felt far and wide . Gaza , in particular , is the focus of our concern , " the minister said . He said that climate change is increasingly and more regularly disruptive and there are a few who have not felt its impact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ challenges also weigh heavily on the development , " he said . Underlying these serious concerns , Jaishankar said , " is the nature of the world we confront " . " We may have overthrown the yoke of colonialism , but we struggle with new forms of inequity and domination , " he said . In the era of globalisation , there are economic concentrations that treat the rest of the world as simply markets or resources , he said . " Our smallest need is often manufactured furthest away . The anxieties of the Covid experience brought this home sharply . We are also subject to narratives of political correctness and universalism that do not give their due to our culture and traditions , " he said . " We must respond to these challenges , " he said . " A multipolar world with a reformed United Nations at its core is key . Economic decentralisation with greater regional production is so as well . But we must also press for cultural rebalancing where all heritage is mutually respected , " he added . By spearheading the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Presidency of the grouping that change is possible . This should inspire reformed multilateralism , the minister said . Jaishankar said transforming the world order requires practical steps . " Creating regional economic hubs , resilient supply chains , predictable mobility and trusted data flows are essential . So too are people-centric policies with sustainable lifestyles . Digital Public Infrastructure is an example of the promise that technology offers . Addressing food , energy and health security are critical , as is women-led development . " Connectivity must be prioritised while respecting sovereignty and ensuring viability . And climate action and SDG realisation must be adequately resourced if we are really serious , " he said . India , the minister said , demonstrated this commitment through 600 significant projects in 78 nations . " When Covid struck , we shared vaccines with 100 nations while still vaccinating our own . As natural disasters happened , we have often been first responders for the developing world . In chairing the G20 , we chose to convene and draw strength from the Global South . As Vishwa Mitra ( friend of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ share , " he said . Growth and progress , Jaishankar said , are based on peace and stability . " In our globalised existence , conflict anywhere has consequences everywhere . We saw that in regard to Ukraine when it came to our fuel , food and fertiliser supplies , " he said . On the Israel-Hamas conflict , Jaishankar said the conflict in Gaza is " understandably uppermost in our minds " . This " humanitarian crisis requires a sustainable solution " that gives immediate relief to those most affected , but " we must also be clear that terrorism and hostage-taking are unacceptable , " he said . At the same time , Jaishankar said that international humanitarian law must always be respected by all States . It is also imperative that conflict does not spread within or beyond the region , he said . " But in the final analysis , we must seek a two-state solution where the Palestinian people can live within secure borders . Our collective endeavours should focus on making this realisable , " he said . Noting that the NAM has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that period , the world has transformed and so too have our capabilities and confidence . We must be bolder in seeking our due and pressing our demands . The more we share , collaborate and reinforce each other , the more we will change the world . The voice of the NAM is here to be heard . The voice of the NAM is here to stay and to grow . " The NAM is a forum of 120 countries that are not formally aligned with or against any major power bloc . Jaishankar also applauded Uganda for taking up the NAM Chairship at this crucial juncture and recognised the former Chair , Azerbaijan , for leading the bloc during a difficult period . The minister also welcomed South Sudan as a new member . <p> ( This story has not been edited by THE WEEK and is auto-generated from PTI )
