<p> Kampala , Jan 20 ( PTI ) External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Saturday met UN chief Ant ? nio Guterres and leaders from at least half a dozen countries , including Iran and Sri Lanka , and discussed bilateral ties and issues of regional as well as global importance . Jaishankar , who is in the Ugandan capital Kampala to attend the two-day Non-Aligned Movement ( NAM ) summit , met UN Secretary-General Guterres on the sidelines of the conference . " A pleasure as always to meet with @UN Secretary-General @antonioguterres . Discussed Agenda 2030 , UN reforms , the West Asia situation , maritime security and the Ukraine conflict , " he posted on X along with one photograph of their meeting . On the sidelines of the NAM summit , Jaishankar also met Iran 's Vice President Mohammad Mokhber , Foreign Minister ? lvaro Leyva Dur ? n of Colombia and Secretary for Foreign Affairs of the Philippines Enrique A Manalo . Jaishankar said he had a " useful conversation " with the Iranian leader , with whom he spoke about " our bilateral ties as well as recent regional developments . " " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cooperation , " he wrote in his post on X. Jaishankar said he discussed " global issues and our bilateral ties " with his Columbian counterpart . " Great to meet @SecManalo of the Philippines . Assessed favourably developments in our trade , investment and security partnership . Discussed matters pertaining to security , stability and rule of law in the Indo-Pacific , " he said in another post on X. Jaishankar also called on Sri Lankan President Ranil Wickremesinghe and discussed the progress of bilateral initiatives . He also met newly-appointed Bangladesh Foreign Minister Mohammed Hasan Mahmud and hailed the bilateral relations , which are " growing from strength to strength . " Separately , he met foreign minister Palestine Riyad al-Maliki and held a " detailed and comprehensive discussion " on the ongoing conflict in the Gaza Strip . Early on the second day of the NAM summit , Jaishankar also caught up with General Odongo Jeje , Uganda 's Minister of Foreign Affairs . " Delighted to begin the day with my dear friend @GenJejeOdongo . Thanked him for the excellent arrangements for the NAM Summit . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " he posted on X. " Noted the progress in our bilateral cooperation since my April 2023 visit . Direct flights , training &amp; exchanges , and commencement of the NFSU campus are among notable developments , " he added . On Friday , the minister held a series of similar bilateral meetings with his counterparts from Bahrain , Serbia , Bolivia , Azerbaijan , and Venezuela . Held under the leadership of Uganda , the NAM summit brought together more than 120 developing countries on the platform of crucial historic significance for the Global South . From Kampala , Jaishankar will travel to Nigeria for a three-day visit from January 21 . <p> ( This story has not been edited by THE WEEK and is auto-generated from PTI )
