<h> Nobel Peace Prize nominations close with Ukraine and Gaza on agenda <p> STAVANGERM , Jan 31 : The doors close Wednesday on nominations for the 2024 Nobel Peace Prize , with peace activists connected to the wars in Gaza and Ukraine among the known entries . The Norwegian Nobel Committee keeps the nominations secret , but those with nomination rights sometimes make their picks public . Attempts to find an end the war in Gaza have been a theme for some of the announced nominations . Academics at the Free University Amsterdam said they have nominated the Middle East-based organisations EcoPeace , Women Wage Peace and Women of the Sun for peace efforts between Israelis and Palestinians . " They are bringing communities together to build peace in the Middle East with a special focus on the role of women and climate justice , " the university 's Peace and Conflict Studies department wrote . Norwegian lawmaker Ingvild Wetrhus Thorsvik told newspaper VG that she had nominated Palestinian video journalist Motaz Azaiza for documenting conditions in Gaza . The prestigious prize typically attracts more than 300 entries from academics connected with peace studies , lawmakers of national parliaments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ International Peace Bureau organisation , which won the prize in 1910 , said it had nominated The Russian Movement of Conscientious Objectors and The Ukrainian Pacifist Movement for their commitment to the protection of conscientious objectors to violence , particularly after the Russian invasion of Ukraine in February 2022 . The Belarusian organisation Our House , was also nominated for the same reason . The Norwegian Nobel Committee whittles down the list of candidates in a series of meetings before announcing the winner in October . The wide base of individuals and organisations qualified to nominate candidates means the longlist can contain some eccentric choices : Both Joseph Stalin and Adolf Hitler have previously had their names put in the hat . Imprisoned Iranian activist Narges Mohammadi won the 2023 Nobel Peace Prize for campaigning for women 's rights and democracy in her country . Her teenage children accepted the award on her behalf . The peace prize and the other Nobel Prizes are handed out on December 10 , the anniversary of prize founder Alfred Nobel 's death in 1896 . ( AP )
