<h> US does n't seek another war : White House on drone strike by Iran-backed group <p> WASHINGTON , Jan 30 : A day after three US troops were killed in a drone strike in Jordan , the White House on Monday said it does not want to seek another war or escalate the tension , but would absolutely do what is required to protect itself in the region . John Kirby , Coordinator for Strategic Communications at the National Security Council in the White House , told reporters at a news conference here that the attack also sent more than 30 US soldiers to hospital , some with serious injuries . " These troops were conducting a vital mission in the region , aimed at helping US work with partners to counter ISIS . And even as the Defense Department gathers more information about the attack , that mission must and will continue , " he said . " The counter-ISIS mission is separate and distinct .. Indeed it has been longstanding and unrelated to our efforts to support Israel and to prevent a wider conflict in the region , " Kirby said . " We do not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But we will absolutely do what is required to protect ourselves , to continue that mission , and to respond appropriately to these attacks , " he asserted . President Joe Biden , he said , has met with his national security team twice and is weighing various options before him . " He 's weighing the options before him . As he said yesterday , we will respond . We 'll do that on our schedule , in our own time . And we 'll do it in a manner of the President 's choosing as Commander-in-Chief , " Kirby said . " We 'll also do it fully cognizant of the fact that these groups , backed by Tehran , have just taken the lives of American troops , " he added . At a separate press conference with NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg , US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said his country would respond to the attack on its soldiers in Jordan . US troops long have used Jordan , a kingdom bordering Iraq , Israel , the Palestinian territory of the West Bank , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The President 's been crystal clear . We will respond decisively to any aggression . We will hold responsible the people who attacked our troops . We 'll do so at a time and a place of our choosing . At the same time , we remain focused on our core objectives in the region , both in terms of the conflict in Gaza and broader efforts to build truly durable peace and security , " Blinken said . Offering his deepest condolences for the US troops killed and wounded in the drone attack in Jordan , Stoltenberg said NATO sees Iran continue to destabilize the region . " Iran also bears responsibility for backing terrorists who attack ships in the Red Sea . Tehran 's behaviour reminds us of what a world without rules looks like , unpredictable and dangerous , a world where our security becomes more expensive , " he said . ( PTI )
