<p> We are currently undergoing maintenance on some services , which may temporarily affect access to subscription accounts and the E-edition . We apologize for any inconvenience and appreciate your patience as we work to resolve the issues . <h> Southeast Nebraska speaks up : Letters to the editor for the week of Mar. 14 , 2025 <p> I 'm writing as a resident of Lincoln who uses Medicaid and Social Security to survive . <p> If Medicaid was terminated , I would not be able to receive any medical care . I would not be able to afford my diabetes medication or the ventilator and oxygen that I use at night that keeps me alive while I sleep . I would not be able to eat every day if I were not getting some frozen meals that Medicaid supplies . This lets me eat one meal a day . It allows me a Life Alert button . I have in-home caregivers who come each day for a few hours to help me . This allows me to stay in my home instead of going to a nursing home where I would live for the next 30 to 40 years or be homeless . <p> Medicaid is my only option . Previously I worked 2-3 jobs at a time to support my family . Now I can no longer work . If you 've never needed Medicaid or Social Security , it may not seem important to you . But the fact is , if Social Security or Medicaid ended , people will die . <p> Please talk to your elected officials and put pressure on them to keep these programs in place . Please get involved and do n't just look the other way . I am just one of many people with similar stories . This is not politics , it is not liberal or conservative , it is life or death . <p> I have been fighting since I was 16 to receive the same autonomy , dignity and civil rights as every American . I am nearly 40 and I am heartbroken to see that things have not changed . I have been attacked , denied services and treated as though I was " less than " because I dared to live as my authentic self . This devastates me . I would hope by now that my nephew would have had a better world to walk in . It breaks my heart for him to know I may be wrong . I would like to see a Nebraska where we can tolerate and accept that we have differences . It is those differences that make us so much greater than we think . <p> We need different perspectives to grow our understanding . I would love to see a Nebraska where we can accept that the LGBTQIA+ community has always existed , from our tiniest towns where we talk in family whispers about " Uncle Ron 's roommate Bill " to our largest cities where protesters take to the streets . We are many voices . We are many cultures . We are many peoples . The LGBTQIA+ Community is as much Nebraskan as the conservative legislator . Nebraska is a patchwork coat , and it is up to us to wear that with pride . <p> Silvio Berlusconi was prime minister of Italy for nine years between 1994 and 2011 . There are many similarities between him and Donald Trump . Both were media stars without any political experience . Both engaged in repeated outrageous behavior and both would say whatever came to their mind without concern for consequences . <p> In Italy , as in the U.S. , the left was gobsmacked with the idea that people could possibly be attracted to him and his message . The left concentrated almost exclusively on his behavior with the notion that the latest outrage would surely be the last straw and the right would see the error of their ways and reject Berlusconi . <p> In fact , all this criticism only served to solidify his core supporters and even generate some sympathy among moderates . And he kept getting reelected ! Sound familiar ? How did the opposition ultimately oust him ? They stopped concentrating on his behavior and started treating him like any other candidate . <p> The opposition articulated their case on policies and entered into substantive political debate on the issues . In this country it seems that the Democrats are so consumed by their outrage that they do n't even try to enter into serious debate . <p> Now , it could be argued that the Republicans are blocking that debate and will not engage . If that is the case ( and I think it is ) then the Democrats have to go directly to the American people with their vision for America . Maybe we can learn something from the Italians . <p> As we sat in darkness , we had no doubt that our electric company 's crews were doing whatever it took to restore power . These workers who braved extreme winds and icy conditions are heroes . I thank everyone who worked in the elements during the blizzard , including snowplow drivers , police officers , sheriffs , other first responders , truck drivers , railroad workers , medical couriers , etc . <p> I also saw a neighboring farmer help dig out a stranded driver . Our communities are safer and stronger because of everyday heroes who help others ! <p> Two questions : 1 ) if the goal is to cut government expenses , is n't it defeating that goal to enact tariffs and then compensate farmers for their losses , which could amount to billions , not to mention higher prices paid by consumers ? Will farmers be totally compensated , or will they still be on the losing end ? Why the tariffs ? <p> 2 ) if the goal of cutting off all USAID funding is to cut expenses , is n't this yet another way of cutting off additional income to our farmers ? Will our farmers be compensated for their losses here as well ? If so , would n't it be so much better to allow our farmers to grow their crops and sell them to the government to help alleviate starvation in poorer countries ? That would seem to be more like a win-win . <p> The article stated that 2019 tariffs imposed by Trump led China to the negotiating table " though China later reneged on it . " In 2020 , Trump called the USMCA , which he signed with Mexico and Canada , the most beautiful trade agreement ever . By enacting tariffs on these partners , Trump is reneging on our own negotiated agreement , just like China did . <p> Let 's let our farmers farm and be successful . They have enough potential hazards with the weather ; they do n't need spastic policy cutting off their markets . <p> I pose the question to the editor , the Nebraska Legislature , the Labor and Business Committee and to the reader : Whose side are you on ? Do you side with the worker or employer ? Do you side with C-Suite or people in the street ? <p> While in the hearings for LB258 and LB698 , it 's become apparent the Labor and Business committees are disconnected from their constituents . Terrell McKinney is the sole senator who understands that lawmakers are abandoning the will of the voter to appease the corporate elites . <p> These elites pin the small-business owners against their workforces . The elites force the small farmers to pay exorbitant amounts to fix their harvester . Force the farmers to strip benefits so they can pay the corporate fee of business as usual . Elites overcharge small businesses that can not buy in bulk , then applaud bills that cut the wages of our youths to fund a second home , jet and exotic vacations for their grossly wealthy families . Why stifle the growth of the youths and working class ? Why take from those struggling to survive , just to give to these wealthy corporations ? Whose side are you on ? <p> As for me ; I 'm with Abraham Lincoln , " Labor is the superior of capital , and deserves much the higher consideration . " <p> This is an urgent plea to members of the Nebraska congressional delegation to act as statesmen and support and preserve our democratic form of government from excesses perpetrated by President Trump . <p> The Founding Fathers crafted our Constitution with three separate branches with a system of checks and balances , which have , for years , prevented any one branch from dominating or obtaining control . <p> Recent events show that our system is broken because Congress fails to step in and curb Trump 's excesses . It is clear that Trump has chosen a cabinet that will obey his edicts unquestionably . Now he is moving to purge from government any federal employees who may rein him in . <p> George Santana wisely noted , " Those who do not know history are doomed to repeat it . " Have we forgotten how dictators in the past rose to power by eliminating all dissent ? <p> So far , the Judicial Branch is checking Trump 's excesses by restraining and enjoining his unconstitutional executive orders . Now Trump wants Congress to pass a law saying the lower federal courts ( District and Court of Appeals ) will no longer have the power to issue such orders . <p> Please act as statement , not partisan politicians , and rein in Trump . Under no circumstances should you vote in favor of a law that curbs the power of lower federal courts to enjoin and restrain executive orders that are unconstitutional or violate laws enacted by Congress . <p> Did we ever think there would come a time when the Republican Party would advise their elected members to discontinue town hall meetings ? They are supposed to work for us ; should n't they want to hear us ? We 're paying these people a lot of money only to be ignored . <p> The current state of affairs in Washington include Republican-imposed tariffs , 70,000 workers fired from the VA , cutting medical services to millions of Americans in need and gutting many other essential services . <p> It is shocking that through all this chaos , our representatives from Nebraska are silent , or dismissive . Every politician brags during their election campaign that they will lower our taxes . The tariffs are a tax on us , hemorrhaging trade , causing markets for our farmers to tank , which makes Republicans roll out billions in tax-funded subsidies for farmers , which creates another tax on us . <p> Farmers want open markets , not welfare . Neither of these tax increases are necessary , and are quite the opposite intention of a candidate who promised to lower food costs and inflation . Eventually our trading partners will move on to a more reliable source they can trust . All this in the first few weeks . <p> Our president is attacking our friends , supporting our enemies , feeding inflation and ignoring us . Our Nebraska delegation needs to grow a spine and start fighting for the people who elected them . <p> Jane Raybould seems to be under the impression that she was elected to represent her family business . I would like to remind her that she was elected to represent her constituents and many of us ( over 58% ) voted for the ballot initiative to increase the minimum wage for hard-working Nebraskans . Your job , Jane , is to represent us , not your personal financial interests . <p> It 's time that Nebraska AG Mike Hilgers spends more time paying attention to Nebraska matters than inserting his opinions and energy on other states ' and national issues . He really missed the boat in filing charges against Trevor Jones , former director of the Nebraska Historical Society ( then Nebraska History ) . Mr. Jones was charged with mishandling more than $270,000 in funds during an incident during COVID-19 in 2020 , but Judge Susan Strong ruled that Hilgers filed charges beyond the statute of limitations . So now the AG 's office is appealing that decision . Mr. Hilgers , you are a public servant paid with taxpayer money , so do your job or step down if you ca n't understand how/when to file charges . <p> I recently read the whole editorial page in the March 2 Lincoln Journal Star dedicated to Dave Bundy , a great editor and a very thoughtful human being . I also had the privilege of interacting with Dave as one of the active letter writers in LJS . I quote below a part of an column , entitled " Cultivating a community of conversation " that Dave wrote about recently in the LJS . <p> " If you 're a regular reader of the Journal Star 's Opinion page you know the name Sitaram Jaswal . <p> " If you 're not , Jaswal is a frequent letter writer . He 's so frequent , in fact that his son Vikram , with some help from daughter Sheila , compiled a book -- a Christmas present -- with more than 130 letters he wrote from 1982 to 2023 . The 162-page book ( is ) titled ' Activism Through Letters ' ... <p> " It 's is hard to imagine too many writers more dedicated than Jaswal . Searching by writer is difficult with our computer system before 2003 or 2004 , but some of our other frequent fliers in the past two decades are Larry McClung , Ron Holscher , Ricky Fulton and Fran Kaye , each with between 30 and 60 letters . " <p> I feel sincerely that I can not describe any better than this quotation from his editorial as to what it says about Dave regarding his dedication to his job as an editor and his regard and care of the members of the readers like myself who interacted with him . This is based on my numerous interactions with him dealing with all the letters I wrote . He was always courteous in suggesting improvements to the letters of this science major who was happy to accept them ! Finally , I will always have the fond memories of interacting with him for many years . I offer my heartfelt sympathies to his family for their loss . <p> Thank you for your mentorship , for always taking what often started as a passionate , likely frustrated rough draft with a few salient points into something worth publishing . You always did so objectively and compassionately with a solution-oriented response . My pearls of wisdom to share from you are to be objective , be factual and be compassionate . Do n't use words like every , always and never since they are very concrete and do n't allow a lot of space for grace . <p> As far as Ukraine goes , blaming Trump is like the principal of a school blaming a janitor for the way he is cleaning up the cafeteria after the staff allowed the children to have a food fight all day long . <p> Trump should just walk away and let the primary humans involved settle it . He 's man enough to step in and take a few arrows from the weak and then settle the problem . If the primary humans do n't like it , they can say no . I 'd bet Trump would be happy enough to pick the USA 's ball and come home . After all , the only reasons NATO or the EU are even halfway ready is because Trump forced them to be . A new EU army . Imagine that . <p> None of this is on Trump . It is Biden 's , Blinken 's , Sullivan 's , NATO 's and the rest of the Western world 's mess to clean up . <p> Fifty years ago the United States had a population of 216 million and a federal work force of 2 million . Today the population is 340 million with 2.2 million federal workers serving the public to create a more perfect union , establish justice , promote the general welfare , etc. , per the preamble to the Constitution . These are the people who help make our country great . They are not the ones committing fraud and waste . <p> The billionaire class is tearing the nation apart . They do not want to pay a fair share of taxes but want to accumulate more by defrauding labor and workers . Elon Musk contributed $250 million to Trump 's election . That does not give him the right to fire federal workers . Musk was not elected by anyone and is accountable to no one . Trump has surrounded himself by and is beholden to billionaires . <p> Why is Nebraska 's Congressional delegation silent regarding the abuse of the Constitution ? Why do they follow the directive of a man who was convicted by a jury on 34 counts of fraud ? Why do they look the other way when it is our freedom being trashed and wasted as more power is stolen by the oligarchs by their spreading of disinformation ? <p> I know why the newspaper industry is on a downhill slide . It 's called biased journalism . The March 6 edition of the Lincoln Journal Star is enough to make most conservatives cancel their subscriptions . Why ? Because on the front page ( where the really important news should be ) is the headline " Fact-checking Trump 's address to Congress . " <p> My first thought ? Where was this front-page headline the past four years when Joe Biden was lying to us ? Remember when he said he could n't do anything about illegal immigration until Congress gave him the tools ? Really ? Because in recent days under Trump , the number of daily crossings has dropped to less than 300 . Nowhere near the 10,000 per day under Biden . Additionally , in his State of the Union address in March 2024 , Biden said about Trump 's spending during his first term : " They added more to the national debt than any presidential term in American history . Check the numbers . " <p> Turns out they did , Joe , and the national debt had actually continued to increase under Biden . As of the day before Biden 's address , it was about $34.4 trillion , which amounts to an increase of about 24% during the first three years of his term . <p> There were so many more lies and mischaracterizations and truth stretching during Biden 's speeches over the years but none of it made the front page under the guise of " fact-checking . " <p> So why is it the LJS decides only Trump 's address to Congress is worthy of disputing on the front page ? One word : bias . <p> Throughout these past few weeks , the people of Nebraska have watched , heard about , and experienced the wrecking ball tearing through our national government . We have questions and we want answers . <p> Why does an unelected immigrant , like Elon Musk , have his hand on the throttle that guides that wrecking ball ? Why does the United States now stand with Russia , Iran and North Korea in a UN vote against Ukraine ? Why do farmers in Nebraska need to worry about dropping grain prices because of tariffs ? <p> Why are top career generals who are expert and even-tempered fired from the Pentagon ? Why are senior legal officers let go without cause from our armed services ? Why do federal workers receive emails that demand to know what they have been doing or they will be fired ? Why have 75-plus lawsuits been filed against the current national administration ? Why do we have to live with all this chaos ? <p> And , finally why are there no town-hall meetings in Nebraska by Sen. Deb Fischer , Sen. Pete Ricketts and Rep. Mike Flood where the constituents of this state have the opportunity to get answers ? There are deep and extensive concerns about what is happening right now in our country and the people of Nebraska deserve answers . When is that going to happen ? <p> Sometimes a young athlete will choose to cop an attitude with the coach . The consequences ? The whole team has to run laps . <p> Students and probably some adult staff choose to disregard the rules about vaping in a school building . The consequence ? The school district spends millions for vape detectors . <p> If a family member leaves a lighted candle unattended and a fire breaks out , the whole family experiences the consequences . <p> In our democracy , 49.7% of voters chose to vote for a convicted felon , who took home classified documents and refused to return them . The same guy who avoided military service and said soldiers who risked their lives were suckers . <p> The consequences ? Too many to list . The entire nation . <p> So many of us experiencing the consequences of the choices of that 49.7% . <p> Just read another story about a victim of abuse dying at the hands of the abuser . The system needs to be fixed . All restraining orders do is put the violence on record . They ca n't stop a bullet . The system should be made for it to be nearly impossible for the abuser to be free . And every crime should be a federal crime . No time off for good behavior . All victims should be put in protective custody . My feelings , being a survivor myself , would be that the abuser gets the same treatment he gave his victim . <p> Every generation sees that the news is all doom and gloom . Every generation believes that their crises are a sign of the " end times " -- some political or spiritual apocalypse looming on the horizon like a mushroom cloud . But these days , with every day seemingly another " bad day for American foreign policy , " to quote Don Bacon , it 's hard not to look at the state of the world and wonder if it 's really true . <p> I tell you , it 's a lie . Peter Kropotkin wrote that " the species in which peace and mutual support are the rule , prosper , while the unsociable species decay . " Should we be so unsociable so as to claim , from a state of inaction , from behind our screens , that the world is falling apart , and then simply watch the pieces fall ? Could the honeybees uphold entire ecosystems without their mutual collective effort ? <p> You , reader , are just one person . But you have the power to do what is in your control -- to , from this moment forward , start making choices that shape your life into one that is more sociable , healthy , and resilient -- and this is a great power . It 's an unimaginable power for every person to start doing at once . <p> With over a month since Trump 's inauguration , I 'll offer some observations . <p> The GOP lauded Trump 's massive cuts to reduce government 's size . The Senate 's proposed budget would increase spending by $340 billion . The GOP-headed Budget Committee has proposed raising the debt limit by $4.5 trillion . Trump wants to extend his first-term tax cuts for billionaires and corporations . If all this reduces spending , why does the debt ceiling need to be raised ? <p> Many GOP representatives are asking for exemptions from Trump 's massive cuts for their states , after realizing the negative consequences the cuts have had to their constituents . <p> Trump claims that his tariffs will make our economy healthy , but he contradicted that , by stating , " this will cause some pain " for American consumers . <p> In January 2024 , Trump promised he would keep America out of the Middle East . Now , he wants America to seize the bombed-out Gaza strip , create a new " Riviera " of that region , and evict the 2 million Palestinians who currently reside there . <p> Trump claimed he could end the war in Ukraine in 24 hours . A month later , the war continues . Talks , including the U.S. , Russia and Saudi Arabia , have excluded Ukraine . <p> Republicans have always been anti-Russia . GOP chairman of the Senate Arms Services Committee , Sen. Roger Wicker , stated that Putin " is a war criminal , who should be arrested , incarcerated and possibly executed " . GOP Sen. Thom Tillis has stated that Putin is a " cancer " to the free world , and " the biggest threat to democracy . " So , why does Trump want America to align with Putin ? <p> If there is widespread fraud and abuse of federal employees , why has n't anyone been charged ? <p> Lots of questions and issues that Trump 's administration has avoided addressing . The public needs to keep holding his feet to the fire . <p> I served in the U.S. Army for 20 years , the last four years in counterterrorism . <p> Four things happened in the past month , a couple most recently . <p> These events should immediately raise the hackles of every person in this country , whether you pay attention or not to current events . Yes , there is whiplash from the ping-ponging of information and disinformation coming from Washington , D.C. , I get that . <p> Recently , Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth ordered the stoppage of cyber and information actions against Russia by the U.S. Cyber Command , and the Homeland Security 's Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency ( CISA ) no longer focuses on Russian threats . <p> On her first day in office , Attorney General Pam Bondi ended the Task Force KleptoCapture that targets Russian oligarchs and enforces sanctions , and finally , the Justice Department disbanded the Foreign Influence Task Force . <p> I have asked Sens . Deb Fischer and Pete Ricketts these two questions : Do you believe Russia is still a threat to the United States ? Do you believe this is " just an effort " to " warm " relations ? <p> I have warned them when Russia takes over the United States , they will lose their positions . Trust me , that will come now that our elected officials have not stopped this from happening . <p> Look in the mirror , are you doing enough to save this democracy ? As a small person in my little space of the universe , there is n't much I can do . But collectively , we had a chance 10 years ago to keep on the guardrails . <p> The homeowners and landlords in our state may be unaware of what the Legislature has done to rob them of a significant property tax credit that was promised to them . <p> It is quite complicated , so I wo n't go into the details , but the public needs to understand that LB81 , introduced by Sen. Hardin with bipartisan cosponsors , is sitting in the Revenue Committee right now and can fix this . <p> It must pass or there will be no refund . For the average homeowner , this refund is probably worth a thousand dollars or more and is taken when you file your state income tax . If your property taxes are paid in your mortgage payment , you will not get your money back unless LB81 passes . If they pass it after you file your taxes by April 15 , you will have to amend your taxes to get your refund , unless you file an extension . They have our money already ; it 's about giving it back to us now . Otherwise , this will be the largest tax increase in the history of Nebraska . <p> There is much misinformation surrounding this , so do n't get confused . Contact the Revenue Committee and your state senator at nebraskalegislature.gov and tell them to pass LB81 so you can get your refund . <p> I am very passionate about bringing awareness to the overall safety of women . Women have constant worries about their own safety in many everyday situations . <p> As a woman , you have to always be very conscious of your surroundings . For example , women are not allowed to walk alone at night and carry things like pepper spray on their keys in case they get into uncomfortable situations . Women are taught at a young age that they need to pay attention to all of their surroundings in order to stay safe . <p> This article and story stood out to me because it was about a woman who was shot and was looking for help and protection . Sadly , many women become stuck in abusive or toxic situations like this because they are scared to leave . The women who have the bravery to reach out and seek help deserve to be protected . Women deserve to feel safe , especially when they are seeking help . Women 's safety is overlooked so often , and it 's not fair that women have to be so conscious of their own safety . As a society , we need to pay more attention to why women feel unsafe in situations and look for solutions to protect women and keep them safe to avoid situations like this or other situations in the future . <p> For the world to see , Trump once again showed himself to be the crude , empty-headed lout that he really is . <p> Where there should have been sophistication and statesmanship , he spewed the usual insults and bullying when he could n't cower Zelenskyy into signing onto a deal that would have given Ukraine absolutely no protection against the murderous Putin . <p> I am profoundly concerned about the barrage of attacks on the very fabric of our republic and the lack of response from our state 's residents and leaders . Not just has the Republican Party lost its way , it has demolished it . Eisenhower , Reagan , Bush , they are all turning over in their graves . <p> What has happened to the party of : <p> * Law and order , transparency and accountability ? <p> * Free-speech advocacy ? We are literally eviscerating the First Amendment by disallowing the use of specific words . <p> * Foreign-policy hawks , who know that a global political vacuum will be filled , quickly , by another player ? <p> * Economic competition and free trade champions ? <p> * " Passionate conservatism " ? <p> If you think that this is n't your problem , because the schoolyard bullies will only go after " other people , " remember this is how fascism always takes root . You will regret your spinelessness , and even 80 years from now , the world will ask : How could they ? Why did n't they do something to stop this ? It is time to stand up and actively resist , rather than duck and cover and mollify the goons . It 's time to call a spade a spade . And a fascist a fascist . Who knows , showing you have a spine might just help save the republic . Your grandchildren will thank you . <p> Hello . This is Senator Deb Fischer . ... If you would like to leave a message , please press 1 . <p> Staff in the offices of Nebraska 's congressional representatives admit , if asked , that they 're getting lots of calls , and it 's tough getting through " due to the high volume . " That frustrates people who want to know when our reps might exercise some oversight as President Donald Trump and Elon Musk blur the lines between the branches of the government and wreak havoc on its workforce . It 's enough to make a constituent want to shout : REP*RE*SEN*TA*TIVE ! ! ! <p> Hi ! This is U.S. Senator Pete Ricketts , representing the great state of Nebraska ! <p> They say they support Ukraine , but days after Trump had a tantrum and kicked the Ukrainian president out of the White House , then paused aid to the beleaguered nation , one could find nothing about it on their websites . And , no one answered the phone . Maybe the senators and Rep. Mike Flood did n't realize it was all part of the show . Maybe they missed the part where Trump said , " This is going to be great television , " even while the debacle was unfolding . <p> Hi , this is Mike Flood . ... We 're unable to take your call right now . <p> Slash Veterans Administration jobs ? Nothing from our guys . Fire weather forecasters ? Who needs ' em ? And no word when they fired more than 350 people in nuclear energy jobs , or when all but 28 were rehired immediately because , you know , they look after things like nuclear weapons . <p> Hello ? <p> You may have missed it when House Speaker Mike Johnson said of crowded town halls : " These are Democrats who went to the events early and filled up the seats . " It 's almost like Republicans think they represent only those constituents who voted for them . Queries about when our delegation will host town halls , well , they went to voicemail . <p> Catharine Huddle , Lincoln <h> More like this ... <p> I 'm writing as a resident of Lincoln who uses Medicaid and Social Security to survive . <p> If Medicaid was terminated , I would not be able to receive any medical care . I would not be able to afford my diabetes medication or the ventilator and oxygen that I use at night that keeps me alive while I sleep . I would not be able to eat every day if I were not getting some frozen meals that Medicaid supplies . This lets me eat one meal a day . It allows me a Life Alert button . I have in-home caregivers who come each day for a few hours to help me . This allows me to stay in my home instead of going to a nursing home where I would live for the next 30 to 40 years or be homeless . <p> Medicaid is my only option . Previously I worked 2-3 jobs at a time to support my family . Now I can no longer work . If you 've never needed Medicaid or Social Security , it may not seem important to you . But the fact is , if Social Security or Medicaid ended , people will die . <p> Please talk to your elected officials and put pressure on them to keep these programs in place . Please get involved and do n't just look the other way . I am just one of many people with similar stories . This is not politics , it is not liberal or conservative , it is life or death . <p> I have been fighting since I was 16 to receive the same autonomy , dignity and civil rights as every American . I am nearly 40 and I am heartbroken to see that things have not changed . I have been attacked , denied services and treated as though I was " less than " because I dared to live as my authentic self . This devastates me . I would hope by now that my nephew would have had a better world to walk in . It breaks my heart for him to know I may be wrong . I would like to see a Nebraska where we can tolerate and accept that we have differences . It is those differences that make us so much greater than we think . <p> We need different perspectives to grow our understanding . I would love to see a Nebraska where we can accept that the LGBTQIA+ community has always existed , from our tiniest towns where we talk in family whispers about " Uncle Ron 's roommate Bill " to our largest cities where protesters take to the streets . We are many voices . We are many cultures . We are many peoples . The LGBTQIA+ Community is as much Nebraskan as the conservative legislator . Nebraska is a patchwork coat , and it is up to us to wear that with pride . <p> Silvio Berlusconi was prime minister of Italy for nine years between 1994 and 2011 . There are many similarities between him and Donald Trump . Both were media stars without any political experience . Both engaged in repeated outrageous behavior and both would say whatever came to their mind without concern for consequences . <p> In Italy , as in the U.S. , the left was gobsmacked with the idea that people could possibly be attracted to him and his message . The left concentrated almost exclusively on his behavior with the notion that the latest outrage would surely be the last straw and the right would see the error of their ways and reject Berlusconi . <p> In fact , all this criticism only served to solidify his core supporters and even generate some sympathy among moderates . And he kept getting reelected ! Sound familiar ? How did the opposition ultimately oust him ? They stopped concentrating on his behavior and started treating him like any other candidate . <p> The opposition articulated their case on policies and entered into substantive political debate on the issues . In this country it seems that the Democrats are so consumed by their outrage that they do n't even try to enter into serious debate . <p> Now , it could be argued that the Republicans are blocking that debate and will not engage . If that is the case ( and I think it is ) then the Democrats have to go directly to the American people with their vision for America . Maybe we can learn something from the Italians . <p> As we sat in darkness , we had no doubt that our electric company 's crews were doing whatever it took to restore power . These workers who braved extreme winds and icy conditions are heroes . I thank everyone who worked in the elements during the blizzard , including snowplow drivers , police officers , sheriffs , other first responders , truck drivers , railroad workers , medical couriers , etc . <p> I also saw a neighboring farmer help dig out a stranded driver . Our communities are safer and stronger because of everyday heroes who help others ! <p> Two questions : 1 ) if the goal is to cut government expenses , is n't it defeating that goal to enact tariffs and then compensate farmers for their losses , which could amount to billions , not to mention higher prices paid by consumers ? Will farmers be totally compensated , or will they still be on the losing end ? Why the tariffs ? <p> 2 ) if the goal of cutting off all USAID funding is to cut expenses , is n't this yet another way of cutting off additional income to our farmers ? Will our farmers be compensated for their losses here as well ? If so , would n't it be so much better to allow our farmers to grow their crops and sell them to the government to help alleviate starvation in poorer countries ? That would seem to be more like a win-win . <p> The article stated that 2019 tariffs imposed by Trump led China to the negotiating table " though China later reneged on it . " In 2020 , Trump called the USMCA , which he signed with Mexico and Canada , the most beautiful trade agreement ever . By enacting tariffs on these partners , Trump is reneging on our own negotiated agreement , just like China did . <p> Let 's let our farmers farm and be successful . They have enough potential hazards with the weather ; they do n't need spastic policy cutting off their markets . <p> I pose the question to the editor , the Nebraska Legislature , the Labor and Business Committee and to the reader : Whose side are you on ? Do you side with the worker or employer ? Do you side with C-Suite or people in the street ? <p> While in the hearings for LB258 and LB698 , it 's become apparent the Labor and Business committees are disconnected from their constituents . Terrell McKinney is the sole senator who understands that lawmakers are abandoning the will of the voter to appease the corporate elites . <p> These elites pin the small-business owners against their workforces . The elites force the small farmers to pay exorbitant amounts to fix their harvester . Force the farmers to strip benefits so they can pay the corporate fee of business as usual . Elites overcharge small businesses that can not buy in bulk , then applaud bills that cut the wages of our youths to fund a second home , jet and exotic vacations for their grossly wealthy families . Why stifle the growth of the youths and working class ? Why take from those struggling to survive , just to give to these wealthy corporations ? Whose side are you on ? <p> As for me ; I 'm with Abraham Lincoln , " Labor is the superior of capital , and deserves much the higher consideration . " <p> This is an urgent plea to members of the Nebraska congressional delegation to act as statesmen and support and preserve our democratic form of government from excesses perpetrated by President Trump . <p> The Founding Fathers crafted our Constitution with three separate branches with a system of checks and balances , which have , for years , prevented any one branch from dominating or obtaining control . <p> Recent events show that our system is broken because Congress fails to step in and curb Trump 's excesses . It is clear that Trump has chosen a cabinet that will obey his edicts unquestionably . Now he is moving to purge from government any federal employees who may rein him in . <p> George Santana wisely noted , " Those who do not know history are doomed to repeat it . " Have we forgotten how dictators in the past rose to power by eliminating all dissent ? <p> So far , the Judicial Branch is checking Trump 's excesses by restraining and enjoining his unconstitutional executive orders . Now Trump wants Congress to pass a law saying the lower federal courts ( District and Court of Appeals ) will no longer have the power to issue such orders . <p> Please act as statement , not partisan politicians , and rein in Trump . Under no circumstances should you vote in favor of a law that curbs the power of lower federal courts to enjoin and restrain executive orders that are unconstitutional or violate laws enacted by Congress . <p> Did we ever think there would come a time when the Republican Party would advise their elected members to discontinue town hall meetings ? They are supposed to work for us ; should n't they want to hear us ? We 're paying these people a lot of money only to be ignored . <p> The current state of affairs in Washington include Republican-imposed tariffs , 70,000 workers fired from the VA , cutting medical services to millions of Americans in need and gutting many other essential services . <p> It is shocking that through all this chaos , our representatives from Nebraska are silent , or dismissive . Every politician brags during their election campaign that they will lower our taxes . The tariffs are a tax on us , hemorrhaging trade , causing markets for our farmers to tank , which makes Republicans roll out billions in tax-funded subsidies for farmers , which creates another tax on us . <p> Farmers want open markets , not welfare . Neither of these tax increases are necessary , and are quite the opposite intention of a candidate who promised to lower food costs and inflation . Eventually our trading partners will move on to a more reliable source they can trust . All this in the first few weeks . <p> Our president is attacking our friends , supporting our enemies , feeding inflation and ignoring us . Our Nebraska delegation needs to grow a spine and start fighting for the people who elected them . <p> Jane Raybould seems to be under the impression that she was elected to represent her family business . I would like to remind her that she was elected to represent her constituents and many of us ( over 58% ) voted for the ballot initiative to increase the minimum wage for hard-working Nebraskans . Your job , Jane , is to represent us , not your personal financial interests . <p> It 's time that Nebraska AG Mike Hilgers spends more time paying attention to Nebraska matters than inserting his opinions and energy on other states ' and national issues . He really missed the boat in filing charges against Trevor Jones , former director of the Nebraska Historical Society ( then Nebraska History ) . Mr. Jones was charged with mishandling more than $270,000 in funds during an incident during COVID-19 in 2020 , but Judge Susan Strong ruled that Hilgers filed charges beyond the statute of limitations . So now the AG 's office is appealing that decision . Mr. Hilgers , you are a public servant paid with taxpayer money , so do your job or step down if you ca n't understand how/when to file charges . <p> I recently read the whole editorial page in the March 2 Lincoln Journal Star dedicated to Dave Bundy , a great editor and a very thoughtful human being . I also had the privilege of interacting with Dave as one of the active letter writers in LJS . I quote below a part of an column , entitled " Cultivating a community of conversation " that Dave wrote about recently in the LJS . <p> " If you 're a regular reader of the Journal Star 's Opinion page you know the name Sitaram Jaswal . <p> " If you 're not , Jaswal is a frequent letter writer . He 's so frequent , in fact that his son Vikram , with some help from daughter Sheila , compiled a book -- a Christmas present -- with more than 130 letters he wrote from 1982 to 2023 . The 162-page book ( is ) titled ' Activism Through Letters ' ... <p> " It 's is hard to imagine too many writers more dedicated than Jaswal . Searching by writer is difficult with our computer system before 2003 or 2004 , but some of our other frequent fliers in the past two decades are Larry McClung , Ron Holscher , Ricky Fulton and Fran Kaye , each with between 30 and 60 letters . " <p> I feel sincerely that I can not describe any better than this quotation from his editorial as to what it says about Dave regarding his dedication to his job as an editor and his regard and care of the members of the readers like myself who interacted with him . This is based on my numerous interactions with him dealing with all the letters I wrote . He was always courteous in suggesting improvements to the letters of this science major who was happy to accept them ! Finally , I will always have the fond memories of interacting with him for many years . I offer my heartfelt sympathies to his family for their loss . <p> Thank you for your mentorship , for always taking what often started as a passionate , likely frustrated rough draft with a few salient points into something worth publishing . You always did so objectively and compassionately with a solution-oriented response . My pearls of wisdom to share from you are to be objective , be factual and be compassionate . Do n't use words like every , always and never since they are very concrete and do n't allow a lot of space for grace . <p> As far as Ukraine goes , blaming Trump is like the principal of a school blaming a janitor for the way he is cleaning up the cafeteria after the staff allowed the children to have a food fight all day long . <p> Trump should just walk away and let the primary humans involved settle it . He 's man enough to step in and take a few arrows from the weak and then settle the problem . If the primary humans do n't like it , they can say no . I 'd bet Trump would be happy enough to pick the USA 's ball and come home . After all , the only reasons NATO or the EU are even halfway ready is because Trump forced them to be . A new EU army . Imagine that . <p> None of this is on Trump . It is Biden 's , Blinken 's , Sullivan 's , NATO 's and the rest of the Western world 's mess to clean up . <p> Fifty years ago the United States had a population of 216 million and a federal work force of 2 million . Today the population is 340 million with 2.2 million federal workers serving the public to create a more perfect union , establish justice , promote the general welfare , etc. , per the preamble to the Constitution . These are the people who help make our country great . They are not the ones committing fraud and waste . <p> The billionaire class is tearing the nation apart . They do not want to pay a fair share of taxes but want to accumulate more by defrauding labor and workers . Elon Musk contributed $250 million to Trump 's election . That does not give him the right to fire federal workers . Musk was not elected by anyone and is accountable to no one . Trump has surrounded himself by and is beholden to billionaires . <p> Why is Nebraska 's Congressional delegation silent regarding the abuse of the Constitution ? Why do they follow the directive of a man who was convicted by a jury on 34 counts of fraud ? Why do they look the other way when it is our freedom being trashed and wasted as more power is stolen by the oligarchs by their spreading of disinformation ? <p> I know why the newspaper industry is on a downhill slide . It 's called biased journalism . The March 6 edition of the Lincoln Journal Star is enough to make most conservatives cancel their subscriptions . Why ? Because on the front page ( where the really important news should be ) is the headline " Fact-checking Trump 's address to Congress . " <p> My first thought ? Where was this front-page headline the past four years when Joe Biden was lying to us ? Remember when he said he could n't do anything about illegal immigration until Congress gave him the tools ? Really ? Because in recent days under Trump , the number of daily crossings has dropped to less than 300 . Nowhere near the 10,000 per day under Biden . Additionally , in his State of the Union address in March 2024 , Biden said about Trump 's spending during his first term : " They added more to the national debt than any presidential term in American history . Check the numbers . " <p> Turns out they did , Joe , and the national debt had actually continued to increase under Biden . As of the day before Biden 's address , it was about $34.4 trillion , which amounts to an increase of about 24% during the first three years of his term . <p> There were so many more lies and mischaracterizations and truth stretching during Biden 's speeches over the years but none of it made the front page under the guise of " fact-checking . " <p> So why is it the LJS decides only Trump 's address to Congress is worthy of disputing on the front page ? One word : bias . <p> Throughout these past few weeks , the people of Nebraska have watched , heard about , and experienced the wrecking ball tearing through our national government . We have questions and we want answers . <p> Why does an unelected immigrant , like Elon Musk , have his hand on the throttle that guides that wrecking ball ? Why does the United States now stand with Russia , Iran and North Korea in a UN vote against Ukraine ? Why do farmers in Nebraska need to worry about dropping grain prices because of tariffs ? <p> Why are top career generals who are expert and even-tempered fired from the Pentagon ? Why are senior legal officers let go without cause from our armed services ? Why do federal workers receive emails that demand to know what they have been doing or they will be fired ? Why have 75-plus lawsuits been filed against the current national administration ? Why do we have to live with all this chaos ? <p> And , finally why are there no town-hall meetings in Nebraska by Sen. Deb Fischer , Sen. Pete Ricketts and Rep. Mike Flood where the constituents of this state have the opportunity to get answers ? There are deep and extensive concerns about what is happening right now in our country and the people of Nebraska deserve answers . When is that going to happen ? <p> Sometimes a young athlete will choose to cop an attitude with the coach . The consequences ? The whole team has to run laps . <p> Students and probably some adult staff choose to disregard the rules about vaping in a school building . The consequence ? The school district spends millions for vape detectors . <p> If a family member leaves a lighted candle unattended and a fire breaks out , the whole family experiences the consequences . <p> In our democracy , 49.7% of voters chose to vote for a convicted felon , who took home classified documents and refused to return them . The same guy who avoided military service and said soldiers who risked their lives were suckers . <p> The consequences ? Too many to list . The entire nation . <p> So many of us experiencing the consequences of the choices of that 49.7% . <p> Just read another story about a victim of abuse dying at the hands of the abuser . The system needs to be fixed . All restraining orders do is put the violence on record . They ca n't stop a bullet . The system should be made for it to be nearly impossible for the abuser to be free . And every crime should be a federal crime . No time off for good behavior . All victims should be put in protective custody . My feelings , being a survivor myself , would be that the abuser gets the same treatment he gave his victim . <p> Every generation sees that the news is all doom and gloom . Every generation believes that their crises are a sign of the " end times " -- some political or spiritual apocalypse looming on the horizon like a mushroom cloud . But these days , with every day seemingly another " bad day for American foreign policy , " to quote Don Bacon , it 's hard not to look at the state of the world and wonder if it 's really true . <p> I tell you , it 's a lie . Peter Kropotkin wrote that " the species in which peace and mutual support are the rule , prosper , while the unsociable species decay . " Should we be so unsociable so as to claim , from a state of inaction , from behind our screens , that the world is falling apart , and then simply watch the pieces fall ? Could the honeybees uphold entire ecosystems without their mutual collective effort ? <p> You , reader , are just one person . But you have the power to do what is in your control -- to , from this moment forward , start making choices that shape your life into one that is more sociable , healthy , and resilient -- and this is a great power . It 's an unimaginable power for every person to start doing at once . <p> With over a month since Trump 's inauguration , I 'll offer some observations . <p> The GOP lauded Trump 's massive cuts to reduce government 's size . The Senate 's proposed budget would increase spending by $340 billion . The GOP-headed Budget Committee has proposed raising the debt limit by $4.5 trillion . Trump wants to extend his first-term tax cuts for billionaires and corporations . If all this reduces spending , why does the debt ceiling need to be raised ? <p> Many GOP representatives are asking for exemptions from Trump 's massive cuts for their states , after realizing the negative consequences the cuts have had to their constituents . <p> Trump claims that his tariffs will make our economy healthy , but he contradicted that , by stating , " this will cause some pain " for American consumers . <p> In January 2024 , Trump promised he would keep America out of the Middle East . Now , he wants America to seize the bombed-out Gaza strip , create a new " Riviera " of that region , and evict the 2 million Palestinians who currently reside there . <p> Trump claimed he could end the war in Ukraine in 24 hours . A month later , the war continues . Talks , including the U.S. , Russia and Saudi Arabia , have excluded Ukraine . <p> Republicans have always been anti-Russia . GOP chairman of the Senate Arms Services Committee , Sen. Roger Wicker , stated that Putin " is a war criminal , who should be arrested , incarcerated and possibly executed " . GOP Sen. Thom Tillis has stated that Putin is a " cancer " to the free world , and " the biggest threat to democracy . " So , why does Trump want America to align with Putin ? <p> If there is widespread fraud and abuse of federal employees , why has n't anyone been charged ? <p> Lots of questions and issues that Trump 's administration has avoided addressing . The public needs to keep holding his feet to the fire . <p> I served in the U.S. Army for 20 years , the last four years in counterterrorism . <p> Four things happened in the past month , a couple most recently . <p> These events should immediately raise the hackles of every person in this country , whether you pay attention or not to current events . Yes , there is whiplash from the ping-ponging of information and disinformation coming from Washington , D.C. , I get that . <p> Recently , Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth ordered the stoppage of cyber and information actions against Russia by the U.S. Cyber Command , and the Homeland Security 's Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency ( CISA ) no longer focuses on Russian threats . <p> On her first day in office , Attorney General Pam Bondi ended the Task Force KleptoCapture that targets Russian oligarchs and enforces sanctions , and finally , the Justice Department disbanded the Foreign Influence Task Force . <p> I have asked Sens . Deb Fischer and Pete Ricketts these two questions : Do you believe Russia is still a threat to the United States ? Do you believe this is " just an effort " to " warm " relations ? <p> I have warned them when Russia takes over the United States , they will lose their positions . Trust me , that will come now that our elected officials have not stopped this from happening . <p> Look in the mirror , are you doing enough to save this democracy ? As a small person in my little space of the universe , there is n't much I can do . But collectively , we had a chance 10 years ago to keep on the guardrails . <p> The homeowners and landlords in our state may be unaware of what the Legislature has done to rob them of a significant property tax credit that was promised to them . <p> It is quite complicated , so I wo n't go into the details , but the public needs to understand that LB81 , introduced by Sen. Hardin with bipartisan cosponsors , is sitting in the Revenue Committee right now and can fix this . <p> It must pass or there will be no refund . For the average homeowner , this refund is probably worth a thousand dollars or more and is taken when you file your state income tax . If your property taxes are paid in your mortgage payment , you will not get your money back unless LB81 passes . If they pass it after you file your taxes by April 15 , you will have to amend your taxes to get your refund , unless you file an extension . They have our money already ; it 's about giving it back to us now . Otherwise , this will be the largest tax increase in the history of Nebraska . <p> There is much misinformation surrounding this , so do n't get confused . Contact the Revenue Committee and your state senator at nebraskalegislature.gov and tell them to pass LB81 so you can get your refund . <p> I am very passionate about bringing awareness to the overall safety of women . Women have constant worries about their own safety in many everyday situations . <p> As a woman , you have to always be very conscious of your surroundings . For example , women are not allowed to walk alone at night and carry things like pepper spray on their keys in case they get into uncomfortable situations . Women are taught at a young age that they need to pay attention to all of their surroundings in order to stay safe . <p> This article and story stood out to me because it was about a woman who was shot and was looking for help and protection . Sadly , many women become stuck in abusive or toxic situations like this because they are scared to leave . The women who have the bravery to reach out and seek help deserve to be protected . Women deserve to feel safe , especially when they are seeking help . Women 's safety is overlooked so often , and it 's not fair that women have to be so conscious of their own safety . As a society , we need to pay more attention to why women feel unsafe in situations and look for solutions to protect women and keep them safe to avoid situations like this or other situations in the future . <p> For the world to see , Trump once again showed himself to be the crude , empty-headed lout that he really is . <p> Where there should have been sophistication and statesmanship , he spewed the usual insults and bullying when he could n't cower Zelenskyy into signing onto a deal that would have given Ukraine absolutely no protection against the murderous Putin . <p> I am profoundly concerned about the barrage of attacks on the very fabric of our republic and the lack of response from our state 's residents and leaders . Not just has the Republican Party lost its way , it has demolished it . Eisenhower , Reagan , Bush , they are all turning over in their graves . <p> What has happened to the party of : <p> * Law and order , transparency and accountability ? <p> * Free-speech advocacy ? We are literally eviscerating the First Amendment by disallowing the use of specific words . <p> * Foreign-policy hawks , who know that a global political vacuum will be filled , quickly , by another player ? <p> * Economic competition and free trade champions ? <p> * " Passionate conservatism " ? <p> If you think that this is n't your problem , because the schoolyard bullies will only go after " other people , " remember this is how fascism always takes root . You will regret your spinelessness , and even 80 years from now , the world will ask : How could they ? Why did n't they do something to stop this ? It is time to stand up and actively resist , rather than duck and cover and mollify the goons . It 's time to call a spade a spade . And a fascist a fascist . Who knows , showing you have a spine might just help save the republic . Your grandchildren will thank you . <p> Hello . This is Senator Deb Fischer . ... If you would like to leave a message , please press 1 . <p> Staff in the offices of Nebraska 's congressional representatives admit , if asked , that they 're getting lots of calls , and it 's tough getting through " due to the high volume . " That frustrates people who want to know when our reps might exercise some oversight as President Donald Trump and Elon Musk blur the lines between the branches of the government and wreak havoc on its workforce . It 's enough to make a constituent want to shout : REP*RE*SEN*TA*TIVE ! ! ! <p> Hi ! This is U.S. Senator Pete Ricketts , representing the great state of Nebraska ! <p> They say they support Ukraine , but days after Trump had a tantrum and kicked the Ukrainian president out of the White House , then paused aid to the beleaguered nation , one could find nothing about it on their websites . And , no one answered the phone . Maybe the senators and Rep. Mike Flood did n't realize it was all part of the show . Maybe they missed the part where Trump said , " This is going to be great television , " even while the debacle was unfolding . <p> Hi , this is Mike Flood . ... We 're unable to take your call right now . <p> Slash Veterans Administration jobs ? Nothing from our guys . Fire weather forecasters ? Who needs ' em ? And no word when they fired more than 350 people in nuclear energy jobs , or when all but 28 were rehired immediately because , you know , they look after things like nuclear weapons . <p> Hello ? <p> You may have missed it when House Speaker Mike Johnson said of crowded town halls : " These are Democrats who went to the events early and filled up the seats . " It 's almost like Republicans think they represent only those constituents who voted for them . Queries about when our delegation will host town halls , well , they went to voicemail.
