<p> WASHINGTON - US President Donald Trump says no one is expelling anyone from Gaza . During an Oval Office spray with Ireland 's Prime Minister Michael Martin in the Oval Office , a reporter asks the Irish leader about Trump 's plan to " to expel Palestinians out of Gaza . " " Nobody 's expelling any Palestinians , " Trump pipes in . The comment appears to amount to an about-face for Trump who when introducing his proposal to take over Gaza last month said that all of the Strip 's population of roughly 2 million people would be permanently relocated . When pressed last month as to whether he would relocate Palestinians by force , Trump insisted that no people in Gaza actually want to remain there . Earlier in today 's Oval Office spray , Trump laments that people are forgetting what Hamas did on October 7 . He reiterates the brutal treatment of the hostages by the terror group . " We 're working hard with Israel ... to see how we can solve the problem , " Trump says . He again calls Senate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He used to be Jewish . He 's not Jewish anymore , " Trump says . The International Court of Justice will hold hearings next month on Israel 's humanitarian obligations towards Palestinians , amid claims the Israeli government is blocking aid access to Gaza . The United Nations General Assembly approved a resolution in December requesting that the world body 's top court give an advisory opinion on the matter . <p> The hearings will open on April 28 at the court 's seat in The Hague , it says in a statement . The resolution , submitted by Norway in October , was adopted by a large majority . It calls on the ICJ to clarify what Israel is required to do to " ensure and facilitate the unhindered provision of urgently needed supplies essential to the survival of the Palestinian civilian population . " Although the ICJ 's decision are legally binding , the court has no concrete means to enforce them . But they increase the diplomatic pressure on Israel . Norway 's initiative was triggered by an Israeli law banning from the end of January @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Israeli soil and coordinating with the Israeli government . Meanwhile , Arab foreign ministers agreed to continue consultations with US special envoy to the Mideast Steve Witkoff regarding Egypt 's plan for the post-war management of Gaza . The group of top Arab diplomats met with Witkoff earlier today and issued a joint statement about their plan to continue talks with him shortly afterward . Notably joining the foreign ministers of Saudi Arabia , the United Arab Emirates , Qatar , Egypt and Jordan is Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas 's top aide Hussein al-Sheikh . Sheikh met with Witkoff in Riyadh in January .
