<p> AFTER 11 months of savage Israeli violence , Gaza 's health and sanitation systems have collapsed . As a result , the crippling polio virus has made a resurgence in the occupied territory after a quarter century . One confirmed case has been reported , while the virus has been found in numerous environmental samples . This has prompted the international community , led by the UN and WHO , into action , and in order to halt the spread of polio , emergency campaigns have been launched in the besieged Strip . Carrying out a vaccination campaign in a war zone is no easy task , but all parties involved , including the Israeli regime , have been asked to hold their fire so that vulnerable children can be reached . This has resulted in ' humanitarian pauses ' to allow for a three-phased vaccination campaign . And though the trigger-happy Israeli forces continue their blood-soaked campaign both in Gaza and the West Bank , the limited humanitarian pauses are largely being respected . This situation should compel policymakers in Pakistan to do much more to eliminate the virus in this country . Reports emerged on Friday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Islamabad . <p> If the guns can fall silent -- even temporarily -- in one of the most brutal conflicts of the modern age to enable polio vaccinations , what is stopping us from reaching every vulnerable child ? Unfortunately , in Pakistan , those brave souls who administer polio drops are targeted by terrorists . Over 100 vaccinators have paid with their lives , largely due to rumours spread by regressive elements . The state must respond to the polio challenge with seriousness and alacrity , to save Pakistan 's children from this crippling ailment . If we fail to do this , we will not only endanger our children 's future , it will also become more difficult for Pakistanis to travel abroad , as the country is considered amongst the last reservoirs of polio globally . If polio campaigns can be undertaken in Gaza 's hellscape , we have no excuses .
