<h> 14 dead after an Israeli attack on a school <h> GAZA STRIP : A central Gaza school was struck by an Israeli airstrike on Wednesday ; the civil defense service of the Hamas-run enclave said that 14 people were killed in the now-displaced building . The great majority of the 2.4 million residents of the Gaza Strip have been uprooted by the fighting at least once . According to spokesman Mahmud Bassal for the civil defense service , the Al Jawni school in Nuseirat , central Gaza , which has already been targeted multiple times throughout the conflict , was struck once more on Wednesday . " There are now 14 martyrs , " he declared , revising the previous tally of 10 fatalities from the " Israeli bombing of Al Jawni school , " which also left many more injured . <p> Five dead have been found at the scene and taken to a hospital , according to the Palestinian Red Crescent . Close to the Jordanian border at the northern end of the West Bank , entrances and exits from Tubas were blocked , and Israeli military equipment , including armored personnel carriers and road diggers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been reports of intense fighting between Israeli forces and Palestinian rebels , and Israeli forces have dug up roads and demolished homes , severely damaging the streets and infrastructure of all three cities . <p> According to a medical source at the Al Awda health center in central Gaza 's Nuseirat , 15 victims of the strike have been transferred to nearby hospitals . Nine were taken to Al Awda , and six to Al Aqsa Martyrs 's Hospital , located in Deir el-Balah , the capital of Gaza . <h> PKKH ( Pakistan Ka Khuda Hafiz ) is a respected Pakistani news website offering accurate and comprehensive coverage of politics , culture , and global affairs . With a commitment to objective reporting and insightful analysis , PKKH provides readers with a well-rounded perspective on current events . The platform encourages community engagement and leverages digital technology to reach a wide audience , contributing to informed discussions and awareness .
