<p> THE Beijing Declaration signed in the Chinese capital on Tuesday reiterates the need for internal Palestinian unity at a critical time when people of the occupied territories are facing merciless slaughter at the hands of the occupying power . Moreover , the diplomatic coup has further strengthened China 's image as a peacemaker in the strife-torn Middle East , succeeding where many other foreign powers have often failed . Fourteen Palestinian factions signed the declaration , with Hamas and Fatah being the most prominent of them . The former controls Gaza , while the latter runs the occupied West Bank through the Palestinian Authority . Both parties have been bitter rivals since a violent power struggle erupted in 2007 . The Beijing Declaration seeks the formation of a unity government and the achievement of " Palestinian independence at an early date " . Of course , standing in the way of these noble aims is Israel , which is furious with Beijing for inviting Hamas to the talks . Also , the Israeli parliament recently passed a bill rejecting the establishment of a Palestinian state , effectively telling the world Tel Aviv has no intention of vacating the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a much better ' day after ' plan than the questionable schemes being dreamt up by Israel , the US and some Arab states . These include the presence of foreign ' peacekeepers ' in Gaza . Numerous Palestinian factions have said they will not accept foreign troops on their land . Yet the fact remains that the unity government can only be formed once the slaughter in Gaza stops . Instead of foreign powers dictating their future , or worse , Israel installing loyalist puppets to police the Palestinians , the people of Palestine must be free to decide their own future through democratic means . And once the conditions for elections are established , the international community , as well as the Palestinian factions themselves , should respect the winning party 's mandate . As for Beijing 's growing role in the Middle East , this is China 's second major accomplishment after last year 's Iran-Saudi rapprochement . Perhaps China has succeeded as it does not bring with it the baggage of being an ex-colonial overlord in the region , while Beijing does not promise ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Palestinian factions in Beijing is another indication of a changing world order , where new global players are emerging to challenge the hegemony of the old order .
