<h> Britain has the historical responsibility to recognise a Palestine state <p> British Foreign Secretary David Cameron 's remarks that the United Kingdom is considering recognising the Palestine state signals a change in the thinking of at least a section of the British government towards the Palestine question after the Israel-Hamas war of October 7 . The comment triggered criticism within Conservative Party circles , with Downing Street stating later that the British government 's policy towards the issue had not changed . Yet , the debate , which included reports in the American media that the State Department is reviewing options for possible recognition of the Palestine state , suggests that the Palestine question is back at the centre of the political parleys of the major powers . Before October 7 , Israel , its Arab partners and western allies thought they could ignore the Palestine question and go ahead building a new West Asia . Hamas attacks and the subsequent Israeli invasion of Gaza show that finding a solution to the Palestine question is an imperative for peace and stability in a strife-stricken West Asia . And , one of the globally recognised and practical pathways to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , sovereign Palestine state created with international recognition . <p> Britain has a historical responsibility to push for a solution . The British government was the first major power that recognised the Zionists ' claim to the land of Ottoman Palestine . In 1917 , during the First World War , the British government issued the Balfour Declaration , supporting the creation of " a homeland " for the Jewish people " in Palestine " . The declaration gave a major boost to the Zionist movement , promoting Jewish migration from Europe and the building of settlement communities in historical Palestine ( Ottoman and British ) , culminating in the creation of Israel in 1948 . At least from the Oslo process of the early 1990s , there were multiple diplomatic attempts in finding a mutually acceptable two-state solution , but which were futile as Palestine remained under occupation . Today , there are roughly 7,00,000 Jewish settlers in the West Bank and East Jerusalem ; and Gaza is being destroyed by Israel . Israeli leaders , including Benjamin Netanyahu , have repeatedly rejected the two-state solution , while the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Palestinian territories . This is an unsustainable scenario , producing cycles of violence and instability . The two-state proposal is already on its deathbed , given the mushrooming of settlements , growing violence , and the rise of far-right extremists in Israel and Islamist militants in Palestinian territories . If the British government realises its historical responsibility , does a reality check of its current policy and becomes ready to offer a political horizon to the Palestinians , it would be a welcome step . <h> Comments <p> Comments have to be in English , and in full sentences . They can not be abusive or personal . Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments . <p> We have migrated to a new commenting platform . If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in , you may continue to engage with our articles . If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments . Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.
