<p> DOZENS of pro-Palestine protesters have been arrested after they occupied part of the main library at Columbia University in New York . <p> Demonstrators pushed their way into Butler Library on Wednesday , with videos posted on social media showing many wearing keffiyehs and face coverings as they chanted and defied restrictions imposed by the Trump administration following a wave of campus protests last year . <p> US Secretary of State Marco Rubio said the visa statuses of those involved would be reviewed . <p> In a statement posted online , the protesters accused the university of " violent repression " and said they had refused to present identification to police or campus safety officers.Columbia University Apartheid Divest , which has been at the forefront of pro-Palestinian student activism on campus , said it had occupied the library in protest at the university 's ties to Israel . " Over 100 people have just flooded into Butler Library and renamed it the Basel al-Araj Popular University , " the group said , referencing the Palestinian writer and activist who was killed by Israeli forces in 2017 . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from imperialist violence , the people will continue to disrupt Columbia 's profits and legitimacy . " Repression breeds resistance -- if Columbia escalates repression , the people will continue to escalate disruptions on this campus . " Acting university president Claire Shipman condemned the protest as " completely unacceptable " and said university officials had called the police after demonstrators refused to leave or show identification . " Disruptions to our academic activities will not be tolerated and are violations of our rules and policies , " she said in a statement . " Columbia strongly condemns violence on our campus , anti-semitism and all forms of hate and discrimination , some of which we witnessed today . " The New York Police Department confirmed that " multiple individuals who did not comply with verbal warnings " to leave had been taken into custody . Local radio station 1010 WINS reported around 80 arrests.Columbia , one of the most prestigious universities in the United States , has become a flashpoint for student protests against Israel 's genocide in Gaza , which have taken place on more than 100 US @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first time that the university has called the police to respond to an on-campus protest since April last year , when students occupied Hamilton Hall for nearly 24 hours.Columbia has been a particular target of President Donald Trump , who has accused universities of fostering anti-semitism and failing to protect Jewish students . His administration has threatened to withdraw $400 million ( ? 300m ) in federal funding from Columbia and warned that students involved in earlier protests could be deported.In March , the university conceded to several administration demands , including a ban on masks at demonstrations and a change in oversight of some academic programmes.The Trump administration has warned more than 60 universities that federal funding may be cut if allegations of anti-semitism are not addressed.On Tuesday , Mr Trump also terminated $2.2 billion ( ? 1.65bn ) in federal funding for Harvard University , which has refused to comply with his demands , following a government review of its financing .
