<p> WORKERS across Britain are taking part in a day of action for Palestine tomorrow , demanding an end to 77 years of the Nakba or " catastrophe " that saw hundreds of thousands of Palestinians expelled from their homes during the founding of the state of Israel . <p> They also joined the growing calls for the British government and institutions to end their complicity in Israel 's atrocities against the Palestinians . <p> More than 80 Palestinians in the Gaza Strip were killed today during more Israeli attacks . <p> In Britain , trade unionists have joined the weekly protests since October 7 , 2023 , and have been leading " an array of solidarity actions , " according to the Palestine Solidarity Campaign ( PSC ) , one of the organisers of the Workplace Day of Action.Actions tomorrow will include lunchtime walkouts , meetings , teach-ins , film screenings as well as the distribution of leaflets for the latest national demonstration on Saturday , May 17 , in central London.Organisers have also encouraged workers to launch petitions demanding the divestment of pension funds from companies complicit in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and promote the Do n't Buy Apartheid campaign.This includes urging employers to stop stocking Israeli fresh produce and Coca-Cola products.The action is supported by the TUC , which passed a motion in September to demand an end to all licences for arms traded with Israel.PSC director Ben Jamal said : " Today we mark the Nakba not as a moment of collective trauma , enduring in memory but of the past , but as an ongoing catastrophe , manifested in 77 years of ethnic cleansing , dispossession and colonisation . " Today we remember the breadth and depth of British complicity in that catastrophe from the Balfour Declaration to today 's military , diplomatic , economic and political support for genocide . " As Palestinians in Gaza endure Israel 's programme of forced starvation , and as Palestinians globally reassert their promise to exist , resist erasure and return , we reassert our commitment to stand with them until liberation is achieved . " Mr Jamal added : " We call on every person of conscience to continue to hold government , public bodies and corporations to account and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " PCS general secretary , Fran Heathcote said : " PCS is proud to stand with Palestine to mark the 77th anniversary of the Nakba which saw the ethnic cleansing of 750,000 Palestinian people from their homeland , and the destruction of over 500 cities , towns and villages . " We have encouraged our members to commemorate the Nakba by showing solidarity to Palestinians during Thursday 's workplace day of action . " With Israel continuing its genocide , bombing homes and hospitals and blocking aid into Gaza , it 's crucial now more than ever we demand peace and justice for the Palestinian people . " Communist Party international secretary Kevan Nelson said : " Seventy-seven years on , the situation facing Palestinians is worse than ever , with over 53,000 killed and 120,000 injured in the past 18 months . " Today the people of Gaza are being subjected to unprecedented levels of depravity by the Israeli regime with 500,000 facing starvation . Talk is cheap . " The British government must act by immediately ending all arms sales and military assistance to Israel . Britain must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Want senior campaigner on Palestine Neil Sammonds said : " We remember today and every day the Nakba , the mass forced dispossession of Palestinians and destruction of historic Palestine . " We demand accountability for the 1947-8 Nakba and the ever-worsening ongoing Nakba war crimes of the settler colonial enterprise assisted throughout by corrupt British and global political , corporate and military elites . " In the House of Commons , MPs from all sides united to denounce the failure of the Labour government to step up to its international responsibilities to prevent a genocide in Gaza.Hapless Foreign Office minister Hamish Falconer offered platitudes but no policy changes , condemning Israel 's conduct while ducking any commitment to definite actions.Labour MP Rosena Allin-Khan said : " Almost a million children are at risk of famine and death in Gaza . Those who have stood by and allowed this to happen should hold their heads in shame . " I call on this government to sanction Israeli officials until the blockade is lifted because if we do not act now this will be on us . " Tory Edward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hospital and unacceptable to starve a whole people . When is genocide not genocide ? " Labour MP Andy McDonald told Mr Falconer that Britain was not complying with its obligations " if we continue to supply parts to the F-35 programme . These are the weapons that are dropping on children in Gaza . " We can not say we 're observing the genocide and Geneva conventions and Rome statute if we continue to supply those goods . " Green Party co-leader Adrian Ramsay said Israel 's aid blockade was to blame for Palestinians starving and that a genocide was possible in Gaza.Labour 's Abitsam Mohamed accused Israel of acting " in explicit violation of international law " and asked why Britain was still supplying arms , while Tory Kit Malthouse warned Mr Falconer that he and other ministers could be held legally accountable for their inaction.For the Liberal Democrats , Monica Harding urged recognition of a Palestinian state and the sanctioning of far-right Israeli ministers while the Scottish National Party 's Brendan O'Hara condemned government lawyers for arguing that there was no genocide in Gaza.The beleaguered Mr Falconer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " and the food blockade " cruel and indefensible , " demanding that it must end but without committing to doing anything.He refused to admit Israel was committing genocide , saying this was a matter for international courts.On the F-35 programme , he said Britain was not selling the jets directly to Israel , that it was supplying spare parts in accordance with legal advice and that the F-35 programme was of " critical importance to European security . " International calls for justice for the Palestinian people also continued to pour in.Director of the Tricontinental Institute for Social Research Vijay Prashad said : " The Nakba was not just an event in 1948 . It is a process for the annihilation of the Palestinian peoples that continues . " The Nakba , till the defeat of this annihilationist zionism , is a permanent Nakba . " Black Agenda Reports executive editor Margaret Kimberley said : " The illegal occupation of Palestinian lands , war crimes , and genocide began on May 15 , 1948 . Every atrocity committed by the zionist entity has its roots in the Nakba , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " Israel and its supporters are continuing the same process of ethnic cleansing that began with the Nakba . The day offers a reminder that the expulsion of the Palestinians , accomplished through dispossession and genocide , is core to the Zionist project , not an aberration . From 1948 to 2025 , however , the Palestinian people have continued to stand for their right to self-determination , dignity and humanity . " Now , more than ever , people of conscience across the world must stand with them . Particularly in the United States , the guarantor for Israeli lawless and its main partner in genocide . " Meanwhile , Israeli air strikes in northern and southern Gaza today killed at least 80 people , including almost two dozen children , according to local hospitals and health officials.This came a day after Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said there was " no way " he would halt Israel 's offensive in the Palestinian territory before Hamas is defeated.At least 50 people , including 22 children , were killed in strikes around Jabaliya in northern Gaza alone , according @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hamas released an Israeli-American hostage on Monday , a gesture that some thought could lay the groundwork for a ceasefire.Israel 's military refused to comment on the strikes , but warned Jabaliya residents to evacuate on Tuesday , claiming it was targeting militant infrastructure in the area , including rocket launchers.In Jabaliya , rescue workers were forced to smash through collapsed concrete slabs using hand tools , lit by the light of mobile phones , to remove children 's bodies .
