<p> MULTIPLE Israel air strikes hit the southern Gaza city of Khan Younis early today and the night before , killing more than 50 people in a second consecutive night of heavy bombing , while another air strike in the north left more than a dozen people dead . <p> The strikes came as US President Donald Trump tours the Middle East , visiting Gulf states but not Israel . <p> There had been widespread hope that Mr Trump 's regional visit could usher in a ceasefire deal or renewal of humanitarian aid to Gaza . An Israeli blockade of the Palestinian territory is now in its third month . <p> Reporters counted 10 air strikes on the city overnight into today and saw numerous bodies taken to the morgue in the city 's Nasser Hospital . It took time to identify some of the bodies due to the extent of their injuries . The hospital 's morgue confirmed 54 people had been killed.The dead included a journalist working for Qatari television network Al Araby TV , the network announced on social media , saying that Hasan Samour had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the strikes in Khan Younis.Israeli air strikes on Wednesday killed at least 70 people , including almost two dozen children.Another strike in Jabaliya in northern Gaza hit a mosque and a small medical clinic , killing 13 people , the Civil Defence organisation said.In Nasser Hospital , Safaa al-Najjar , her face stained with blood , wept as the shroud-wrapped bodies of two of her children were brought to her : 18-month-old Motaz al-Bayyok and six-week-old Moaz al-Bayyok.The family was caught in Israel 's overnight air strikes . All five of Ms Najjar 's other children , aged from three to 12 , were injured , while her husband was in intensive care.One of her sons , 11-year-old Yusuf , his head heavily bandaged , screamed in grief as the shroud of his younger sibling was parted to show his face . " I gave them dinner and put them to sleep as usual . It was a normal day . Suddenly , I do n't know what happened , the world went upside down , " she said as others tried to comfort her . " I do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their fault ? What is their fault ? " Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu vowed earlier in the week to push ahead with a promised escalation of Israel 's genocidal military campaign in the Gaza Strip.In comments released by his office on Tuesday , the prime minister said Israeli forces were days away from entering Gaza " with great strength to complete the mission . " Human Rights Watch said today that Israel 's stated plan of seizing Gaza and displacing hundreds of thousands of people " inches closer to extermination , " calling on the international community to speak out against it.Gaza 's Health Ministry said today that Israeli strikes have put the European Hospital Khan Younis -- the only remaining facility providing cancer treatments in Gaza -- out of service following severe damage to its infrastructure and access roads.The shutdown halts all specialised treatments , including cardiac surgeries and cancer care , the ministry added.The Israeli military conducted two air strikes against the European Hospital on Tuesday , claiming it was targeting a Hamas command centre beneath the facility . Six people were killed .
