@@86348414 <h> Covid-19 : The C.D.C. Recommends Nursing Homes and Health Workers Get Vaccines First <p> Last Updated <p> Dec. 2 , 2020 , 1:25 a.m . ET <p> Dec. 2 , 2020 , 1:25 a.m . ET <p> The United States and Britain are racing to approve a vaccine . In the U.S. , more school districts have begun to prioritize elementary students for in-person learning , a policy already in place in much of Europe . <p> A certified nursing assistant at a nursing home in New Mexico.Credit ... Isadora Kosofsky for The New York Times <p> An independent panel advising the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention voted Tuesday to recommend that residents and employees of nursing homes and similar facilities be the first people in the United States to receive coronavirus vaccines , along with health care workers who are especially at risk of being exposed to the virus . <p> The panel , the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices , voted 13 to 1 during an emergency meeting to make the recommendation . The director of the C.D.C. , Dr. Robert R. Redfield , is expected to decide by Wednesday whether to accept it as the agency 's formal guidance to states as they prepare to start giving people the shots as soon as two weeks from now . <p> " We are acting none too soon , " said Dr. Beth Bell , a panel member and global health expert at the University of Washington , noting that Covid-19 would kill about 120 Americans during the meeting alone . <p> States are not required to follow the panel 's recommendations , but they usually do . The final decision will rest with governors , who are consulting with their top health officials as they complete distribution plans . <p> The new recommendation is the first of several expected from the panel over the coming weeks , as vaccines developed by Pfizer and Moderna go through the federal approval process , on the thorny question of which Americans should be at the front of the long line to get vaccinated while supply is still scarce . The panel described it as an interim recommendation that could change as more is learned about how well the vaccines work in different age groups and how well the manufacturers keep up with demand . <p> The roughly three million people living in long-term care and those who care for them are a relatively clear target ; 39 percent of deaths from the coronavirus have occurred in such facilities , according to an analysis by The New York Times . But states and health systems will ultimately have to decide which of the nation 's 21 million health care workers should qualify to receive the first doses , as there wo n't be enough at first for everyone . <p> Pfizer and Moderna have estimated that they will have enough to vaccinate , at most , 22.5 million Americans by year 's end , with the required two doses , a few weeks apart . The C.D.C. will apportion the supply among the states , with the initial allocation proportional to the size of each state 's adult population . <p> The only member of the committee to vote against the recommendation was Dr. Helen Talbot , an infectious-disease specialist at Vanderbilt University , who expressed discomfort with putting long-term-care residents in the first priority group because the vaccines ' safety had not been studied in that particular population . " We enter this realm of ' we hope it works and we hope it 's safe , ' and that concerns me on many levels , " she said before the vote . <p> But most panel members who offered opinions said they thought the high death rate among that group made it imperative to include it . <p> Dr. Jos ? Romero , the chairman of the panel , said that he felt strongly that its process had adhered to its core principles : " maximizing benefit and minimizing harm , " promoting justice and addressing health inequities . Dr. Bell , the co-chair , acknowledged that all of the members would have liked more data from clinical trials but said that because of the pandemic emergency , " we need to act . " <p> Also Tuesday , C.D.C. officials moved to decrease the quarantine time for people who may have been exposed to the coronavirus , according to a senior administration official who was not authorized to speak publicly . The move had been expected and encouraged by Vice President Mike Pence , who leads the White House coronavirus task force . <p> At a task force meeting on Tuesday afternoon , C.D.C. officials said they would reduce the guidance from 14 days to seven days for patients who have been exposed to the virus but who get a negative test , and to 10 days for people who do not get a test . <p> If adopted , the more relaxed guidance could lead to some infections being missed . Studies have found that the median incubation period for the virus is five days . A significant majority of people -- 97.5 percent of those exposed to the virus -- develop symptoms by the 12th day after infection . <p> A spokeswoman for the C.D.C. declined to comment on the change last week , saying only that the agency " is always reviewing its guidance and recommendations in the light of new understandings of the virus that causes Covid-19 , " and that the change will be announced " when appropriate . " <h> Coronavirus Vaccine Could Be Ready in a Few Weeks , Says Johnson <h> Prime Minister Boris Johnson of Britain , during a visit to the pharmaceutical company Wockhardt , said " if we 're lucky " a coronavirus vaccine could be available for distribution within weeks , but stressed that some restrictions will still be necessary to keep the pandemic under control . <p> I 'm here at Wockhardt , who are going to be making , we hope , the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine . And they have incredible capacity here to make up to 350 million doses a year . And , you know , this could -- if we 're lucky , if everything goes right -- this could be available just in a few weeks . What we need now is the approvals . No vaccine has yet got -- this must be stressed -- no vaccine has yet got M.H.R.A. approval . But we 're obviously hoping that both the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine and the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine will get approved in the course of the next few days and weeks . We ca n't afford to take our foot off the throat of the beast , to take our foot off the gas . We ca n't afford to let it out of control again . So the tiering system is tough , but it 's designed to be tough and to keep it under control . I particularly understand the frustration of the hospitality sector that has borne so much , and been through so much in the last few months . And we will do everything we can , as we have been doing , to protect and to encourage that sector throughout the weeks and months ahead . <p> Prime Minister Boris Johnson of Britain , during a visit to the pharmaceutical company Wockhardt , said " if we 're lucky " a coronavirus vaccine could be available for distribution within weeks , but stressed that some restrictions will still be necessary to keep the pandemic under control.CreditCredit ... Pool photo by Paul Ellis <p> The race to be the first nation to authorize a rigorously tested Covid-19 vaccine is intensifying . <p> British regulators are considering two vaccines for emergency approval : one developed by AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford , and another by Pfizer and BioNTech . Prime Minister Boris Johnson visited a vaccine manufacturing facility in Wales on Monday , boasting that " if we 're lucky , if everything goes , right , this could be available just in a few weeks . " <p> " This could , and I stress could , really be the salvation for humanity , these vaccines , " Mr. Johnson said . <p> Across the Atlantic , Mark Meadows , President Trump 's chief of staff , summoned the F.D.A. commissioner , Stephen Hahn , to the White House on Tuesday morning to explain why regulators have not yet approved the emergency use of the vaccine developed by Pfizer , according to people familiar with the situation . <p> One official said Mr. Meadows was concerned that the British government may approve emergency use of a coronavirus vaccine before American regulators act , potentially embarrassing the Trump administration . Mr. Trump and Mr. Meadows have pressured the F.D.A. for months to speed up the development and approval of a vaccine , and allies of Dr. Hahn are worried that he could be fired if he fails to satisfy the White House demands . <p> On Tuesday , the White House said that Mr. Trump will host a " Covid-19 Vaccine Summit " next week , two days before a panel of outside advisers to the F.D.A. meets to decide whether the agency should grant emergency approval to the Pfizer vaccine . Vice President Mike Pence , the head of the White House coronavirus task force , will also attend the meeting with private sector executives and governors . <p> The global race to develop a vaccine is poised to shatter records for time to market . Around the world , researchers are testing 57 vaccines in clinical trials , and nearly 100 others are being tested in animals or cells . China and Russia have approved vaccines without waiting for the results of late-stage trials , known as Phase 3 , which experts say raises serious risks . <p> Britain and the United States vet vaccine candidates differently : American regulators pore over raw data from vaccine makers to validate their results , while regulators in Britain and elsewhere in Europe lean more heavily on companies ' own analyses . <p> The European Union is also set to conduct its own review of the Pfizer and BioNTech vaccine . The companies announced on Tuesday that they had submitted their final application to the bloc 's health authorities . Moderna announced on Monday that it had also applied for approval for the European market and in the United States . <p> But creating a vaccine is only the first step in what will be a gargantuan feat of logistics : injecting enough people around the world to stop a pandemic in which more than 63 million people have been infected and 1.4 million have died . The United States , Britain and other rich countries have bought massive quantities of doses , but will still have to figure out how to ship , store and distribute them . <p> The Pfizer vaccine brings particular challenges : It must be stored in an ultracold freezer . That quandary already appeared to be affecting distribution plans in Britain . Nursing-home residents were supposed to be Britain 's top priority under an advisory committee 's plans , but a limit on how many times officials believe the Pfizer vaccine can be moved before it loses effectiveness likely means that National Health Service staff members will receive the shots first . <p> In the United States , states largely devise plans for vaccine distribution , but are likely to follow recommendations from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention . An advisory committee was meeting on Tuesday to discuss those . <p> Governments and health care organizations must also figure out how to overcome mistrust and concern about the vaccine 's safety . On Monday , the head of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies , Francesco Rocca , warned that misinformation and distrust could torpedo vaccination campaigns . <p> " To beat this pandemic , we also have to defeat the parallel pandemic of distrust , " he said . <h> Advertisement <p> There has been speculation that President Trump would fire Dr. Stephen Hahn because his agency failed to approve a vaccine before Election Day.Credit ... Al Drago for The New York Times <p> Dr. Stephen Hahn , the commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration , was summoned to the White House on Tuesday morning to explain why regulators had not yet approved the emergency use of the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Pfizer , according to people familiar with the situation . <p> Mark Meadows , the White House chief of staff , called for the session out of concern that the British government may approve emergency use of a Covid-19 vaccine before American regulators act , embarrassing the Trump administration , government officials said . The meeting was reported earlier by Axios . <p> The F.D.A. 's approval process for a vaccine is generally considered more stringent than Britain 's because vaccine makers are required to submit raw data for review . British regulators , like some of their European counterparts , rely more heavily on the companies ' own analyses of their data , experts say , although they reserve the right to verify the accuracy of those reports . <p> " F.D.A. is one of the few regulatory agencies in the world that actually looks at the raw data , " Dr. Hahn said in an interview on Tuesday with ABC News . " We are going to do our own analysis . " <p> An F.D.A. spokesman said that agency experts are reviewing " thousands of pages of technical information , " including data on the effect of Pfizer 's vaccine on various subgroups of clinical trial participants , as well as the company 's manufacturing controls . <p> For months , the White House has pressured the F.D.A. to speed up development and approval of a vaccine . Speculation has raged that President Trump would fire Dr. Hahn because his agency failed to approve a vaccine before Election Day . <p> One administration official said Dr. Hahn prepared for Tuesday 's meeting by pulling data from the past few weeks showing how productive the F.D.A. has been . Another described the meeting with Mr. Meadows as uneventful . The officials asked to remain anonymous because they were n't authorized to speak publicly . <p> The British government is hoping that within days , its drug regulator will approve emergency use of Pfizer 's vaccine , whose data has been under a rolling review . Soon afterward , it could approve a vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and scientists from the University of Oxford . It 's possible Britain could approve a Pfizer vaccine before the F.D.A. does . <p> Pfizer and its German partner , BioNTech , announced on Nov. 18 that clinical trial results showed its vaccine was 95 percent effective and had no serious side effects . It submitted an application for emergency use authorization to the F.D.A. two days later . <p> The F.D.A. 's outside advisory panel of experts is scheduled to meet to discuss the Pfizer vaccine on Dec. 10 . Barring unexpected problems , regulators are expected to approve the request for emergency authorization in mid-December . <p> Eager to highlight that success , the White House said Tuesday that the president will host a " Covid-19 Vaccine Summit " on Dec. 8 . Vice President Mike Pence , who heads the White House coronavirus task force , will also attend the meeting with private sector executives and governors . The meeting was first reported by the website StatNews . <p> The event will mark a rare appearance by the president since he lost the election . He has had few public events and did not attend the sole coronavirus task force briefing last month held by Mr. Pence and top government health officials . <p> " The president looks forward to convening leaders from the federal government , state governments , private sector , military and scientific community for a comprehensive discussion with the American people as the administration prepares to deliver this historic , lifesaving vaccine to every ZIP code in the United States within 24 hours of an F.D.A. approval , " a White House spokesman , Brian Morgenstern , said in a statement <p> Cook County Sheriff Tom Dart , right , who dealt with a large coronavirus outbreak at the Cook County Jail last Spring , has tested positive for the virus.Credit ... Scott Olson/Getty Images <p> Sheriff Tom Dart of Cook County , Ill. , whose jail at one point had the nation 's largest known cluster of coronavirus cases , has tested positive for the virus , officials said on Tuesday . <p> At least 1,750 inmates and correctional officers at the Cook County jail have been infected since the pandemic began , including eight inmates and three officers who died of Covid-19 . The county , which includes Chicago , has more than 5.1 million residents , second only to Los Angeles County , Calif . <p> Sheriff Dart , who took office in 2006 , continued to work long hours overseeing the jail as it sought to control the virus outbreak . He learned on Friday that he had tested positive , officials said . <p> He joined at least 30 other sheriffs across the nation who have contracted the coronavirus . The job often requires spending a significant amount of time in jails -- congregate settings that are often crowded and unsanitary , and where social distancing can be all but impossible . <p> Sheriff Mark Lamb of Pinal County , Ariz. , southeast of Phoenix , tested positive in June , just before he was scheduled to meet with President Trump ; he went to an infirmary instead . In August , five Florida sheriffs tested positive after attending a law enforcement conference . <p> There have been at least 59,300 infections and 115 deaths in the nation 's jails , including 49 deaths among jail correctional staff . When state and federal prisons are included as well , the figures jump to at least 342,000 infections and 1,736 deaths . <p> Sheriff Dart began to isolate himself on Nov. 20 after experiencing symptoms consistent with Covid-19 , according to a statement from his office . He was tested four days later and received the results Nov. 27 , his office said . <p> Before he fell ill , Mr. Dart often spoke about the elaborate precautions he took to avoid getting sick and potentially infecting his family . During an interview with The Times in April , when the virus was raging inside the jail , he described coming home after working long days , removing his work clothes in the garage and leaving them in the car until he was satisfied that they were not contaminated . <p> A patient arriving by ambulance at Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn on Monday.Credit ... Dave Sanders for The New York Times <p> As New York City confronts a sharp rise in coronavirus cases , its health commissioner on Tuesday issued an advisory urging people over 65 years old or those who face an increased risk of severe illness from the virus to halt all nonessential activities and stay home as much as possible . <p> " We need you , if you 're older , if you have pre-existing conditions , to take additional precautions , " Mayor Bill de Blasio said at a news conference . The advisory does not carry penalties if not followed . <p> Still , the notice comes after the city has seen a sustained increase in positive test results and hospitalizations and a day after the governor warned that every region in the state was facing potential issues with hospitals being overrun . On Tuesday , the city reported a seven-day average rate of positive test results of 4.14 percent , its highest since early June . ( Mr. de Blasio has said that the increase could reflect anomalies in testing over the Thanksgiving holiday , when fewer tests were conducted . ) <p> The city health commissioner , Dave A. Chokshi , said that more than 1,100 patients with the coronavirus were hospitalized in the city , more than double the total from three weeks ago . <p> The numbers are far below those from the spring , when the city was a center of the pandemic and hundreds of virus-related deaths were reported each day . But Dr. Chokshi warned that the recent uptick in cases and hospitalizations followed a " tragically familiar pattern " that would likely bring more deaths as well . <p> Dr. Mitchell Katz , head of the city 's public hospital system , said that intensive-care units in the 11 public hospitals were about two-thirds full . But he also noted that the city had ventilators and personal-protective equipment ready if cases continued to rise . <p> " We are well prepared , " he said . <p> The state 's data show that 28 percent of the city 's intensive-care unit beds , across both public and private facilities , have been available on average in the last week . <p> The health commissioner 's advisory does not carry enforcement penalties , and does not require the closures of nonessential businesses , a move that would be under the authority of the state government . <p> The advisory , which mirrors guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , recommends that older adults and those with underlying health issues leave home only to travel to work or school , or for essential visits to the doctor , grocery stores or pharmacies . It also covers those sharing households with those people , like caregivers . <p> In a statement , the city said the advisory was intended to " moderate case growth and preserve hospital capacity . " State health officials have expressed a similar concern : that hospitals may be overwhelmed given an expected jump in cases during the holiday season . <p> On Tuesday , Gov . Andrew M. Cuomo said that 3,774 people were hospitalized with the virus in New York State , its highest total since late May . The seven-day average rate of positive test results statewide was 3.97 percent , according to state figures . <p> " My projection is that the numbers will continue to go up through the holiday season , " he said . <p> Still , as in the city , the spike in the state 's hospitalizations is far less steep than it was in late March and early April . <p> Gareth Rhodes , an aide to Mr. Cuomo , said on Twitter that the number of virus patients hospitalized in the state had risen by an average of 131 per day in the last week , compared to a weekly average of 1,225 per day in the spring . <p> New York City accounts for 31.8 percent of those hospitalized statewide , Mr. Rhodes said . In the spring , when hospitalizations climbed above 18,000 statewide , the city accounted for 64.7 percent of the state 's hospitalizations . <h> Advertisement <p> Preparing a shop ahead of reopening in London on Monday.Credit ... Andrew Testa for The New York Times <p> Much of England will swap lockdown for less stringent coronavirus restrictions , after Parliament approved new rules on Tuesday despite a substantial revolt among lawmakers in Prime Minister Boris Johnson 's Conservative Party . <p> The rebellion , by lawmakers who want to go farther in easing the limits on public life , underscored the rising tide of discontent among Mr. Johnson 's own members of Parliament over his handling of the pandemic , exacerbated by fears that the curbs could lay waste to large swathes of the hospitality industry . <p> Caught between the competing demands of this vocal faction of his lawmakers , and those of his more cautious scientific advisers , Mr. Johnson opted to keep stringent measures in place , including restrictions on many pubs and restaurants . <p> From Wednesday there will be some relaxation from the lockdown in all areas , as all stores , gyms , and hairdressers will be allowed to reopen . Religious services and weddings can restart , and limited numbers of spectators will be allowed at some outdoor sporting events . <p> But England will return to a system under which coronavirus restrictions differ from place to place , with areas of the country divided into three " tiers " based on an assessment of the coronavirus risks in each one . That is similar to the framework in place earlier in the year , which failed to prevent a second wave of the pandemic or avert last month 's lockdown . <p> In other global developments : <p> In France , President Emmanuel Macron said on Tuesday that he was considering implementing a widespread vaccination campaign next spring after a more targeted one for health workers and vulnerable populations . Mr. Macron , speaking at a news conference in Paris alongside Alexander De Croo , the Belgian prime minister , said there would probably be a first wave of priority vaccinations in early 2021 with first-generation vaccines , which might prove logistically complex to deploy . But Mr. Macron repeated that getting a vaccine would not be mandatory , and he insisted instead on a " strategy of conviction and transparency . " <p> The border between the United States and Canada will remain closed " until the virus is significantly more under control everywhere around the world , " Canada 's prime minister , Justin Trudeau , told the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation . The restrictions on nonessential travel , which were put in place March 21 and have been renewed monthly , do not affect trade . <p> Hamas , the militant group that rules the Gaza Strip , said on Tuesday that Yehya Sinwar , its chief in the territory , had tested positive for the coronavirus . Hamas said that Mr. Sinwar was doing " well " and was working while in quarantine . <p> Vietnam suspended commercial flights on Tuesday , two days after its first case was confirmed in 89 days . Two additional cases were reported in Ho Chi Minh City on Tuesday , both linked to a flight attendant who officials said violated quarantine regulations . Officials were working to trace the contacts of the three infected people , and Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc urged vigilance in prevention measures . <p> Ireland exited a six-week lockdown on Tuesday , reopening nonessential businesses , gyms and religious services . Health officials still discourage socializing , but groups of six people will be permitted inside bars and restaurants serving substantial meals starting on Friday . <p> The Netherlands began requiring masks in public buildings on Tuesday , making it one of Europe 's last countries to introduce the mandate . The government had long discouraged the use of masks , saying they promoted a false sense of security , before an abrupt shift in October when they advised people to use them . Violations under the new law will carry a fine of 95 euros , or $114 . <p> In Spain , the regional leader of Madrid , Isabel D ? az Ayuso , inaugurated her flagship infrastructure project : a new hospital on Tuesday focused on patients affected by epidemics like Covid-19 . The hospital has no patients yet , as only a quarter of its infrastructure has been installed and its medical staff is incomplete . Ms. D ? az Ayuso told reporters on Tuesday that " a new hospital can never be bad news , " but the project , which she announced in May , has come under intense criticism , with medical professionals and opposition politicians calling on her government to instead strengthen staffing and resources at existing hospitals . <p> After a Franciscan convent in northwestern Germany without a single known Covid-19 case tested its 161 nuns , 76 of the tests came back positive on Monday , signaling a potentially dangerous cluster in a religious community with many elderly members . " We have an outbreak , " Sister Maria Cordis Riker , who heads the convent , said in a telephone interview . " But we are grateful that so far , the course of the disease has been mild and no one is in hospital . " Local health authorities are trying to find out how the virus got into the convent , which has limited visits during the pandemic . For more than a century , the convent has maintained continuous prayer around the clock , but social distance and health regulations have obliged it to cut back to 50 percent of capacity -- one nun praying at a time , instead of the usual two . <p> The United Nations said that the coronavirus pandemic has created a record need for global humanitarian aid , forecasting that 235 million people will require aid in 2021 , an increase of 40 percent over the same period last year . The proportion of people needing aid rose to one in 33 people worldwide from one in 45 last year . Fighting off famine , poverty and disease while keeping children vaccinated and in school will require $35.1 billion in funding , or more than double the record $17 billion raised in 2020 , the United Nations said . <p> As the busiest shopping period of the year begins after a monthlong lockdown in England , two of Britain 's retail giants -- Debenhams and the Arcadia Group , which owns brands including Topshop and Miss Selfridge -- have toppled in the last two days . The retailers employ about 25,000 people . More bankruptcies are expected , as the lockdowns have relentlessly exposed retailers that were slow to invest in online sales . <p> Passengers leave Los Angeles International Airport after arriving from Shanghai , China , after a positive case of the coronavirus was announced in the Orange County suburb of Los Angeles in January.Credit ... Ringo Chiu/Reuters <p> The coronavirus may have infected people in the United States as early as Dec. 13 , more than a month earlier than researchers had thought , according to scientists who analyzed blood samples taken from American Red Cross donations . Outside scientists cautioned , however , that the virus was probably not spreading that early . <p> The researchers noted that they can not say whether the apparent infections were in travelers who had been infected in other countries , or whether the infections themselves were dead ends , and did not lead to community transmission . <p> Before this new report , the earliest documented infection in the country was on Jan. 19 in someone who had traveled to China . Although other genetic studies have suggested the possible presence of the virus earlier than Jan. 19 , the new study found that blood donations from nine states sent to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention carried coronavirus antibodies -- protein markers of past exposure to the virus . <p> But at least one prominent virus researcher cautioned that these results could be interpreted differently . Trevor Bedford , an epidemiologist at the University of Washington who has been deeply involved in genetic studies of how , when and where the virus has spread , said in a series of tweets that he thought the study could be identifying people who had antibodies to other human coronaviruses , which cause common colds , although he did not rule out that it may have picked up some cases of travelers who had been infected in other countries . <p> In more than 7,000 samples , 106 showed antibodies , they found . The researchers did not find these tests definitive , however , because they can sometimes reveal antibodies to other coronaviruses . <p> After further tests , they found one blood sample to be most convincing because it showed antibodies to a specific part of the SARS-CoV-2 protein . It was collected on Jan. 10 in Connecticut and was " likely from an individual with a past or active SARS-CoV-2 infection . " That person could have been infected while traveling . <p> About a dozen members of Congress have been infected in the last two weeks , and a patchwork of rules has led to inconsistent safety protocols.Credit ... Stefani Reynolds for The New York Times <p> Facing a dangerous spike in coronavirus cases among lawmakers , Congress 's attending physician appealed to members on Monday to steer clear of public dinners and receptions , stay in Washington rather than return home to their states between legislative sessions and keep masks on even when speaking on the House and Senate floors . <p> Dr. Brian P. Monahan 's recommendations were the most aggressive attempt yet to tamp down the spread of the virus around the Capitol , where about a dozen lawmakers have been infected in the last two weeks and a patchwork of rules has led to inconsistent safety protocols . <p> In a memo , the doctor detailed a relatively new rapid-testing program for lawmakers traveling to and from their home states , but also strongly discouraged them from traveling at all . <p> " During this time of dramatic and sustained increase in coronavirus transmission nationally , if you can remain in the Washington , D.C. , region and avoid travel , that would be preferable , " Dr. Monahan wrote . <p> After months of unevenly imposed virus guidelines on Capitol Hill , where virus precautions have been the subject of partisan disputes , the physician urged lawmakers to improve their social-distancing and mask-wearing practices . <p> " Due to experience in the Congress of increased disease frequency occurring in certain circumstances , I recommend that you DO NOT ATTEND dinners , receptions or restaurant gatherings outside of your family unit , " Dr. Monahan wrote . <p> While face coverings are already mandated on the House floor and strongly encouraged for senators , Dr. Monahan said they would also be " required " anytime lawmakers or aides had contact with people outside their family unit . He also asked lawmakers to keep their faces covered when speaking on the floor of either chamber , a change for many members who routinely remove their masks when speaking . <p> He added that while those working in the Capitol were allowed to eat with a mask off for brief periods of time , " you MAY NOT sit at a table with a beverage or a partially consumed food item without a face cover for a prolonged period . " <p> Dr. Monahan also encouraged lawmakers to switch from cloth facial coverings to surgical masks and to consider using face shields , especially when they fly or travel on public transportation . <p> " Wherever possible , wear a face shield in addition to a face cover if you anticipate close crowding at these occasions , " he wrote . <h> Advertisement <p> In June , the New Hampshire House of Representatives met in the Whittemore Center at the University of New Hampshire , its first meeting away from the State House since the Civil War.Credit ... Charles Krupa/Associated Press <p> When the New Hampshire legislature -- the largest in the country -- assembles on Wednesday to launch its new session , it will do so outdoors , for the sake of coronavirus safety . <p> The 400 members of the lower chamber , the House of Representatives , will congregate with plenty of social distance on a field hockey pitch at the University of New Hampshire in Durham , according to Paul Smith , the House clerk . Members who choose not to wear masks can attend , but will be put in a separate section from those who wear them . <p> The much smaller Senate , with 24 members , will meet separately at another spot on the campus , and then join with the House later in the day , Mr. Smith said . <p> The decision to move outdoors , rather than use the university 's sports arena as it had in the spring , was made on Sunday " out of abundance of caution , " he said : " The fact is , we 've seen an uptick in numbers across the state . " <p> The State Constitution calls for the legislature to convene on the first Wednesday in December of even-numbered years for what is known as Organization Day , when members are sworn in and a speaker is elected , among other organizational business . <p> The leaders of the new Republican majorities in each chamber -- Dick Hinch in the House and Chuck Morse in the Senate -- announced on Sunday that they had proposed moving Organization Day outdoors , because " an outdoor venue will lower the risk for all members and staff . " <p> The worry is n't hypothetical . After the House Republican caucus met at a ski resort in Manchester Nov. 20 , a number of attendees tested positive . The state health department said on Tuesday that it was " aware of cases stemming from the event , " and was conducting contact tracing . Mr. Hinch said in a statement that the number of people affected was " very small " and that he had no reason to think they would attend the legislative session on Wednesday . <p> The outgoing Democratic speaker , Steve Shurtleff , said on Tuesday that about 50 Republican members were refusing to wear masks during House sessions . Gov . Chris Sununu is now allowing members to be sworn in remotely , and once the news about the Manchester event broke , Mr. Shurtleff said , more members have been calling in to say they would choose that option and not appear in person . <p> Shifting gears to get 400 chairs set up outside on short notice " presented many logistical challenges , " Mr. Smith said . But so far , the weather forecast seems to be cooperating : partly cloudy and breezy , with temperatures in the low 40s . " Thank God that that 's happening , " he said . <p> Younger students , like those lined up for the first day of kindergarten at P.S. 161 in Brooklyn last September , would return to in-person learning under Mayor de Blasio 's plan.Credit ... Juan Arredondo for The New York Times <p> After a summer of uncertainty and fear about how schools across the globe would operate in a pandemic , a consensus has emerged in recent months that is becoming policy in more and more districts : In-person teaching with young children is safer than with older ones , and particularly crucial for their development . <p> On Sunday , New York City , home to the country 's largest school system , became the most high-profile example of that trend , when Mayor Bill de Blasio announced that only elementary schools and some schools for children with complex disabilities would reopen after all city classrooms were briefly shuttered in November . There is no plan yet to bring middle and high school students back into city school buildings . <p> It was an abrupt about-face for the mayor , who had for months promised to welcome all of the city 's 1.1 million children -- from 3-year-olds to high school seniors -- back into classrooms this fall . <p> But the decision put New York in line with other cities around America and across the world , which have reopened classrooms first , and often exclusively , for young children , and in some cases kept them open even as they have confronted second waves of the virus . <p> " With younger kids , we see this pleasant confluence of two facts : science tells us that younger children are less likely to contract , and seemingly less likely to transmit , the virus , " said Elliot Haspel , the author of Crawling Behind : America 's Child Care Crisis and How to Fix It . " And younger children are the ones that most need in-person schooling , and in-person interactions . " <p> Districts including Chicago , Washington D.C. and Philadelphia have either begun to bring back only young children or have plans to do so whenever they eventually reopen classrooms . <p> In Rhode Island , Gov . Gina Raimondo , a strong proponent of keeping schools open , recently asked colleges to shift to all-remote learning after Thanksgiving , and gave districts the option of reducing the number of high school students attending in person . But she asserted that middle and elementary schools were not sources of community spread . <p> Italy has kept its primary schools open but kept teaching remote for middle and high schools . All schools in Germany are open , and discussions about possible closures have focused mainly on high schools . <p> And in America , more and more districts have begun to prioritize elementary school students for in-person learning . <p> In urban districts that have been slow to reopen , that has meant making plans to bring back the youngest students . In parts of the Midwest where school districts were more aggressive about reopening , and where there has been a huge rise in cases in recent weeks , public health officials have prioritized keeping elementary schools open even as they have closed high schools and in some cases middle schools . <p> " The data is becoming more compelling that there is very limited transmission in day care and grade schools , " said Michael Osterholm , director of the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the University of Minnesota and a member of President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr . ' s coronavirus task force , in a recent interview . <p> " I keep telling people , ' Stop talking about kids -- talk about those younger than 10 , ' " he added . " We 're seeing a very different epidemiology in that group than we 're seeing , for example , in high school students . " <p> And while there 's great concern about how students are falling behind by not being in classrooms , new data released this week by the Northwest Evaluation Association , known as NWEA , a non-profit research group that provides assessments used by thousands of school districts to measure student growth and proficiency , shows that students lost modest ground in math , but held steady in reading on assessments administered this fall . <p> The analysis , based on the scores of 4.4 million students in grades three through eight , was on the whole encouraging , but came with important caveats . " While there 's some good news here , we want to stress that not all students are represented in the data , especially from our most marginalized communities , " said Beth Tarasawa , executive vice president of research at NWEA . " This increases the urgency to better connect to students and families who may be weathering the Covid storm very differently . " <p> A woman helped her daughter take a coronavirus test at the University of Minnesota last month.Credit ... Jenn Ackerman for The New York Times <p> A small but growing body of evidence , some of which has not yet been published in a peer-reviewed scientific journal , suggests that some rapid tests for the coronavirus may falter in children , letting low-level infections slip by unnoticed . <p> In a recent study of more than 1,600 people in Massachusetts , Binax NOW , a rapid test manufactured by Abbott Laboratories , caught 96.5 percent of the coronavirus infections found by a more accurate laboratory test in adults with symptoms . But the rapid test detected just 77.8 percent of the symptomatic cases in people 18 or under . Among people without symptoms , the test faltered further , identifying 70.2 percent of adults and 63.6 percent of children . <p> Another recent paper , published in November in Clinical Microbiology and Infection , found that a different rapid test by Abbott , called the PanBio , identified just 62.5 percent of coronavirus cases in people 16 or younger , compared with 82.6 percent of infections in adults , although the number of pediatric samples tested was small . <p> Children rarely seem to be stricken with serious cases of Covid , and the youngest among them may also be less likely to pass the coronavirus on to others . But the new findings should encourage more in-depth studies of diagnostic tools for the virus in pediatric populations , health experts said . <p> In medicine , children are often " assumed to be just miniature versions of grown-ups , " said Jennifer Dien Bard , a clinical microbiologist at Children 's Hospital Los Angeles . " But they are not just small adults . It 's really important that any testing that is available , that there are specific strategies offered for children and their specific needs . " <p> It may be that children are naturally predisposed to carry less of the virus . They might even be less likely to transmit it to others . For now , however , " if your goal is to detect infection , molecular tests are the way to go , " said Dr. Nira Pollock , the associate medical director of the infectious-diseases diagnostic laboratory at Boston Children 's Hospital , referring to laboratory diagnostics that use a different , less rapid method called polymerase chain reaction . <h> Advertisement <p> The White House Christmas decorations are themed " America the beautiful . " The holiday season is one area where the norm-breaking president appears intent on savoring tradition.Credit ... Doug Mills/The New York Times <p> The red and gold party invitations make no mention of the coronavirus , nor do they acknowledge the holiday message that public health officials have been trying to emphasize to Americans : Stay home . <p> Instead , the invitations are the latest example of how President Trump is spending his final weeks in office operating in an alternative universe , denying the realities of life during the pandemic . <p> " The president and Mrs. Trump request the pleasure of your company at a holiday reception to be held at the White House , " reads the cursive text , displayed under a presidential seal . <p> Invitations to at least 20 White House parties , the first one on Monday at 7 p.m. , have been sent out so far , according to administration officials . The guest lists include current and former officials and allies , some from out of state ; Republican National Committee officials ; campaign staff members ; and some Republicans on Capitol Hill . <p> The holiday party season , canceled across most of Washington , will be a rare time when the White House will feel busy . Inside the West Wing in recent weeks , there has been noticeably less foot traffic in and out of the Oval Office , as staff members pondering their career moves give a president who refuses to concede some space . Mr. Trump has made few public appearances since the election was called for Joseph R. Biden Jr . <p> But the holiday season at the White House -- complete with a gingerbread house made with 25 pounds of chocolate and 25 pounds of royal icing by the in-house pastry team -- is one area where the norm-breaking president appears intent on savoring tradition . <p> On the afternoon of Dec. 11 , Mr. Trump is hosting a party for the West Wing staff and their families . There are also receptions planned for the evenings of Dec. 14 and Dec. 16 , according to guests and copies of invitations . Officials said there were at least 20 holiday events on the calendar through December . <p> Stephanie Grisham , the chief of staff to Melania Trump , the first lady , said guests would be strongly encouraged to wear masks when they were not eating and the guest lists were smaller than usual . She did not say how many people were invited to each event . <p> Other restrictions were being put in place that were not instituted when the president hosted a large crowd for an indoor party on election night . <p> " Guests will enjoy food individually plated by chefs at plexiglass-protected food stations , " Ms. Grisham said in a statement . " All passed beverages will be covered . All service staff will wear masks and gloves to comply with food safety guidelines . Attending the parties will be a very personal choice . It is a longstanding tradition for people to visit and enjoy the cheer and iconic d ? cor of the annual White House Christmas celebrations . " <p> The latest guidance from Mayor Muriel E. Bowser of Washington , a Democrat , limits indoor gatherings in the city to no more than 10 people . Beginning Dec. 14 , restaurants in Washington are allowed to operate indoors only at 25 percent capacity . <p> The White House is exempt from the city 's restrictions because it is on federal property . <p> Stanford coach David Shaw during a game . Stanford will practice and play on the road the next two weeks because of coronavirus restrictions in Santa Clara County , Calif.Credit ... Jed Jacobsohn/Associated Press <p> Stanford University is taking its football team on the road to maneuver around public health restrictions in California . <p> In a statement on Tuesday , Stanford said its team would leave for Seattle later in the day to practice for Saturday 's game against the University of Washington . Next week , Stanford will prepare for its game against Oregon State University from Corvallis , Ore. , after Pac-12 Conference officials moved the matchup there from the Stanford campus . <p> The university 's decision came a few days after the authorities in Santa Clara County , where Stanford is located , temporarily banned " all recreational activities that involve physical contact or close proximity to persons outside one 's household . " <p> " I am gravely concerned by the continuing surge in Covid-19 cases and hospitalizations , " Dr. Sara Cody , the Santa Clara County health officer , said when officials announced the new restrictions . " The number of patients hospitalized with Covid-19 in our county has doubled in just the past couple of weeks , and we are at risk of exceeding our hospital capacity very soon if current trends continue . " <p> The county 's order also affected the San Francisco 49ers , who will play their next two " home " games near Phoenix . San Jose State University , which is also in Santa Clara County , has not yet announced its plans to comply with the new restrictions , which will be in effect until at least Dec. 21 . <p> Hamas , the militant group that rules the Gaza Strip , said on Tuesday that Yehya Sinwar , its chief in the territory , had tested positive for the coronavirus . Hamas said that Mr. Sinwar was doing " well " and was working while in quarantine . <p> Vietnam suspended commercial flights on Tuesday , two days after its first case was confirmed in 89 days . Two additional cases were reported in Ho Chi Minh City on Tuesday , both linked to a flight attendant who officials said violated quarantine regulations . Officials were working to trace the contacts of the three infected people , and Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc urged vigilance in prevention measures . <p> Ireland exited a six-week lockdown on Tuesday , reopening nonessential businesses , gyms and religious services . Health officials still discouraged socializing , but groups of six people will be permitted inside bars and restaurants serving substantial meals starting on Friday . <p> The Netherlands began requiring masks in public buildings on Tuesday , making it one of Europe 's last countries to introduce the mandate . The government had long discouraged the use of masks , saying they promoted a false sense of security , before an abrupt shift in October when they advised people to use them . Violations under the new law will carry a fine of 95 euro , or $114 . <p> Some states are using emergency cellphone alerts regarding the coronavirus pandemic.Credit ... Susan Montoya Bryan/Associated Press <p> It was the day before Thanksgiving when Brian Stone , of Tilghman , Md. , heard the alarm ring from his phone : the jarring buzz that tells people to look out for missing children or evacuate their homes to escape an advancing wildfire . <p> But this alert was different : It told him to wear a face mask and to expect stricter enforcement of coronavirus health orders . <p> Mr. Stone then turned off the notification system . <p> " You get this beep , this electronic sound , and you think it 's something important , and it 's just ' Wear a mask and be safe , ' " said Mr. Stone , whose wife , Ellen , wrote a letter to The Baltimore Sun about the emergency alert . " It was n't an emergency . " <p> Ed McDonough , a spokesman for the Maryland Emergency Management Agency , said : " We 've been trying to be very judicious in how we use it . " Mr. McDonough said officials felt that with families gathering for Thanksgiving , it was important to remind them to be as safe as possible . <p> State and local officials are turning to the Wireless Emergency Alert system to warn residents of rising case counts and of other public health issues related to the virus . The model allows police departments and other public agencies to warn residents with geographically targeted messages , usually when there is severe weather or a child has been abducted . <p> In Los Angeles , officials used the system to tell residents that virus testing sites were expanding their hours ahead of the holidays . <p> On Monday , Rhode Island issued an alert to warn residents that hospitals were at capacity . And in Pennsylvania , Gov . Tom Wolf said in a news release last week that the state would use the alerts to target specific regions of the state with high case counts . <p> While emergency alerts provide an easy way to get important information to residents , the system also potentially oversaturates people with messages , creating a " boy who cried wolf " effect that could lead people , like Mr. Stone , to become disillusioned with the system . <p> Mr. Wolf said the alerts are " one more way to reach as many Pennsylvanians as we can to provide timely information on Covid-19 . " <p> " Today 's announcement marks another key milestone in our efforts to fulfill our promise to do everything we can to address this dire crisis given the critical public health need , " Dr. Albert Bourla , chief executive of Pfizer , said in a statement . <p> " We will continue to work with regulatory agencies around the world to enable the rapid distribution , should the vaccine receive the approval , contributing to the joint efforts to let the world heal and regain its normal pace of life , " said Ugur Sahin , co-Founder of BioNTech , the German start-up that created the vaccine . <p> If the applications are approved by the European Medicines Agency , the first doses could be available before the end of the month . The agency is " assessing all the applicationsfor COVID-19 medicines under the minimum time framenecessary to allow for a thorough evaluation of the medicine 's benefits and risks , " it said . <p> If the agency concludes that the benefits of the vaccine outweigh its risks , it will recommend a conditional marketing authorization , which the European Commission will then fast-track to approve in all European member states within days . <p> On Tuesday , BioNTech officials , speaking at a news conference , said vaccine doses were waiting for approval to be shipped . <p> " We have produced a stockpile ; everything that we have can really be distributed within a few hours , " said Sierk Poetting , the company 's chief financial officer and chief operating officer . <p> A Palestinian refugee receiving aid last month at the United Nations center in Gaza City.Credit ... Mohammed Abed/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images <p> The coronavirus pandemic has created a record need for global humanitarian aid , the United Nations said on Tuesday , forecasting that 235 million people will require aid in 2021 , an increase of 40 percent over the same period last year . <p> The proportion of people needing aid rose to one in 33 people worldwide from one in 45 last year . Fighting off famine , poverty and disease , while keeping children vaccinated and in school , will require $35.1 billion in funding , or more than double the record $17 billion raised in 2020 , the United Nations said . <p> Even as much of the world looks with hope to promising coronavirus vaccines , which could begin to be rolled out as early as next month , the lingering impact of the pandemic -- including rising food prices , falling incomes and halted education -- will disproportionately hit more vulnerable people , said Mark Lowcock , organization 's humanitarian and emergency relief efforts . <p> Extreme poverty will increase for the first time since the ' 90s , life expectancy will fall , deaths from diseases like malaria and tuberculosis will double , twice as many people will face starvation , and many children will be unable to go back to school , he said . <p> " The rich world can now see the light at the end of the tunnel , " Mr. Lowcock said . " The same is not true in the poorest countries . The Covid-19 crisis has plunged millions of people into poverty and sent humanitarian needs skyrocketing . " <p> The United Nations presented its forecast in Geneva on Tuesday as it introduced its Global Humanitarian Overview , an annual assessment of projected needs . At the same event last December , before the coronavirus outbreak had grown to a global pandemic , the United Nations predicted 168 million people would need aid in 2020 , requiring $28.8 billion in funding . <p> Its plan for 2021 would target aid to 160 million people in 56 countries , with the largest populations in Yemen , Ethiopia , the Democratic Republic of Congo , Afghanistan , Sudan , Syria and Nigeria . <p> Students at a high school in California in October . Schools in the state have relied on remote learning since March , exacerbating inequality among students.Credit ... Salgu Wissmath for The New York Times <p> Seven families sued the state of California on Monday over the quality of education that their children are receiving at home this year , saying they have been left behind by the shift to remote learning during the pandemic . <p> The suit argues that a lack of attention to the realities of remote learning has exacerbated inequality in schools and deprived minority students from poor families of their right to an education . <p> " The change in the delivery of education left many already underserved students functionally unable to attend school , " the lawsuit , which was filed Monday in the Alameda County Superior Court , asserts . " The state continues to refuse to step up and meet its constitutional obligation to ensure basic educational equality or indeed any education at all . " <p> The plaintiffs include 15 Black and Latino students in Oakland and Los Angeles , who range from kindergartners to high school seniors . The suit details their individual struggles as they try to continue their education despite a lack of sufficient computers , internet access and instruction . <p> For two twins in Oakland , who were in second grade when distance learning began , the experience " barely resembled learning , " the suit said . Their teacher held remote classes only twice between March 17 and the end of the school year . When the twins ' mother asked why , the teacher responded that because some students could not connect to the internet , classes were canceled for everyone , it said . The mother " felt like her children had been written off . " <p> Representatives of the state of California could not immediately be reached for comment . <p> California schools , with more than six million students , have relied on mostly remote learning since March . Early progress reports this fall showed a sharp drop in performance as students struggled to learn from home . 
@@86352311 <p> I suspect that Israel chose to assassinate a high-level Iranian nuclear scientist with more than tacit approval from the outgoing Trump administration . Israel 's prime minister , Benjamin Netanyahu , apparently saw what was undoubtedly his last chance to attack Iran , knowing that the incoming Biden administration would have no part in such an action , since Joe Biden wishes to build bridges instead of destroying them . <p> A sad commentary indeed on President Trump and the lengths to which he will go to make it difficult for Mr. Biden to overcome the president 's hateful legacy . <p> Barbara Slavin argues that the assassination of Iran 's leading nuclear scientist , Mohsen Fakhrizadeh , was intended to and will make diplomacy with Iran more difficult . <p> Successful diplomacy is carried out from a position of strength , not weakness . Israel 's diplomatic position is enhanced when Iran is made to understand that its continuing pursuit of nuclear weapons will not be without cost . <p> Ms. Slavin asserts that , as a result of the assassination , " Iran may increase its support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long been supporting these terrorist organizations and continued to do so before the ink was dry on its nuclear deal with the West . It hardly qualifies as " diplomacy " for the United States or Israel to be guided by a rogue nation 's threat not only to continue but also to increase its fomenting of terrorism . <p> Kenneth A. MargolisChappaqua , N.Y . <p> To the Editor : <p> Iran 's choice is not only between retaliation or waiting for a Biden administration to run interference for it . <p> There is a third option on the table : Iran can finally heed its citizens ' repeated demands to abandon its imperial ambitions and focus on their needs . The Iranian people have spoken out repeatedly and at great personal cost , getting gunned down or imprisoned . All they want is a government that will focus on their well-being and stop spending its resources on visions of imperial grandeur . <p> The Iranian people have no hatred for Jews and no interest in imposing their dictates on their Sunni neighbors . President Barack Obama ignominiously turned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The question now is whether President Biden will make the same mistake and side with the ayatollahs against their own people . <p> Charles KnappRoxbury , Conn . <p> To the Editor : <p> Barbara Slavin describes the assassination of the military officer in charge of Iran 's nuclear bomb program as an illegal criminal act under international law . She did not express concern about possible violation of international law for a regime repeatedly threatening to destroy another country ; exporting arms to support conflicts in Yemen , Syria , Lebanon , Gaza and Iraq that have displaced large numbers of civilians ; or building a weapon of mass destruction . <p> Welcome to an Alice in Wonderland understanding of international law . <p> Steven WilfHartford , Conn.The writer is a professor of global commerce at the University of Connecticut School of Law . 
@@62435714 <p> RAMALLAH , West Bank ( Reuters ) - Israel handed over a backlog of billions of shekels in tax money to the Palestinian Authority on Wednesday , both sides said , in another sign of warming ties between the sides after the U.S. presidential election victory of Joe Biden . <p> Slideshow ( 2 images ) <p> The taxes , managed by Israel under interim peace accords from the 1990s and usually handed over monthly , make up more than half of the budget of the Palestinian Authority ( PA ) , whose economy has been hard hit by the coronavirus pandemic . <p> The 3.77 billion shekels ( $1.14 billion ) transfer is the first since June , when the Palestinians snubbed the handover due to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's plans , currently suspended , to annex parts of the occupied West Bank . <p> The Palestinians also rejected the cash several times in 2019 after Israel trimmed the sum in retaliation for funds going to the families of jailed or killed militants . It usually amounts to about $190 million a month . <p> " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the account of the #Palestinian Authority , " Palestinian Affairs minister of civil affairs Hussein al-Sheikh tweeted , giving the figure as 3.768 billion shekels . <p> The Israeli Finance Ministry confirmed the details . <p> The PA has been unable to pay full wages of its 130,000 employees in the past months . Palestinian Prime Minister Mohammad Shtayyeh said this week it would pay full salaries once it received the tax money . <p> Israel froze its annexation plans in August as part of an agreement to forge diplomatic ties with the United Arab Emirates . The Palestinians in November said they were resuming civil and security cooperation with Israel suspended over the annexation . The announcement came about two weeks after Biden beat incumbent Donald Trump in the U.S. presidential race . <p> Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas has since indicated he will drop his three-year political boycott of the White House . <p> " Right now we are sending clear messages not only to the Israelis , not only to the Biden administration but also to the Europeans and many others that Palestine , and the Palestinians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Foreign Minister Riyad al-Maliki said in a Nov 26 video conference . <p> ( $1 = 3.2861 shekels ) <p> Reporting by Nidal al-Mughrabi in Gaza , Ali Sawafta in Ramallah and Maayan Lubell in Jerusalem ; Writing by Maayan Lubell ; Editing by 
@@86361413 <p> Pompeo announced the policy shift while on travel to Israel and ahead of a visit to the Israeli settlement of Psagot in the West Bank , marking the first time a sitting secretary of State has traveled to an Israeli settlement . <p> The Trump administration has supported numerous policy shifts legitimizing Israeli settlements in the West Bank that the international community considers illegal . Pompeo reversed a State Department ruling last year that the U.S. would no longer consider Israeli settlements illegal . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Pompeo said the new State Department guidance applies to Israeli goods made in areas " where Israel exercises the relevant authorities , " notably settlements in Area C of the West Bank -- territory that is under Israeli civil and military control as determined by the 1993 Oslo Accords . <p> Such products when exported to the United States will be labeled as " Israel , " " Product of Israel " or " Made in Israel . " <p> Pompeo further said that products made in territory under the control of the Palestinian Authority will be recognized as products of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given to products made in Gaza . <p> In a statement on Thursday , the secretary said the new policy recognizes that the territories are separately administered by the Palestinian Authority in the West Bank and Hamas in the Gaza Strip . <p> " Under the new approach , we will no longer accept ' West Bank/Gaza ' or similar markings , in recognition that Gaza and the West Bank are ? politically and administratively separate and should be treated ? accordingly , " he said in a statement . ? <p> Pompeo is considered a top contender for the 2024 Republican presidential ticket , and pro-Israel bona fides are typically a high selling point for support among the voting base . He received personal praise from Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin NetanyahuBenjamin ( Bibi ) NetanyahuMORE on Thursday , who thanked the secretary of State . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> " Thank you , Mike , for your tremendous friendship , and for your invaluable contribution to our alliance and to Israel 's security and to the expansion of the circle of peace , " Netanyahu said . " Thank you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year in Jerusalem . " <p> The move by the Trump administration further puts the U.S. at odds with the European Union . The EU 's top court ruled in November 2019 that exports to the EU from Israeli settlements must be specifically labeled from its place of origin and would not accept a " Made in Israel " tag . <p> Pompeo 's announcement is likely to receive backlash from European governments and human rights groups that argue Israeli settlements in the West Bank contribute to human rights abuses against Palestinians and harm efforts to reach a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . <p> Pompeo posted a photo of himself at the Psagot winery on Twitter , saying these types of businesses " have been targeted by pernicious EU labeling efforts that facilitate the boycott of Israeli companies . " <p> Enjoyed lunch at the scenic Psagot Winery today . Unfortunately , Psagot and other businesses have been targeted by pernicious EU labeling efforts that facilitate the boycott of Israeli companies . The U.S. stands with Israel and will not tolerate any form of delegitimization. **26;575;TOOLONG <p> The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Department would identify and label as anti-Semitic organizations it believes support the " BDS " movement . <p> The boycott , divestment and sanctions movement is an organized effort to boycott Israel culturally , academically and politically over its settlement policies . <p> Opponents of the BDS movement say it seeks to delegitimize and internationally isolate Israel and pressure it into negotiations with the Palestinians . <p> Supporters say it is a legitimate expression of free speech . The State Department 's updated policy is expected to target human rights groups that are critical of Israel , including Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch , in a move the groups say will harm its efforts to monitor human rights across the world . 
@@86374511 <h> Hamas is under growing pressure-again-in the Strip . The rockets fired in the past two weeks are meant to pass that message to Israel <p> Two rockets were fired at Israel from the Gaza Strip , one week apart from each other . While the IDF shrugged off the first , blaming it on bad weather , it 's now clear . It was not a mistake . It was a message . Hamas is under pressure , and it 's getting worse . <p> The coronavirus pandemic is wreaking havoc in the blockaded enclave , and Hamas -- which is in no mood for conflict with Israel -- tends to send messages in the form of incendiary balloons or rockets when it is under pressure and needs aid . <p> Though the group was able to effectively deal with the deadly virus during the first wave , the blockaded coastal enclave is suffering from a harsh second wave of the coronavirus , with more than 5,517 total cases and 65 deaths , the majority since September . <p> The Strip 's weak healthcare infrastructure , with fewer than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sick , and is also seeing a record number of daily new cases -- on Saturday alone the Health Ministry said there were 891 new cases . <p> Fathi Abu Warda , adviser to the Palestinian health minister in Gaza , was quoted by Wafa news agency as saying on Sunday that there was an " unprecedented hike " in the number of cases and that the European Hospital in Khan Yunis in the south of the Gaza Strip has reached its limit in receiving coronavirus cases . <p> Thanks to the international aid Israel has let into the Strip , Hamas has been able to increase its testing capabilities from 200 a day during the first wave to 3,500 a day , and the number of ventilators has risen to 160 . <p> Abu Warda also said two truckloads of " urgent medical aid , " including respirators and medication for those with chronic illnesses , will enter the Strip in the coming days . <p> In addition to the coronavirus crisis , the economy is still a disaster -- with the unemployment rate in Gaza close to 50% @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The average monthly income has fallen from $244 to $29 since March . <p> Israel 's defense establishment and Southern Command have warned several times that there is a direct link between a worsening economy and rocket fire or incendiary balloons . <p> Hamas is also becoming further isolated , including from the Palestinian Authority , which recently resumed security cooperation with Israel following the victory of US President-elect Joe Biden . Following the resumption of security ties , Palestinian security forces in the West Bank are expected to renew their arrests of Hamas operatives in the territory . <p> The normalization of ties between Israel and Gulf states has also placed a strain on Hamas . <p> And that , the IDF fears , will lead to closer ties with Israel 's enemy on its northern border -- Hezbollah . Already following the deal with the United Arab Emirates , Ismail Haniyeh , who heads Hamas 's political bureau , met with Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah in Beirut . <p> There have been more than a dozen rounds of violent clashes between the IDF and terror groups since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thousands of Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad targets struck by the Israel Air Force in retaliation . <p> But all of them ended without any tangible solution , leading the IDF to change its concept toward a new approach , called " Southern Wind , " which would use higher-quality intelligence and firepower to shorten the length of an operation . <p> A new concept is all fine and dandy , but when push comes to shove and a large-scale military operation takes place , neither side will end up as a winner . You just have to look at the recent history of the military operations in the Gaza Strip where nothing changed , except that both sides experienced more death and destruction . <p> Neither side wants a large-scale military operation , and the IDF believes that Yahya Sinwar , Hamas 's leader in the Strip , as well as the head of its military wing , Mohammed Deif , still prefer to follow the status quo and avoid confrontation with the IDF . <p> The rockets fired by Hamas are a message sent by Sinwar , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The pressure is rising and something needs to be done before the situation explodes . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@86378202 <h> The chaplain 's tool that Joe Biden knows and you do n't -- listening , not convincing <p> Please note that the posts on The Blogs are contributed by third parties . The opinions , facts and any media content in them are presented solely by the authors , and neither The Times of Israel nor its partners assume any responsibility for them . Please contact us in case of abuse . In case of abuse , Report this post . <p> There 's a meme going around the internet that says that , in the wake of his big election loss , Trump is undergoing an unusual path through the five ( or some say seven ) stages of grief , vacillating rapidly back and forth between only two of them -- anger , denial ; anger , denial ; anger ; denial . <p> It 's a good point -- that Trump does not appear to be progressing towards the acceptance that is supposed to be at the end of a healthy grief process . But here 's the thing . Many liberals also seem to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own big electoral disappointments . <p> The New York Times op-ed pages , for example , are full of pieces adamantly refusing to engage in any self-reflection and instead doubling-down on blaming the supposed moral bankruptcy of Trump voters . Wajahat Ali , for example , starts his NYT piece with the words , " I give up " . He 's talking about the notion that it 's worth reaching out to Trump voters and seeking to empathize with them . Ali claims he did that extensively since Trump 's 2016 presidential victory . " I told my speaking agency to book me for events in the states where Mr. Trump won , " he writes . <p> Yet , upon closer examination , there 's little sign that Ali was actually interesting in empathizing . Rather , he judges his effort a failure because not one person he talked to " told me they 'd wavered in their support for " Trump . That is , if he did n't convince somebody to change their vote he judged his listening effort to be a failure . <p> One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chaplain is that it 's possible to affirm , or validate , you 've heard what another person has said without agreeing with them . Trust me , when I was working as a chaplain in a hospital in Berks County Pa. , a place with its share of Confederate flags and right-wing voters , I heard patients express many things that I , especially as Jew , did not agree with . But I listened . I tried to understand . I tried to see what it looked like from where they were sitting . <p> Why ? Well , as a hospital chaplain it was my job . But it 's also my spirituality , my theology -- I deeply believe that the only true path to making the world a better place is to make each person feel like there truly is a place for them in it , that their pain and suffering is heard . And that they are free to express their joys and to seek to live their lives to the fullest . It 's only when people feel heard that they will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feel heard that you can move towards righting deeply ingrained injustices . <p> Call me a naive idealist if you want . But I think Joe Biden thinks that way , too . He knows you do n't have to agree with people in order to move towards national healing by helping them to feel heard . I think he knows that you can still fight passionately for what you believe in without making the person on the other side feel demonized . That 's the only way to rebuild the basic trust in institutions and government that 's been so damaged in recent decades , no more corrosively than in these four years of Trump . <p> I wish the New York Times would learn some of that value of empathizing . I was amazed , for example , to read a piece that did n't seem to include any effort to understand the position of average Myanmar voters in their granting a landslide recently to the party of Nobel Peace Prize winner Aung San Suu Kyi . Instead , the writer focused on how the leader has lost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ <p> I do n't want to defend Aung San Suu Kyi 's misdeeds -- which , as they include countenancing genocide , seem far worse than any that Trump ( or for that matter , Netanhayu ) has ever done . But I 'm still appalled by the writer 's failure to say anything about how " her popularity at home has endured " even as she has " squandered the moral authority that came with her Nobel Peace Prize " . Seriously , what hope do we have of ever convincing people to respect the human rights of others if we never even talk to them -- only to people like us ? <p> I 'm hoping for a better world . I 'm more specifically hoping for a better Israel , one that is both free of Netanyahu and that is on a true path to a peace with the Palestineans . But the refusal of so many on the left here ( yes , I 'm talking to you especially , the journalists at Haaretz ) to even try to show some compassion and understand the motives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 're one of my liberal US friends who bothered to read this far in this piece , my guess is you 've never even heard of the latest rain in rockets from Gaza . But Israeli voters know . And many of the are still bearing emotional scars from the murderous terrorist bombings of the second intifada . It 's the scars from violence old and new that help Bibi remain in power . <p> Trump , however I 'm happy to say , will be gone come Jan. 20 . We voted him out . But he , or his successor , will be back come 2024 . If we want to win that election too we have to start listening now . Luckily , Joe Biden appears to know that . <p> About the Author <p> Alan Abrams is a spiritual care educator who made Aliyah in 2014 . He and his wife live in Jerusalem with their two " sabra " children . Alan is the founder of HavLi and the HaKen Institute , spiritual care education and research centers based in Jerusalem . A rabbi , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his dissertation on the theology of pastoral care . He was a business journalist in his first career . 
@@42538212 <p> Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said Tuesday that a cache of leaked documents proves that Chinese authorities are engaged in massive and systemic repression of Muslims and other minorities in western China , as a number of foreign governments expressed serious concern about the scale of the campaign . Pompeo said the documents underscored " an overwhelming and growing body of evidence " that ... <p> Britain got Brexit breathing space but no clarity on Monday when the European Union granted a three-month delay to the U.K. 's departure from the bloc . British politicians immediately began using the extra time to do what they have done for more than three years -- bicker about Brexit . <p> British Prime Minister Boris Johnson 's career of disdain for the European Union was a thing of the past on Thursday as he and the bloc 's leaders celebrated their tentative Brexit deal . He now faces an opponent closer to home : his own Parliament . With the ink barely dry on the proposal and Johnson still happily backslapping EU leaders at a summit ... <p> European Union authorities on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cross-border online sales of toys , mugs , bags and other products featuring the cartoon cat girl . The EU 's antitrust commissioner , Margrethe Vestager , said that Sanrio Co. was fined 6.2 million euros ( $7 million ) because the company violated the bloc 's competition rules with licensing agreements that banned traders ... <p> European Union authorities on Tuesday fined the Japanese company behind Hello Kitty for restricting cross-border online sales of toys , mugs , bags and other products featuring the cartoon cat girl . The EU 's antitrust commissioner , Margrethe Vestager , said that Sanrio Co. was fined 6.2 million euros ( $7 million ) because the company violated the bloc 's competition rules with licensing agreements that banned traders ... <p> As the biggest U.S. technology companies face increasing scrutiny from regulators related to privacy practices and market control , they 're spending a lot more money to try and influence lawmakers . No company in America is pouring more money into those efforts than Google . Last year , the company spent $21.7 million on lobbying , according to the Center for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ making cars in the first quarter as its automotive division was hit by a 1.4 billion-euro ( $1.6 billion ) set-aside for an anti-trust fine from the European Commission and by higher up-front costs for new technology and factories . The fine and investment spending , along with weaker pricing in some markets , led to an operating loss for the company 's ... <p> Exactly 1,000 days after Britain voted to leave the European Union , and nine days before it is scheduled to walk out the door , Prime Minister Theresa May hit the pause button Wednesday , asking the bloc to postpone the U.K. 's departure until June 30 . EU leaders , who are exasperated by Britain 's Brexit melodrama , will only grant the extension if May can ... <p> European Union leaders offered a united chorus of " No " on Wednesday to Britain 's belated bid to negotiate changes to the Brexit divorce deal , with one official calling on British lawmakers to stop bickering and work out a cross-party approach . In London , Prime Minister Theresa May acknowledged that her government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the deal ... <p> Plastic knives just wo n't cut it any longer , if the European Union has its way . The 28-nation bloc moved closer to banning single-use straws , plates , cutlery and cotton swabs , after officials from EU member states and the European Parliament on Wednesday backed recommendations by its executive branch designed to reduce marine pollution . Environmental campaigners have been calling for curbs on ... <p> The European Union and Britain have agreed on a draft declaration on the future of their political relations after Brexit , European Council President Donald Tusk said Thursday , paving the way for an EU summit this weekend to rubber-stamp the deal . The draft declaration was agreed upon at a technical level by negotiators and endorsed Thursday by the European Commission , the ... <p> Italy said Saturday that Malta and France had agreed to take 100 of the 450 migrants who were rescued from a fishing boat in the Mediterranean , claiming victory in the latest standoff but demanding even greater European solidarity . Premier Giuseppe Conte said that Malta and France had come forward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ... <p> The European Union on Wednesday announced it will start imposing duties from July on a list of U.S. products in response to President Donald Trump 's decision to slap tariffs on steel and aluminum imports from Europe . " The new duties start applying in July , " European Commission Vice-President Maros Sefcovic told reporters . " It is a measured and proportionate response to the unilateral ... <p> The Israeli military on Monday said it struck an underground militant infrastructure site in Gaza in response to rocket fire toward Israel . The airstrikes came amid days of renewed tensions and violence along the Gaza border . The military has struck various targets in Gaza in recent days and killed two Palestinians who tried to infiltrate Israel after a militant bomb ... <p> Britain and the European Union hammered out a deal early Friday that allows Brexit talks to finally move on to the all-important issues of trade and the future relationship between the two . But some of the details appeared contradictory and leave some of the toughest issues unresolved . The last stumbling block had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 
@@72493400 <h> Restitution fund for victims of Jeffrey Epstein faces over 100 claims <p> The Victims ' Compensation Program set up by the estate of Jeffrey Epstein has paid out more than $30 million in restitution after receiving over 100 claims since July , The New York Times reports . <p> The American Jewish financier died by suicide in August 2019 in a Manhattan federal jail cell while awaiting a trial for allegedly trafficking minors across state lines . <p> Since Epstein placed the nearly $600 million he possessed at the time of his death in a trust just days before his passing , many were initially wary about whether his victims would have an easy route to seeing restitution money . <p> But Jordana Feldman , the lawyer in charge of the program , told The Times that the program processes all claims within 60 days , and she personally interviews claimants . <p> " It gives the victims an opportunity to tell their story , and it gives me an opportunity to get to know them in a way that ca n't be fully captured in a paper file @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the rawness of the emotions . There is a very deep , long-lasting impact that the abuse has had on their lives . " <p> According to the program 's rules , restitution is available even to those who had reached settlements with Epstein during his lifetime . <p> The rules were designed by a group of experts in claims resolution management , including Feldman , who has in the past worked with efforts to create restitution programs for victims of sexual abuse from the Catholic Church and Penn State University . <p> Denise N. George , the attorney general of the Virgin Islands , who had criticized past efforts by the estate to set up restitution programs , also contributed to the program 's design . <p> Spencer Kuvin , a Miami based lawyer representing nine women who have submitted claims to the program , said that the process of seeking restitution through the fund " is light-years different " from the legal battles he went through to secure settlements during Epstein 's life . <p> Currently , the Victims ' Compensation Program is financed through Southern Trust @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Islands and a part of his estate . But according to its website , the program is under the full and complete administration of Feldman . <h> Tagged as : <h> States , FTC say Facebook is a monopoly <p> New York 's Attorney General Letitia James filed a lawsuit Wednesday against Facebook for what her office says is the social media giant 's effort to illegally stifle competition . <p> New York is joined in the suit by 46 other state attorneys general and the attorneys general of the District of Columbia and Guam . Separately , the Federal Trade Commission filed a complaint against the social media giant on Wednesday in U.S. District Court in Washington , D.C. <p> Georgia , South Dakota , Alabama and South Carolina did not join the case . <p> " For nearly a decade , Facebook has used its dominance and monopoly power to crush smaller rivals and snuff out competition , all at the expense of everyday users , " said James in a press release . " Almost every state in this nation has joined this bipartisan lawsuit because Facebook @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were harmful . Today 's suit should send a clear message to Facebook and every other company that any efforts to stifle competition , reduce innovation , or cut privacy protections will be met with the full force of our offices . " <p> Facebook founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg , who is Jewish , has stated that he wanted to " build a competitive moat " around the company by acquiring smaller rivals and cutting off integration to third party developers it views as threats . <h> States , FTC accuse Facebook of monopolizing social media <p> The coalition of states is asking the courts to block what the press release describes as Facebook 's " anticompetitive conduct ; " keep the company from paying $10 million or more for acquisitions without advanced notice to the states involved in the suit ; and , if the court thinks it 's suitable , ask Facebook to restructure " illegally acquired companies " like WhatsApp and Instagram . <p> The lawsuit focuses on Facebook 's purchases of Instagram in 2012 for $1 billion and WhatsApp in 2014 for nearly $19 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the social media market gives users little control over how their private information is collected and disseminated . <p> " The company is now able to make decisions about how to curate content on the platform and use the personal information it collects from users to further its business interests , even if those choices conflict with the interests and preferences of Facebook users , " said the press release . <h> Tagged as : <h> De Blasio threatens to close Satmar Headquarters ' once and for all ' <p> New York Mayor Bill De Blasio threatened Tuesday that he may close the Satmar Hasidic sect 's flagship synagogue in Brooklyn " once and for all , " after the group flouted measures intended to minimize the spread of the coronavirus by hosting a large funeral . <p> On Monday , hundreds showed up , largely without masks , to the funeral of Rabbi Yisroel Chaim Menashe , a respected judge on the Satmar 's rabbinic court . <p> The funeral was organized by Congregation Yetev Lev D'Satmar , the sect 's most prominent synagogue in Brooklyn 's Williamsburg @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which an inappropriate event is happening in that same building , then we 're going to have to move to shut down the building once and for all , " the mayor warned . " That would be the next step if we see non-compliance . " <p> It was not the synagogue 's first clash with De Blasio over large events . In October , the synagogue agreed to cancel a wedding celebration for the grandson of Williamsburg 's Satmar Rebbe Zalman Teitelbaum , which was expected to draw thousands of guests . But it secretly held another massive wedding only a few weeks later . <p> The funeral and the mayor 's statements are only the most recent chapters in a monthslong struggle between New York 's Ultra-Orthodox communities and Mayor De Blasio and Gov . Cuomo 's administration . De Blasio has in the past attempted to shutter New York yeshivas flouting coronavirus regulations , but his efforts have had little effect on the Ultra-Orthodox community , which responded to the mayor and governor 's coronavirus restrictions with a wave of protests in September . <h> @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , rejects BDS and backs US defense assistance <p> WASHINGTON ( JTA ) -- The Rev. Raphael Warnock , a Democrat running for Senate in Georgia , said Tuesday that he had an " increasing recognition " of the danger that Hamas poses to Israel since his harsh criticisms of Israel in a 2018 sermon at his church . <p> Warnock also said he opposed the boycott Israel movement . <p> " There has been some comment about a sermon I gave in May of 2018 , " Warnock said in a call organized by the Jewish Democratic Council of America . <p> He was referring to attacks by his opponent , incumbent Republican Kelly Loeffler , who has cited Warnock 's sermon delivered after Israeli troops opened fire on protesters at the border between Israel and the Gaza Strip . <p> " We saw the government of Israel shoot down unarmed Palestinian sisters and brothers like birds of prey , " he said at the time . <p> " As you might imagine , I 'm a pastor , " Warnock said on the JDCA call . " I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And I think that , as I recall that sermon , I was speaking to the issue of activists and human rights , and the ability of people to be heard . At the same time , I have an increasing recognition of Hamas and the danger that they pose to the Israeli people . " <p> By the time of the incident Warnock cited , Hamas was playing an increasing role in organizing the demonstrations , and some protesters were violent . <p> Warnock also unequivocally condemned the Boycott , Divestment and Sanctions movement targeting Israel , and said he supported U.S. defense assistance to Israel and the two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . In condemning BDS , he noted Israeli solar panel companies operating in Georgia , and their contributions to the Georgia economy . <p> The JDCA call also included Jon Ossoff , who is running in the Jan. 5 runoff election against the other Republican incumbent , David Perdue . Should Warnock and Ossoff win , the Democrats would gain control of the Senate . <p> Throughout much of the call , the two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Georgia beyond its heyday of the 1960s . <p> " You 've got Jon , an awesome young Jewish man , and an African-American pastor running together with shared values , shared commitment , " he said . <p> Warnock is the pastor at Ebenezer Baptist Church , where the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr . preached until his 1968 assassination . <p> A lawsuit brought by a Canadian ex-Hasidic couple who testified in court that they suffered years of underemployment after receiving a substandard secular education in suburban Montreal Hasidic schools has been tossed out , according to a report in the National Post . <p> On Thursday , Quebec Superior Court Justice Martin Castonguay rejected the lawsuit , which Yohanan Lowen and his wife Shifra Lowen filed in 2015 , and which sought to force Quebec province to better enforce educational standards in private schools . ( Shifra Lowen has written for the Forverts . ) <p> In his ruling , Castonguay wrote that while he had " profound sympathy " for the couple , he found that the issues in the case had been addressed in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In support of his decision , Castonguay cited laws enacted in 2017 that gave the government more tools to inspect schools that do not provide an adequate secular education and intervene when a child 's education is found to be being neglected . He also wrote that a new program allowing Hasidic parents to register their children as homeschoolers with local school boards , ensuring that they receive additional secular education , had been successful . The National Post did not explain how Justice Castonguay measured the program 's efficacy . <p> The Lowens originally filed their lawsuit against the government of Quebec five years after leaving their Hasidic community in 2010 . Their home community , the Tash Hasidim , is headquartered in Boisbriand , a suburb of Montreal . Among Hasidic Jews , it is known as one of the most insular and conservative communities in North America . <p> In February , Shifra Lowen testified in the Quebec Superior Court that when her husband graduated from yeshiva at age 18 , he could not read English or French . The couple blamed Quebec authorities for failing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ While the Lowens stated that they have struggled financially due to a lack of adequate secular education , their case did not seek monetary damages . Instead , they aimed to have the court impose a declaratory judgment ensuring that the province enforces stricter educational standards in private schools . <p> At the February trial , Quebec child welfare officer Marie-Jos ? e Bernier testified that many Hasidic children suffer from " educational neglect , " noting that they are unable to speak French and have only a rudimentary command of English . <p> A 2014 investigation by Quebec 's youth protection services determined that 280 out of 320 boys in the Hasidic education system who were examined were " developmentally compromised , " with some unable to read a menu or count change . <p> It is unclear if the Lowens plan to appeal the ruling . Their case echoes longstanding efforts by graduates of Hasidic schools in New York to see the state provide more oversight of secular education in private religious schools . 
@@86391616 <p> Last week , the PA announced that it has decided to resume its ties with Israel six months after PA President Mahmoud Abbas declared that the Palestinians would no longer abide by agreements and understandings signed with Israel and the US , including security coordination . <p> The announcement , made by Hussein al-Sheikh , head of the Palestinian General Authority for Civil Affairs , came as leaders of Fatah and Hamas were holding a meeting in Egypt to discuss ways of ending their rivalry and holding long-overdue elections for the PA presidency and parliament . <p> Abbas 's decision last May to sever relations with Israel and halt security coordination between the PA security forces and the IDF saw Fatah and Hamas renew their efforts to achieve " national unity " and end their conflict , which reached its peak in 2007 , when Hamas violently seized control of the Gaza Strip . <p> In July , Fatah and Hamas announced that they had agreed to work together to topple Israeli and US " plots " against the Palestinians . The announcement was followed by a series of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Qatar and Egypt . <p> At one point , it seemed as if Fatah and Hamas were close to striking a deal that would end the split between the West Bank and Gaza Strip and pave the way for holding new elections and forming a Palestinian unity government . <p> The PA 's decision to renew its relations with Israel , however , caught Hamas leaders by surprise . The decision is also seen by some Palestinians as a severe blow to Jibril Rajoub , secretary-general of the Fatah Central Committee , who was entrusted by Abbas with the mission of ending the Fatah-Hamas rift . <p> Musa Abu Marzouk , member of the Hamas " political bureau , " said on Tuesday that the PA 's decision to resume security coordination with Israel " foiled " efforts to achieve " national unity " and " reconciliation " between the rival parties . <p> Hamas is strongly opposed to security coordination with Israel and considers it a form of " collaboration with the Zionist enemy . " <p> Hamas spokesman Abdel Latif Qanou also blamed the renewed security coordination for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his movement and Fatah . <p> " At a time when Hamas was seeking political partnership and a unified national strategy with Fatah , others in the Mukata presidential compound were searching for ways to resume security coordination at the expense of the interests of our people , " Qanou said . <p> Husam Badran , another senior Hamas official in the Gaza Strip , said that the PA 's decision to resume security coordination with Israel was a " severe blow to efforts to achieve reconciliation and national unity . " <p> Badran and other Hamas officials accused the PA leadership and Abbas of preferring relations with Israel over ending the dispute with Hamas . <p> Fatah officials , for their part , dismissed the Hamas allegations and claimed that the reconciliation efforts failed before the decision was taken to resume security coordination with Israel . <p> Rawhi Fattouh , a member of the Fatah Central Committee who participated in the discussions with Hamas in the past few months , accused Hamas of " backtracking " on previous understandings reached with Fatah to hold presidential and parliamentary elections . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ separate elections for the PA presidency , parliament and the PLO . Later , he said , Hamas changed its mind and demanded that the elections for the three bodies be held simultaneously . <p> The Hamas leadership in the Gaza Strip was responsible for the collapse of the reconciliation talks with Fatah , Fattouh charged . <p> Munir al-Jaghoub , another senior Fatah official , said that it was clear to all that the differences between the Hamas leaders in the Gaza Strip and those living abroad were behind the failure of the talks . He said that the differences among the Hamas leaders make it hard for them to take a unified position that serves the interests of the Palestinians and ends Hamas 's control of the Gaza Strip . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@86400117 <p> Morocco Agrees To Join Trump Administration 's Abraham AccordsPresident Trump says Morocco has agreed to be the latest Arab country to normalize relations with Israel . However , the deal includes a U.S. endorsement of Morocco 's claim to a disputed territory . <h> Morocco Agrees To Join Trump Administration 's Abraham Accords <p> President Trump says Morocco has agreed to be the latest Arab country to normalize relations with Israel . However , the deal includes a U.S. endorsement of Morocco 's claim to a disputed territory . <p> AILSA CHANG , HOST : <p> Another Arab country has decided to join the Trump administration 's Abraham Accords . Under the deal , Morocco will normalize ties with Israel . In return , the U.S. is backing Morocco 's bid for sovereignty over a disputed territory . NPR 's Michele Kelemen reports . <p> MICHELE KELEMEN , BYLINE : Israel and Morocco have already had informal ties for years . But now , in a tweet , President Trump says they 've agreed to full diplomatic relations . His son-in-law and adviser Jared Kushner expects things to move @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ JARED KUSHNER : They will grant overflights and direct flights to and from Israel for all Israelis . They 'll reopen the liaison offices in Rabat and Tel Aviv immediately with the intention to open the embassies , you know , in the near future . <p> KELEMEN : For its part , the U.S. is changing its policy toward Western Sahara , a former Spanish colony . In the past , the U.S. has worked with the United Nations to promote talks between Morocco and the Polisario Front , which seeks independence for Western Sahara . Kushner says the U.S. now recognizes Morocco 's sovereignty over the disputed region . <p> ( SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING ) <p> KUSHNER : This is something that 's been talked about for a long time but something that seemed inevitable at this point . <p> KELEMEN : A statement from the Polisario Front questioned whether the move by the U.S. violates international law and said Morocco is , quote , " selling its soul to maintain its illegal occupation . " Trump 's move also took the U.N . by surprise . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : We 've just learned of this through a Twitter post . <p> KELEMEN : U.N . spokesman Stephane Dujarric says the secretary-general is still convinced that it 's possible to reach a negotiated solution based on U.N . resolutions . One former U.N . and U.S. diplomat , Jeffrey Feltman , says the U.S. was already leaning toward Morocco 's plan to offer some autonomy but not independence for the people of Western Sahara . <p> JEFFREY FELTMAN : While previous administrations have never come out fully in support of Morocco , there 's been kind of a wink , wink , nudge , nudge . The Moroccan economy plan looks pretty good as a basis for how you would negotiate a permanent settlement . <p> KELEMEN : But he fears that President Trump 's move will short-circuit diplomacy , leaving the Sahrawi people weaker , as he 's done with others . <p> FELTMAN : He has n't shown much empathy for weaker parties , whether we 're talking about the Kurds in Syria or the Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza or now the Sahrawis . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as more Arab countries agree to normalize ties with Israel before Palestinians get statehood . <p> NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by Verb8tm , Inc. , an NPR contractor , and produced using a proprietary transcription process developed with NPR . This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future . Accuracy and availability may vary . The authoritative record of NPR 's programming is the audio record . 
@@32413710 <p> The body was rewarded for " its contribution to bettering conditions for peace in conflict-affected areas and for acting as a driving force in efforts to prevent the use of hunger as a weapon of war and conflict , " said Berit Reiss-Andersen , the chair of the Nobel Committee . <p> In 2019 , the Rome-based organization provided assistance to close to 100 million people in 88 countries who are victims of acute food insecurity and hunger . It is the U.N . ' s largest specialized agency and the world 's biggest humanitarian group addressing hunger and promoting food security . <p> " In the face of the pandemic , the World Food Program has demonstrated an impressive ability to intensify its efforts , " Reiss-Andersen added . <p> " This is in recognition of the work of WFP staff who put their lives on the line every day to bring food and assistance to more than 100 million hungry children , women and men across the world , " it said . <p> U.N . Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said he was " delighted " by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that the award highlighted the plight of millions " on the precipice of famine , " made worse by threats from the coronavirus and climate change . <p> " There is also a hunger in our world for international cooperation , " he added , welcoming the recognition of humanitarian bodies that operate " above the realm of politics . " <p> The United Nations , which marks its 75th anniversary in 2020 , is no stranger to the Peace Prize . <p> The global body last won the award in 2001 along with then Secretary-General Kofi Annan " for their work for a better organized and more peaceful world . " U.N . Peacekeeping Forces won in 1998 and the U.N . ' s refugee agency ( UNHCR ) won in 1981 and children 's fund ( UNICEF ) in 1965 . <p> Organizations such as the International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons have also won the award in the past . <p> Last year , Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed Ali claimed the prize for his work to promote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country and for signing a major peace deal with neighbor Eritrea after decades of fighting . <p> Humanitarian aid from the World Food Program to the Gaza Strip is unloaded at the Israeli side of the Rafah border crossing.Yoav Lemmer / AFP via Getty Images file <p> Former President Barack Obama in 2009 for his efforts to strengthen international diplomacy , Jimmy Carter in 2002 for finding peaceful solutions to international conflicts after he left office . While Theodore Roosevelt scooped the award in 1906 and Woodrow Wilson in 1919 after World War I. <p> Along with enormous prestige and immediate global attention , the prize comes with a 10-milion krona ( $1.1 million ) cash award and a gold medal to be handed out at a scaled-down ceremony in Oslo , on Dec. 10 , the anniversary of Swedish industrialist Alfred Nobel 's death . 
@@86403201 <p> President Donald Trump won another diplomatic victory for Israel and the U.S. this week , announcing another normalization deal this time signed by Morocco . <p> The North African nation becomes the fourth nation in recent months to normalize ties with Israel , joining the United Arab Emirates , Bahrain and Sudan as recent additions to the list . <p> All were handed something to sweeten the deal , and in Morocco 's case Trump recognized Rabat 's claim over the disputed Western Sahara region . Reports also suggested the U.S. may have tied approval for the sale of advanced military drones to the country to the Israel deal . <p> The Trump administration 's campaign for normalized ties with Israel is one of its landmark foreign policy agreements . With several weeks until he leaves office , Trump may yet add to his tally and secure more deals for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . There are now 29 United Nations member states that do not have full diplomatic relations with Israel . <p> Historically , many Arab nations have refused to recognize Israel or establish diplomatic ties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and protested its seizure of **26;378;TOOLONG Palestinian , Egyptian , Lebanese , Jordanian and Syrian land in the various failed wars regional nations and militias have launched to try and smother the young state . Some of this land has been returned , but other portions have not . <p> These Middle Eastern states have subsequently refused to establish full ties with Israel , citing its continued occupation of seized territory and its treatment of the Palestinians , who remain under de facto Israeli control in the Fatah-controlled West Bank and under a tight Israeli-Egyptian blockade in the Hamas-controlled Gaza Strip , from which various militant groups launch attacks into Israeli territory . <p> This is , however , beginning to change . Israel has long maintained secret diplomatic ties and security cooperation with regional nations , which are increasingly comfortable formalizing the arrangement . <p> The Palestinian issue has proved intractable , and with the two-state solution almost defunct some regional rulers are turning their minds to the benefits of closer ties with Israel and the U.S. Economic , military , diplomatic -- engagement offers various gains , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see as an existential threat . <p> Still , those Middle Eastern nations that fully recognize Israel remain in the minority . Iran , Iraq , Kuwait , Lebanon , Oman , Qatar , Saudi Arabia , Syria , and Yemen all still do not have official diplomatic ties with Israel . All but Oman also do not recognize Israel as a state . <p> There have been suggestions that Lebanon , Oman , Qatar and Saudi Arabia could all be in line for normalization deals , but so far they have not come to fruition . <p> Several other Muslim-majority states in Africa and Asia have also refused full diplomatic ties with Israel . Algeria , Comoros , Djibouti , Libya , Mali , Mauritania , Niger , Somalia , and Tunisia are among those in Africa . Of these , Libya , Somalia and Algeria do not even recognize Israel as a country . <p> In Asia , major Muslim nations including Indonesia , Pakistan , and Bangladesh do not have full ties with Israel . Neither do Afghanistan , Bhutan , the Maldives , Brunei , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recognize Israel as a state . <p> Other nations refuse full ties with Israel on primarily ideological -- rather than religious -- grounds . Left-wing revolutionary regimes consider Israel an imperialist occupier of Arab land and a puppet of the U.S. Cuba , Venezuela and North Korea all refuse full ties with Israel on this basis . North Korea also does not recognize Israel as a state . 
@@32422807 <h> Letters to the Editor December 14 , 2020 : The beauty of Bhutan <h> Readers of The Jerusalem Post have their say <p> On the heels of Israel 's new ties with the UAE , Bahrain , Sudan and most recently Morocco , Israel is now one of a relatively few nations to be honored to have diplomatic ties with Bhutan ( " Israel established full relations with Bhutan , " December 13 . ) <p> The nation of Bhutan is something of a mystery to most people , but in embracing its decision to normalize ties with Israel , we look forward to welcoming visitors from that south Asian country and hope to be able to visit them in return . <p> The connection between our two countries is mutually beneficial . Tourists from that beautiful landlocked Bhutan can enjoy Israel 's fabulous Mediterranean beaches and Israelis can hopefully learn something from Bhutan 's political culture , as Bhutan has been ranked as the least corrupt country in its region . <p> Two additional interesting facts : 1 ) Environmentally conscious Bhutan is considered the only carbon-negative country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the minority of countries that did not support the 2018 United Nations resolution against the decision of the USA to establish an embassy in Jerusalem . <p> I was intrigued to read about efforts to establish an Anglo party ( " Does Anglo Vision have the vision to succeed ? " November 26 ) , as well as the bombshell news that Likud veteran Gideon Sa'ar is abandoning the Likud to create the New Hope Party . <p> I wish Sa'ar the best , but perhaps a review of the party 's name is in order . It sounds clich ? d in the extreme ; one of the Star War films is entitled A New Hope . <p> May I suggest a subtle name change to the Bob Hope party ? This would capture the essence of the original name while attracting the Anglo vote that is itching to have its voice heard in the political arena . <p> Hey , who does n't love Bob Hope ? <p> KENNY FISHERJerusalem <p> To borrow from a Yiddish expression , the Israeli public currently needs another new political party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " ( I need it like a hole in the head ) . <p> When will our politicians realize that actions speak louder than words and in the case of political parties , less is likely to mean more ? <p> STEPHEN VISHNICKTel Aviv <p> Sickplomacy : Seeing red <p> Regarding " UAE 's status as ' red country ' held up for diplomatic reasons " ( December 10 ) , if tens of thousands of Israelis are presently traveling in -- or planning to travel soon to -- the UAE and in fact the UAE is " red " and not " green , " although designated " green " for political purposes , and said travelers need not quarantine themselves on their return , how many returnees infected with corona will then mingle with the general Israeli public and pass this special travel souvenir on to them ? <p> Are n't we supposed to revere the sanctity of life ? The Foreign Ministry , which requested the change in status from red to green , will have blood on their hands , if this request is granted . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for our leaders ? This is truly outrageous . <p> Jordan had control of this area when it invaded Israel in 1967 . Only after Israel liberated Judea and Samaria while successfully defending itself from attack did Jordan decide that the Palestinian Arabs had " national " rights ? Suddenly they want the Palestinians -- the same ones who were there under Jordanian control before 1967 -- to have their " just " and " legitimate " rights ? <p> The only reason our region continues to suffer conflict and instability is the fact that the " refugees " and their progeny were never rehabilitated and continue to deny the right of the Jewish people to have a state of their own . <p> Now , in the backward , clearly undemocratic country of my birth , Canada , the Supreme Court involves itself with ruling on matters of law after cases have made their way through the various courts . It also rules and advises on the constitutionality of laws passed or proposed . As far as I know , it does not rule on government bureaucratic regulations , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our government , for whatever reason , valid or not , chooses not to appoint a permanent police chief , have they broken the law or not ? I have not seen where our Supreme Court has ruled on this , just that the appointment should be done . <p> If the law has been broken , there is no such thing as the government not obeying the Court as soon as possible . But if no law has been broken , by what right/law has our Supreme Court the jurisdiction to comment , let alone intervene , in a matter that is not in their purview ? <p> Of course , if our Supreme Court has the supreme right to intervene in any matter whatsoever and then to issue directives , then is it obvious we can dispense with elections , as we already have 15 wise humans to lead us . <p> YISRAEL GUTTMANJerusalem <p> Rushin ' to conclusions ? <p> Regarding " Russian envoy : Israel-Arab issues , not Iran , is main problem in Mideast " ( December 9 ) , wow -- I never realized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few million more is but a " minor problem . " Who knew that Turkey interfering with Greece , Cyprus , Syria , Ethiopia , Sudan and other nations in the area is also a minor problem ? Russian intervention in Syria and Armenia and the Crimea is obviously just a minor problem too , as is Iran developing nuclear weapon capabilities with its past record of supporting Hezbollah and vowing to wipe Israel off the globe . <p> It turns out that the one and only major problem in the Middle East according to Russian Ambassador Anatoly Victorov is the ongoing conflict between the Arabs and Israel -- which in numerical terms has had less than 1% of the casualties of any of those " minor " problems . <p> The true reason why Russia wants to promulgate such blatant falsehoods most probably will be shortly revealed and is n't likely to favor Israel . <p> FRANK BERGERJerusalem <p> Let me avail of this opportunity to make clarifications regarding my interview , which was published on December 9 . I would like to emphasize that my words presented in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interview . The rest of the text , including remarks or personal conclusions regarding regional agenda like " Israel destabilizes the Middle East more than Iran " and others were never mentioned during the meeting with the journalist . <p> Russian-Israeli constructive dialogue is founded on a solid base of partnership in various spheres . The Russian Federation will continue to further develop and expand bilateral ties with Israeli counterparts in order to achieve lasting peace and stability in the Middle East for the benefit of the peoples of the region . <p> Along with the courage and moral clarity Sharansky displayed throughout his nine-year captivity in the gulag , he also maintained a fine sense of humor and a keen awareness of the absurdity of the Soviet tyranny and of those who administered it . <p> With these personal qualities , Sharansky could engage in pranks , such as duping his camp commander to light candles with him on the eighth night of Hanukkah ( despite the fact that his hanukkiah had been confiscated earlier ) , as detailed by Troy in his priceless account . <p> BRUCE WARSHAVSKYModi'in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since Troy was a co-author of a book by Sharansky and in a sense a book " bed-fellow . " <p> Regrettably , life is not always black and white . Rather , it is a mixture that distorts and colors the picture . <p> In this context , in terms of Troy and Sharansky , there is an Achilles heel -- the issue of Jonathan Pollard . Troy 's previous article disparages the welcoming to Israel of Pollard , an Israeli patriot who was concerned with the security and welfare of the State of Israel . As such , Troy 's article is most disappointing . <p> In terms of Sharansky and his abandonment of Pollard throughout Pollard 's many years of hardship , Troy and Sharansky remained silent as a Sphinx , happily standing by and doing nothing to alleviate the injustice of the case . <p> In this regard , Troy and Sharansky do not bring honor to the holiday of Hanukkah . They are not in " Center Field " but rather in " Left Field . " I. GENDELMANJerusalem <p> Shul shell <p> In " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 10 ) , Itzhak Levanon passionately pleas for restoration of Beirut 's landmark synagogue , which was damaged in the August port blast . Levanon says that we in Israel should take action to protect and preserve the building as the only remaining vestige of a vibrant and Zionist community . <p> On the contrary , the building should be left as a monument to the destruction of not only the robust Jewish community but to Lebanon itself -- once a modern , progressive , successful , multi-faceted country taken over by Islamic extremists whose objective in life is mayhem and suffering inflicted on as many as possible in Lebanon and its surrounds . <p> YIGAL HOROWITZBeersheba <p> Gaza grievances <p> Regarding " EU promises COVID-19 vaccines , clean water for Gaza " ( December 9 ) , I suppose it is a step forward that EU Representative Sven Kuhn von Burgsdorf admits that Hamas and the PA have some responsibility for the situation of the people in Gaza . Yet , the EU offers no new ideas . It will supply the authorities with vaccines and funds and hope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the people . <p> Burgsdorf tells us that Gaza must be part of an independent , contiguous and democratic state . He neglects to mention that this state must agree to co-exist , peacefully , with the nation-state of the Jews . Nor does he even dare to suggest that the leaders should agree that non-Muslims who choose to live within the borders of the new state will have full civil rights , just as non-Jews have full civil rights in Israel . <p> Burgsdorf recommends increasing UNRWA 's funding to alleviate the " suffering " of the many Palestine " refugees " in Gaza . Although few of the 700,000 or so who Arabs fled Palestine in the 1940s are still alive , UNRWA today has nearly 6,000,000 refugees on its rolls . Arab leaders insist that Israel must give the refugees homes they claim their parents/ grandparents/ great-grandparents lost when Israel was reborn . The leaders have fed the refugees a constant diet of anti-Jewish invective , while highly honoring and richly rewarding people who answer the call to violently resist the " occupation . " <p> Reality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " refugees " in . The solution to the problem is for the Palestinian leaders and leaders of other Arab countries to do the right thing . In the first three decades following its rebirth , Israel absorbed 800,000 Mizrachi Jewish refugees expelled from their homes in the Muslim countries of the Middle East and North Africa . UNRWA should be shut down and the Palestine refugees offered the choice of participating in the building of the first-ever-to-exist Arab State in the West Bank and Gaza , or accepting citizenship in another Arab country . <p> TOBY F. BLOCKAtlanta , GA <p> ' Til we meat again <p> I read with interest , " Change Israel 's kashrut supervision policy " ( December 9 ) , which discussed several scandals related to kosher supervision in the Haifa area , including supervisors " failing to show up at places they are assigned to supervise . " <p> Coincidentally , in the same issue , Rabbi Raymond Apple 's article , " No chicken for Shabbat ? " mentioned that Jews need not eat meat on Shabbat , or any other day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practicable , enjoyable and filling . " <p> Many plant-based meat substitutes today have texture and taste so similar to meat from animals that even long-time meat eaters ca n't tell the difference between the plant-based version and the animal-based one . <p> Therefore , as president emeritus of Jewish Veg and author most recently of the book Vegan Revolution : Saving Our World , Revitalizing Judaism , I wonder , respectfully , why Jews continue to eat meat , when animal-based diets and agriculture contribute substantially to an epidemic of life-threatening diseases , climate change and other environmental threats to humanity -- the wasteful use of land , energy , water and other resources , and the massive mistreatment of animals , thereby violating basic Jewish teachings on health , environmental sustainability , conservation , and compassion.RICHARD H. SCHWARTZ , PH.D.Professor Emeritus , College of Staten Island <p> While The Jerusalem Post ran an article on Human Rights Day in 2019 , it is pity that Human Rights Day this year ( December 10 ) passed unnoticed . <p> 2020 has been exceptional in myriad ways . The coronavirus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaving behind death , desolation and despair , vividly illustrating the mighty power of Mother Nature , the indivisibility of humanity and the soaring greed of multinational corporations spoiling nature to make the way for development projects . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@32433300 <h> Latest Stories <p> More than a decade into a life sentence for assisting in the sale of $20 worth of marijuana to an undercover cop in Louisiana , Fate Winslow is set to be released on Wednesday . " Today redemption has come , " he told Yahoo News in an email . <p> Gaza has recorded just over 29,000 COVID-19 cases since the pandemic began , but it is now averaging about 1,000 new cases a day , driving that total figure up rapidly . While many countries have been hit hard by COVID-19 , Gaza 's problems are made worse by blockade , which has devastated the economy . <p> It 's no secret that there are n't enough Pfizer vaccine doses for every American who wants one . But there are at least a few million more sitting in a warehouse , waiting for the government to decide where they 're headed , Pfizer said.After receiving emergency use authorization from the Food and Drug Administration last week , Pfizer said Thursday that it has since shipped out the 2.9 million vaccine doses the U.S. government told @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more doses sitting in warehouses awaiting instructions for where to ship " Bloomberg reports . Pfizer also denied it was the cause of shipping delays some states complained about , saying it 's the federal government causing the holdup.The vast majority of Americans have said they 'll get the coronavirus vaccine , with many ready to take it as soon as possible . So far , there are only enough doses available to start vaccinating people in nursing homes and frontline health care workers , whom the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention agreed to prioritize.The U.S. bought 100 million doses of the Pfizer vaccine over the summer . But the Trump administration reportedly turned down Pfizer 's offer to sell the U.S. more doses a few months later , meaning Pfizer may not be able to get another shipment to Americans until summer 2021 . The U.S. did buy another another 100 million Moderna vaccine doses last week.More stories from theweek.com Trump has reportedly been convinced he actually won , tells advisers he may not vacate the White House 5 insanely funny cartoons about Trump 's election-fraud failure FDA @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what one former White House official called the " presidential man cave " of the Oval Office , President Donald Trump does not want to talk about what lies ahead once he leaves office next month . Several people familiar with the situation say he knows his time is up even as he presses the fight against the election outcome , despite having failed in a series of court challenges to overturn the results of the Nov. 3 election that made Democrat Joe Biden president-elect . With Monday 's Electoral College vote certifying Biden 's win , White House staff members are looking for jobs and planning their post-administration futures . <p> China has begun producing biodegradable plastic at such a rate that it can no longer break down the material at the same pace , according to a new report from Greenpeace . According to the report , companies in China have ramped up production of biodegradable plastic to a capacity of 4.4 million tonnes per year . That capacity is expected to reach five million tonnes in the e-commerce sector alone by 2025 , when a nationwide ban @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Switching from one type of plastic to another can not solve the plastics pollution crisis that we 're facing , " said Dr Molly Zhongnan Jia , a Greenpeace East Asia plastics researcher . " We need to take a cautious look at the effect and potential risks of mainstreaming these materials , and make sure we invest in solutions that actually reduce plastic waste . " Non-biodegradable plastics take decades to decompose and release microplastics , which contaminates soil , water and the food chain . <p> In newly declassified messages , ex-FBI agent Peter Strzok , who oversaw the bureau 's investigation into the Trump campaign 's potential ties to Russia , touted the Steele dossier 's ability to " influence " media.Senate Republicans on Thursday released a number of internal FBI messages from Strzok that provide insight into Crossfire Hurricane , the investigation into the Trump campaign . The Justice Department declassified the records on December 1 after Senators Ron Johnson ( R. , Wisc. ) and Chuck Grassley ( R. , Iowa ) asked Attorney General William Barr and FBI Director Christopher Wray to declassify @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Crossfire Hurricane.Strzok 's messages suggest that he was aware that former British spy Christopher Steele , whose dossier was used by the FBI to obtain surveillance warrants against Carter Page , was a source for a Yahoo ! News story alleging that Page had a secret meeting in Moscow with two Kremlin insiders . " Looking at the Yahoo article , I would definitely say at a minimum Steele 's reports should be viewed as intended to influence as well as to inform , " Strzok , who was fired from the FBI in August 2018 , wrote on Sept. 23 , 2016 . It was later uncovered that Steele was a source for the article and he had met with a number of journalists in Washington , D.C. as part of an opposition research campaign commissioned by the DNC and Clinton campaign.Though Strzok expressed his suspicion that Steele was the source for the article , the Bureau continued working with the ex-spy and did not disclose Steele 's contact with journalists to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court ( FISC ) . The FBI later ended its relationship with Steele @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on October 31 , 2016 . A number of the allegations included in the dossier have since been discredited and a December 2019 report by the Justice Department inspector general criticized the FBI 's Crossfire Hurricane team for failing to communicate key details about Steele and the dossier to the FISC . <p> The Northeast 's first whopper snowstorm of the season buried parts of upstate New York under more than 3 feet of snow , broke records in Massachusetts and Pennsylvania and left snowplow drivers struggling to clear the roads . " It was a very difficult , fast storm and it dropped an unbelievable amount of snow , " Tom Coppola , highway superintendent in charge of maintaining 100 miles of roads in the Albany suburb of Glenville , said Thursday morning . The storm dropped 30 inches on Glenville between 1 a.m. and 6 a.m . Thursday , leaving a a silent scene of snow-clad trees , buried cars and heavily laden roofs when the sun peeked through at noon . <p> President Trump was privately coming to terms with his loss to President-elect Joe Biden , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ -- not only spreading misinformation about the election , but ingesting it himself , " CNN reports , " egged on by advisers like Rudy Giuliani and Jenna Ellis who are misleading Trump about the extent of voting irregularities and the prospects of a reversal . " One adviser told CNN , " He 's been fed so much misinformation that I think he actually thinks this thing was stolen from him . " Even the Electoral College formalizing Biden 's win " did not appear enough to shake Trump from his delusions of victory , " CNN says , " but it is adding urgency to a push by several of his advisers to gently steer Trump toward reality . " Discussions of Trump 's post-presidency future tend to go nowhere because Trump " all but shuts down , " CNN reports . " In his moments of deepest denial , Trump has told some advisers that he will refuse to leave the White House on Inauguration Day , only to be walked down from that ledge . The possibility has alarmed some aides , but few believe Trump @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clear about this , Trump 100 percent will leave the White House on Inauguration Day , if not well before , " Jonathan Chait writes at New York . " Even the scholars who expressed the deepest fears of Trump 's intentions to undermine the system did not put credence in the possibility he could defy the outcome by simply refusing to leave . Squatting is not one of the tools in his authoritarian tool kit . " But the fact that Trump thinks that 's even a viable option suggests he 's " engaged in more than a scheme to grift his supporters , " Chait says . He 's " drinking his own poisoned Kool-Aid . " If Trump does have to be forcibly removed from the White House , you can credit Bill Maher with the prediction . More stories from theweek.com 5 insanely funny cartoons about Trump 's election-fraud failure FDA panel greenlights Moderna 's COVID-19 vaccine Pfizer says ' millions ' of vaccine doses are waiting to be shipped -- but the government has n't told them where to go <p> Both Republican U.S. Senate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the January runoff election races , which will determine which party controls the chamber for at least the next two years , according to new polling out of Emerson College.The poll , released Wednesday , found Republicans Kelly Loeffler and David Perdue with nearly identical advantages , with each receiving support from 51 percent of respondents , compared to 48 percent for Democrats Raphael Warnock and Jon Ossoff . The races are essentially tied , because the advantages in both races fall within the poll 's 3.9 percent margin of error.The Democrats need to win both races to win control of the Senate . If both Warnock and Ossoff win , there would be a 50-50 split , with Vice President-elect Kamala Harris serving as the tie-breaker.The poll found little crossover support , meaning few voters will vote for a Republican in one race and a Democrat in the other . " Which suggests one party should win both seats , " Spencer Kimball , Emerson 's polling director , said in a prepared statement.The Democrats held large leads over the Republicans among younger voters and urban voters , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and voters with a high school degree or less . The poll found Loeffler and Perdue with slight leads in the suburbs , with 52 percent support compared to 47 percent for Warnock and Ossoff.Thirty-one percent of poll respondents named the economy as their top issue , followed by COVID-19 response ( 24 percent ) , healthcare ( 15 percent ) and social justice ( 12 percent ) . Another poll released earlier this week showed Loeffler and Perdue both holding slight 49 percent to 48 percent advantages over the Democrats.The recent polling shows support for the Republicans climbing . In early December , a poll by SurveyUSA found Warnock with a 52 percent to 45 percent lead over Loeffler , and Ossoff with a narrower 50 percent to 48 percent advantage . <p> President Trump has reportedly considered firing the director of the FBI again , but White House lawyers have tried their best to talk him out of it.Trump , NBC News reported on Wednesday , " has come so close to firing " FBI Director Christopher Wray that the White House counsel 's office " warned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in potential legal jeopardy . " The White House lawyers , according to the report , " strongly " advised Trump not to fire Wray , saying that it would " risk creating the perception that a ' loyalty test ' was being imposed " on the position or that Trump was firing him out of " retaliation " for not taking investigative actions he wanted . Trump previously controversially fired former FBI Director James Comey in 2017 amid the Russia probe . In October , The Washington Post reported that Trump was considering firing Wray as he expressed " disappointment " in both Wray and Attorney General William Barr that they did n't " indicate that Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden , his son Hunter Biden or other Biden associates are under investigation " before the 2020 election . Hunter Biden revealed last week he 's under federal investigation for his " tax affairs , " and according to CNN , this investigation began " as early as 2018 . " Though Wray remains as head of the FBI , Trump earlier this week announced that Barr will resign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reports that Trump 's " advisers hope he 's been persuaded against ousting Wray . " More stories from theweek.com Trump has reportedly been convinced he actually won , tells advisers he may not vacate the White House 5 insanely funny cartoons about Trump 's election-fraud failure Pfizer says ' millions ' of vaccine doses are waiting to be shipped -- but the government has n't told them where to go <p> Mexican President Andr ? s Manuel L ? pez Obrador on Thursday defended Mexico 's restrictive immigration policy , which has prevented many Central American migrants from crossing Mexico to reach the U.S. border . Mexico has sent National Guard officers and immigration agents to the southern border with Guatemala to prevent migrant caravans from entering Mexico and detain those who do manage to cross . " We have protected migrants , there have been no violations of their human rights , " L ? pez Obrador said . 
@@86429612 <p> A court in Israel clarified something Monday with its decision to cite the country 's controversial " nation state " law : Israel has enshrined racism as one of its basic principles . <p> The court all but said the city could n't risk attracting more Arab residents -- a decision that it used the " nation state " law to justify . <p> The lawsuit asked the northern Israeli city of Carmiel to reimburse Arab parents for the costs of driving their kids to school each day , because Arabic-language schooling is n't available inside the city limits . In its dismissal of the case , the court all but said the city could n't risk attracting more Arab residents -- a decision that it used the " nation state " law to justify . <p> I normally hate writing about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict -- mostly because it 's a subject that produces a black hole of misunderstandings and prompts people to ignore nuance , especially online . There 's a lot that makes that the case -- but setting aside the anti-Semitism against Israelis , the violence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Gaza and the resulting humanitarian crisis , and everything else that makes this issue so contentious , we should be able to agree on one thing : The court 's decision is racist . <p> It proves that critics of the " nation state " law were right to call the law racist when it was narrowly passed in 2018 . The act is one of what are known as Israel 's " basic laws , " measures that serve as de facto articles in the state 's unfinished constitution . These laws form the underpinning of the government -- most involve the structure of the organs of the state . ( The 1992 Basic Law on Human Dignity and Liberty is special in that its text mandates that its provisions supersede any other law that might violate it . ) <p> Under the terms of the " nation state " law , " the right to exercise national self-determination " in Israel is " unique to the Jewish people " -- meaning only Jews can decide the makeup of the state and society , blocking out the nearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also declares that the " state views Jewish settlement as a national value and will labor to encourage and promote its establishment and development . " <p> The majority of the city 's 500 Arab school-age children are forced to attend school outside the city limits so they can learn in Arabic . <p> For Israelis who want their country to be a multiethnic democracy , a law that specifically bans minorities from taking part in choices that affect the country -- while is also expands into Palestinian territories -- is problematic , to say the least . The basic law also downgraded Arabic from an official language , which it had been since the country 's founding , to a " special status " language , furthering the sense that the law cements Arab Israelis as second-class citizens . <p> Those concerns are now playing out in Carmiel , a town in Galilee that is 94 percent Jewish and 6 percent Arab . It 's a problem that has lurked for years in Israel as Arab families move into Jewish-majority areas , trying to find affordable housing -- circumventing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to improve their lives . Once there , they 've found a lack of services to accommodate them and their children , if not outright discrimination . <p> Substitute the words " white " for " Jewish " and " Black " for " Arab . " This is the same sort of logic that divided America 's cities with redlining , keeping white suburbs free of Black residents and preventing Black upward mobility . <p> In Carmiel , the majority of the city 's 500 Arab school-age children are forced to attend school outside the city limits so they can learn in Arabic . Carmiel 's government is scattershot about its policies here -- it does n't reimburse many of the parents for this hardship , unless forced to in court , and it no longer funds any busing of the students to Arabic-language schools . Dozens of parents petitioned the government in March to apply its reimbursement policy more evenly or provide the needed transportation , but to no avail . <p> A lawsuit filed in November sought to force the city to reimburse the family of two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their travel . The Krayot Magistrates Court dismissed the suit Monday and ordered the plaintiffs to pay legal fees to the defendants , the Israeli newspaper Haaretz reported . The chief registrar , Yaniv Luzon , reportedly wrote in the court 's decision that one reason the suit could n't go forward was that " Carmiel , a Jewish city , was meant to establish Jewish settlement in the Galilee . " It only follows then , he wrote , that establishing an Arabic-language school and paying for rides for Arab students " could change the demographic balance and damage the city 's character . " <p> While he gave seven reasons for dismissing the case , Luzon 's ruling specifically cited the basic law 's settlement provision to argue that a city 's demographic makeup is " an appropriate , dominant " factor when local governments set rules and regulations . <p> Imagine a court saying that in the United States . Substitute the words " white " for " Jewish " and " Black " for " Arab . " This is the same sort of logic that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free of Black residents and preventing Black upward mobility . It 's not a direct comparison , historically speaking -- but in terms of the power dynamic , it 's a valid one . <p> Nareman Shehadeh-Zoabi , a lawyer with the civil rights group Adalah , The Legal Center for Arab Minority Rights , agreed . She told Haaretz that the court 's " ruling states that giving equal rights to the Arab residents of Carmiel will send a message that will invite more Arab residents to live in the city , and through this logic sanctions a racist , discriminatory policy . " <p> " These are precisely the frightening consequences we warned about when we opposed the nation-state law , " she said . <p> It 's up to Israeli politicians to correct this injustice . Unfortunately , it seems like the political will to push back against this racism does n't exist in Israel at the moment . The Kahol Lavan party , part of the governing coalition that seems all but set to collapse , introduced a draft Basic Law on Equal Rights and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explicit declaration that Arab Israelis would have equality under Israeli law would help attract potential voters who are wary of the " nation state " law . But the bill was withdrawn Wednesday for fear that it would n't have the votes to pass , possibly embarrassing party leader Benny Gantz instead of bolstering him . <p> A panel of Israel 's High Court of Justice is scheduled to consider over a dozen petitions against the law this month . It 's not clear whether the court has the authority to overturn basic laws -- the court only relatively recently claimed the right to review -- but it may be able to , in theory , if it finds that the law clashes with the Basic Law on Human Dignity and Liberty . <p> Meanwhile , President-elect Joe Biden and his fellow Democrats have a rough time ahead of them politically if they speak out . Republicans and evangelicals are ready and waiting to pounce the first time the Biden administration criticizes anything Israel does . Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , whose Likud party and its allies championed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ GOP in recent years , as his embrace of President Donald Trump made clear . <p> But this law is wrong , and American politicians and diplomats should be free to say as much without being labeled as anti-Semitic . We here in America need to be able to clearly say that this is the modern equivalent of a " separate but equal " policy -- racist , wrong and untenable for a country that touts itself as the only democracy in the Middle East . <p> Hayes Brown is a writer and editor for MSNBC Daily , where he helps frame the news of the day for readers . He was previously at BuzzFeed News and holds a degree in international relations from Michigan State University . 
@@86430910 <h> Palestinians left waiting as Israel is set to deploy COVID-19 vaccine <p> RAMALLAH , West Bank ( AP ) -- Israel will begin rolling out a major coronavirus vaccination campaign next week after the prime minister reached out personally to the head of a major drug company . Millions of Palestinians living under Israeli control will have to wait much longer . <p> Worldwide , rich nations are snatching up scarce supplies of new vaccines as poor countries largely rely on a World Health Organization program that has yet to get off the ground . There are few places where the competition is playing out in closer proximity than in Israel and the territories it has occupied for more than half a century . <p> Next year could bring a sharp divergence in the trajectory of the pandemic , which until now has blithely ignored the national boundaries and political enmities of the Middle East . Israelis could soon return to normal life and an economic revival , even as the virus continues to menace Palestinian towns and villages just a few miles ( kilometers ) away . <p> @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supply 8 million doses of its newly approved vaccine -- enough to cover nearly half of Israel 's population of 9 million , since each person requires two doses . That came after Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu personally reached out multiple times to Pfizer Chief Executive Albert Bourla , boasting that at one point he was able to reach the CEO at 2 a.m . <p> Israel has mobile vaccination units with refrigerators that can keep the Pfizer shots at the required minus 70 degrees Celsius ( minus 94 Fahrenheit ) . It plans to begin vaccinations as soon as next week , with a capacity of more than 60,000 shots a day . Israel reached a separate agreement with Moderna earlier this month to purchase 6 million doses of its vaccine -- enough for another 3 million Israelis . <p> Israel 's vaccination campaign will include Jewish settlers living deep inside the West Bank , who are Israeli citizens , but not the territory 's 2.5 million Palestinians . <p> They will have to wait for the cash-strapped Palestinian Authority , which administers parts of the occupied West Bank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Israel captured the West Bank , the Gaza Strip and east Jerusalem , territories the Palestinian seek for their future state , in the 1967 Mideast war . <p> The PA hopes to get vaccines through a WHO-led partnership with humanitarian organizations known as COVAX , which aims to provide free vaccines for up to 20 percent of the population of poor countries , many of which have been hit especially hard by the pandemic . <p> But the program has secured only a fraction of the 2 billion doses it hopes to buy over the next year , has yet to confirm any actual deals and is short on cash . Rich countries have already reserved about 9 billion of the estimated 12 billion doses the pharmaceutical industry is expected to produce next year . <p> Complicating matters is the fact that the Palestinians have only one refrigeration unit -- in the oasis town of Jericho -- capable of storing the Pfizer vaccine . They are among nearly 3 billion people worldwide for whom lack of adequate refrigeration capacity could pose a major obstacle . <p> Dr. Ali @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the PA is in talks with Pfizer and Moderna -- whose vaccines require extra-cold storage -- as well as AstraZeneca and the makers of a largely untested Russian vaccine , but has yet to sign any agreements beyond COVAX . <p> The PA hopes to vaccinate 20 percent of the population through COVAX , beginning with health workers , he said . " The remainder will depend on Palestine purchasing from the global supply , and we are working with several companies , " he said . <p> The Palestinian prime minister , Mohammad Shtayyeh , told a news conference on Thursday that " the arrival of sufficient quantities of the vaccine that will enable us to vaccinate the masses will not be earlier than months from today . " <p> Both Israel and the Palestinian Authority have struggled to contain their outbreaks , which have fed off one another as people travel back and forth -- mainly tens of thousands of Palestinian laborers employed in Israel . Israel has reported more than 350,000 cases , including more than 3,000 deaths . <p> The Palestinian Authority has reported more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 800 deaths , and the outbreak has intensified in recent weeks . The situation is even more dire in Gaza , home to 2 million Palestinians , which has been under an Israeli and Egyptian blockade since the Hamas militant group seized power in 2007 . Authorities there have reported over 30,000 cases , including 220 deaths . <p> With Gaza 's Hamas rulers shunned by the international community , the territory will also rely on the Palestinian Authority . That means it could be several months before any large-scale vaccinations are carried out in the impoverished coastal strip . <p> Dr. Gerald Rockenschaub , the head of the WHO office for the Palestinian territories , said the PA will provide vaccines to Gaza , but they will arrive in batches and it will take time to reach the first 20 percent . " We hope that sometime during the first quarter of the next year that the first vaccines will start arriving , " he said . <p> Israel 's Deputy Health Minister Yoav Kisch told Kan Radio that Israel was working to attain a surplus of vaccines for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demands have been met and we have additional capability , we will certainly consider helping the Palestinian Authority . " He said doing so would help prevent a resurgence of outbreaks in Israel proper . <p> Dr. Ashi Shalmon , an Israeli Health Ministry official , said its approach is in line with past agreements . The Oslo accords require the PA to maintain international vaccination standards and for the sides to exchange information and cooperate in combating epidemics . <p> Israel , which intends to start by inoculating health workers and nursing home residents , plans to issue special " passports " to those who have been vaccinated , exempting them from restrictions and paving the way for the revival of travel and commerce . <p> But the pandemic would continue to rage in Palestinian cities like Bethlehem -- where hotels and shops have been empty for months and Christmas celebrations were mostly called off -- even as a sense of normalcy is restored in Israel and in nearby settlements . <p> Still , tens of thousands of Palestinians work in Israel and the settlements . They could potentially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , slowing Israel 's path to herd immunity , the point at which the virus can no longer easily spread . <p> Physicians for Human Rights-Israel , a group that advocates for more equitable health care , says Israel has a legal obligation as an occupying power to purchase and distribute vaccines to the Palestinians . It says Israel must also ensure that vaccines that do n't meet its own safety guidelines -- like the Russian shot -- are not distributed in areas under its control . <p> " Israel still maintains control over many aspects of the Palestinians ' lives , whether checkpoints , importing goods and medication , and controlling the movement of people , " said Ghada Majadle , the director of the group 's activities in the Palestinian territories . <p> " The Palestinian health system , whether in the West Bank or the Gaza Strip , is in dire condition , mainly ( because of ) restrictions imposed by Israel . " 
@@32435002 <h> Reform ! The end is at hand ! <h> Israel needs to stop digging its heels in and instead take steps on the road to peace . <p> There is a well-documented phenomenon in societies as they reach the final stages of a deeply rooted , bloody conflict . I call it " digging in the heels against the current . " During this final phase , some societies show their ugliest face . I am talking about the stronger side , the one required to make truly hard concessions on real assets such as land . Such societies face a growing sense that the world fails to see the justice on their side . Indeed , the world usually supports the side perceived as the " underdog , " even when that side uses terrorism to support its cause . The world sympathizes with its weakness and often discounts its shortcomings . <p> The stronger sides often loses any sense of its own strength and adopts an attitude of weakness . By portraying its weakness internally , it ends up justifying behaviors which it would normally have condemned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation . <p> There are many examples of societies that failed to accept the inevitable and , instead of acting with intelligence and dignity , sacrificed their own humanity in defense of their ' right ' to defy what almost everyone else sees as their wrong . The final two years of South African apartheid were among the most repressive and aggressive of its too-long existence . The final period of British rule in India witnessed atrocities committed by the most civilized army on Earth at the time . The last years in Sudan provide another example of horrendous brutality , misery and death . <p> When Israel resorts to calling pro-Palestinian activists trying to enter the country legally through its international front door " hooligans , " " terrorists , " and " Hamas lovers , " and needs 600 policemen to prevent their entry , something is happening here that needs introspection . <p> When Israeli society feels a deep sense of threat because a few hundred pro-Palestinian sailors aboard a group of 10 barely seaworthy boats try to break the siege of Gaza , then something is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explained away as anti-Semitism or de-legitimization campaigns . <p> There was no real threat from the recent flotilla . Yet the perceived danger was expressed with existential urgency . <p> When Israel feels threatened by Palestinian villagers who organize a march from their village to their spring every Friday for the past two years ( in Nebi Saleh ) , and has to resort to shooting hundreds of teargas grenades at 50 protestors armed only with flags and songs , and the public justifies this state-sponsored violence by calling the villagers terrorists , then we have entered that final stage of the conflict described above . <p> THE LEGISLATIVE agenda of this Knesset , sponsored by this government and promoted by hate and fear mongers , is further evidence that Israel is digging its heels in against a current whose strength is increasing . The ' Nakba Law , ' the allegiance oath , the Anti-political NGO laws , the Anti-boycott Law -- all these are symptoms of a society which has lost control of its own sense of legitimacy , and therefore uses a temporary coalition majority to impose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fa ? ade of strength and determination . <p> Israel is in a race against time , and if it does n't change course , it 's going to lose . <p> Israel 's speedometer and compass are currently focused on September or shortly beyond , but even if the current government manages to convince enough countries not to support the Palestinian bid in the UN , the end of Israel 's control over the Palestinian people can not be stopped . <p> Israel wants and needs security . It wants and needs recognition of its legitimacy . <p> Israel wants and needs to resolve the Palestinian refugee issue within the Palestinian state . It wants and needs recognized and secure borders . Israel wants and needs the entire world to recognize Jerusalem as its capital . None of these can be attained without first meeting similar needs and desires of the Palestinian people . <p> But instead of declaring its readiness to recognize a Palestinian state , Israel is busily working to prevent its emergence . <p> All declarations of support for a two-state solution are irrelevant in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , foreign minister and all its diplomatic service are actively trying to prevent the Palestinian people from achieving liberty . This is how most of the world perceives it ; this is how every Palestinian sees it . <p> THE OPPORTUNITY is at hand to turn the page on this conflict and to begin a new era . Israel can change the way that almost every Palestinian views it . Israeli recognition of a Palestinian state on the basis of the Obama principles -- ' 67 borders with agreed territorial swaps , real security arrangements , a non-militarized Palestinian state , Israel as the homeland of the Jewish people and Palestine the homeland of the Palestinian people , and a willingness to open sincere , honest and time-bound direct negotiations -- would be like a magic wand . Both sides would be compelled to enter negotiations , and both would then have to make hard decisions and painful compromises . <p> Instead , Israel is digging in its heels . <p> It will use its strength , sometimes with sophistication and cunning -- as it did with the flotilla and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mere force , as it does every Friday all around the West Bank . But none of this will buy security , legitimacy , or the end of conflict with the Palestinians . <p> This conflict will not simply go away . <p> The Palestinian people will not bury their yearning for freedom and independence . <p> The majority of nations around the world will not forever , and not even for a long time , bow to Israel 's refusal to remove its control over the Palestinian people . <p> The end of this conflict is inevitable . It has been long ; it has been painful and bloody . It has created deep-rooted hatred , anger and despair . It generates fear , and fear feeds the sense that it is impossible to arrive at peace . There are ways to make that route a lot less dangerous . In the end , Israel and Palestine will live in peace and we all know , more or less , what a peace agreement must look like . <p> Why do we still refuse to see the inevitable ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Israel Palestine Center for Research and Information , he hosts a weekly radio show in Hebrew on All for Peace radio ( 107.4 FM in Israel ) , and is a voluntary columnist for The Jerusalem Post . <p> var cont = Sign up for The Jerusalem Post Premium Plus for just $5Upgrade your reading experience with an ad-free environment and exclusive content <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@32435004 <h> Grapevine , December 18 , 2020 : Chinese on Christmas Eve <h> The movers and shakers of Isareli society <p> FOLLOWING THE popularity of their Thanksgiving Zoom " dine-in-your-own-home communal experience , " the Association of Americans and Canadians in Israel is presenting " The Best of Broadway , " accompanied by a kosher mehadrin meal . All things considered , this is taking pluralism not quite to its height -- but near enough . The audience is almost entirely if not completely Jewish . The cuisine is Chinese ; the music is American and the date is Christmas Eve , December 24 . The singer is Aviella Trepido , a seasoned performer , who is appearing together with the multi-talented Ehud Knebel the show 's musical director and accordionist . The production will feature a host of Broadway melodies . Showtime is 7 p.m . The heat-and-eat three-course Chinese meal prepared by Kinamon Caterers will be delivered to homes in Jerusalem , Ma'aleh Adumim and Gush Etzion . <p> Registration at : **44;2191;TOOLONG ... REGULAR READER and writer of letters to the editor Dr. Colin Leci , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immediate neighbor of the prime minister in that the Brenner Street Ahad Ha'am intersection where his apartment is located , is more than a block away from Paris Square and Gaza Street , where demonstrators have been congregating for some six months . However , police allowed demonstrators last Saturday night to disturb the peace in Brenner Street . The noise level according to Leci , was more than a hundred decibels even when the shutters on all the windows in his apartment were closed . He made two calls to the police to complain . The noise could clearly be heard through the phone he says , but the response was zilch . Leci recorded the din and took video shots of the crowd and sent them to Deputy Mayor Fleur Hassan-Nahoum , though not expecting a response . The prime minister 's neighbors near and far have had to put up with this for six months . <p> Leci is not trying to stop the demonstrations . He just wants police to contain them in one specific area . He is a member of a WhatsApp group calling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Group members have also been in touch with Stelian Gelberg , the Environment Ministry 's director of noise prevention . Environment Minister Gila Gamliel is very tough on environmental violations . She has already fined Noble Energy-Chevron NIS 3.2 million for offshore pollution of the sea . <p> BRITISH-ISRAELI street artist Solomon Souza , well-known in Jerusalem for his spray paintings on walls in and around Mahaneh Yehuda , entered into an arrangement whereby he helped to produce an exhibition on Jewish Athletes and the Holocaust . Souza was commissioned last year by Chelsea Football Club and its owner Roman Abramovich to create a commemorative mural to Jewish football players who perished or were murdered during the Holocaust . The completed mural was unveiled during Holocaust Memorial Day , after which Souza was asked to develop an extended exhibition under the title of " 49 Flames " commemorating 49 Olympic medalists murdered during the Holocaust . The exhibition is part of the continuing campaign by Chelsea Football Club to Say No to Antisemitism . <p> AT THE annual conference of Jerusalem-based NGO Monitor , the organization 's founder and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government funding to NGOs that claim to promote human rights but have links to terror groups . In its research , NGO Monitor has come across data indicating that more than $46 million in government funding has been transferred to such NGOs . Steinberg says that so far , 80 terror-linked individuals have been identified in organizations that purport to promote human rights . <p> Other Israelis who participated in the international conference included Rabbi Eitan Shnerb , father of Rina Shnerb z " l , murdered in 2019 by a terror cell headed by officials from a European-funded NGO . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@86435917 <p> RAMALLAH , West Bank ( Reuters ) - As Israel prepares to give COVID-19 vaccines to its citizens , Palestinians in the Israeli-occupied West Bank and Gaza are scrambling to secure their own doses , which health authorities say are still months away . <p> Slideshow ( 5 images ) <p> Palestinian leaders have cast a wide net in their search , contacting international organisations , drugmakers like Moderna and AstraZeneca and states like Russia and China that are producing their own vaccines . <p> But the cash-strapped Palestinian government has yet to finalise any private supply agreements - a contrast from neighbouring Israel , which has secured millions of doses from drugmakers and is developing its own vaccine . <p> Israel begins its vaccination drive on Saturday . <p> " It will be many months before we receive a quantity of vaccines sufficient to vaccinate people en masse , " Prime Minister Mohammad Shtayyeh of the Palestinian Authority ( PA ) , which has limited self-rule in the West Bank , said on Thursday . <p> The PA expects to receive 20% of its needs from the World @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries . The rest will come from PA- or donor-funded vaccine purchases , the PA says . <p> PA Health Minister Mai Alkaila estimated that the PA could receive an initial vaccine shipment by March . She did not say from whom . <p> New coronavirus cases have spiked in recent weeks in the West Bank and in the Gaza Strip , which Israel keeps under a blockade citing threats from the coastal enclave 's Islamist rulers Hamas . <p> The WHO says it is working with U.N . agencies to secure vaccines and medical equipment for Gaza . <p> But some rights groups said it was Israel 's responsibility to ensure that Palestinians living in territory it captured in a 1967 war receive vaccines . <p> " Israel is obligated to protect the health and safety of all people living under its control , including by ensuring that the vaccine is available in Israel , the West Bank , and Gaza , " the Israeli rights group Gisha said . <p> Deputy Israeli Health Minister Yoav Kisch said Israel would consider assisting the PA if " we see that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capacity . <p> " There is also a significance and benefit in terms of preventing entry ( of carriers ) to our ( side ) , in this matter . But Israel 's citizens come first , " Kisch told Kan radio . <p> Gaza , whose densely concentrated and mostly poor population of 2 million is vulnerable to contagions , has logged 237 deaths and more than 32,000 cases of the coronavirus . <p> The West Bank , home to 3 million Palestinians , has seen 86,594 cases and 846 deaths . 
@@72527515 <h> Six Lessons of the Gaza Conflict <h> Holding Fire , Hasbara and a Photo of Slain Palestinian Kids <p> There was no daylight between Prime Minister Netanyahu 's Israel and President Obama 's United States , not even a sliver . Most of the international community , including perfidious Europe , gave Jerusalem its unequivocal support . Egypt 's Muslim Brotherhood leadership played a pivotal and responsible role . The media coverage , as a general rule , was balanced , but only at it worst . Israeli complaints and fears were accorded just as much sympathy , if not more , than Palestinian suffering , including the innocent women and children killed in IDF bombings . <p> So there is hardly any conventional Israeli wisdom that was not challenged in recent days , no entrenched Jewish notion left untouched , no right wing stereotype that was not undermined , no part of what has become the pervasive 21st century post-Goldstone and post-Marmara weltanschauung for most Israelis and many Diaspora Jews that was not contradicted , at least partially , by the world 's reaction to Israel 's Operation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alone , the world was not against us , the media was far from hostile , President Obama was a friend indeed and if anyone had a right to feel isolated , misunderstood and much-maligned in recent days , rightly or wrongly , it was the Palestinians , not us . In the entire US Congress , among 100 senators and 435 representatives , the harshest " anti-Israel " statement , if it can be described as such , was put out by the Muslim congressman from Minnesota Keith Ellison , who bravely called on both sides to " show restraint " . <p> Die hard guardians of Israel 's good name still pounced , of course , on an errant paragraph here or a hint of criticism there , but all in all it was slim pickings indeed for those who insist on clinging to the biblical Balaam 's description of Israel as " a nation that will dwell in solitude " , even when all the facts indicate otherwise . <p> But it was n't only the rigid right that was , or at least should have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ held assumptions . After all , here was perennial peace-spurner Netanyahu being cuddled by his former archenemy and the hero of the liberal world Obama , as Israeli warplanes bombarded much of Gaza to smithereens . Years of predicting that Israel 's rejectionist policies will turn it into a pariah state , alone and isolated in the world arena , were undercut virtually overnight by countries that lined up to express their understanding and by newspaper editorials that voiced their empathy for Israel 's plight . <p> Like their right wing counterparts , however , pious leftists refused to let the facts get in the way of their dogmas : they resolved their cognitive dissonance with the magical words " Jewish lobby " , which , as the Protocols taught us long ago , has simply taken the entire world hostage . <p> Foreign Minister Avigdor Lieberman was quick to take credit for maintaining Israel 's good image , ascribing it to the " excellent work " that was done in what he described as the " hasbara front . " <p> But with all due respect to eloquent ambassadors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ posts or the tantalizing tweets that everyone was so enamored with in the first few days of the campaign -- they had only a marginal effect , at best , on Israel 's success in the battle for image supremacy . Pitted against an internationally recognized , Iranian-inspired terrorist group that glorifies martyrdom , worships death , celebrates massacres , enslaves its own people , seeks Israel 's destruction and has n't desisted from its so-called " armed struggle " for a single day of its existence -- Israel won the public relations war almost by default . <p> And even with the deck stacked in its favor , Israel would have had a hard time maintaining its PR edge , Hamas or no Hamas , if the army had invaded Gaza , fought house-to-house and evoked unpleasant memories of Operation Cast Lead and the Goldstone Report . <p> Israel has a much harder time defending itself when it is confronted by a moderate Palestinian leadership or by rock-throwing demonstrators or when it is forced to explain the killing of Turkish " civilians " aboard a ship at sea or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a two-state solution and the mass settlement of Israeli Jews throughout the territories supposedly earmarked for one of those states . Israel 's image , to a much larger degree than most Israelis would care to admit , is often determined on a case-by-case basis . Biases and double standards notwithstanding , what matters the most are the merits of each individual case . <p> But many Israelis will draw the wrong conclusions , unfortunately , from this week 's brief fling with world public opinion . It was n't our product that was defective all these years , they will tell themselves , but our marketing strategy . All we need now are a few more social media specialists , a reinforced creative department , new recruits of English-speaking front men and one or two brilliant slogans . ( And if that does n't work , then we will know for sure that the world hates Jews and is fundamentally predisposed against us . ) <p> Israeli observers reported that there was a subdued atmosphere at the press conference convened in Jerusalem on Wednesday night in which Netanyahu , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This was n't a joyous celebration of victory , they said , but a carefully managed effort in damage control . Many Israelis , these politicians knew , were going to be disappointed . They had expected more . <p> The reason , of course , is that they had been led to believe that there would indeed be more . " We will agree to a cease fire only when Hamas begs for it , " anonymous ministers told the press in the first few hours of the operation , even though Hamas , as far as anyone can tell , was never the begging type . <p> But these ministers ' statements were in keeping with a long-held Israeli tradition of overreaching bravado , most memorably etched in Israeli minds in the October 8 , 1973 bluster of that most tragic of Israeli army chiefs , David Elazar , who bragged " we will break their bones " a few short hours before the complete failure of a massive IDF counterattack in the Yom Kippur War . <p> Three Israelis deserve ignoble citations for having done their best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with invaluable ammunition and outperform all but the most despicable stereotypes of modern Israel . First in line is Interior Minister Eli Yishai , who described the army 's mission statement as " taking Gaza back to the Middle Ages " ; the second is Gilad Sharon , the son of the former prime minister , who published an article in the Jerusalem Post in which called on Israel to " flatten all of Gaza " , just as the US did in Hiroshima and Nagasaki . And the third is MK Michael Ben Ari , who told army soldiers that " there were no innocents in Gaza " so they should " hit them hard " , and then suggested giving the entire population six hours notice before expelling them to all Egypt . <p> All three statements stained Israel 's good name in the international arena and could be construed as incitement to commit war crimes . What 's worse is that all of the three abovementioned individuals will continue to mingle and operate in Israel 's highest circles and pay absolutely no price for their obnoxious statements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hamas leaders themselves would say . And what 's worst of all is that you do n't want to know how many Israelis wholeheartedly concur with these three atrocious sentiments , and let 's hope that no one conducts a poll to ask them . <p> Israel is facing a barbaric enemy that has a callous disregard for human life ; the Israeli army does its utmost to try and avoid civilian casualties , while its adversaries do their best to target them ; Israelis voluntarily withdrew from the Gaza Strip and would have happily allowed it to flourish had Hamas leaders not turned it into a staging ground for attacks against Israeli towns and villages ; no country can be expected to sit back and allow its terrorized citizens to become sitting ducks for incessant rocket attacks from across the border ; Hamas hides behind its own citizens in order to force Israel to choose between abandoning its bombing raids or causing civilian casualties ; comparing the number of civilian casualties on both sides creates a false moral equivalence between the aggressor and the justified defender ; Israel has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same circumstances ; no army is as moral as the IDF ; and so on and so forth . <p> But there is a Reuters picture that I wish I had n't seen . I looked at it , almost by accident , and it has been seared into my memory ever since . It shows 6 year old Jamal Mohammed Jamal al-Dalu , 4 year old Yousef Mohammed Jamal al-Dalu , 7 year old Sarah Mohammed Jamal al-Dalu , and one year old Ibrahim Mohammed Jamal al-Dalu , all lying together , faces bruised , eyes closed , breaths extinguished , on a steel gurney in a Gaza morgue . <p> They were killed in an air force bombing raid in what Israel says - and I am absolutely convinced - was a regrettable human error . <p> But most Israelis have n't seen this picture . They would n't want to , even if they could . They may have heard of , but they certainly have n't devoted too much attention to , the killing of the 8 members of the al-Dalu family . Many of them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a main headline to their demise . <p> The righteous indignation sparked and stoked by many years of Israel 's belief in its own victimhood has made most Israelis willfully turn a blind eye to the tragedies of the other side . It is a far cry from the soul-searching angst of the soldiers who were interviewed following the Six Day War in the famous book " Seventh Day " , which has since been depicted as no more than a myth , but which was nonetheless a defining manifesto for people of my generation . Nowadays , it is considered a sign of weakness , even a form of collaboration , to accord too much sympathy or to express too much sorrow at the loss of life , however innocent , however young , among those that Israel is fighting against . <p> There are two famous Hebrew sayings that come to my mind when I think about the Dalu children . " Happy is the one who seizes your infants ? and dashes them against the rocks " is one of the most extraordinarily and bitterly cruel sentences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which contains the famous " By the Rivers of Babylon " cry . And then there is Israel 's " national poet " Haim Nahman Bialik who penned that terrible warning that " Vengeance for the blood of a little child has yet to be invented by Satan . " <p> Both of these terrifying sayings are closely connected to the helplessness of oppressed Jews living in exile , who can only vent their hatred and anger at their oppressors in words , not deeds . Supposedly , such sentiments were supposed to have remained there , in exile , but obviously have n't . <p> But if I had to choose , I would throw in my lot with Bialik - though I do n't know if he was referring only to Jewish children or whether his searing words are also applicable if the blood of the child in question is spilled by accident , as " collateral damage . " <h> Top Stories <p> The Jewish Daily Forward welcomes reader comments in order to promote thoughtful discussion on issues of importance to the Jewish community . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Daily Forwardrequires that all commenters be appropriately respectful toward our writers , other commenters and the subjects of the articles . Vigorous debate and reasoned critique are welcome ; name-calling and personal invective are not . While we generally do not seek to edit or actively moderate comments , our spam filter prevents most links and certain key words from being posted and The Jewish Daily Forward reserves the right to remove comments for any reason . <p> Vayter / ? ? ? ? ? ? ? : A biweekly blog presenting original Yiddish articles , fiction , essays , videos and art by young writers and artists . <p> We will not share your e-mail address or other personal information . <p> The Forward occasionally sends promotional e-mails to our subscribers on behalf of selected sponsors , whose advertising supports our independent journalism . We hope you will look at their messages and find their offers interesting to you , but if you would like to opt out of receiving them , please uncheck this box . 
@@72527711 <h> British Lawmaker George Galloway Proclaims District ' Israel-Free ' <h> Notorious Pol Says Bradford Does n't Want Tourists From Israel <p> Police in Britain are looking into complaints against a lawmaker who called for his constituency to be " declared an Israel-free zone . " <p> George Galloway of the far-left Respect Party made the call during a speech over the weekend in Leeds , prompting an investigation by West Yorkshire Police . <p> " We do n't even want any Israeli tourists to come to Bradford even if any of them had thought of doing so , " Galloway said . " We reject this illegal , barbarous , savage state that calls itself Israel -- and you have to do the same . " <p> Galloway also said that Israeli goods , services and academics were likewise unwelcome . " We have declared Bradford an Israel-free zone , " he added . <p> A spokesperson for West Yorkshire Police told the BBC police has received two complaints againt Galloway in connection to his speech in Leeds . <p> Discrimination on the basis of nationality or race is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ <p> Galloway has said Israel should be abolished and replaced with a bi-national state . He called Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas an " American stooge . " <p> Asked about Galloway 's statement , David Ward of the left-wing Liberal Democrats party said " Israel-free zone was a nice sound bite , " but any boycott had to be nationwide . <p> Last year , Ward was suspended from his party for three months for writing that he was " saddened that the Jews , who suffered unbelievable levels of persecution during the Holocaust , could within a few years of liberation from the death camps be inflicting atrocities on Palestinians in the new State of Israel and continue to do so on a daily basis in the West Bank and Gaza . " <p> Ward is now facing new disciplinary scrutiny for writing last month on Twitter : " The big question is -- if I lived in #Gaza would I fire a rocket ? -- probably yes . " <p> On Thursday , Nick Clegg , a British deputy prime minister and the leader of Ward 's party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's arms export licenses to Israel if it resumes its attacks in Gaza . <h> Top Stories <p> The Jewish Daily Forward welcomes reader comments in order to promote thoughtful discussion on issues of importance to the Jewish community . In the interest of maintaining a civil forum , The Jewish Daily Forwardrequires that all commenters be appropriately respectful toward our writers , other commenters and the subjects of the articles . Vigorous debate and reasoned critique are welcome ; name-calling and personal invective are not . While we generally do not seek to edit or actively moderate comments , our spam filter prevents most links and certain key words from being posted and The Jewish Daily Forward reserves the right to remove comments for any reason . <p> Vayter / ? ? ? ? ? ? ? : A biweekly blog presenting original Yiddish articles , fiction , essays , videos and art by young writers and artists . <p> We will not share your e-mail address or other personal information . <p> The Forward occasionally sends promotional e-mails to our subscribers on behalf of selected sponsors , whose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ look at their messages and find their offers interesting to you , but if you would like to opt out of receiving them , please uncheck this box . 
@@86449806 <p> The Palestinian territory 's first parkour gym - equipped with wooden boxes over which youngsters can soar in twists and flips , and padded mattresses to land on - has opened its doors . <p> Developed in France , the dynamic urban sport took root in Gaza around 15 years ago . It provides its own sense of freedom of movement in an area locked in conflict with neighbouring Israel , which blockades the enclave , citing security concerns . <p> " I have played parkour for 13 years now . During those 13 years I have suffered several injuries , the worst was to my wrist , and it stopped me playing the game for a year , " said Jehad Abu Sultan , 32 , one of two coaches at the new Wallrunners academy . <p> Some 70 athletes , male and female and aged between six and 26 , are enrolled in his current free three-month course . Dozens are on waiting lists . <p> Abu Sultan , a co-founder of Gaza 's first parkour group , began practicing his acrobatics at a cemetery in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forced some of his colleagues to quit . <p> " There were no safety and security factors . Now with this hall and this first academy we can avoid injuries . A player will perform the moves easily , " he said . <p> Mohammad Al-Masri , 17 , said police used to give chase when he and others played parkour at schools . <p> " I used to be scared when I played , " he said . " Now I am here , playing safe . " <p> Writing by Nidal Almughrabi ; Editing by Jeffrey Heller and John Stonestreet 
@@86462508 <p> The airstrike targets included rocket manufacturing facility and training and military posts belonging to Hamas , the militant group ruling Gaza , according to the military . <p> Palestinian media reported the airstrikes shattered windows in east Gaza City . There were no reports of casualties . <p> The rockets fired on Friday were aimed at the Israeli coastal city of Ashkelon , but air defenses intercepted them , the military said . No Palestinian group in Gaza has claimed responsibility for the rocket fire , which broke months of cross-border calm . <p> Volleys of missiles from the Iron Dome defense system illuminated the sky in northern Gaza Strip as they exploded trying to hit the incoming rockets . <p> Rocket attacks and Israeli retaliatory artillery and aerial strikes are frequent , but they have largely been subdued in recent months due to the raging coronavirus outbreak in both territories . <p> Hamas which has ruled Gaza since 2007 and fought three wars with Israel and countless rounds of smaller skirmishes , maintains an unofficial cease-fire with Israel . <p> Hamas charges that Israel does n't honor its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Palestinian enclave , and allowing for large-scale infrastructure and job-creation projects . 
@@86462905 <p> Because Of COVID-19 Pandemic , Fewer Tourists Flock To Bethlehem The annual Christmas festivities around the Church of the Nativity in the city of Bethlehem were scaled back . But residents were intent on maintaining the traditions . <h> Because Of COVID-19 Pandemic , Fewer Tourists Flock To Bethlehem <p> The annual Christmas festivities around the Church of the Nativity in the city of Bethlehem were scaled back . But residents were intent on maintaining the traditions . <p> DAVID GREENE , HOST : <p> And now for Christmas . In Bethlehem , the ancient community has seen so much over the years , spiked with war and conflict , but none quite like this year 's holiday during a pandemic . NPR 's Daniel Estrin went to the Palestinian town and has this report . <p> DANIEL ESTRIN , BYLINE : The Church of the Nativity is shockingly empty - no pilgrims lining up to kiss the spot where tradition says Jesus was born . Local tour guide Nidal Korna idles at the entrance . <p> NIDAL KORNA : First Lebanese war , second Lebanese war , Gaza @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we were always affected - never been this situation . Today we are in the zero level . <p> ESTRIN : Last Christmas capped a record year for Bethlehem tourism - no room at the inns . Hotels were fully booked . Then the pandemic reached the Holy Land . And till today , Israel bans foreign tourists . The Bethlehem Chamber of Commerce says about 1 in 5 of the city 's businesses will never recover . Olive woodcarver Jack Giacaman stands outside his shop . <p> JACK GIACAMAN : The shop closed . As you can see , it is dusty . The street is empty . <p> ESTRIN : Bethlehem is hemmed in by a concrete wall Israel built during a wave of Palestinian attacks . Palestinians say it makes their lives a ghetto and impedes their access to nearby Jerusalem . Giacaman says the pandemic highlights the inequalities between the two sides . <p> GIACAMAN : In Israel , they have a very strong government with a lot of money . They give the people during lockdown money , medical care . They have very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the medical care . They do n't get money from the government . That is a big gap between the two people but just one wall separating between . <p> NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by Verb8tm , Inc. , an NPR contractor , and produced using a proprietary transcription process developed with NPR . This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future . Accuracy and availability may vary . The authoritative record of NPR 's programming is the audio record . 
@@86463507 <h> Israeli jets strike Gaza after militants fire rockets <p> The airstrike targets included rocket manufacturing facility and training and military posts belonging to Hamas , the militant group ruling Gaza , according to the military . <p> Palestinian media reported the airstrikes shattered windows in east Gaza City . There were no reports of casualties . <p> The rockets fired on Friday were aimed at the Israeli coastal city of Ashkelon , but air defenses intercepted them , the military said . No Palestinian group in Gaza has claimed responsibility for the rocket fire , which broke months of cross-border calm . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Volleys of missiles from the Iron Dome defense system illuminated the sky in northern Gaza Strip as they exploded trying to hit the incoming rockets . <p> Rocket attacks and Israeli retaliatory artillery and aerial strikes are frequent , but they have largely been subdued in recent months due to the raging coronavirus outbreak in both territories . <p> Hamas which has ruled Gaza since 2007 and fought three wars with Israel and countless rounds of smaller skirmishes , maintains an unofficial cease-fire with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its truce obligations , which include easing a crippling blockade on the Palestinian enclave , and allowing for large-scale infrastructure and job-creation projects . 
@@86464700 <h> Artists lead efforts to restore , preserve Gaza 's old houses <p> A female artist volunteer cleans a room of the long-abandoned 200-year-old al-Kamalaia school , in the old quarter of Gaza City , Sunday , Dec. 20 , 2020 . Less than 200 of these old houses are still partly or entirely standing , according to officials and they are threatened by neglect , decaying and urban sprawl . <p> Adel Hana <p> Architects and workers renovate the long-abandoned 200-year-old al-Kamalaia school , in the old quarter of Gaza City , Sunday , Dec. 20 , 2020 . Less than 200 of these old houses are still partly or entirely standing , according to officials and they are threatened by neglect , decaying and urban sprawl . <p> Adel Hana <p> An architect , center , and workers renovate the long-abandoned 200-year-old Ghussein palace , in the old quarter of Gaza City , Monday , Dec. 14 , 2020 . Less than 200 of these old houses are still partly or entirely standing , according to officials and they are threatened by neglect , decaying and urban sprawl @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ghussein palace , in the old quarter of Gaza City , Monday , Dec. 14 , 2020 . Less than 200 of these old houses are still partly or entirely standing , according to officials and they are threatened by neglect , decaying and urban sprawl . <p> Adel Hana <p> Architects and workers renovate the long-abandoned 200-year-old Ghussein palace , in the old quarter of Gaza City , Monday , Dec. 14 , 2020 . Less than 200 of these old houses are still partly or entirely standing , according to officials and they are threatened by neglect , decaying and urban sprawl . <p> Adel Hana <p> A female artist volunteer renovates a room of the long-abandoned 200-year-old al-Kamalaia school , in the old quarter of Gaza City , Sunday , Dec. 20 , 2020 . Less than 200 of these old houses are still partly or entirely standing , according to officials and they are threatened by neglect , decaying and urban sprawl . <p> Adel Hana <p> Workers renovate the long-abandoned 200-year-old Ghussein palace , in the old quarter of Gaza City , Monday , Dec. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ houses are still partly or entirely standing , according to officials and they are threatened by neglect , decaying and urban sprawl . <p> Adel Hana <p> Female artist volunteers renovate a room of the long-abandoned 200-year-old al-Kamalaia school , in the old quarter of Gaza City , Sunday , Dec. 20 , 2020 . Less than 200 of these old buildings are still partly or entirely standing , according to officials and they are threatened by neglect , decaying and urban sprawl . <p> Adel Hana <p> A worker renovates the long-abandoned 200-year-old Ghussein palace , in the old quarter of Gaza City , Monday , Dec. 14 , 2020 . Less than 200 of these old houses are still partly or entirely standing , according to officials and they are threatened by neglect , decaying and urban sprawl . <p> Adel Hana <p> Architects and workers renovate the long-abandoned 200-year-old al-Kamalaia school , in the old quarter of Gaza City , Sunday , Dec. 20 , 2020 . Less than 200 of these old houses are still partly or entirely standing , according to officials and they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ GAZA CITY , Gaza Strip ( AP ) -- The grand , 500-year-old brick walls of the al-Kamalaia School slowly emerged from years of accumulated garbage as grassroots preservers began the long process of restoring it to its former glory . <p> Located in the heart of the old quarter of Gaza City , the Mamluk-era building is one of an ever-dwindling number of historic structures at risk of demolition . <p> " It was in a very difficult , pitiful state . It was a dump , " said Abdullah al-Ruzzi , an artist and leading volunteer . <p> Al-Ruzzi and other artists launched the Mobaderoon , or Initiators , program , seeking to save abandoned houses and buildings from two periods of Gaza 's history : the Mamluk Sultanate and the subsequent Ottoman Empire . <p> In the old section of the Palestinian enclave , fewer than 200 houses from these eras are partially or entirely standing , according to tourist officials . They are threatened by neglect , decay or even demolition by new urban development . <p> " Lack of public awareness and the economic considerations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " said Ahmed al-Astal , director of Iwan , the history and heritage institute of Gaza 's Islamic University . " These houses are our identity , but ignorance leads to their destruction . " <p> Because the Gaza Strip is small , with 2 million people living in just 300 square kilometers ( 115 square miles ) , the experts and volunteers fear that structures of past centuries will disappear , like those from far more ancient civilizations . <h> Most-read stories in this section <p> Population growth , conflict with Israel and mismanagement by Hamas , the militant group that has run Gaza since 2007 , have contributed to the erasure of many signs of Gaza 's five millennia of history . The territory has been enriched by its prime location along the route connecting ancient Egypt , the Levant and Mesopotamia . For example , Hamas bulldozers destroyed large parts of a rare 4,500-year-old Bronze Age settlement to make way for a housing project . <p> Mobaderoon is one of a handful of organizations seeking to preserve ancient sites in Gaza City . But their efforts are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It took the team two weeks to remove the trash from the al-Kamalaia school , which is named after a Mamluk sultan . Each day , young men and women gather there , sweeping the dusty floor , brushing the bricks and supporting windows with wood frames . <p> Once the renovation is completed , al-Ruzzi says the goal is to convert the building into a venue for cultural and artistic activities because such facilities are few in Gaza . <p> " This is the only school that still maintains its architectural standing , it still has classrooms . It 's clear that this school was used until a recent time in education and memorizing the Quran because it 's in the old city , " said Jamal Abu Rida , director of the archaeology department in Gaza 's Tourism Ministry . <p> Residents of Gaza are preoccupied with financial woes , struggling with a 13-year-old Israeli-Egyptian blockade , and combatting a raging coronavirus outbreak that has overwhelmed the health system . Campaigns to protect heritage and archaeological sites are not top priorities , but are welcomed . <p> " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preserve the cultural legacy , " said al-Astal . <p> A few blocks from the school , a different team is working on renovating a house , the Ghussein palace , named after the family that has owned it for 200 years . The workers scraped the bricks to remove layers of dust that hid their features . Others took measurements for the door frames . <p> The work began on this home in August and is scheduled to be complete in January . " It was left for a long time and has a lot of cracks and problems , " said Nashwa Ramlawi , the architect leading the restoration . " The place has a great heritage and cultural value . We will dedicate it for anything that serves the community ; a cultural , service or social center open to everyone . " <p> Copyright 2020 The Associated Press . All rights reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten or redistributed without permission . <p> An explosion shook the largely deserted streets of downtown Nashville early Christmas morning , shattering windows , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believed the blast was intentional . The FBI is leading the investigation . <p> RIO DE JANEIRO ( AP ) -- Rio de Janeiro state police arrested outgoing Mayor Marcelo Crivella on Tuesday in connection with an alleged kickbacks scheme , yet another show of political turmoil in Brazil 's postcard city . <p> BRUSSELS ( AP ) -- The conversation taking place around two U.S. senators ' verified social media accounts remained vulnerable to manipulation through artificially inflated shares and likes from fake users , even amid heightened scrutiny in the run up to the U.S. presidential election , an investigation by the NATO Strategic Communications Centre of Excellence found . <p> An explosion shook the largely deserted streets of downtown Nashville early Christmas morning , shattering windows , damaging buildings and wounding three people . Authorities said they believed the blast was intentional . The FBI is leading the investigation . <p> BERLIN ( AP ) -- A German court ruled Saturday that automaker Tesla has to stop clearing trees on some parts of the site outside Berlin where it is building the company 's first electric car @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A growing list of European Union nations and Canada barred travel from the U.K. on Sunday and others were considering similar action , in a bid to block a new strain of coronavirus sweeping across southern England from spreading to the continent . <p> Chile said at least 58 people who were at military bases in Antarctica or on a navy ship that went to the continent tested positive for the coronavirus . <p> 1 of 10 <p> A female artist volunteer cleans a room of the long-abandoned 200-year-old al-Kamalaia school , in the old quarter of Gaza City , Sunday , Dec. 20 , 2020 . Less than 200 of these old houses are still partly or entirely standing , according to officials and they are threatened by neglect , decaying and urban sprawl . <p> Architects and workers renovate the long-abandoned 200-year-old al-Kamalaia school , in the old quarter of Gaza City , Sunday , Dec. 20 , 2020 . Less than 200 of these old houses are still partly or entirely standing , according to officials and they are threatened by neglect , decaying and urban sprawl @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the long-abandoned 200-year-old Ghussein palace , in the old quarter of Gaza City , Monday , Dec. 14 , 2020 . Less than 200 of these old houses are still partly or entirely standing , according to officials and they are threatened by neglect , decaying and urban sprawl . <p> Workers renovate the long-abandoned 200-year-old Ghussein palace , in the old quarter of Gaza City , Monday , Dec. 14 , 2020 . Less than 200 of these old houses are still partly or entirely standing , according to officials and they are threatened by neglect , decaying and urban sprawl . <p> Architects and workers renovate the long-abandoned 200-year-old Ghussein palace , in the old quarter of Gaza City , Monday , Dec. 14 , 2020 . Less than 200 of these old houses are still partly or entirely standing , according to officials and they are threatened by neglect , decaying and urban sprawl . <p> A female artist volunteer renovates a room of the long-abandoned 200-year-old al-Kamalaia school , in the old quarter of Gaza City , Sunday , Dec. 20 , 2020 . Less than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ standing , according to officials and they are threatened by neglect , decaying and urban sprawl . <p> Workers renovate the long-abandoned 200-year-old Ghussein palace , in the old quarter of Gaza City , Monday , Dec. 14 , 2020 . Less than 200 of these old houses are still partly or entirely standing , according to officials and they are threatened by neglect , decaying and urban sprawl . <p> Female artist volunteers renovate a room of the long-abandoned 200-year-old al-Kamalaia school , in the old quarter of Gaza City , Sunday , Dec. 20 , 2020 . Less than 200 of these old buildings are still partly or entirely standing , according to officials and they are threatened by neglect , decaying and urban sprawl . <p> A worker renovates the long-abandoned 200-year-old Ghussein palace , in the old quarter of Gaza City , Monday , Dec. 14 , 2020 . Less than 200 of these old houses are still partly or entirely standing , according to officials and they are threatened by neglect , decaying and urban sprawl . <p> Architects and workers renovate the long-abandoned 200-year-old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Sunday , Dec. 20 , 2020 . Less than 200 of these old houses are still partly or entirely standing , according to officials and they are threatened by neglect , decaying and urban sprawl . 
@@86464901 <p> ANKARA ( Reuters ) - Turkey would like better ties with Israel but Israeli policy towards the Palestinians remains " unacceptable " , President Tayyip Erdogan said on Friday . <p> Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan addresses members of his ruling AK Party during a meeting at the parliament ? in Ankara , Turkey , December 23 , 2020 . Presidential Press Office/Handout via REUTERS <p> Turkey and Israel , once allies , have had a bitter falling out in recent years . Ankara has repeatedly condemned Israel 's occupation in the West Bank and its treatment of Palestinians . It has also criticised recent U.S.-brokered rapprochements between Israel and four Muslim countries . <p> " If there were no issues at the top level ( in Israel ) , our ties could have been very different , " he said , adding that the two countries continued to share intelligence . " We would have liked to bring our ties to a better point . " <p> Israel 's Foreign Ministry declined to comment on Erdogan 's statement . <p> Turkey and Israel expelled each other 's ambassadors in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the Gaza border . <p> In August this year , Israel accused Turkey of giving passports to a dozen Hamas members in Istanbul , describing the move as " a very unfriendly step " . <p> Hamas seized Gaza from forces loyal to Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas in 2007 , and the group has fought three wars with Israel since then . Turkey says Hamas is a legitimate political movement that won power through democratic elections . <p> Israel has formalised ties with four Muslim countries this year - the United Arab Emirates , Bahrain , Sudan and Morocco . It said on Wednesday it was working towards normalising ties with a fifth Muslim nation , possibly in Asia . <p> Ankara has slammed the U.S.-brokered deals , with Erdogan previously threatening to suspend diplomatic ties with the UAE and withdraw its envoy . Turkey also slammed Bahrain 's decision to formalise ties as a blow to efforts to defend the Palestinian cause . <p> Palestinians see the U.S.-brokered deals as a betrayal of a long-standing demand that Israel first meet their demand for statehood . Egypt and Israel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 
@@32453005 <h> Clinton : Israeli home demolitions ' unhelpful ' <p> March 4 , 2009 , 11:39 AM UTC / Source : The Associated Press <p> U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton on Wednesday promised vigorous and personal involvement in stalled Mideast peace efforts and criticized Israel 's demolition of Palestinian homes in Jerusalem as " unhelpful . " <p> Clinton also displayed strong public support for Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas . The Palestinian Authority is the " only legitimate government of the Palestinian people , " she told a news conference , standing next to Abbas . <p> The Palestinian president has steadily lost support at home , particularly after a year of inconclusive peace talks with Israel . At the same time , his Islamic militant Hamas rivals , who seized Gaza from him in 2007 , are widely seen as emerging stronger from Israel 's recent military offensive against them . <p> Talking to reporters after meeting Clinton , Abbas criticized Iran , one of the main backers of Hamas . He charged that Iran is trying to " deepen the Palestinian split " and said , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and stay away from intervening in Palestinian affairs . " <p> In violence Wednesday , two Islamic Jihad militants were killed in an Israeli airstrike after sundown in northern Gaza , Palestinian security and health officials said . The Israeli military said the target was a senior Islamic Jihad militant who was involved in firing rockets at the Israeli city of Ashkelon , north of Gaza . <p> On Tuesday , Clinton met with Israeli leaders , including Prime Minister-designate Benjamin Netanyahu . The hardline leader opposes the creation of a Palestinian state alongside Israel and supports the expansion of Israeli settlements on war-won land claimed by the Palestinians , including the West Bank and east Jerusalem . <p> In recent days , Israel has issued orders for the demolition of dozens of Palestinian homes in east Jerusalem , saying the homes were built illegally . <p> Palestinians say they can not receive proper building permits from Israeli authorities , and the planned demolitions are means to assert Israel 's control over the disputed city . <p> " Clearly , this kind of activity is unhelpful , " Clinton said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government as well as municipal officials in Jerusalem . She said such actions violate the " road map , " a U.S.-backed peace plan . <p> ' Demographic war'Clinton spoke shortly after Israel issued a new order to demolish five residential buildings containing 55 apartments , said Hatem Abdul Qader , a Palestinian official on Jerusalem affairs . <p> " It 's an open demographic war , " he said . He said lawyers have challenged the orders , halting the demolitions until March 10 . <p> Stephan Miller , a spokesman for city hall , said the buildings under demolition notice were empty and had been built illegally . <p> Israel captured east Jerusalem in the 1967 Mideast war and annexed the area . But the annexation is not internationally recognized , and the Palestinians seek east Jerusalem as capital of a future independent state . <p> Palestinian leaders are watching closely for signs of change in U.S. policy toward the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . The Palestinians were disappointed with the previous U.S. administration 's failure to take Israel to task for accelerated settlement construction in 2008 , at a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . <p> Abbas said Israel can not be considered a peace partner if it keeps expanding settlements and demolishes homes in east Jerusalem . " The Israeli government has to respect its obligations under the road map and the two-state solution and completely stop all that is related to settlement and demolitions , " he said . <p> ' Vigorously engaged'Clinton signaled that she 'd be heavily involved in the region , and said her special envoy , George Mitchell , would return soon . <p> " The Obama administration will be vigorously engaged in efforts to forge a lasting peace between Israel , Palestinians and all of the Arab neighbors . I will remain personally engaged , " she said . " This is a commitment that I carry in my heart , not just in my portfolio . " <p> Her predecessor , Condoleezza Rice , was also a frequent visitor , but made no headway in solving the conflict . <p> Clinton suggested Wednesday she is not considering imposing solutions , saying it 's up to the two sides to reach an agreement . Clinton said she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Netanyahu government . " <p> Netanyahu is still trying to form a coalition , and seems headed for a right-wing government , after being rebuffed by the centrist Kadima Party of outgoing Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni . <p> In Jerusalem on Tuesday , Clinton said that working toward the creation of a Palestinian state as part of a peace agreement with Israel " seems inescapable . " <p> Abbas and Clinton , meanwhile , talked about the future of Hamas-ruled Gaza . After the Hamas takeover , Israel and Egypt closed the territory , a policy tacitly supported by the international community , which shuns Hamas as a terrorist group . <p> However , the blockade has come under renewed scrutiny following Israel 's three-week military offensive against Hamas , which ended in an informal cease-fire Jan. 18 . Some 15,000 homes were destroyed or damaged in the war , meant to halt Palestinian rocket fire on southern Israel , and international aid officials say Gaza 's borders need to reopen to make reconstruction possible . <p> " We want humanitarian aid to get into Gaza in sufficient amounts to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Clinton said , but stopped short of calling for a full opening of the crossings . <p> Abbas called for an opening of Gaza 's borders to pave the way for reconstruction . <p> Currently , Israel allows several dozen truckloads of aid to get into Gaza every day , but bars the entry of concrete , pipes and other materials that would be crucial for reconstruction . Israel argues that such shipments could be seized by Hamas and used for building bunkers or rockets . <p> In Gaza , the Hamas government condemned Clinton 's comments . Spokesman Taher Nunu said her statement " was a slap in the face of those who were expecting changes in America foreign policy . She did not bring anything new . Instead , her statements show bias to the Zionist enemy . " 
@@86465813 <h> Resolving conflict in the absence of dialogue <p> Please note that the posts on The Blogs are contributed by third parties . The opinions , facts and any media content in them are presented solely by the authors , and neither The Times of Israel nor its partners assume any responsibility for them . Please contact us in case of abuse . In case of abuse , Report this post . <p> When the mayflower first dropped its anchor in the new world , none knew what was to come . Was it right for Europeans to settle in a land not their own ? Perhaps . They were , at least initially , welcomed by the native peoples after all . Later , the European population grew large and the relationship grew cold . What happened during this transition ? It is not clear who cast the first stone , in fact , it meaningfully matters little in the macroscopic sense . A gradual paradigm shift ; a consequence of microscopic factors which result in different emergent properties that echo those of its constituent parts . Is it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at all ? After all , one 's moral compass is not aligned with that of another . <p> The fact is , Europeans were unlikely to have dominated North America if there had been strong cohesion of the native population with ready access to technology as advanced as their European counterparts . <p> When Europeans first began to settle North America , they had no historical or religious connections to the region . Some could say they had no right to colonise those lands . What is not meaningful to argue against however , is that all North American citizens have the right to live there now , irrespective of their history . Indeed , it is only fair to acknowledge that no region in the world has traversed history completely morally clean . <p> The criteria Jews hoped to meet with the establishment of the State of Israel are many , though the focus of this article is peace . To live a life of peace is wished by the overwhelming majority of people . There is no reasonable doubt that fleeing the substantial ebb and flow of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a vital step in achieving a peaceful existence . A land needed to be secured . The one in the hearts and minds of Jews that could unify the broad Jewish diaspora was of course the land of Israel . So began Zionism . Needless to say , the criterion of living in peace has not been met and indeed only seems to fade into memory as the years go by . <p> Where the Jews experienced horror and hope , the Palestinians knew only an injustice ; they knew not of the significance of the persecution of Jews over the centuries as it was not directly relevant to them . Their land however , was a land they had a right to live in , their hope officially threatened by the Balfour declaration and largely thrown away in 1948 , catalysed by the Holocaust . To the Palestinians , the Jewish claim to Israel was not a valid one , after all , there had not been a significant Jewish presence in the land for nearly 2000 years . This is a vitally important fact for Israelis to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Middle East had lived in relative peace . <p> One meaningful contributing factor to the broader conflict is , at least in part , a generational one . Upon the establishment of the State of Israel , every Palestinian experienced the partition of their homeland , imposed upon them by the UN following world war 2 . Of the Jews that lived in Palestine pre 1948 , the majority were not from there , at least within a couple of generations . Most of the Jewish population in Palestine had fled the persecution of the first half of the 20th century . These first Israelis were , unsurprisingly , keen to establish peace . For years , with their troubled pasts fresh in their minds , they transferred their hope of peace to the first generation of Israel-born Israelis . These first-generation Israelis never dealt with the persecution that their parents had experienced in their birth countries . At this time too , there was still a sizeable population of Palestinians who had experienced leaving their homes and their lives behind . It is understandable why these Palestinians were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Anger , unlikely to be quelled by anything except the exodus of the Jews from the land now called Israel . <p> Later , the people of Israel began growing tired of the resistance and perceived stubbornness of the Palestinian people to establish any form of peace deal . The politics of Israel began swinging away from the left more and more so as the relative population of Israel-born Israelis grew , the relief of freedom from persecution amongst the population diminishes , and the reality of a world of being surrounded by hostile nations takes hold . Gone are memories amongst the population of playing with Arab children in their youth . The young first-generation Israelis lived through the acts of terrorism of pre-Israel born Palestinians , without a chance to understand why they were happening . Naturally , the general Israeli population assumed these most extreme forms of ideology were representative of the average Palestinian as is expected in isolated societies . <p> As the generation of pre-Israel born Palestinians were beginning to dwindle in number , the resentment of losing one 's home reduced and was exchanged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the West Bank and the ripples of hopelessness they carry permeate Palestinian society . Roadblocks and barriers further isolate groups of Palestinians , allowing extremist ideologies to evolve . The fracturing of the Palestinians ' ability for cohesion made a traditional peace deal impossible while giving rise to new reasons to dislike Israel . Of course , it is easy to understand why Israel has such measures in place , and it is reasonable to assume that any nation in the same situation would act the same way . Though this does not mean it is just to do so . <p> In essence , the first-generation Israelis faced the backlash of pre-Israel Palestinians while growing up and carried their scars with them , eventually dictating their political decisions . Those same decisions affecting the new generations of Palestinians today , perpetuating Israeli resentment in new forms . Of course , this is a general statement and a simplification of the whole which does not by any means represent the precise picture . However , the details , or micro-state , of the picture are not where the main @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the macro-state of the situation , the overarching principle . Of course , everyone has heard that the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is complex . The ins and outs have been discussed , analysed and re-worded thousands of times , convoluting and misrepresenting the substance of the argument by portraying individual constituents erroneously as the macro-state , making it seem complex when it is not . It is the micro-states which are . <p> There are many micro-states that contribute to the emergent property of the macro-state . These micro-states vary in complexity and altering small aspects of a micro-state can result in disparate consequences to the micro-state while affecting the macro-state very little if not at all . This understanding is crucial when on the topic of Israel-Palestinian relations , where the macro-state is full of animosity on both sides . Getting bogged down by the ingredients of this is nothing but detrimental to the cause and is rife with opinion . The facts of the matter remain ; this is not a conflict that has been ongoing for thousands of years , nor is it as complex as it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the crossfire only ever increases the relative extremism and strengthens friction with the State of Israel . Though collateral damage is unavoidable in military operations in densely populated areas , military operations are not necessarily unavoidable . <p> When in an argument with someone , is it ever truly beneficial to the resolution of an argument to start shouting ? Or rather , more importantly , is it beneficial to be shouted at ? Rarely , if ever , is an argument resolved without some compromise and calm admittance of fault , as the fault is almost never one-sided . <p> When trying to convince someone of anything , it is natural to gravitate towards putting forth a point in a way that you , yourself , find convincing . This is typically one of the least effective methods . The reason why this is , originates in the way people formulate their cognitions . For example , you find that it is a futile endeavour for an Evolutionist or Creationist to convince the other of their respective point of view by explaining the evolution of species or genesis . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other . However , by asking the right questions about the other side 's position , one can begin to convince the other . By making them think about their own position and why they think a certain way . <p> When faced with a disunited Palestine , the traditional approach of the government of Israel is to project its viewpoints , and rationale behind them , onto the Palestinian authority . So , whenever there is any dialogue concerning peace , it is destined to fail . Not only is the rationale behind the different sides ' arguments bound to fall flat , but the Israeli government is not even talking to a cohesive nation where all the citizens abide by the same set of rules ; acts of violence occasionally forgo these splintered groups entirely and come down to the individual level . It is time to throw these old methods out of the window . It is time to try something new . For how can the beautiful country of Israel be a symbol of freedom for some whilst being a symbol of captivity for others ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dig heels in and double down against the Palestinians . Instead it is time to help them and only help them . Only by not retaliating to violence with violence will this never-ending shouting match end and dialogue begin , allowing empathy and peace to follow . This will ultimately result in reacting to violence with kindness which , to many , seems unthinkable . Though only by being consistent can some of the heat dissipate from the situation and people of both sides start aligning in thought . After all , one does not permanently fix a leak-prone boat by fixing the holes ad hoc , but by overhauling the hull . It will be slow and sometimes painful , but worth it in the end . How many wars and bombings can be avoided ? Imagine a world where Israel does not have to spend 5% of its GDP on defence . This is not an impossible world . <p> As the more powerful nation , the onus lies with Israel to take this step . One advantage Israel has is unity and therefore control of its armed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can uphold the law relatively effectively when violence on the individual level occurs by the hand of an Israeli . An attack of an innocent Palestinian is an attack on Israeli values . The scope of attitude towards Palestinians must extend beyond military response . Sending aid , building schools and hospitals , relocating Israeli settlements out of the West Bank , and safe passage between Gaza and the West Bank with subsidised transport are just some of the humanitarian steps that could be taken . Israel must show commitment to Palestinian sovereignty . Over time , people of both sides will begin to question why there is a problem at all , when acts of violence become fewer and farther between . Doing this will not only quell the Palestinians , but also draw favour from the international community and in particular , the Muslim nations . <p> Will this work ? Perhaps , or perhaps not . Though for the possibility of peace , it may be worth some short-term sacrifice . After all , Jews and Arabs alike are nothing if not resilient . If anything , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the key . Will this satisfy everyone ? No , particularly not for the short term where things are likely to get worse before they get better . Slowly the situation will diffuse until one indistinct day , salaam can be the response to shalom and peace can end this brief history of conflict . <p> About the Author <p> Born in Ramat Gan , now residing in the UK , I have spent much of my life in between these two countries , considering greater philosophical questions . 
@@86482015 <h> Gaza militants fire rockets into the sea in first joint exercise <p> GAZA ( Reuters ) - An array of Palestinian militant groups launched rockets into the Mediterranean Sea off the Gaza Strip on Tuesday at the start of what they called their first-ever joint exercise , which Israeli media described as a show of force organised by Iran . <p> Gaza is run by Hamas and also home to other militant groups , including Islamic Jihad . The exercise was announced on behalf of a joint command set up by the groups in 2018 . <p> Eight rockets streaked through a cloudless sky in Gaza towards the Mediterranean after Abu Hamza , spokesman for Islamic Jihad , delivered a speech launching the drill . It will include land and coastal exercises described by the groups as a test of their preparedness for any future confrontation with Israel . <p> Israeli media said the drill was organised by the militants ' sponsors in Tehran to demonstrate risks Israel could face if Iran comes under U.S. or Israeli attack in the waning days of the Trump administration . <p> On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Iranian military commander General Qassem Soleimani , who was killed last January in a U.S. attack in Iraq , was erected along Gaza 's main coastal road . <p> Tensions between Iran and Israel have risen since the Nov. 27 assassination of top Iranian nuclear scientist Mohsen Fakhrizadeh . Iran has blamed Israel for his death ; Israel has neither confirmed nor denied a role . <p> Tuesday 's Gaza missile display did not trigger any sirens in Israel , whose drones keep a close eye on Gaza and which employs a sophisticated missile interception system . <p> Due to last 24 hours , the exercise included fighters from Hamas , Islamic Jihad , the Popular Resistance Committees and smaller armed groups . 
@@86483315 <p> The head of the Knesset 's Foreign Affairs and Defense Committee says the details of an emerging prisoner swap with the Hamas terror group in Gaza are " outrageous " and will bring hundreds of terrorists " back into circulation . " <p> Hamas is currently believed to hold two Israeli civilians , Avera Avraham Mengistu and Hisham al-Sayed , who entered Gaza of their own accord in 2014-2015 , and the remains of two Israeli soldiers , Sergeant First Class Oron Shaul and Lieutenant Hadar Goldin , killed in action during the 2014 Gaza war . <p> Ostensible details of the deal were reported by Hebrew media in recent days , with unnamed Israeli officials saying that Israel will not allow murderers to be released , but that it is expected to include various gestures toward Gaza , including medical aid to help deal with coronavirus in the territory . <p> Derech Eretz MK Zvi Hauser , head of the powerful FADC , tweets that as part of his work " I have been privy to all the details . " <p> President Reuven Rivlin speaks to Bahraini @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ <p> " Peace is made between peoples and nations , " Rivlin says . " I am full of hope that the Palestinians will also take steps to build mutual trust , cooperation and peace . " <p> Earlier in the day Rivlin hosted a delegation of " opinion leaders " from Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates , in Israel to foster cooperation between the peoples following the recent normalization accords . <p> President Reuven Riblin hosts a delegation of Bahrainis and Emiratis in Jerusalem , December 14 , 2020 ( Mark Neyman/GPO ) <p> US presidential electors are meeting across the United States today to formally choose Joe Biden as the nation 's next president . <p> Today is the day set by law for the meeting of the Electoral College . In reality , electors meet in all 50 states and the District of Columbia to cast their ballots . The results will be sent to Washington and tallied in a January 6 joint session of Congress over which Vice President Mike Pence will preside . <p> The electors ' votes have drawn more attention than usual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the election and continued to make baseless allegations of fraud . <p> Biden is planning to address the nation tonight , after the electors have voted . Trump , meanwhile , is clinging to his false claims that he won the election , undermining Biden 's presidency even before it begins . <p> What could be the main event in Georgia 's twin US Senate runoffs -- early in-person voting -- begins today . <p> More than half of the record 5 million votes in the November 3 general election were cast during its two-week early voting period . Early in-person voting could be even more important in these January 5 runoffs because of the short time frame for voters to request and send back ballots by mail , as the two races decide which party will control the US Senate . <p> " It 's very important , " Democrat Raphael Warnock , who is challenging Republican US Sen. Kelly Loeffler in one of the races , said Friday after a speech to labor union canvassers . " It 's how we won in the general and it 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " <p> Democratic challenger for US Senate Raphael Warnock speaks during a debate with Republican US Senator Kelly Loeffler in Atlanta , December 6 , 2020 . ( AP Photo/Ben Gray , Pool ) <p> No one expects turnout to be as high in the Warnock-Loeffler contest or the race between US Sen. David Perdue and Democrat Jon Ossoff . But Bernard Fraga , an Emory University professor who studies voting , says overall turnout could reach 4 million . <p> MKs Yoaz Hendel and Zvi Hauser of the tiny Derech Eretz faction say they will resign their governmental positions -- though not their Knesset seats -- if the parliament does not disband in the coming days . <p> " We will not support any further compromises , " the two say in a statement . <p> " We support disbanding the Knesset and returning to the voter in order to replace Netanyahu . If the coalition decides on another extension of the deadline to pass a budget we will resign our positions . " <p> Hendel is currently communications minister , while Hauser heads the Knesset 's powerful Foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two would be quitting . <p> Then Blue and White party members MKs Yoaz Hendel , Zvi Hauser seen in the Knesset in Jerusalem , on April 29 , 2019 . ( Noam Revkin Fenton/Flash90 ) <p> Hendel and Hauser were originally part of Moshe Ya'alon 's Telem faction of Blue and White . When the alliance broke up earlier this year , with Benny Gantz heading to the coalition and Ya'alon and Yair Lapid to the opposition , the two MKs broke away to form Derech Eretz and joined Gantz 's bloc in the government . <p> They have announced in recent days they plan to join breakaway Likud MK Gideon Sa'ar New Hope party for the next election . <p> Iran will not accept any US preconditions to a return to the 2015 nuclear deal , and issues including Iran 's missile program and regional affairs are " non-negotiable , " Iranian President Hassan Rouhani says in a speech . <p> He also says he will not allow any delay to the end of sanctions on Iran . He may be referring to the so-called sunset clauses of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advanced centrifuges until 2025 and the cap on its uranium stockpile until 2030 . <p> Iran has breached both aspects of the deal since the US pulled out of the accord . <p> " Some people want to delay the process but we will not consent to it whether it be for one hour , " he says . <p> In this photo released by the official website of the office of the Iranian Presidency , President Hassan Rouhani speaks in a meeting in Tehran , Iran , Dec. 9 , 2020 ( Iranian Presidency Office via AP ) <p> " Iran has repeatedly made it clear that it will also abide by its full commitments if all of the participants to the agreement live up to their full commitments . " <p> US President-elect Joe Biden has said he plans to reenter the deal when he enters office . He has not set the issue of limits to Iran 's ballistic missile program and regional intervention as a precondition to this , but has said he will seek dialog on the matter . <p> The UN rights chief voices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ figure Ruhollah Zam , and urges Tehran to halt its " alarming and increasing " use of the death penalty . <p> " I am appalled at the execution in Iran on 12 December of Ruhollah Zam , " Michelle Bachelet says in a statement . " His death sentence and execution by hanging are emblematic of a pattern of forced confessions extracted under torture and broadcast on state media being used as a basis to convict people . " <p> Iran 's President Hassan Rouhani says Israel was behind the killing of a scientist who founded the Islamic Republic 's military nuclear program in the 2000s in an effort to ignite regional violence in the last days of President Trump 's administration . <p> Rouhani 's comments in a news conference mark the first time he has directly accused the Jewish state of carrying out the killing of Mohsen Fakhrizadeh late last month . <p> A photo released by the semi-official Fars News Agency shows the scene where Mohsen Fakhrizadeh was killed in Absard , a small city just east of the capital , Tehran , Iran , Friday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ AP ) ; insert : Mohsen Fakhrizadeh in an undated photo ( Courtesy ) <p> Israel , long suspected of killing Iranian nuclear scientists over the last decade , has repeatedly declined to comment on the attack . <p> " Waging instability and war in the final days of the Trump administration was the main aim of the Zionist regime in the assassination , " Rouhani says . <p> Rouhani vows to avenge the killing but says his country will not allow Israel to decide the " time or venue " of any retaliatory action . He says Iran will not allow instability in the region . <p> The Jerusalem District Court rejects a demand by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's attorneys to cancel the indictment against him due to issues with its filing process . <p> However , the court does order prosecutors to significantly amend the Case 4000 file to clearly distinguish Netanyahu from his family members as well as suspect Shaul Elovitch from his wife . <p> Lawyers had complained that Netanyahu had in many cases been grouped with his family in supposed demands from Elovitch to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Walla . They said it was not clear why Netanyahu must answer for demands allegedly made by his wife or son . <p> The court said prosecutors must make clear who made the demands in every case , and whether the prime minister was supposedly aware of the requests , or involved in them . <p> It also tells prosecutors to provide detailed information about the alleged contacts between Netanyahu and the Elovitches and the benefits they gave him . The premier 's lawyers had asserted that the information provided was not detailed enough . <p> The U.S. strongly condemns Iran 's unjust , barbaric execution of Ruhollah Zam , an Iranian journalist kidnapped abroad by the regime . Zam exposed the brutality and corruption of the regime , which has killed or arrested more than 860 journalists in its 41-year reign of terror . <p> The largest vaccination campaign in US history gets underway as health workers in select hospitals roll up their sleeves for shots to protect them from COVID-19 and start beating back the pandemic -- a day of optimism even as the nation 's death toll @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Relieved , " says critical case nurse Sandra Lindsay , the first to get the shot at Long Island Jewish Medical Center in New York . <p> A fuel tanker that suffered an explosion off the western coast of Saudi Arabia earlier today was attacked by an explosives-laden boat , state media reports , calling it a " terrorist " attack . <p> " A fuel transport ship , anchored in the fuel terminal in Jeddah , was attacked by an explosive-laden boat in the early hours of this morning , " the official Saudi Press Agency says , citing an energy ministry spokesman . <p> It does not say who was behind the assault . <p> The Singapore-flagged BW Rhine saw all 22 sailors on board escape without injury , the BW Group said in a statement . The company warned it was possible some oil had leaked out from the site of the blast . <p> Japan 's space agency says it has confirmed the presence of black soil samples inside a capsule that the spacecraft Hayabusa2 brought back from a distant asteroid last week . <p> The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diameter , was dropped by Hayabusa2 from space onto a spot in a sparsely populated Australian desert on December 6 . It arrived in Japan last Tuesday for research that will hopefully provide insights into the origins of the solar system and life on Earth . <p> The capsule in the Australian outback . <p> Magnificent images have been released from today 's discovery and recovery of the #Hayabusa2 sample return capsule in the Woomera Prohibited Area , South Australia . <p> Blue and White party leader Benny Gantz says he will remove Derech Eretz MKs Zvi Hauser and Yoaz Hendel from their positions in the coalition , after their announcement they will join with Gideon Sa'ar 's party and their statement earlier today that they will resign from the posts if new elections are not called . <p> " Hauser and Hendel have chosen their new political home , and their time holding positions on behalf of Blue and White has thus come to an end , " Gantz says in a statement . <p> Hendel is removed as communications minister effective immediately . Hauser 's removal as head @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bit more time , as it demands a vote in the Knesset . <p> Knesset members Yoaz Hendel ( L ) and Zvi Hauser ( R ) seen at the Knesset , ahead of the opening session of the new parliament on April 29 , 2019 . ( Noam Revkin Fenton/Flash90 ) <p> The United States for the first time accuses Iran of direct involvement in the " probable death " of former FBI agent Bob Levinson , who vanished 13 years ago , and imposes sanctions on two intelligence agents . <p> Releasing the finding a month before President-elect Joe Biden takes office , Donald Trump 's administration urges his successor to prioritize the release of at least three Americans in Iranian custody as his team expects to resume diplomacy with the US adversary . <p> Still image from a November 2010 video showing Robert Levinson , which was received by his family . ( YouTube : Help Bob Levinson ) <p> " The government of Iran pledged to provide assistance in bringing Bob Levinson home , but it has never followed through , " FBI Director Christopher Wray @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Iranian intelligence officers -- with the approval of senior Iranian officials -- were involved in Bob 's abduction and detention . " <p> An alligator that some believe belonged to Adolf Hitler has been taxidermied and put on display in Moscow following the reptile 's death at age 84 . <p> The Darwin Museum says the alligator named Saturn was put on public display several months after the Moscow Zoo donated his remains . " The installation of Saturn in the permanent exhibition is the culmination of six months of work by our taxidermists and the entire museum , " it says in a statement . <p> In this photo taken on Tuesday , Feb. 19 , 2019 , the alligator Saturn swims in water at the Moscow Zoo , in Moscow , Russia ( AP Photo/Mikhail Bibichkov ) <p> Born in the United States in 1936 , Saturn was moved to the Berlin zoo where he escaped on November 23 , 1943 , after a bombing raid that killed several of his fellow reptiles . In 1946 , he was found by British soldiers who handed him over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Moscow in July 1946 , the rumors began circulating that he had been part of Adolf Hitler 's personal collection , the zoo said . <p> Following his decision to fire Communications Minister Yoaz Hendel of Derech Eretz , Defense Minister Benny Gantz , who leads the Blue and White bloc in the coalition -- which includes Blue and White , Derech Eretz and Labor -- will serve in that post as well , his office says . <p> The High Court of Justice has rejected a petition by two Likud MKs who sought to annul the approval of 61 new judges at a meeting of the Judicial Appointments Committee that they boycotted last week . <p> Transportation Minister MK Miri Regev and MK Osnat Mark , alongside Derech Eretz MK Zvi Hauser , had refused to attend the meeting , complaining of the plan to appoint judges opposed by right-wingers . They had believed the panel could not legally convene without them , but legal advisers in the Justice Ministry ruled that the meeting could go forward . <p> The High Court rules that the meeting was indeed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Court in Jerusalem on October 26 , 2020 . ( Yonatan Sindel/Flash90 ) <p> Israel 's Institute for Biological Research says it has successfully completed the first stage of its coronavirus vaccine and plans to expand its trials to some 1,000 volunteers for the next phase . <p> The first stage tested the Defense Ministry laboratory 's vaccine on 80 people out of Jerusalem 's Hadassah Hospitals and Ramat Gan 's Sheba Medical Center . <p> " During the first phase , no significant side effects were identified , and two expert committees , both internal and external , recommended the approval of the second phase . As such , the institute completed all the necessary preparations and is ready for the immediate launch of the second phase , " the Defense Ministry says . <p> Vials of a potential coronavirus vaccine are seen on an assembly line , in a photograph released by the Israel Institute for Biological Research on October 25 , 2020 . ( Israel Defense Ministry ) <p> The second phase of the clinical trials will begin in the coming days and will take place over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This stage of the trial will again begin at the Sheba and Hadassah hospitals , but will gradually expand to other medical centers throughout the country . <p> " The scientists of the IIBR are Israel 's ' elite unit , ' and have taken on an extremely important task -- saving human lives . I see great importance in the development of an Israeli vaccine that will continue to serve Israeli society for years to come , " Defense Minister Benny Gantz says . <p> The Wisconsin Supreme Court rejects President Donald Trump 's lawsuit attempting to overturn his loss to Democrat Joe Biden in the battleground state , ending Trump 's legal challenges in state court about an hour before the Electoral College was to meet to cast the state 's 10 votes for Biden . <p> The ruling came after the court held arguments Saturday , the same day a federal judge dismissed another Trump lawsuit seeking to overturn his loss in the state . Trump appealed that ruling . <p> Trump sought to have more than 221,000 ballots disqualified in Dane and Milwaukee counties , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to disqualify absentee ballots cast early and in-person , saying there was n't a proper written request made for the ballots ; absentee ballots cast by people who claimed " indefinitely confined " status ; absentee ballots collected by poll workers at Madison parks ; and absentee ballots where clerks filled in missing information on ballot envelopes . <p> In this Nov. 7 , 2020 file photo , supporters react after it was announced that President-elect Joe Biden defeated President Trump at a rally in Milwaukee ( AP Photo/Morry Gash , File ) <p> Liberal Justice Jill Karofsky blasted Trumps ' case during Saturday 's hearing , saying it " smacks of racism " and was " un-American . " Conservative justices voiced some concerns about how certain ballots were cast , while also questioning whether they could or should disqualify votes only in two counties . <p> A former Israeli consul general to New England and Boston will be the next executive director of J Street Israel . <p> Nadav Tamir , a longtime diplomat who most recently served as director of international affairs at the Peres Center for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Israel . <p> " I 'm excited to be joining J Street at the dawn of a new era for American diplomacy , " Tamir says . " I 've been a fan of the organization since it was first founded during my time as consul in Boston , and I 'm so impressed with its growth since then . <p> Nadav Tamir in 2010 ( CC BY-SA Roni Yedidia/Wikimedia Commons ) <p> " I 'm looking forward to working with the team in Israel and in the US to advance policies that truly help secure Israel 's future as a democratic homeland for the Jewish people , living in peace and security alongside an independent Palestinian state . " <p> The United States imposes sanctions on Turkey 's military procurement agency after the NATO ally defiantly bought Russia 's S-400 air defense system . <p> " Today 's action sends a clear signal that the United States will fully implement US law and will not tolerate significant transactions with Russia 's defense and intelligence sectors , " Secretary of State Mike Pompeo says in a statement . <p> Military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ systems , are unloaded from a Russian transport aircraft at Murted military airport in Ankara , Turkey , July 12 , 2019 . ( Turkish Defense Ministry via AP , Pool ) <p> The Knesset passes a bill to prevent a parent from having guardianship over a child if that parent is convicted of murdering or attempting to murder the child 's other parent , or if that parent raped or sexually abused one of his children . <p> An indicted person will have guardianship rights temporarily revoked , while a conviction will lead to permanent revocation , the new law states . <p> Moroccan authorities have stopped a demonstration against the normalization agreement with Israel from taking place in the capital Rabat , Reuters reports . <p> The news agency says large contingents of police spread out near the parliament with anti-riot gear and water cannons and stopped protesters from congregating there . <p> Security forces block an avenue in front of the parliament building to stop a demonstration against normalizing relations with Israel , in the Moroccan capital Rabat on December 14 , 2020 ( FADEL SENNA / @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rejected the pan to establish formal ties with the Jewish state , with one organization denouncing it as " Zionist infiltration . " <p> The religious branch of the co-ruling conservative Islamist Justice and Development Party ( PJD ) , called the Unity and Reform Movement ( MUR ) , said in a statement that the move toward an agreement with Israel was " deplorable . " <p> Israel 's health maintenance organizations will officially start vaccinations of the general public next Wednesday , December 23 , they say . <p> Further announcements are expected on who can come in to be vaccinated , with the elderly and other at-risk populations expected to go first . <p> It 's been a tough year . <p> 2020 was filled with uncertainty for nearly everyone , in Israel and around the world . You chose to read The Times of Israel during this difficult period - and for that we are very grateful . <p> We hope you found ToI one of the meaningful ways tostay connected to the people and places that you care about during this year of enforced distancing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to continue to provide you with trustworthy news and views on Israel and the Jewish world . If you are financially capable , will you help us achieve that by joining The Times of Israel Community today ? <p> We 're really pleased that you 've read X Times of Israel articles in the past month . <p> That 's why we come to work every day - to provide discerning readers like you with must-read coverage of Israel and the Jewish world . <p> So now we have a request . Unlike other news outlets , we have n't put up a paywall . But as the journalism we do is costly , we invite readers for whom The Times of Israel has become important to help support our work by joining The Times of Israel Community . <p> For as little as $6 a month you can help support our quality journalism while enjoying The Times of Israel AD-FREE , as well as accessing exclusive content available only to Times of Israel Community members . <p> By signing up , you agree to our terms You hereby accept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and you agree to receive the latest news &amp; offers from The Times of Israel and its partners or ad sponsors . <p> A fuel tanker that suffered an explosion off the western coast of Saudi Arabia earlier today was attacked by an explosives-laden boat , state media reports , calling it a " terrorist " attack . <p> " A fuel transport ship , anchored in the fuel terminal in Jeddah , was attacked by an explosive-laden boat in the early hours of this morning , " the official Saudi Press Agency says , citing an energy ministry spokesman . <p> It does not say who was behind the assault . <p> The Singapore-flagged BW Rhine saw all 22 sailors on board escape without injury , the BW Group said in a statement . The company warned it was possible some oil had leaked out from the site of the blast . 
@@86486616 <p> A coronavirus test site at Grand Canyon University in Arizona on Saturday.Credit ... Adriana Zehbrauskas for The New York Times <p> Officials across the United States on Wednesday reported the highest daily number for new coronavirus since the pandemic began , as well as the most deaths in a single day . <p> New infections were put at 244,365 , and deaths at 3,607 -- nearly 500 more than the record set only a week ago . The previous case record , 236,800 , was set last Friday ( though a reporting anomaly in Texas made it appear still higher . ) <p> The latest figures capped day on which health experts warned Americans , buoyed by the rollout of a vaccination campaign , that it is far too soon to abandon common-sense precautions for halting the spread of the virus . <p> The first shots of a vaccine made by Pfizer and BioNTech were administered on Monday , and another vaccine , made by Moderna , is expected to receive emergency authorization from the Food and Drug Administration this week . <p> Both were highly effective in preventing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before a broad-enough swath of the population can be vaccinated . Officials are also scrambling to combat skepticism about the vaccines . <p> " As wonderful as this is , because it 's been an extraordinary manifestation of the fruits of science done in a very rapid way , it 's also bittersweet , " Dr. Anthony S. Fauci , the nation 's top infectious disease expert , said of the country 's split-screen reality on " CBS This Morning " on Wednesday . <p> As the doses are distributed throughout the states , the virus continues to engulf the country . The death toll passed 300,000 in the United States on Monday , more than any other country , just as the first injections of the vaccine were going into the arms of frontline health care workers . Nearly 3,000 new deaths were reported on Tuesday , while new cases exceeded 200,000 . The seven-day average of new cases is up 28 percent from two weeks ago . <p> Hospitalizations have surpassed 112,000 , and I.C.U . units in some areas are close to capacity . <p> " We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " Dr. Fauci said , " but it is not over yet . We have a ways to go . We have to abide by the public health measures that we talk about all the time . " <p> Those public health measures , of course , include social distancing , wearing masks , avoiding travel and indoor gatherings and frequent hand washing . Dr. Fauci called them " the bridge to get to the vaccine , which is going to get us out of this . " <p> Then there is the question of persuading people to take a vaccine . Dr. Fauci noted that some people are hesitant because of the speed with which the vaccines were developed . But he argued that the speed was a reflection of " extraordinary scientific advances in vaccine platform technology " and enormous investment . <p> " If we do that , we will get a veil , or an umbrella , of herd immunity over the population that would dramatically diminish the dynamics of the outbreak . When we do that , then that would be the end of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to do , but we certainly are on the right track . " <p> Adm . Brett P. Giroir , who heads up national testing efforts , also stressed the need to continue protective measures on Wednesday , urging Americans to wear masks and avoid travel and crowds over the holidays . <p> He noted that the Midwest appeared to have turned a corner as case rates improve . But outbreaks continue to escalate in the Northeast , the South and on the West Coast . <p> " We are still at a dangerous and critical part of this pandemic and tens of thousands of American lives are at stake really every week , " he said on CNN 's " New Day , " even as " the end of the pandemic is in sight . " <p> " But until we get a few more months down the road , do your best . Save lives , save American lives , save global lives , just by doing these simple measures . If you do that , we 're going to be in really good shape . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thousands of more casualties in this country that we can avoid . " <p> Late Wednesday , officials said that the U.S. interior secretary , David Bernhardt , had tested positive for the virus . An agency spokesman , Nicholas Goodwin , said in statement that the Mr. Bernhardt " is currently asymptomatic " and in isolation . <p> The secretary learned he had tested positive ahead of a cabinet meeting at the White House and did not attend , an administration official said . The Interior Department has canceled its holiday party , which had been scheduled for Thursday . <p> More than 100,000 face masks have hit the market . They come in a variety of colors , designs and materials . They are a pandemic necessity . But what they do n't come with is a label that says how well they block infectious particles -- a fundamental omission that has frustrated public health officials . <p> That could soon change , however . A set of federal standards for minimum filter efficiency and labels indicating which products meet them are being developed for the bewildering marketplace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expected to be made public in January , after months without federal oversight of the quality of the masks and face coverings that have become critical to the fight to prevent the spread of the virus . The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health has been creating guidelines with the industry standards organization , ASTM International ( formerly the American Society for Testing and Materials ) . The institute is a division of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention . <p> " By having a standard in place you will be able to know what level of protection is being achieved and you 'll have a consistent way of evaluating these products , " said Maryann D'Alessandro , director of the institute 's National Personal Protective Technology Laboratory . <p> The Food and Drug Administration released an emergency measure in April , noting that it would not take action against companies selling masks to the general public . Although the agency warned that some products " may or may not meet fluid barrier or filtration efficiency levels , " the warning did little to disturb the market . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ masks should be fitted , at least two layers of cloth , not made of stretchy materials , etc . Instead , there was a free-for-all , " said Diana Zuckerman , president of the National Center for Health Research , a nonprofit health policy group . <p> The C.D.C. has updated its guidance on masks on numerous occasions , pointing out that tightly woven , multilayered fabric offers better protection than single-layer , loosely knit masks . <p> Members of a standards development working group of federal and industry officials have suggested manufacturers adopt one high and one lower filtration requirement for masks . This would give a measure of a product 's efficiency in filtering particles measuring 0.3 microns , generally the most penetrative particles , which are standard for the institute 's tests . " Breathability " is also another standard members are suggesting to rate masks and face coverings . <p> In order to display on mask packaging that the contents meet the ASTM standard , manufacturers must have their products tested by an accredited laboratory and show that their masks provide a reasonable fit to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however . <p> " What we have here is a really good standard , " said Dale Pfriem , president of Protective Equipment Consulting Services and a member of the standards development working group addressing mask guidelines . " Manufacturers will have something to design their products to , and something to put in their marketing materials and packaging , and consumers will have a sense of confidence . " <h> Advertisement <h> ' A Heroic Place : ' Elmhurst Hospital Workers Get Coronavirus Vaccine <h> Two staff members of Elmhurst Hospital in Queens , a public hospital hit hard during the city 's spring coronavirus crisis , became the first at the hospital to be vaccinated Wednesday . <p> " We 're here at Elmhurst Hospital , a heroic place , a heroic place , a place where something extraordinary happened . One of the toughest battles anywhere in the United States of America against the coronavirus happened right here . But Elmhurst Hospital held , Elmhurst Hospital held the line . The men and women who worked here , the health care heroes , did an extraordinary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Elmhurst Hospital . We 're celebrating such an important moment here , the first-ever vaccination at a New York City public hospital . And there 's no more fitting place than here . This is the place where it should be because this is the heroic place . " applause " Yeah , I feel very privileged to be one of the first to get the vaccine . I know there are people that are more front line and more deserving . So my message to the mayor and everybody , I hope that everybody can be vaccinated quickly . Quite frankly , I do n't know a health care worker in this hospital who does n't want this vaccine immediately . " " I hope everybody , you know , takes the shot , you know , so we can all get back together . " <p> Two staff members of Elmhurst Hospital in Queens , a public hospital hit hard during the city 's spring coronavirus crisis , became the first at the hospital to be vaccinated Wednesday.CreditCredit ... Victor J. Blue for The New York Times <p> @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as hospitals filled and deaths mounted , Elmhurst Hospital in Queens bore the brunt of the crisis . A public hospital near the neighborhoods hit hardest by the coronavirus in the spring , Elmhurst quickly became overrun with patients and ran short of beds , equipment and staff . <p> On Wednesday morning , the hospital entered a new , brighter phase , when two employees became Elmhurst 's first to receive a Covid-19 vaccine . <p> The employees -- Veronica Delgado , a lead physician assistant in the hospital 's emergency department , and William Kelly , who works in environmental services -- both said they were thrilled . <p> A room full of city employees and hospital workers applauded as the shots were administered . <p> " This is a standing ovation , " Mayor Bill de Blasio said as he looked on . " It does n't get better than this . " <p> Since the city 's first vaccinations outside a clinical trial took place at another Queens hospital , more than 1,600 health care workers have received a first dose , Mr. de Blasio @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wednesday that the state had received 87,750 doses of the Pfizer vaccine so far , with 80,000 additional ones expected in the coming days for nursing home residents and employees . He said the state expected 346,000 doses of the Moderna vaccine once it was federally authorized . <p> Mr. Cuomo also said that he expected the state would likely move into its second phase of vaccine distribution , targeting essential workers and high-risk members of the public , by late January . <p> In preparation , the state would direct insurers to cover the costs of vaccination . Federal officials working as part of Operation Warp Speed -- the multiagency effort to quickly make a coronavirus vaccine available to Americans -- have also said their goal was to make vaccines free for all Americans . <p> " In New York State , no person will pay a penny for a vaccination , " Mr. Cuomo said . <p> Both Mr. Cuomo and Mr. de Blasio have cheered the vaccine as a positive development at a time when more people have been testing positive and growing ill in New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another shutdown . However , Mr. Cuomo , not the mayor , has the power to impose a shutdown . <p> Mr. de Blasio said that over the last week , an average of 5.71 percent of the city 's coronavirus tests were coming back positive , a rate that was " higher than we want it to be . " <p> " Hospitalizations keep increasing , and I 'm worried about that , " the mayor said on Wednesday . <p> Mr. Cuomo also said that the rise in hospitalizations was troubling , particularly in areas upstate . To address the issue , the state 's health commissioner sent a letter to hospitals directing them to start " crisis management mode " and directing overburdened hospitals to shift patients to facilities that have available beds . Statewide , hospitalizations topped 6,000 , Mr. Cuomo said . The figure peaked in April when the state neared 19,000 hospitalizations . <p> The strategy was reminiscent of one needed in the city 's hospitals in the spring , when Elmhurst Hospital was reaching capacity but thousands of hospital beds were available in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city 's hospitals were prepared to handle the surge , including at Elmhurst . <p> Dr. Mitchell Katz , the head of Health and Hospitals , the agency that oversees the city 's public hospitals , said there were just 280 patients in them now who have the virus , compared with nearly 4,000 patients at the peak in the spring . <p> The emails Joyce Warshaw received as mayor of Dodge City , Kan. , were hostile enough last month , when the city was merely considering passing a mask mandate . <p> But then the mandate was passed , and USA Today ran an article last week about Dodge City 's struggles with the coronavirus -- and the hostility just boiled over , Ms. Warshaw said . <p> " We 're coming to get you , " read one message . " You 'll burn in hell , " said another . The word " murder " was used several times , she said . <p> Fearing for her family 's safety and her own , Ms. Warshaw , 69 , resigned as mayor on Tuesday , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ <p> " I can get past words , " Ms. Warshaw , a retired elementary school principal , said in an interview on Wednesday . " But I think right now our nation is seeing so much divisiveness and so much inappropriate bullying that is accepted , and it just worried me . I do n't know if these people would act out on their words . " <p> Ms. Warshaw 's experience provides a stark example of the challenges that public officials have had to navigate amid the emotional and political battle over the virus . Leaders of local and state health departments have faced harassment , personal insults and death threats over their roles in imposing virus restrictions . Political leaders have also come under fire . <p> Ms. Warshaw said she understood that people may disagree , but she was disheartened by the lack of civility . Even when she tried to explain things to critics , they would dismiss her and tell her she was lying , she said . She hopes that her resignation might helpsome of the anger over the mask mandate the city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of the state mask order . <p> One in seven residents in that county have tested positive for the virus since the pandemic began , making it one of the hardest-hit counties in the country . Several of Ms. Warshaw 's relatives , including her daughter , have contracted the virus , and her aunt died from Covid-19 , she said . <p> " If all of us could have a little compassion for society as a whole instead of looking at our individual want or belief , " Ms. Warshaw said , " we could have curbed this pandemic earlier . " <p> Pfizer 's trial in the United States involving more than 40,000 people did not find any serious adverse events caused by the vaccine , although many participants did experience aches , fevers and other side effects . Credit ... Grant Hindsley for The New York Times <p> Two health care workers at the same hospital in Alaska developed reactions just minutes after receiving the new coronavirus vaccine this week . One was expected to remain hospitalized until Thursday . <p> Health officials said that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were sharing the information for the sake of transparency . <p> The first worker , a middle-aged woman who had no history of allergies , had an anaphylactic reaction that began 10 minutes after she received the vaccine at Bartlett Regional Hospital in Juneau on Tuesday , a hospital official said . She experienced a rash over her face and torso , shortness of breath and an elevated heart rate . <p> Dr. Lindy Jones , the hospital 's emergency department medical director , said the worker was first given a shot of epinephrine , a standard treatment for severe allergic reactions . Her symptoms subsided but then re-emerged , and she was treated with steroids and an epinephrine drip . <p> When doctors tried to stop the drip , her symptoms re-emerged yet again , so the woman was moved to the intensive care unit , observed throughout the night , then weaned off the drip early Wednesday morning , Dr. Jones said . <p> The second worker received his shot on Wednesday and developed eye puffiness , lightheadedness and a scratchy throat 10 minutes after the injection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken to the emergency room and treated with epinephrine , Pepcid and Benadryl , although the hospital said the reaction was not considered anaphylaxis . The worker was back to normal within an hour and released . <p> The hospital , which had administered 144 total doses as of Wednesday night , said both workers did not want their experiences to have a negative impact on others lining up for the vaccine . <p> " We have no plans to change our vaccine schedule , dosing or regimen , " Dr. Anne Zink , Alaska 's chief medical officer , said in a statement . <h> Advertisement <p> A coronavirus testing site in Monroe , Conn. , this month . Several cities planned to temporarily shut down testing facilities because of the weather.Credit ... Dave Sanders for The New York Times <p> As a powerful winter storm raced up the East Coast on Wednesday , several major cities planned to temporarily shut down coronavirus testing facilities . <p> In Baltimore , the city health department postponed testing at two outdoor testing sites on Wednesday and Thursday , although several sites @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We would urge residents to remain safe while they travel to the testing site , and would encourage residents to dress warmly should they need to wait in line , " the city department said in a written statement . <p> Hartford HealthCare said its nine drive-through testing sites in Connecticut would be closed on Thursday , and two city-sponsored mobile testing sites in Boston will also be closed . In Rhode Island , Gov . Gina Raimondo warned residents that test scheduling on the state 's online portal would be " temporarily paused " for Thursday " to ensure the safety of Rhode Islanders . " Some outdoor sites may close , and some indoor or covered sites will stay open , she said . <p> In Philadelphia , where the snowfall could reach up to eight inches , city testing clinics remained open on Wednesday , and officials expected that they would be open Thursday as well , said James Garrow , a spokesman for the city department of health . <p> He stressed " the need to call ahead to make sure that folks ' local testing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mixed with saline at a hospital in Denver on Wednesday.Credit ... Benjamin Rasmussen for The New York Times <p> A little bit of " over fill " in vials that contain multiple doses of a drug is normal , but this was different . <p> When pharmacists on the staff of the University of Utah began diluting the new coronavirus vaccine with saline on Tuesday and drawing it into syringes , they were surprised how much was left over , said Erin Fox , the senior pharmacy director of drug information and support services there . <p> " They initially thought that they had incorrectly done it because there was so much left in the vial after they pulled up the five doses , " Ms. Fox said . " They sent us a picture and were like , can we use the extra ? " <p> On Wednesday , they got their answer : yes . <p> In a statement , the Food and Drug Administration said that " given the public health emergency , " it was acceptable to use every full dose left over in each vial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which developed the vaccine with BioNTech , to determine " the best path forward . " <p> It was a bit of good news for a country battling a pandemic . The newly released vaccine is in short supply , for the moment , and every drop counts . <p> The University of Utah 's experience was not unique . As boxes of the vaccine began arriving around the country this week , hospital pharmacists discovered that the glass vials that are supposed to hold five doses contained enough for a sixth , or even a seventh . <p> The news prompted a flurry of excited exchanges on Twitter and pharmacy message boards as hospital workers considered the tantalizing possibility that the limited supply of desperately needed vaccine might be stretched to reach more people . <p> But it also set off a wave of confusion and debate over whether to use the extra doses , or to throw them out . Some did just that . <p> Anna Legreid Dopp , senior director of clinical guidelines and quality improvement at the American Society of Health-System Pharmacists , said hospitals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make sure that recipients will have a second shot waiting for them . That may be somewhat challenging . <p> Since the inoculations began last Tuesday , hospitals have distributed some 137,897 vaccines across the country , according to the minister , Nadhim Zahawi . He noted that the figure did not take into account shots administered by primary care doctors , the next phase of the rollout that is intended to reach a broader stretch of the population , which began on Monday . <p> The Pfizer-BioNTech shots are being prioritized in Britain for health care workers , those 80 years of age or older , and workers and residents at nursing homes . Those who have received the first dose require a second shot after 21 days to enjoy the full benefits of the vaccine . <p> Britain had an initial batch of 800,000 doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine , which is enough to vaccinate 400,000 people , but the vaccine 's complex cold storage requirements make it difficult to transport and store in smaller batches , so the rollout has been limited far . <p> Mr. Zahawi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said that the government would begin to publish weekly statistics starting next week . In the days since Britain began distributing the vaccine , the United States and Canada have also begun inoculation campaigns , and several other countries have approved the Pfizer-BioNTech shots for emergency use . <p> Emergency approval for the vaccine in the European Union could come as early as Dec. 21 , when the European Medicines Agency meets . Ursula von der Leyen , the president of the European Commission , told the European Parliament on Wednesday that vaccinating enough of the population would be a " huge task . " She encouraged the 27 member states of the bloc to begin on the same day . <p> " As we have gone in unity through this pandemic , let us start the eradication of this horrible virus together and united , " she said . <p> Here 's what else to know from around the world : <p> Germany entered a nationwide lockdown on Wednesday that saw schools and nonessential businesses close through at least Jan. 10 , as the country battles to bring down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 27,728 new cases of the coronavirus recorded on Wednesday and 952 additional deaths in the country , according to a New York Times database . <p> South Korea reported a daily record of 1,078 new coronavirus cases on Wednesday , nearly all of them locally transmitted , the Yonhap news agency reported . The country 's health authorities were deciding whether to raise the national Covid-19 alert system to the highest of five tiers -- a move that would shutter schools and reduce the maximum size of gatherings to 10 , from 49 . South Korea kept its caseload low for much of the year but has been grappling with a fresh wave of infections . <p> Almost half of Singapore 's migrant workers , or 152,000 people , were infected with the coronavirus this year , new government data showed . By comparison , the rest of the population recorded fewer than 4,000 cases . The Singaporean economy is heavily dependent on migrant workers , and the virus spread rapidly through their crowded dormitories in the spring . The data released Monday by the Ministry of Health , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dormitories , showed more than 98,000 workers tested positive for coronavirus antibodies , and more than 54,000 workers had received positive coronavirus tests and had already been reported . The government has been criticized over its treatment of the workers , who continue to be mostly confined to their dormitories even as the rest of Singapore prepares to enter its final phase of reopening later this month . <h> Advertisement <p> Gov . Michelle Lujan Grisham signed a $330 million economic relief package in November that includes aid for small businesses and out-of-work New Mexicans.Credit ... New Mexico Office of the Governor , via Associated Press <p> With Congress wrangling for months over aid proposals , New Mexico has stepped in and begun distributing one-time payments of $1,200 each to about 130,000 unemployed residents to help ease persistent economic hardship in the state . <p> The payments are going to people who qualify for unemployment benefits or whose benefits have expired . Democrats and Republicans in the State Legislature came together in a special session in late November to support the payments as part of a $330 million relief package @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , commended the bipartisan action in a statement after the legislation was approved , saying that the payments were needed because " the economic pain caused by the spread of the virus is felt in every corner of New Mexico . " <p> The downturn has weighed heavily on industries like tourism and oil production that are important in New Mexico , one of the country 's least wealthy states . In Albuquerque , the state 's largest city , a similar distribution of $2,000 checks ran out of funds in nine hours , after thousands more people applied for the relief than the program could accommodate . <p> The unemployment rate in New Mexico was 8.1 percent in October , compared with 4.8 percent in the same month a year earlier . Nationally , the rate was 6.7 percent in November . <p> Most of the money for the payments comes from funds allocated to New Mexico , but not yet spent , under the CARES Act , the federal stimulus legislation passed as the pandemic 's first wave surged in the spring . The state has until Dec. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Drug Administration on Wednesday granted an emergency authorization to Abbott Laboratories for an at-home version of its rapid antigen test for the coronavirus , the BinaxNOW.Credit ... Abbott Laboratories , via Associated Press <p> The Food and Drug Administration on Wednesday granted an emergency authorization to Abbott Laboratories for an at-home version of its rapid coronavirus test , the BinaxNOW . The test is an antigen test , which are typically less accurate than laboratory tests . Still , the green light brings the number of available home tests for the virus to three . Of those , Abbott 's option is the cheapest , at $25 . <p> With a prescription from a health care provider , people with symptoms can swab their noses and receive results in about 15 or 20 minutes . The test , which requires some finagling of liquid chemicals , can only be performed with the supervision of a telehealth proctor . <p> People 15 years and older can perform the test on themselves . Children ages 4 and up can take the test if an adult collects the swab for them . <p> @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commissioner of the F.D.A. , praised the test and others like it for offering " greater testing flexibility and options . " Dr. Hahn and other experts have repeatedly stressed the need for more testing amid skyrocketing cases of the coronavirus , which continue to strain laboratory testing pipelines nationwide . <p> The home version of the BinaxNOW offers a faster path to a test result for people who are feeling sick . Within a matter of minutes , a positive result could usher those individuals into isolation to stop them from spreading the coronavirus to others . " That 's huge , " said Susan Butler-Wu , a clinical microbiologist at the University of Southern California 's Keck School of Medicine . <p> But tests like the BinaxNOW , which looks for bits of coronavirus proteins called antigens , are known to be less accurate than laboratory tests that hunt for coronavirus genetic material . In a study of 52 people , the BinaxNOW found 91.7 percent of the infections detected by a laboratory test for the coronavirus . Another set of data that included 460 people showed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by its laboratory counterpart . <p> In a statement , the F.D.A. noted that people who test negative with the BinaxNOW product are n't necessarily coronavirus-free , and might need to take another type of test -- perhaps a laboratory test -- to confirm their infection status . <p> Dr. Butler-Wu also noted that the test 's complicated instructions might raise some hurdles . The test cartridge itself works a little bit like a pregnancy test , providing results through a series of colored lines . But the person taking the test is expected to interpret their results with the help of a telehealth proctor , who then sends an electronic version of the results via a smartphone app . The results then have to be reported separately by the health care provider to public health authorities -- an extra step that could make it harder for experts to keep tabs on the virus 's spread . <p> A previous version of the BinaxNOW with a $5 price tag had been cleared by the agency for use in health care settings . An enormous stock of the tests was also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well as vulnerable populations , such as residents of nursing homes . <p> Government officials have repeatedly stressed that antigen tests can be used by people without symptoms , though the tests ' performance might dip in these populations . <p> Abbott plans to deliver about 30 million BinaxNOW at-home tests in the first quarter of 2021 , with an additional 90 million in the second quarter . <p> Last month , the F.D.A. gave a green light to the first fully at-home test , developed by Lucira Health , which also requires a prescription and is estimated to cost around $50 . Lucira 's test ca n't be used outside of a health care setting by children younger than 14 . <p> On Tuesday , a second at-home test , made by Australian company Ellume , gained clearance as well . Its $30 test functions similarly to Abbott 's , but can be used in people without symptoms and does not require a prescription . <p> Secretary of State Mike Pompeo visiting the White House on Friday.Credit ... Oliver Contreras for The New York Times <p> Secretary of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a person who tested positive for the coronavirus , the State Department said in a statement on Wednesday . Mr. Pompeo has so far tested negative , it said . <p> The statement did not identify the person who had contact with Mr. Pompeo , or when it happened , citing privacy concerns . It was not immediately clear what kind of test Mr. Pompeo had taken or when he was tested , nor whether he was showing any symptoms . Mr. Pompeo is being monitored by the State Department 's medical team , the statement said . <p> Tests taken too soon after exposure may return false negative results , because the virus has not yet had time to build up to detectable levels . People are thought to carry the largest quantity of virus around the time their symptoms appear , if they experience symptoms at all . <p> Mr. Pompeo has not traveled abroad since a 10-day trip to Europe and the Middle East last month . His last publicly reported meeting with a foreign official was in Washington last week with the Slovenian foreign minister @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the latest of the Trump administration 's most senior national security officials to have contact with people who tested positive . <p> Last month , the Pentagon was notified that Lithuania 's defense minister had tested positive after meeting Christopher C. Miller , the acting defense secretary , and other top military officials . One of them , Anthony J. Tata , a senior Pentagon adviser who is performing the duties of undersecretary of policy , tested positive for the virus afterward . <h> Advertisement <p> Palestinian officers in Gaza City on Saturday . New lockdown measures are in place as the number of coronavirus cases increases.Credit ... Mohammed Saber/EPA , via Shutterstock <p> JERUSALEM -- The number of severe Covid-19 cases in the blockaded Gaza Strip sharply increased over the past several days , raising concerns that hospitals could face overwhelming circumstances in the coming weeks . <p> The 200 intensive care beds at the two hospitals that the Hamas-run Health Ministry has tasked with treating coronavirus patients filled up earlier this week , forcing the authorities to transform parts of other medical institutions into Covid-19 wards . <p> @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said Rami al-Abadla , the director of the ministry 's infection control department , expressing concerns that virus cases in Gaza would surge even higher as the territory enters the thick of the winter . <p> In the past week , severe cases , which are typically when a patient 's oxygen level reaches 94 percent or less , have jumped from 103 to 190 , according to ministry data . And critical cases have climbed from 32 to 39 . Those patients could have respiratory failure , septic shock and/or multiple organ dysfunction . <p> And on Wednesday , the ministry announced that about 45 percent of the 2,088 virus test results it had received over the preceding 24 hours had come back positive -- a single day record . <p> The increase in severe and critical cases in Gaza , which has an overwhelmingly young population , comes even as the authorities have stepped up restrictions , like instituting nightly closures and weekend lockdowns . <p> The primary concern , Dr. al-Abadla said , was if the amount of severe and critical cases continue to grow , hospitals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and those facing other illnesses like heart failure and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . <p> He said a Norwegian organization was sending more oxygen tanks to Gaza , which could help about 23 more virus patients breathe , but he said it would likely take another two weeks before they arrive . <p> Hospitals in Gaza , devastated by years of conflict and war , were already dealing with challenging circumstances before the virus arrived in the territory . <p> Stuart Almer , chief executive of the Gurwin Jewish Nursing &amp; Rehabilitation Center in Commack , N.Y. , is still working out the logistics of administering the Covid-19 vaccine to residents and staff.Credit ... Benjamin Norman for The New York Times <p> In coming days , squads of CVS and Walgreens employees , clad in protective gear and carrying small coolers , will begin to arrive at tens of thousands of nursing homes and assisted-living facilities to vaccinate staff and residents against the coronavirus . <p> It promises to be a crucial milestone in America 's battle against a pandemic that has inflicted especially severe carnage on nursing homes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have died from the virus , accounting for 38 percent of the country 's Covid-related fatalities . <p> But even before it begins , the mass-vaccination campaign is facing serious obstacles that are worrying nursing home executives , industry watchdogs , elder-care lawyers and medical experts . They expect nursing homes to be the most challenging front in the mission to vaccinate Americans . <p> Some residents and staff are balking at taking the vaccine . Short-staffed facilities are concerned about workers calling in sick with side effects , straining resources just as some frail residents are likely to experience fever and fatigue from the shot . Most nursing home employees work in shifts ; will it be possible to vaccinate everyone over the course of just a few visits from CVS and Walgreens ? <p> With days to go before the vaccinations begin , there is also widespread confusion about how nursing homes will get consent to vaccinate residents who are n't able to make their own medical decisions . <p> Pharmacists from Walgreens are scheduled to arrive next week at the 460-bed Gurwin Jewish Nursing &amp; Rehabilitation Center @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , residents and their families have been peppering Stuart Almer , the home 's chief executive , with questions . Can residents and staff orally agree to receive the vaccine or will they have to sign something ? What role , if any , will nursing home employees play in vaccinating residents ? <p> Mr. Almer said he has spent hours on the phone with federal and state agencies but has few answers . <p> The success of widespread , frequent testing of students and staff at colleges shows how the strategy could speed the reopening of primary and secondary schools , the Rockefeller Foundation report says . Nicolette Sena , 18 , swabs her nostrils for a coronavirus test at the University of Arizona in Tucson.Credit ... Adriana Zehbrauskas for The New York Times <p> The federal government should invest $42.5 billion to aggressively ramp up coronavirus testing capacity and use it to enable all of the country 's public schools to open for in-person instruction by March 1 , the Rockefeller Foundation says in a report published on Wednesday . <p> Noting that it will be months longer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ widespread and frequent surveillance testing to allow schools to open safely in the meantime . <p> With 300 million tests a month , the report says , the nation 's nearly 100,000 schools could test all students once a week and all teachers and other staff members twice a week . For the strategy to work , it says , the tests must be able to deliver results within 24 hours . <p> The report calls on the federal government to pay for the tests and testing supplies , and to make use of the more than 6,000 members of the Commissioned Corps of the U.S. Public Health Service to support the nation 's 13,000 school districts in setting up their testing systems . <p> If districts have an array of testing options , the report says , they should choose polymerase chain reaction ( PCR ) tests , and consider using pooled tests to reduce costs , though it describes rapid antigen tests as almost as good . Some experts argue that the rapid tests are actually more useful for this kind of surveillance testing , because they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be acted on quickly . <p> Experts have been arguing for months that the country should hugely expand rapid testing capacity , and evidence from colleges has shown that frequent testing of all students and staff members can stop outbreaks from catching fire . <p> " A lot of the advice in this plan was available months ago , but there has been a lack of will to act upon it , " Dr. Bill Hanage , an associate professor of epidemiology at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health , said in an email . <p> He added that testing must be accompanied by other mitigation measures . " They 're not an excuse for poor ventilation or a lack of masks , or even soap in the restrooms . " <h> Advertisement <p> The World Health Organization will be dispatching a team of scientists to Wuhan , China , to investigate the origins of the pandemic . The city has not recorded any cases of Covid-19 transmission since May , and life there is gradually returning to normal.Credit ... Getty Images <p> An international team of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to travel to China early in the new year to begin a wide-ranging investigation of the origins of the coronavirus that has caused a pandemic . <p> Their task , according to a November description by the W.H.O. of the planned inquiry , will be to study how the outbreak in Wuhan began . All possibilities will be investigated , according to the organization , although the November document makes no mention of unsubstantianted suspicions about laboratory leaks , which Chinese scientists and officials have vigorously denied . <p> Reuters first reported the timing of the impending trip ; the W.H.O. confirmed that the team is now making travel arrangements to go to China as soon as possible , with January the goal . EcoHealth Alliance , whose president , Peter Daszak , is one of the team members , also confirmed that the team planned to travel in January . Dr. Daszak is also the chairman of a 12-member task force on the origins of the virus organized by The Lancet , a medical journal . The Lancet task force is not expected to travel to China . <p> @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Wuhan Institute of Virology , which has been the target of some speculation about laboratory leaks . An EcoHealth Alliance grant to continue that work was canceled by the National Institutes of Health , in what many scientists took to be an exertion of political influence by the Trump administration . The cancellation prompted protest letters , including one from a group of Nobel Laureates . <p> A volunteer receiving the experimental coronavirus vaccine manufactured by the Chinese company Sinopharm in Lima.Credit ... Ernesto Benavides/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images <p> Researchers in Peru announced on Wednesday that they would resume clinical trials for an experimental coronavirus vaccine manufactured by the Chinese company Sinopharm after concluding that a volunteer 's illness last week was unlikely to be related to the injection . <p> The trial participant had experienced a feeling of weakness in both legs that made walking difficult , prompting health officials to halt the study on Friday to investigate . It was not clear whether the volunteer had received a vaccine from Sinopharm , which contains a modified version of the coronavirus that can not cause disease , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Peru in the same trial of 12,000 people . <p> Experts have repeatedly stressed that such pauses are crucial for researchers to evaluate unexpected illnesses or side effects that occur in clinical trial volunteers . Such events could be tied to the vaccines being tested or they could be a coincidence , completely unrelated to the injection . On Saturday , Peru 's minister of health , Pilar Mazzetti , reiterated the country 's priority for safety in developing tools to combat the coronavirus . <p> Feelings of weakness in the limbs can sometimes be caused by Guillain-Barre syndrome , a rare condition in which the immune system attacks the nervous system that has occasionally been linked to vaccines . <p> But Dr. Germ ? n M ? laga , a physician at Cayetano Heredia University who is coordinating the Sinopharm trial , described the volunteer , 64 , who fell ill as having chronic and poorly controlled diabetes . He added that the person more likely had experienced another ailment related to that condition . <p> Dr. M ? laga added that Guillain-Barre syndrome had not yet been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is " in good condition , " he said , and had not experienced " a serious episode . " <p> Sinopharm 's vaccines have been granted limited or full approval in several countries , including the United Arab Emirates , Bahrain and China , and are estimated to have been administered to about a million people . Some people receiving the injections have reported headaches , mild " skin secretions " and diarrhea , but side effects seem relatively rare . <p> Peru 's trial is slated to wrap up within a few weeks , Dr. M ? laga said . Data on the vaccine 's efficacy is still pending and negotiations with Sinopharm continue . The country is expected to purchase several million doses of Sinopharm 's vaccines , with the first injections scheduled for next year . <p> Sidney Powell , who was a member of President Trump 's legal team , posted on Twitter that " big government " could surveil people not vaccinated against the coronavirus.Credit ... Jonathan Ernst/Reuters <p> Sidney Powell , a lawyer who was part of President Trump 's legal team , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For days , she claimed that she would " release the Kraken " by showing voluminous evidence that Mr. Trump had won the election by a landslide . <p> But after her assertions were widely derided and failed to gain legal traction , Ms. Powell started talking about a new topic . On Dec. 4 , she posted a link on Twitter with misinformation that said that the population would be split into the vaccinated and the unvaccinated and that " big government " could surveil those who were unvaccinated . <p> " NO WAY #America , " Ms. Powell wrote in the tweet , which collected 22,600 shares and 51,000 likes . " This is more authoritarian communist control imported straight from #China . " <p> Ms. Powell 's changing tune was part of a broader shift in online misinformation . As Mr. Trump 's challenges to the election 's results have been knocked down and the Electoral College has affirmed President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr . ' s win , voter fraud misinformation has subsided . Instead , peddlers of online falsehoods are ramping up lies about the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amplified by far-right websites and a robust network of anti-vaccination activists like Robert F. Kennedy Jr . on platforms including Facebook , YouTube and Twitter . <h> Advertisement <p> Ridership on subways , like this Queens bound train in October , has been down drastically since the start of the pandemic.Credit ... Gregg Vigliotti for The New York Times <p> The Metropolitan Transportation Authority has warned for months that the agency will be forced to make draconian cuts , including slashing New York City 's subway service 40 percent , as the pandemic plunged the nation 's largest public transit agency into its worst financial crisis . <p> But as Joseph R. Biden Jr . prepares to move into the White House , Congress in recent days seemed to be edging closer to reaching a compromise on a federal aid package that would likely provide $4 billion to the M.T.A. , allowing the agency to avoid , for now , imposing its doomsday plan . <p> Patrick J. Foye , the chairman of the agency , said the M.T.A. continued to seek $12 billion in federal aid to help stabilize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that has rebounded to only 30 percent of pre-pandemic levels . <p> Beside huge cuts to subway service , the agency has also proposed slashing commuter rail service in half and laying off over 9,000 transit workers . <p> And early next year , the M.T.A. board is expected to approve 4 percent increases in fares and tolls that would take effect in the spring and generate more revenue for the 2021 budget , according to people familiar with the proposed plan who asked not to be identified before the board takes action . <p> Transportation advocates have urged Gov . Andrew M. Cuomo , who controls the M.T.A. , and state lawmakers to identify new revenue streams -- including raising the gas tax or creating a surcharge on nonessential items purchased online -- to help the agency dig out of its financial hole without relying so heavily on future federal help . <p> The agency has already achieved $1 billion in savings by trimming administrative expenses , like reducing overtime and cutting consultant contracts , and borrowed $3.4 billion , the maximum amount allowed , from an emergency lending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have said they are hopeful that more relief could come under Mr. Biden , who is known as a fan of Amtrak , the national railroad , and has also signaled support for public transit systems . <p> Boxes of vaccines and medication stored in a refrigerated room at the PCI Pharma Services headquarters in Philadelphia.Credit ... Hannah Yoon for The New York Times <p> As countries prepare to distribute hundreds of millions of Covid-19 vaccines -- some of which require storage as cold as the South Pole in winter -- the highly specialized operations of companies like PCI Pharma Services , which specializes in packaging and shipping drugs around the world , are in heavy demand . And Wall Street , which likes nothing better than a hot trade with the potential for big profits , is rushing to grab a piece of the action . <p> Investors were already snapping up shares of vaccine makers like Moderna and Pfizer , whose vaccine , developed with BioNTech , was introduced in the United States on Monday and requires an exceptionally low storage temperature of minus 70 Celsius . <p> @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seizing on smaller companies like PCI Pharma , whose cold-storage operations will play a crucial role in delivering Covid vaccines to the public . <p> Until recently , the temperature-controlled storage and shipping of pharmaceutical products , known as the " cold chain , " was a relatively sleepy corner of the health care industry . The technology to preserve animal-based cells and tissues by transporting them in cold conditions has been available since the 1950s , and certain breakthroughs in cancer research in the last decade increased demand for cold-chain transportation . <p> But the virus and the vaccines poised to combat it have brought new attention to cold-chain delivery systems . <p> In October , Blackstone , the private equity giant , invested $275 million in Cryoport , which specializes in shipping sensitive medical materials at freezing temperatures . Investors have also been bullish on Ember , the beverage-heating company that has developed a refrigerated medical shipping box with built-in GPS and already counts two Jonas Brothers and the Brooklyn Nets forward Kevin Durant as shareholders . <p> Shares of Cryoport are up more than 180 percent this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ involved in 26 Covid vaccines and treatments and has a long-term partnership with McKesson , a distributor of medical supplies that has been tapped by the U.S. government to manage domestic vaccine distribution . <p> Ram M. Jagannath , a senior managing director at Blackstone , said that the cell and gene-based therapies market where the company operates is likely to grow at an annualized rate of 50 percent for the next five years . " The current pandemic has only served to increase interest and investment in these potentially lifesaving therapies , " Mr. Jagannath said . " We invested in this for the long run . " <p> Chris Christie , the former New Jersey governor who was hospitalized as he battled the coronavirus.Credit ... Al Drago for The New York Times <p> Chris Christie , the former governor of New Jersey and a longtime friend of and informal adviser to President Trump , has filmed a video urging people to wear masks and warning against making the same mistake he did when he became part of a coronavirus outbreak at the White House in early October . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experience and to , please , wear a mask and stay safe , " he wrote in a post introducing the video . <p> Mr. Christie said the video , which he posted on Twitter , would not be directed at everyone . <p> Instead , it would be aimed at " all those people who refuse to wear a mask , " he said , adding : " You know , lying in isolation in the I.C.U . for seven days , I thought about how wrong I was to remove my mask at the White House . Today I think about how wrong it is to let mask wearing divide us , especially as we now know you 're twice as likely to get Covid-19 if you do n't wear a mask . Because if you do n't do the right thing , we could all end up on the wrong side of history . Please wear a mask . " <p> Mr. Trump , who was also hospitalized after contracting the virus , has repeatedly played down the significance of masks , making clear he did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ according to current and former administration officials . <p> Mr. Christie has been the most vocal member of Mr. Trump 's circle about his experience in testing positive for the virus , and he has talked about his own mistakes in preventing its spread . He has publicly apologized before for not leaving his mask on at the White House as he was helping Mr. Trump prepare for his first debate against Joseph R. Biden Jr. , saying he had a false sense of security because people who came in close contact with the president were tested for the virus beforehand . <p> The former governor has not ruled out a possible presidential campaign of his own in 2024 . In recent days , Mr. Christie has been forceful in calling for Mr. Trump to abandon his baseless claims of voter fraud in the 2020 race , saying he has failed to produce evidence of it . 
@@86489900 <p> Seemingly from nowhere , Shasha-Biton -- who when she was appointed head of the Knesset coronavirus committee in May was a little-known MK who came to the Likud through its merger with Moshe Kahlon 's Kulanu Party -- is shaping up as the electoral asset of the next election . <p> This became clear in a Channel 12 poll on Tuesday showing that her inclusion on Gideon Sa'ar 's newly-formed New Hope Party -- she announced on Tuesday that she was leaving Likud and joining Sa'ar -- would add five seats to the party , bringing it from 16 to 21 seats in the next Knesset . <p> According to the poll , the addition of Eisenkot , the much courted former chief-of-staff , would only add one seat . <p> And what this shows is that it is corona -- rather than rockets from Gaza , Iranian entrenchment in Syria , or even Iranian nuclear weapons -- that is resonating most strongly with the public , as Shasha-Biton has created a niche for herself as the people 's coronavirus champion . <p> Do n't believe it ? Consider @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to name a fish dish after the MK : " Shasha-Biton fish . " Why , the cook was asked ? Because , he replied , " she went with her belief and values and stood alongside the restaurateurs when they wanted to send us home . " <p> And what exactly was Shasha-Biton 's belief ? Standing up -- as the head of the Knesset 's corona committee -- to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and the corona cabinet ; pushing back against decisions in the summer to close much of the country because of the virus . <p> Shasha-Biton became the country 's anti-rubber stamp . The government wanted to close gyms , she said no ; beaches , no ; restaurants , not so fast . While the government 's basic instinct was to fight the virus by shutting things down , her reflex was to keep things open , because to close them -- she argued in the committee and in television studios -- caused untold financial and emotional strain . <p> Never mind that a strong argument can be made that opening everything too quickly after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a second lockdown on Rosh Hashanah , Shasha-Biton 's positions were popular with a public that also wanted stores and restaurants and beaches open -- and this earned her praise for demonstrating a willingness to stand up to Netanyahu and the government . <p> In September she went head-to-head with health experts over data . She sparred in her committee with Health Ministry deputy director-general Itamar Grotto about the true number of COVID-19 casualties , arguing that the numbers were inflated . And a few days later she challenged in a television studio former Health Ministry director-general Gabi Barbash about his gloomy COVID projections . Never mind that Barbash 's predictions turned out to be absolutely correct , she stood out as that lone voice questioning the data that was leading to the government taking draconian steps . <p> If former Health Ministry director-general Moshe Bar Siman Tov , in the first few months of the coronavirus , was the prophet of gloom , Shasha-Biton was the spokeswoman for those arguing that the government was exaggerating its response . And with a million people out of work , lives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ message that resonated with the public . <p> The steps she promoted may have led Israel into a second lockdown faster and her questioning of the data may have led some to underestimate the severity of the crisis , but it made her popular -- more popular , as Tuesday 's poll shows , than even Eisenkot . There is no fish dish at the Holon restaurant named after Eisenkot . <p> When the books about how Israel dealt with coronavirus will be written , chapters will certainly be devoted to the degree to which many public health decisions were politicized because the virus hit at a time when there was a weak and divided government , and the country 's politicians were always keeping an eye on what would play well with key constituencies -- especially as the specter of new elections perpetually lurked around the corner . <p> Shasha-Biton 's star rose exponentially because her sentiments about the need to keep things open played well with a public that was sick of restrictions and wanted to get back to their old lives . Were the decisions she made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a different question altogether . <p> Shasha-Biton 's push-back against the government in July led at first to a move inside the Likud to remove her as chair of the Knesset 's coronavirus committee , but when Blue and White stood in the way , functions given to her committee were passed on instead to one believed to be more pliable : the Knesset 's Constitution , Law and Justice Committee headed by United Torah Judaism 's Yakov Asher . <p> She is definitely now finished inside the Likud , but that is because of her own decision to leave . If the polls are to be believed , it also looks as if she is headed for a very nice life indeed inside Sa'ar 's party . And in that , there is both a lesson and a question . <p> The lesson : populism pays . The question : Is that good for the country ? <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@32463305 <p> Migrants rest at " La Roca , " or The Rock shelter in Nogales , Sonora state , Mexico , near the border fence that separates Mexico from the US File : AP/Moises Castillo <p> In March , I ended up stuck in the southern Mexican coastal village of Zipolite on account of the pandemic -- an abrupt change of pace from the past 17 years , which I had spent darting schizophrenically between countries . There was no official lockdown or curfew in Zipolite , but checkpoints were installed on either side of the village to restrict access and departures . <p> In a split second , then , my daily routine changed from one of being constantly on the road to one of lying in a hammock watching ants parade across my stomach and thinking of all the things I could be doing were I not lying in a hammock . <p> While the individual days passed excruciatingly slowly , the months flew by . The end of the year has now spontaneously arrived , and I ca n't fathom how it is that I am still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ globe , a coronavirus time warp has taken hold . As a New York Times article notes : " Google has registered a surge of searches for the day of the week " . The Washington Post remarks : " Every day is Blursday " . <p> Over at Wired magazine , Duke University cognitive neuroscientist Kevin LaBar explains that the human brain " likes novelty ... It squirts dopamine every time there 's something novel that 's happening , and dopamine helps set the initiation of the timing of these events . " <p> Hence the warping of time perception when there is not much going on . Trauma and anxiety also alter the perception of time , as does uncertainty about the future . <p> In my own privileged case of quarantine lite -- in which I have not had to deal with added stressors like unemployment , lack of food , or domestic discord -- the time warp has featured an element of " coronastalgia " , if you will . Bizarrely , I have found myself missing the very situation that I have yet to emerge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brain has apparently decided to view the present as past from some projected future vantage point , others are experiencing a " feeling of being stuck in the present " , as Felix Ringel , an anthropologist of time at Durham University , writes in the Conversation . <p> Ringel observes that , for many , the sensation of " stuckness " is nothing new thanks to the " acceleration of time " produced by neoliberal capitalism , which has " put humanity into crisis mode for several decades already " by disappearing welfare states and job security and generally relegating the masses to infinite precariousness . <p> To be sure , there was plenty of uncertainty about the future before the onset of the pandemic -- and not just in terms of capitalism-driven planetary self-destruction . <p> Capitalism itself is traumatic for the non-elite majority of the world 's population , upon whose perpetual immiseration the whole system depends . And chronological limbo has long been the norm for many refugees from imperial wars and neoliberal destruction , not to mention climate change and related ills . <p> Consider @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the notoriously perilous sea crossing from Libya to Europe in an overcrowded dinghy in 2016 . The boat was intercepted in the Mediterranean by a migrant rescue vessel . In the new book Asylum for Sale : Profit and Protest in the Migration Industry , Uyi recalls the effective suspension of time at sea : " We stayed on that boat for what felt like days . It was so horrible . You pay to die . That is how it is : you pay to die . " <p> Similarly , deadly economics are at play on the United States-Mexico border , where countless migrants have also perished in search of a less uncertain future . Those who successfully complete the crossing are susceptible to prolonged detention and deportation by the US government , which is the same entity responsible for rendering many migrants ' countries of origin physically and/or economically inhospitable in the first place . <p> The uncertainty that characterises the detention and deportation regime -- particularly when both activities have resulted in migrant deaths -- can produce traumatic time warps given the frequent lack of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ <p> Nor is there any certainty about the future in the Gaza Strip , which the United Nations previously predicted would be unlivable by 2020 . Existing under siege , regular bombardment , and other continuous forms of torment by the Israeli military , Palestinians in Gaza could be said to suffer from a variation of PTSD : permanent -- rather than post-traumatic stress disorder . <p> All of this with the help , of course , of massive aid to Israel from the headquarters of global capitalism -- the US -- and to the great benefit of the arms industry . <p> If time flies when you are having fun , then , it can all but stop when you are not . When you are in the midst of a pandemic , it seems , it can simultaneously drag , fly , and cease to exist at all . And for Palestinians and other already traumatised populations now hit -- often disproportionately -- by the virus , the time warp is presumably even more warped . <p> Predictably , capitalism has undertaken to fix the pandemic by , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the poor ones lethally stuck . As the coronavirus clock stops and starts and time ticks contortedly by , it is as good a time as ever to stop and think . <p> The views expressed in this article are the author 's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera 's editorial stance . <p> Belen Fernandez is the author of Exile : Rejecting America and Finding the World ( OR Books , 2019 ) , Martyrs Never Die : Travels through South Lebanon ( Warscapes , 2016 ) , and The Imperial Messenger : Thomas Friedman at Work ( Verso , 2011 ) . She is a contributing editor at Jacobin Magazine , and has written for the London Review of Books blog , Current Affairs , and Middle East Eye , among numerous other publications . 
@@86492500 <p> The title " Gaza Mon Amour " carries threatening echoes of those cutesy auteur short anthologies in which assorted drifting souls find love in the same scenic city streets . Happily , Palestinian twin filmmakers Arab and Tarzan Nasser 's entirely self-contained feature is nothing so slick or glib , though it boasts internationally flavored romantic whimsy in spades . Mixing a minor-key midlife love story with gently politicized farce against the turbulent backdrop of the Gaza Strip , the Nassers ' amiably shaggy film does , in fact , feel a little like a gossamer-weight short that has been stretched to breaking point at a hair under 90 minutes -- only just sustained by its vivid sense of place and the unforced charisma of stars Salim Daw and Hiam Abbass . <p> Such charms have made " Gaza Mon Amour " well-liked on the festival circuit : It secured spots at Venice and Toronto in the fall , before being named Palestine 's submission for the international feature Oscar . <p> IMDb.com , Inc. takes no responsibility for the content or accuracy of the above news articles , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the entertainment of our users only . The news articles , Tweets , and blog posts do not represent IMDb 's opinions nor can we guarantee that the reporting therein is completely factual . Please visit the source responsible for the item in question to report any concerns you may have regarding content or accuracy . 
