@@52254322 <h> Factbox : Latest on worldwide spread of the coronavirus <p> Reuters <p> Published : 20 hours ago <p> Updated : 3 minutes ago <p> Sorry you must be at least 19 years of age to consume this content . <p> ( Reuters ) - Worldwide COVID-19 deaths crossed 1.5 million on Thursday , as South Korea 's capital required most establishments to close at 9 p.m. each day and Italy banned midnight mass and movement between towns over Christmas and New Year . <p> DEATHS AND INFECTIONS * For an interactive graphic tracking the global spread of COVID-19 , open https : **39;592;TOOLONG ... in an external browser. * Eikon users , see COVID-19 : MacroVitals https : **39;633;TOOLONG ... for a case tracker and summary of news . <p> EUROPE <p> * Spain 's Catalonia region will not relax restrictions as planned because of worsening infection rates , prompting some ski slopes to postpone their opening next week . <p> * France will ensure free vaccinations for all and has earmarked some 1.5 billion euros ( $1.82 billion ) of next year 's social security budget to cover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he would publicly take a coronavirus vaccine to demonstrate its safety . <p> * IBM and U.S. officials are sounding the alarm over hackers targeting companies critical to the distribution of vaccines . <p> * Costa Rica has signed an agreement with Pfizer and its German partner BioNTech SE for the manufacture and delivery of 3 million COVID-19 vaccines next year . <p> ASIA-PACIFIC <p> * Victims of the world 's worst industrial disaster 36 years ago in India said the pandemic has worsened their plight . <p> * Indonesia recorded its biggest daily rise in infections on Thursday , with its COVID-19 task force attributing the jump to a lag in some areas reporting cases . <p> MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA <p> * A partial lockdown will begin this weekend in the Gaza Strip after infections spiked in the densely populated territory . <p> * South Africa tightened some restrictions in the Eastern Cape province where infections are rising the most , curbing movement and gatherings , but decided against reinstating a nationwide lockdown . <p> MEDICAL DEVELOPMENTS <p> * Challenges in Pfizer Inc 's supply chain for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in its decision to slash its 2020 production target . <p> * Moderna Inc said it expects to have between 100 million and 125 million doses of its experimental vaccine available globally in the first quarter of 2021 . <p> * AstraZeneca and Oxford University have given conflicting accounts of how they came upon the most effective dosing pattern for their vaccine . <p> ECONOMIC IMPACT <p> * Asian shares scaled a record high on Friday on the growing prospect of a large U.S. economic package , while hopes that vaccine rollouts will boost the global economy underpinned investor sentiment . MKTS/GLOB <p> * A bipartisan , $908 billion coronavirus aid plan gained momentum in the U.S. Congress on Thursday as conservative lawmakers expressed their support . <p> * U.S. bankruptcy filings fell last month to their lowest in more than 14 years , a jarring disconnect with a worsening economic outlook as COVID-19 cases surge . <p> * Japan will establish subsidies for regional banks that shore up their core strength through mergers and integration as part of efforts to revive regional economies . 
@@52255101 <p> Independent and neutral with regard to all political and religious orientations , Tolerance.ca ? aims to promote awareness of the major democratic principles on which tolerance is based . <p> Director / Editor : Victor Teboul , Ph.D . <p> Looking inside ourselves and out at the world Independent and neutral with regard to all political and religious orientations , Tolerance.ca ? aims to promote awareness of the major democratic principles on which tolerance is based . <p> Beyond the political issues surrounding the assassination of the " father of the Iranian bomb , " there are also questions regarding the action 's necessity and value . Will it slow down Iran 's nuclear program to a significant degree ? Was it worth the angry reactions throughout the world and the revenge that is expected from the Islamic Republic ? Consider these questions from a " less popular " perspective . <p> The prevailing assumption in the Israeli and international media , and among governments around the world , is that the assassination of the head of Iran 's military nuclear project , Mohsen Fakhrizadeh , was carried out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the assassination from Israel 's vantage point should be examined and weighed . To this end , certain questions must be answered : What was the strategic purpose of this action , and what is the likelihood of its ultimate success ? In light of this goal , was the timing of the action correct ? And finally , are the potential costs greater or smaller than the expected benefit ? This article concludes that in the case of the killing of Fakhrizadeh , it is doubtful that the benefits outweigh the costs , and unclear that the assassination will substantially serve the goal of damaging and delaying the Iranian nuclear program . <p> No party has yet taken responsibility for the assassination of Mohsen Fakhrizadeh , the head of the Iranian nuclear weapons project , but the prevailing assumption in both the international and Israeli media and among governments around the world is that Israel is responsible . This assumption requires us to assess the costs and benefits of an Israeli decision to carry out the assassination . To this end , certain questions must be answered : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what is the likelihood of its ultimate success ? Given this goal , was the timing of the action correct ? And finally , are the potential costs greater or smaller than the expected benefit ? <p> If Israel is indeed responsible for Fakhrizadeh 's assassination , the decision to take this action was likely made with the approval of the Trump administration and in coordination with it , less than two months before President-elect Joe Biden enters the White House . Perhaps Israel and the United States deliberated and coordinated the strike during the most recent visit of Secretary of State Mike Pompeo to the region , on November 18-21 , 2020 . Perhaps there was also a certain level of coordination with the Saudi leadership during the clandestine tripartite meeting in the city of Neom in Saudi Arabia that included Israeli Prime Minister Israel Benjamin Netanyahu . Coordination and approval from the US are necessary , given that the US and the Gulf states may well pay some of the prices of the anticipated Iranian response . <p> The implicit , though in the absence of a claim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Iranian nuclear military project , delay its progress , and perhaps deter Iran from continuing it . This project , which was to be frozen for over a decade in the framework of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action ( JCPOA ) signed with Iran in 2015 , was accelerated anew after President Trump withdrew from the agreement . According to the most recent report published by the International Atomic Energy Agency ( IAEA ) , Iran has accumulated a quantity of nuclear material enriched at a low level that would suffice for one , and soon two nuclear warheads after enrichment to military-grade level , so that the breakout time to an Iranian nuclear weapon has been considerably shortened . For Trump and Netanyahu , the assassination presumably had two additional goals : the first is to make it more difficult for the incoming Biden administration to make good on its intention to return to the JCPOA with Iran . The second goal concerns domestic politics -- to strengthen domestic support in Israel and the US for Netanyahu and Trump , respectively , and for their policies . <p> @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of principle : does the elimination of heads of organizations or systems , or central people within them , genuinely damage those organizations for a meaningful period of time ? The record of Israeli-initiated killings is mixed : killings typically did not harm the capabilities of the attacked organizations for a meaningful period of time , and sometimes the opposite occurred . Such was the case , for instance , in the elimination of the leader of Hezbollah , Abbas Musawi , in 1992 , which brought about the rise of Hassan Nasrallah . Few dispute that Nasrallah has been a more effective leader than his predecessor , and that Hezbollah 's capabilities have only improved under his leadership . Moreover , regarding killings , for the most part it is hard to pinpoint achievements that go beyond the tactical level and a limited period of time . One example was the killing of the leaders of Hamas in the Gaza Strip , which led Hamas to suspend its attacks on Israel for a while , but it is doubtful whether they altered Hamas 's underlying strategy or slowed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ismail Kani ( the successor to Quds Force commander Qassem Soleimani ) as lacking both charisma and ties with the leaders of the Iranian regime , it is difficult to point to substantive changes in Iran 's strategy and operations across the Middle East in general and Quds Force operations in particular since Soleimani was killed . <p> In the case of the Iranian nuclear program , the beginning of the last decade saw an assassination campaign against Iranian nuclear scientists . There is no evidence that this campaign caused a meaningful delay in the program or deterred Iranian nuclear scientists from participation in this nuclear program . Rather , political activities aimed at preventing cooperation with Iran , intelligence exposures , sanctions , cyber operations , and ultimately the JCPOA all contributed far more to slow down the program and deter Iran from breaking out to a nuclear weapon , out of concern for the potential costs of progressing with the program . It appears that at the time of these assassinations , the Iranian project was too extensive and mature for a few killings to substantively affect it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charismatic and effective leader of the military component of the project and ostensibly seems irreplaceable . But is that so ? Or could it be that this assessment stems from the tendency to glorify the enemy in front of us ? Experience teaches that there is no way to know in advance whether the successor will be better or worse than the predecessor . <p> The question of timing influences the cost-benefit calculus <p> It can be argued that the assassination was only possible ahead of Biden 's entry into the White House , since presumably the new President would not have given his approval for such an action . Thus , if the action has value it is only within this time frame . However , this claim relies on the assumption that there is no possibility of slowing the Iranian nuclear project via an agreement between Iran and the world powers . This assumption contradicts the success of the existing agreement to slow the project at least for a limited period , as well as the chances that the new US administration would manage to renew the prior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ areas . Similarly , it denies that the US could initiate a process of reconciliation with Iran , which in the longer term would delay and damage the project more significantly , even if the prospects of such an eventuality are slim . The argument also ignores the possibility that even without the assassination , the new administration 's efforts to reach an agreement with Iran will fail , partly because of the political changes both within Iran and in Iranian-US relations since the US withdrawal from the nuclear agreement and the renewal of sanctions on Iran . On the one hand , Iranian mistrust of the US and its political system has increased greatly ; no one can guarantee to Iran that a new administration in four years wo n't return to Trump 's policy . On the other hand , these developments have greatly strengthened the status of hardliners in Iran who are opposed to any nuclear agreement whatsoever , and in the upcoming Iranian presidential elections , scheduled for June 2021 , it is likely that a conservative candidate will emerge the victor . Presumably , an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if it took place after a Biden administration tried and failed to reach a pact with Iran . <p> The actual timing of the assassination is likely to exact high political costs <p> In contrast , the actual timing of the assassination is likely to exact high political costs , and particularly if the assassination results in the US becoming embroiled in a war in the region ( though such a scenario seems unlikely ) . Severe international condemnations from the European Union and the UN Secretary General were expected , but the harsh condemnations in the United States and the blunt language from those close to the Democratic Party are unprecedented . Israel is portrayed as a terrorist criminal state . The killing is seen by many as a Trump-Netanyahu conspiracy to thwart one of the major components of the new administration 's policy , which believes that the effort to prevent Iran from obtaining nuclear capability by withdrawing from the JCPOA and exacerbating sanctions has failed ; since according to this perspective Trump 's policy has in practice only revived the Iranian nuclear program and brought Iran closer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to an agreement supported by the threat of sanctions and military action . Even before the assassination , relations between Prime Minister Netanyahu and the Democratic Party were tarnished due to Netanyahu 's blatant stance against the Obama administration and its policies , as well as his intimacy with Trump and the Republican party ; against this backdrop , bipartisan support for Israel has been severely eroded . Though Biden himself belongs to the moderate wing of the Democratic party and has a record of consistent support for Israel , it is doubtful that he will be able to sit in silence in the face of Prime Minister Netanyahu 's derision toward him and his party . Biden may be hard pressed to resist the more progressive elements in his party , some of whom are already pushing for a change in policy toward Israel . In addition , confrontations between Israel and the new administration are also expected on issues related to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict , if Netanyahu does not change his policy in this area . <p> Israel 's image in the international arena has been damaged greatly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Israel as a terrorist-criminal state that deviates from accepted international norms . Against this background , the condemnation of the assassination by other Western countries assumes greater significance . <p> Beyond the political costs , Iran 's expected violent response to Israel , and possibly also against the US and the Gulf states , must be considered ; this could well be joined by the reduced cost that Iran itself will pay in the international arena for its actions . If killing nuclear scientists in Iran is accepted as legitimate , then for many in the world , the killing of Israeli scientists and others , as well as other Iranian violent reactions , would also be rendered legitimate . However , the Iranian leadership is typically cautious and measured . Iran might not respond to Israel before the new US administration assume office , and it may not respond to the US at all so as not to ruin its prospects of talks with the new administration , though it is difficult to see how in the long term Iran would forfeit a response to Israel . <p> @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enters office and does not react at all toward the US , there is a not insignificant chance that Biden 's determination to carry out his policy will even be strengthened by the blunt Trump-Netanyahu attempt to foil the new administration 's expected approach , a moment before it begins its term . Hence , even the goal of frustrating Biden 's policy may not be achieved . <p> In conclusion , the violent reaction of an enemy and rival to any violent action that Israel takes against it must always be considered , as well as the costs of such a response . Israel is able to deal in the world of actions and reactions , but it must weigh the gains against potential risks . In the case of the Fakhrizadeh assassination , it is doubtful if this balance yields a positive result , or whether the killing will significantly serve the objective of damaging and delaying the Iranian nuclear project . In any case , it is to be hoped that domestic political motivations , both in Israel and the United States , were not the primary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Web pages of www.tolerance.ca ( including articles , images , photographs , and logos ) is protected by intellectual property rights owned by Tolerance.ca ? Inc. or , in certain cases , by its author . Any reproduction of the information for use other than personal use is prohibited . In particular , any alteration , widespread distribution , translation , sale , commercial exploitation or reutilization of the contents of the Web site , without the prior written permission of Tolerance.ca ? Inc. , is strictly forbidden . For information , please contact info@tolerance.ca <p> Tolerance.ca ? Inc. is not responsible for external links nor for the contents of the advertisements appearing on Tolerance.ca ? . Ads companies may use information about your visits to this web site in order to provide advertisements about goods and services of interest to you . 
@@52257908 <h> Kareem Hunt <h> Latest Stories <p> Saudi Arabia 's foreign minister said on Friday a resolution to a bitter dispute with Qatar seemed " within reach " after Kuwait announced progress towards ending a row that Washington says hampers a united Gulf front against Iran . The United States and Kuwait have worked to end the dispute , during which Saudi Arabia , the United Arab Emirates , Bahrain and Egypt have imposed a diplomatic , trade and travel embargo on Qatar since mid-2017 . <p> Venezuela 's government is encouraging private firms to sign import and export deals with companies in Asia and the Middle East as part of an effort to limit the impact of U.S. sanctions , according to four sources with knowledge of the matter . The plan expands on President Nicolas Maduro 's existing commercial relationships with allies such as Turkey and Iran , which have already been providing the cash-strapped government with food and fuel in exchange for gold . <p> CALGARY -- One child asks for a coat for her dog in case her family gets evicted . Another girl hopes Santa can bring her pet medication he needs . Another wishes for enough dog food.A charity that provides subsidized pet care , including food hampers and medical treatment , for low-income residents is receiving Christmas letters from children asking for help for their furry friends.Parachutes for Pets in Calgary has delivered 2,000 pet food hampers since the COVID-19 pandemic hit in March . But demand , especially during the second wave of the pandemic , is taking its toll on both the organization and those receiving help . " Instead of Santa I wanted to write to you guys . My dog Badger is really cute and my best friend . He needs pills or he gets really , really sick . Could you bring me his pills for my Santa gift ? I 've been really good and so has he , " reads a letter signed Hanna and Badger.The organization says it has received 14 letters from children in the last week that normally would have gone to Santa . " My Christmas wish this year is a coat for my dog Max . Mom says we ca n't pay rent after this month and I want Max to be warm if we have to stay in our car , " wrote Kaylee . " I have a warm coat and I think one would be good for him to stay warm . Please tell Santa this is my only wish . Merry Christmas . " Melissa David , who founded the charity , said the messages from the kids are heartbreaking . " Instead of writing to Santa , they 've written to us . Their Christmas wish is either for their dog to get medication and their dog to get food , so they do n't have to share their meal with them . " David said the charity referred Kaylee 's mom , who was at risk of being evicted , with an agency to deal with her rent arrears.She said the charity made it through the first wave of the pandemic , but the resurgence of COVID-19 in the last months has resulted in demands coming at a " fast and furious rate . " " This second wave is going to cripple us . The amount of additional homeless with pets and domestic violence incidents involving pets is astronomical , " David said.People are still donating food items , she said , but there 's also a need for cash , which is in short supply . " This ( pandemic ) in addition to everyday challenges that are still here , such as cancer and illness , is really making it difficult for people to keep their pets at a time they ca n't afford mentally to lose them . " David said she is reaching out in desperation since there are limits on what help the charity can arrange . " We were passed over for most COVID grants because animals were not considered essential . " There are also messages asking for help from physically abused women who are afraid to leave their pets behind . " They want to take their pet with them . They 're at the lowest of lows and they do n't leave with anything but the clothes on their back . And if that pet stays , statistics are 80 per cent that it will be tortured or killed or used as some sort of revenge by the abuser . " The head of the Calgary Women 's Emergency Shelter said crisis calls between April and September were up nearly 65 per cent compared with the year before.Shelter CEO Kim Ruse confirms many women stay where they are for fear of their pets being harmed . " Not having a place for pets to go often stops women from leaving abusive and dangerous situations , " Ruse said . " Many are unaware that there are options for keeping pets safe while finding safety for themselves and their children . " She said the agency does have pet-friendly rooms to accommodate small animals . " Allowing pets in the shelter will help provide emotional and healing support for women and their children during their stay . " This report by The Canadian Press was first published Dec. 4 , 2020-- Follow @BillGraveland on TwitterBill Graveland , The Canadian Press <p> City officials say they 'll continue to keep a close eye on Ottawa 's increasingly crowded malls to make sure holiday shoppers are following public health protocols.Bylaw officers will be out in force patrolling shopping centres and big box stores across the city , a city spokesperson said in a statement Thursday . They 'll also be on hand to respond to any complaints.Customers are " reminded to practice physical distancing from others and to ensure their masks are worn properly , " the statement said.Business owners , too , are being reminded to follow protocols aimed at slowing the spread of COVID-19 . " As we head into the holiday shopping season , we encourage business owners to review their current practices and make any necessary changes to ensure they are creating a safer shopping experience , " an Ottawa Public Health ( OPH ) spokesperson said in an email . Shoppers thronged Ottawa 's major malls last weekend in search of Black Friday deals , and the crowds are expected to continue through Christmas and Boxing Day . " We did see some good traffic on Black Friday and leading up to that . I think people are trying to get their shopping out of the way , " said Brian O'Hoski , general manager at Rideau Centre . Both Rideau Centre and St. Laurent Shopping Centre have hired extra security guards to enforce mask rules , and have posted pandemic rules and regulations throughout . More signs show shoppers which way to walk , and where to stand to wait their turn to enter busier stores . " There 's footprints outside each store , and then there 's an overflow line for some of those busier stores , " said Kristina Sparkes , marketing coordinator at St. Laurent Shopping Centre . " We 're also asking people to use a bit of courtesy and common sense . " Both O'Hoski and Sparkes recommend customers visit during non-peak hours to avoid crowds and long waits . <p> A Brampton college student is accusing his school of mishandling his complaint about a fellow student after it dismissed anti-Sikh comments the man made to him during an online class , referring to the statements simply as " historical fact . " Prabhjot Singh , 25 , says he was making a presentation via Zoom to his immigration class at CDI College in Mississauga in October when he was interrupted by another student . " He jumped into my presentation and he said all the people from Punjab are frauds , " Singh told CBC News from his Brampton home.Singh says the student then referred to the killing of thousands of Sikhs in India 36 years ago following the assassination of Prime Minister Indira Gandhi by her Sikh bodyguards . " ' I know you are Sikh , you are from Punjab . Did you forget how you guys were slaughtered in 1984 ? " ' Singh quotes the student as saying . He says the remarks were all the more hurtful because some of his relatives were killed in the violence . ' Nobody can forget what happened ' " Nobody can forget what happened , " Singh explained during the interview with CBC News . " Family members ... seeing a person burned alive . " Singh says he felt threatened , and that the instructor in the class made no attempt to intervene and stop the verbal attack . " I was feeling ashamed , I was feeling ... a victim of harassment , " he said . But when Singh lodged a formal complaint with CDI College , he says he received a call from the school 's educational manager , Mary Liideman , who said that the student was making comments about a " historical fact . " Singh also filed complaints about the student 's remarks with Peel Regional Police and with the World Sikh Organization of Canada ( WSO ) . The WSO says it wrote to the college explaining the significance of the 1984 anti-Sikh violence , " and the serious nature of the threats made against Prabhjot Singh . " CDI , a private , for-profit career college with 23 campus locations across Canada , replied that an internal investigation " determined that although culturally insensitive remarks were made , there were no direct threats " to Singh.The WSO 's vice president for Ontario , Sharanjeet Kaur , calls what happened to Singh outrageous , " however it is equally shocking that CDI College would dismiss threats that reference the 1984 Sikh Genocide as ' historical fact ' and merely ' culturally insensitive. ' " 1984 attacks called a ' genocide'The sectarian bloodshed started after the Indian Army launched an attack on Sikh militants in the Golden Temple in Amritsar , a site sacred to Sikhs . Gandhi 's subsequent murder led to a wave of bloody reprisals . India has said fewer than 3,000 people died in the attacks against Sikhs , but some Sikh leaders say the number is closer to 10,000 . In Canada , Crown lawyers at the Air India bombing trial stemming from the 1985 attack that killed 329 people on a flight from Montreal to New Delhi , alleged it was the work of Sikh militants who were seeking revenge for the temple attack and the post-assassination violence . In 2018 , federal NDP Leader Jagmeet Singh called on Canada to declare the killings a genocide -- saying there is clear evidence the 1984 attacks on Sikhs by Hindus were not spontaneous , but rather organized by the government . College reopening investigationAfter CBC News contacted CDI about Singh 's story , the college said in a statement it 's reopening its investigation . " Upon reflection it is clear that this did not properly address Mr. Prabhjot Singh 's concerns , " wrote Rodney D'Souza , the associate regional director of operations for CDI in central Canada.The student who made the remarks was sent a warning letter , the college says . He and Singh have since graduated from the Mississauga campus , but the college says it nonetheless " will be following up with staff disciplinary action for lack of appropriate action and sensitivity when the incident occurred . " D'Souza added that while what happened was an isolated incident , regular mandatory diversity and inclusion training for all staff will also be instituted . " We feel it is extremely important for all staff and instructors to be aware of how they can best support their students and fellow colleagues through any distressing or inappropriate situations that may arise . " <p> Three Ottawa-area conservation authorities fear major changes proposed by the Ontario government could cost them their voice in development decisions , particularly when it comes to environmentally fragile watersheds.The province began its review of the role of Ontario 's 36 conservation authorities a year and a half ago , but the " sweeping " proposals tucked inside an omnibus budget bill tabled Nov. 5 still " shocked " the general manager of the Rideau Valley Conservation Authority ( RVCA ) . &gt; It is much worse and it goes much further than we ever would have anticipated . - Sommer Casgrain-Robertson , Rideau Valley Conservation Authority " It is much worse and it goes much further than we ever would have anticipated , " said Sommer Casgrain-Robertson . " These changes are so numerous and so significant that it really goes to the heart of what conservation authorities do and how we function . " While the legislation would affect their budgets , mandates and boards of directors , Casgrain-Robertson 's biggest concern relates to a conservation authority 's diminished role in cases where there are concerns about flooding , soil erosion or altering waterways.The changes aim to " streamline " the development permit process , allowing the minister to decide on permit applications and even override a conservation authority 's decision . The bill also allows for appeals to the Local Planning Appeal **27;419;TOOLONG said RVCA staff make local decisions based on science , and she fears development permit applications in watersheds could now become politicized . " We are not an impediment to development , " Casgrain-Robertson said , noting the RVCA approves upward of 95 per cent of development permits and cut wait times by half last year.Government aiming for more accountabilityThe Rideau Valley , Mississippi Valley and South Nation conservation authorities have joined counterparts across Ontario in calling on the government to withdraw the proposals for more work.But Ontario 's minister of the environment , conservation and parks said a minister 's power to take part in the permit process " will be rarely used , if at all , " and would n't " step outside of the science " . Fixes were needed because the appeal process was n't working , Jeff Yurek told CBC Sudbury earlier this week . " What we heard through our consultation was that conservation authorities throughout the entire province were lacking in accountability , transparency and consistency , " he said . The changes to Bill 226 worry Ottawa city council , too , because the boards of conservation authorities would be made up solely of municipal councillors , rather than a mix of councillors and residents with expertise , ostensibly to provide better oversight over the spending of tax dollars.City staff said if the changes go through , nearly every council member would need to take a seat on the board of a conservation authority , and take on the workload associated with it.The Association of Municipalities of Ontario also told the government it had a " growing number of serious concerns , " especially " at a time when the public is very concerned about climate change and increased flooding and storm events . " Ontario 's standing committee on finance and economic affairs held a hearing on Bill 226 earlier this week , and is expected to consider amendments in the coming days . <p> South Korean President Moon Jae-in reshuffled his cabinet on Friday as his approval rating sank to a record low amid a backlash over housing policies , rising coronavirus cases , and a scandal involving the justice ministry and top prosecutors . Moon nominated new ministers of interior , health , land and housing , and gender as he sought to refresh his administration , with roughly two years of his presidency to run . Limited to a single term , and holding a small parliamentary majority , there is no obvious risk to Moon 's presidency , but the drop in ratings , a resurgence of coronavirus cases and nagging domestic controversies could make it harder for him to fulfil his agenda . <p> The developers of Canada 's COVID Alert app fixed a glitch last week that left some users without exposure notifications for much of November.An update to the app released on Nov. 23 said it would fix a " bug causing gaps in exposure checks for some users . " Without the patch , some Canadians running the app would not have been notified if they came in close contact with someone diagnosed with COVID-19.It 's unclear how many people missed exposure notifications due to the glitch . But it does raise the prospect that certain users were n't advised to self-isolate or seek a COVID-19 test in a timely manner , potentially delaying diagnosis . " For two weeks , the app basically did n't work " for those users , said Urs Hengartner , an associate professor of computer science at the University of Waterloo.He and others on social media said their devices had not performed any exposure checks from Nov. 9 to 23 . The process -- when a smartphone receives codes from a central server and verifies whether the user was potentially exposed to someone with COVID-19 -- is supposed to take place several times a day . WATCH How the COVID Alert app worksThe problem appears to have first been reported by commenters in the Google Play Store as early as Nov. 12 . That 's 11 days before it was fixed . " I noticed today that COVID Alert has done no exposure checks for the last two weeks , " a user wrote in Apple 's App Store on Nov. 20 . " What good is this ? " Users are urged to check their app store ( the Google Play Store for people with Android devices and Apple 's App Store for those with iPhones ) to ensure their app is now up to date . Users who have n't installed the latest update -- version 1.1.2 -- could still be missing exposure checks . COVID Alert is designed to take note when two users spend at least 15 minutes less than two metres apart . If a user later tests positive for COVID-19 , they can use the app to anonymously notify contacts of potential exposure . COVID Alert has been downloaded more than 5.5 million times and is touted by federal officials as a tool to help slow the spread of the virus . The app is active in the Northwest Territories and all provinces except Alberta and B.C.During the two-week period in November when some users reported the malfunction , 1,182 people used the app to report a positive test in Ontario alone , according to provincial data.COVID-19 infection rates continued to rise across much of the country during that time . Ontario , for example , announced lockdown measures in its two most populous regions , and P.E.I. and Newfoundland and Labrador both announced on Nov. 23 they would withdraw from the Atlantic bubble due to increasing case counts elsewhere in the region.Bianca Healy , a spokesperson for the Treasury Board of Canada Secretariat , which houses the app 's development team , confirmed in an email Thursday evening that " on some devices , if the app was not opened by the user for an extended period of time , COVID Alert would stop checking in the background for the random codes that would trigger a notification that a user may have been exposed to COVID-19 . This bug has now been fixed . " Healy said the app 's built-in privacy features prevent federal officials from knowing how many users may have been affected . " We encourage Canadians to update COVID Alert as soon as possible , " she wrote . " They can also open the app to ensure that COVID Alert is checking for potential exposures . " Hengartner , the computer science professor , said it is " a little concerning that it took two weeks to fix this bug . " He said both he and his wife experienced the same issue.He called it " a fatal bug for this kind of system , " as it defeats the purpose of the app entirely.It 's unknown what caused the glitch , but Hengartner said he suspects it was an error in a previous COVID Alert update.Users were n't immediately warnedSmartphone users can choose to automatically receive app updates or download them manually . Apple 's App Store lists 14 updates for COVID Alert since its initial release in July . The Canadian Digital Service , the federal agency responsible for developing the app , tweeted a message on Nov. 26 asking users to make sure they have the latest COVID Alert update . " This will ensure your app is doing what it 's supposed to do , and you 're not missing any checks or notifications , " the message read.The tweet did not mention that the scenario it described was real and posed a potential risk to some users . It 's unclear what other steps the federal agency took to alert users of the importance of the latest update.Hengartner stressed the problem should not discourage Canadians from installing COVID Alert.However , Kelly Bronson , a Canada Research Chair in science and society , said the episode does highlight how the app could provide users with a " false sense of security . " She pointed to " automation bias , " a human tendency to rely on automated decision-making , which can reduce personal vigilance.Bronson , who serves on the Global Pandemic App Watch program at the University of Ottawa , which tracks the uptake of similar tools around the world , warned the apps " are not a panacea . " " I think it 's really important that people know the limitations of these technologies , " she said . <p> The number of active COVID-19 cases in Public Health Sudbury &amp; Districts decreased on Thursday as no new cases were reported , and one case was declared resolved . There are now seven active cases of COVID-19 in the region . According to the health unit 's weekly summary , five new cases of COVID-19 were reported in the last seven days and 11 were resolved . Of the new cases , two were close contacts of a confirmed case and two were travel related . The investigation into the exposure category of the 5th case remains ongoing . All five cases were in Greater Sudbury . Public Health 's territory also takes in Espanola , Manitoulin Island and the District of Sudbury . " By end of day on December 2 , contact tracing information was available for all 5 of the new cases , " Public Health said in its weekly report . " Through our investigation , we identified 30 people who had high-risk close contacts with these cases . That is an average of 6 high-risk close contacts per case , which is consistent with last week . " Public Health follows up directly and regularly with every high-risk close contact to monitor them for symptoms , ensure they are self-isolating , and make recommendations for testing according to provincial guidance . " The seven-day incidence rate was 2.5 per 100,000 compared to 9.1 in the previous week . The percent positivity was 0.3 per cent compared to 0.5 per cent last week . Public Health Sudbury and Districts remains in the Yellow-Protect category of the provincial COVID-19 response framework . While Sudbury did n't report any new cases , the same ca n't be said for the rest of Ontario . Ontario reported 1,824 new cases of COVID-19 on Thursday , and 14 new deaths due to the virus . In her message to the community , Medical Officer of Health Dr. Penny Sutcliffe reminded the public about staying safe as the holiday season approaches , and to treat everyone with kindness . " For some of us , the upcoming winter holidays are a time to celebrate and connect with friends and loved ones . For many , the holidays also can be stressful -- and this year , especially so . Remember , you are not alone . Reach out to friends , loved ones , or connect with local agencies and resources , " she said . " Treat yourself with kindness and respect and offer the same to others who may need support . This pandemic is not a forever-thing , but the lives we touch can be . Share a smile ( behind the mask ) , practice patience , and lend a hand when it is least expected . " The Local Journalism Initiative is made possible through funding from the federal government . **25;448;TOOLONG Twitter : @SudburyStar Colleen Romaniuk , Local Journalism Initiative Reporter , The Sudbury Star <p> Even though Lacie Krzemien knew she had been a close contact of a confirmed COVID-19 case , she still had to book an appointment and wait to get tested . " I think what should change is anyone that wants to get tested and is saying they have a close contact should be tested and even waiting 24 hours for me was very stressful , " she told CBC News . Krzemien works with Windsor 's Overdose Prevention Society and is helping to house people from Tent City . After a man they housed tested positive , Krzemien knew she had to get tested as she said she was a close contact . But , because of a province-wide rule , she was n't able to just walk-in.Yet , Krzemien is n't the only one who had to wait . Pharmacies conducting tests and one local assessment centre is finding the demand for testing in Windsor-Essex has spiked in recent weeks as cases continue to climb . On Thursday , the Windsor-Essex County Health Unit ( WECHU ) reported 63 new COVID-19 cases and 19 outbreaks . WECHU CEO Theresa Marentette said in some cases there could be up to a three-day wait for an appointment at assessment centres , though lab results are coming in within a day or two . Testing demand has more than doubled " All of that combined , there is a little bit of delay in people getting tested and then getting their results at this time , " she said.Erie Shores HealthCare Chief of Staff Ross Moncur told CBC News Thursday that they 're testing more than 160 people per day at their assessment centre , which is more than double what they were seeing back in October . " As the cases have gone up , we have seen increased number of folks looking to be tested , " he said . " So our teams have regrouped . This is a year of re-invention and we have re-invented our assessment centre a few times now and in response to the demand we 'll be increasing the capacity at the assessment centre by about 20 per cent immediately with eyes to increase it further than that in the coming weeks as we see what happens with demand . " The wait time to get a test is about two days right now , Moncur said , adding that he hopes that will decrease as they increase their capacity on Friday . He said they are also willing to set up another assessment centre , though it all comes down to having enough staff on hand . Meanwhile , pharmacist Tim Brady of Brady 's Drug Stores in Essex , Ont. and Belle River , Ont. , who has been testing at his Essex location for about a month says he 's also seeing an increased demand . " It 's definitely escalating , the amount of people that are coming in , " he said . The pharmacy performs tests for asymptomatic people only , Brady said , meaning it 's for those who need a test for work or travel . " These are people that we need to make sure are n't positive so that they do n't potentially be the spreader to a bigger issue , " he said . They are doing tests three to four days a week and people are typically waiting a day or two to get in.His pharmacy is receiving results in 48 to 72 hours . <p> Plexiglass and masks have become a part of everyday life on P.E.I. , but for people with hearing loss , those safety barriers create another obstacle to communication . " That 's making it very difficult for a lot of people to actually comprehend what is being said -- some people ca n't hear , " said Daria Valkenburg , co-president of Hear P.E.I. " I basically limit where I go . So for businesses that do n't have a system where I can hear out there , unless I have to go , I do n't go . So basically that 's what it 's done is it 's limited me . " To help those with hearing loss , Access PEI has installed speech transfer systems in Charlottetown and Summerside.Two stations are set up with the device in Charlottetown . There is a microphone on either side of the station , with speakers on the customer-facing side providing extra volume when needed . There 's also a function that allows certain hearing-aid users to connect directly . " It also has a telecoil , which means that the person speaking has their voice going instantly into the hearing aid or the cochlear implant , meaning that it is completely accessible , " said Valkenburg . " There is such a clarity of sound that it 's unbelievable . " With that method , all the background noise is eliminated , only delivering the audio coming out of the microphone -- handy for busy , noisy places like Access PEI , said Valkenburg . The booths that are equipped with this new technology are marked by a universal hearing loop symbol.For those who do n't have a hearing aid with telecoil , people can get a hearing loop device that allows users to dial into the frequency and hear it through headphones . ' Seemed like a natural fit'The pilot project came about after Access PEI reached out to Hear P.E.I. to see what it could be doing to better serve that community . " It just seemed like a natural fit for us in an attempt to make our sites more accessible , to create a more inviting experience , " said Mark Arsenault , director of Access PEI . " They do n't have to speak loudly , you know , from a privacy perspective .... It 's just your own voice level and their own voice level . So , nobody shouting or anything like that . " While it is just a pilot project right now , Arsenault said he 'd like it expanded across the Island . " Then we 'll look at it from there and see whether or not we need it in every stall or is it just one or two per site , so that we can make sure that we can serve that part of the population perfectly well . " More from CBC P.E.I. <p> JERUSALEM -- The Israeli government on Thursday urged its citizens to avoid travel to the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain , citing threats of Iranian attacks.Iran has been threatening to attack Israeli targets since its chief nuclear scientist , Mohsen Fakhrizadeh , was assassinated last Friday near Tehran . It accuses Israel , which has been suspected in previous killings of Iranian nuclear scientists , of being behind the shooting.Israel has not commented on the killing . But Fakhrizadeh has long been on Israel 's radar screen , with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu saying at a 2018 news conference about Iran 's nuclear program : " Remember that name . " Israel accuses Iran of trying to develop nuclear weapons -- a charge Iran denies.In recent months , Israel has signed agreements establishing diplomatic relations with Gulf Arab states of the UAE and Bahrain -- its first normalization deals with Arab countries in a quarter century.The agreements , brokered by the Trump administration , have generated widespread excitement in Israel , and thousands of Israeli tourists are scheduled to travel to the UAE for the Jewish holiday of Hanukkah this month.That may change following Thursday 's warning . " In light of the threats heard recently by Iranian officials and in light of the involvement in the past of Iranian officials in terror attacks in various countries , there is a concern that Iran will try to act in this way against Israeli targets , " said a statement issued by the prime minister 's National Security Council.It also advised against travel to Georgia , Azerbaijan , Turkey , the Kurdish area of Iraq and Africa.Israel 's military is well prepared to deal with the threats of Iranian troops and their proxies in neighbouring Syria , Lebanon and the Gaza Strip . Israeli media say the government also has beefed up security at embassies around the world.But protecting Israeli travellers , conspicuous and spread out at countless hotels , restaurants and tourist sites , represents a different type of challenge . " This is going to be a nightmare , and I really hope that both governments , UAE and Israel , are co-ordinating and doing the best they can to safeguard those Israelis , " said Yoel Guzansky , a former Israeli counterterrorism official who is now a senior fellow at the Institute for National Security Studies in Tel Aviv . " I 'm really worried that that something might happen , and especially now because of the context of Fakhrizadeh , because Iran is really looking for revenge , " he added . He spoke before the travel advisory was issued.The Israel Airports Authority estimates that about 25,000 Israelis will fly to the UAE this month on the five airlines now plying the route between Tel Aviv and the Gulf state 's airports in Dubai and Abu Dhabi . Celebrities , entrepreneurs and tourists already have been flocking to Dubai.With the coronavirus appearing to be under control in the UAE , it is one of the few quarantine-free travel options for Israelis during the coming Hanukkah holiday vacation , adding to its appeal . At a time when few people are travelling , Israeli visitors speaking Hebrew could be extra conspicuous.Israel this week also signed a tourism agreement with Bahrain.Amsalem Tours , an Israeli travel agency , said that there was " very serious " demand for travel packages to Dubai but did not provide specific figures.Iran and its proxies have targeted Israeli tourists and Jewish communities in the past . Agents of the Lebanese militant Hezbollah group bombed a bus carrying Israeli tourists in Burgas , Bulgaria , in 2012 , killing six and wounding dozens . That year , Israel also accused Iran of being behind attacks targeting Israeli diplomats in Thailand and India . Iran and Hezbollah also bombed the Israeli Embassy and Jewish community centre in Buenos Aires in 1992 and 1994 , claiming the lives of scores of civilians.Concerns for the safety of Israelis in Dubai also is not without precedent . In 2000 , an Israeli ex-colonel was kidnapped by Iranian proxy Hezbollah and held captive in Lebanon until he was released in a prisoner exchange in 2004 . Today , Dubai , famous for its glittering shopping malls , ultra-modern skyscrapers and nightlife , is a crossroads for travellers from around the world , including many nations that do not have relations with Israel . Iran maintains a major presence in Dubai , due to historical and current trade ties , and Dubai is believed to be a major station for Iranian intelligence services . The family of a California-based member of an Iranian militant opposition group in exile says he was abducted by Iran while staying in Dubai just a few months ago.In a possible sign of Emirati security concerns , travel agencies in countries across the Middle East and Africa say the UAE has temporarily halted issuing new visas to their citizens . With tens of thousands of Iranians working or doing business in the UAE , Iran is also among the countries facing the visa restrictions.Israel had already had a travel warning in place advising citizens against nonessential travel to the UAE . Similar " basic concrete threat " advisories are in place for visiting other Arab states with which Israel has peace treaties . But the language of Thursday 's warning was especially tough.The UAE , for its part , is known for its strict security . Dubai , home to 3.3 million people in 2019 , with just over 3 million of them foreigners , has published major crime statistics that are among some of the lowest in the world.Before Israelis began arriving , Dubai held a highly publicized drill of a police SWAT team storming a replica metro car in October and suggested facial-recognition technology could be implemented at stations along its driverless track . Experts already believe the UAE has one of the highest per capita concentrations of surveillance cameras in the world , a system that 's only grown amid the coronavirus pandemic.And despite the recent tensions , Iran may be hesitant to strike on Emirati soil , wanting to maintain its economic interests there . The UAE meanwhile has gone out of its way to say it wants to de-escalate tensions in the region despite its own suspicions over Iranian behaviour . It called the killing of Fakhrizadeh a " heinous assassination . " In an interview before Thursday 's advisory was issued , Pavel Israelsky , co-founder of Salam Dubai , said the boom in his UAE-based Israeli tour operator 's bookings was " significant " ahead of the Hanukkah holiday . While a handful of Israeli clients cancelled over security concerns , he said , " I can say that the UAE is one of the most secure places in the world in terms of the resources they invest in security . " " I do n't think there 's cause for worry , " Israelsky said . " Today , no place is really safe . " Associated Press writers Josef Federman in Jerusalem and Jon Gambrell in Dubai , United Arab Emirates , contributed reporting.Ilan Ben Zion , The Associated Press <p> Clearwater Seafoods is dropping Marine Stewardship Council certification for its Canadian offshore lobster fishery , calling it " a voluntary decision driven by business considerations . " The blue MSC eco-label tells consumers the seafood they are buying is sustainably caught and has been a point of pride for North America 's biggest shellfish producer.Clearwater 's offshore lobster fishery off southern Nova Scotia was the first fishery on the Eastern Seaboard to receive MSC certification in 2010 . The current five-year certification expires at the end of the month . " Clearwater is confident in the ability of this fishery to meet the MSC standard today , but has chosen not to initiate recertification at this time given the internal resources required to support recertification , " Clearwater vice-president Christine Penney said in an email statement to CBC News.Maintaining certification has become more onerous recently for the fishery.Two years ago , Clearwater was convicted of a gross violation when it was caught illegally storing thousands of lobster traps on the ocean floor even after it had been repeatedly warned by Canadian authorities to stop the practice because it was a conservation risk . The traps were left on the bottom with escape hatches open , but continued to catch and kill lobsters.The conviction triggered a Marine Stewardship Council audit and new conditions were imposed to demonstrate compliance . " The question comes to mind whether they 're unable to show that evidence and therefore they would n't pass the certification , " said Shannon Arnold , an environmentalist with the Ecology Action Centre in Halifax . " And so by just walking away from it , they 're not forced to show that to the consumers that they 're actually fishing within the law . " Clearwater defends lobster fisheryClearwater said the fishery was always and remains sustainable . " While Clearwater has chosen not to enter into recertification of the offshore fishery MSC program at the end of 2020 , the sustainability measures that were in place for 10 years of successful certification continue to be in effect , " said Penney . " The offshore lobster fishery remains sustainable . The fishery has not been suspended or failed , and it maintains its current certificate until December 2020 . " The Marine Stewardship Council declined to directly comment on Clearwater 's decision to drop its lobster certification . " Clearwater is a long-standing partner of the MSC , and its other MSC-certified fisheries in Canada and globally remain in our voluntary program , " spokesperson Vianna Murday said in a statement.Other core Canadian species are staying with the council.They include offshore scallops , snow crab , arctic surf clam , cold water shrimp and lobster harvested in the Maritimes by an inshore fleet independent of the company.Clearwater said an internal tracing system will allow it to separate lobster it buys from the inshore and the 720 tonnes it harvests under its offshore licences . " This fishery accounts for a small portion of Clearwater lobster volumes , and the use of the eco-label is very limited on products from this fishery , " Penney said.Partnership buying companyClearwater is in the process of being sold . If approved by shareholders , the new owner of the company will be a partnership between Premium Brands of British Columbia and a coalition of Mi'kmaw First Nations led in part by the Membertou band in Cape Breton.Membertou had previously bought two of the eight offshore licences held by Clearwater . No one from the band was available for comment.Clearwater management and the company lobster boat , the Randell Dominaux based in Shelburne , N.S. , will continue to run the coveted offshore lobster fishery.Offshore lobster fisheryClearwater has enjoyed exclusive rights to Lobster Fishing Area 41 , which starts 80 kilometres from shore and runs to the 200-mile limit , extending from Georges Bank to the Laurentian Channel between Cape Breton and Newfoundland.The company fishes entirely off southern Nova Scotia . Unlike every other lobster fishery , there is no season and Clearwater has been awarded a quota of 720 tonnes , which it has said represents about 15 per cent of all lobster it sells.For environmentalists like Arnold , the loss of Marine Stewardship Council certification is a blow . " That transparency from the MSC process , that extra layer , is what really allowed us to dig in and see what was happening with this fishery in the offshore and how they were fishing outside the legal boundaries , " she said . " So we 're concerned that we 're losing that level of oversight . " MORE TOP STORIES <p> Health-care workers feel muzzled and alone : Study Colleen Romaniuk Health-care workers in Ontario are on the frontlines in the fight against COVID-19 , but according to a new study , they are feeling " sacrificed " and " violated " by their employers and the provincial government . Researchers affiliated with the University of Windsor in collaboration with CUPE 's Ontario Council of Hospitals Union co-authored a report titled " Sacrificed : Ontario Healthcare Workers in the Time of COVID-19 . " Health-care workers represent 20 per cent of all COVID-19 cases in the province , according to the study , a number that is much higher than the global rate of 14 per cent . Due to fear of reprisal , those on the frontlines are extremely hesitant to speak out -- but those who participated in the study told a story of " dismal " working conditions and " unrelenting " stress . " Health-care workers in Ontario are suffering from much higher rates of COVID-19 infection than the general public , " said Dr. James Brophy , one of the lead authors of the new study . " While we are all facing COVID-fatigue and worry , health-care workers are suffering disproportionately from serious psychological distress . They are burning out from overwork , fear and anxiety . " Led by Dr. Brophy and Dr. Margaret Keith , the study examines in-depth , anonymous interviews conducted with 10 health-care workers who work in hospitals and long-term care facilities throughout Ontario . The respondents , who work in facilities that range from small northern-rural to large urban , were contacted by phone in April and May . Frontline workers , including PSWs , RNs , RPNs , and custodial and clerical staff , all reported feeling unprotected and unsupported in their place of work . " We have lost about 100 staff who have either taken a leave of absence because of fear or have taken a leave to go work other jobs . We have a few who have taken early retirement , " said a participant in the study . " When I leave this interview , I 'm heading into work and I 'm going to work 44 out of the next 60 hours . I 've prepared enough food for six meals and they 're in two shopping bags right now . That 's what it 's doing to me . " Some interviewees reported going home to cry after their shifts , sleeping in separate bedrooms away from their spouses , and experiencing increased social isolation because they fear infecting their family and friends . " The words on the page can not convey the level of emotion we heard in the voices of healthcare workers we interviewed , " said Brophy . " We did not expect to hear the degree of anger and desperation that came out . The stories they told us were tinged with anger , frustration and fear . " There are a number of factors that contribute to the distress of health-care workers in the province , including inadequate protection against the virus , government failings , and barriers to exercising their agency . The study suggests that the provincial government , for example , has not applied the " precautionary principle " identified by the SARS Commission in 2006 which stipulates that , when in doubt , policies should err on the side of caution . " An ongoing debate that has direct impact on health-care workers ' safety is whether or not the virus can be transmitted through airborne particles , " said the study . " The evidence has grown that SARS-CoV-2 can indeed become aerosolized through coughing , sneezing , or even just breathing . " These tiny , aerosolized particles can breach surgical masks , according to Brophy . Researchers have recommended the use of N95 masks or powered air-purifying respirators for more adequate protection . Surgical masks are still considered safe for use in a health-care setting under most circumstances , although the health-care workers that participated in the study expressed some skepticism . " I had an infected patient on one of my shifts . I had my own N95 mask and I had my own goggles , and I had my own hair cover and I made sure I double gloved , " said an interviewee . " I put the cheap level two mask over top of my N95 . " The study suggests that the government 's policy was probably " supply-based rather than science-based . " Another contributing factor is the health-care workers ' lack of recourse when it comes to addressing these challenges . Employers generally do n't allow their workers to speak publicly about their experiences at work , and , according to reports , the Ministry of Labour has been unhelpful . " All the frontline workers fear reprisal . We are told , ' You ca n't talk to the media . You have to send your manager to talk to them . We have corporate relations . You ca n't be outside holding signs ' , " said one individual . " It 's just a travesty and these issues need to be said and people need to know what 's really going on . " Another said that they were " disheartened " by the Ministry of Labour during the pandemic . " They 've totally taken the employers ' side and not the workers . There is no consultation with any frontline worker , " they said . " The ministry is not showing up to calls . They 're doing a lot of phone calls , but it 's not how they should be working . They still need to be out there on the frontlines . They should use PPE and come out to the hospital if we 're saying it 's not safe . " Michael Hurley , the president of CUPE 's Ontario Council of Hospitals Union and co-author of the study , explained that health-care workers have a limited right to refuse unsafe work . " They ca n't refuse if it would result in a danger to a patient or resident , " said Hurley . " The evidence shows that in every case when the Ministry of Labour was called in , they did not support the workers . " To address these issues , the study recommends increasing staffing levels , adequate PPE and protective administrative and engineering controls , increased mental health supports , and reinvestment into a " weakened public health-care system . " There also needs to be a chance in workplace culture so that health-care workers concerns will be heard , respected , and addressed . " Health-care workers ' health and wellbeing is essentially being sacrificed . We all need to pay attention to their pleas during this frightening time , " said Dr. Margaret Keith . " Not only does their wellbeing matter , but we also need to realize if they are not being kept safe , they ca n't properly care for their patients or residents . " The Local Journalism Initiative is made possible through funding from the federal government . **25;475;TOOLONG Twitter : @SudburyStar Colleen Romaniuk , Local Journalism Initiative Reporter , The Sudbury Star <p> CALGARY -- It seems like a no-brainer to use clean-burning hydrogen to offset the environmental negatives of natural gas for warming homes , but pilot projects to do just that starting next year illustrate nothing is simple about this trendy new energy source.As companies consider ways to commercialize hydrogen as a cleaner alternative fuel and projects advance in Fort Saskatchewan , Alta. , and Markham , Ont. , most observers concede it will take time and government support to overcome its cost competitiveness issues and lack of infrastructure . " All hydrogen is not created equal , " says Tahra Jutt , director of the clean economy program for B.C. with environmental think tank The Pembina Institute and co-author of a hydrogen primer published in July . " If you blend the lowest carbon hydrogen , you 're going to get a much better outcome in terms of climate benefit . " Hydrogen has many advantages as an energy source . When it burns it leaves only water behind -- no carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gases . It can be used for high-energy-intensity applications such as trucking , shipping and steelmaking . It can be compressed for energy storage and transportation . It 's non-toxic and dissipates quickly when released.But there are disadvantages , too . Its low ignition temperature and nearly invisible flame when burning pose potential safety issues . Concentrated hydrogen can damage metal , requiring enhanced protection for pipelines . The act of creating hydrogen requires energy , whether to tear apart water molecules with the electrolysis method or breaking down natural gas molecules through thermal processes which themselves create greenhouse gases . " The economics in our view for blue and green ( hydrogen ) are challenged right now but support will increase , costs are bound to come down , so ( it 's ) another good opportunity for us to capitalize on our infrastructure , " said Al Monaco , CEO of pipeline company Enbridge Inc. , on a recent conference call , echoing the cautious stance taken by many industry leaders.Almost all of the hydrogen created in Canada today is considered " grey , " created by burning fossil fuel and then used in industrial processes such as refining petroleum or producing fertilizer . Pembina estimates it costs between 91 cents and $1.42 per kilogram to make.If the carbon dioxide and other pollutants from making grey hydrogen are captured and stored , it becomes " blue " hydrogen , but the cost jumps to between $1.34 and $1.85 per kilogram . " Green " hydrogen is separated from water using only renewable electricity and , while it is the most environmentally benign , it is also the most expensive at between $3 and $5 per kilogram , according to Pembina.Utility subsidiaries of Enbridge and Atco Ltd. are embarking on plans to inject hydrogen into the natural gas stream leading to home furnaces and water heaters in Markham and Fort Saskatchewan . Electricity ca n't be stored as is , but at Enbridge 's power-to-gas facility in Markham it is used to create hydrogen from water that can be stored until eventually being turned back into electricity with Enbridge 's 2.5-megawatt hydrogen fuel cell when needed.Markham 's hydrogen is considered green because it is made with intermittent renewable electricity . The facility opened in 2018 after investments of $4.5 million by an Enbridge partnership and $4 million by the federal government . Its operation is supported by a three-year contract from Ontario 's electric system operator to supply surplus renewable power.The system works to level out energy availability but when more hydrogen is created than can be stored , it has to be vented , says Cynthia Hansen , president of gas distribution and storage for Enbridge.A partial solution is to blend the surplus at about two per cent into the local natural gas stream to reduce its overall GHG emissions , a $5.2-million project ( with $221,000 from the federal government ) expected to begin for about 3,600 customers starting next summer.Atco , meanwhile , is building a $6-million hydrogen blending project backed by $2.8 million in Alberta provincial grants and expected to be operational in early 2022 . It is to deliver about five per cent hydrogen in the gas stream to about 5,000 homes in Fort Saskatchewan , a small city just northeast of Edmonton , with the hydrogen coming from an unnamed local supplier . " When it starts up it will be grey and then it will transition to blue as the supply in the area builds out , " said Jason Sharpe , Atco 's general manager of natural gas , estimating it will take two to three years for blue hydrogen to become available.The Fort Saskatchewan area , with its refineries and petrochemical facilities , is ground zero for carbon capture and storage in Alberta.Shell Canada 's Quest project , opened in 2015 , has injected more than five million tonnes of carbon dioxide into underground storage from its oilsands upgrader.The recently completed Alberta Carbon Trunk Line is a pipeline system designed to collect CO2 from industrial sites in the region and take it to mature oilfields where its permanent storage also results in enhanced oil recovery.The global market for hydrogen could easily triple from current levels of about $200 billion per year by 2050 as countries adopt its use as a decarbonization strategy , according to GLJ , a prominent Calgary energy resource consulting firm.Canada is well-positioned to become an exporter into this growing market because of its current and potential production , GLJ said.Pembina 's Jutt , however , says hydrogen usage should be targeted . While it may make sense to use it for home heating in some regions , that application does n't necessarily make sense in B.C. , where energy from renewable hydroelectric sources is potentially more environmentally friendly.Much is riding on promised federal and provincial government regulatory , strategic and financial commitments to hydrogen , as well as other alternative fuels that can help Canada meet its goal of net-zero GHG emissions by 2050 , she added . " Businesses will do what 's right for them from an economic perspective but I think everyone 's looking to government for signals that it 's good to invest in these things -- hydrogen being one of many fuels that we 'll need to reach our 2050 goals . " This report by The Canadian Press was first published Dec. 4 , 2020 . Companies in this story : ( TSX:ENB , TSX:ACO ) Dan Healing , The Canadian Press <p> There is a COVID-19 vaccine on the horizon . But first , winter . We 've been hearing the warnings for weeks . It 's going to be a long , hard few months . People who live in Canada fashion themselves as cold weather warriors -- able to withstand -20 C temperatures . This year , that could be an especially good thing . The advice from medical experts is to resist retreating indoors where COVID-19 is much more easily transmitted . Bundle up , mask up if necessary , and get outside as much as possible . " You know , if you 've ever wanted to learn broomball , this is your chance , " said Dr. Matthew Oughton , an infectious diseases specialist at Montreal 's Jewish General Hospital and an assistant professor at McGill University . But what about masks in winter ? Do they still work if they get wet ? Do you really need to wear them outside anyway ? Here 's some advice for how best to tackle the coming winter pandemic months.Will my mask work if it gets wet and/or freezes ? The short answer is probably not . Oughton , officials from Health Canada and the Centers for Disease Control in the United States pretty much agree that once a mask gets wet , it 's no longer fully effective . And that 's why you should always have back-up masks.There is no concrete , scientific data on mask efficacy in cold weather . However , when you breathe through a mask in cold conditions , the moisture from your warm breath collects on the mask . It tends to stay warm enough on the inside due to your body temperature to remain liquid , but will freeze on the outside . WATCH Why health experts recommend three-layer masks : That leads to two mask issues Oughton said : they become harder to breathe through ; and become less effective at " capturing respiratory droplets and preventing them from leaving the proximity of someone 's mouth and nose . " But that does n't mean they are completely useless , according to Dr. Zain Chagla , an infectious diseases physician at St. Joseph 's Healthcare Hamilton and an associate professor at McMaster University . " Masks offer a little bit more protection , particularly in those settings where people are bunched up outdoors , where there may be a bit more risk of transmission . " Oughton said if you are going to wear a mask outdoors in the cold for a long period of time , you should have two or three back-ups , so you can keep a dry one on.And most important : make sure the mask is cloth . The paper kind -- the surgical style ones -- degrade and tear far more easily when they get wet , said Oughton . Do you really need a mask out in the cold ? It depends on the circumstances . Being outdoors while observing proper distancing measures is " really , really protective " on its own , according to Chagla . He said the documented cases of outdoor transmission of COVID-19 have involved situations like barbecues or people watching a sports event , gathered together for longer periods of time.For activities like going for a walk in your neighbourhood or skating on a not-too-crowded rink , he said the risk of transmission is very low . But he does advise that if you are going in and out of stores , or getting on and off transit while doing errands , it is best to just keep the mask on the whole time to minimize touching the mask and potential contamination . The advice is the same if you are planning to gather with others over the holidays for an outdoor gift exchange or short visit . If you can maintain distance , you should be fine as long as there is no eating and drinking or singing , all of which create more droplets in the air . If you 're going to be closer , exchanging gifts perhaps , best to put on a mask . Is a scarf a good alternative to a mask ? No . Medical experts point out that there is too much variation in scarves and neck gaiters for them to be used as masks . Stitching can be too loose and the material too thin to be an effective barrier to potentially infected droplets -- both going out or coming in.But both physicians agree it might keep your mask from freezing and therefore be more comfortable for the wearer to put a scarf up over it.Cold temps bring runny noses . Here 's how to deal with that joy when you 're wearing a mask . Unfortunately , people tend to pull their mask aside or off when they sneeze or cough , which kind of defeats the purpose of it , Chagla said . " It is horrible to sneeze in a mask , " he said . " I give you that . " But he urges people to make sure they are in an area away from people if they are going to pull it off to sneeze , or even to blow their nose , as that is one of the best ways to spread infection . And be careful when you pull your mask aside to blow your nose . Do n't let it get snotty , both doctors say , and after blowing your nose , sanitize your hands before you replace your mask . So with all the issues with masks , is it best just to stay indoors this winter ? The resounding answer to this one is no . On the contrary . " The indoor stuff is like a hundred times more worrisome than the outdoor stuff , " Chagla said . He cites factors including poor ventilation , crowded rooms , people being together for prolonged periods of time , eating and drinking together . He said this year , people are going to have to change the way they think about socializing if they do n't want to just get stuck for months with the people they live with or having nothing but virtual get-togethers . " I think we have to start changing our attitudes and saying the outdoors is going to be the way . We just have to make it appropriate for people to do it . " Municipalities across the country are coming up with guidelines for outdoor activities , such as skating , to make sure they do n't get too crowded . Many are restricting the number of people allowed on the ice at any given time in order to better maintain a safe distance between skaters , with some bringing in online pre-registration to book ice time.If you go , change your skates in the car or out on a bench , rather than in a public hut , Oughton said.Among other outdoor measures , Toronto is also adding an additional 60 kilometres of paved recreational trails and pathways with snow maintenance and is encouraging communities to apply for permits to build and maintain new rinks . The City of Calgary is also adding to its outdoor options with the North Glenmore Ice Trail , where people can skate 730 metres of connected track and the installation of fire pits in key spots around the city.Todd Reichardt , a Calgary parks manager , said the plans should enable people to maintain social distance and make the most of the season . " There 's something about being outside when it 's cold and you smell like wood smoke , " he said . " It just puts a smile on people 's faces . " In Manitoba , ski resorts have been working on plans to make skiing a safe pandemic activity , while Montreal is setting up cross-country ski trails at each of the city 's large parks , as well as trails for snowshoeing and walking . We 're answering your questions about the pandemic . Send yours to COVID@cbc.ca , and we 'll answer as many as we can . <p> SACRAMENTO , Calif. -- California is on the brink of a new stay-at-home order that would close businesses and curb travel in regions that could see hospitals overwhelmed by coronavirus patients.Gov . Gavin Newsom announced new rules that take effect Saturday , designed to keep local health systems from collapsing under the weight of skyrocketing COVID-19 caseloads . Previous restrictions were based on infection rates in counties.The new order divides the state into five broad regions and restricts those with intensive care unit bed capacity below 15% . On Thursday , Newsom said four regions -- all but the San Francisco Bay area -- could meet that threshold " within a day or two . " California 's virus hospitalizations have nearly quadrupled since mid-October and now stand at 8,240 , including 1,890 in intensive care units . The Department of Public Health reported 19,437 deaths since the start of the pandemic , including 220 health care workers . " If we do n't act now , we 'll continue to see our death rate climb , more lives lost , " Newsom said.Affected regions must close hair salons , barber shops and movie theatres , ban restaurant service except for takeout and delivery , shutter playgrounds , and limit retail stores and shopping centres to 20% customer capacity.The new stay-at-home order will last at least three weeks , cutting sharply into the most profitable shopping season and threatening financial ruin for businesses already struggling after 10 months of on-again , off-again restrictions and slow sales because of the pandemic . " This means no income for the rest of the year , " said Lam Nguyen , who owns a nail salon in the Sacramento suburb of Citrus Heights . " I 'm sad and scared , not only for myself but all my friends with nail and hair salons . A lot of us are in debt . " Amy Lovece , a hairstylist who rents a chair at Salon 544 in downtown San Luis Obispo , said she already lost about half of her yearly income . " It 's sad that ( Newsom ) keeps closing us down . It 's unnecessary because salons are not the problem , " said Lovece , 56 . " For the ones who are following the rules , it 's just not fair . I just go between home and work . I do n't go to parties or bars and I just want to keep working . " Lovece said she was angry that the county was grouped in the Southern California region with counties hundreds of miles away with far greater demands for ICU beds . Only one out of 53 ICU beds in San Luis Obispo county was occupied with a COVID-19 patient as of Thursday.The order is the latest balancing act as the state tries to slow the exploding infection rate -- blamed on people gathering outside of their households -- without further crashing the economy.After California closed all but essential businesses in March , the state lost 2.6 million jobs in two months . About 44% of those jobs returned when restrictions were eased as people heeded social distancing and mask-wearing precautions and new cases fell dramatically.But by fall people were congregating more for holidays and celebrations , while cooler weather drove them inside , where the virus flourishes . California is now averaging nearly 15,000 newly reported cases daily.Public health officials warn that the toll from Thanksgiving gatherings could start to swamp hospitals by Christmas.In the last month , the state imposed restrictions in 52 of the state 's 58 counties , including asking people not to leave the state and implementing an overnight curfew for all but essential trips , such as getting groceries.But it has n't worked because data shows people are ignoring the rules , Dr. Mark Ghaly , the state 's top public health officer , acknowledged Thursday . " We of course had hoped and wanted to see more from that already , but we have n't , " he said.The state might not need such a broad shutdown if it had better data on where people are being infected , said Dr. Jeffrey Klausner , an epidemiologist at the University of California , Los Angeles Fielding School of Public Health.Are stores and nail salons chiefly to blame or should restrictions be focused elsewhere ? Lack of that knowledge reflects " a failure of public health , " Klausner said.He likened the current approach to shutting down food production , restaurants and grocery stores because of a salmonella outbreak . " That 's not the way we traditionally work in public health , " he said.Some counties also have bucked the rules , following cues from state and local elected officials who have criticized the governor for going too far.Shannon Grove , Republican leader in the state Senate , criticized Newsom on Thursday for continuing " to disrupt life as we know it without releasing the full data behind his decisions . " But in Los Angeles County , the nation 's largest with 10 million residents , Sheriff Alex Villanueva announced that his department would be conducting " targeted enforcement on super-spreader events . " The sheriff previously said he had relied on voluntary compliance with health orders.Even state government has felt the impact . Newsom and his family are self-quarantining at home after three of his children were exposed to an infected person . Two staff members in the governor 's office have tested positive for COVID-19 but had n't been in contact with Newsom , the office said.Beginning Monday , state government offices will close for three weeks except for those involved in " critical functions " such as public safety , prisons , social services and unemployment insurance claims processing , according to a Human Resources Department email sent to department leaders , the Sacramento Bee reported.Newsom acknowledged the difficulty in following the rules . But he urged people to stay vigilant and said progress is being made on a vaccine . " There is light at the end of the tunnel , " he said . Associated Press writer Daisy Nguyen in San Francisco contributed to this report.Adam Beam And Kathleen Romayne , The Associated Press <p> In The News is a roundup of stories from The Canadian Press designed to kick-start your day . Here is what 's on the radar of our editors for the morning of Dec. 4 ... What we are watching in Canada ... Premier Doug Ford is expected to unveil Ontario 's COVID-19 vaccine task force today.Ford said yesterday the team is being finalized and the province will be ready to distribute the vaccine whenever it arrives.The task force will include medical , information technology , and logistics experts.Earlier this month , the province announced retired Gen. Rick Hillier will lead the task force . Health Minister Christine Elliott says the team will also include a bioethicist who will make recommendations about who should receive access to the vaccine first . The province 's chief medical officer of health has also said some regions of the province could be moved today into further restricted measures in the province 's pandemic response. ---Also this ... Statistics Canada will say this morning how Canada 's job market fared last month as COVID-19 case counts rose along with a new round of public health restrictions.The labour force has clawed back about three-quarters of the three million jobs lost during lockdowns in March and April.The country has seen six consecutive months of job increases since then , but the pace of gains slowed between September and October.Expectations for November is that the country will eke out another gain. ---What we are watching in the U.S. ... Joe Biden says he will ask Americans to commit to 100 days of wearing masks as one of his first acts as president , stopping just short of the nationwide mandate he 's pushed before to stop the spread of the coronavirus.The move marks a notable shift from U.S. President Donald Trump , whose own skepticism of mask-wearing has contributed to a politicization of the issue . That 's made many people reticent to embrace a practice that public health experts say is one of the easiest ways to manage the pandemic , which has killed more than 275,000 Americans.The president-elect has frequently emphasized mask-wearing as a " patriotic duty " and during the campaign floated the idea of instituting a nationwide mask mandate , which he later acknowledged would be beyond the ability of the president to enforce.Speaking with CNN 's Jake Tapper , Biden said he would make the request of Americans on inauguration day , Jan. 20 . " On the first day I 'm inaugurated , I 'm going to ask the public for 100 days to mask . Just 100 days to mask -- not forever , just 100 days . And I think we 'll see a significant reduction " in the virus , Biden said.Biden also said he asked Dr. Anthony Fauci to stay on in his administration , " in the exact same role he 's had for the past several presidents , " as the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases , the nation 's top infectious-disease expert. ---What we are watching in the rest of the world ... Four people died following an explosion in a silo that holds treated biosolids at a wastewater treatment plant near the southwest England city of Bristol , police said Thursday.Three Wessex Water employees and one contractor died in the incident , which is not being treated as terror-related , Avon and Somerset Police Chief Inspector Mark Runacres said at a media briefing . A fifth person was injured during the explosion at the plant in the industrial area of Avonmouth , but the injuries are not considered life-threatening , Runacres said . " The fire service led the rescue operation but sadly , despite the best efforts of all those involved , we can confirm there have been four fatalities , " he said.Runacres would not speculate on the cause of the explosion . He said it took place in a silo holding organic matter from sewage before it " is recycled to land as an organic soil conditioner . " He said the explosion did not create any ongoing concerns for public safety.British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said " our hearts go out " to the victims and their families. ---On this day in 2008 ... Gov . Gen. Michaelle Jean granted an unprecedented request from Prime Minister Stephen Harper to suspend Parliament until late January , a move that avoided a non-confidence vote set for Dec. 8 , that would have brought down the minority Conservative government. ---In entertainment ... Quebec pianist and composer Andre Gagnon has died at the age of 84 from Lewy body disease , a neurodegenerative disorder.During a career spanning 40 years , Gagnon embraced many styles from baroque , to classical and disco.Born in **26;502;TOOLONG , on the south shore of the St. Lawrence River on Aug. 2 , 1936 , Gagnon composed from the age of six . After attending the Montreal Conservatory of Music , he studied in Paris after obtaining a grant from the Quebec government.The following year , in 1962 , the jack-of-all-trades musician became Claude Leveillee 's official accompanist until 1969 . He also worked with other singers , including Jacques Blanchet , Pierre Calve , Renee Claude , Claude Gauthier , Pauline Julien , Pierre Letourneau , Monique Leyrac. ---ICYMI ... Just days after the discovery of a large party in one of its rental properties , Airbnb says it has a plan to curb New Year 's Eve parties this year while Canada works to slow the spread of the COVID-19 virus.In addition to its ongoing ban on parties , Airbnb now says guests will need a history of positive reviews on its app to reserve an entire home for New Year 's Eve in Canada . The policy also extends to the U.S. , Mexico , Australia , the U.K. , France and Spain . " We believe this plan will help prevent large gatherings while supporting the type of safe , responsible travel that benefits guests , hosts and the neighbourhoods they call home , " the company said . Airbnb is making an exception for one-night bookings made up to Tuesday , based on data that suggest bookings made before early December rarely involve parties. ---This report by The Canadian Press was first published Dec. 4 , 2020The Canadian Press <p> Navigating school this fall has meant a host of new challenges for learners with disabilities , with both students and families often having to advocate anew to receive the same supports and accommodations they received before the pandemic.Rana Nasrazadani completed her undergraduate degree at Toronto 's York University in January , so she escaped last spring 's sudden pivot to emergency remote learning . This fall , however , as she began her graduate studies , she 's found things more difficult and impersonal.Gone are the commute to campus and vibrant in-person group work with classmates . In their place are lectures on Zoom , no break between home and school , and online collaborative sessions kept to a short time frame to prevent video-conferencing overload . Where Nasrazadani previously had in-person conversations with professors about her accessibility and accommodation requirements , " this year , it was mostly just reading the syllabus by myself and then just seeing where I might need more support , " she said . " Now you 're just sending an email and just letting them know ahead of time . " WATCH What some students with disabilities faced this fall But it 's been hard to anticipate and plan for everything , said Nasrazadani , so she 's just going through the experience and raising concerns along the way . She 's personally had good responses from her professors this term , but some of her peers have not . " For the most part , it seems like most students , including me , have to take initiative on their own to to figure out what we need , " said Nasrazadani , also an accessibility and education advocate who serves as a student representative for Ontario 's K-12 education standards development committee.She 's concerned about stories she 's hearing from peers -- and from younger students and families -- not getting what they need or unable to access the same educational supports they had before the pandemic , fuelling worries that learners with disabilities are being impeded from moving forward with their education . " Making sure that students are still being able to get what they need during this time is is integral , " Nasrazadani said . ' It just has n't really measured up'Sahvana Downes and her nine-year-old son Jaxson , who is attending virtual school in Toronto this fall , have not had a good experience this term . The youngster , who has attention deficit hyperactivity disorder ( ADHD ) , could count on " a lot of support and a lot of resources " at school prior to the pandemic , said Downes . " Frankly , those have not translated into virtual learning and into his virtual classroom , " she said . " I expected the same quality education , the same consistency that we see in physical school in the virtual schools and it just has n't really measured up . " The stress and anxiety of falling behind is weighing on Jaxson , she said.He " worries about , when he returns to school in-person , if he 's going to be caught up or if he 's going to be behind .... That 's absolutely my worry as well . " Inconsistency between online classrooms has been frustrating for Downes , a child and youth worker for an autism support program who is currently at home overseeing Jaxson and two other children in virtual school . Where she saw little change after flagging concerns about her son 's situation , " the other two students I 'm working with , their teachers have made like a really good effort to create these accommodations for children . But the problem is that is teacher-specific and those are not board-wide implementations . " Thanks to her prior work experience in education , she 's been able to make adjustments to Jaxson 's schooling -- cutting down on his screen time , for instance , and adapting assignments to be done offline -- but she acknowledges that not every parent has the ability to supervise , support or advocate for their child in the same way . " The general attitude is like this year does n't count . It counts to me , it counts to my son and it counts to a lot of children . " ' Do n't wait until all this is over'The pandemic has indeed shifted more weight and responsibility onto the shoulders of families of students with disabilities and learning challenges , according to Delphine Rule.The Toronto mom of three has turned her experience researching supports for her sons Toby and Liam -- who have learning disabilities , ADHD and anxiety -- into an educational advocacy services organization . Access to Education shares resources for learners with disabilities and aids families trying to figure out education plans.The pandemic has forced " these experts , these people who work with our children and support us as families ... to move their systems online , " Rule said.This has often meant parents or other in-home caregivers have in turn become de facto facilitators for online lessons , therapy sessions , workshops or meetings . Rule , for instance , has added tech troubleshooter to the list of jobs she juggles . " Our kids are having to learn and we 're having to support them -- and that can raise everybody in the house 's anxiety . " Rule also pointed out that not every support translates to our current pandemic reality of online video sessions , which some families might not be able to access in the first place . " For those kids for whom it works , it can be beneficial , " she said . " Every household is going to be different , every child is going to be different ... not all kids can access it the same way . " WATCH Do n't wait until after the pandemic to seek help , says educational services advocate Despite difficulties at the moment , however , Rule encourages families and students to speak up about educational concerns with teachers and administrators at school , as well as to press on with learning support services , even if they 're not exactly operating as usual . " If you are thinking you need to get on a list for something , do n't wait for all of this to be over : contact those agencies , contact the services that you want , " she said . " Many of these agencies and clinics and places that offer support for students are open through referral or are open through email or phone to at least start conversations .... It does n't hurt to have a conversation . " For Edmonton parent Amanda Whiting , the recent years of experience in her daughter 's education ultimately led to home-schooling this fall.Amber Whiting , 13 , has ADHD , dyslexia and health issues that require periodic hospital visits . Though she progressed quickly in a specialized school and had been working through the challenges of integration into a regular classroom last year , the family 's struggle with remote learning this past spring sealed the deal . " In an ideal world , every child would get to learn the way that they learn best and the way that they can be most successful in their learning , " Whiting said . " We 've been so lucky to have such great teachers for Amber over the years and yet , at the same time , she 's a unique individual . Whether it 's during a pandemic or not , she needs to learn in a way that 's unique to her . " Nasrazadani , the accessibility and education advocate , is working to share student voices with the provincial education committee , as well as two subgroups she 's also participating in . " We 're all going through a pandemic , so it is difficult . But I do hope that professors and those at schools understand that students are trying their very best navigating this time . " 
@@52257928 <h> Hunter Henry <h> Latest Stories <p> Saudi Arabia 's foreign minister said on Friday a resolution to a bitter dispute with Qatar seemed " within reach " after Kuwait announced progress towards ending a row that Washington says hampers a united Gulf front against Iran . The United States and Kuwait have worked to end the dispute , during which Saudi Arabia , the United Arab Emirates , Bahrain and Egypt have imposed a diplomatic , trade and travel embargo on Qatar since mid-2017 . <p> Venezuela 's government is encouraging private firms to sign import and export deals with companies in Asia and the Middle East as part of an effort to limit the impact of U.S. sanctions , according to four sources with knowledge of the matter . The plan expands on President Nicolas Maduro 's existing commercial relationships with allies such as Turkey and Iran , which have already been providing the cash-strapped government with food and fuel in exchange for gold . <p> Hundreds of COVID-19 tests conducted at two Ottawa schools detected no new cases , the city 's medical officer of health said Thursday.Public health officials swabbed about 200 staff , students and some of their family members at Manordale Public School in Nepean on Sunday , in addition to about 100 students and staff at another undisclosed school the previous weekend.All the subjects were asymptomatic , and included close contacts of confirmed cases as well as a random sampling of others within the school community , said Dr. Vera Etches . " That 's encouraging so far . We 're going to continue ... to examine the situation in other schools , " Etches told CBC 's Ottawa Morning on Thursday . " We are finding when we bring the testing to the school community , more people are likely to be tested . " In Toronto , similar asymptomatic testing at Thorncliffe Park Public School this past weekend saw 18 students and a staff member test positive.In a statement to CBC , Ottawa-Carleton District School Board ( OCDSB ) spokesperson Darcy Knoll thanked everyone who took part in the voluntary testing . " It is wonderful to see the school community come together in an effort to stop the spread of this virus , " Knoll said.An outbreak was declared at Manordale on Nov. 23 , several days before the asymptomatic testing began . Three students and one staff member tested positive in the outbreak.Ottawa Public Health told CBC it will continue to test in schools where there 's a benefit to the school community , or to its own COVID-19 surveillance work.Anyone with symptoms of COVID-19 , whether they belong to a school community or not , should book a swab at a regular COVID-19 testing centre , public health officials say . <p> City officials say they 'll continue to keep a close eye on Ottawa 's increasingly crowded malls to make sure holiday shoppers are following public health protocols.Bylaw officers will be out in force patrolling shopping centres and big box stores across the city , a city spokesperson said in a statement Thursday . They 'll also be on hand to respond to any complaints.Customers are " reminded to practice physical distancing from others and to ensure their masks are worn properly , " the statement said.Business owners , too , are being reminded to follow protocols aimed at slowing the spread of COVID-19 . " As we head into the holiday shopping season , we encourage business owners to review their current practices and make any necessary changes to ensure they are creating a safer shopping experience , " an Ottawa Public Health ( OPH ) spokesperson said in an email . Shoppers thronged Ottawa 's major malls last weekend in search of Black Friday deals , and the crowds are expected to continue through Christmas and Boxing Day . " We did see some good traffic on Black Friday and leading up to that . I think people are trying to get their shopping out of the way , " said Brian O'Hoski , general manager at Rideau Centre . Both Rideau Centre and St. Laurent Shopping Centre have hired extra security guards to enforce mask rules , and have posted pandemic rules and regulations throughout . More signs show shoppers which way to walk , and where to stand to wait their turn to enter busier stores . " There 's footprints outside each store , and then there 's an overflow line for some of those busier stores , " said Kristina Sparkes , marketing coordinator at St. Laurent Shopping Centre . " We 're also asking people to use a bit of courtesy and common sense . " Both O'Hoski and Sparkes recommend customers visit during non-peak hours to avoid crowds and long waits . <p> CALGARY -- One child asks for a coat for her dog in case her family gets evicted . Another girl hopes Santa can bring her pet medication he needs . Another wishes for enough dog food.A charity that provides subsidized pet care , including food hampers and medical treatment , for low-income residents is receiving Christmas letters from children asking for help for their furry friends.Parachutes for Pets in Calgary has delivered 2,000 pet food hampers since the COVID-19 pandemic hit in March . But demand , especially during the second wave of the pandemic , is taking its toll on both the organization and those receiving help . " Instead of Santa I wanted to write to you guys . My dog Badger is really cute and my best friend . He needs pills or he gets really , really sick . Could you bring me his pills for my Santa gift ? I 've been really good and so has he , " reads a letter signed Hanna and Badger.The organization says it has received 14 letters from children in the last week that normally would have gone to Santa . " My Christmas wish this year is a coat for my dog Max . Mom says we ca n't pay rent after this month and I want Max to be warm if we have to stay in our car , " wrote Kaylee . " I have a warm coat and I think one would be good for him to stay warm . Please tell Santa this is my only wish . Merry Christmas . " Melissa David , who founded the charity , said the messages from the kids are heartbreaking . " Instead of writing to Santa , they 've written to us . Their Christmas wish is either for their dog to get medication and their dog to get food , so they do n't have to share their meal with them . " David said the charity referred Kaylee 's mom , who was at risk of being evicted , with an agency to deal with her rent arrears.She said the charity made it through the first wave of the pandemic , but the resurgence of COVID-19 in the last months has resulted in demands coming at a " fast and furious rate . " " This second wave is going to cripple us . The amount of additional homeless with pets and domestic violence incidents involving pets is astronomical , " David said.People are still donating food items , she said , but there 's also a need for cash , which is in short supply . " This ( pandemic ) in addition to everyday challenges that are still here , such as cancer and illness , is really making it difficult for people to keep their pets at a time they ca n't afford mentally to lose them . " David said she is reaching out in desperation since there are limits on what help the charity can arrange . " We were passed over for most COVID grants because animals were not considered essential . " There are also messages asking for help from physically abused women who are afraid to leave their pets behind . " They want to take their pet with them . They 're at the lowest of lows and they do n't leave with anything but the clothes on their back . And if that pet stays , statistics are 80 per cent that it will be tortured or killed or used as some sort of revenge by the abuser . " The head of the Calgary Women 's Emergency Shelter said crisis calls between April and September were up nearly 65 per cent compared with the year before.Shelter CEO Kim Ruse confirms many women stay where they are for fear of their pets being harmed . " Not having a place for pets to go often stops women from leaving abusive and dangerous situations , " Ruse said . " Many are unaware that there are options for keeping pets safe while finding safety for themselves and their children . " She said the agency does have pet-friendly rooms to accommodate small animals . " Allowing pets in the shelter will help provide emotional and healing support for women and their children during their stay . " This report by The Canadian Press was first published Dec. 4 , 2020-- Follow @BillGraveland on TwitterBill Graveland , The Canadian Press <p> Three Ottawa-area conservation authorities fear major changes proposed by the Ontario government could cost them their voice in development decisions , particularly when it comes to environmentally fragile watersheds.The province began its review of the role of Ontario 's 36 conservation authorities a year and a half ago , but the " sweeping " proposals tucked inside an omnibus budget bill tabled Nov. 5 still " shocked " the general manager of the Rideau Valley Conservation Authority ( RVCA ) . &gt; It is much worse and it goes much further than we ever would have anticipated . - Sommer Casgrain-Robertson , Rideau Valley Conservation Authority " It is much worse and it goes much further than we ever would have anticipated , " said Sommer Casgrain-Robertson . " These changes are so numerous and so significant that it really goes to the heart of what conservation authorities do and how we function . " While the legislation would affect their budgets , mandates and boards of directors , Casgrain-Robertson 's biggest concern relates to a conservation authority 's diminished role in cases where there are concerns about flooding , soil erosion or altering waterways.The changes aim to " streamline " the development permit process , allowing the minister to decide on permit applications and even override a conservation authority 's decision . The bill also allows for appeals to the Local Planning Appeal **27;530;TOOLONG said RVCA staff make local decisions based on science , and she fears development permit applications in watersheds could now become politicized . " We are not an impediment to development , " Casgrain-Robertson said , noting the RVCA approves upward of 95 per cent of development permits and cut wait times by half last year.Government aiming for more accountabilityThe Rideau Valley , Mississippi Valley and South Nation conservation authorities have joined counterparts across Ontario in calling on the government to withdraw the proposals for more work.But Ontario 's minister of the environment , conservation and parks said a minister 's power to take part in the permit process " will be rarely used , if at all , " and would n't " step outside of the science " . Fixes were needed because the appeal process was n't working , Jeff Yurek told CBC Sudbury earlier this week . " What we heard through our consultation was that conservation authorities throughout the entire province were lacking in accountability , transparency and consistency , " he said . The changes to Bill 226 worry Ottawa city council , too , because the boards of conservation authorities would be made up solely of municipal councillors , rather than a mix of councillors and residents with expertise , ostensibly to provide better oversight over the spending of tax dollars.City staff said if the changes go through , nearly every council member would need to take a seat on the board of a conservation authority , and take on the workload associated with it.The Association of Municipalities of Ontario also told the government it had a " growing number of serious concerns , " especially " at a time when the public is very concerned about climate change and increased flooding and storm events . " Ontario 's standing committee on finance and economic affairs held a hearing on Bill 226 earlier this week , and is expected to consider amendments in the coming days . <p> Plexiglass and masks have become a part of everyday life on P.E.I. , but for people with hearing loss , those safety barriers create another obstacle to communication . " That 's making it very difficult for a lot of people to actually comprehend what is being said -- some people ca n't hear , " said Daria Valkenburg , co-president of Hear P.E.I. " I basically limit where I go . So for businesses that do n't have a system where I can hear out there , unless I have to go , I do n't go . So basically that 's what it 's done is it 's limited me . " To help those with hearing loss , Access PEI has installed speech transfer systems in Charlottetown and Summerside.Two stations are set up with the device in Charlottetown . There is a microphone on either side of the station , with speakers on the customer-facing side providing extra volume when needed . There 's also a function that allows certain hearing-aid users to connect directly . " It also has a telecoil , which means that the person speaking has their voice going instantly into the hearing aid or the cochlear implant , meaning that it is completely accessible , " said Valkenburg . " There is such a clarity of sound that it 's unbelievable . " With that method , all the background noise is eliminated , only delivering the audio coming out of the microphone -- handy for busy , noisy places like Access PEI , said Valkenburg . The booths that are equipped with this new technology are marked by a universal hearing loop symbol.For those who do n't have a hearing aid with telecoil , people can get a hearing loop device that allows users to dial into the frequency and hear it through headphones . ' Seemed like a natural fit'The pilot project came about after Access PEI reached out to Hear P.E.I. to see what it could be doing to better serve that community . " It just seemed like a natural fit for us in an attempt to make our sites more accessible , to create a more inviting experience , " said Mark Arsenault , director of Access PEI . " They do n't have to speak loudly , you know , from a privacy perspective .... It 's just your own voice level and their own voice level . So , nobody shouting or anything like that . " While it is just a pilot project right now , Arsenault said he 'd like it expanded across the Island . " Then we 'll look at it from there and see whether or not we need it in every stall or is it just one or two per site , so that we can make sure that we can serve that part of the population perfectly well . " More from CBC P.E.I. <p> JERUSALEM -- The Israeli government on Thursday urged its citizens to avoid travel to the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain , citing threats of Iranian attacks . Iran has been threatening to attack Israeli targets since its chief nuclear scientist , Mohsen Fakhrizadeh , was assassinated last Friday near Tehran . It accuses Israel , which has been suspected in previous killings of Iranian nuclear scientists , of being behind the shooting . Israel has not commented on the killing . But Fakhrizadeh has long been on Israel 's radar screen , with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu saying at a 2018 news conference about Iran 's nuclear program : " Remember that name . " Israel accuses Iran of trying to develop nuclear weapons -- a charge Iran denies . In recent months , Israel has signed agreements establishing diplomatic relations with Gulf Arab states of the UAE and Bahrain -- its first normalization deals with Arab countries in a quarter century . The agreements , brokered by the Trump administration , have generated widespread excitement in Israel , and thousands of Israeli tourists are scheduled to travel to the UAE for the Jewish holiday of Hanukkah this month . That may change following Thursday 's warning . " In light of the threats heard recently by Iranian officials and in light of the involvement in the past of Iranian officials in terror attacks in various countries , there is a concern that Iran will try to act in this way against Israeli targets , " said a statement issued by the prime minister 's National Security Council . It also advised against travel to Georgia , Azerbaijan , Turkey , the Kurdish area of Iraq and Africa . Israel 's military is well prepared to deal with the threats of Iranian troops and their proxies in neighbouring Syria , Lebanon and the Gaza Strip . Israeli media say the government also has beefed up security at embassies around the world . But protecting Israeli travellers , conspicuous and spread out at countless hotels , restaurants and tourist sites , represents a different type of challenge . " This is going to be a nightmare , and I really hope that both governments , UAE and Israel , are co-ordinating and doing the best they can to safeguard those Israelis , " said Yoel Guzansky , a former Israeli counterterrorism official who is now a senior fellow at the Institute for National Security Studies in Tel Aviv . " I 'm really worried that that something might happen , and especially now because of the context of Fakhrizadeh , because Iran is really looking for revenge , " he added . He spoke before the travel advisory was issued . The Israel Airports Authority estimates that about 25,000 Israelis will fly to the UAE this month on the five airlines now plying the route between Tel Aviv and the Gulf state 's airports in Dubai and Abu Dhabi . Celebrities , entrepreneurs and tourists already have been flocking to Dubai . With the coronavirus appearing to be under control in the UAE , it is one of the few quarantine-free travel options for Israelis during the coming Hanukkah holiday vacation , adding to its appeal . At a time when few people are travelling , Israeli visitors speaking Hebrew could be extra conspicuous . Israel this week also signed a tourism agreement with Bahrain . Amsalem Tours , an Israeli travel agency , said that there was " very serious " demand for travel packages to Dubai but did not provide specific figures . Iran and its proxies have targeted Israeli tourists and Jewish communities in the past . Agents of the Lebanese militant Hezbollah group bombed a bus carrying Israeli tourists in Burgas , Bulgaria , in 2012 , killing six and wounding dozens . That year , Israel also accused Iran of being behind attacks targeting Israeli diplomats in Thailand and India . Iran and Hezbollah also bombed the Israeli Embassy and Jewish community centre in Buenos Aires in 1992 and 1994 , claiming the lives of scores of civilians . Concerns for the safety of Israelis in Dubai also is not without precedent . In 2000 , an Israeli ex-colonel was kidnapped by Iranian proxy Hezbollah and held captive in Lebanon until he was released in a prisoner exchange in 2004 . Today , Dubai , famous for its glittering shopping malls , ultra-modern skyscrapers and nightlife , is a crossroads for travellers from around the world , including many nations that do not have relations with Israel . Iran maintains a major presence in Dubai , due to historical and current trade ties , and Dubai is believed to be a major station for Iranian intelligence services . The family of a California-based member of an Iranian militant opposition group in exile says he was abducted by Iran while staying in Dubai just a few months ago . In a possible sign of Emirati security concerns , travel agencies in countries across the Middle East and Africa say the UAE has temporarily halted issuing new visas to their citizens . With tens of thousands of Iranians working or doing business in the UAE , Iran is also among the countries facing the visa restrictions . Israel had already had a travel warning in place advising citizens against nonessential travel to the UAE . Similar " basic concrete threat " advisories are in place for visiting other Arab states with which Israel has peace treaties . But the language of Thursday 's warning was especially tough . The UAE , for its part , is known for its strict security . Dubai , home to 3.3 million people in 2019 , with just over 3 million of them foreigners , has published major crime statistics that are among some of the lowest in the world . Before Israelis began arriving , Dubai held a highly publicized drill of a police SWAT team storming a replica metro car in October and suggested facial-recognition technology could be implemented at stations along its driverless track . Experts already believe the UAE has one of the highest per capita concentrations of surveillance cameras in the world , a system that 's only grown amid the coronavirus pandemic . And despite the recent tensions , Iran may be hesitant to strike on Emirati soil , wanting to maintain its economic interests there . The UAE meanwhile has gone out of its way to say it wants to de-escalate tensions in the region despite its own suspicions over Iranian behaviour . It called the killing of Fakhrizadeh a " heinous assassination . " In an interview before Thursday 's advisory was issued , Pavel Israelsky , co-founder of Salam Dubai , said the boom in his UAE-based Israeli tour operator 's bookings was " significant " ahead of the Hanukkah holiday . While a handful of Israeli clients cancelled over security concerns , he said , " I can say that the UAE is one of the most secure places in the world in terms of the resources they invest in security . " " I do n't think there 's cause for worry , " Israelsky said . " Today , no place is really safe . " Associated Press writers Josef Federman in Jerusalem and Jon Gambrell in Dubai , United Arab Emirates , contributed reporting . Ilan Ben Zion , The Associated Press <p> The number of active COVID-19 cases in Public Health Sudbury &amp; Districts decreased on Thursday as no new cases were reported , and one case was declared resolved . There are now seven active cases of COVID-19 in the region . According to the health unit 's weekly summary , five new cases of COVID-19 were reported in the last seven days and 11 were resolved . Of the new cases , two were close contacts of a confirmed case and two were travel related . The investigation into the exposure category of the 5th case remains ongoing . All five cases were in Greater Sudbury . Public Health 's territory also takes in Espanola , Manitoulin Island and the District of Sudbury . " By end of day on December 2 , contact tracing information was available for all 5 of the new cases , " Public Health said in its weekly report . " Through our investigation , we identified 30 people who had high-risk close contacts with these cases . That is an average of 6 high-risk close contacts per case , which is consistent with last week . " Public Health follows up directly and regularly with every high-risk close contact to monitor them for symptoms , ensure they are self-isolating , and make recommendations for testing according to provincial guidance . " The seven-day incidence rate was 2.5 per 100,000 compared to 9.1 in the previous week . The percent positivity was 0.3 per cent compared to 0.5 per cent last week . Public Health Sudbury and Districts remains in the Yellow-Protect category of the provincial COVID-19 response framework . While Sudbury did n't report any new cases , the same ca n't be said for the rest of Ontario . Ontario reported 1,824 new cases of COVID-19 on Thursday , and 14 new deaths due to the virus . In her message to the community , Medical Officer of Health Dr. Penny Sutcliffe reminded the public about staying safe as the holiday season approaches , and to treat everyone with kindness . " For some of us , the upcoming winter holidays are a time to celebrate and connect with friends and loved ones . For many , the holidays also can be stressful -- and this year , especially so . Remember , you are not alone . Reach out to friends , loved ones , or connect with local agencies and resources , " she said . " Treat yourself with kindness and respect and offer the same to others who may need support . This pandemic is not a forever-thing , but the lives we touch can be . Share a smile ( behind the mask ) , practice patience , and lend a hand when it is least expected . " The Local Journalism Initiative is made possible through funding from the federal government . **25;559;TOOLONG Twitter : @SudburyStar Colleen Romaniuk , Local Journalism Initiative Reporter , The Sudbury Star <p> Clearwater Seafoods is dropping Marine Stewardship Council certification for its Canadian offshore lobster fishery , calling it " a voluntary decision driven by business considerations . " The blue MSC eco-label tells consumers the seafood they are buying is sustainably caught and has been a point of pride for North America 's biggest shellfish producer.Clearwater 's offshore lobster fishery off southern Nova Scotia was the first fishery on the Eastern Seaboard to receive MSC certification in 2010 . The current five-year certification expires at the end of the month . " Clearwater is confident in the ability of this fishery to meet the MSC standard today , but has chosen not to initiate recertification at this time given the internal resources required to support recertification , " Clearwater vice-president Christine Penney said in an email statement to CBC News.Maintaining certification has become more onerous recently for the fishery.Two years ago , Clearwater was convicted of a gross violation when it was caught illegally storing thousands of lobster traps on the ocean floor even after it had been repeatedly warned by Canadian authorities to stop the practice because it was a conservation risk . The traps were left on the bottom with escape hatches open , but continued to catch and kill lobsters.The conviction triggered a Marine Stewardship Council audit and new conditions were imposed to demonstrate compliance . " The question comes to mind whether they 're unable to show that evidence and therefore they would n't pass the certification , " said Shannon Arnold , an environmentalist with the Ecology Action Centre in Halifax . " And so by just walking away from it , they 're not forced to show that to the consumers that they 're actually fishing within the law . " Clearwater defends lobster fisheryClearwater said the fishery was always and remains sustainable . " While Clearwater has chosen not to enter into recertification of the offshore fishery MSC program at the end of 2020 , the sustainability measures that were in place for 10 years of successful certification continue to be in effect , " said Penney . " The offshore lobster fishery remains sustainable . The fishery has not been suspended or failed , and it maintains its current certificate until December 2020 . " The Marine Stewardship Council declined to directly comment on Clearwater 's decision to drop its lobster certification . " Clearwater is a long-standing partner of the MSC , and its other MSC-certified fisheries in Canada and globally remain in our voluntary program , " spokesperson Vianna Murday said in a statement.Other core Canadian species are staying with the council.They include offshore scallops , snow crab , arctic surf clam , cold water shrimp and lobster harvested in the Maritimes by an inshore fleet independent of the company.Clearwater said an internal tracing system will allow it to separate lobster it buys from the inshore and the 720 tonnes it harvests under its offshore licences . " This fishery accounts for a small portion of Clearwater lobster volumes , and the use of the eco-label is very limited on products from this fishery , " Penney said.Partnership buying companyClearwater is in the process of being sold . If approved by shareholders , the new owner of the company will be a partnership between Premium Brands of British Columbia and a coalition of Mi'kmaw First Nations led in part by the Membertou band in Cape Breton.Membertou had previously bought two of the eight offshore licences held by Clearwater . No one from the band was available for comment.Clearwater management and the company lobster boat , the Randell Dominaux based in Shelburne , N.S. , will continue to run the coveted offshore lobster fishery.Offshore lobster fisheryClearwater has enjoyed exclusive rights to Lobster Fishing Area 41 , which starts 80 kilometres from shore and runs to the 200-mile limit , extending from Georges Bank to the Laurentian Channel between Cape Breton and Newfoundland.The company fishes entirely off southern Nova Scotia . Unlike every other lobster fishery , there is no season and Clearwater has been awarded a quota of 720 tonnes , which it has said represents about 15 per cent of all lobster it sells.For environmentalists like Arnold , the loss of Marine Stewardship Council certification is a blow . " That transparency from the MSC process , that extra layer , is what really allowed us to dig in and see what was happening with this fishery in the offshore and how they were fishing outside the legal boundaries , " she said . " So we 're concerned that we 're losing that level of oversight . " MORE TOP STORIES <p> A Brampton college student is accusing his school of mishandling his complaint about a fellow student after it dismissed anti-Sikh comments the man made to him during an online class , referring to the statements simply as " historical fact . " Prabhjot Singh , 25 , says he was making a presentation via Zoom to his immigration class at CDI College in Mississauga in October when he was interrupted by another student . " He jumped into my presentation and he said all the people from Punjab are frauds , " Singh told CBC News from his Brampton home.Singh says the student then referred to the killing of thousands of Sikhs in India 36 years ago following the assassination of Prime Minister Indira Gandhi by her Sikh bodyguards . " ' I know you are Sikh , you are from Punjab . Did you forget how you guys were slaughtered in 1984 ? " ' Singh quotes the student as saying . He says the remarks were all the more hurtful because some of his relatives were killed in the violence . ' Nobody can forget what happened ' " Nobody can forget what happened , " Singh explained during the interview with CBC News . " Family members ... seeing a person burned alive . " Singh says he felt threatened , and that the instructor in the class made no attempt to intervene and stop the verbal attack . " I was feeling ashamed , I was feeling ... a victim of harassment , " he said . But when Singh lodged a formal complaint with CDI College , he says he received a call from the school 's educational manager , Mary Liideman , who said that the student was making comments about a " historical fact . " Singh also filed complaints about the student 's remarks with Peel Regional Police and with the World Sikh Organization of Canada ( WSO ) . The WSO says it wrote to the college explaining the significance of the 1984 anti-Sikh violence , " and the serious nature of the threats made against Prabhjot Singh . " CDI , a private , for-profit career college with 23 campus locations across Canada , replied that an internal investigation " determined that although culturally insensitive remarks were made , there were no direct threats " to Singh.The WSO 's vice president for Ontario , Sharanjeet Kaur , calls what happened to Singh outrageous , " however it is equally shocking that CDI College would dismiss threats that reference the 1984 Sikh Genocide as ' historical fact ' and merely ' culturally insensitive. ' " 1984 attacks called a ' genocide'The sectarian bloodshed started after the Indian Army launched an attack on Sikh militants in the Golden Temple in Amritsar , a site sacred to Sikhs . Gandhi 's subsequent murder led to a wave of bloody reprisals . India has said fewer than 3,000 people died in the attacks against Sikhs , but some Sikh leaders say the number is closer to 10,000 . In Canada , Crown lawyers at the Air India bombing trial stemming from the 1985 attack that killed 329 people on a flight from Montreal to New Delhi , alleged it was the work of Sikh militants who were seeking revenge for the temple attack and the post-assassination violence . In 2018 , federal NDP Leader Jagmeet Singh called on Canada to declare the killings a genocide -- saying there is clear evidence the 1984 attacks on Sikhs by Hindus were not spontaneous , but rather organized by the government . College reopening investigationAfter CBC News contacted CDI about Singh 's story , the college said in a statement it 's reopening its investigation . " Upon reflection it is clear that this did not properly address Mr. Prabhjot Singh 's concerns , " wrote Rodney D'Souza , the associate regional director of operations for CDI in central Canada.The student who made the remarks was sent a warning letter , the college says . He and Singh have since graduated from the Mississauga campus , but the college says it nonetheless " will be following up with staff disciplinary action for lack of appropriate action and sensitivity when the incident occurred . " D'Souza added that while what happened was an isolated incident , regular mandatory diversity and inclusion training for all staff will also be instituted . " We feel it is extremely important for all staff and instructors to be aware of how they can best support their students and fellow colleagues through any distressing or inappropriate situations that may arise . " <p> When Bob Murphy began his search for an affordable housing unit in Toronto , he said the process felt something like blindly throwing darts at a map.As a person with a disability on a fixed income , Murphy 's options for an affordable unit within the Toronto Community Housing system were even further limited . " You 're just basically looking at an address on a map and just picking five choices you would possibly want , " he said of the process.Three years later , he says there 's been no movement on his application , and a total lack of communication about the status of his search.Murphy says he 's now resigned to quietly languishing on Toronto 's massive waiting list for affordable housing , which numbers 79,768 according to the city 's latest count . " I call it the never , ever housing list , " said Murphy , who also volunteers with the advocacy group ACORN Canada . " I do n't plan on anything ever developing from this list . " Frustrating experiences like Murphy 's are now driving a push to transform the city 's outdated affordable housing application system , which has been described as an inconvenient relic from a pre-digital age . " It 's a barrier to entry , " said Mark Richardson , an affordable housing activist behind the grassroots organization HousingNowTO . He 's critical of the current system 's reliance on physical documentation and the need for applicants to frequently update their files . " I think it 's a cumbersome system for people who are looking for housing , " said Toronto Deputy Mayor Ana Bail ? o , who is also the chair of the city 's planning and housing committee.All eyes on NYCImprovements to Toronto 's affordable housing application process could make the system easier to access , more responsive , and ultimately more capable of matching applicants with suitable housing , say those calling for change.Those advocates can now point to New York City , which in June rolled out a similarly ambitious makeover of its affordable housing application system to early positive reviews.Prospective tenants in New York can now access and update their applications on a smartphone , and the streamlined system is said to be more effective at matching tenants to possible homes . " I think it would make a major difference and possibly create a little bit more hope , " said Murphy of New York 's revamped system.Richardson said a more sophisticated and intuitive system could also remove a burden on applicants to apply for various lotteries when new units become available . Rather than applying for a handful of buildings like Murphy has done , an improved system could match tenants with any building with an availability . " You 're not waiting to see some sign up on the side of the building , or the sign in a lobby of a building saying some units are becoming available , " Richardson said.Change coming early next year , city saysBail ? o calls the updated system in New York " a great example " and said Toronto 's social housing application process will take cues from it for its next update . " It is an excellent system and that 's what I 'm hoping we 're going to be able to roll out in Toronto , " she said.She said that could happen as soon as the first quarter of 2021 for subsidized units in the Toronto Community Housing network . The same system would later be used for other forms of affordable housing , including below-market-rate units , Bail ? o said.A recent pilot project that tested an enhanced application system created the equivalent of 200 new units by more efficiently matching tenants to homes , she added.Despite possible improvements to the application process , Toronto will still have to grapple with a demand for affordable housing that still vastly exceeds the current supply of units.The city 's HousingTO plan has a target of 40,000 new affordable housing units by 2030 , which covers about half the applicants currently on the city 's waiting list . <p> In the midst of the worst public health emergency in a century and the greatest economic disruption since the Great Depression , Erin O'Toole apparently also sees a culture war playing out . " It comes down to a clash of vision , " the Conservative leader told the House of Commons on Monday , " between the ' Somewheres ' and the ' Anywheres ' -- those who love their trade , their pursuit , and are loyal to local businesses , versus those whom the government wants to flock to a trendy job that is no way connected to the community or the betterment of our country . " The question now is what , if anything , O'Toole wants to do to either bridge the divide or stoke this supposed conflict.Readers of Stephen Harper 's book Right Here , Right Now , published in 2018 , will be familiar with O'Toole 's framing . The former prime minister was quite taken with the idea that many Western democracies can be divided between rooted " Somewheres " and relatively rootless " Anywheres " . But the theory originated with David Goodhart , a British writer whose own book , The Road to Somewhere , linked the Brexit vote to leave the European Union -- and other populist revolts , including the election of Donald Trump -- to divisions over culture and identity.In short , Goodhart posits that the traditional politics of left and right , liberal and conservative , are now overlaid by a " larger and looser " distinction " between the people who see the world from Anywhere and the people who see it from Somewhere . " Urban cosmopolitans vs. small-town valuesAccording to Goodhart , the typical Anywhere is a well-educated professional living in a large city away from where they grew up . They generally vote for left-of-centre parties . They are mobile , embrace change and take " egalitarian and meritocratic attitudes on race , sexuality and gender and think that we need to push on further . " They do not entirely accept the idea of a borderless world but are individualist and internationalist in disposition and " are not strongly attached to larger group identities , including national ones . " In Goodhart 's words , " they value autonomy and self-realisation before stability , community and tradition . " The average Somewhere , he says , is less well-educated , earns a lower income , comes from a small town or a suburb and is more grounded in a specific place . " They do not generally welcome change and older Somewheres are nostalgic for a lost Britain , " Goodhart writes . " They place a high value on security and familiarity and have strong group attachments , local and national . " They tend to vote for conservative parties.These Somewheres , Goodhart adds , " accept the equality revolution but still value traditional family forms and are suspicious of ' anything goes ' attitudes . " They are not authoritarians , he writes , but they " regret the passing of a more structured and tradition bound world . " Attitudes toward immigration , Goodhart says , " have probably become the single biggest litmus test of Anywhere/Somewhere difference and over time have come to stand for more general attitudes toward social change and whether people feel comfortable with and feel they benefit from it , or not . " ( Canada , he notes , is a " partial exception " to the rule that " large scale immigration " is universally unpopular . ) The Anywheres , Goodhart argues , have been dominant in culture and society and must now be more conscious of how their fellow citizens from Somewhere are feeling.Like any tidy explanation , this theory has notable gaps and limitations to it , as does Harper 's application of it . Goodhart acknowledges that these are not monolithic groups . It 's also impossible to explain the election of Donald Trump without examining the pivotal role played by racial resentment.But broadly , it could be argued that both Brexit and Trump were driven by voters who felt uncomfortable with , or even disempowered by , the last 50 years of social and economic change , and who were consequently energized by populist , nationalist campaigns.Does a meaningful divide along those lines exist in Canada ? O'Toole is at least not the first person to suggest it.He may have been building up to this Somewheres/Anywheres theory for a while . He has argued some Canadians have been " left behind " by the Trudeau government 's agenda . He takes issue with those who would like to topple statues of John A. Macdonald and remove the first prime minister 's name from buildings . In a speech in October , O'Toole said " middle-class Canadians " had been betrayed by " political elites , financial elites and cultural elites . " " These elites have only one set of values centred on unchecked globalization and political correctness , " O'Toole argued , " while middle-class Canadians have another set rooted in family , home and nation . " " While this prime minister seems to think that every Canadian can simply work on their laptop from the local caf ? , " O'Toole said Monday , " that is not reality , nor is it what Canadians want . Conservatives are here to fight for those who build things in Canada , those who get their hands dirty and take pride in doing a job well before they come home for the night . " Purity and corruptionTo burnish his credentials among those who " get their hands dirty , " O'Toole said that his first job in high school was dishwasher and short-order cook . He did not mention that he went on to become a corporate lawyer in Toronto and in-house counsel to a major multinational corporation ( Procter &amp; Gamble ) . Asked in September whether he saw himself as a populist , O'Toole said he was simply " trying to address the hopes , aspirations and concerns of Canadians . " But nearly every politician in the history of civilization would say they were doing more or less the same thing.Populism is more usefully defined as an ideology that suggests society can be divided between the ' pure ' public and the ' corrupt ' elite . It is based in conflict . And O'Toole seems willing to embrace the idea of a fundamental clash between middle-class Canadians and the elites , between the Somewheres and the Anywheres -- or at least to accuse the Liberal government of working to make sure there are a lot more Anywheres everywhere.Many of those who work so-called " trendy " jobs ( O'Toole did n't actually state which career paths qualify as trendy ) might counter that they do feel connected to their communities and are equally engaged with the betterment of their country . Trudeau 's Liberals would certainly argue that many of their policies have improved the lives of middle-class Canadians -- these Liberals have embraced a rhetorical focus on the " middle class , " subsequently extending their mantra to include " those working hard to join it . " But O'Toole 's hints at a political philosophy only lead to more questions . If there is a fundamental disconnect in Canadian society , how willing is he to exploit it ? If there are frustrations or resentments -- if many Canadians truly are being left out or left behind -- what solutions does he propose ? O'Toole has lamented that wages have stagnated , private sector union membership has dropped and many Canadians no longer have robust pensions or benefits . What would he do to address those things ? O'Toole 's Conservatives like to say that Canada has become more divided since Justin Trudeau became prime minister , an argument that rests heavily on the idea of " Western alienation . " But would O'Toole 's approach produce less division -- or would it simply anger a different set of people ? Should those whose opinions are more in line with the Anywheres worry that their priorities would be neglected or attacked under an O'Toole government ? Division and frustration can be used to drive political campaigns , but it 's not obvious that they make it any easier to govern . Durable , lasting change typically requires broad support . <p> Health-care workers feel muzzled and alone : Study Colleen Romaniuk Health-care workers in Ontario are on the frontlines in the fight against COVID-19 , but according to a new study , they are feeling " sacrificed " and " violated " by their employers and the provincial government . Researchers affiliated with the University of Windsor in collaboration with CUPE 's Ontario Council of Hospitals Union co-authored a report titled " Sacrificed : Ontario Healthcare Workers in the Time of COVID-19 . " Health-care workers represent 20 per cent of all COVID-19 cases in the province , according to the study , a number that is much higher than the global rate of 14 per cent . Due to fear of reprisal , those on the frontlines are extremely hesitant to speak out -- but those who participated in the study told a story of " dismal " working conditions and " unrelenting " stress . " Health-care workers in Ontario are suffering from much higher rates of COVID-19 infection than the general public , " said Dr. James Brophy , one of the lead authors of the new study . " While we are all facing COVID-fatigue and worry , health-care workers are suffering disproportionately from serious psychological distress . They are burning out from overwork , fear and anxiety . " Led by Dr. Brophy and Dr. Margaret Keith , the study examines in-depth , anonymous interviews conducted with 10 health-care workers who work in hospitals and long-term care facilities throughout Ontario . The respondents , who work in facilities that range from small northern-rural to large urban , were contacted by phone in April and May . Frontline workers , including PSWs , RNs , RPNs , and custodial and clerical staff , all reported feeling unprotected and unsupported in their place of work . " We have lost about 100 staff who have either taken a leave of absence because of fear or have taken a leave to go work other jobs . We have a few who have taken early retirement , " said a participant in the study . " When I leave this interview , I 'm heading into work and I 'm going to work 44 out of the next 60 hours . I 've prepared enough food for six meals and they 're in two shopping bags right now . That 's what it 's doing to me . " Some interviewees reported going home to cry after their shifts , sleeping in separate bedrooms away from their spouses , and experiencing increased social isolation because they fear infecting their family and friends . " The words on the page can not convey the level of emotion we heard in the voices of healthcare workers we interviewed , " said Brophy . " We did not expect to hear the degree of anger and desperation that came out . The stories they told us were tinged with anger , frustration and fear . " There are a number of factors that contribute to the distress of health-care workers in the province , including inadequate protection against the virus , government failings , and barriers to exercising their agency . The study suggests that the provincial government , for example , has not applied the " precautionary principle " identified by the SARS Commission in 2006 which stipulates that , when in doubt , policies should err on the side of caution . " An ongoing debate that has direct impact on health-care workers ' safety is whether or not the virus can be transmitted through airborne particles , " said the study . " The evidence has grown that SARS-CoV-2 can indeed become aerosolized through coughing , sneezing , or even just breathing . " These tiny , aerosolized particles can breach surgical masks , according to Brophy . Researchers have recommended the use of N95 masks or powered air-purifying respirators for more adequate protection . Surgical masks are still considered safe for use in a health-care setting under most circumstances , although the health-care workers that participated in the study expressed some skepticism . " I had an infected patient on one of my shifts . I had my own N95 mask and I had my own goggles , and I had my own hair cover and I made sure I double gloved , " said an interviewee . " I put the cheap level two mask over top of my N95 . " The study suggests that the government 's policy was probably " supply-based rather than science-based . " Another contributing factor is the health-care workers ' lack of recourse when it comes to addressing these challenges . Employers generally do n't allow their workers to speak publicly about their experiences at work , and , according to reports , the Ministry of Labour has been unhelpful . " All the frontline workers fear reprisal . We are told , ' You ca n't talk to the media . You have to send your manager to talk to them . We have corporate relations . You ca n't be outside holding signs ' , " said one individual . " It 's just a travesty and these issues need to be said and people need to know what 's really going on . " Another said that they were " disheartened " by the Ministry of Labour during the pandemic . " They 've totally taken the employers ' side and not the workers . There is no consultation with any frontline worker , " they said . " The ministry is not showing up to calls . They 're doing a lot of phone calls , but it 's not how they should be working . They still need to be out there on the frontlines . They should use PPE and come out to the hospital if we 're saying it 's not safe . " Michael Hurley , the president of CUPE 's Ontario Council of Hospitals Union and co-author of the study , explained that health-care workers have a limited right to refuse unsafe work . " They ca n't refuse if it would result in a danger to a patient or resident , " said Hurley . " The evidence shows that in every case when the Ministry of Labour was called in , they did not support the workers . " To address these issues , the study recommends increasing staffing levels , adequate PPE and protective administrative and engineering controls , increased mental health supports , and reinvestment into a " weakened public health-care system . " There also needs to be a chance in workplace culture so that health-care workers concerns will be heard , respected , and addressed . " Health-care workers ' health and wellbeing is essentially being sacrificed . We all need to pay attention to their pleas during this frightening time , " said Dr. Margaret Keith . " Not only does their wellbeing matter , but we also need to realize if they are not being kept safe , they ca n't properly care for their patients or residents . " The Local Journalism Initiative is made possible through funding from the federal government . **25;586;TOOLONG Twitter : @SudburyStar Colleen Romaniuk , Local Journalism Initiative Reporter , The Sudbury Star <p> In The News is a roundup of stories from The Canadian Press designed to kick-start your day . Here is what 's on the radar of our editors for the morning of Dec. 4 ... What we are watching in Canada ... Premier Doug Ford is expected to unveil Ontario 's COVID-19 vaccine task force today.Ford said yesterday the team is being finalized and the province will be ready to distribute the vaccine whenever it arrives.The task force will include medical , information technology , and logistics experts.Earlier this month , the province announced retired Gen. Rick Hillier will lead the task force . Health Minister Christine Elliott says the team will also include a bioethicist who will make recommendations about who should receive access to the vaccine first . The province 's chief medical officer of health has also said some regions of the province could be moved today into further restricted measures in the province 's pandemic response. ---Also this ... Statistics Canada will say this morning how Canada 's job market fared last month as COVID-19 case counts rose along with a new round of public health restrictions.The labour force has clawed back about three-quarters of the three million jobs lost during lockdowns in March and April.The country has seen six consecutive months of job increases since then , but the pace of gains slowed between September and October.Expectations for November is that the country will eke out another gain. ---What we are watching in the U.S. ... Joe Biden says he will ask Americans to commit to 100 days of wearing masks as one of his first acts as president , stopping just short of the nationwide mandate he 's pushed before to stop the spread of the coronavirus.The move marks a notable shift from U.S. President Donald Trump , whose own skepticism of mask-wearing has contributed to a politicization of the issue . That 's made many people reticent to embrace a practice that public health experts say is one of the easiest ways to manage the pandemic , which has killed more than 275,000 Americans.The president-elect has frequently emphasized mask-wearing as a " patriotic duty " and during the campaign floated the idea of instituting a nationwide mask mandate , which he later acknowledged would be beyond the ability of the president to enforce.Speaking with CNN 's Jake Tapper , Biden said he would make the request of Americans on inauguration day , Jan. 20 . " On the first day I 'm inaugurated , I 'm going to ask the public for 100 days to mask . Just 100 days to mask -- not forever , just 100 days . And I think we 'll see a significant reduction " in the virus , Biden said.Biden also said he asked Dr. Anthony Fauci to stay on in his administration , " in the exact same role he 's had for the past several presidents , " as the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases , the nation 's top infectious-disease expert. ---What we are watching in the rest of the world ... Four people died following an explosion in a silo that holds treated biosolids at a wastewater treatment plant near the southwest England city of Bristol , police said Thursday.Three Wessex Water employees and one contractor died in the incident , which is not being treated as terror-related , Avon and Somerset Police Chief Inspector Mark Runacres said at a media briefing . A fifth person was injured during the explosion at the plant in the industrial area of Avonmouth , but the injuries are not considered life-threatening , Runacres said . " The fire service led the rescue operation but sadly , despite the best efforts of all those involved , we can confirm there have been four fatalities , " he said.Runacres would not speculate on the cause of the explosion . He said it took place in a silo holding organic matter from sewage before it " is recycled to land as an organic soil conditioner . " He said the explosion did not create any ongoing concerns for public safety.British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said " our hearts go out " to the victims and their families. ---On this day in 2008 ... Gov . Gen. Michaelle Jean granted an unprecedented request from Prime Minister Stephen Harper to suspend Parliament until late January , a move that avoided a non-confidence vote set for Dec. 8 , that would have brought down the minority Conservative government. ---In entertainment ... Quebec pianist and composer Andre Gagnon has died at the age of 84 from Lewy body disease , a neurodegenerative disorder.During a career spanning 40 years , Gagnon embraced many styles from baroque , to classical and disco.Born in **26;613;TOOLONG , on the south shore of the St. Lawrence River on Aug. 2 , 1936 , Gagnon composed from the age of six . After attending the Montreal Conservatory of Music , he studied in Paris after obtaining a grant from the Quebec government.The following year , in 1962 , the jack-of-all-trades musician became Claude Leveillee 's official accompanist until 1969 . He also worked with other singers , including Jacques Blanchet , Pierre Calve , Renee Claude , Claude Gauthier , Pauline Julien , Pierre Letourneau , Monique Leyrac. ---ICYMI ... Just days after the discovery of a large party in one of its rental properties , Airbnb says it has a plan to curb New Year 's Eve parties this year while Canada works to slow the spread of the COVID-19 virus.In addition to its ongoing ban on parties , Airbnb now says guests will need a history of positive reviews on its app to reserve an entire home for New Year 's Eve in Canada . The policy also extends to the U.S. , Mexico , Australia , the U.K. , France and Spain . " We believe this plan will help prevent large gatherings while supporting the type of safe , responsible travel that benefits guests , hosts and the neighbourhoods they call home , " the company said . Airbnb is making an exception for one-night bookings made up to Tuesday , based on data that suggest bookings made before early December rarely involve parties. ---This report by The Canadian Press was first published Dec. 4 , 2020The Canadian Press <p> Premier Blaine Higgs ' concern that the COVID-19 pandemic could threaten the long-term financial support New Brunswick receives from Ottawa has turned out to be prophetic , a new report by a national think-tank shows.Ben Eisen and Milagros Palacios of the Fraser Institute released a study Thursday suggesting contractions in the economy caused by the pandemic and other forces are flattening economic differences across the country and hastening the creation of new have-not provinces . The new order would dilute the federal government 's critical $21 billion equalization program -- New Brunswick 's most important source of support . " It 's a fundamentally transformative change , " Eisen said in an interview . " Where there used to be a big gap between the so-called haves and have-nots , I 'm not even sure that bifurcation makes sense any more . " Five have-not provinces are currently eligible for money under the program 's formula , including Manitoba , Quebec and all three Maritime provinces.As Canada 's poorest province , New Brunswick is receiving a record $2.2 billion in equalization funding this year , 10.7 per cent of the entire federal funding pool . The amount to New Brunswick has grown by $502 million in the last four years , an amount boosted in part when Ontario stopped receiving money two years ago . But as quickly as equalization payments can escalate for poor provinces when national economic disparities are growing , they can also recede , either by a poor province getting richer or rich provinces getting poorer . Eisen said economic data has been revealing a steady " convergence " between rich and poor provinces for several years that has accelerated during the pandemic , moving some like Newfoundland and Labrador and Ontario close to requalifying for equalization money . He claimed changes are so dramatic it is not out of the question that Alberta will become a have-not province in this decade , a development with major implications for provinces currently in the equalization pool . " There 's a set amount of equalization dollars . If a new province becomes eligible for equalization payments , what 's left for the other provinces that were receiving them before goes down , " said Eisen . " If you think of everyone eating a pizza and one more person comes and sits down , that 's obviously less for the people who were there before . Equalization is no different . " Tombe is an associate professor of economics at the University of Calgary and one of Canada 's leading experts on equalization.He calls research behind the new study " top notch , " but says it is difficult to predict what will happen in the near term . " Forecasting these days is tricky , to say the least , " Tombe said in a message Thursday.Equalization is based on three-year rolling averages of economic activity and works from a formula completely in the hands of the federal government , which can change the formula as it wishes . The formula also has protections built in to shield the poorest of provinces and , according to Tombe , that means equalization cuts are less of a threat to New Brunswick than to Nova Scotia , Quebec and Manitoba . " Those ( with economies ) furthest from the national average will tend to gain relative to those closer to it , " Tombe said . " Hence Prince Edward Island and New Brunswick are n't as likely to be adversely affected . " Higgs has been expressing concern since last spring about the federal government 's ability to sustain funding of the equalization program and the effect Alberta 's economic troubles might have on how the formula works . &gt; Given the projections of the hole being dug federally , it 's like , ' we wo n't worry about that today . ' Well , for me , I 'm very worried about it . - Premier Blaine Higgs " I 'm very concerned about next year and our transfer payments , because I do n't know what 's left in the federal government , " he said in May . " Given the projections of the hole being dug federally , it 's like , ' well , we wo n't worry about that today . We 'll worry about that tomorrow or the next day , ' or maybe someone believes they 'll never have to worry about it . Well , for me , I 'm very worried about it and very concerned . " Eisen believes it 's likely more provinces will qualify for equalization , and that provinces in the program should prepare for what that could mean . " It 's important to recognize this is a development that could very well affect the budgets of Maritime provinces , " he said . <p> CALGARY -- It seems like a no-brainer to use clean-burning hydrogen to offset the environmental negatives of natural gas for warming homes , but pilot projects to do just that starting next year illustrate nothing is simple about this trendy new energy source.As companies consider ways to commercialize hydrogen as a cleaner alternative fuel and projects advance in Fort Saskatchewan , Alta. , and Markham , Ont. , most observers concede it will take time and government support to overcome its cost competitiveness issues and lack of infrastructure . " All hydrogen is not created equal , " says Tahra Jutt , director of the clean economy program for B.C. with environmental think tank The Pembina Institute and co-author of a hydrogen primer published in July . " If you blend the lowest carbon hydrogen , you 're going to get a much better outcome in terms of climate benefit . " Hydrogen has many advantages as an energy source . When it burns it leaves only water behind -- no carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gases . It can be used for high-energy-intensity applications such as trucking , shipping and steelmaking . It can be compressed for energy storage and transportation . It 's non-toxic and dissipates quickly when released.But there are disadvantages , too . Its low ignition temperature and nearly invisible flame when burning pose potential safety issues . Concentrated hydrogen can damage metal , requiring enhanced protection for pipelines . The act of creating hydrogen requires energy , whether to tear apart water molecules with the electrolysis method or breaking down natural gas molecules through thermal processes which themselves create greenhouse gases . " The economics in our view for blue and green ( hydrogen ) are challenged right now but support will increase , costs are bound to come down , so ( it 's ) another good opportunity for us to capitalize on our infrastructure , " said Al Monaco , CEO of pipeline company Enbridge Inc. , on a recent conference call , echoing the cautious stance taken by many industry leaders.Almost all of the hydrogen created in Canada today is considered " grey , " created by burning fossil fuel and then used in industrial processes such as refining petroleum or producing fertilizer . Pembina estimates it costs between 91 cents and $1.42 per kilogram to make.If the carbon dioxide and other pollutants from making grey hydrogen are captured and stored , it becomes " blue " hydrogen , but the cost jumps to between $1.34 and $1.85 per kilogram . " Green " hydrogen is separated from water using only renewable electricity and , while it is the most environmentally benign , it is also the most expensive at between $3 and $5 per kilogram , according to Pembina.Utility subsidiaries of Enbridge and Atco Ltd. are embarking on plans to inject hydrogen into the natural gas stream leading to home furnaces and water heaters in Markham and Fort Saskatchewan . Electricity ca n't be stored as is , but at Enbridge 's power-to-gas facility in Markham it is used to create hydrogen from water that can be stored until eventually being turned back into electricity with Enbridge 's 2.5-megawatt hydrogen fuel cell when needed.Markham 's hydrogen is considered green because it is made with intermittent renewable electricity . The facility opened in 2018 after investments of $4.5 million by an Enbridge partnership and $4 million by the federal government . Its operation is supported by a three-year contract from Ontario 's electric system operator to supply surplus renewable power.The system works to level out energy availability but when more hydrogen is created than can be stored , it has to be vented , says Cynthia Hansen , president of gas distribution and storage for Enbridge.A partial solution is to blend the surplus at about two per cent into the local natural gas stream to reduce its overall GHG emissions , a $5.2-million project ( with $221,000 from the federal government ) expected to begin for about 3,600 customers starting next summer.Atco , meanwhile , is building a $6-million hydrogen blending project backed by $2.8 million in Alberta provincial grants and expected to be operational in early 2022 . It is to deliver about five per cent hydrogen in the gas stream to about 5,000 homes in Fort Saskatchewan , a small city just northeast of Edmonton , with the hydrogen coming from an unnamed local supplier . " When it starts up it will be grey and then it will transition to blue as the supply in the area builds out , " said Jason Sharpe , Atco 's general manager of natural gas , estimating it will take two to three years for blue hydrogen to become available.The Fort Saskatchewan area , with its refineries and petrochemical facilities , is ground zero for carbon capture and storage in Alberta.Shell Canada 's Quest project , opened in 2015 , has injected more than five million tonnes of carbon dioxide into underground storage from its oilsands upgrader.The recently completed Alberta Carbon Trunk Line is a pipeline system designed to collect CO2 from industrial sites in the region and take it to mature oilfields where its permanent storage also results in enhanced oil recovery.The global market for hydrogen could easily triple from current levels of about $200 billion per year by 2050 as countries adopt its use as a decarbonization strategy , according to GLJ , a prominent Calgary energy resource consulting firm.Canada is well-positioned to become an exporter into this growing market because of its current and potential production , GLJ said.Pembina 's Jutt , however , says hydrogen usage should be targeted . While it may make sense to use it for home heating in some regions , that application does n't necessarily make sense in B.C. , where energy from renewable hydroelectric sources is potentially more environmentally friendly.Much is riding on promised federal and provincial government regulatory , strategic and financial commitments to hydrogen , as well as other alternative fuels that can help Canada meet its goal of net-zero GHG emissions by 2050 , she added . " Businesses will do what 's right for them from an economic perspective but I think everyone 's looking to government for signals that it 's good to invest in these things -- hydrogen being one of many fuels that we 'll need to reach our 2050 goals . " This report by The Canadian Press was first published Dec. 4 , 2020 . Companies in this story : ( TSX:ENB , TSX:ACO ) Dan Healing , The Canadian Press <p> South Korean President Moon Jae-in reshuffled his cabinet on Friday as his approval rating sank to a record low amid a backlash over housing policies , rising coronavirus cases , and a scandal involving the justice ministry and top prosecutors . Moon nominated new ministers of interior , health , land and housing , and gender as he sought to refresh his administration , with roughly two years of his presidency to run . Limited to a single term , and holding a small parliamentary majority , there is no obvious risk to Moon 's presidency , but the drop in ratings , a resurgence of coronavirus cases and nagging domestic controversies could make it harder for him to fulfil his agenda . <p> Organigram now says cooling towers atop its cannabis production plant in Moncton caused a legionnaires ' disease outbreak in the city last year that sent 15 people to hospital . " Organigram deeply regrets the impact of this incident on members of our community and their families last year , " the company said in a statement Thursday . The company did not provide an interview.Richard Melanson also wants an apology . Melanson is among 16 people who became ill and spent a week in hospital because of the severe form of pneumonia . Last fall , he voiced frustration the province had kept the source of the outbreak secret . " I do n't know if I 'll ever get an apology , " Melanson said this week . " I really , really hope I do . It would mean a lot to me . " Public Health revealed the outbreak on Aug. 1 and announced it was over on Sept. 12 . At the time , the province refused to release where the outbreak originated . CBC News filed several right to information requests to learn more about the outbreak 's source . The last batch was released last week , and for the first time the company 's name was not blacked out . " I suspected that it was them , but I just did n't want to point a finger or say ' you 're guilty , ' " Melanson said . " I 'm just glad I 'm alive , I 'm glad it did n't kill anybody in our group . " Legionnaires ' disease is caused by inhaling water droplets containing legionella bacteria . Outbreaks are often traced to cooling towers . The mechanical system can be part of a large building 's cooling system . Heat is dissipated by spraying water in the towers . But the combination of the heat and water can be a breeding ground for legionella bacteria if the system is n't properly maintained . Mist from the towers can carry the bacteria for kilometres into the surrounding environment . There 's no indication Organigram 's products were affected.In October last year , CBC reported Organigram had told its staff about " elevated bacteria counts " in a new cooling tower system . However , the company had refused to publicly acknowledge its role . " Organigram is commenting on this incident in co-ordination with information recently released by Public Health , " the company said Thursday . " Previously , consistent with directives in the public interest issued by Public Health , Organigram has not provided any comment . " The company says testing since the outbreak has found bacteria levels in the system that are " within acceptable limits . " Chris Boyd said outbreaks caused by cooling towers are largely preventable . Boyd worked for New York City 's health department and was part of its response to the largest legionella outbreak in the city 's history.He 's now general manager of building water health for NSF International , a product testing , inspection and certification organization based in Ann Arbour , Michigan.Boyd was involved in a report urging creation of cooling tower registries and posting of test results as a way to track and prevent outbreaks.The province of Quebec implemented a registry after repeated outbreaks in Quebec City . Vancouver passed a bylaw last year to create a registry . Hamilton , Ont. has a registry . The City of Moncton last year called for the New Brunswick government to implement a registry . Isabelle LeBlanc , a spokesperson for Moncton , said the city is n't considering its own bylaw because it believes the issue is a provincial responsibility . A spokesperson for the province has said a report by Public Health about how the outbreak was handled will include a recommendation for such a registry . It 's not clear when that report will be complete or whether the province will act on the recommendation . Emails released by the New Brunswick government to CBC show health officials exchanged information with Boyd , who offered to help the province as it considered a cooling tower registry . Boyd says he last heard from the province this fall.He said there has largely been an inconsistent approach to tackling the issue . " What is holding Public Health back from being more proactive and focusing on the preventive ability rather than the emergency response approach , which is the most common approach in North America ? " New Brunswick 's Health Department did not provide an interview.WATCH Richard Melanson speaks in 2019 about the outbreakMelanson said he believes the province should quickly implement a cooling tower registry . " That would prevent this maybe from taking place again here , " Melanson said . " You know , instead of you interviewing somebody in another couple of years and somebody else in another couple of years , this might put an end to it . " Melanson and others who became ill retained Halifax law firm Wagners , which specializes in class-action lawsuits . So far , nothing has been filed in court . Melanson said he had lingering health effects and spent time off work because of the illness . He said he 's doing better today , but still gets tired faster than he did before he had legionnaires ' disease . He said he spent this summer trying to enjoy life as much as possible . He occasionally talks with others who had legionnaires ' disease " I think we 're all thankful that we 're all here still and we might not all be doing as good as we did before , but we 're still alive , " Melanson said . 
@@52258379 <p> Rogers Media uses cookies for personalization , to customize its online advertisements , and for other purposes . Learn more or change your cookie preferences . Rogers Media supports the Digital Advertising Alliance principles . By continuing to use our service , you agree to our use of cookies . <p> We use cookies ( why ? ) You can change cookie preferences . Continued site use signifies consent . <h> Qatar rules out normalization of Israel ties for now <p> by The Associated Press <p> Posted Dec 4 , 2020 5:16 am PST <p> Last Updated Dec 4 , 2020 at 5:18 am PST <p> ROME -- Qatar 's foreign minister said Friday that his country remains committed to the creation of a Palestinian state with its capital in east Jerusalem , and that progress on that front would need to be " at the core " of any agreement to normalize relations with Israel . <p> " Right now , I do n't see that the normalization of Qatar and Israel is going to to add value to the Palestinian people , " Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ <p> There was speculation that Qatar -- which already co-operates with Israel in providing aid to the Gaza Strip -- might be the next Arab country to normalize relations after the United Arab Emirates , Bahrain and Sudan established diplomatic ties with Israel earlier this year . <p> But the foreign minister said Qatar remains committed to the 2002 Arab Peace Initiative , in which Arab countries would recognize Israel in exchange for its withdrawal from territories occupied in the 1967 war and the creation of a Palestinian state in the West Bank , Gaza and east Jerusalem . <p> The foreign minister noted that his country has a " working relationship " with Israel to provide aid to Gaza , where the Islamic militant group Hamas seized power from rival Palestinian forces in 2007 . <p> " But for the full normalization , I believe that the ( Palestinian issue ) needs to be at the core of any agreement of normalization between Qatar and Israel , " he said . <p> The wealthy Gulf country 's aid to Gaza has provided a lifeline to the territory , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hamas seized power . It has also been a key element in a shaky , informal truce that has prevented any major outbreaks of fighting in recent years . Israel and Hamas have fought three wars -- the most recent in 2014 -- as well as countless smaller skirmishes . <p> The normalization agreements with Israel , brokered by the United States , were widely seen as a breakthrough in Mideast diplomacy . But the Palestinians condemned the agreements as a betrayal because they marked a major erosion in Arab support for their cause , a key source of leverage in any future peace talks . 
@@52267465 <p> Independent and neutral with regard to all political and religious orientations , Tolerance.ca ? aims to promote awareness of the major democratic principles on which tolerance is based . <p> Director / Editor : Victor Teboul , Ph.D . <p> Looking inside ourselves and out at the world Independent and neutral with regard to all political and religious orientations , Tolerance.ca ? aims to promote awareness of the major democratic principles on which tolerance is based . <h> Gaza : Israeli Restrictions Harm People with Disabilities <p> Share this article <p> ( Gaza ) -- Israel 's 13-year closure of the Gaza Strip along with neglect by Hamas authorities , significantly encumber the day-to-day life of tens of thousands of Palestinians with disabilities , Human Rights Watch said today on the International Day of Persons with Disabilities . Episodes of armed conflict have compounded the barriers that people with disabilities face , which include lack of accessibility of public spaces and widespread stigma . Sweeping Israeli restrictions on the movement of people and goods , at times exacerbated by restrictive policies by Palestinian authorities , curb access to assistive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ www.tolerance.ca ( including articles , images , photographs , and logos ) is protected by intellectual property rights owned by Tolerance.ca ? Inc. or , in certain cases , by its author . Any reproduction of the information for use other than personal use is prohibited . In particular , any alteration , widespread distribution , translation , sale , commercial exploitation or reutilization of the contents of the Web site , without the prior written permission of Tolerance.ca ? Inc. , is strictly forbidden . For information , please contact info@tolerance.ca <p> Tolerance.ca ? Inc. is not responsible for external links nor for the contents of the advertisements appearing on Tolerance.ca ? . Ads companies may use information about your visits to this web site in order to provide advertisements about goods and services of interest to you . 
@@52274763 <h> Gaza-born doctor and public health expert is a strong advocate for peace <p> Palestinian-Canadian Izzeldin Abuelaish is an advocate for peace , despite the various tragedies he has encountered in his life , and strongly believes that education is the key to long-lasting peace in the Middle East and around the world . <p> Dr. Izzeldin Abuelaish was the first Palestinian doctor to work in an Israeli hospital . Tragedy struck on January 16 , 2009 , when Abuelaish 's three daughters and niece were killed in his own home by an Israeli tank fire attack . <p> While one would assume that such a devastating tragedy would cause a father to want to seek revenge on those who took the lives of his beloved daughters , Abuelaish turned his grief into hope and has become an advocate for peace and for the education of girls in the Middle East . Over the years , his message of peace and hope in response to the devastating loss of his children has earned him several humanitarian awards worldwide . <p> He now resides in Toronto with his remaining five children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and is the founder of the Daughters for Life Foundation , a registered charity that creates accessible education opportunities for young women from the Middle East through strategic partnerships with academic institutions and empowers them to bring lasting change to their communities . <p> Life as a refugee <p> Abuelaish was born and raised in Jabalia Refugee Camp in the Gaza Strip . Life as a refugee was a constant struggle , but Abuelaish found hope in the camp . " In life , there are two types of disasters : natural disasters and man-made disasters , " he says . Abuelaish realized that the challenges he was facing were the latter , and he had the power to challenge them . He discovered that education was the only way to escape his circumstances . <p> Abuelaish was educated in refugee camp schools and earned a scholarship to study medicine in Cairo , Egypt . He later received a diploma in obstetrics and gynecology from the University of London , UK . From 1997 -- 2002 , he completed his residency at the Soroka University hospital in Beer Sheva @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Italy and Belgium , and a Master 's degree in Public Health from Harvard University . He was the first Palestinian doctor to work at an Israeli hospital and up to the devastating loss of his daughters , he worked as a senior researcher at the Gertner Institute in Sheba Hospital in Israel . <p> January 16 , 2009 : The date that changed everything <p> On January 16 , 2009 , an Israeli tank fired through the wall of Abuelaish 's home , killing three of his daughters ( Bassan , 20 , Mayar , 15 and Aya , 13 ) as well as his 14-year old niece , Nour . <p> For the gynecologist and father of eight children who had lost his wife to cancer only four months prior , the deaths of his daughters caused him to temporarily lose faith in humanity . " The world was watching what was going on and just considering the Palestinians as numbers , " he says . " I will never accept my children to be numbers . Each of my daughters was one world . Each of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the tragedies that have befallen him , Abuelaish says he has never felt anger in the negative way of hatred . " Hatred is a disease . It 's a contagious destructive disease that impacts the one who is carrying Hatred makes me incapable , stagnant , paralyzed , blind . It 's a toxin ; a fire that burns the one who is impacted by it , " he says . " I needed to be strong physically and mentally to overcome this challenge and to keep my daughters alive , not with hatred , but with good deeds , " he says . <p> Creating the Daughters For Life Foundation <p> Abuelaish turned his grief for his daughters into a beacon of hope for many young women in the Middle East . He created the Daughters for Life Foundation , a registered Canadian charity that provides scholarships for aspiring young women living in the Middle East , enabling them to pursue undergraduate and graduate education opportunities in Canada , the US and UK ; education that would otherwise be unattainable . Abuelaish strongly believes that education is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world . To date , the Foundation has supported more than 500 young women in their education . <p> " I created this charity to keep my daughters alive , " says Abuelaish , who hopes that the young women who receive the scholarships will be able to go back home and serve their home countries . <p> Education , says Abuelaish , is key to fixing the problems in the world . " In life someone can take anything from you , but no one can take your education or prevent you from dreaming or achieving your dreams by working hard , " he says . This is the message Abuelaish has spread to his children . It 's the message he hopes to spread to all Canadian newcomers , and to the young women who have received education through his Daughters For Life Foundation . <p> Choosing to make Canada home <p> Abuelaish 's path to hope included a decision to relocate himself and his remaining children to Canada , in July 2009 , after receiving a job offer as an Associate Professor at the Dalla Lana School @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of him wanted to stay close to the graves of his daughters , as a newly single father of five , Abuelaish could n't deny his children the opportunities that Canada could provide . " One of the wisest decisions that I am proud of is that I decided to come to Canada , " he says . <p> Abuelaish describes Canada as a very social and friendly place ; something he felt from the first day of the family 's arrival . Upon meeting their new neighbours on their first day in Canada , Abuelaish says the two families , who had children around the same ages , decided to take down part of the wooden fence between the two houses , allowing the children to play together whenever they wished . This gesture reinforced to Abueleish the social and community values that he had hoped for his family and for the world . <p> Providing his children with the education opportunities that he knew were rare for many children around the world was also top of mind . Abuelaish is proud to say that two of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engineering program . His son graduated from Rotman School of Business and his youngest son has recently been accepted to Schulich School of Business at York University . <p> Looking at hatred as a communicable disease <p> A public health expert , Abuelaish compares hatred to the COVID-19 pandemic . " How do people get COVID ? " he asks . " It is a contagious disease and a result of exposure . And , we have to deal with its long-term consequences . Similar to COVID , we should treat hatred as a communicable disease and a threat to public health . " <p> Whether it is hatred or COVID , he points out that the most vulnerable are the most affected . " Who pays the price ? Women , children and marginalized people , " he says . " It is even more important to overcome this in the current times . This is universal global message for our world : How to deal with the long-term consequences ( of war or hatred ) , " he cautions . <h> Authors <h> About us ... <p> Founded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " inform , educate and motivate " immigrants to Canada and assist them in their new found journey . Since then , the magazine has grown to be the only national multi-platform brand for all immigrants to Canada , on topics from careers to education to settlement . Canadian Immigrant not only connects newcomers in Canada , but also aspiring immigrants from more than 150 countries . <h> Newsletter <p> Email address : <p> Yes ! Send me email announcements , notices , special offers and other information that may be of interest to me from Canadian Immigrant . <p> I can unsubscribe at any time . See our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use . Canadian Immigrant , a publication of Metroland Media Group Ltd. , 3145 Wolfedale Road , Mississauga , ON L5C 3A9. 905-273-8111 . <p> Loizza Aquino is an 18-year-old social justice activist . She has been involved with social activism since the age of nine , but , in 2015 , she started to focus on mental health advocacy in 10th grade after she lost one of her best friends to suicide . He was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by suicide within the timespan of one month . <p> After a countless number of hours spent on trying to find answers as to why this was happening , Aquino realized that she needed to stop searching for answers , but instead , create solutions to ensure this would never happen again . This inspired Aquino to create her own youth-led non-profit organization at the age of 15 called Peace of Mind . Her organization holds events called Youth Against Metal Health and Illness Stigma ( YAMHIS ) , which provides a safe space and platform for students across the province to share their stories and experiences in regards to mental health . <p> A handful of high schools across Manitoba have created Peace of Mind groups within their school to sustain mental health conversations throughout the school year . Since 2015 , they have reached more than 2,000 students , and have expanded from Manitoba to Ontario . These events have inspired students to get help and have even saved students ' lives . <p> Aquino has worked alongside a branch of the Government of Manitoba on several projects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different accolades for her work in the topic of mental health , online safety and media literacy , youth empowerment and human rights . Her past awards include the Young Humanitarian Award of Manitoba , Global Bayaning Filipino Award , TD Scholarships for Community Leadership and the Youth Premier Healthy Living Award . <p> Aquino also recently created her own scholarship fund to empower other youth mental health activists and support across Canada and the Philippines . Aquino is a student at the University of Toronto , pursuing a double major in mental health studies and international development studies , with a minor in public policy and governance . She hopes to work for the United Nations one day to create policies for mental health across the world . 
@@52289556 <h> Ben Roethlisberger <h> Latest Stories <p> WASHINGTON -- The Electoral College decisively confirmed Joe Biden on Monday as the nation 's next president , ratifying his November victory in an authoritative state-by-state repudiation of President Donald Trump 's refusal to concede he had lost . The presidential electors gave Biden a solid majority of 306 electoral votes to Trump 's 232 , the same margin that Trump bragged was a landslide when he won the White House four years ago . Heightened security was in place in some states as electors met to cast paper ballots , with masks , social distancing and other pandemic precautions the order of the day . The results will be sent to Washington and tallied in a Jan. 6 joint session of Congress over which Vice-President Mike Pence will preside . For all Trump 's unsupported claims of fraud , there was little suspense and no change as every one of the electoral votes allocated to Biden and the president in last month 's popular vote went officially to each man . On Election Day , the Democrat topped the incumbent Republican by more than 7 million in the popular vote nationwide . California 's 55 electoral votes put Biden over the top . Vermont , with 3 votes , was the first state to report . Hawaii , with 4 votes , was the last . " Once again in America , the rule of law , our Constitution , and the will of the people have prevailed . Our democracy -- pushed , tested , threatened -- proved to be resilient , true , and strong , " Biden said in an evening speech in which he stressed the size of his win and the record 81 million people who voted for him . He renewed his campaign promise to be a president for all Americans , whether they voted for him or not , and said the country has hard work ahead on the virus and economy . But there was no concession from the White House , where Trump has continued to make unsupported allegations of fraud . Trump remained in the Oval Office long after the sun set in Washington , calling allies and fellow Republicans while keeping track of the running Electoral College tally , according to White House and campaign aides . The president frequently ducked into the private dining room off the Oval Office to watch on TV , complaining that the cable networks were treating it like a mini-Election Night while not giving his challenges any airtime . The president had grown increasingly disappointed with the size of " Stop the Steal " rallies across the nation as well as efforts for the GOP to field its own slates of electors in states . A presidential wish for a fierce administration defence led to TV appearances early Monday by Stephen Miller , one of his most ferocious advocates , to try to downplay the importance of the Electoral College vote and suggest that Trump 's legal challenges would continue all the way to Inauguration Day on Jan. 20 . Late in the day , he took to Twitter to announce that Attorney General William Barr was leaving the administration before Christmas . Barr 's departure comes amid lingering tension over Trump 's unsupported fraud claims , especially after Barr 's statement this month to The Associated Press that the election results were unaffected by any fraud . In a Fox News interview taped over the weekend , Trump said that " I worry about the country having an illegitimate president , that 's what I worry about . A president that lost and lost badly . " On Monday in Arizona , Georgia , Michigan , Nevada , Pennsylvania and Wisconsin -- the six battleground states that Biden won and Trump contested -- electors gave Biden and Vice-President-elect Kamala Harris their votes in low-key proceedings . Nevada 's electors met via Zoom because of the coronavirus pandemic . Trump 's efforts to undermine the election results also led to concerns about safety for the electors , virtually unheard of in previous years . In Michigan , lawmakers from both parties reported receiving threats , and legislative offices were closed over threats of violence . Biden won the state by 154,000 votes , or 2.8 percentage points , over Trump . Georgia state police were out in force at the state capitol in Atlanta before Democratic electors pledged to Biden met . There were no protesters seen . Even with the Electoral College 's confirmation of Biden 's victory , some Republicans continued to refuse to acknowledge that reality . Yet their opposition to Biden had no practical effect on the electoral process , with the Democrat to be sworn in next month . Republicans who would have been Trump electors met anyway in a handful of states Biden won . Pennsylvania Republicans said they cast a " procedural vote " for Trump and Pence in case courts that have repeatedly rejected challenges to Biden 's victory were to somehow still determine that Trump had won . In North Carolina , Utah and other states across the country where Trump won , his electors turned out to duly cast their ballots for him . Electors in North Carolina had their temperatures checked before being allowed to enter the Capitol to vote . Utah Attorney General Sean Reyes withdrew as a Trump elector and was in quarantine because he was exposed to someone with COVID-19 . Former President Bill Clinton and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton , whom Trump defeated four years ago , were among New York 's 29 electors for Biden and Harris . In New Hampshire , before the state 's four electors voted for Biden at the State House in Concord , 13-year-old Brayden Harrington led the group in the Pledge of Allegiance . He had delivered a moving speech at the Democratic National Convention in August about the struggle with stuttering he shares with Biden . Following weeks of Republican legal challenges that were easily dismissed by judges , Trump and Republican allies tried to persuade the Supreme Court last week to set aside 62 electoral votes for Biden in four states , which might have thrown the outcome into doubt . The justices rejected the effort on Friday . The Electoral College was the product of compromise during the drafting of the Constitution between those who favoured electing the president by popular vote and those who opposed giving the people the power to directly choose their leader . Each state gets a number of electors equal to its total number of seats in Congress : two senators plus however many members the state has in the House of Representatives . Washington , D.C. , has three votes , under a constitutional amendment that was ratified in 1961 . With the exception of Maine and Nebraska , states award all their Electoral College votes to the winner of the popular vote in their state . The bargain struck by the nation 's founders has produced five elections in which the president did not win the popular vote . Trump was the most recent example in 2016 . Associated Press writer Jonathan Lemire and AP writers across the United States contributed to this report . Mark Sherman , The Associated Press <p> The largest mass immunization effort in Canadian history began Monday in Ontario and Quebec after the country received its first COVID-19 vaccine shipment over the weekend.The Canadian military is assisting a massive effort to distribute 249,000 doses developed by pharmaceutical giant Pfizer and German partner BioNTech . Here 's a look at what the various provinces have said about their rollout plans : -- Newfoundland and LabradorPremier Andrew Furey says he anticipates receiving 1,950 doses of the COVID-19 vaccine at the St. John 's receiving site this week.Furey says the province expects another shipment of the vaccine later in the month . -- Prince Edward IslandHealth officials on Prince Edward Island say they are ready to administer the COVID-19 vaccine when the first shipment arrives this week.Chief medical officer of health Dr. Heather Morrison says the province plans to begin by administering the Pfizer vaccine to priority groups , including residents and staff of long-term care homes , health-care workers and adults in Indigenous communities.Morrison says she expects to receive 1,950 doses in the first shipment , and the clinic will have to be held at the storage location because the Pfizer vaccine must be kept frozen.The owner of a bluefin tuna exporting company in the eastern part of P.E.I. has offered up two freezers to the provincial government to aid in the effort to store the vaccine . -- New BrunswickNew Brunswick 's health minister says its shipment of 1,950 doses of the Pfizer vaccine would be used to inoculate long-term care residents and staff , staff from rapid COVID-19 response teams , ambulance workers , health-care workers involved in COVID units , seniors 85 and older and First Nations nurses.Dorothy Shephard says the vaccine plan would be carried out by the provincial Emergency Measures Organization.The first round of vaccinations will be carried out Dec. 19 and 20 at the Miramichi Regional Hospital , which has an ultralow-temperature freezer to store the vaccine . -- Nova ScotiaNova Scotia 's chief medical officer of health says the province will receive 1,950 doses of Pfizer 's vaccine for an initial test run beginning Tuesday.Dr . Robert Strang says the first doses will be used to immunize front-line health workers in the Halifax area who are most directly involved in the pandemic response.Strang says because the vaccine has specific handling requirements , Pfizer has stipulated that the initial round of immunizations take place near where the doses are stored.Nova Scotia has one ultralow-temperature freezer to store the vaccine at the tertiary care teaching complex at the Queen Elizabeth II Health Sciences Centre.Strang says the province is getting another freezer through Ottawa that will operate out of a central depot for vaccines at the public health office in Halifax . The province is also looking at securing freezers from the private sector . -- QuebecThe first doses of Pfizer 's COVID-19 vaccine were administered in the province Monday.Residents of long-term care homes and health-care workers are to have first priority.The groups next in line are people living in private seniors residences , followed by residents of isolated communities and then anyone aged 80 and over . -- OntarioOntario received 6,000 doses of Pfizer 's COVID-19 vaccine over the weekend and began giving them out on Monday.Retired gen . Rick Hiller , who is leading Ontario 's vaccine task force , says half the shots will be administered this week , and the other half will be intentionally held back to give the same workers a required second dose 21 days later . " Given the sort of information flow of what we know about the supply , which is very little at this time ... we decided it was better to err on the side of caution , " he says.An additional 90,000 doses of the Pfizer vaccine are expected to arrive later this month and are to be provided to 14 hospitals in COVID-19 hot spots.Hillier has said the province also expects to receive between 30,000 and 85,000 doses of the Moderna vaccine by the new year , pending its approval by Health Canada.Ontario 's Solicitor General Sylvia Jones said that the hospitals receiving the first shots have made security arrangements to ensure the vaccine is safe from theft . -- ManitobaPremier Brian Pallister says some 900 health-care workers in critical care units will be the first to receive the vaccine after doses start to arrive this week.As more shipments come in , priority will be given to other health-care workers , seniors and Indigenous people.Manitoba hopes to start vaccinating on Wednesday.The province plans to vaccinate more than 100,000 people by March -- that 's roughly seven per cent of Manitoba 's population.Officials say they 've been setting up a large-scale " supersite " to deliver the vaccine . The first freezer able to store the Pfizer vaccine at low temperatures has been delivered and installed , with another four on the way.The province says the vaccine will become more widely available at a larger number of sites , similar to a conventional vaccination campaign , such as the annual flu shot. **26;85;TOOLONG plans to start immunizing critical health-care workers against COVID-19 in a pilot project this week.Premier Scott Moe says the province expects to receive 1,950 doses of Pfizer 's vaccine by Tuesday . A pilot vaccination program at the Regina General Hospital will give the vaccine to health-care workers in intensive and emergency care , COVID-19 units and those working in testing and assessment centres.The first official stage of Saskatchewan 's vaccination program will be in late December when the province receives more doses.It will target more health-care workers , staff and residents in long-term care , seniors over 80 and people in remote areas who are at least 50 . Some 202,052 doses of the Pfizer vaccine are expected to arrive within the first quarter of next year , and there are to be 10,725 weekly allocations.Moe says vaccinations for the general population is expected to begin in April. --AlbertaAlberta Premier Jason Kenney announced in a video released late Monday and recorded next to a cargo plane at Calgary International Airport that the province 's first 3,900 vaccine doses had arrived.Kenney said in the video that ICU nurses are queued up to be the first to receive the vaccine , and that he expected the first dose to be administered in the next 24 hours . Alberta Health Minister Tyler Shandro said earlier in the day that the doses would go to health-care workers and would begin in Edmonton and Calgary.Shandro said another 25,000 Pfizer doses are coming next week and will also be administered to health workers.Doses of the Moderna vaccine are expected by the end of the month.The province says it eventually plans to roll out the vaccine from 30 different locations . -- British ColumbiaBritish Columbia 's provincial health officer , Dr. Bonnie Henry , says the province will start its immunization program on Tuesday with some health workers in long-term care homes getting the vaccine first.Regions of the province covered by the Vancouver Coastal and Fraser health authorities are first in line to get the Pfizer vaccine , which arrived on Monday.The vaccine is expected to be available in the rest of the province by next week.Workers in long-term care facilities are at the top of the list to get the vaccine.Henry expects about 400,000 people to be vaccinated by March.The province said it is developing a system so people can register to get the vaccine and receive a formal record of immunization. -- NunavutNunavut 's premier says the territory will get the vaccine made by Moderna in the first quarter of 2021 . Joe Savikataaq says Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has told him Nunavut will get enough doses to vaccinate 75 per cent of the population . Chief public health officer Dr. Michael Patterson says Nunavut will prioritize elders and health-care workers first for the vaccine . Savikataaq says his government is still working on its plan to roll out the vaccine once it arrives in the territory . Northwest Territories The premier of the Northwest Territories says N.W.T. will receive 51,000 doses of the Moderna vaccine in the new year . Caroline Cochrane says that 's enough to vaccinate 75 per cent of the population ages 18 and up . The territory is creating a vaccine team made up of nurses and support staff to travel to smaller communities . Health Minister Julie Green says two specialized freezers for storing the vaccines are on their way from the federal government and will be placed in Yellowknife and Inuvik . Smaller , portable freezers are also on the way and will be placed in smaller communities . -- YukonYukon says it will get enough of the Moderna vaccine by spring to vaccinate 75 per cent of its residents.A statement from the Yukon government says the territory 's allocation is in recognition of it 's large Indigenous populations and remote communities.Premier Sandy Silver says getting vaccinated is the best thing residents can do to protect themselves and their loved ones . " Over time , widespread immunization will allow us to return to a life without COVID-19 restrictions . " This report by The Canadian Press was first published Dec. 14 , 2020 . The Canadian Press <p> TORONTO -- Ontario will administer the province 's first COVID-19 vaccination today , with a health-care worker set to receive the dose in Toronto.Premier Doug Ford 's office has said the first shots will be administered at the University Health Network . The province received 6,000 doses of Pfizer 's COVID-19 vaccine on Sunday , and plans to give them to approximately 2,500 health-care workers in the first phase of its immunization plan.Ford 's office said the premier was on site in Hamilton as a plane carrying the first batches of the vaccine landed Sunday night . " The province has been preparing for this day for months and we are ready for the road ahead , " Ford 's office said in a statement Monday morning . " It 's time to start vaccinating Ontarians . It 's time to put an end to the COVID-19 pandemic . " Ontario will administer the shots a day earlier than expected , with the government saying last week it intended to begin vaccinating health care workers on Tuesday.Half the shots the province received will be administered this week and the other half will be intentionally held back to give the same individuals a required second dose 21 days later.Ford has said health-care workers , long-term care residents , and their caregivers will be among the first to receive the vaccine.Adults in Indigenous communities , residents of retirement homes , and recipients of chronic home health-care will also be priority groups.The province said it will be prioritizing the distribution of the vaccine in regions with the highest rates of COVID-19.The government has said , however , that the vaccine is n't expected to be more broadly available to the general public until April . Retired Gen. Rick Hillier , who is leading the province 's vaccine task force , says an additional 90,000 doses of the Pfizer vaccine are expected to arrive later this month.Those doses will be provided to 14 hospitals in COVID-19 hot spots.Hillier has said Ontario also expects to receive between 30,000 and 85,000 doses of the Moderna vaccine by the new year , pending its approval by Health Canada.The province expects to receive 2.4 million doses -- allowing it to vaccinate 1.2 million people -- during the first three months of 2021 . Hillier said the vaccine will be more broadly available to the public starting in April , during the second phase of the rollout , and it will take between six to nine months to distribute shots across the province . " People are going to have to be patient that their turn will come , " he said last week.The third and final phase of the plan would then see the vaccine available through places like pharmacies on a regular basis , he said . Hiller said the start of the vaccination program at Toronto 's University Health Network and the Ottawa Hospital will serve as a pilot that will help fine-tune the next step of the rollout.Ontario 's Solicitor General Sylvia Jones said on Friday that the hospitals receiving the first shots have made security arrangements to ensure the vaccine is safe from theft . " This vaccine is liquid gold , " she said . " We are getting a very limited supply , and we wanted to make sure that we had done our due diligence to ensure that the sites were ready ( and ) protected . " Ontario reported 1,940 new cases of COVID-19 on Monday , and 23 new deaths due to the virus.Health Minister Christine Elliott said 544 new cases were in Toronto , 390 in Peel Region , 191 cases in York Region , and 114 in Windsor-Essex.In total , 857 people are hospitalized in Ontario due to COVID-19 , including 244 in intensive care.The latest figures bring the total of COVID-19 cases in Ontario to 142,121 , with 3,972 deaths , and 121,563 cases resolved.This report by The Canadian Press was first published Dec. 14 , 2020 . Shawn Jeffords , The Canadian Press <p> The music scene in Twillingate is starting to receive some recognition . The latest nod to the town came as Music NL announced the nominees for its various annual awards late week . More specifically , it was a nod to Twillingate 's 618 Entertainment , to its current venue and to one of the men behind the company . All were recognized with nominations . * 618 Entertainment was nominated for the Noseworthy Chapman Outstanding Company of the Year award . * The Twillingate Performing Arts Centre , a converted United Church that is also known as The Gate and is home to 618 Entertainment , was nominated for the organization 's George Street Association 's Venue of the Year . * Mike McDonald , 618 Entertainment 's Director of Creative Experience , was nominated for the Stewert McKelvey Industry Professional of the Year award . " It was a bit of a shock , " said McDonald , who also performs under the name Mike Sixonate . " ( But ) it 's nice to get some recognition . " McDonald was in the middle of his regular morning routine when he got the news about the string of nominations . After his email dinged with the Music NL message , McDonald quickly started informing members of his team . That included Denver Gidge . Like McDonald , Gidge saw it all as a welcome surprise . " Everybody likes a pat on the back , " said Gidge . " It is a nice little nod . " Gidge is one of the main people behind The Gate and with the work 618 Entertainment has done in the venue since operations began there in June . Besides Gidge and McDonald , others involved with the transformation of The Gate include Clint Lackey and Mike Jenkins . It 's remarkable what has been accomplished in a matter of months , turning the over 100-year-old Gate into a reliable entertainment venue . Since early July , 618 Entertainment has streamed 30 shows by various artists from the old church , with about 150,000 people tuning in " We put our head down and try to plow through , " said Gidge , noted the work was a collective effort . " I 'm glad to be a part of it . " McDonald sees each of the nominations as an affirmation of the work the group is doing in the region , work which has been acknowledged by other organizations . His group is also nominated for the Joe and Clarice Goodyear Business Achievement Award for the Gander and Area Chamber of Commerce business awards . " I love the fact Twillingate is getting all of the attention , " he said . The work does n't stop , however , as the 618 Entertainment group continues to try and bring regular shows to the region . " In this industry , we 're all in this together , " said McDonald . " I always remind myself of that . " Nicholas Mercer , Local Journalism Initiative Reporter , The Central Voice <p> BRUSSELS -- European Union chief negotiator Michel Barnier said Monday he still firmly believes that a post-Brexit trade agreement is possible , and whittled down the major outstanding disputes to be settled ahead of the New Year to just two.Britain , meanwhile , said the negotiations now taking place in Brussels could continue for some time yet and indicated it was not planning to pull the plug on the talks as long as progress was possible.Barnier said the nine-month negotiations had come down to finding some agreements on fair-competition rules and fishing rights , no longer mentioning the issue of legal mechanisms for resolving future disputes . " Two conditions are not met yet , " he said as he entered a meeting to brief the EU 's 27 nations on progress in the talks . He is expected to continue negotiations with his U.K. counterpart , David Frost , later on Monday . " This deal , it is still possible , " he added.In Britain , Business Secretary Alok Sharma said " the fact that we 're continuing to have these discussion shows that there is an opportunity to try and make some progress . " " Our intention is not to walk away . We will continue to talk as long as there is the possibility of reaching a deal , " he said.Both sides are teetering on the brink of a no-deal Brexit departure , but have committed to a final push ahead of Jan. 1 , when a transitional period following Britain 's Jan. 31 departure from the bloc is to end.On Sunday , British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and EU Commission President Ursula von der Leyen ditched a self-imposed deadline and promised to " go the extra mile " to clinch a post-Brexit trade agreement that would avert New Year 's chaos and costs for cross-border commerce.With traffic jams already hampering access to cross-Channel ports like Dover in England and Calais in northern France , the time pressure should start to have an impact , specifically on London , said Fabian Zuleeg , head of the EPC think-tank . " We are seeing the lorries queuing . We are seeing that there are difficulties with some of supply chains . We 're seeing also that business is extremely unhappy about still being in a high degree of uncertainty with only a few days to go . " Zuleeg said.Barnier is willing to accept British trade with no tariffs or quotas , but only if the U.K respects the rules and regulations that have made the EU 's single market of 450 million consumers so successful . " Free and fair competition , fair and free , equitable and open , the two go together , " Barnier said.Johnson , however , says he does not want British business to be hemmed in by EU restrictions , especially if those restrictions would have to be progressively adapted to higher mainland standards in the future.On fisheries , Barnier demanded " an agreement that guarantees a reciprocal , I insist , reciprocal access to markets and waters . " EU fishermen are keen to keep working in British waters and the U.K. seafood industry is extremely dependent on exports into the 27-nation bloc.Johnson has made fisheries and U.K. control over its waters a key demand in the long saga of Britain 's departure from the EU . It has been four-and-a-half years since Britons voted narrowly to leave the EU and -- in the words of the Brexiteers ' slogan -- " take back control " of the U.K. 's borders and laws.Johnson said over the weekend the " most likely " outcome was that the two sides would n't reach a deal and would trade on World Trade Organization terms , with the tariffs and barriers that would bring.But after Barnier briefed the ambassadors of the EU nations , one EU diplomat said there might be a narrow path to an agreement visible " if negotiators can clear the remaining hurdles in the next few days . " The official spoke on condition of anonymity because the talks were still ongoing . Kelvin Chan contributed from London , Mark Carlson from BrusselsFollow all AP stories on the Brexit trade talks at https : //apnews.com/BrexitJRaf Casert , The Associated Press <p> LANSING , Mich. -- A Republican lawmaker was disciplined Monday for not denouncing potential violence at the Michigan Capitol before Democratic presidential electors met to vote for Joe Biden , who defeated President Donald Trump in the swing state.State Rep. Gary Eisen , of St. Clair Township , told WPHM-AM that he planned to help with an unspecified " Hail Mary " GOP plan to challenge the election , conceding that the " uncharted " action likely would not change the result . Asked if he could guarantee people 's safety , he said " no . " House Speaker Lee Chatfield and Speaker-elect Jason Wentworth , both Republicans , removed Eisen from committees in the closing days of the two-year session . In a statement , they said threats or suggestions of violence in politics are never acceptable , including " when the public officials open the door to violent behaviour and refuse to condemn it . We must do better . " The 16 electors later cast their votes for Biden during a meeting also attended by top state Democrats such as Gov . Gretchen Whitmer , Secretary of State Jocelyn Benson and Attorney General Dana Nessel.The Capitol was closed to the public due to coronavirus restrictions because neither the House nor Senate were in session , though some Republicans , including Eisen , were critical of the closure on the day of the Electoral College meeting . Legislative offices in the Statehouse and nearby buildings also were closed due to " credible threats of violence , " a Senate spokeswoman said.Eisen was among 15 Republican legislators and four GOP congressmen in Michigan who signed onto a Texas lawsuit asking the U.S. Supreme Court to set aside votes in four states due to baseless claims of widespread fraud , including in Michigan . The court dismissed the case.Michigan 's Republican legislative leaders have said the Legislature followed state law in not overturning Biden 's 154,000-vote victory in the state -- a margin of 2.8 percentage points.Eisen , a first-term legislator , issued a statement saying he regretted " confusion " over his remarks and no longer planned to go to the Capitol with a group that supports an alternative slate of would-be GOP electors . They were turned away from entering the Statehouse later Monday . " I wanted to attend today 's event to help prevent violence , not promote it , " he said . " My comments were meant to reflect that while our group intends to be peaceful , I did not feel I could speak for other groups . Apparently some people are making credible threats of violence today , and I am glad local law enforcement is on the scene preventing any such action and keeping everyone safe . " House Speaker Lee Chatfield , a Republican , said the Legislature chose decades ago to award electors to the winner of the popular vote and the Supreme Court has ruled that the right can not be infringed on retroactively.It was the second time in less than a week that House leaders punished a member . Democratic Rep. Cynthia Johnson , of Detroit , lost her committee spots because she took to social media to warn " Trumpers , " after saying she received at least one racist threat that she should be lynched following a hearing in which Trump lawyer Rudy Giuliani falsely alleged that there had been mass fraud in Detroit . Follow David Eggert at https : **32;113;TOOLONG Eggert , The Associated Press <p> The Nunavut government announced some preliminary plans for how it will rollout the Moderna vaccine once doses are in hand next year . Syringes , needles and alcohol swabs needed for the vaccine are already in territory , and two medical grade freezers arrived over the weekend to increase storage capacity for vaccine doses in Iqaluit and Rankin Inlet , said Chief Public Health Officer Dr. Michael Patterson . He made the announcement in a Monday news conference at the Legislative Assembly . The territory knows it will receive enough doses of the Moderna vaccine in the first three months of 2021 to vaccinate 75 per cent of the adult population . However , it does not know how the deliveries will be scheduled , Patterson said . That 's why it is planning for multiple scenarios.If only a small amount of vaccines arrive in the early new year , " we will be taking a very focused approach by first vaccinating those at the very highest risk of complications from COVID-19 , " he said . If vaccines arrive in bulk early on , he said the territory will look at mass immunization . " Every year vaccination campaigns across the territory come with logistical challenges , " he said , adding that a H1N1 vaccination was successful . He said health staff are practiced at delivering vaccine programs and the COVID-19 vaccination is no exception.The Moderna vaccine is still awaiting approval from Health Canada . Missed the update ? Watch it here:Nine new cases in Arviat on MondayAs of Monday , there were nine new cases in Arviat , bring the total active COVID-19 cases there to 49 , the only active cases in Nunavut . There are 207 people recovered territory-wide in total.Public health is following 642 people for symptoms or potential contact . Nunavut has seen 256 cases since early November . The vaccine will be for priority groups like elders and essential healthcare workers first , then adults over 18 years old will be able to get it . " People have asked if the vaccine is safe . It is , " Patterson said . There were over 30,000 participants already for Moderna vaccine testing , he said , and called Canada 's vaccine approval " thorough . " Patterson said global cooperation and finances for human and technical resources allowed the process for the vaccine to be sped up . Residents who are vaccinated will still be required to follow isolation protocols , Patterson said , because health officials do n't know yet how quickly herd immunity will happen.That means , he explained , having " enough people in the population protected that if the virus does arrive it ca n't go very far nor very fast and the risk of an outbreak , like what has happened in Arviat , is very small . " While the threshold for that immunity is n't yet known , Patterson guessed more than 60 per cent of adults would have to get the vaccine to see that happen . ' Light at the end of the tunnel'He does n't know how long it will take for restrictions to be lifted after vaccinations begin , but said Health staff will have to monitor the results of a vaccination campaign , and measures are likely to ease gradually . For the isolation hubs , he said they will go away " as soon as it 's safe . " The vaccines are not going to be for children or pregnant women . It takes a lot longer to approve vaccines for children , and to get enough children recruited for testing , Patterson said.The vaccines will be free . Premier Joe Savikataaq asked Nunavummiut to educate themselves about the vaccine . " I know there is some misinformation and fear around the vaccine . This will be our best defence , " he said . " My family and I will all get vaccinated when it is our turn . The vaccine could be the light at the end of the tunnel . " Anyone who may have had contact with COVID-19 is asked to call a COVID-hotline at 1-888-975-8601 between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m . ET , or to notify their community health centre , and isolate at home for 14 days , the Health department said . The Health department is asking residents not to visit their community health centres in person . You can watch the live news conference here or on the CBC Nunavut Facebook page . It will air later in the day on CBC radio . <p> OTTAWA -- The year 2020 will go down as the worst for refugee resettlement in recent history , says the UN refugee agency 's Canadian representative . With nearly 168 countries implementing border and travel restrictions , millions of displaced people around the globe were stuck , unable to either return to their home countries or move to others.Canada , however , was one of only a few that did listen to urgent pleas from the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees , said Rema Jamous Imseis , the UNHCR 's Canadian representative.Even at the height of the pandemic , when most countries were looking entirely inward , Canada did accept emergency cases and as travel has resumed continues to take in more , she told The Canadian Press in an interview . " It has n't , unfortunately , been at the levels that we had planned for prior to the pandemic , but it still is offering that critical lifeline to people who desperately need it , " she said . " And we hope that next year actually is going to bring us a very different context and an ability not only to meet those targets , but to perhaps even exceed them . " Canada had planned to resettle around 30,000 refugees in 2020 . By the end of September , just under 6,000 had arrived , and a spokesman for Immigration Minister Marco Mendicino said the end-of-year figure will be closer to 7,000 . The target for resettlement next year is 35,000 , but how realistic that goal is considering the unknowns around the end of the pandemic is unclear.Mendicino 's spokesman said in an email that the entire resettlement " ecosystem " continues to operate at a reduced capacity , but is slowly spooling back up . " While our operations have been affected , we 've come a long way since the onset of the pandemic and are now processing nearly six times as many refugee cases as in a similar period last year , " Alexander Cohen said in an email.The border closures were n't the only challenge this year for refugees , said Jamous Imseis.Many of the world 's displaced people were just scraping by economically before the pandemic hit , but their sources of income completely dried up , she said . " The ability to sustain themselves and their families has been wiped out , " she said . " So you saw entire populations going from vulnerable , but with the ability to sustain themselves overnight to becoming really vulnerable . " There 's also been a massive blow to the ability of children to be in school . A pivot to online learning possible in some developed nations just is n't applicable elsewhere , she said.Some studies suggest more than half of refugee girls may never go back to post-secondary education after the pandemic , she said . " They have n't been at school this whole time , and they may never go back because life circumstances have changed so dramatically , " she said.Monday is the UNHCR 's 70th anniversary . It was created to help displaced Europeans after the Second World War and originally was only supposed to exist for a few years . " But sadly , we 're still here and it signals the failure of the international community to really address long-standing issues , and drivers of displacement globally , " said Jamous Imseis . " We look forward to the day when our services are no longer needed . " This report by The Canadian Press was first published Dec. 14 , 2020 . Stephanie Levitz , The Canadian Press <p> THUNDER BAY -- An Ontario Superior Court judge is expected to deliver her decision this afternoon for a Thunder Bay man accused in the 2017 death of Barbara Kentner . Brayden Bushby admits to throwing a metal trailer hitch at Kentner from a moving vehicle which struck her in the stomach and ruptured her bowel in the early morning hours of Jan. 29 , 2017 , but he pleads not guilty to one count of manslaughter in connection to her death . Kentner , a 34-year-old mother from Wabigoon Lake Ojibway Nation , required emergency surgery the day after the attack on her small intestine . She died approximately six months later in palliative care . The pathologist who performed the autopsy on Kentner 's body , Dr. Toby Rose , testified Kentner died of bronchopneumonia and acute chronic peritonitis caused by a traumatic rupture in the small intestine due to a blunt force injury to her abdomen . Kentner 's underlying liver condition was also a factor in her death but it was not listed as an immediate cause , according to the autopsy report . Rose also stated in her witness testimony , Kentner 's chronic liver disease put her at risk of death even without the traumatic injury she sustained but determined in her post-mortem examination report the complications as a result of the injury she sustained in January 2017 ultimately hastened her death . Crown attorney Andrew Sadler argued Bushby is guilty of manslaughter despite Kentner suffering from chronic liver disease prior to being hit with the trailer hitch . However Bushby 's defence lawyer , George Joseph , argued there is no legal link between the injury his client inflicted on Kentner and her death months later . Joseph also pointed out Kentner 's surgery to repair her ruptured bowel after the assault was successful according to medical records and every hospital visit after her surgery was related to her liver disease and not from complications of her surgery . Bushby was originally charged with second-degree murder but the charge was later changed to manslaughter and aggravated assault . His trial took place over four days in early November in front of a judge-alone . Judge Helen M. Pierce is expected to present her decision on the case on Monday , Dec. 14 , at 2 p.m . For complete coverage of the trial , go here . Karen Edwards , Local Journalism Initiative Reporter , Thunder Bay Source <p> COVID-19 management took precedence in many Saskatchewan communities in 2020 , including the City of Meadow Lake . City staff working from home for a part of 2020 was a challenge , said Mayor Merlin Seymour , but after the initial setup things went fairly smoothly . Reconfiguring the council chamber did allow councillors to meet up for meetings at the city hall once public gatherings were allowed again , he said . The spring met with a staffing challenge as a new recreation manager was hired . Seymour said they had one goal for them once they were hired , keep the facilities busy during COVID . " He came up with flag football for little kids in the latter part of the school year , etc. , just getting people out , involved , and getting them active . " The November election meant new faces at the council table as two new councillors joined Seymour , who was acclaimed at the beginning of October , and the four councillors who were voted back to the table . This year has been a big one for paving in the city , with $1.2 million worth of paving done . The city has started work on a lift station project which will be a big part of 2021 and the next 10 years to follow , Seymour said , with the project worth $20 million in Disaster Mitigation Funding . This should assist with drainage on the east side of the city . Seymour hopes 2021 will mean the end of COVID-19 and a return to normal , even if that normal will look a little differently than what we are used to , he said . " Hopefully , with the people following the rules from the Chief Medical Health Officer , we can curb some numbers down and get back at it . " Meadow Lake businesses have found ways to adjust to COVID restrictions , including restaurants changing to strictly take out orders . With Christmas coming up , Seymour wants to stress to everyone to shop local for the holidays and support these local businesses that have been struggling through COVID-19 and local organizations that are looking for donations and support for the coming year.Becky Zimmer , Local Journalism Initiative Reporter , The Battlefords Regional News-Optimist <p> The City of Melfort council and staff have been busy over the past week discussing the 2021 city budget . The first meeting on Dec. 8 kicked off the discussion around capital projects and operations and will continue every Tuesday morning until the budget is passed , reported Sandy Peterson , the city treasurer , in a report to council . The five-year general capital plans will see over $465,000 dedicated to public works , community services , and administration projects from reserve interest earnings . Other options to fund these projects will come from grants that city staff have or will be applying for . More than $395,000 from the utility operating reserve will be used for a five-year plan of water main replacements , street paving , and other public works projects . Council has a number of options to choose from in the coming year . Special capital budget items were also included in the discussion with a number of possible new projects for the city to decide on in the coming weeks , including recreational additions to the Spruce Haven development . All decisions made by the council will include spending plans and have to be covered by reserves or other revenue , like government grants . City staff are already looking into funding opportunities for some of these projects , said Peterson in a phone interview . One possible grant is for $24 million over multiple years for the city to replace two water lines . Knowing that these grants are not guaranteed , Peterson said they do have $3.6 million dedicated to starting these projects if government funding is not available for the first year . One program that will continue on into 2021 is the essential sidewalk replacement program with $355,000 dedicated for this coming year , Peterson said . This was a positive first step , said Mayor Glenn George , and work into the budget will continue into the first few council meetings of January . There are plenty of projects that need to be done , he said , and the city council 's job will be to decide which projects will get done in the coming year . It is a tough job , he said.Becky Zimmer , Local Journalism Initiative Reporter , The Battlefords Regional News-Optimist <p> Long queues have been forming outside food banks and help centres in Italy 's financial capital Milan as the economic devastation caused by the coronavirus has deepened before Christmas . As case numbers surged after the summer , Italy - the first European country to be struck by the pandemic and among the worst hit - has seen its stagnant economy dealt a blow by lockdowns to try to halt the spread of COVID-19 . " During this period of the pandemic , the numbers have gone up , " said Luigi Rossi , vice-president of local aid group Pane Quotidiano , as a queue stretched down the block outside the centre in the south of Milan . <p> Anton Kolstee was a musician , an academic , a mentor and teacher with a deep respect for Indigenous culture . This is how Jullian Kolstee describes his dad , who died of COVID-19 on Dec. 8 at 71 years old . But the biggest lesson his father taught him is the value of service . " What matters most is the way that you 've touched the lives of your community and the people around you , " Jullian said.As a child , Kolstee immigrated to Canada from the Netherlands with his parents , settling in Vancouver . In his teenage years , he made his mark on the city 's music scene as a member of the psychedelic rock band United Empire Loyalists -- part of the Fourth Avenue counterculture in the late 1960s.Despite their popularity , the band opted not to go the way of record deals and smash albums . " That was n't part of the culture , " Jullian said . Instead , they hosted long jam sessions and played major bills , opening for The Grateful Dead at the Pender Auditorium and Cream at the Pacific Coliseum.Kolstee took his passion for music into academia . He lived and worked with Indigenous communities in Bella Bella and Bella Coola along B.C. 's coast , focusing on their music and culture as he completed a PhD in ethnomusicology . " He built a relationship and a connection and gained the trust of the elders there , " Jullian said.A career with Indigenous youthIn the 1980s , Kolstee worked as a First Nations counsellor at Carson Graham Secondary in North Vancouver.In his role , he provided support and addressed the unique challenges faced by Indigenous students , many of whom were the first generation to enter the public school system following residential schools.After his father 's death , Jullian said he was overwhelmed by the outpouring of support he received , particularly from Kolstee 's former students . " The things that they had to say about my dad , about the work that he did , and the care , time , attention and focus he gave them , words ca n't describe what it means to me , " Jullian said . One of those students was Squamish Nation Hereditary Chief Ian Campbell . " Our experience in school , oftentimes , we faced blatant racism because we were Indigenous and it was very frustrating ... and he made it safe for us to come in here and enjoy our high school , " Campbell said . Kolstee developed relationships and trust with students and elders of the Squamish Nation . He learned their music and culture , becoming fluent in their language and its preservation , and teaching their mythology.The Squamish Nation honoured him with a name : Skewk , the raven . " Anton will be remembered , for the rest of my life certainly , " Campbell said , holding Kolstee 's drum emblazoned with a raven . " I will always consider Anton as one of my first mentors who shaped me into the man I am today . " Diagnosed with COVID-19 in long-term careKolstee 's career was cut short when he suffered a major heart attack on Father 's Day in 1999 , when Jullian was eight years old . It left him in a coma and with trauma from an anoxic brain injury.When he came out of the coma , his mental , physical and social capacity had changed . He had to relearn how to do everything , his son said . It robbed Kolstee of the things he loved : his music , his intellect , his body , Jullian said . It robbed his family of the father and husband they knew . " He was a limited form of himself , " Jullian said.Kolstee eventually moved into an independent living centre , where he lived for 20 years.In March , he was moved into the Capilano Care Centre long term facility in North Vancouver.The facility was hit hard by COVID-19 in the last month . Kolstee was one of the residents who succumbed to the virus . " I do n't know how to put into words the overwhelming combination of feelings and the release of a really long extended period of preparation and grieving for what we had already lost when I was a child , " Jullian said . Jullian will remember his father 's touch and the care he showed his whole life -- particularly for his family . " What sticks out to me is the way that he 'd pick me up and he 'd hold me and he 'd have me close to him , " Jullian said . " He was very affectionate and he was never afraid to show love . " <p> Visiting Vietnam was an incredible experience , we went to so many places and so many UNESCO heritages . Hoi An is a place that impressed us the most . Then we came to Danang , and everybody mentioned HOI AN , I do n't know how We missed it from our research but here We are on our way to Hoi An . We arrived and we were impressed , is such a Magical Town , so beautiful , not just the town but the food , Oh my gosh . We found that most of the vegetables from this town come from a little village like 5 to 10 minutes away , a community of 50 families and off course we Went there . From Hoi An take a taxi to the TRA QUE Vegetable Village , you will not regret , is free of charge but they have a lot of activities that you can do like : farming , tours inside the village , cooking classes , etc. and they go from $23 to $28 dollars , not bad because that includes food and more things . HOI AN is a town that you have to visit if you come to Vietnam and stay for more than a day if it is possible , in the night this town transform in a Lantern town , so nice . The food is spectacular , you have to try CAO LAU , noodles than can be made just here because they are made with water from a WELL that is very special and different . They say that the water that comes from underground is from a little Island close by that has ashes of the local trees OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT . Off course we went there . We will eat , we will get lost in the town , we will go to temples and more . <p> Fort Simpson is challenging the territory 's other 32 communities to raise donations for the N.W.T. SPCA . Troy Bellefontaine , a village councillor who organized the initiative , says many communities rely on services the SPCA provides such as spay-neuter programs and rehoming dogs . The organization is struggling this year and has not been able to host as many fundraisers due to the pandemic . " In 2019 , it cost the N.W.T. SPCA over $600,000 to provide the services they offer , " a letter prepared by the Village of Fort Simpson states . " In order to keep the shelter running and providing all the essential services they provide , we need to work together to help raise money to keep them going , especially through these difficult times . " Bellefontaine says it 's not about how much each community individually can donate , as not all communities have the same resources . " It 's not about shaming people into anything . It 's just about ' hey , this is the right thing to do , let 's work together , ' " he said . " They 're there for us , they help our community vet clinics . " The Village of Fort Simpson has already donated more than $26,000 to the N.W.T. SPCA through various events and donations from local organizations . " We have seen children donate their birthday money to the animals , while others sold painted rocks or lemonade with all proceeds going to the N.W.T. SPCA , " the village 's letter said . " We wanted to follow the good example set by those children and set an example for other communities to step up and do whatever they can to help . " Bellefontaine asked community administrations who donate as part of the challenge to let the SPCA know so they can track the progress of the initiative.Sarah Sibley , Local Journalism Initiative Reporter , Cabin Radio <p> ANCHORAGE , Alaska -- An analysis of federal data shows Alaska 's high school seniors applied for college financial aid at a lower rate than students in all other U.S. states . Only 11.5% of Alaska 's 2021 senior class applied for higher education financial assistance as of Dec. 4 , The Anchorage Daily News reported Sunday . The Free Application for Federal Student Aid , widely known as FAFSA , started accepting submissions in October . The application , which students usually complete ahead of submitting college applications , provides access to federal and state grants , scholarships and loans . A National College Attainment Network analysis of U.S. Department of Education data found nationwide completion of the application is down 14% compared to the same time last year . In Alaska , the completion rate decreased 23.9% compared to last year . " Being two months into the cycle and seeing the senior class double-digit percentages behind last year is extremely concerning , " said Bill DeBaun , director of data and evaluation at the non-profit network . The decrease can be blamed on the coronavirus , DeBaun said . " When public schools started closing across the country , FAFSA completion took a nosedive , and it never really recovered for the Class of 2020 , " DeBaun said . The rates are worse for the class of graduating seniors in 2021 , he said . Alaska has one of the lowest four-year high school graduation rates in the nation , although the figure has been rising along with the national rate . The drop in Alaska 's financial assistance application completion is more pronounced than what the analysis shows , Debaun said , because the analysis does not account for an increase in the number of high school seniors year-to-year . For most people , the coronavirus causes mild or moderate symptoms , such as fever and cough that clear up in two to three weeks . For some -- especially older adults and people with existing health problems -- it can cause more severe illness , including pneumonia , and death . The Associated Press <p> CAIRO -- The U.S. Embassy in Khartoum said Monday that President Donald Trump 's administration has removed Sudan from the U.S. list of state sponsors of terrorism , a move that could help the African country get international loans to revive its battered economy and end its pariah status.According to a Facebook post by the embassy , Sudan 's removal was effective as of Monday . A notification to that effect , signed by U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo , would be published in the Federal Register , it said , adding that the 45-day congressional notification period has lapsed . " This achievement comes with numerous opportunities for Sudan 's development , " tweeted Sudanese Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok , adding that his country " officially " rejoined the international community as a " peaceful nation supporting global stability " after nearly three-decade of isolation.Pompeo said in a statement that the removal came after Sudan 's transitional government met " the statutory and policy criteria " and charted a " bold new course away from the legacy " of former autocratic President Omar al-Bashir . Delisting Sudan " represents a fundamental change in our bilateral relationship toward greater collaboration , " he said.Sudan is on a fragile transition to democracy following an uprising that led to the military 's ouster of al-Bashir in April 2019 . The county is now ruled by a joint military and civilian government that seeks better ties with Washington and the West.The removal of the terror designation opens the door for the transitional government to get international loans and aid and rescue its transition to democracy . Sudan 's economy has suffered from decades of U.S. sanctions and mismanagement under al-Bashir , who had ruled the country since a 1989 Islamist-backed military coup.Sudan today has more than $60 billion in foreign debt , and debt relief and access to foreign loans are widely seen as its gateway to economic recovery.Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said his agency would work with Congress and the transitional government in Khartoum to advance Sudan 's efforts to secure debt relief in 2021 . The European Union also welcomed the removal of Sudan from the terror list as a " significant milestone " for the country 's transition . Nabila Massrali , a spokesperson for the EU 's External Action Service , said the step moves Sudan closer to " an eventual debt relief " and urged the transitional government to continue the implementation of necessary economic reforms.The designation dates back to the 1990s , when Sudan briefly hosted al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden and other wanted militants . Sudan was also believed to have served as a pipeline for Iran to supply weapons to Palestinian militants in the Gaza Strip.Delisting Sudan is also a key incentive for the government in Khartoum to normalize relations with Israel . The two countries have agreed to have full diplomatic ties , making Sudan the third Arab state -- after the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain -- to move to normalize relations with Israel this year . After Sudan , Morocco also established diplomatic ties with Israel.Sudanese Gen. Abdel-Fattah Burhan , head of the ruling sovereign council , hailed the move as " historic decision " by Trump 's administration . He tweeted Monday that delisting Sudan would " contribute to supporting the democratic transition . " In October , Trump announced that he would remove Sudan from the list if it follows through on its pledge to pay $335 million to American terror victims and their families . Sudan has agreed to pay compensation for victims of the 1998 bombings of the U.S. Embassies in Kenya and Tanzania , attacks carried out by al-Qaida while bin Laden was living in Sudan.According to the October announcement , once the compensation money was deposited , Trump was to sign an order removing Sudan from the terrorism list on which it has languished under heavy American sanctions for 27 years.Since Trump 's announcement , the Sudanese government also inked an agreement with the U.S. that could effectively stop any future compensation claims being filed against the African country in U.S. courts.That deal restores in U.S. courts what is known as sovereign immunity to the Sudanese government . It would however enter into force after U.S. Congress passes legislation needed to implement the agreement . Khartoum has said the $335 million in compensation money would be held in an escrow account until then . Associated Press writer Matthew Lee in Washington contributed to this report.Samy Magdy , The Associated Press <p> LONDON -- Justin Bieber has teamed up with a choir of London medical staff to record a special charity Christmas single . The choir , made up of nurses , doctors and other health care staff working in the British capital 's Lewisham and Greenwich public health service , joined the Canadian pop star for a special version of his song " Holy " in a bid to top the Christmas chart . Choir members recorded their vocals at London 's famous Abbey Road Studios . Profits from the collaboration will go to National Health Service charities . The choir gained fame when it vied with Bieber in 2015 for the Christmas No. 1 song . Bieber urged his millions of fans on Twitter to support the choir , not him , and it eventually won the top spot on the singles chart . The star then travelled to London and presented them with their charity award . " It 's great to be reunited with the Lewisham and Greenwich NHS choir , as we share a fun bit of U.K. chart history together , " said Bieber , 26 . " Especially in these difficult times , I 'm humbled to team up with them for a charity single that will benefit NHS workers on the frontlines of this pandemic and pay tribute to their unbelievable dedication . " Follow AP 's coverage at https : **37;147;TOOLONG and https : **37;186;TOOLONG T ... Associated Press <p> BERLIN -- The Swiss government acknowledged Monday that authorities in the Alpine nation had failed to prevent the illegal adoptions of children from Sri Lanka up until the 1990s . In a statement , the government said it regretted that such adoptions had gone ahead " despite strong indications of , in some cases , serious irregularities . " The issue came to light several years ago after adults who had been adopted as children in the 1980s and 1990s returned to Sri Lanka to find their birth parents , only to discover that information contained in their files was sometimes false . " Despite early and clear indications of illegal adoption placements in Sri Lanka , the ( Swiss ) Confederation and the cantons waited far too long before taking the appropriate action against the irregularities , " the Swiss government said . " The negligence of the authorities has marked the lives of adults adopted as children to this day , " it said . " The Federal Council regrets that the Confederation and the cantons failed to shoulder their responsibility to the children . " The government said it would provide greater support for adoptees searching for their origins and intended to launch a broader historical analysis of possible illegal adoptions in Switzerland . Switzerland only recently acknowledged the suffering of Swiss children who were taken away mainly from poor families and single mothers , and were made to work on farms as late as the 1960s . The Associated Press <p> INDIANAPOLIS -- Neither woman could bring themselves to watch the video of George Floyd 's final moments , his neck pinned under a Minneapolis police officer 's knee.But as their city grieved , Leesa Kelly and Kenda Zellner-Smith found much-needed comfort in the messages of anguish and hope that appeared on boarded-up windows as residents turned miles of plywood into canvases . Now , they 're working to save those murals before they vanish . " These walls speak , " said Zellner-Smith , who said she was too numb to cry after Floyd 's killing . " They 're the expressions of communities . We want these feelings , hopes , calls to action to live on . " Together , the two Black women formed Save the Boards to Memorialize the Movement , part of a push to preserve the ephemeral expressions of anger and pain born of outrage over racial injustice that triggered weeks of protests across the country.Some artists began painting intricate murals , but many spray-painted raw messages of anguish . Zellner-Smith started with the simple pieces . " Some of these boards are n't pretty , " she said . " There is collective pain and grief in each board , and each one tells a different aspect of this story . And now we get to tell that story to everyone . " One is the word " MAMA " scrawled hastily onto the side of an abandoned Walmart . The word was among Floyd 's last . Now it 's part of a database of protest art called the Urban Art Mapping George Floyd and Anti-Racist Street Art database . " The art was changing quickly , and these raw , immediate responses were being erased and painted over , " said Todd Lawrence , an associate professor of English at the University of St. Thomas in St. Paul , Minnesota , and one of the database 's creators . " We want people to see the full range of responses , the complexity , the multitude of voices . " Lawrence and art history professor Heather Shirey were part of a research team already documenting street art . When the streets of countless cities became temporary galleries after Floyd 's death , they set out to capture the art before it disappeared.Although many of the 1,600 artworks in the crowdsourced database come from Minneapolis , Shirey says they hope to expand to pieces from around the world . " Oppression and racial violence is unfortunately universal , so art is responding to it around the world , " she said.Similar work is going on across the country as groups take measures to keep the art alive.In New York City , the Soho Broadway Initiative worked with local arts groups to get permission for murals and provide artists with materials . As murals started coming down , the organization returned 22 artworks to artists and collected 20 more waiting to be returned.In Indianapolis , organizer Malina Jeffers is unsure about the future of the Black Lives Matter street mural stretching across Indiana Avenue . The mural is wearing down from traffic , and with winter will come weather damage and snowplows.But the mural will live on in prints and T-shirts created by the local Black artists behind the original mural . More than 1,000 shirts have been sold . Vinyl banners representing 24 other murals painted in the downtown area are displayed at the city 's Central Library . " All of us know the mural wo n't be there forever , " Jeffers said . " So we all wanted a piece of it to hold onto . " For Seattle 's Black Lives Matter street mural , Mexican American artist Angelina Villalobos , aka 179 , mixed her mother 's ashes into the bright green paint she used for the letter A. City workers scrubbed the mural from the asphalt after it began chipping , but one worker collected paint from each letter , which Villalobos plans to keep on her mother 's altar in the kitchen . " I 'm getting my mom back , but she 's been transformed , " she said . " It 's like ... a time capsule of that mural experience and all the work and thought and pain that went into it . " The original artists have repainted the mural , planning to touch it up again in five years.Designers at the Seattle architecture and design firm GGLO are using a different approach to preserve protest art by creating an augmented reality art show that allows visitors to use smartphones to view works scattered around the city . The show includes a digital version of the " Right to Remain " poster by local artist Kreau , 3D graffiti honouring victims of police brutality and digital tears pouring over Seattle 's skyline.Gargi Kadoo , a member of the design team , says much of the protest art around Seattle was removed . Street art has been erased in many other cities , including Tulsa , Oklahoma , where workers in October removed a Black Lives Matter painting at the site of the Tulsa Race Massacre where in 1921 a white mob attacked a prosperous African American district , killing an estimated 300 people . Other cities such as Indianapolis and New York City have seen their Black Lives Matter murals vandalized . " This is our homage to the art that is gone , " she said . " It 's trying to keep the message alive virtually , in a form that no one can take down or hose off . " In Oakland , California , community arts organizations are preserving and cataloging more than 700 murals . The team is discussing plans including a December outdoor exhibition , a 2021 indoor exhibition , and high school lesson plans centring the artwork , said Jean Marie Durant , president of Oakland Art Murmur Board of Directors.The Black-led Black Cultural Zone has a leading role in the project . " We 've been living this story , this trauma for a long time , " CEO Carolyn Johnson said . " That gives us a perspective that others may not have . We know how to best tell this story . " Back in Minneapolis , Save the Boards is working with researchers Lawrence and Shirey as well as the Minnesota African American Heritage Museum and Gallery to document , archive and plan an exhibition in May 2021 , the anniversary of Floyd 's death.Museum co-founder Tina Burnside says the initiative hopes to preserve the murals in a way that continues dialogue on systemic racism , provides context and allows for public access . " It 's an important chapter in the fight for racial justice in this country , " she said . " We 're documenting history . " Kelly and Zellner-Smith have filled their warehouse space to capacity . They started out by hoarding boards in their garages . Now , they have 537 in a warehouse . They say watching the space fill up was surreal . " Being surrounded by these boards that encompass this pain and grief and hope , it was spiritual , " Kelly said.The group 's next steps are to catalogue the boards , do 3D scans and build a virtual gallery.But while Kelly and Zellner-Smith created a GoFundMe to raise money for the project , funds have quickly dwindled . " They all need to be saved , " Zellner-Smith said . " They all matter , and we want to keep collecting . We 're just a little stuck right now . But the work is far from over . " Fernando is a member of AP 's Race and Ethnicity team . Follow her on Twitter at https : **39;225;TOOLONG Fernando , The Associated Press 
@@52289557 <h> Latest Stories <p> WASHINGTON -- The Electoral College decisively confirmed Joe Biden on Monday as the nation 's next president , ratifying his November victory in an authoritative state-by-state repudiation of President Donald Trump 's refusal to concede he had lost . The presidential electors gave Biden a solid majority of 306 electoral votes to Trump 's 232 , the same margin that Trump bragged was a landslide when he won the White House four years ago . Heightened security was in place in some states as electors met to cast paper ballots , with masks , social distancing and other pandemic precautions the order of the day . The results will be sent to Washington and tallied in a Jan. 6 joint session of Congress over which Vice-President Mike Pence will preside . For all Trump 's unsupported claims of fraud , there was little suspense and no change as every one of the electoral votes allocated to Biden and the president in last month 's popular vote went officially to each man . On Election Day , the Democrat topped the incumbent Republican by more than 7 million in the popular vote nationwide . California 's 55 electoral votes put Biden over the top . Vermont , with 3 votes , was the first state to report . Hawaii , with 4 votes , was the last . " Once again in America , the rule of law , our Constitution , and the will of the people have prevailed . Our democracy -- pushed , tested , threatened -- proved to be resilient , true , and strong , " Biden said in an evening speech in which he stressed the size of his win and the record 81 million people who voted for him . He renewed his campaign promise to be a president for all Americans , whether they voted for him or not , and said the country has hard work ahead on the virus and economy . But there was no concession from the White House , where Trump has continued to make unsupported allegations of fraud . Trump remained in the Oval Office long after the sun set in Washington , calling allies and fellow Republicans while keeping track of the running Electoral College tally , according to White House and campaign aides . The president frequently ducked into the private dining room off the Oval Office to watch on TV , complaining that the cable networks were treating it like a mini-Election Night while not giving his challenges any airtime . The president had grown increasingly disappointed with the size of " Stop the Steal " rallies across the nation as well as efforts for the GOP to field its own slates of electors in states . A presidential wish for a fierce administration defence led to TV appearances early Monday by Stephen Miller , one of his most ferocious advocates , to try to downplay the importance of the Electoral College vote and suggest that Trump 's legal challenges would continue all the way to Inauguration Day on Jan. 20 . Late in the day , he took to Twitter to announce that Attorney General William Barr was leaving the administration before Christmas . Barr 's departure comes amid lingering tension over Trump 's unsupported fraud claims , especially after Barr 's statement this month to The Associated Press that the election results were unaffected by any fraud . In a Fox News interview taped over the weekend , Trump said that " I worry about the country having an illegitimate president , that 's what I worry about . A president that lost and lost badly . " On Monday in Arizona , Georgia , Michigan , Nevada , Pennsylvania and Wisconsin -- the six battleground states that Biden won and Trump contested -- electors gave Biden and Vice-President-elect Kamala Harris their votes in low-key proceedings . Nevada 's electors met via Zoom because of the coronavirus pandemic . Trump 's efforts to undermine the election results also led to concerns about safety for the electors , virtually unheard of in previous years . In Michigan , lawmakers from both parties reported receiving threats , and legislative offices were closed over threats of violence . Biden won the state by 154,000 votes , or 2.8 percentage points , over Trump . Georgia state police were out in force at the state capitol in Atlanta before Democratic electors pledged to Biden met . There were no protesters seen . Even with the Electoral College 's confirmation of Biden 's victory , some Republicans continued to refuse to acknowledge that reality . Yet their opposition to Biden had no practical effect on the electoral process , with the Democrat to be sworn in next month . Republicans who would have been Trump electors met anyway in a handful of states Biden won . Pennsylvania Republicans said they cast a " procedural vote " for Trump and Pence in case courts that have repeatedly rejected challenges to Biden 's victory were to somehow still determine that Trump had won . In North Carolina , Utah and other states across the country where Trump won , his electors turned out to duly cast their ballots for him . Electors in North Carolina had their temperatures checked before being allowed to enter the Capitol to vote . Utah Attorney General Sean Reyes withdrew as a Trump elector and was in quarantine because he was exposed to someone with COVID-19 . Former President Bill Clinton and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton , whom Trump defeated four years ago , were among New York 's 29 electors for Biden and Harris . In New Hampshire , before the state 's four electors voted for Biden at the State House in Concord , 13-year-old Brayden Harrington led the group in the Pledge of Allegiance . He had delivered a moving speech at the Democratic National Convention in August about the struggle with stuttering he shares with Biden . Following weeks of Republican legal challenges that were easily dismissed by judges , Trump and Republican allies tried to persuade the Supreme Court last week to set aside 62 electoral votes for Biden in four states , which might have thrown the outcome into doubt . The justices rejected the effort on Friday . The Electoral College was the product of compromise during the drafting of the Constitution between those who favoured electing the president by popular vote and those who opposed giving the people the power to directly choose their leader . Each state gets a number of electors equal to its total number of seats in Congress : two senators plus however many members the state has in the House of Representatives . Washington , D.C. , has three votes , under a constitutional amendment that was ratified in 1961 . With the exception of Maine and Nebraska , states award all their Electoral College votes to the winner of the popular vote in their state . The bargain struck by the nation 's founders has produced five elections in which the president did not win the popular vote . Trump was the most recent example in 2016 . Associated Press writer Jonathan Lemire and AP writers across the United States contributed to this report . Mark Sherman , The Associated Press <p> The largest mass immunization effort in Canadian history began Monday in Ontario and Quebec after the country received its first COVID-19 vaccine shipment over the weekend.The Canadian military is assisting a massive effort to distribute 249,000 doses developed by pharmaceutical giant Pfizer and German partner BioNTech . Here 's a look at what the various provinces have said about their rollout plans : -- Newfoundland and LabradorPremier Andrew Furey says he anticipates receiving 1,950 doses of the COVID-19 vaccine at the St. John 's receiving site this week.Furey says the province expects another shipment of the vaccine later in the month . -- Prince Edward IslandHealth officials on Prince Edward Island say they are ready to administer the COVID-19 vaccine when the first shipment arrives this week.Chief medical officer of health Dr. Heather Morrison says the province plans to begin by administering the Pfizer vaccine to priority groups , including residents and staff of long-term care homes , health-care workers and adults in Indigenous communities.Morrison says she expects to receive 1,950 doses in the first shipment , and the clinic will have to be held at the storage location because the Pfizer vaccine must be kept frozen.The owner of a bluefin tuna exporting company in the eastern part of P.E.I. has offered up two freezers to the provincial government to aid in the effort to store the vaccine . -- New BrunswickNew Brunswick 's health minister says its shipment of 1,950 doses of the Pfizer vaccine would be used to inoculate long-term care residents and staff , staff from rapid COVID-19 response teams , ambulance workers , health-care workers involved in COVID units , seniors 85 and older and First Nations nurses.Dorothy Shephard says the vaccine plan would be carried out by the provincial Emergency Measures Organization.The first round of vaccinations will be carried out Dec. 19 and 20 at the Miramichi Regional Hospital , which has an ultralow-temperature freezer to store the vaccine . -- Nova ScotiaNova Scotia 's chief medical officer of health says the province will receive 1,950 doses of Pfizer 's vaccine for an initial test run beginning Tuesday.Dr . Robert Strang says the first doses will be used to immunize front-line health workers in the Halifax area who are most directly involved in the pandemic response.Strang says because the vaccine has specific handling requirements , Pfizer has stipulated that the initial round of immunizations take place near where the doses are stored.Nova Scotia has one ultralow-temperature freezer to store the vaccine at the tertiary care teaching complex at the Queen Elizabeth II Health Sciences Centre.Strang says the province is getting another freezer through Ottawa that will operate out of a central depot for vaccines at the public health office in Halifax . The province is also looking at securing freezers from the private sector . -- QuebecThe first doses of Pfizer 's COVID-19 vaccine were administered in the province Monday.Residents of long-term care homes and health-care workers are to have first priority.The groups next in line are people living in private seniors residences , followed by residents of isolated communities and then anyone aged 80 and over . -- OntarioOntario received 6,000 doses of Pfizer 's COVID-19 vaccine over the weekend and began giving them out on Monday.Retired gen . Rick Hiller , who is leading Ontario 's vaccine task force , says half the shots will be administered this week , and the other half will be intentionally held back to give the same workers a required second dose 21 days later . " Given the sort of information flow of what we know about the supply , which is very little at this time ... we decided it was better to err on the side of caution , " he says.An additional 90,000 doses of the Pfizer vaccine are expected to arrive later this month and are to be provided to 14 hospitals in COVID-19 hot spots.Hillier has said the province also expects to receive between 30,000 and 85,000 doses of the Moderna vaccine by the new year , pending its approval by Health Canada.Ontario 's Solicitor General Sylvia Jones said that the hospitals receiving the first shots have made security arrangements to ensure the vaccine is safe from theft . -- ManitobaPremier Brian Pallister says some 900 health-care workers in critical care units will be the first to receive the vaccine after doses start to arrive this week.As more shipments come in , priority will be given to other health-care workers , seniors and Indigenous people.Manitoba hopes to start vaccinating on Wednesday.The province plans to vaccinate more than 100,000 people by March -- that 's roughly seven per cent of Manitoba 's population.Officials say they 've been setting up a large-scale " supersite " to deliver the vaccine . The first freezer able to store the Pfizer vaccine at low temperatures has been delivered and installed , with another four on the way.The province says the vaccine will become more widely available at a larger number of sites , similar to a conventional vaccination campaign , such as the annual flu shot. **26;266;TOOLONG plans to start immunizing critical health-care workers against COVID-19 in a pilot project this week.Premier Scott Moe says the province expects to receive 1,950 doses of Pfizer 's vaccine by Tuesday . A pilot vaccination program at the Regina General Hospital will give the vaccine to health-care workers in intensive and emergency care , COVID-19 units and those working in testing and assessment centres.The first official stage of Saskatchewan 's vaccination program will be in late December when the province receives more doses.It will target more health-care workers , staff and residents in long-term care , seniors over 80 and people in remote areas who are at least 50 . Some 202,052 doses of the Pfizer vaccine are expected to arrive within the first quarter of next year , and there are to be 10,725 weekly allocations.Moe says vaccinations for the general population is expected to begin in April. --AlbertaAlberta Premier Jason Kenney announced in a video released late Monday and recorded next to a cargo plane at Calgary International Airport that the province 's first 3,900 vaccine doses had arrived.Kenney said in the video that ICU nurses are queued up to be the first to receive the vaccine , and that he expected the first dose to be administered in the next 24 hours . Alberta Health Minister Tyler Shandro said earlier in the day that the doses would go to health-care workers and would begin in Edmonton and Calgary.Shandro said another 25,000 Pfizer doses are coming next week and will also be administered to health workers.Doses of the Moderna vaccine are expected by the end of the month.The province says it eventually plans to roll out the vaccine from 30 different locations . -- British ColumbiaBritish Columbia 's provincial health officer , Dr. Bonnie Henry , says the province will start its immunization program on Tuesday with some health workers in long-term care homes getting the vaccine first.Regions of the province covered by the Vancouver Coastal and Fraser health authorities are first in line to get the Pfizer vaccine , which arrived on Monday.The vaccine is expected to be available in the rest of the province by next week.Workers in long-term care facilities are at the top of the list to get the vaccine.Henry expects about 400,000 people to be vaccinated by March.The province said it is developing a system so people can register to get the vaccine and receive a formal record of immunization. -- NunavutNunavut 's premier says the territory will get the vaccine made by Moderna in the first quarter of 2021 . Joe Savikataaq says Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has told him Nunavut will get enough doses to vaccinate 75 per cent of the population . Chief public health officer Dr. Michael Patterson says Nunavut will prioritize elders and health-care workers first for the vaccine . Savikataaq says his government is still working on its plan to roll out the vaccine once it arrives in the territory . Northwest Territories The premier of the Northwest Territories says N.W.T. will receive 51,000 doses of the Moderna vaccine in the new year . Caroline Cochrane says that 's enough to vaccinate 75 per cent of the population ages 18 and up . The territory is creating a vaccine team made up of nurses and support staff to travel to smaller communities . Health Minister Julie Green says two specialized freezers for storing the vaccines are on their way from the federal government and will be placed in Yellowknife and Inuvik . Smaller , portable freezers are also on the way and will be placed in smaller communities . -- YukonYukon says it will get enough of the Moderna vaccine by spring to vaccinate 75 per cent of its residents.A statement from the Yukon government says the territory 's allocation is in recognition of it 's large Indigenous populations and remote communities.Premier Sandy Silver says getting vaccinated is the best thing residents can do to protect themselves and their loved ones . " Over time , widespread immunization will allow us to return to a life without COVID-19 restrictions . " This report by The Canadian Press was first published Dec. 14 , 2020 . The Canadian Press <p> SIOUX FALLS , S.D. -- Deaths from the coronavirus pandemic are spiking across the country , yet a new poll finds little increase in alarm among Americans about COVID-19 infections and no significant change in opinion about how the government should act to slow the spread.The survey from The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research finds about 4 in 10 Americans say they are extremely or very worried about themselves or a family member being infected with the virus , about the same as in October and slightly lower than in surveys conducted in March and in July . Stable majorities continue to favour requirements that people wear masks and limit the size of gatherings.The risks of infection are greater than ever across broad swaths of the country -- more than 1 million people tested positive for the coronavirus over five days last week . The surge has led to record numbers of daily virus deaths as the U.S. nears 300,000 people dying from the virus over the course of the pandemic.The nation 's top health officials have pleaded with Americans to redouble their efforts to prevent infections , especially during the holidays . Roughly three-quarters of Americans say they 're at least somewhat worried about the virus , a figure that 's about the same as in October . In March and then again in July , about half of Americans were highly worried . " We know our risks . We see what 's happening . We see people dying , " said Sarah Totta , a 36-year-old from Kansas City , Missouri . " But to be honest , I think we knew this was coming in the winter , and I just think you have to manage the risks . " Support for stay-at-home orders peaked in April , with about 8 in 10 in favour , and has steadily dipped since . Fifty per cent now support requiring Americans to stay home except for essential errands , up somewhat from 44% in October . Now 45% favour closing bars and restaurants , just slightly higher than 41% two months ago . About a third of Americans oppose both steps.Totta , a Republican , viewed forced closures as a last resort to be taken only when hospitals become overburdened . She said she would prefer that governments take an " empowering rather than controlling " approach but acknowledged her area could have benefited from a lockdown in the fall as the Midwest saw case counts rise.The survey 's findings highlight the stark differences between how Republicans and Democrats view the pandemic . Concern about the virus and support for restrictions remain overwhelming among Democrats . About 9 in 10 are at least somewhat worried about infections , compared with about 6 in 10 Republicans.As California Gov . Gavin Newsom , a Democrat , this month took his most aggressive actions since the spring to try to prevent hospitals from being overwhelmed with patients , 26-year-old Lisa Main , who works in sales at a hotel , worried what effect it would have on the economy . " In complete honesty , I think this pandemic is kind of blown out of proportion , " said Main , who is a Republican . " I went to a wedding , and no one 's gotten sick from that . " Meanwhile , Republican South Dakota Gov . Kristi Noem has derided mask mandates , even as her state suffers through the nation 's highest rate of deaths per capita in recent weeks . To defend her approach , Noem has pointed out that the virus is running rampant even in states where Democratic governors such as Newsom have issued strict orders . " I hate that the coronavirus has turned political , but it has , " Totta said.In Florida , where Republican Gov . Ron DeSantis has stridently opposed ordering bars and restaurants to close , 26-year-old Lewis Venegas , an independent , felt frustrated at seeing cases increase , fearing his mother and stepmother are vulnerable . He said it 's impossible to stay socially distanced from people at the Walmart store in Miami where he works , though most people wear masks.The fears of the pandemic have at times become overwhelming , he said : " I got to the point where I was so scared that I just started crying uncontrollably . " Support for requirements that would limit interactions still has broad support from Americans overall . Roughly two-thirds favour restricting gatherings to 10 people or fewer . And three-quarters favour requiring people to wear masks when around others outside their homes.About 9 in 10 Democrats support a mask mandate and a limit on the size of gatherings . About three-quarters support stay-home orders , up somewhat from about 6 in 10 in October . And 66% think bars and restaurants should be closed , an uptick from 56% two months ago.About 6 in 10 Republicans oppose stay-home orders and bar and restaurant closures . A slim majority , 55% , support a mask mandate , while 26% are opposed . Opposition to stay-home orders , limits on gatherings and bar and restaurant closures has grown steadily among Republicans over the course of the pandemic.In some pockets of the West and Midwest , where a fall wave of cases has been particularly devastating , arguments over mask mandates have turned ugly . Local officials have faced threats and protests as they grappled with ways to slow infections . " I just do n't like being told what to do , " said Fred Carrigan , a 58-year-old from Portland , Indiana , who expressed a deep distrust of any government action.That kind of skepticism could hinder health officials who are now working to convince millions of Americans that forthcoming vaccines are safe and effective . Experts estimate at least 70% of the U.S. population needs to be vaccinated to hold the virus in check , but the survey found that only about half of Americans are ready to get the shots when they become available.But for Jill VonOhlen , 72 , the vaccine presented some light at the end of a long , and at times dark , year . " I 'm absolutely amazed that we have a vaccine . The fact that we have that really does give me hope , " she said . " I 'll be first in line , no doubt . I 'll just have to hear that ( Dr. Anthony ) Fauci or someone says it 's OK . ' " Fingerhut reported from Washington . The AP-NORC poll of 1,117 adults was conducted Dec. 3-7 using a sample drawn from NORC 's probability-based AmeriSpeak Panel , which is designed to be representative of the U.S. population . The margin of sampling error for all respondents is plus or minus 3.9 percentage points . Online:AP-NORC Center : http : **25;294;TOOLONG Groves And Hannah Fingerhut , The Associated Press <p> Anton Kolstee was a musician , an academic , a mentor and teacher with a deep respect for Indigenous culture . This is how Jullian Kolstee describes his dad , who died of COVID-19 on Dec. 8 at 71 years old . But the biggest lesson his father taught him is the value of service . " What matters most is the way that you 've touched the lives of your community and the people around you , " Jullian said.As a child , Kolstee immigrated to Canada from the Netherlands with his parents , settling in Vancouver . In his teenage years , he made his mark on the city 's music scene as a member of the psychedelic rock band United Empire Loyalists -- part of the Fourth Avenue counterculture in the late 1960s.Despite their popularity , the band opted not to go the way of record deals and smash albums . " That was n't part of the culture , " Jullian said . Instead , they hosted long jam sessions and played major bills , opening for The Grateful Dead at the Pender Auditorium and Cream at the Pacific Coliseum.Kolstee took his passion for music into academia . He lived and worked with Indigenous communities in Bella Bella and Bella Coola along B.C. 's coast , focusing on their music and culture as he completed a PhD in ethnomusicology . " He built a relationship and a connection and gained the trust of the elders there , " Jullian said.A career with Indigenous youthIn the 1980s , Kolstee worked as a First Nations counsellor at Carson Graham Secondary in North Vancouver.In his role , he provided support and addressed the unique challenges faced by Indigenous students , many of whom were the first generation to enter the public school system following residential schools.After his father 's death , Jullian said he was overwhelmed by the outpouring of support he received , particularly from Kolstee 's former students . " The things that they had to say about my dad , about the work that he did , and the care , time , attention and focus he gave them , words ca n't describe what it means to me , " Jullian said . One of those students was Squamish Nation Hereditary Chief Ian Campbell . " Our experience in school , oftentimes , we faced blatant racism because we were Indigenous and it was very frustrating ... and he made it safe for us to come in here and enjoy our high school , " Campbell said . Kolstee developed relationships and trust with students and elders of the Squamish Nation . He learned their music and culture , becoming fluent in their language and its preservation , and teaching their mythology.The Squamish Nation honoured him with a name : Skewk , the raven . " Anton will be remembered , for the rest of my life certainly , " Campbell said , holding Kolstee 's drum emblazoned with a raven . " I will always consider Anton as one of my first mentors who shaped me into the man I am today . " Diagnosed with COVID-19 in long-term careKolstee 's career was cut short when he suffered a major heart attack on Father 's Day in 1999 , when Jullian was eight years old . It left him in a coma and with trauma from an anoxic brain injury.When he came out of the coma , his mental , physical and social capacity had changed . He had to relearn how to do everything , his son said . It robbed Kolstee of the things he loved : his music , his intellect , his body , Jullian said . It robbed his family of the father and husband they knew . " He was a limited form of himself , " Jullian said.Kolstee eventually moved into an independent living centre , where he lived for 20 years.In March , he was moved into the Capilano Care Centre long term facility in North Vancouver.The facility was hit hard by COVID-19 in the last month . Kolstee was one of the residents who succumbed to the virus . " I do n't know how to put into words the overwhelming combination of feelings and the release of a really long extended period of preparation and grieving for what we had already lost when I was a child , " Jullian said . Jullian will remember his father 's touch and the care he showed his whole life -- particularly for his family . " What sticks out to me is the way that he 'd pick me up and he 'd hold me and he 'd have me close to him , " Jullian said . " He was very affectionate and he was never afraid to show love . " <p> It 's been 291 days since the first case of a deadly new virus was recorded in Quebec . Since then COVID-19 has killed 7,533 people in the province , left hundreds with long-lasting symptoms and disrupted the lives of everyone else , young and old.But on Monday , around 11:30 a.m. , 89-year-old Gis ? le L ? vesque rolled up her sleeve and became the first Canadian to receive a COVID-19 vaccine , setting in motion a giant inoculation effort that promises to end the nightmare . " I see this as the first step forward into the light , ' ' federal Health Minister Patty Hajdu said at a news conference in Montreal , not long after vaccines began to be administered in Quebec City , Montreal and Toronto.It was by the most prosaic of means that the first batches of the vaccine arrived at CHSLD Saint-Antoine in Quebec City , where L ? vesque lives , and the Maimonides Geriatric Centre in C ? te Saint-Luc : UPS delivery truck . Inside , staff had been practising how to handle the precious cargo . The vaccine , manufactured by Pfizer and BioNTech , has to be stored between -- 80 C to -- 60 C , and then thawed for injection . Quebec will receive only 4,000 doses this week and selected two centrally located long-term care homes in an effort to vaccinate as many residents and staff as possible.The provincial health minister , Christian Dub ? , said everything went according to plan on Monday . He expects there will be 21 vaccination sites in the province by next week , and predicted as many as 50,000 Quebecers will be vaccinated by early January . " Usually , I 'm very calm . But , as you can see , I 'm quite excited . This is great news for Quebec , " Dub ? told reporters Monday , outside Maimonides . ' It 's important to keep living'The excitement was palpable . After months of tightly structured briefings from health officials and political leaders , all formality dissolved when staff at Maimonides escorted 78-year-old Gloria Lallouz outside.Lallouz was the first resident to receive the vaccine , and both journalists and politicians alike abandoned the news conference to applaud her , thank her and ask her how she felt . " Fabulous , " she said . Lallouz had been confined to her room for months because of the pandemic , and she said she relished the prospect of regaining some freedom . " It 's important to keep living , " she said.The pandemic has exacted a heavy toll on Maimonides , as it has on dozens of other CHSLDs around Quebec . Fifteen residents at Maimonides have died of COVID-19 this fall , on top of nearly forty who were killed in the spring.Nearly all of the 300 residents have signed up to receive the vaccine . " We need to stop the deaths here , " said Beverly Spanier , a retired school teacher and Maimonides resident who was also vaccinated on Monday . " We can not continue to go on forever in a situation where no one can leave their rooms , where we ca n't have a life of normalcy , " Spanier added.The Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine requires two injections three weeks apart in order for the immunity to develop . Spanier said she has big plans once she gets the second dose , including visiting a dentist as well as a friend in intensive care . " I will have a big sign on me : ' Vaccinated , let me out , ' " she said.Signs of reluctance among staffAlong with the residents at Maimonides and the CHSLD Saint-Antoine , staff and other local health-care workers will be among the first Quebecers to receive the vaccine this week.But whereas the residents have volunteered in large numbers for the shots , there were some signs of reluctance among health-care workers on Monday morning.A senior Montreal-area health official told Radio-Canada that only between 35 and 40 per cent of the staff at Maimonides had signed up for the vaccine . " There is more work to do to increase overall vaccinations , " Francine Dupuis , the associate CEO of the health authority that oversees Maimonides , told reporters at the news conference.She explained that some health-care workers wanted to wait and see if the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine will have any side-effects.Only mild side-effects -- such as fever or fatigue , which are common with vaccines -- have been reported so far . Health Canada says it has no safety concerns . " I think the vaccine is something that will take some time to get accustomed to , " Dub ? said . " We said very clearly over the last few weeks we will not force anybody to be vaccinated . I think that 's the best way to go . " More restrictions comingWhile the vaccinations on Monday sent ripples of hope throughout the province , the virus continues to wreak havoc across the province.The number of daily cases continues to climb and hospitals in Quebec City and Saguenay -- Lac-Saint-Jean are struggling to keep up with the surge of COVID-19 patients.Premier Fran ? ois Legault is expected to announce additional closures and restrictions on Tuesday , in an attempt to use the holiday period to slow the spread of the disease . " We 're going to have to tighten restrictions in businesses , " he said in an interview on Monday . " We will have to close them for a time . There are too many contacts , and we have to reduce them . " <p> LANSING , Mich. -- A Republican lawmaker was disciplined Monday for not denouncing potential violence at the Michigan Capitol before Democratic presidential electors met to vote for Joe Biden , who defeated President Donald Trump in the swing state.State Rep. Gary Eisen , of St. Clair Township , told WPHM-AM that he planned to help with an unspecified " Hail Mary " GOP plan to challenge the election , conceding that the " uncharted " action likely would not change the result . Asked if he could guarantee people 's safety , he said " no . " House Speaker Lee Chatfield and Speaker-elect Jason Wentworth , both Republicans , removed Eisen from committees in the closing days of the two-year session . In a statement , they said threats or suggestions of violence in politics are never acceptable , including " when the public officials open the door to violent behaviour and refuse to condemn it . We must do better . " The 16 electors later cast their votes for Biden during a meeting also attended by top state Democrats such as Gov . Gretchen Whitmer , Secretary of State Jocelyn Benson and Attorney General Dana Nessel.The Capitol was closed to the public due to coronavirus restrictions because neither the House nor Senate were in session , though some Republicans , including Eisen , were critical of the closure on the day of the Electoral College meeting . Legislative offices in the Statehouse and nearby buildings also were closed due to " credible threats of violence , " a Senate spokeswoman said.Eisen was among 15 Republican legislators and four GOP congressmen in Michigan who signed onto a Texas lawsuit asking the U.S. Supreme Court to set aside votes in four states due to baseless claims of widespread fraud , including in Michigan . The court dismissed the case.Michigan 's Republican legislative leaders have said the Legislature followed state law in not overturning Biden 's 154,000-vote victory in the state -- a margin of 2.8 percentage points.Eisen , a first-term legislator , issued a statement saying he regretted " confusion " over his remarks and no longer planned to go to the Capitol with a group that supports an alternative slate of would-be GOP electors . They were turned away from entering the Statehouse later Monday . " I wanted to attend today 's event to help prevent violence , not promote it , " he said . " My comments were meant to reflect that while our group intends to be peaceful , I did not feel I could speak for other groups . Apparently some people are making credible threats of violence today , and I am glad local law enforcement is on the scene preventing any such action and keeping everyone safe . " House Speaker Lee Chatfield , a Republican , said the Legislature chose decades ago to award electors to the winner of the popular vote and the Supreme Court has ruled that the right can not be infringed on retroactively.It was the second time in less than a week that House leaders punished a member . Democratic Rep. Cynthia Johnson , of Detroit , lost her committee spots because she took to social media to warn " Trumpers , " after saying she received at least one racist threat that she should be lynched following a hearing in which Trump lawyer Rudy Giuliani falsely alleged that there had been mass fraud in Detroit . Follow David Eggert at https : **32;321;TOOLONG Eggert , The Associated Press <p> Windsor police say they are ready to enforce restrictions related to the region-wide lockdown that came into effect overnight on Monday.In a statement , the police force said it would be monitoring compliance and using enforcement actions " as necessary . " " While our officers have endeavoured to strike a measured balance between enforcement and community support during previous zones of the public health measures , we are now in a critical stage that urgently calls for compliance , " Windsor police said in a statement Sunday.The move to the grey " lockdown " zone for Windsor-Essex was announced Friday afternoon after weeks of escalating COVID-19 cases.Under the new framework , indoor gatherings with people outside the same household are banned and non-essential businesses can remain open for curbside pick up/delivery only.Essential businesses such as grocery stores and pharmacies have to remain at 50 per cent capacity . In a news release Monday , the City of Windsor said in the last week , bylaw officers conducted 166 COVID-19 checks , 40 of which were complaints made by the community . During this enforcement blitz , four charges were laid -- one was related to no masking and three were in regards to no safety plan . Provincial COVID-19 laws come with penalties of up to $100,000 and a year in jail for individuals . A corporation could be fined up to $10 million.Over the weekend , Windsor-Essex saw 115 new COVID-19 cases and five additional deaths were announced . <p> The Law Society of Alberta wants disbarred Edmonton lawyer Shawn Beaver sent to jail for one year for what it calls " egregious and flagrant " misconduct . Beaver 's lawyer has asked Court of Queen 's Bench Associate Chief Justice John Rooke to consider community service and impose a fine instead . Rooke will issue his written decision on sentencing before Christmas . Beaver was disbarred in February 2017 after the Law Society of Alberta found he had stolen from clients ' trust accounts . While the case was still being considered , the court issued an injunction prohibiting Beaver from doing any legal work . In May 2020 , Rooke determined Beaver had deliberately violated the injunction by using another lawyer as a shield to secretly practise law . He found Beaver guilty of contempt of court . In a written sentencing submission to the court , the law society 's Sharon Heine argued that Beaver also provided covert legal services to two of his friends and once even went to court to support a friend who was criminally charged . Heine also noted that just a week after Beaver was found guilty of contempt in May 2020 , he posted an ad on Kijiji titled , " Legal instruction from the best . " After the law society raised concerns , Beaver deleted the ad . " To this date , Beaver refuses to accept that he is not entitled to practise law , " Heine said in the submission . " The suggestion that financial desperation justifies a lack of compliance with the injunction order is a theme repeated by Beaver throughout these proceedings . " The law society argued that Beaver only apologized to the court after he was found guilty of contempt . It calls Beaver 's apology " parsed and qualified , " noting he avoided making any specific admissions of wrongdoing or taking personal responsibility for his actions . " It is the LSA 's position that Beaver 's apology is too little , too late , " the court document states . ' Incarceration is a last resort ' A written sentencing submission from Beaver 's lawyer Simon Renouf suggests Beaver had a turning point in late August 2020 when the law society was insisting on a jail term . " Incarceration is a last resort , " Renouf wrote . " He has made promises for the future and should be given that opportunity . He is of good character as shown by the evidence . " He argued that Beaver 's apology was complete and straightforward , along with his promise to longer practise law . To support his sentencing submissions , Renouf presented eight letters written by Beaver 's recent paralegal students at CDI College in Edmonton . " We like Shawn and his teaching style . He knows the law and has a passion for it . He taught us to respect the law and its terms , " one letter states . Two of Beaver 's adult daughters also submitted affidavits that were entered as exhibits , but they were not allowed to testify or be cross-examined at the sentencing hearing . Erin Beaver defends her father , but not his past actions . My father has made a tragic mistake - Erin Beaver " My father made a tragic mistake in a portion of his life and career and he never sugar-coated it to me , " Erin Beaver wrote in her sworn affidavit . " He was left completely alone , and had no one , an empty wallet and a damaged reputation . The image in my head is a man being repeatedly kicked to the ground after a mistake he had made , given no ability to come out strong . " She begged the judge not to imprison her father . " Leave him where he is needed with his family , " she wrote . " Leave him where he belongs to work , in order to repay his debts . Putting him away will only delay this . " Those concerns were echoed by Beaver 's lawyer who suggested that sending him to jail would lead to financial collapse for the family and the removal of lawful employment . Beaver did not respond to a request from CBC for an interview . He will find out in the next two weeks if he can spend Christmas with his family or in jail . <p> Gail Degagne is relatively new to municipal politics but she feels comfortable taking on the role of Chisholm mayor with the support of a strong council , staff and community members . " Kind of overwhelming at this point , " Degagne said after being appointed to the position this week . She is replacing long-time mayor Leo Jobin , who resigned recently to focus on his health . Degagne , who teaches at M.T . Davidson in Callander , joined council shortly after the 2018 election as an appointment to take a vacated seat . While it 's been a whirlwind ascension , she feels both honoured and fortunate to be supported well to begin the journey . " I 'm looking forward to it . It 's quite an honour , that 's for sure , " Degagne said . " I 'm lucky that I have the support of Leo Jobin , the previous mayor . He 's been in my court and he 's agreed to also be a mentor to me through this process . " So it 's nice to know that I have his expertise to be able to kind of fall back on and rely on too , or if you need somebody to kind of bounce ideas off of . So that 's a nice thing , too , " she said . Related story : Long-time Chisholm mayor resigns for health reasons Community involvement is a tradition in her family . Aime Laferriere , the late grandfather of her husband , Andre , was on Chisholm council for two decades . " It 's important to the community , both to me and my family , " she said , describing her perspective on community-centric leadership . " We had our Grand-Pere ( Aime ) Laferriere , who he was on council for , gosh , it was more than 20 years . And so it 's just kind of that family tradition of being involved within the community and keeping the people of Chisholm at the heart of those decisions , which is what Leo did . He was really good at making sure that when every decision was made , it was made in the best interest of the people . " That 's really what I aspire to do ... continue to make sure that the voices of all the people in Chisholm are being represented and that Chisholm continues to be a great community to live in , " she said . There are almost 1,300 people in the community east of Powassan and south of Lake Nosbonsing with Wasi Lake at its heart . " We want more people to come and live and work in Chisholm , and we can only do that if it 's a nice community that they want to move to . Right ? So it 's got to be about the people , " Degagne said . While there 's been a lot of changes on council , she feels the current mix leaves a solid core . " We have a really strong council right now and that 's a positive going into all of this , you can really use the strength of the council that we have in , " Degagne said , noting they 'll have to decided how to fill her vacant seat after she official becomes mayor Jan. 12 . Deputy Mayor Nunzio Scarfone , for example , is " very intelligent , " she said . " He 's got history with the roads and he worked closely with the North Bay-Mattawa Conservation Authority . " " And then you get Jim , ( James Gauthier ) , he 's on the lake as well as the other , both live on the lake ( Wasi ) . But he knows about the lake and he 's very passionate about the Internet and collective agreements . And he comes from a policing background . " And then just recently , we got Bernadette Kerr and she 's been a longstanding community member . She 's been in this community forever . And she knows everybody and has all of those relationships , those personal relationships , more at a grassroots level , " Degagne said . " So , yeah , I think it 's a really well-balanced council and I think , for me , it 's a good time to step into that role because I 've got such strong people behind me , it supports that learning curve . " I 'm not going to claim that I know anything or everything about the role . I am here to learn and I 'm here to learn along with my colleagues . And again , thankfully , I have Leo in my back pocket who 's willing to support me as well , " she said . " They 'll bring different strengths to the table . So I think about that diversity piece too , and then us collectively and collaboratively working through so many of the issues . " Asked about her vision for the future , Degagne said it will require coming together to chart a course that everybody can get behind , including the surrounding townships . " I think it 's about a bunch of pieces , but I think one is about building relationships and trusting relationships with not only council and staff and the community , but other communities , too , " she said . There 's a lot of work , however , that needs to be undertaken before dividends are realized . " Investing that time and energy and having those meaningful interactions means that people are going to buy into what 's happening in the community and they 're going to become more invested in what 's happening to the community and more engaged . " Strategic planning , by it 's nature , brings community members together , she said . " It 's going to promote engagement , which I think is huge . And then it makes things transparent as well because people know what 's happening , " Degagne said , adding it helps leadership when the mandate is clear . " That makes it easier to advocate for the community because you really have a good sense of what 's happening and what their concerns are or ideas , things that they want . And I think that if you 're consistent and you 're transparent and you develop those relationships , then there 's a common message going out to the community . " What are some of the priorities ? " We 've been working on our asset management plan , " Degagne said of the council and staff work already underway . " We 're really looking at how we maintain our current infrastructure and how do we then improve on what we 've already got and where are the hotspots ? " So that 's something that we 're continuing to work on ... really examining our roads and seeing where the needs are . " Degagne is also interested in doing what they can to protect the environment and Chisholm 's immediate ecosystem as much as possible . " " Quite some time ago , I put a motion of support to declare a state of emergency in terms of the environment . We need to really start examining our gas emissions and what we 're putting into our landfills , " Degagne said , explaining how they 've already started to reduce some of recyclable garbage . Related story : Chisholm takes a bite out of plastic waste It will be important to see how things are changing through recent legislation as recycling moves from a consumer to producer responsibility , she said . Degagne said she 's also working the North Bay-Mattawa Conservation Authority as it tries to ascertain how new legislation will erode its power to shape development . " That 's quite concerning , so that 's something I 'll continue to investigate and monitor the implications of that , " she said . It boils down to making sure they have a solid plan based on the latest information . " So we 're currently reviewing our strategic plan . Our CEO was in training ... getting that global vision , a really clear picture of what we are doing really well and what do we need to do better and then how are we going to move in that direction ? I think that 's going to be a beneficial piece ... to clearly know where we are , where we 're going and what 's the best way to get there , " Degagne said . " We also have our service delivery model and it 's under review , " she said , with provincial funding allowing them to work with Watson and Associates consults for an upcoming report . " It 's being put together now and be able to present that to council in the new year . And I 'm looking forward to really implementing some of the recommendations that I saw in the preliminary report . " She said it looks at the strengths and weaknesses , what can be enhanced with additional investment and what can be trimmed , she said . " So it 's not just about cutting , " Degagne said , more about " where we can do better with our money . " Maintain balanced budgets is a priority , as it has been in the past , she said , adding it 's about " trying to really make the most out of our tax dollars , getting the best bang for our buck . " Dave Dale is a Local Journalism Reporter with BayToday.ca . LJI is funded by the Government of Canada.Dave Dale , Local Journalism Initiative Reporter , BayToday.ca <p> After being trapped at home for 10 days because of high water levels , Mary Ann Coleman was finally able to leave her property this weekend . And it was all thanks to nearby resident Tony Raymond , who stepped up to build a walking bridge for the Sussex-area woman last Tuesday . The project was finished three days later . " I 'm giddy just being on the other side of the bridge , " said Coleman . " It 's absolutely amazing just to be able to come and go . " Coleman , lives on Creek Road in Waterford , about 90 kilometres east of Saint John . She lost her bridge after a major rainstorm flooded Trout Creek earlier this month.The creek runs along the front of her property . She said debris in the creek dammed a culvert that was installed by the Department of Transportation last year -- and rising water levels washed away her bridge.And she 's been stuck at home ever since -- with the exception of taking a small dingy across the creek to celebrate her 64th birthday on the side of the road last weekend with a slice of pizza.Raymond heard about Coleman 's situation the morning after the heavy rainstorm . So he drove out to see the damage . " She was in a real disaster and somebody had to come up with an idea , " said the local contractor.When he learned the province was n't going to help , Raymond knew he had to intervene.So he hired a welder and gathered some new and used material for the bridge . " Rural people help other rural people out , " he said.Lack of access ' debilitating ' This past weekend , Coleman has been able to leave her home to run a few errands , like getting the mail -- which has been piling up quite a bit . She 's had visits from friends , neighbours and her two grand-daughters . She even had a friend over to decorate her bridge with Christmas lights . " It 's just amazing that he Raymond would help me . " Coleman said the Emergency Measures Organization was considering putting in a walking bridge to help her come and go from her property . But later informed her a bridge would not be installed . " It 's very hard to imagine when a person is in this kind of situation that the province 's response is so inadequate , " she said . " Then a private citizen steps up to the plate with his own resources and accomplishes it in a week . " Coleman is n't sure how much the walking bridge will cost , but she 's grateful nonetheless . " I do n't think any flood would knock that bridge out . " But the lack of access over the past ten days has caused a lot of anxiety and stress . She 's even had trouble sleeping most nights . " It 's quite debilitating , just not knowing what to do . " Walking bridge a ' temporary fix'Her property has also sustained extensive damage from the flood . The river has been running through her shed and driveway and about two feet of water was in her basement.Although the water has gone down since temperatures dropped , it 's still too high to walk across . " I would need the bridge , " she said.Although Coleman can leave her home , she still needs a driving bridge -- especially during an emergency.She 's filed a claim with the province and she 's hopeful to get some kind of help . " The bridge is a temporary solution that will get me through the winter , " she said . <p> COVID-19 management took precedence in many Saskatchewan communities in 2020 , including the City of Meadow Lake . City staff working from home for a part of 2020 was a challenge , said Mayor Merlin Seymour , but after the initial setup things went fairly smoothly . Reconfiguring the council chamber did allow councillors to meet up for meetings at the city hall once public gatherings were allowed again , he said . The spring met with a staffing challenge as a new recreation manager was hired . Seymour said they had one goal for them once they were hired , keep the facilities busy during COVID . " He came up with flag football for little kids in the latter part of the school year , etc. , just getting people out , involved , and getting them active . " The November election meant new faces at the council table as two new councillors joined Seymour , who was acclaimed at the beginning of October , and the four councillors who were voted back to the table . This year has been a big one for paving in the city , with $1.2 million worth of paving done . The city has started work on a lift station project which will be a big part of 2021 and the next 10 years to follow , Seymour said , with the project worth $20 million in Disaster Mitigation Funding . This should assist with drainage on the east side of the city . Seymour hopes 2021 will mean the end of COVID-19 and a return to normal , even if that normal will look a little differently than what we are used to , he said . " Hopefully , with the people following the rules from the Chief Medical Health Officer , we can curb some numbers down and get back at it . " Meadow Lake businesses have found ways to adjust to COVID restrictions , including restaurants changing to strictly take out orders . With Christmas coming up , Seymour wants to stress to everyone to shop local for the holidays and support these local businesses that have been struggling through COVID-19 and local organizations that are looking for donations and support for the coming year.Becky Zimmer , Local Journalism Initiative Reporter , The Battlefords Regional News-Optimist <p> The Saskatchewan Health Authority have had health regulations in place to stop the spread of COVID-19 since the pandemic first came to Saskatchewan early this year . Stepping up the regulations has been part of their recent mandates as COVID-19 numbers have begun to climb higher and faster in the last month . Nov. 19 saw heavier mask requirements in indoor public spaces across the province . Alberta took the same route on Nov. 24 , with requirements being put in place in Edmonton and Calgary . Since that time , media channels in Alberta have seen numerous reports of violence and non-compliance . RCMP detachments across east central Saskatchewan are reporting that this has not been the case in Saskatchewan communities , including Melfort , Tisdale , and Nipawin . Cpl . Josh Martin , acting detachment commander of the Nipawin RCMP , said they have been focusing on education rather than ticketing when it comes to mask complaints but have had few issues with people choosing not to wear masks . So far no charges have been laid . " We are seeing a little bit of non-compliance , particularly with some of the self-isolating issues , but we 're addressing those with public health . " Martin urges people to comply with Health Authority Guidelines and take precautions to stop the spread of COVID-19 so that the province and the country can get out of this pandemic . Both Cpl . Mike Benjamin with the Tisdale RCMP and S/Sgt . Adare Guest with the Melfort RCMP have had little to report about residents not complying with mask regulations , saying people have been good about wearing masks in public spaces in their communities.Becky Zimmer , Local Journalism Initiative Reporter , The Battlefords Regional News-Optimist <p> Stratus Vineyards in Niagara-on-the-Lake is taking wine connoisseurs on a journey back to 6000 BC , when wine was first mastered by monks in Georgia 's " cradle of wine . " Inside of the depths of Stratus ' barrel cellar , assistant winemaker , Dean Stoyka , is less a monk and more a quick-talking , mad scientist . Throughout the cellar sit experimental wine creations -- what Stoyka refers to as " research and development . " Standing out the most , among traditional French oak and shiny stainless steal barrels , is an egg-shaped vessel that looks like it could be destined to rocket wine off to the moon . But this is no space-age vessel , rather it 's reminiscent of a bygone era of winemaking , when pressed grapes were placed into a qvevri -- pronounced " kway-vree " -- and buried beneath the ground 's surface to ferment and age . Fashioned from sandstone and cooked at 1,300 degrees Celsius , the imported vessel 's dry , beige interior slowly stained red as the vessel filled with 1,000 litres of this year 's Cabernet Franc . " When the industrial revolution happened that just moved winemaking so far forward for everyone , " Stoyka said , wearing a shirt that read " crush grapes not dreams . " ? " Wines went from being individually unique wines from single vineyards to all the wines from a region would sort of taste similar because the winemaking is so commercialized , " he explained . " We 're going back to the way things were done classically about 8000 years ago . " Stratus has imported a total of three manufactured vessels -- two from Italy and one from France . One is made from a traditional terracotta-like clay , and the other two from sandstone and clay . Each one offers a different " permeability " for the amount of oxygen that can pass through , which affects the structure and flavours of the " breathing " wine inside . Ranging between $5,000 to $10,000 each , they 're not a cheap investment , especially when Stoyka really has no idea how the vessels will fare . " Wine has its own soul and its own identity and it does what it wants to do , " Stoyka said . Going back to traditional methods , he says , is more respectful of the fruit and wine . " How can we get wine that has the ? levage and the mouthfeel and aromatic complexity of an oak barrel without the oak impact ? " Stoyka wonders . The vessels may provide some ancient wisdom . The Cab Franc , now sealed away , is constantly circulating throughout the vessel thanks to kinetic energy built up from being flushed in and the vessel 's egg shape . Known for now as BL81 , the wine will remain there until next September when it will be tasted and compared to the same wine also being aged in the clay vessel , and oak barrels between three and 10 years-old . Evolution in winemaking , says Stoyka , happens at a " snail 's pace . " Winemakers get one crack at it each year -- it 's a constant cycle of " taste , evolve , taste , evolve , " he said . Now into their second season with the vessels , Stratus will soon be releasing their 2019 Chardonnay , the first release made partly with wine aged in the vessels . An " orange " wine , fermented with the grape skins , and presently aging in the terracotta-like vessel , will be bottled next March and released under Stratus ' " Trials " label . Last year 's Cab Franc was aged in the vessels for 10 months and now sits in " neutral " barrels waiting to be bottled next summer . Depending on how this year 's Cab Franc turns out , it could end up as its own Trials label release . But you 'll have to wait until at least 2022 to find out -- not so bad for an aging process that 's 8,000 years old . Jordan Snobelen , Local Journalism Initiative Reporter , Niagara this Week <p> EVERYONE wants to save money this Christmas ! It 's so easy to get wrapped up in the season that you get to December 26th and you 're completely out of money ! But that does n't have to happen to you ! With these Christmas tips , you can still have a GREAT Christmas without it hindering your journey toward financial freedom . Everyone should be striving to do Christmas on a budget , and these tips will help ! I hope you enjoy " 10 Ways to SAVE MONEY this Christmas ! ! " <p> The trial of former IWK Health Centre CEO Tracy Kitch appears destined to be delayed.Kitch , who is facing charges of fraud over $5,000 and breach of trust , was scheduled to begin her trial on Jan. 4 in Halifax provincial court.But efforts by her lawyers , and the lawyer for the Halifax hospital 's former chief financial officer , to get access to documents from the Nova Scotia auditor general 's office have not gone as expected.Earlier this month , as part of a third-party records application by defence lawyers , acting auditor general Terry Spicer testified about the office 's work on a performance audit of the hospital that was completed in 2018 . Unbeknownst to anyone before he took the stand , however , Spicer had recused himself from that audit because his wife works at the hospital . As a result , he had no useful information.Although a lawyer for the auditor general 's office initially said they would make people who did work on the audit available for questioning , they then said it would require a subpoena . They later indicated they would seek to quash those subpoenas.On Friday , James MacNeil , acting for the auditor general 's office , said it would likely be March before the Supreme Court of Nova Scotia could hear the application . Provincial court Judge Elizabeth Buckle asked MacNeil to try to get an earlier date based on the urgency of the situation.The parties are due back in court this week for an update.Jacqueline King , Kitch 's lawyer , called the situation " extremely unfortunate . " " We certainly did n't expect to have a witness that could n't answer any substantive questions about the audit , " she said in a telephone interview . " That , we did not see coming . " Police focused on $13,000King said she and Christie Hunter , the lawyer for former CFO Stephen D'Arcy , believe the documents they 're seeking are relevant and necessary to their respective cases.Kitch 's lawyers and Crown prosecutor Peter Dostal told Buckle on Friday that it would likely be too complicated to begin the trial before a ruling is made on the application by the auditor general 's office.Both expressed frustration about not being able to begin the trial as scheduled.Kitch and D'Arcy resigned from their posts in 2017 following an investigation into personal spending with corporate credit cards . A report by Grant Thornton showed Kitch charged the hospital $47,000 in personal expenses , all of which she paid back . Earlier this month in court , King referred to production orders by police that say their investigation focused on about $13,000 of those expenses.The delays have Kitch " very frustrated and very upset , " said King.The trial for D'Arcy , who faces charges of breach of trust , unauthorized use of a computer and mischief to data , is scheduled to begin next June . He paid back almost $17,000 in expenses before stepping down.MORE TOP STORIES <p> APSLEY -- More than $26,000 has been raised through an online campaign for Sayers Foods employees after the store was lost to a blaze on Dec. 5 . Established by independent grocers and wholesalers across the country , the campaign has a goal of $100,000 . Once $50,000 is raised for employees , any additional money will go toward the Sayers family for the redevelopment of their new grocery store . Several of the donations thus far have been made by other grocery stores and grocery store owners across the country . Summerhill Market in Toronto , Stong 's Market in Vancouver , Canoe Fresh Food Market in Muskoka and Cataldi Fresh Market in Woodbridge all donated $1,000 . " Wishing the Sayers family and staff the very best at this difficult time from one family-owned grocer to another , " said Gordon Dean , the owner of Mike Dean Local Grocer who also donated $1,000 . North Kawartha Township Mayor Carolyn Amyotte said " more than ever before , we 've seen our community come together to support each other as we respond to the Sayers Food fire . " " I want residents to know that we are working every day to understand and address the needs of our community as the situation evolves , " Amyotte stated a video posted to her Facebook page on Thursday . Amyotte stated she 'll be posting video updates every week to ensure everyone is aware of the resources available to access food and assistance until Sayers can be rebuilt . " I want to reiterate that these programs are here for you , so , please , use them if you need to , " she stated . " To our cottagers who have expressed an outpouring of support asking how you can help our community , please consider donating to Community Care so it can continue to provide these services to the residents of North Kawartha . " The Community Care Apsley office stepped up to provide free bus transportation to Bancroft on Tuesdays and Fridays for township residents who need to shop . Pickup locations are outside of the Community Care office in Apsley at 126 Burleigh St. and outside of the North Kawartha Community Centre at 340 McFadden Rd . Community Care 's Caremobile is also providing transportation to Bancroft or Lakefield every Wednesday at the same pickup locations . Volunteer drivers and shopping buddies are also available . For more information about resources or how to help , visit Community Care 's Facebook page at **38;355;TOOLONG Lentz , Local Journalism Initiative Reporter , The Peterborough Examiner <p> TORONTO -- Ontario will administer the province 's first COVID-19 vaccination today , with a health-care worker set to receive the dose in Toronto.Premier Doug Ford 's office has said the first shots will be administered at the University Health Network . The province received 6,000 doses of Pfizer 's COVID-19 vaccine on Sunday , and plans to give them to approximately 2,500 health-care workers in the first phase of its immunization plan.Ford 's office said the premier was on site in Hamilton as a plane carrying the first batches of the vaccine landed Sunday night . " The province has been preparing for this day for months and we are ready for the road ahead , " Ford 's office said in a statement Monday morning . " It 's time to start vaccinating Ontarians . It 's time to put an end to the COVID-19 pandemic . " Ontario will administer the shots a day earlier than expected , with the government saying last week it intended to begin vaccinating health care workers on Tuesday.Half the shots the province received will be administered this week and the other half will be intentionally held back to give the same individuals a required second dose 21 days later.Ford has said health-care workers , long-term care residents , and their caregivers will be among the first to receive the vaccine.Adults in Indigenous communities , residents of retirement homes , and recipients of chronic home health-care will also be priority groups.The province said it will be prioritizing the distribution of the vaccine in regions with the highest rates of COVID-19.The government has said , however , that the vaccine is n't expected to be more broadly available to the general public until April . Retired Gen. Rick Hillier , who is leading the province 's vaccine task force , says an additional 90,000 doses of the Pfizer vaccine are expected to arrive later this month.Those doses will be provided to 14 hospitals in COVID-19 hot spots.Hillier has said Ontario also expects to receive between 30,000 and 85,000 doses of the Moderna vaccine by the new year , pending its approval by Health Canada.The province expects to receive 2.4 million doses -- allowing it to vaccinate 1.2 million people -- during the first three months of 2021 . Hillier said the vaccine will be more broadly available to the public starting in April , during the second phase of the rollout , and it will take between six to nine months to distribute shots across the province . " People are going to have to be patient that their turn will come , " he said last week.The third and final phase of the plan would then see the vaccine available through places like pharmacies on a regular basis , he said . Hiller said the start of the vaccination program at Toronto 's University Health Network and the Ottawa Hospital will serve as a pilot that will help fine-tune the next step of the rollout.Ontario 's Solicitor General Sylvia Jones said on Friday that the hospitals receiving the first shots have made security arrangements to ensure the vaccine is safe from theft . " This vaccine is liquid gold , " she said . " We are getting a very limited supply , and we wanted to make sure that we had done our due diligence to ensure that the sites were ready ( and ) protected . " Ontario reported 1,940 new cases of COVID-19 on Monday , and 23 new deaths due to the virus.Health Minister Christine Elliott said 544 new cases were in Toronto , 390 in Peel Region , 191 cases in York Region , and 114 in Windsor-Essex.In total , 857 people are hospitalized in Ontario due to COVID-19 , including 244 in intensive care.The latest figures bring the total of COVID-19 cases in Ontario to 142,121 , with 3,972 deaths , and 121,563 cases resolved.This report by The Canadian Press was first published Dec. 14 , 2020 . Shawn Jeffords , The Canadian Press <p> With concert halls across Canada mostly closed due to COVID-19 , some musicians are celebrating the holiday season by offering ticketed streaming events.Here 's a look at some Christmas and New Year 's Eve shows , featuring Canadian talent , that will be available to stream:CHILLY GONZALESIt 's cold outside , but Montreal pop pianist Chilly Gonzales promises to bring the heat with his star-studded concert special " A Very Chilly Christmas , " filmed in an empty Parisian theatre . The musician says the show will be " a 2020 makeover to your favourite Christmas specials , " with appearances by Feist , Jarvis Cocker and others . Tickets for the show , which screens three times on Dec. 23 , are available through Moment House : https : **39;395;TOOLONG ... GOODVINAlberta country singer Aaron Goodvin rocks around the Christmas tree with his " Lonely Drummer Boy Holiday Show , " a 25-minute concert event recorded in Nashville . Goodvin will do a Zoom video chat with fans after the premiere on Dec. 15 . Tickets are on sale through Eventbrite : https : **39;436;TOOLONG ... TENORSCanada 's unabashed Christmas connoisseurs gather remotely for a yuletide celebration . Beamed from their homes in Vancouver , Toronto and West Dover , Vt. , the vocal trio perform a selection of festive songs , respond to fan questions previously sent via social media and partake in some silly holiday antics , including a costume gag they 're calling " Virtual Kris Kringle . " The pre-recorded show will be presented in two slightly different versions showing at 3 p.m . EST on Dec. 20 and 7 p.m . EST on Dec. 22 . Tickets are available through Sessions Live : https : **39;477;TOOLONG HURON CAROLEFundraiser and variety show the Huron Carole typically traverses the country throughout December to raise money for local food banks and social services . But this year the concert , organized by Saskatchewan actor and musician Tom Jackson , is going virtual with a taped showcase of independent artists including Tom McKillip , Darryl Havers , and Kirby Barber . The event rolls out by city until Dec. 20 , with the proceeds going to a local cause . For a list of dates and tickets visit the Huron Carole website : https : //huroncarole.ca/DWAYNE GRETZKYToronto 's industrious cover band is sending off 2020 with a bang that 'll be heard from coast-to-coast on New Year 's Eve . Starting at 10:15 p.m . EST and running until 3 a.m. , the curators of classic rock and Top 40 hits will pop the champagne on 2021 in each time zone . Fans can help chart the course for the night by voting for songs they want to hear Dwayne Gretzky perform live . Best of all , the show is streaming for free : https : **29;518;TOOLONG PETERS &amp; FRIENDSIf comedy is more your flavour , Russell Peters will bring together some of his stand-up buds , including Jason Collings , Crystal Marie Denha and Jimmy Shubert , for a New Year 's Eve pay-per-view event filled with laughs . Tickets are on sale through On Location Live : https : **39;549;TOOLONG ... @dfriend on TwitterThis report by The Canadian Press was first published Dec. 14 , 2020 . David Friend , The Canadian Press <p> CAIRO -- The U.S. Embassy in Khartoum said Monday that President Donald Trump 's administration has removed Sudan from the U.S. list of state sponsors of terrorism , a move that could help the African country get international loans to revive its battered economy and end its pariah status . According to a Facebook post by the embassy , Sudan 's removal was effective as of Monday . A notification to that effect , signed by U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo , would be published in the Federal Register , it said , adding that the 45-day congressional notification period has lapsed . " This achievement comes with numerous opportunities for Sudan 's development , " tweeted Sudanese Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok , adding that his country " officially " rejoined the international community as a " peaceful nation supporting global stability " after nearly three-decade of isolation . Pompeo said in a statement that the removal came after Sudan 's transitional government met " the statutory and policy criteria " and charted a " bold new course away from the legacy " of former autocratic President Omar al-Bashir . Delisting Sudan " represents a fundamental change in our bilateral relationship toward greater collaboration , " he said . Sudan is on a fragile transition to democracy following an uprising that led to the military 's ouster of al-Bashir in April 2019 . The county is now ruled by a joint military and civilian government that seeks better ties with Washington and the West . The removal of the terror designation opens the door for the transitional government to get international loans and aid and rescue its transition to democracy . Sudan 's economy has suffered from decades of U.S. sanctions and mismanagement under al-Bashir , who had ruled the country since a 1989 Islamist-backed military coup . Sudan today has more than $60 billion in foreign debt , and debt relief and access to foreign loans are widely seen as its gateway to economic recovery . Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said his agency would work with Congress and the transitional government in Khartoum to advance Sudan 's efforts to secure debt relief in 2021 . The European Union also welcomed the removal of Sudan from the terror list as a " significant milestone " for the country 's transition . Nabila Massrali , a spokesperson for the EU 's External Action Service , said the step moves Sudan closer to " an eventual debt relief " and urged the transitional government to continue the implementation of necessary economic reforms . The designation dates back to the 1990s , when Sudan briefly hosted al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden and other wanted militants . Sudan was also believed to have served as a pipeline for Iran to supply weapons to Palestinian militants in the Gaza Strip . Delisting Sudan is also a key incentive for the government in Khartoum to normalize relations with Israel . The two countries have agreed to have full diplomatic ties , making Sudan the third Arab state -- after the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain -- to move to normalize relations with Israel this year . After Sudan , Morocco also established diplomatic ties with Israel . Sudanese Gen. Abdel-Fattah Burhan , head of the ruling sovereign council , hailed the move as " historic decision " by Trump 's administration . He tweeted Monday that delisting Sudan would " contribute to supporting the democratic transition . " In October , Trump announced that he would remove Sudan from the list if it follows through on its pledge to pay $335 million to American terror victims and their families . Sudan has agreed to pay compensation for victims of the 1998 bombings of the U.S. Embassies in Kenya and Tanzania , attacks carried out by al-Qaida while bin Laden was living in Sudan . According to the October announcement , once the compensation money was deposited , Trump was to sign an order removing Sudan from the terrorism list on which it has languished under heavy American sanctions for 27 years . Since Trump 's announcement , the Sudanese government also inked an agreement with the U.S. that could effectively stop any future compensation claims being filed against the African country in U.S. courts . That deal restores in U.S. courts what is known as sovereign immunity to the Sudanese government . It would however enter into force after U.S. Congress passes legislation needed to implement the agreement . Khartoum has said the $335 million in compensation money would be held in an escrow account until then . Associated Press writer Matthew Lee in Washington contributed to this report . Samy Magdy , The Associated Press <p> With all road and infrastructure projects complete this year in the Muskoka Lakes Township , the public works team is focused on making its communities safe for all to navigate during the winter . Crews are out on heavy snow days maintaining roads to snowpack condition with plowing and applying winter sand and salt . JUST THE FACTS * The township is responsible for maintaining all roads in Muskoka Lakes except for Highways 118 West and 169 , which the District of Muskoka oversees . * The only road in Muskoka Lakes where crews spread salt is Peninsula Road ( District Road 7 ) . * Winter sanding is the alternative to salting on rural and residential roads , or used alongside salting . Sand provides traction control . * The township 's public works technician , Tim Sopkowe , says salt is used when the temperature is above -10 C. Below this , they switch to sand because salt is ineffective . * " We have only been out a few times so far this year , but everything has gone well , " Sopkowe wrote in an email . " We are fully mobilized and ready for winter . " Zahraa Hmood is a Local Journalism Initiative reporter covering the municipalities of Muskoka Lakes , Lake of Bays and Georgian Bay . Her reporting is funded by the Canadian government through its Local Journalism Initiative.Zahraa Hmood , Local Journalism Initiative Reporter , muskokaregion.com 
@@86417731 <p> Sarah and Steven remember seeing each other at an Operation Protective Edge protest at the end of 2014 . They made eye contact -- Sarah was leading the group and shouting slogans ; Steven , who volunteered to be the photographer , snapped an iconic picture of her making a megaphone with her hands . Then , in early 2015 , they both travelled to Brussels as part of a global protest against bombing in Gaza and the West Bank . They had mutual friends , and soon got talking when they ended up holding the same banner . It turned out that they had been involved in the same pro-Palestine groups for a while . After the protest , they continued speaking and hit it off . Two months later , they were married . <p> " I think it is a cute story because we were really not looking . We were just doing our thing , " says Sarah , 28 , five years after the couple first met . " Destiny , or whatever you believe in , brought us there together and that 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are an extremely successful example of " advodating " -- a trend that sees people date those who advocate for the same social and political causes as them . " It is dating people who are proactively involved in a cause you support beyond just armchair activism , " explains Dr. Max Blumberg , a relationships psychologist and researcher at Goldsmiths , University of London . <p> In the past year , 41 percent of millennial women and 48 percent of Generation Z women said that they identify as activists , according to a recent study from OkCupid . Despite the fact that young people have been finding love through activism for years -- including Kamala Harris ' parents , who met at a civil rights protest in the 1960s -- matching with a partner via a political cause is predicted to be one of the biggest dating trends of 2021 . <p> Advodating is Gen Z 's version of meeting at Woodstock , says Dr. Blumberg . " There was no way in the 60s that activists would have dated someone who was n't from the same group as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Gen Z are now , " he says . " You get so sucked into a cause that it is difficult to communicate with people who are n't part of it because activism affects everything you do in every part of your life . " <p> But what are the ethics of mixing political and social justice issues with dating ? Earlier this year , a Refinery29 article published by an anonymous writer who went on a first date to a Black Lives Matter march was criticised for insensitivity . The website later took down the piece , saying that the story was " shared in poor taste " . <p> Nana , 27 , from Chicago , says that she would n't feel comfortable going on a date to a protest because her focus would be on the cause . " I would n't be able to get to know the person because there is just so much going on at a protest , " she says . <p> At the Black Lives Matter protests earlier this year , ignited again after the death of George Floyd at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ You did n't know how the police were going to react , says Nana . " God forbid , but imagine if on your first date you watch your partner getting shot with rubber bullets , " she adds . " I just feel like it 's something to do after you 've known each other for a while at least . " <p> Polly , 23 , who is a member of Extinction Rebellion , agrees that protests should be something you do after getting to know someone fairly well . " I just ca n't think of any way in which a guy asking you out to go to a protest is not in some way a bit of self-promotion , " she says . " I 'd be wary if it came from someone on an online dating site , but I think if it 's someone you 're dating and it happens organically then it 's different . But stuff like that just feels to me like the next level up of the dog picture . " <p> For Polly , it all comes down to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a protest and meet there , I do n't see a problem with that , " she continues . " Bonding over a shared interest and activism is one thing where it is really important to have the same kind of values . But I think going to a protest for the sole purpose of trying to get a date is pretty shady . " <p> People 's opposition to advodating often stems from two issues , says Dr Blumberg : " They either think it is inappropriate due to the nature of the protest , or they think that if you 're being that proactive , you should n't really have time to be dating . " <p> But Elliott , 18 , thinks that protests can be " very romantic " as they allow you to connect with people . " I like that sort of connection with a group of people who all think similarly and are all there to be themselves and be proud of themselves and demand change , " he says . <p> After meeting his boyfriend Devon at a protest against a homophobic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an almost " instant connection " . Meeting someone at a protest is also a safe way to assume that the person shares your views on most issues , he suggests , adding : " It 's unlikely that you are going to go on a date with them and they turn out to be a Trump supporter . " <p> Sarah echoes this view , and thinks that meeting at a protest allowed her and Steven to get to know each other better . " You get to know a lot of information about someone . Not all the information you need , obviously , but a lot , " she says . " Equality and human rights are at the core of our relationship because it was literally built on that foundation . " <p> Some may find it distasteful to mix protesting with pleasure but ultimately , the ethics of advodating differ for each individual . Sarah might describe the way that she and Steven met as beautiful , but she also has a warning for anyone hoping to find a match this way . <p> " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just have your own story when it comes your way , " she says . 
@@52299199 <p> The federal government made it illegal yesterday for Canadians to assist the Palestinian group Hamas , naming it an outlawed terror group -- but sparked renewed criticism by failing to name another group , Hezbollah . <p> The move places Gaza-based Hamas , which has claimed responsibility for suicide bombings aimed at Jews in Israel , on a shortlist of organizations that are virtually banned in Canada , alongside the likes of al-Qaeda . While membership alone is not illegal , providing any material assistance carries a penalty of up to 10 years in jail . <p> After months of pressure to put Hamas and Hezbollah on the list of outlawed groups , Solicitor-General Wayne Easter announced that Hamas 's record of violent attacks against Jews in Israel has earned it a place on the list . He refused to explain why the Lebanese group Hezbollah was left off . <p> Story continues below advertisement <p> The federal government concluded that money donated to social charities operated by Hamas had " leaked to the terrorist apparatus " -- the fact that apparently distinguishes it from Hezbollah . <p> In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that while Hezbollah 's military wing is outlawed , Canadians can still finance or assist the group 's social wing , which conducts charitable activities . <p> But Mr. Easter would not repeat that reasoning yesterday , instead saying that additional groups will be added to the list of organizations named under Canada 's 2001 antiterror law . <p> " This is a very , very serious matter , being listed under Bill C-36 . They can have their assets seized and frozen and association with those groups is considered to be a crime , " Mr. Easter said . <p> " So it 's a very , very serious matter and it should be done delicately and with the full examination of the facts , " he said . " You can not , just based on some activities , do a knee-jerk reaction . " <p> Stockwell Day , the Canadian Alliance foreign affairs critic , said that the government was slow to list Hamas , taking 11 months since the antiterror bill was passed . He said recent attacks made it impossible for the Liberal government not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should have been added at the same time . <p> " It 's been 15 months since Sept. 11 , " Mr. Day said . " They should have been on the list now . We can only hope that the pressure will continue to build on the government and they will add Hezbollah to the list . " <p> Story continues below advertisement <p> Listing under the law means that anyone found to have financed or materially assisted Hamas can get up to 10 years in jail . In contrast , the penalties for being included on the larger United Nations ' **34;1906;TOOLONG list -- a list that includes Hezbollah 's military wing -- include freezing of a group 's assets . <p> Yesterday , five other Mideast-based groups were added to Canada 's list of outlawed terror groups , in addition to Hamas : Islamic Army of Aden , Harkat-ul-Mujahedeen , Asbat Al-Ansar , Palestinian Islamic Jihad , and Jaish-e-Mohammed . <p> Mr. Easter would not say whether Hamas has any activities in Canada , only that it is on the list because of its involvement in terrorism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is well-financed and organized . " Since 1990 , Hamas has been responsible for several hundred terrorist attacks against both civilian and military targets . <p> " Hamas has been one of the primary groups involved in suicide bombings aimed at Israelis in the course of the intifada uprisingthat started in September , 2000 , " the release said . <p> Mr. Day charged yesterday that the Liberals might be refusing to include Hezbollah for " political reasons " that he did not specify . <p> Story continues below advertisement <p> Mr. Easter said he was " shocked " by the allegation , and that it showed that Mr. Day was treating a serious matter lightly . <p> The U.S. government considers Hezbollah 's status as a terrorist group beyond doubt and has placed it on its own list of terrorist organizations . <p> U.S. deputy secretary of state Richard Armitage called the group the " A-team of terror . " <h> Your Globe <p> Build your personal news feed <p> Follow topics and authors relevant to your reading interests . <p> Check your Following feed daily , and never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ account menu at the top right corner of every page . <h> Follow the author of this article : <p> Due to technical reasons , we have temporarily removed commenting from our articles . We hope to have this fixed soon . Thank you for your patience . If you are looking to give feedback on our new site , please send it along to **25;1942;TOOLONG . If you want to write a letter to the editor , please forward to letters@globeandmail.com . <p> Welcome to The Globe and Mail 's comment community . This is a space where subscribers can engage with each other and Globe staff . Non-subscribers can read and sort comments but will not be able to engage with them in any way . Click here to subscribe . <p> Welcome to The Globe and Mail 's comment community . This is a space where subscribers can engage with each other and Globe staff . Non-subscribers can read and sort comments but will not be able to engage with them in any way . Click here to subscribe . 
@@52302021 <h> Factbox-Latest on worldwide spread of the coronavirus <p> Reuters <p> Published : Dec 14 at 6:59 a.m . <p> Updated : 8 hours ago <p> Sorry you must be at least 19 years of age to consume this content . <p> ( Reuters ) -Several European countries headed for stricter restrictions and new lockdowns as cases surged , while South Africa identified a new variant of the coronavirus , days after Britain said it had also found a new variant of the virus boosting cases . <p> DEATHS AND INFECTIONS * Eikon users , see COVID-19 : MacroVitals https : **39;352;TOOLONG ... for a case tracker and summary of news . <p> EUROPE <p> * France 's death toll topped 60,000 and Sweden introduced its toughest measures yet in the face of soaring infections , while Switzerland headed for a second lockdown . <p> * Austria will go into its third lockdown after Christmas and lift it earlier for people who get tested . <p> * General Practitioners in Britain have been given new guidance allowing them to use Pfizer Inc 's extra vaccine doses " at their discretion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investigation into the deaths of elderly nursing home residents during the pandemic as the government warned the nation was facing a possible third wave of infections . <p> * Russia began vaccinating its cosmonauts and staff at Star City , the Roscosmos space corporation said . <p> AMERICAS <p> * U.S. Vice President Mike Pence received his vaccine live on television , seeking to shore up public support for vaccinations as U.S. regulators were on the cusp of approving a second vaccine for emergency use . <p> * Mexico City and the neighboring State of Mexico are suspending nonessential activities due to a surge of infections and death that is quickly saturating hospitals . <p> * The COVAX alliance , which aims to secure fair access to vaccines for poor countries , said it now had agreements in place for nearly 2 billion doses . <p> * The U.S. Congress looked increasingly unlikely to meet a deadline to agree on $900 billion in fresh COVID-19 aid and instead may pass a third stopgap spending bill to keep the government from shutting down at midnight . <p> * Canada will donate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than necessary , Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said . <p> ASIA-PACIFIC <p> * India 's has enough capacity to produce COVID-19 vaccines for its needs and also export to other countries that need its help , Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said , after the government had said it could soon start voluntary inoculations . <p> * In South Korea , hundreds can not get into hospital as surging infections overload the health system , officials and media said . <p> MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA <p> * South Africa 's total reported cases surpassed 900,000 , just a fortnight after it reported crossing 800,000 , signaling a rapid rise in infections in the country battling a second wave . <p> * As Israel prepares to give vaccines to its citizens , Palestinians in the Israeli-occupied West Bank and Gaza are scrambling to secure their own doses . <p> MEDICAL DEVELOPMENTS <p> * U.S. Vice President Mike Pence said U.S. approval for Moderna Inc 's coronavirus vaccine could come within hours on Friday , after President Donald Trump tweeted that the vaccine had been approved . <p> ECONOMIC IMPACT <p> * Global @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highs as investors weighed hopes for a U.S. coronavirus relief package against moves by the U.S. government to add dozens of Chinese companies to a trade blacklist. nL1N2IY1B8MKTS/GLOB <p> * Brazil 's government may consider new economic measures to address the pandemic , depending on how it evolves , Economy Minister Paulo Guedes said . 
@@52311614 <h> Canada continues its support of Palestinian refugees <p> The Honourable Karina Gould , Minister of International Development , today announced Canada 's continued support of up to $90 million over 3 years for Palestinian refugees through the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East ( UNRWA ) . ( File photo : Karina Gould/Facebook ) <p> Providing humanitarian assistance and responding to the needs of Palestinian refugees is part of the path toward peace and prosperity in the Middle East . That is why Canada is committed to meeting the basic needs of the poorest and most vulnerable among this population . <p> The Honourable Karina Gould , Minister of International Development , today announced Canada 's continued support of up to $90 million over 3 years for Palestinian refugees through the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East ( UNRWA ) . This support will help respond to the rising needs of vulnerable Palestinian refugees in UNRWA 's 5 areas of operation ( the West Bank , Gaza , Syria , Lebanon and Jordan ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , health and livelihood needs of Palestinian refugees , especially women and children . It will also provide emergency life-saving assistance to an estimated 465,000 Palestinian refugees in Syria and Lebanon , through UNRWA 's Emergency Appeal for the Syria regional crisis . In addition , it will complement UNRWA 's response to the new and emerging needs created by the COVID-19 pandemic . <p> Canada 's funding will also reinforce UNRWA 's ongoing efforts to uphold UN values and humanitarian principles , including neutrality , within the agency and its operations . These efforts are essential to the effective delivery of its work and to Canada 's continued support . <p> Canada exercises enhanced due diligence for all humanitarian and development assistance funding for Palestinians . This work includes ongoing oversight , regular site visits , a systematic screening process and strong anti-terrorism provisions in funding agreements . <h> Quotes <p> " The needs of Palestinian refugees are undeniable , especially during a global pandemic : they face high rates of poverty , food insecurity and unemployment . Canada 's continued support for UNRWA builds upon Canada 's long-standing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ region . " <p> -- Karina Gould , Minister of International Development <h> Quick facts <p> Canada 's renewed commitment builds on its previous support for Palestinian refugees from 2016 though 2019 , as well as funding announced in April 2020 to support UNRWA 's response to COVID-19 . <p> UNRWA is mandated to provide services to Palestinian refugees located in the West Bank , Gaza , Syria , Lebanon and Jordan . <p> Canada 's multi-year funding commitment will contribute to addressing UNRWA 's funding shortfall and improve the predictability of the agency 's revenues , allowing it to plan how to meet current and expected needs . <p> In Syria , 91% of Palestinian refugee households live in absolute poverty . In Lebanon , over 89% of Palestinian refugees displaced from Syria are in critical need of sustained humanitarian assistance . 
