<h> Israel calls for easing of travel restrictions <p> JERUSALEM -- Following what officials described as a " dramatic " decrease in threat levels , Israel 's Ministry of Foreign Affairs ( MFA ) has appealed to foreign governments to consider " fine-tuning " their travel restrictions to the country . <p> " I am not saying ( that they ) immediately delete from scratch all the travel warnings . But we are appealing ... to all of our friends to at least fine-tune the travel warnings , " Aviv Ezra , MFA 's deputy director general for Asia and the Pacific , told journalists at a media briefing here earlier this week . <p> " I can prove it to all these countries that the level of threat has decreased dramatically ... The threat coming from the Gaza Strip is eliminated almost to zero . The threat coming from the north is also diminished in a dramatic manner , " he added . <p> Ezra said he understands countries that had to impose travel restrictions to Israel following Oct. 7 , 2023 , when militant group Hamas launched a coordinated attack from the Gaza Strip into southern Israel . <p> Over 1,000 were killed in the attack , including four Filipinos , with hundreds taken hostage . It prompted Israel to launch an offensive into Gaza , a response that is drawing criticism worldwide as the number of civilian casualties continues to rise . <p> In the north , where Israel shares a border with Lebanon , militant group Hezbollah also intensified its attacks into Israel , prompting further escalation of the decades-long conflict . <p> A 60-day ceasefire was recently agreed upon by Israel and Hezbollah , although there had been reports of violations from both sides . <p> Following the escalation of conflict in the region , the Philippine government placed Israel under Alert Level 2 , restricting non-essential travel and barring the deployment of new overseas Filipino workers ( OFWs ) into the country . <p> " Non-essential travels include tourism visits , pilgrimages , temporary stays with relatives and friends , volunteer work , sports events , entertainment and similar activities . These are discouraged now and could be considered at a later date , " the Philippine Department of Foreign Affairs said in an advisory in May . <p> " There is no new deployment of OFWs to Israel . Therefore , please be careful of offers by individuals , organizations , employers or tour companies organizing tour packages , visits and pilgrimages to , or recruiters promising employment in , restive countries in the Middle East region , " it added . <p> Ezra expressed optimism that 2025 will bring Israel " back to business , " adding that their government is making sure that foreign workers are safe . <p> " We were always concerned about their safety , and we have built certain mechanisms to make sure that their safety will endure even in the times when there are challenges , " he said . <p> " We have defined certain areas where foreign employees can not go , certainly in the northern front , " he said , referring to areas affected by the conflict with Hezbollah . <p> Despite the improved situation , he admitted that threats remain : " It 's not black and white , we are in the gray area , but the trend is positive . " <p> " From time to time , there is a missile that is being shot . But in terms of probability , if you walk in Manila at night , you can be attacked by a criminal in the same probability , " he said in response to a question by The STAR . <p> Missile attacks , he noted , are often intercepted by their defense systems and hardly cause any damage , especially in population centers outside the conflict areas . <p> " Because of the arrangements , the level of threat has diminished dramatically , drastically , " the Israeli foreign ministry official added . <p> There is an estimated 30,000 Filipinos in Israel , with only a handful requesting repatriation since the conflict flared in the region in 2023.
