<h> Palestinian right to self defense <p> Everything happening in Gaza is a response to decades of atrocities committed by Israel against Palestinians . Palestinians have an absolute right to defend themselves . Hamas ' counterattack against Israeli aggression and illegal occupation is proof that Muslims , if united , are capable of confronting any major force in the world . Muslim countries declare their full support for Hamas . The air is out of Israel 's balloon . <p> The real responsibility for the situation in Gaza lies with the UN and the international community . If Israel 's path had been blocked and the protection of the Muslim population had been ensured , the world would not be on the brink of destruction once again . International organisations are disrupting world peace by unlawfully supporting Israel . The United States , Europe , and the United Nations should abandon their indifference , partiality , anti-Muslim stance , and Zionism . The Palestinian issue should be resolved based on justice and truth . The government of Pakistan should take a clear and resolute stand on the situation in Gaza and call for an emergency meeting of the OIC @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ including in Israel . <p> It is the religious and moral responsibility of the Muslim Ummah to cooperate with its Muslim brothers . Israel 's history has shown that it prefers violent actions and often disregards peace agreements . After Hamas ' attack , the perception of Israel 's invincibility has been shattered . Alhamdulillah , many Palestinians have chosen the honour of martyrdom over the humiliation of defeat . No matter how cruel Israel is , Palestinians are not willing to give up their land and freedom . <p> The Islamic world must demonstrate faith and honour ; the liberation of the First Qibla is a debt on the shoulders of the Muslim Ummah . The intention to recognise the illegitimate state of Israel must be abandoned , and the unity of the Islamic world and the Ummah is the only path to honour and success . IMRAN UL HAQ , Lahore .
