<h> White House clarifies Biden 's claims on ' beheading children ' <p> US President Joe Biden 's remarks in which he claimed he had seen " confirmed pictures of terrorists beheading children " were based on media reports and on claims from Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's spokesperson , The Washington Post reported Wednesday . The newspaper cited a White House spokesperson who clarified that Biden and other US officials have not seen or independently confirmed that Hamas beheaded Israeli children . In his remarks addressing Jewish leaders at the White House on Wednesday , Biden said : " It is important for Americans to see what is happening . I have been doing this for a long time . I never thought that I would see and have confirmed pictures of terrorists beheading children . " The Israeli army 's spokesperson 's unit told Anadolu on Tuesday that the Israeli army has no information confirming allegations that " Hamas beheaded babies . " " We have seen the news , but we do not have any details or confirmation about that , " the spokesperson said . It was alleged that Hamas ' armed wing , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the Israeli side during the early Saturday morning attack it launched from Gaza . A Biden administration official clarified on Thursday that the president and administration have not seen pictures or verified reports of children beheaded by Hamas , CNN 's Donald Judd and Kayla Tausche reported . After Biden 's remarks on Wednesday , an administration official told CNN neither Biden nor the administration have seen pictures or confirmed reports of children or infants beheaded by Hamas . The official clarified that the president 's remarks were referring to public comments from media outlets and Israeli officials . <p> Tal Heinrich , a spokesperson for Netanyahu , said Wednesday that babies and toddlers were found " decapitated " in the Kfar Aza settlement , located less than 2 kilometers ( 1.2 miles ) from northeastern Gaza . <p> CNN could not independently verify that report and Hamas said media reports about attacking children were false .
