<h> Gaza -The beginning or the end ? <p> It is a Palestinian enclave of 365 square kilometres . It has been besieged for the past sixteen years . This enclave is one of the most densely populated areas in the world . With one of the highest unemployment rates in the world , its 2.4 million inhabitants needed special permission to cross into Egypt or Israel . This was the Gaza Strip before 7 October . After ten days of heavy bombardment by Israel , its intense density has turned into mild sparsity mainly due to the enlargement of graveyards.Far from the madding crowd , various government representatives are expressing ' grave concern ' over the ' alarming situation ' arising out of the world 's only ' open-air prison ' . On the margins , the discussion is focused mainly on five points . What are the ways and means to restrict the war only to the specified areas ? When should we intervene to put an end to this episode ? What if Hezbollah also joins hands with Hamas from Lebanon with its full might ? How should we convince the Palestinians to use the tunnel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to leave Gaza ? Once Gaza is renamed as the ' Tent City ' , how much funds would be required for the UNHCR ? The nearby tables are inviting everyone for a hot cup of coffee . Thousands of miles away , Imam-e-Ka'ba is offering prayers for the brave Palestinians ! ' We are at war , not an operation , not rounds but at war ' PM Benjamin Netanyahu declared soon after Hamas launched one of the deadliest attacks on Israel on 7 October . Later , his Defence Minister ordered a ' total siege ' on Gaza while his Army Chief expressed the Israeli Armed Forces ' complete readiness for a long-drawn war against Hamas . This time , it was not Israel but someone else who drew the first blood . Somehow , both the attacker and the attacked looked fully prepared.Amid an effort to finally decimate those who have ' no right to exist ' , the world may get ready to count the two-way losses till the time the powerful presses for a ceasefire . Looking at the pattern , one of the two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the ongoing war . Either Israel completes the circle of its ' satisfaction ' over this ' unprovoked terrorist attack ' and in the process , tries to crush the noisy ' grasshoppers ' permanently or the hapless Palestinians , somehow , gain a clear edge in the war miraculously.Those who wanted to see Israel out of ' isolation ' may forget about the deal being brokered by the US . Being the leading proponent of the Palestinian cause in the Muslim world , KSA could ill afford to make such a huge policy change now particularly in view of a full-fledged war going on in its backyard . A wait-and-see posture may be preferred over the possibility of establishing formal relations with Israel . As the deal still requires approval of the US Congress , Riyadh may get the benefit of the doubt if it desires to call off the deal for an indefinite period . Some reports suggest that KSA has already called off the deal . This might be Hamas 's only victory ! To safeguard their individual national interests , even the countries having a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jordan , and Qatar would also be cautious to extend all-out military support to the Islamic Resistance Movement , unless the war takes some dramatic turn . Serious concerns expressed by Tehran and Ankara indicate the possibility of a larger battleground . In any case , if it is a long-drawn war , as suggested by Israel , the Ummah may get ready to embrace a new look military hotspot in the Middle East.The material and military support offered by the US and England to assist Israel in achieving its ' strategic objectives ' has clearly suggested the possible fate of the war . China 's reaction to the war might prove crucial . With their ' no limit ' strategic alliance , China and Russia are likely to work behind the scenes particularly in view of their increased interest in the Middle East.The present-day Pakistan is in the process of putting its own house in order . The ongoing uncertain eco-political situation demanded a carefully calibrated response to the just-started war in the Middle East . Perhaps , the ' sentiments ' also needed to be separated from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pakistan 's not-so-cosy relations with the West . On the other hand , staying neutral as in the case of the Ukraine war was clearly not possible . Hence , Islamabad has strongly condemned the indiscriminate and disproportionate use of force by Israel while reiterating its principled stand on a two-state solution as the key to enduring peace in the Middle East . To this end , issuing any additional statements by the higher officials may be avoided . The more you speak , the more you make mistakes.The festering wound had the potential to become cancerous and then grow more deeply into nearby parts . The fact of the matter is that a whole population is facing imminent annihilation under the watchful eyes of the United Nations . Vested interests and principles won in the end . However , as an old saying goes --- you can kill a man , but you can not kill an idea . Only time will tell whether Palestine was an idea or a killing field . Meanwhile , Gaza needs steering . Not support . A sense of direction and not resolutions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ &amp; Prosperity <p> From October 17 to 18 , the third Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation will be held in Beijing under the theme " High-quality Belt and Road Cooperation : Together for Common Development and Prosperity " . Representatives from more than 140 countries and over 30 international organisations have confirmed their participation in the forum.On this forum , participants will review the valuable experience of the 10 years of joint construction of the Belt and Road , clarify the direction and key areas of cooperation in the next stage , and add new impetus to the realisation of the vision of common development of all countries.In March 2013 , Chinese President Xi Jinping proposed the vision of a global community with a shared future . In September and October of that year , he put forward the initiative to build a Silk Road Economic Belt and a 21st Century Maritime Silk Road ( This is the Belt and Road Initiative , BRI ) . After a decade of development , the BRI has effectively promoted economic integration and interconnected development and delivered benefits to all . It has laid down a pathway toward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in an age rife with turbulence and change.From 2013 to 2022 , the BRI established more than 3,000 cooperation projects and galvanised nearly USD 1 trillion of investment , creating an array of national landmarks , livelihood projects , and milestones of cooperation . The total value of China 's trade in goods with key Belt and Road partner countries grew at an average annual rate of 8.6 per cent , and the two-way investment exceeded USD 270 billion . Newly signed contracts of projects are worth over USD 1.2 trillion . The World Bank estimates that by 2030 , Belt and Road cooperation will bring an annual benefit of USD 1.6 trillion to the world , accounting for 1.3 per cent of the global GDP and injecting a strong impetus into global development.The BRI makes new contributions to people 's well-being . Over the past ten years , the BRI has helped lift nearly 40 million people out of poverty and created paths toward opportunity and prosperity for the local people . Many " small yet smart " livelihood programs such as schools , hospitals and stadiums have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more people are living a better life with a greater sense of happiness and benefit . Facing the global food crisis , China and its BRI partners have been actively engaged in agricultural cooperation and popularised hybrid rice , Juncao and other practical technologies , making positive contributions to ensuring food supply for the local people.The BRI opens new prospects for common prosperity . UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development is now encountering difficulties in its implementation , and the development gap keeps widening . Countries around the world have a stronger aspiration for development and cooperation . Many developing countries have seized the momentum of the BRI and got on board the express train of China 's development . As we accelerate the development of the health Silk Road , the digital Silk Road , the green Silk Road and the Silk Road of innovation , more opportunities for cooperation will be created . This will open broader prospects for industrial upgrading , energy transformation and innovative development in those countries.Talent is the most important asset that secures a bright future . Under the framework of Belt and Road @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activities and research cooperation . With the help of Luban Workshops , China has put in place vocational workshops in more than 20 countries to provide vocational and technical training for local young people , boosting the internal growth drivers of relevant countries.The China-Pakistan Economic Corridor ( CPEC ) is a pilot project of the BRI and a landmark project for China-Pakistan cooperation in the new era . Over the past decade , CPEC has brought $25.4 billion in direct investment to Pakistan , accumulated revenues of $17.55 billion , tax payments of $2.12 billion , created 236,000 job opportunities , and assisted Pakistan in adding 6,000 megawatts of electricity , 510 kilometres of highways , and 886 kilometres of the national grid.According to the latest figures of the State Bank of Pakistan , in the financial year of 2023 , Pakistan received USD 432.7 million of Foreign Direct Investment ( FDI ) from China , accounting for 30.09% of the total FDI coming to Pakistan . China continues to be the largest source of FDI in Pakistan . All these concrete cooperation have made significant contributions to promoting Pakistan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and deepening people-to-people affinity and regional connectivity between China and Pakistan.Looking into the future , China is ready to deepen trade and investment cooperation with Pakistan , build an " upgraded version " of CPEC which is growth-oriented , innovative , livelihood-enhancing , green and inclusive , propel China-Pakistan all-weather strategic cooperative partnership to new heights and make greater contributions to the peace and prosperity of both countries and the region .
