<h> Gaza under Attack <p> A wave of confusion and fear has gripped the besieged strip in the wake of yet another ultimatum by the Israeli army : move away or be prepared for more destruction , more ruin . Ordering 1.1 million people north of Wadi Gaza to vacate within 24 hours has already sparked criticism from humanitarian agencies like the UN as an " impossible " move . No matter how effective the propaganda mouthpieces may be , ordering such an unbelievably large number of people to uproot themselves , especially when there 's no evidence available of their links with militancy , would go down as the largest genocide trigger in modern history . Support for the Palestinian cause has always been sporadic . Other than hashtags on social media and politically motivated protest demonstrations , the Muslim world is still to take effective steps to validate its brotherly sentiments . <p> By making hundreds of Palestinians pay for the crimes of Hamas alone , Israel , under PM Benjamin Netanyahyu has unleashed hellfire upon a heavily-fortified strip ( often described as the most densely-populated open-air prison ) for the fifth time in less than two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has rendered any attempt to escape a trip into the fool 's paradise . The seemingly neverending deaths , strikes terrorizing the people , and heart-wrenching episodes of material destruction in an area that is hanging to its survival by a thread would trigger nothing beyond the mainsprings explaining the foundation and resilience of militancy . <p> The complex web is fast reaching out to regional players like Egypt , Iran and Saudi Arabia that are busy making phone calls and attending meetings . Meanwhile , UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres continues to sound the alarm : " We must avoid spillover of the conflict . " The need for diplomacy is getting stronger by the minute amid the cacophony of support messages and heated fracture lines . <p> While mediation can not be stressed enough , it can not happen at the expense of armless , peace-loving civilians . The people of Gaza do not have time to wait as they are killed inside their houses or asked to simply vanish in thin air . *
