<h> The Israel-Palestine War 2023 <p> The war that has flared up between the Hamas political leaders in the Palestinian Gaza Strip and Israel has led to a terrible political , economic , social , and humanitarian crisis . It is also a military and security crisis . Israel has occupied the Gaza Strip , the West Bank , East Jerusalem , and the Golan Heights since 1967 . When Hamas came to power in 2006 , having won the elections , Israel 's contact and cooperation with Gaza became very limited . Yet , Israel has not been able to control developments in the area through its occupation . Hamas ' terrible terrorist attack on Israel on the seventh of October could only happen because the occupiers had failed . The attack killed over 1400 people , including 260 in a massacre while attending a music festival . Over 200 Israelis and other nationals were taken as hostages . More attacks and retaliation have taken place , and more people have been killed on both sides.Israel has told people in the northern part of the tiny and overcrowded Gaza Strip , where Gaza City is situated , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of only five to twelve kilometres , before it begins its massive ground attacks . The United Nations and humanitarian aid organisations have said it is impossible for over one million people , almost half of Gaza 's total population , to evacuate and move in a few days , including people in hospitals , old people , children , and so on . Thus far , Israel has not begun its full operation , but it is likely that it will , knowing how brutal it can be , it continues with targeted attacks and has blocked supplies of electricity , petrol , water , food , and even medicines and other necessities . Shops in Gaza will run out of food in a matter of days . This week , a terrible explosion at a hospital in Gaza killed more than five hundred people , but Israel denies having been behind it , although not believed by anybody.The Palestinian Authority ( PA ) , based on the West Bank in Israel , a landlocked enclave to the northeast of the Gaza Strip , does not cooperate with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Abbas ( 87 ) is heading the PA . No full elections have taken place since 2006 . The living conditions for the Palestinians on the West Bank are better than in the Gaza Strip , but it is also not a sustainable and lasting land for the Palestinians , indeed not because Israel continues increasing its settlements there , but because of limited livelihoods and general conditions.The current crisis and war between Gaza and Israel have occurred because of the long Israeli occupation of Gaza , including a sea and land blockade , making living conditions and prospects for people in Gaza very grim and deeply unhappy . The Palestinians in Gaza rely to a major extent on international aid , and on supplies through the illegal underground tunnels to Egypt in the south . The tunnels were used for food , medicines , and other supplies , including weapons and ammunition , which made the current attack on Israel possible . It was a terrorist attack , but it was provoked and built up due to the long Israeli occupation.Historically , when Israel was created in 1948 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But that was just after WWII and the holocaust when six million Jews had been killed , and therefore the UK , USA , and the other winners of the war felt guilty about the terrible Nazi record , and they wanted the Jews to have their own homeland.However , the area where Israel was set up is as much a homeland of Palestinians as of Jews , some would say more so . There is no prospect of peace in the area unless an overdue two-state solution is implemented . Such a solution was proposed in the famous Oslo Peace Accords of 1993 , but not followed and hammered out in detail afterwards , but further meetings were held in the coming years.In many ways , the focus on talks and normalisation of relations between Israel and the Arab countries took away attention to the Israel-Palestine situation , and it contributed to the current crisis and war -- but we should all have seen it was bound to come . Even after the current crisis , the USA gives more sympathy and support to Israel than Gaza and Palestine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the USA , with the Secretary of State Antony Blinken having travelled in the region . Even US President Joe Biden came to its close ally Israel , focusing on closed-door talks with Israel 's PM Benjamin Netanyahu and others on humanitarian aid , and avoiding escalation and direct involvement of other states in the region in the war , and proxies.Israel is important to the USA , because there are as many Jews in USA as in Israel , and they are important voters in elections there , and they play a key role in business , media , and more . Also , many Christian voters in USA consider Israel special . There is less American and international support for the Palestinians , but many people show support and solidarity for the Palestinians , especially people on the left.Let me end my article by stating the prolonged crisis for the Palestinian people , the Israelis and all the people in the Middle East . Unless a two-state solution is implemented , there will be no peace for the two peoples and the region . The current war can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directly . It is indeed a shortcoming of the international community that the Israel-Palestine situation has not found a peaceful solution . It is 75 years since the Israeli state was created , alas ignoring the rightful needs of the Palestinian people . Again , a two-state solution is the only way towards lasting peace . @ @ China 's White Paper <p> China is the unique civilization on the planet that is the habitat of living beings , which speaks more about the survival of human civilization than its own civilization . The practical expression of which has been seen in the form of One Belt One Road and is now being benefited . Ten years ago President Xi Jinping propounded the idea of building a global community of shared future , answering a question raised by the world , by history , and by the times : " Where is humanity headed ? " His proposal lights the path forward as the world fumbles for solutions , and represents China 's contribution to global efforts to protect our shared home and create a better future of prosperity for all . In such a happy environment , there are some who are worried about the survival of human civilization instead of why the given model of China is achieving success . In my view , more important than discussing the actions of the opposing forces is the need to discuss China 's recently issued white paper , which respects the state 's borders and guarantees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ white paper was released by the State Council Information Office of China.The White Paper states that the Communist Party of China seeks not only the happiness of the Chinese people and the revival of the Chinese nation , but also the development of mankind and the great harmony of the world . China 's development can not be separated from the world and China is needed for the prosperity of the world . The Belt and Road Initiative is the regulatory platform for this white paper , whose achievements of ten years have been completed . The white paper was issued by the State Council Information Office of the People 's Republic of China , which has " Humanity at a Crossroads " as its number one priority.The Chinese government has published this white paper to introduce the theoretical base , practice and development of a global community of shared future . After reading the white paper , it is easy to conclude that the thinking of the Chinese leadership does not need borders . They want just as every citizen wants to see his home very peaceful , prosperous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also a home which all the states should make together to be the cradle of peace , progress , prosperity and freedom . Every issue related to life has been described in the white paper . After bringing its nation out of poverty and making it prosperous , China has actually presented the problems in the form of a white paper to the whole world and practical suggestions for their solution . For which China itself has set an precedent in the form of the Belt and Road Initiative for the past ten years.The white paper takes the past as a witness and marks two world wars , the consequences of which the world is suffering even today . Throughout history , peace and development have been the primary aspirations of humanity . Having experienced the ravages of wars and conflicts , people around the globe have built a keener awareness of cherishing peace , expanding cooperation , and seeking common development.The international community should work together to turn the grand blueprint into a roadmap , and a beautiful vision into reality step by step that the vision of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's wisdom in handling contemporary international relations from the perspective of world peace and development -- a Chinese plan for improving global governance , and a Chinese proposal to address various challenges in the 21st century . Vision guides action and direction determines the future . The international community should work together to turn the grand blueprint into a roadmap , and a beautiful vision into reality step by step.By July 2023 , more than three-quarters of countries in the world and over 30 international organisations had signed agreements on Belt and Road cooperation with China . China has successfully hosted the first Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation in 2017 and the second in 2019 , and will host the third this year , maximising synergy for advancing high-quality Belt and Road cooperation . Infrastructure connectivity continues to strengthen . A general connectivity framework consisting of six corridors , six routes , and multiple countries and ports is in place . The overall layout of land , sea , air and cyberspace connectivity continues to improve , centered on economic corridors such as the New Eurasian Land Bridge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the New International Land-Sea Trade Corridor and the information expressway , and underpinned by major railways , ports , and pipelines . Trade connectivity continues to increase . The whole world seems to be convinced by China 's actions and contributions . The Belt and Road Initiative has made the 21st century the target of prosperity for all states by stabilising economies instead of wars .
