<h> Rupee gains 79 paisas vs dollar <p> ISLAMABAD - Paki ? stani rupee on Monday wit ? nessed the 28th consecutive recovery session as it gained 79 paisas against the US dollar in the interbank trad ? ing and closed at Rs 276.83 against the previous day 's closing of Rs 277.62 . Howev ? er , according to the Forex As ? sociation of Pakistan ( FAP ) , the buying and selling rates of the dollar in the open mar ? ket stood at Rs 276 and Rs 278 respectively . The price of the Euro decreased by Rs 1.47 to close at Rs 291.61 against the last day 's closing of Rs 293.08 , according to the State Bank of Pakistan ( SBP ) . The Japanese Yen remained unchanged to close at Rs 1.85 , whereas a decrease of Rs 2.16 was witnessed in the exchange rate of the British Pound , which traded at Rs 337.03 as compared to the last closing of Rs 339.19 . The exchange rates of the Emir ? ates Dirham and the Saudi Riyal declined by 22 and 21 paisas to close at Rs 75.36 and Rs 73.80 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Asian markets drop as Middle East conflict worries grow <p> HONG KONG-Asian markets sank Monday on concerns that Israel 's expected ground offensive against Hamas in Gaza could spark a regional war involving Iran , with warnings that oil prices could surge , further complicating central banks ' efforts to tame inflation.After a week-long bombing campaign , Israel has amassed a huge army on the border with Gaza for what is expected to be a ground incursion aimed at flushing out militants after surprise attacks on October 7 that left hundreds dead.Tel Aviv has ordered more than a million Palestinians to evacuate the north of the territory , fuelling worries about a humanitarian crisis . While President Joe Biden has said Israel had the right to defend itself , he told CBS news program 60 Minutes that any move to occupy the Gaza Strip again would be a " big mistake " . However , reports said he was considering a trip to Israel after being invited in a phone call with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , while Secretary of State Antony Blinken is set to return Monday for the second visit since the Hamas attacks . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will turn regional if Iran -- which has been accused of helping stage this month 's attack -- becomes involved . " The key uncertainty is whether a ground operation risks widening the conflict , with markets focused on whether Iran and its allies are drawn into the conflict , " said National Australia Bank 's Tapas Strickland.Meanwhile , JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co boss Jamie Dimon warned Friday of the geopolitical crisis if the fighting widened . " This may be the most dangerous time the world has seen in decades , " he said in the bank 's third-quarter earnings statement . " The war in Ukraine compounded by last week 's attacks on Israel may have far-reaching impacts on energy and food markets , global trade , and geopolitical relationships . " The uncertainty weighed on Wall Street stocks , with the Nasdaq and S&amp;P 500 both dropping , while oil prices soared almost six percent.However , the Dow ended slightly higher thanks to strong earnings from JPMorgan , Citi and Wells Fargo that came on the back of elevated interest rates . Asia was in the red @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Seoul , Taipei , Wellington and Manila all down . Oil prices , however , dipped on profit-taking.Adding to the dour mood was news that the White House will tighten rules on Chinese access to chips and chip-making equipment , maintaining a long-running security standoff between the superpowers , despite moves to ease tensions.Traders will be keeping a close eye on speeches this week by several Federal Reserve decision-makers including boss Jerome Powell , hoping for some idea about their plans for rates . The talks come after a number of officials in recent weeks indicated they were happy to keep borrowing costs on hold , soothing concerns about more tightening that some observers fear could flip the US economy into recession .
