<h> Karachi police foil terror attack plot , seize 3,000 detonators <p> KARACHI-Police on Saturday foiled the plot to carry out a terror attack in Karachi when they arrested a man who had brought 3,000 detonators to the city from Hyderabad in a rickshaw.Police officials said that the man named Anwar son of Bahadur , who belonged to Swat , had brought the explosives for a terror attack in south of the port city . They informed that Anwar was transporting the explosives to a house in Baldia Town area of the city for the purpose of storage.The Force further said that so dangerous were the explosives that they could cause devastation on a large scale at any time . The rickshaw had been impounded , the officials elaborated . A team of bomb disposal squad was busy defusing the detonators till the filing of this report.Meanwhile , Caretaker Health Minister Sindh Dr. Saad Khalid Niaz strongly condemned Israel 's another threat to evacuate hospitals in Gaza on Saturday . Even in a war , hospitals , schools , and worship places are taken care of , Dr. Saad added . In a statement , he said thousands of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of them were children and women . Israel has reached such a level of cruelty and brutality that it is even targeting hospitals , the minister added.He said that by targeting hospitals , schools , worship places , and residential buildings , Israel is even seriously violating the laws of war . About 500 injured doctors and paramedical staff were martyred in the recent Israeli attack on Al Ahli Arab Hospital , while Israel has also stopped the supply of medicines and fuel to hospitals in hatred of Palestinians , due to which several hospitals in Gaza are already closed . He added that , on the other hand , most of the most important vaccinations and operations have been postponed . He said that despite the brutality , Israel 's threat to evacuate hospitals once again was very shameful and cruel.The world should take notice of Israel 's brutality and build pressure to refrain from targeting hospitals . He asked WHO , the Red Crescent , and other medical institutions and organizations to increase pressure on Israel to continue the supply of medicines and fuel to the hospitals in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ targeting of hospitals , schools , places of worship , and residential buildings . Islamic countries should also play a role in providing medicines , other medical equipment , and fuel to Gaza hospitals , Dr Khalid said .
