<p> KARACHI-The Russian Ambassador to Pakistan , Danila Ganich , has stated that Pakistan is a priority partner for Russia . He emphasized that Russia supports the resolution of the Kashmir issue through bilateral negotiations in accordance with United Nations resolutions . Ambassador Danila Ganich made these remarks during a dinner program hosted in his honor by the Karachi Council on Foreign Relations ( KCFR ) . The Russian Envoy also characterized Israel 's actions in Palestine as " revengeful terrorism carried out with impunity , with the support of the United States . " He further stated that while Hamas 's attack on Israel could be considered an act of aggression , responding to it with revengeful terrorism is not the solution . He added that it was a complex issue , and he expressed gratitude for Pakistan 's co-sponsorship of the Russian draft resolution in the UN Security Council , which aimed to establish a humanitarian ceasefire in Gaza . Both Russia and Pakistan worked together closely as brothers in presenting this resolution . He also emphasized that the situation in Gaza involves more than just counter-terrorism ; it entails acts of revenge and terror . Russia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He mentioned that while Pakistan was Russia 's priority partner , the level of trade was not as high as desired , even though both countries were working to strengthen their ties . He emphasized that Pakistan is a powerful country with a large population , a significant position in the Muslim Ummah , a de facto nuclear state status , and a society based on traditional values . The ambassador also pointed out that both Pakistan and Russia are champions of peace on the international stage . In response to another question , he explained the collaboration in the field of university education and how it could be further improved . He expressed the need to enhance direct interactions between universities , which have only recently begun . He stated that significant positive outcomes might not solely rely on states but could be achieved through private interactions between Russian and Pakistani universities , leading to stronger collaboration . Regarding the status of banking relationships and visas between the two countries , the Ambassador pointed out that Pakistan 's reliance on the US Dollar has hindered this relationship .
