<h> Iran warns Israel to stop war in Gaza or region will ' go out of control ' <p> TEHRAN-Iran 's Foreign Minister Hossein Amir-Abdollahian has warned Israel that the Middle East could spiral out of control if it does not stop strikes on Gaza . He said the US was also " to blame " for providing military support to Israel . Hours later , Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu warned troops his people were in a battle for their lives and said the war against Hamas was " do or die " . Iran supports both Hamas , which attacked Israel two weeks ago killing 1,400 people , and Lebanon 's Hezbollah . More than 4,600 Palestinians have been killed in the last two weeks in Gaza , according to the Hamas-run health ministry , and Israel announced on Saturday that it was intensifying air strikes . " I warn the US and its proxy Israel that if they do not immediately stop the crime against humanity and genocide in Gaza , anything is possible at any moment and the region will go out of control , " Mr Amir-Abdollahian said at a news conference in Tehran.He said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and " have far-reaching repercussions " , both regionally and for those advocating for war.The foreign minister added that US military support for Israel was evidence that the ongoing conflict in Gaza was " a proxy war carried out by Israel on behalf of the United States " . Top US officials are also warning the conflict could spread.US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin warned of the prospect of " significant escalation of attacks " on US troops or citizens . " If any group or any country is looking to widen this conflict and take advantage of this very unfortunate situation ... our advice is : do n't , " he said on the ABC network 's This Week programme . US Secretary of State Antony Blinken also mentioned a " likelihood of escalation " from Iranian proxies , such as Hezbollah or Hamas , and said the US was " taking every measure to make sure we can defend " Israelis and US citizens.Several Iraqi bases used by US-led coalition troops have been targeted in drone and rocket attacks in recent days.Also on Sunday , Mr Netanyahu paid a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lebanon , which has seen exchanges of fire with Hezbollah since the early days of the conflict . " We 're in a battle for our lives . A battle for our home , this is not an exaggeration , this is the war . It 's do or die - they need to die , " he said . He warned Hezbollah not to enter the war . " Hezbollah will be making the biggest mistake of their lives . And we will hit them with an unimaginable force . It will mean devastation for them and the state of Lebanon , " he said.For its part , Hezbollah has declared that it is " fully ready to fight against Israel " . At least 27 people have been reported killed in southern Lebanon during exchanges of fire between Israel and Hamas . At least five Israeli soldiers and one civilian have been killed in Israel , according to Israeli military reports . Israel has ordered dozens of northern communities to evacuate , adding 14 more on Sunday .
