<h> EU calls for ' corridors and pauses ' for Gaza aid <p> BRUSSELS-EU leaders on Thursday called for " humanitarian corridors and pauses " in Israel 's war with Hamas to get aid into Gaza , after hours of negotiations at a summit of the bloc in Brussels . The European Union has struggled for both unity and influence in the face of the crisis that has engulfed the Middle East since Hamas launched its bloody attack on Israel on October 7 . The surge in bloodshed has divided Europe 's attention at a time of rising doubts about the West 's ability to keep supporting Ukraine in its fight against Russia . After five hours of talks , the leaders called for " continued , rapid , safe and unhindered humanitarian access and aid to reach those in need through all necessary measures including humanitarian corridors and pauses for humanitarian needs " . They said the EU " will work closely with partners in the region to protect civilians , provide assistance and facilitate access to food , water , medical care , fuel and shelter " . European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen insisted early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Israel and , of course , acting on the need of humanitarian aid for the people of Gaza " after the leaders ' talks ended . The 27-nation bloc has long been split between more pro-Palestinian members such as Ireland and Spain , and staunch backers of Israel including Germany and Austria.There has been strong condemnation of the Hamas attack , which Israel says killed at least 1,400 people and resulted in more than 220 people being taken hostage . But there was less consensus on urging any halt to Israel 's retaliatory bombardment of Gaza , which the Hamas-run health ministry says has killed more than 7,000 people . The EU 's call fell short of the demands from the United Nations for a " ceasefire " , despite a last-ditch push from Spain to toughen the language.Germany and other strong supporters of Israel had sought to temper any wording that could be seen as tying Israel 's hand in going after Hamas . " All the fantasies of truces , ceasefires , etc. have the effect of strengthening Hamas in its determination to continue its action and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said ahead of the talks . The EU leaders said in their statement that they supported a Spanish proposal on " holding of an international peace conference soon " to discuss trying to find a lasting , two-state solution . The conference should be held within the next six months , Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez said before the talks began on Thursday .
