<h> Everlasting war or peace in the Middle East <p> There seems not to be any solution to the long Israel-Palestine conflict , currently it is a full war with hundreds of victims daily . Many thousands have died or have been injured since the recent crisis begun on the seventh of October this year . Most victims are civilians and about a third is children . The crisis had built up over years but the terrible terrorist attack by Gaza 's organisation Hamas came as a surprise , setting off a full war . There is no involvement of the Palestinian Authority ( PA ) ruling the West Bank , although that area is also occupied by Israel . More than 1400 people were killed in the seventh of October terrorist attack , many injured , and over two hundred hostages abducted . Now Israel carries out daily bombings in Gaza and it has warned of further revenge , including ground invasion of the Gaza City and elsewhere in the overcrowded Gaza territory in order to finish off Hamas . It can kill many Hamas leaders but the organisation or similar organisations will exist.It is likely that Israel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but it will not be able to finish it off entirely . Hamas also has assistance from other organisations and countries in the region , such as Lebanon , Iran and Qatar , and Hezbollah in Lebanon is an ally . The Islamic State ( IS ) is the original , ideologically related organisation . When we define Hamas as a radical , extremist organisation , which is true , we should also remember that the Palestine Liberation Organisation ( PLO ) was named a terrorist organisation for long , and still it has that designation by some countries and groups . In this article , there is no space to discuss these and many other historical and other issues in detail , including , inter alia , the role of the United Nations in the past and today.Last week , when I also wrote about the current Israel-Palestine War , I drew special attention to the Oslo Peace Accords of 1993 , where a two-state solution was proposed . Along with most observers , I believe that a two-state solution is the only solution for peace between the two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1948 when Israel became a Jewish state , although initially without borders . The Palestinians living in the area was not given its Arab state when the British Mandate over Palestine expired . That was a major mistake and deep injustice was done towards the Palestinians -- and it was also wrong for the Jews in Israel having suffered from constant unrest and conflict . Let us still remember , though , that about two million Palestinians live in Israel , many as citizens ; and other Arabs also live there.I do not know how the territorial issues of a two-state solution would be , and it seems nobody knows . The current Palestinian enclaves of Gaza and the West Bank , occupied by Israel since the 6-day War in 1967 , seem to be unrealistic and unsustainable entities for the Palestinians , and Israel is not likely ever to give up the land . The West Bank is in a somewhat better position than the tiny , overcrowded and embargoed Gaza Strip . Unless additional land is added , notably from neighbouring Egypt , sea access is allowed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is little or no prospect for a sustainable future for people on the Gaza Strip.The West Bank probably has a future , but again additional land would be needed , thus having some prospect of becoming a real state , but neighbouring Jordan would hardly be willing to cede more land , or even discuss the issue . The Golan Heights were taken from Syria . However , in our time , strict borders and absolute sovereignty over territory may be seen less important than before , or at least , there can be very close cooperation across borders , remembering , too , that Israel was to begin with an area without borders.In the Middle East , there is closeness between all people , with the Arabic language and Islam unifying people . There are possibilities for closer cooperation and also for sharing of resources , albeit not land , as it stands today . The Middle-East oil-era is coming to an end and that will lead to major changes in the region , and new approaches for livelihood , living and societal organisation will emerge.The ongoing Israel-Palestine War @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go and how it will end . But we know it will be terrible and devastating . It could also lead other countries in the region to become directly involved , and countries further away . Thus far , USA , UK and other Western states seem to have accepted that Israel will be allowed to implement massive military revenge operations against Hamas . The Palestinians have not been given similar support , but will receive humanitarian aid , and some countries internationally support Palestine , such as Russia , but its war in Ukraine is still not over . There is a risk for escalation of the Israel-Palestine war , even towards the traditional East-West blocks being manifested.Normally , I am optimistic , but this time it is more difficult to see peace and prosperity ahead for the Palestinians and also the Jews . However , what I think is not important , but unfortunately , I do n't see anyone else having clear solutions . Maybe we have to wait for those who are young today , in both Israel and Palestine , to do something entirely different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , there are solutions . We should pray to the only and universal God that we can see what that is . I believe in a two-state solution , but even that will be difficult to implement and sustain , hence , we must also consider alternatives -- using our mind , heart , emotion , religious belief , historical knowledge , and more .
