<h> Markets rise on tech bounce hope , inflation in focus <p> HONG KONG-Asian markets rose Friday after strong earnings from two tech titans provided hope for a bounce on Wall Street , while traders were also steeling themselves for key US inflation data . The gains come at the end of a rollercoaster week for equities , but the Middle East crisis continued to cast a shadow as Israel said ground forces had raided central Gaza for a second day.And while figures showed the US economy enjoyed its best growth since late 2021 during the third quarter , observers said there was a belief it had peaked and the new year would see a slowdown.However , questions remain over how long the Federal Reserve will keep interest rates at elevated levels . All three main indexes sank Thursday , with the Nasdaq again the worst performer owing to tech firms ' susceptibility to higher borrowing costs.But blockbuster earnings from Amazon and Intel after the markets closed -- and a surge in after-hours trade -- provided Asian traders with hope for a bounce in New York at the end of the week.Hong Kong , Tokyo , Shanghai , Mumbai @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well up.London , Paris and Frankfurt rose in the morning . Eyes now turn to the release later on Friday of the personal consumption expenditures ( PCE ) price index , which is the Fed 's preferred measure of inflation . A slight easing of the core reading -- released Thursday -- provided some optimism.The reading comes ahead of the bank 's policy decision next week , and while expectations are for it to pause , traders are hoping for guidance for the next few months.Officials have lined up in recent months to say that while there might not be any more cuts , rates could be kept at two-decade highs for an extended period . Still , with Treasury yields sitting around 16-year highs , experts do not foresee a recovery in markets any time soon . " The stock market is n't ready to rally until bond yields are sharply lower , which probably wo n't happen until we see inflation a lot closer to the Fed 's target , " said OANDA 's Edward Moya.And Stephen Innes at SPI Asset Management added that with the economy still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to bring yields down to four percent from close to five percent . " While markets are desperately trying to escape from this hurt locker squeezed on all sides by higher for longer interest rates , it 's unlikely a significant rates respite is on the cards with the US economy still firing on all cylinders , " he warned . " I guess the question is , can the economy slow down fast enough to move 10-year yields closer to four percent rather than five percent . " Oil prices rose , recovering much of their losses of more than two percent Thursday , as traders tracked developments in the Israel-Hamas war amid concerns it could draw in other countries . The drop came even after the Israeli military reported Friday more attacks by ground forces , which followed news that tanks and infantry had entered Gaza in a " targeted raid " before withdrawing to home soil . Aircraft also struck targets in Lebanon late Wednesday in retaliation for a missile launch . The fears of a region-wide conflict were stoked after Iran 's foreign minister warned the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spread . " I say frankly to the American statesmen and military forces who are now managing the genocide in Palestine , that we do not welcome the expansion and scope of the war in the region , " Hossein Amir-Abdollahian told an emergency United Nations General Assembly meeting . " But I warn if the genocide in Gaza continues , they will not be spared from this fire . " That came after President Joe Biden warned Iran 's supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei against strikes on US troops .
