<h> Armageddon Creeps On - PART-I <p> Theodore Herzl , the founder of Zionism , had described the area of the promised Jewish state or land to be " from the brook ( River Nile ) of Egypt to the Euphrates " ( Iraq ) . Oded Yinon , reputedly a former senior official with the Israeli Foreign Ministry and journalist for the Jerusalem Post , wrote an article in 1982 , " A Strategy for Israel in the 1980s " . The Association of Arab-American University Graduates found it to be a compelling article that gave out the Zionist strategy and vision for the ME.What Oded Yinon set down in the 1980s appears to have been more than prophetic as the ME/GMER seems to be evolving quite as he had envisaged and strategised ! Oded Yinon premised his strategy on two essential fundamentals ; one , Israel must become an imperial regional power and two , it must cause the division of the whole area into small states by the dissolution of all existing Arab states , ( a balkanization of its neighborhood ! ) . Consequently , he wrote , that the Zionist hope would be that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ source of moral legitimation . This implied that they were not planning for an Arab world but a world of Arab fragments ; creating " a mosaic of ethnic and confessional groupings , that would readily succumb to Israeli hegemony " . Every kind of inter-Arab confrontation , he thought , would be to the advantage of Israel . He further stated that the policy 's immediate aim ought to be the dissolution of the military capabilities of the Arab states East of Israel while the primary long-term goal should work towards the formation of unique areas defined in terms of ethno-national and religious identities.About North Africa he felt that Algeria and Morocco were quarrelling and too embroiled in domestic troubles . Militant Islam threatened Tunisia . An uncertain Muammar Qaddafi sought power in unification with Syria and Egypt . In later years , the US infamously " led from behind " as France and GB attacked Libya . Muammar Qaddafi was killed in the process . Sudan , a multiethnic country now stands divided into Northern and Southern Sudan.He laid out a blueprint for the ME/GMER too . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mistake which needed to be rectified . Israel 's aims , he suggested , ought to be the dismemberment of Egypt , to regain Sinai Peninsula and its fossil fuel riches and create a Christian Coptic state on its northern border . Yinon suggested that Israeli policy should aim at the " liquidation of Jordan as ruled by the Hashemite Kingdom ; and ensure Palestinian migration from the West Bank into eastern Jordan " . Ariel Sharon 's long-term strategy too aimed at the same objective . What he meant was that after the Hashemite Kingdom had been dissolved , the dense concentrations of Palestinians in the territories Israel had captured in the 1967 war would be pushed into the erstwhile Kingdom and space ( Lebensraum ? ) would be created for the Israelis between the River Jordan and the Mediterranean . That would keep the Arabs on the East of the River Jordan and the Israelis to the West of it.Iraq , with its enormous oil wealth , was considered as Israel 's primary threat . Here a Sunni minority was ruling over a Shiite majority . Yinon believed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Iraq whose dissolution ought to be the strategic aim of Israel . The US and its international Coalitions thereafter attacked Iraq twice , in 1990-91 and 2003 and devastated it beyond recognition , eventually ensuring Saddam Hussain 's death . Yinon had envisaged the emergence of three ethnic centers in Iraq - Shiites governing from Basra , Sunnis from Baghdad and the Kurds from Mosul . Syria was expected to implode too where a Shiite Alawi minority ( 12% ) was ruling the Sunni majority . He expected a Shiite Alawi state along its coast , a Sunni state in the Aleppo area , another mutually hostile Sunni state in Damascus and a Druze state in the Golan , Hauran and northern Jordan . Kuwait 's indigenous population , he said , was only 25 % of its total strength . Bahrain had a Sunni minority ruling over a Shiite majority . UAE , Oman and Yemen had large Sunni majorities . He noted that a sizeable part of the Saudi population comprised of Egyptians and Yemenites while the Saudis were in power although a minority.These were , amongst others @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highlighted could be exploited by Israel . A look at today 's ME reveals that Yonin 's plan seems to have been materialised to a very large extent . It appears to be a strategy still in progress . Today , Egypt and Jordan stand neutralised through peace deals and treaties , Syria , Iraq , Libya , Lebanon are largely destroyed through remorseless military offensives and stand generally divided and split up as envisaged . Palestinians are now reduced to the Gaza strip and some parts of the West Bank . Abraham Accords have got the UAE , Bahrain , Sudan and a couple of other Muslim countries to recognise Israel . They stand neutralised.Once the Gulf Arab states have been duly neutralised then perhaps the Armageddon will creep towards Iran and ominously further East of it too ! ( To be continued )
