@@31545482 <h> The Decade in Theater : Six Closing Thoughts <p> Trying to sort the last ten years into some kind of cycle , some sort of neatly designated Age , has been driving me loopy . Are there trends in our plays ? Sure . Does the theater hold a mirror up to nature ? Of course . Yet while nature herself shifts from the meandering Holocene into the smash-and-grab Anthropocene , some things are still so slow to change . Mountains still stand , and , hey , for comparison , here 's the last ten years of Tony-winners for Best Play : Red , War Horse , Clybourne Park , Vanya and Sonia and Masha and Spike , All the Way , The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time , The Humans , Oslo , Harry Potter , The Ferryman . A few powerful plays in that list , though it 's largely middlebrow guff . American theater tastemakers clearly love the imprimatur of tradition : Five are from Britain , and nine reach backwards , in source material or in concern . The Humans is the only one written about a contemporary group of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either history or art . And you can draw your own conclusions about how the filter for Broadway Snob Hit ( trademark : William Goldman ) seemed to select only for white men . <p> But if you look away from the awards podium , there was a sea change . Our theatrical decade was split in half , actually , with the last comforts of the 2000s dying and the age of austerity rising . One New York era faded ( of experimental collectives ) and another began ( the Influencer Playwright ) ; we lost and then regained our belief in documentary theater ; we dealt with major habitat degradation and resource-diversion ; and we 've suffered a crisis of confidence in theater 's purpose , which , based on our near-hysterical insistence on the " importance of stories , " you can tell is still at low ebb . A decade of macerating in social media has given us that **30;3565;TOOLONG sensation . But theater has been there , plugging along , reminding us how actual crowds function and think . <h> 1 . Let 's start @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and musicals , some of which vaulted over the low wall between the Theater and the Rest of the Culture . Sometimes , this happened for ... not good reasons . For instance , Spider-Man : Turn Off the Dark was such a disaster-vortex that it gave gifts that would feed some of us rubbernecking ghouls forever . In 2015 , Lin-Manuel Miranda and Hamilton were the ambassadors of a riotous , accessible , Shakespearean experience . The Broadway performance was still reserved to those who could afford its stratospheric prices ( which in turn changed things about the show itself ) , but the wider impact of Hamilton was a Renaissance for the form -- the re-cool-ing of theater , the free " Ham for Ham " outdoor performances , the reach of the score , the spread of some of the stars like Miranda and Daveed Diggs into cinema , the fusion of sounds from Broadway and hip-hop . No one has managed to imitate it yet , but perhaps its descendants are just offstage . You can , though , see the increasingly youthful and diverse audience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political gumption of seemingly unrelated pieces like A Strange Loop . <p> That flow between theatrical and popular culture kept some people paid : Playwrights went from making money in television in 2010 to making money in television in 2019 , though now they 're sometimes also showrunners . As television kept getting stronger at " thinking the long thought " -- once the purview of serious theater -- these writers came back to the stage to explore impulses too creepy ( Tom Bradshaw ) or language too dense ( Adam Rapp ) for TV . Wide-scoped culture writers who also wrote about film or television wrote truly important pieces of performance criticism . On stage , the drama took back some of its wild physical beauty , thanks to rising design-forward producer-venues like Ars Nova , which rocketed through the decade from strength to Broadway to big new Off Broadway space ; the now-powerful Park Avenue Armory , which brought glorious European spectacles that encouraged everyone to re-embrace ' 80s design maximalism ; and the once-scrappy Clubbed Thumb , which started transferring its most successful productions into longer runs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nonprofits followed Roundabout and Manhattan Theater Club into Broadway production . Second Stage bought the Helen Hayes Theater , which has been punching hard from its first season -- Lobby Hero , Straight White Men -- and New York Theatre Workshop , even without a theater , has become downtown 's most-represented uptown success , with many superpowered transferring productions , like Once , Hadestown , Slave Play , and more . <h> 2 . Then there 's all we lost . <p> The 2000s were brutal financially for the New York performance scene : first the massive granting organization Altria ( $7 million per year to local artists ) left town in 2007 , and then the financial crisis struck in 2008 . These body blows took a few years to hit the theater ; budgets kited along for a few years and then crashed in this decade . The 2010s were also poisonous for print theater journalism : By 2018 , the Times had given up on tri-state coverage , The Village Voice was dead , the Post and News had dumped their critics , other outlets were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wound seemed unacceptable at the time , but it 's hard to remember what 's missing once it 's gone . <p> We also lost a number of the theatrical collectives that had made the best art of the decade . Some still sort of exist but have lost their main constituent members ( Waterwell , Nature Theater of Oklahoma , Hoi Polloi ) ; some left the city ( Banana Bag &amp; Bodice , Theater of a Two-Headed Calf , Witness Relocation , Jay Scheib &amp; Co. , the Builder 's Association ) , some could n't sustain the costs of a repertory company ( the Pearl Theater ) . Those that have survived in place ( the Debate Society , Elevator Repair Service , the Mad Ones ) have been hanging on in the gale wind for the whole long ten years -- and no new theater collectives have risen to anything like their prominence in the latter half of the decade . The 13P project , in which thirteen playwrights banded together to produce work as their own artistic directors , deliberately ended in 2012 -- and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well-received gang has followed their blueprint . Even the unkillable heroes the Wooster Group had to raise funds via Kickstarter earlier this year : No group is safe . <p> As for the avant-garde and work from abroad , since the international circuit has faded and funding has dried up , we 've lost several important festivals like the glitter-fabulous dance festival American Realness , the January fests Other Voices and COIL , and the Lincoln Center Summer Festival . We lost the Off-Off hothouse P.S. 122 when it rebranded as Performance Space New York ( it produces just a few shows a year now , many of them talks or one-night-only showings ) , and the places that share the old 122 sensibility -- Abrons Arts Center and the Skirball Center at NYU -- have modest programming schedules , with weekend-long runs ( Skirball ) or short seasons ( Abrons ) . <p> Venues , though , are mostly replaceable . People who are not : Mar ? a Irene Forn ? s and Neil Simon and Ntozake Shange and Marin Mazzie and Hal Prince and Jan Maxwell and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Liz Swados and Marian Seldes and Fred Neumann . Still , the death of composer-lyricist Michael Friedman ( The Fortress of Solitude , Bloody Bloody Andrew Jackson , Gone Missing ) , an artist just entering the full stride of his genius , is , for me , the most painful bereavement of this decade . He was going to be one of the defining artists of the century ; his writing , already wildly inventive , was getting fiercer and deeper with every show . The sorrow of losing him as a person alternates with the fury of losing everything he was going to make . Michael told me once that he had a whole book of things to say about musical theater -- how it works , how it works on us -- but that he did n't want to write it down while Stephen Sondheim might still read it and disagree . That unwritten book still wakes me up in the middle of the night . <h> 3 . So what were the big middle-level institutions into this decade ? <p> Physical improvements ! Lots of places @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stage , which has turned its grotty old ex-stable into a very fancy ex-stable ; St. Ann 's Warehouse finally stopped ping-ponging around DUMBO and settled into an exquisite space in the old Tobacco Factory . Theater for a New Audience built its own handsome Polonsky Shakespeare Center in 2013 ; the Flea built a multi-story spot in the Financial District ; Brooklyn Academy of Music added the BAM Fisher to its suite of theaters , many of which got a full redesign in 2019 . When Branden Jacobs-Jenkins and Annie Baker -- theater 's biggest playwriting stars of the decade -- did a public talk at the Center for Fiction this year , they were asked what they saw as the biggest change for young playwrights . Both praised the flourishing of new microspaces inside larger institutions , particularly LCT3 ( completed in 2012 ) and the minuscule Roundabout Underground , which opened in 2007 . Certainly it 's been the place to find Roundabout 's best stuff , like Bad Jews and Usual Girls . Fewer daily critics meant less critical attention paid to other stand-alone small spaces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bringing that level of programming " in house " put many playwrights in the public view who might otherwise have been missed downtown . <p> Every New York story is a real estate story , and New York is always in a struggle for her soul . She 's so desperate to be pretty , to be world-class , to have shiny elevated parks and glitzy mall-slash-housing complexes , and she uses art as a way to claim that these luxuries are actually for everybody . But are they ? Two grand openings from 2012 reveal the warring impulses of all this renovation and expansion . 1 ) Jim Houghton ( now also much-missed ) opened the Pershing Square Signature Center , home to the Signature Theater , a sprawling , no-frills concrete caf ? and bookshop with dozens of tables free for work and meetings , occasional zero-cost live music , and subsidized , low ticket prices . 2 ) The Public Theater 's glowing new makeover , still lovely seven years later , features a gorgeous lobby with difficult-to-spot seating upstairs , a luxe and expensive second-floor bar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and no apparent ticket initiative . I 'm torn . On the one hand , the gilding of workaday venues to comfort rich patrons is galling , but also it was ever thus -- the wealthy have been underwriting theater since Pericles . Both places are crucial in our theatrical ecology , and I would never wish the Public ill . But ... what sort of theater bar is it where the actors ca n't afford a drink ? What message does that send ? <h> 4 . When people gather to talk theater , they spend 10 percent of their time on the art and 90 percent on the gossip . <p> The scandal that defined New York theater in the 2000 's was the 2006 My Name Is Rachel Corrie dust-up , when New York Theatre Workshop pulled its production ( about a woman who died under Israeli bulldozers in Gaza ) after pressure from Jewish groups . So many things about that mess are purely 2000s-specific -- it was largely discussed in the New York theater blogosphere , for instance , which no longer exists . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people signed a petition to take down Jeremy O. Harris 's Slave Play last year , the Workshop already knew what it felt like to cancel a hot-button drama -- and it was n't interested . Instead , Slave Play moved to Broadway , Harris invented both the Black Out and ticketing-as-reparations ( patrons can pay it forward by sponsoring a less wealthy person 's ticket ) , and Rihanna showed up . New controversy has only fed the show 's legend , with fights reported in the audience and a furious talkback comment going viral on Twitter , and now Harris is a late-night-TV sensation and literal cover model for Out magazine . <p> Harris simply ... refused to be canceled . This doubling-down in the face of public embarrassment also worked for MacArthur fellow Brendan Jacobs-Jenkins , whose turbulent decade began with a truly bizarre scandal in which an actor in one of his shows e-mailed out some insults about it , which were then picked up as a kind of news story by the Voice . Jacobs-Jenkins went to Berlin and was prepared never to come back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ talk . But Sarah Benson at Soho Rep pestered him for the play ; he rewrote it ; and that version of An Octoroon went to the moon . An Octoroon might well have been the finest play of the decade , but I 'm not willing to make all the plays fight . <p> I 'm such a weenie about listening to fights , in fact , that I 've only ever skipped through the audio of the signature 2010s scandal : Ira Glass retracting a 2012 episode of This American Life that had featured selections from Mike Daisey 's The Agony and the Ecstasy of Steve Jobs . Glass was furious that Daisey 's show had contained dramatic elisions and fictional elements when Glass had believed it was fact-checked journalism , and he asks Daisey point-blank in this episode about whether or not the showman had been deliberately misleading . The excruciating ... pauses ... in that piece of radio are my idea of hell . It 's rare that a controversy about a show in New York gets so much national attention , and once it went @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We never really reasoned our collective way through it . Daisey was wounded , both apologizing and insisting that he had the right in a theater to make a piece of theater ( a place where lies stand for truth all the time ) ; Glass was wounded because his own credibility was on the line ; the audience was wounded , since they 'd been made to feel foolish for assuming that Daisey 's confessional man-at-a-desk delivery meant that the details were accurate . And the political purpose of the show , to expose the human cost of Apple products made in killing conditions in China , was swamped completely -- outrage at Daisey , rather conveniently , let everybody stop worrying about child workers and keep their iPhones . <p> It was this diverted purpose , really , whatever the ethics of the situation , that seemed to have a chilling effect . Would there have been more documentary-style theater in the 2010s without this debacle ? Would audiences have listened to the verit ? performances they did hear -- Anna Deavere Smith 's Notes From the Field @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? You ca n't prove a negative ; I ca n't show what 's not there . <p> But two major pieces of political theater of the late 2010s did respond , either consciously or not , to the Daisey chain of events.Aleshea Harris 's What to Send Up When It Goes Down asks audiences to meditate on the black person most recently killed by police as they participate in her play/ritual -- the fact that she does n't have to tell us a name because there is always a new one lies like a stone on our hearts . Harris refuses to be precise , and thus she 's always truthful . At the other extreme , we have Tina Satter 's Is This A Room , the stunning production that closed out the decade at the Vineyard Theater . Taken verbatim from an FBI transcript , the play lets us listen to three officers confront the NSA contractor Reality Winner in her own front yard ; we watch in real time as she realizes that she 's been caught leaking a classified document about Russian hacking . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , you know , the big one that squats in the center of our body politic. <h> 5 . Theater is " conversation at a distance . " Theater is " thinking in public . " So what happened to conversation and thinking ? <p> Well , the 2010s have been the **45;3597;TOOLONG ... decade ( I got mine late ) , which is another way of saying we all moved into the New Dark Age . The human brain tends to deal with too much information in the same way that it deals with too little information -- it sorts it all into " useless " and turns , in desperation , to superstition . The more we learn , the more we 're sure that the greater part of the truth is hidden . <p> So we become conspiracy fans and Serial addicts , and , in the theater , we steered increasingly into the Weird . I 've seen two plays in the last two months about young women joining witchy covens ; my favorite show of the decade , Sasquatch Rituals , looked with seriousness at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a crystal healing workshop . ( " They 're like the jewels of the earth , " our workshop leader said both accurately and hilariously . ) We believe everything all at once ; we hear mysterious rumblings under the earth ; we wonder what we 've summoned out of the deep . Anne Washburn , the playwright who broke through into national consciousness with her Mr. Burns , a Post-Electric Play , started the decade with a one-act called The Small , a brilliant bijou about someone discovering an uncanny object in an organic grocery store , which oozes slightly and might bring down the whole order of things . I think of it often . <p> Telephone brain also made us need to engage with attention as a vanishing resource . Some shows got extremely brief -- Constellations on Broadway was so short I 'm still irritated about it . I am going to need you to stretch to more than 70 minutes , guys . But then there 's the show that was this decade 's patron saint , not least because it kept showing up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Service show Gatz , in which an office grunt ( Scott Shepherd ) reads out the entirety of The Great Gatsby as an ensemble acts it out around him , arrived at the Public Theater in 2010 , and then went on tour , and then came back to the Public in 2012 , and then went again on tour , and then returned to the Skirball Center in 2019 . The show has basically occupied the city for the entire ten years . If the 2010s theater has a flag , it 's probably a tatty blue button-down . <p> Purely aesthetically , Gatz is a hell of a show -- the writing 's pretty good , you know -- but it has been more that that . The alchemy of marathon production turns into the cure for our decaying ability to focus . Every time I thought , this time information overload has broken me , I do n't know how to pay attention any more , the show arrived again , a boat pushing against modernity 's current . In its fundamental nature , it demonstrates the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steady for long enough that our own attention heals . I hope it comes back forever . <h> 6 . The arc of the 2010s was characterized by a growing sense of fearfulness and powerlessness . <p> The decade was , for many in the theater , a great surging hope broken in the middle by a terrifying disappointment . The " discourse , " which is a term that has come to mean almost nothing yet makes everybody anxious , is both loud and disconnected from how the country actually makes its decisions . <p> There 's a question that we 're all asking ourselves , all the time . Is theater pointless ? Tony Kushner 's A Bright Room Called Day ( his 1985 first play , rewritten and revived this year at the Public ) is an extended meditation on how creativity can counter fascism , and he comes up with zero , bupkus , the big goose egg . Michael Chabon quit his position at the MacDowell colony with an inarguable essay about realizing art does n't actually make a difference in a burning world . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? <p> So , these days , I 'm taking spirit from The Undercommons by Fred Moten and Stefano Harney . Yep ! A book of essays about , among other things , how black academics can decolonize the university makes me think that the theater might be worth a little something after all . <p> In their writing , Moten and Harney reject immiseration . They reject defeat . Above all , they call for study as a means of revolution . Prepare for what will come , they say , so that we can be " embedded in the with and the for " of the revolution rather than in the institutions that restrict us . Most of society is dedicated to fitting us to purpose : Work and school grind us into the proper shapes for further grinding . But study can set the mind free from these old forms and tyrannies . Study can teach us how to jam the machines . Even further , Moten and Harney ask us to seek out wilderness that is n't simply " left over space " but rather a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Now -- that sounds familiar . <p> The theater is a kind of wilderness . No one owns it . It 's hard to make money on it , so you can get pretty far in without seeing any big developments . People have always seen theater people as destabilizing outsiders -- actors were once buried outside churchyards and sometimes , like vampires , at crossroads . The mind in a theater seat is at its most free and ungoverned ; the rules that are supposed to moderate normal life are n't useful there . Theater is n't tactful , is n't honest , is n't right , is n't a map to a better world , is n't well-planned , is n't fair and balanced , is n't a good campaign strategy , is n't careful , is n't kind . It does n't stand up to examination . It does n't offer a step-by-step . It does n't reveal its sources . <p> What if we thought of theater as big wilderness corridors , cutting through all the polite , useful , domesticated stuff that makes up most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people what not to do in the theater ? What if we just abandoned all talk of how silly it is to spend time there instead of at a protest ? Ecologically , we already know that we need wilderness so the world can breathe . Purposelessness is itself a kind of sacred purpose . A theater is a place for chaos , thievery , destruction , misrule , recklessness , imagination , adventure , courage , provocation , and possibility . Throw your MFAs into a bonfire ! Forget the rules ! The wilderness has always been the place for wild beasts -- but also hermits on their pillars . Do n't despair if you do n't find an obvious mission there . Go back into the wild . It 's where saints go to study . 
@@31547983 <p> WASHINGTON ( JTA ) -- A U.S. airstrike killed Qassem Soleimani , the head of the Quds Force , which operates a number of regional militias and is allied with terrorist groups targeting Israel , including Hezbollah and Hamas . <p> The strike early Friday morning hit a vehicle near Baghdad International Airport . The Quds Force arms and funds a number of militias in Iraq . <p> " General Soleimani was actively developing plans to attack American diplomats and service members in Iraq and throughout the region , " the Pentagon statement said . " General Soleimani and his Quds Force were responsible for the deaths of hundreds of American and coalition service members and the wounding of thousands more . " <p> The Trump administration blamed Iran for recent escalations , including the recent besieging of the U.S. embassy in Baghdad by sympathizers with Iran and its proxies . President Donald Trump tweeted an image of the U.S. flag after reports of Soleimani 's death first emerged . <p> The strike is likely to escalate U.S.-Iran tensions in the region and could draw in Israel . Soleimani has for years been behind Iranian backed actions in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lengthy interview on Iranian television that he helped direct Hezbollah 's war on Israel in 2006 . <p> Hezbollah is a terrorist militia in Lebanon . Hamas is the terrorist organization governing the Gaza Strip . <p> Soleimani , 62 , supervised Iran 's operations in Syria during the civil war that has raged in that country since 2011 . Iran helped prop up the Assad regime , which is emerging triumphant in the war . Israel is seeking the ouster of Iran from Syria as part of permanent post-civil war status . <p> By signing up , you agree to our terms You hereby accept the Jewish Week Terms of Use and Privacy Policy , and you agree to receive the latest news &amp; offers from the Jewish Week and its partners or ad sponsors . 
@@31553783 <p> Soleimani was , in many ways , the irreplaceable man . Known as a charismatic leader -- indeed , the only charismatic leader in Iran 's military today -- he has no parallel among contemporary Iranian commanders . <p> Wherever Iran has sent its expeditionary Quds Force to war -- in Lebanon , Syria , Iraq , Afghanistan and Yemen -- there you would find Soleimani . <p> During the early years of the US occupation of Iraq , he became the puppet master of successive Iraqi governments . Not only did he select presidents and prime ministers , but over the years he placed his minions in key positions in every Iraqi government ministry where they controlled personnel and finance decisions . <p> He also set up a far-flung financial empire , reportedly taking a percentage of the float on all foreign currency exchange from Iraqi banks , netting close to $1 billion per month in black money to finance his terror empire . <p> While he was serving as Barack Obama 's CIA director , Gen. David Petraeus liked to tell a story about a text message he received from Soleimani at the peak of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Qassim Soleimani , people throughout Iran and the city of Rasht mourned him on the streets.ZUMA24.com <p> " Dear General Petraeus , you should know that I , Qassim Soleimani , control the policy for Iran with respect to Iraq , Lebanon , Gaza and Afghanistan . And indeed , the ambassador in Baghdad is a Quds Force member . The individual who 's going to replace him is a Quds Force member . " <p> Staff Sergeant Robert Bartlett was one of several thousand US soldiers wounded by " explosively made penetrators , " a particularly deadly form of IED , in Iraq . They were designed to kill American troops , and were built and shipped to Iraqi terror groups by Soleimani . In just a two-year period , from 2005-2007 , they claimed the lives of an estimated 600 US servicemen in Iraq , according to the Department of Defense . <p> The force of the projectile " cut me in half from the left corner of my temple down to my jaw , and took my gunner 's legs off . Because of this Iranian bomb @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my faith kept me alive , " Sgt. Bartlett told me in a videotaped interview . The US never retaliated for these attacks . <p> In 2011 , Soleimani and his men recruited a down-and-out drug dealer named Manssor Arbabsiar , to try to assassinate then-Saudi ambassador to Washington , DC , Adel al-Jubeir , who had angered the Iranian regime by publicly calling out their terror ties . <p> According to federal court documents , Arbabsiar traveled repeatedly to Tehran to meet with an associate of Soleimani 's to receive orders and money and ultimately recruited a Mexican drug dealer to carry out the barbarous plot the Iranians proposed : to kill al-Jubeir while he was lunching at the upscale restaurant at the Watergate Hotel . <p> If successful , the bombing could have killed more than a hundred people in the heart of the US capitol , but Soleimani reportedly was n't worried about the collateral damage . As I wrote at the time , the only reason the plot failed was very good luck ( as far as the FBI was concerned ) . Arbabsiar chose the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ happened to be an informant for the Drug Enforcement Administration . <p> In recent years , Soleimani has traveled repeatedly to Syria to supervise the construction of a network of military and intelligence bases Iran planned to use to expand its presence on Israel 's borders . Israeli fighter jets reportedly narrowly missed him during a 2015 strike on an Iranian base in Aleppo province . Shortly after that attack , he told an Iranian Internet news service , " Martyrdom is what I seek in mountains and valleys but is n't granted yet . " <p> Former Iranian intelligence officers told me about Soleimani 's direct involvement in planning , financing and directing the Sept. 11 , 2012 , attacks on US diplomatic and intelligence facilities in Benghazi , Libya , where four Americans were killed . <p> At the time , writing in these pages , I called him the " Wizard of Oz of Iranian terror . " <p> His goals in attacking us in Benghazi were to shut down the US arms pipeline from that city to the anti-regime jihadi groups in Syria and ultimately to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of which he accomplished . <p> His many brushes with death and his outrageous terror rap sheet , which is longer than bin Laden 's , led Soleimani and his supporters to consider him invincible . His demise at the hands of US forces on Thursday not only shows that is not the case but that the aura of invincibility of the regime itself is over . <p> I believe the Iranian people will draw the obvious conclusion that this once powerful regime has feet of clay . Expect bigger anti-regime protests inside Iran in the coming weeks and popular revolts against Iranian interference in Lebanon and Iraq as well . <p> To me , the biggest question remains : Is President Trump ready for the revolution he has unleashed ? With this single act , the United States has set in motion big historical forces for positive change . We must be prepared to help the forces of freedom against tyranny and oppression . 
@@31558576 <p> Last fall , to celebrate the seventieth birthday of the People 's Republic of China , the government planned the largest military parade and " mass pageant " in Beijing 's history . On October 1st , more than a hundred thousand performers and soldiers mustered downtown , forming waves of color that stretched from voguish skyscrapers in the east to the squat pavilions of the Forbidden City . <p> At ten o'clock , artillery blasted a fifty-six-gun salute , as President Xi Jinping watched from a high balcony overlooking Tiananmen Square , known to the outside world as the site of a student-led uprising that was crushed in 1989 . ( In China 's official history , the movement and the crackdown have been reduced to a footnote . ) Xi is sixty-six years old , with a full , reddish face , neatly combed hair , and an expression of patient immovability . Since taking office , in 2012 , he has redoubled political repression and suspended term limits on the Presidency , so he will run the country for as long as he chooses . For this occasion , instead of his usual Western attire , he wore a black Mao suit . " On this spot , seventy years ago , Comrade Mao Zedong solemnly declared to the world the establishment of the People 's Republic of China , " he said . " That great event thoroughly transformed China 's tragic fate , ending more than a century of poverty , weakness , and bullying . " <p> Whenever Chinese leaders stage a public spectacle , it provides a chance to assess their self-portrait . In 2008 , when Beijing hosted the Olympics , the opening ceremony celebrated Confucius and ignored Mao ; the organizers wanted to project confidence but not brashness , a posture that China described as " Hide your strength and bide your time . " Eleven years later , China no longer hides the swagger . On the balcony , to Xi 's right , was the politburo 's reigning propagandist , Wang Huning , a former professor who once travelled the United States and honed a prickly theory about dealing with its people . " The Americans pay attention to strength , " he wrote , after attending a football game at the Naval Academy . " Football has some strategy , but it 's not elegant ; mainly , it relies on strength . " He added , " The Americans apply that spirit to many fields , including the military , politics , and the economy . " <p> In the stands around Xi , uniformed volunteers demonstrated the optimal technique for waving a miniature flag -- short , vigorous strokes -- and stressed the value of a friendly " countenance " for the camera . But nobody needed much coaching ; for many in the crowd , this was a day of unaffected pride in China 's new wealth and power . When I started studying Mandarin , twenty-five years ago , China 's economy was smaller than Italy 's . It is now twenty-four times the size it was then , ranking second only to America 's , and the share of Chinese people in extreme poverty has shrunk to less than one per cent . Growth has slowed sharply , but the country still has legions of citizens vying to enter the middle class . It is estimated that a billion Chinese people have yet to board an airplane . <p> Xi 's speech gave no acknowledgment of the headlines -- China 's heavily criticized internment of Muslims in Xinjiang , protests in Hong Kong , a grinding trade war with the United States . In his telling , the momentum of history was beyond question . " No force can shake the status of our great motherland , " Xi said . " No force can stop the advance of the Chinese people and the Chinese nation . " <p> To a degree still difficult for outsiders to absorb , China is preparing to shape the twenty-first century , much as the U.S. shaped the twentieth . Its government is deciding which features of the global status quo to preserve and which to reject , not only in business , culture , and politics but also in such basic values as human rights , free speech , and privacy . In the lead-up to the anniversary , the government demonstrated its capacity for social surveillance . At the Beijing University of Technology , where students trained to march in the parade , the administration extracted data from I.D . cards to see who ate what in the dining hall , and then delivered targeted guidance for a healthy diet . In the final weeks , authorities narrowed the Internet connection to the outside world , secreted dissidents out of town , and banned the flying of drones , kites , and pet pigeons . <p> From the balcony , Xi presided over fifteen thousand goose-stepping troops and phalanxes of tanks and jets -- five hundred and eighty pieces of equipment in all . For nearly a century , the U.S. has been the dominant military power in the Pacific , as it has in much of the world . Xi sees this as an unacceptable intrusion . " It is for the people of Asia to run the affairs of Asia , solve the problems of Asia , and uphold the security of Asia , " he has said . To achieve that , China has strengthened its military to the point that Pentagon analysts believe it could defeat U.S. forces in a confrontation along its borders . <p> The most anticipated moment of the day was the d ? but of a state-of-the-art missile called the Dongfeng-41 , which can travel at twenty-five times the speed of sound toward targets more than nine thousand miles away , farther than anything comparable in the American arsenal . Watching the missile roll by , Hu Xijin , the editor-in-chief of the GlobalTimes , a nationalistic state newspaper , tweeted , " No need to fear it . Just respect it and respect China . " Hu , a seasoned provocateur , added a sly jab at the travails of democracy : above a picture of the missile , he wrote that China was just fine forgoing the " good stuff " of electoral democracy on display in " Haiti , Libya , Iraq and Ukraine . " <p> When I visited Hu that week , at his office across town , he was in a buoyant mood . The pageant was less about military hardware , he said , than about " self-confidence . " He offered a pitying contrast with the United States . " You overestimated your abilities to transform the world , " he said . " You ca n't simply write the screenplay for the future . China , India , the rest of the world -- everyone will have a hand in the script . " He pointed to America 's pressure on China over trade . " They thought China was going to throw up the white flag , " Hu said . " But China kept up the fight . It appears that the ability to inflict pain on China is not what you thought it would be . " <p> I lived in Beijing for eight years , starting in 2005 . For the past six years , I have lived in Washington , D.C. This fall , I went back and forth between the two capitals , to gauge what lies ahead for a relationship that is more dangerously unstable than it has been since 1972 , when Richard Nixon clasped Mao 's hand in Beijing , setting the course for China 's opening to the world . I talked to those who forged the relationship , and those who would remake it -- in politics , business , security , entertainment , and technology -- and found them startled by the depth of the rupture and the speed with which it has grown . " The relationship is in free fall , " a senior White House official told me . Deng Yuwen , a former top editor of a Communist Party journal who now lives in the United States , told me that when he talks to officials in Beijing they spare him the bluster . " They are very , very worried that the relationship will continue to deteriorate , that the economic impact will hurt people 's confidence and further growth , that it could have effects beyond their grasp , " he said . <p> Some level of tension is endemic . Ever since 1784 , when the first American merchant ship landed in China to trade ginseng for tea , the two sides have cycled through what John Pomfret , the author of " The Beautiful Country and the Middle Kingdom , " calls " rapturous enchantment followed by despair . " But the union has always been derived from mutual benefit . Buyers in Canton generated fortunes for the Astor and the Delano families ; Christian missionaries built China 's first universities and hospitals . The Cold War pulled the countries apart -- the Party feared " Coca-Colanization " -- but eventually the People 's Republic needed cash and foreign know-how . On December 13 , 1978 , Deng Xiaoping announced China 's Open Door policy , inviting in foreign businesses and encouraging Party members to " emancipate their minds . " Two weeks later , the first bottles of Coke arrived . <p> Advertisement <p> Eight American Presidents , from Richard Nixon to Barack Obama , employed a strategy known as " engagement , " based on the conviction that embracing China politically and economically would eventually make it more profitable and liberal . Despite China 's flagrant abuses of intellectual property and human rights , the strategy enabled the largest trading relationship between any two countries in the world , with an estimated seventy thousand American companies doing business in China today . In 2005 , the George W. Bush Administration loosened visa policies , encouraging a huge influx of Chinese students , who now make up the largest group of foreign undergrads in America . Microsoft opened a five-hundred-person research center in Beijing , its biggest lab outside the United States . In speeches to Americans , Communist Party officials adopted a romantic expression more often used in love poems : " There is some of me in you , and some of you in me . " <p> Donald Trump wants none of that . He has always despised trade deficits . In 1988 , when America was flooded with imports from Japan , he told Oprah Winfrey , " They are beating the hell out of this country . " In 2016 , as a Presidential candidate , he adapted his talking points to a new power in East Asia . " We ca n't continue to allow China to rape our country , " he said , at a rally in New Hampshire . Though he occasionally rhapsodized about strongman rule ( " Maybe we 'll want to give that a shot someday " ) , Trump rejected the basic theory of engagement . " You better start uncoupling from China , " he said , in 2015 . " It 's going to bring us down . " <p> Trump 's idea of " uncoupling " -- pushing factories to leave China , reducing the flow of students and technology -- was a fringe position , found mostly in hawkish books such as " Death by China , " by Peter Navarro , a fiery economics professor who joined Trump 's campaign as an adviser . But , once Trump was in office , his confrontational approach attracted surprising bipartisan support . American businesses complained that Chinese hackers were stealing trade secrets , that Chinese officials were forcing them to hand over technology , and that state subsidies to Chinese rivals were making it impossible to compete . American politicians objected to Xi 's brazen roundups of human-rights lawyers , activists , and ethnic minorities . <p> In March , 2018 , with a tweet declaring that " trade wars are good , and easy to win , " Trump announced sweeping tariffs on steel and aluminum imported from China and other countries . Beijing retaliated , and soon trade was yoked by billions of dollars in new taxes . The hostilities multiplied . In September , a Chinese warship and an American destroyer came within fifty yards of each other in the South China Sea , the two navies ' worst near-collision on record . Nine days later , Xu Yanjun , an employee of China 's foreign-intelligence agency , was extradited from Belgium to the U.S. , on charges of conspiring to steal aerospace secrets . ( Xu has pleaded not guilty . ) In October , 2019 , the U.S. blacklisted Chinese technology firms and Party officials for their involvement in the detention of Muslims in Xinjiang . That same month , China turned away an American congressional delegation . " For years , the two were kicking each other under the table , " Minxin Pei , a government professor at Claremont McKenna College , said . " Now all the kicking is out in the open . " <p> Members of the Trump Administration have taken direct aim at China 's ambitions . Last fall , Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said that America and its allies must insure that " China retains only its proper place in the world . " During a visit to Europe , he said , " China wants to be the dominant economic and military power of the world , spreading its authoritarian vision for society and its corrupt practices worldwide . " The Administration 's argument , in its bluntest form , frames China as a hardened foe , too distant from American values to be susceptible to diplomacy . In April , Kiron Skinner , Pompeo 's director of policy planning , said in a public talk , " This is a fight with a really different civilization . " She added that China represented " the first time that we will have a great power competitor that is not Caucasian . " ( The comments caused an uproar . In August , Skinner left the State Department . ) Behind closed doors , Trump aides dismiss Skinner 's invocation of race . But they also liken China to such sworn enemies of America as Iran and the Soviet Union , and argue that only hard-line pressure can " crush " its expansion . <p> Half a century after Henry Kissinger led the secret negotiations that brought Nixon to China , he still meets with leaders in Beijing and Washington . At the age of ninety-six , he has come to believe that the two sides are falling into a spiral of hostile perceptions . " I 'm very concerned , " he told me , his baritone now almost a growl . " The way the relationship has deteriorated in recent months will feed , on both sides , the image that the other one is a permanent adversary . " By the end of 2019 , the Washington establishment had all but abandoned engagement with China . But there was not yet a strategy to replace it . <p> In the void , there was a clamor to set rules for dealing with China in business , geopolitics , and culture , all surrounding a central question : Is the contest a new cold war ? <p> To some in Washington , after eighteen years of unwinnable slogs in Afghanistan and the Middle East , the prospect of reprising the Cold War -- the last major conflict that Washington won -- offers the familiar comfort of an old boot . In March , 2019 , the Committee on the Present Danger -- a group , first formed in the fifties , that encouraged an arms buildup against the Soviets -- was relaunched , with a focus on China . Its events have featured Senator Ted Cruz , the former Trump strategist Steve Bannon , and , notably , the former House Speaker Newt Gingrich , Washington 's best weathervane for political opportunity . In October , Gingrich published " Trump vs . China , " his thirtieth book since leaving office , in 1998 . Discussing the book at the National Press Club , Gingrich told his audience , " If you do n't want your grandchildren speaking Chinese and obeying Beijing , then this is a topic we better have a national dialogue about . " He called China " the greatest threat to us since the British Empire in the seventeen-seventies , much greater than Nazi Germany or the Soviet Union . " <p> For Gingrich and his allies , China is an existential menace , which demands the kind of aggressive military expansion and broad campaign against tyranny that thwarted the Soviet Union . Their bluster belies the fact that the U.S. strategy in the Cold War was largely predicated on avoiding direct conflict . In the opening moments of the Soviet contest -- what Orwell warned would be the " peace that is no peace " -- Americans faced what appeared to be a Manichaean choice : appeasement or a world war . The diplomat George Kennan perceived a third option , which he described , in Foreign Affairs , as the " firm and vigilant containment of Russian expansive tendencies . " Kennan 's theory of containment became America 's defining strategy in the Cold War . <p> In September , Odd Arne Westad , a Yale historian , published an essay in Foreign Affairs that served as a contemporary sequel to Kennan 's missive . He , too , urged patience . " If the United States wants to compete , it must prepare for a long campaign for influence , " he wrote . When I spoke to him recently , he argued that containment is not an option ; China is too rich , and too intertwined with the American economy . But he suggested that Gingrich 's idea of clashing civilizations was also wrongheaded . " The Soviet leaders ' position was that it was necessary to see American power destroyed , " he said . " That 's not China 's game . I have yet to find a single person in the leadership who actually believes that . " <p> Advertisement <p> Westad is clear-eyed about the risks of China 's rise , but he is most alarmed by alarmism itself . The leaders of the two countries are both hasty , intransigent , and not very well informed about the other side 's goals . The U.S. wants to preserve its influence and to balance trade . China seeks , above all , to expand its power in East Asia , as Germany did in Europe more than a century ago . " The United States is not necessarily damaged by China retaking its historical place within eastern Asia , " Westad said . But when these kinds of changes happen too quickly , or when the partisans overreact , the results can be disastrous . " It all depends on timing . That 's what the Chinese have to realize -- and have n't , I think . " He is worried that China and the United States will separate into two distinct blocs , increasingly mistrustful and prone to conflict : " It can happen , as we 've seen in Europe , in ways that unleash generations of warfare . " <p> When the parade wound down in Beijing , I walked east -- back through security and past Mao 's mausoleum , where farmers from distant provinces still line up at dawn to glimpse his remains , held in a crystal coffin . Then I headed north , toward the lakes that once served as the emperors ' pleasure gardens , but I discovered that police had sealed off much of downtown . Every time I tried to turn , they waved me away . A cop encouraged a cluster of pedestrians to keep going east . " I do n't know where the restrictions end -- I just know my area , " he said . I shuffled on , like a mouse in a maze ; twenty minutes became an hour , then two hours . I noticed that we were being herded along the vanished route of the old city wall , a symbol of imperial anxiety that stood for more than five hundred years , until the nineteen-sixties , when it was removed to make room for modern transportation . As I walked , I took to counting surveillance cameras ; there are now an estimated eight hundred thousand in the capital , nearly triple the number in place a decade ago . ( In Hong Kong , protesters have attacked the cameras , as symbols of Beijing 's control . ) <p> Every capital city prizes security , but in Xi 's Beijing it has been elevated to a state religion . Chinese leaders , for all their projections of confidence , see peril everywhere : a precarious economy , an aging population , an Arab Spring-style revolt in Hong Kong , an ethnic insurgency . In a speech last year to the National People 's Congress , Premier Li Keqiang mentioned " risk " twenty-four times , twice as many as on the same occasion three years earlier . In 2018 , China surpassed the Soviet Union as history 's longest-surviving Communist state , a distinction that fuels both pride and paranoia . <p> Chinese leaders have been alarmed by American support of popular uprisings -- first the " color revolutions " in the former Soviet bloc and then the Arab Spring -- and they resent America 's efforts to deepen its influence in Asia . In November , 2011 , with wars in Iraq and Afghanistan winding down , Hillary Clinton , who was then Secretary of State , announced a plan to " redirect some of those investments to opportunities and obligations " in Asia . As part of the " pivot , " as it was known , Obama expanded America 's military presence in Australia , and worked to build the Trans-Pacific Partnership , a trade agreement among twelve nations -- China not among them . " To China , it was an effort to exclude , " Deng Yuwen , the former editor , said . " All of those things appeared to be targeting China from different perspectives -- economically , geopolitically , militarily . " <p> Xi believes that orthodox commitment to Communism is paramount as his country fends off Western influence . In a speech in 2013 , he asked , " Why did the Soviet Communist Party collapse ? " His answer : " Their ideals and convictions wavered . " In Beijing , an ideological revival is in flamboyant effect . Since June , the Party has been waging an old-fashioned dogmatic crusade , known as a " Correct the wind " campaign . In a modern twist , ninety million Party members have been given an app loaded with Xi 's speeches , quizzes about his life story , and videos on history . ( The app keeps track of what they finish . ) " Xi Jinping thinks the whole place slacked off ideologically , " Geremie Barm ? , an independent historian and translator , said . " This campaign is something the Communists have done a number of times when they feel things are a little bit out of control . " Instead of city walls , the Party relies on digital defenses ; day by day , censors purify the Internet of subversive ideas , and facial-recognition technologies track people 's comings and goings . <p> Under Xi , market reforms have stalled , and schools have replaced books by Western economists with tracts published by the Marxist Theory Research and Building Project . Some Party ? lites question whether Deng Xiaoping 's openness went too far . " As the Party returns to the idea that its absolute power is the only thing standing between China and chaos , the United States , and the embrace of markets , is increasingly seen as an enemy , " Westad said . <p> The more Trump 's Washington questions engagement , the more Xi 's Beijing perceives a hostile foe . The current leaders , in both places , cast themselves as defenders against humiliation and threats from the outside . In both cities , it has become easier to be a hawk than a voice of moderation . <p> " I know the schools are great , but is this really the house we want to ride out the apocalypse in ? " <p> I visited Yan Xuetong , an influential foreign-affairs scholar at Tsinghua University , who has a kindly laugh that belies the sharp edge of his views . He predicted the emergence of separate , competing economic and political blocs -- the polarization that Westad fears . " We will have a two-centered world , " he said cheerfully , " like two yolks in one egg . " I puzzled over the image , trying to make out how such a curiosity would survive . But Yan was pleased with his analogy , and extended it into a distinction between the current scenario and the Cold War . " The relationship between the U.S. and the Soviet Union was like two eggs in one basket -- they were separate economically -- but this time you have two yolks competing for support from the egg white . " He paused and tried out a different analogy . " Maybe the right term is a duopolistic world -- like Boeing and Airbus , two companies in a zero-sum competition . " <p> I wanted to hear Yan 's sense of the protests in Hong Kong , which had expanded into the very kind of unrest that terrifies the government . After four months of street demonstrations against Communist Party control , violence was growing . On the day of the parade in Beijing , demonstrators seeking to overshadow events in the capital clashed with police , and , for the first time , an officer shot a protester with live ammunition . Yan saw no prospect that Beijing would compromise . " Violence will become a common phenomenon , " he said . " Like the Palestinian kids firing on Israeli police , but not as grave . " The comparison struck me as odd , until I realized that , from Beijing 's perspective , Israel 's sequestering of the West Bank and Gaza has led to an agreeable scenario : a chronic but confined insurgency that does not threaten the country 's over-all security . <p> Instead of running from confrontation , the Party has rallied around it . Xi emphasizes the importance of " struggle , " and state television has conspicuously rebroadcast old Korean war films depicting battles with American troops . An essay celebrating self-reliance during the starvation of the nineteen-fifties became a viral hit , under the title " A Guide to Eating Tree Bark . " <p> " The Party believes that , if you take one step backward , everything will unravel , " Barm ? said . " The struggle , not the resolution of it , is the way of maintaining unity and primacy . " A struggle properly controlled -- in Xinjiang , Hong Kong , Washington -- can be a political asset . In internal speeches about dealing with America , Party officials call for a precise balance : the goal should be to " struggle but not smash " the relationship -- to exploit the tension without letting hostilities get out of control . <p> Advertisement <p> Thirty years after Coca-Cola symbolized the arrival of American business in China , the company became a symbol of a darker turn in the relationship . In early 2009 , Coke was negotiating a $2.4 billion deal to buy China Huiyuan Juice Group -- the largest-ever foreign takeover of a Chinese company . But , on March 15th , the F.B.I . alerted Coke executives that hackers had broken into their system and were rummaging through e-mails about the negotiation , recording keystrokes , and controlling their computers remotely . Three days later , the talks were dead . Security firms eventually traced the breach to hackers who worked from a twelve-story building on the outskirts of Shanghai : Unit 61398 of the People 's Liberation Army . <p> For as long as the American intelligence community had been online , it had been hacking foreign governments . China did that , too , but its hackers also plundered foreign businesses , looking for an advantage in negotiation , for blueprints to copy , and for other commercial shortcuts . In 2007 , agents of the Chinese military hacked the aerospace firm Lockheed Martin and stole tens of millions of documents related to America 's most expensive weapons system , the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter . A notably similar Chinese plane , the J-31 , appeared soon thereafter . ( China denies stealing the plans . ) The Chinese hacking of American businesses exposed a deep clash of perceptions : America was starting to see China as a near-peer , intent on flouting rules laid down mostly by the West . But China still regarded itself as a scrappy latecomer , using whatever tools it could to protect and improve the lives of a vast population . <p> That clash extends far beyond hacking : China has invoked its status as a " developing country " to erect barriers against foreign competitors , and to coerce American companies into sharing technology . Eventually , those practices turned some American businesses from ardent advocates for good relations into fierce critics . When China joined the World Trade Organization , in 2001 , it agreed to a schedule for dropping tariffs and opening markets . But that schedule ended in 2006 , and so did the momentum toward opening . Arthur Kroeber , the managing director of Gavekal Dragonomics , a research firm in Beijing , said , " Almost immediately , I started hearing complaints from foreign companies about how conditions had changed to create advantages for domestic Chinese firms . " <p> Chinese leaders resented the idea that they should heed the West 's demands . At a dinner hosted by the American Chamber of Commerce in China , a rising nationalist , Bo Xilai , spoke to foreign executives . " I 'd never seen any Chinese leader be so patronizing to that crowd , " John Holden , a former chairman of the chamber , recalled . " He essentially said , ' You complain a lot , but we know you 're making money here , so just get over it . ' " ( Bo was later imprisoned on charges of corruption and abuse of power . ) When the global financial crisis struck , in 2008 , it gave Chinese skeptics of capitalism a powerful argument against American-style reforms . <p> These days , the most acute standoff between the two countries is over who will dominate the next generation of technologies . Until recently , executives in Silicon Valley tended to belittle China 's potential in tech , arguing that rigid controls in politics and education would constrain radical innovation . But that view no longer prevails . Under a plan called Made in China 2025 , Beijing has directed billions in subsidies and research funds to help Chinese companies surpass foreign competitors on such frontiers as electric vehicles and robotics . A Pentagon report commissioned under Obama warned that the U.S. was losing cutting-edge technology to China , not only through theft but also through Chinese involvement in joint ventures and tech startups . It prompted Congress , in 2018 , to tighten rules on foreign investment and export controls . <p> The technology dispute escalated later that year , when the Trump Administration expanded an attack on Huawei , the world 's largest manufacturer of fifth-generation ( 5G ) networking equipment , warning that the Chinese government could use the equipment for spying and hacking . In December , at the request of the U.S. , Canadian authorities arrested Huawei 's chief financial officer , Meng Wanzhou , as she changed planes in Vancouver . Meng , the daughter of the company 's billionaire founder , is known in China as the " princess " of Huawei ; when border agents detained her , she asked incredulously , " Because of my company , you are arresting me ? " She was charged with committing fraud to help Huawei violate sanctions against trade with Iran . While awaiting trial , she was allowed to live in one of the two mansions that her family owns in Vancouver , worth a combined sixteen million dollars . Days after Meng 's arrest , China detained two Canadians -- Michael Kovrig , a diplomat on leave , and Michael Spavor , a consultant -- and accused them of stealing state secrets . After more than a year , neither has been permitted to see a lawyer . <p> In May , the Administration took its largest step yet against Huawei : the Commerce Department blacklisted it from buying American microchips and other technology -- a blow to Huawei 's ability to make the smartphones and networking equipment that it sells around the world . And yet the campaign against Huawei has been hampered by the Administration 's diplomatic isolation . The U.S. has asked sixty-one countries to ban Huawei equipment , but only three -- Australia , New Zealand , and Japan -- have agreed . A European diplomat told me that , despite credible concern about the use of Huawei 's products in spying , the campaign has been ham-fisted -- a demand for us-or-them loyalty at a time " when you 're slapping tariffs on your European allies . " <p> Senator Mark Warner , of Virginia , the top Democrat on the Intelligence Committee , supports efforts to stop China 's theft of trade secrets , but he calls Trump 's broader strategy " erratic and incoherent . " China 's gains in technology should be " a new Sputnik moment , " triggering huge investment , he said . The U.S. does not have a 5G alternative to compete with China 's , a failure that can not be blamed on spying . As a share of the economy , America 's federal investment in research and development has fallen to its lowest point since 1955 . Warner said , " We 've always steered away from industrial policy , but we may need to make public-private investments , or government investments , in ' democracy 5G . ' " <p> If America does not compete with China 's advances , it risks losing a voice in deciding the ethics of some unsettling new technologies . Since 2017 , China has erected an unprecedented digital and physical enclosure around Muslims in its Xinjiang region . It is estimated that more than a million people have been interned in facilities known officially as " vocational training centers . " Millions more are tracked every day by facial-recognition cameras , fingerprints , cell-phone patterns , and biometric data , collected through a program of mandatory exams known as Physicals for All . Multiple provinces have taken to collecting DNA samples , in order to " improve population management and control , " as one police notice put it . The prospect of China extending , or exporting , the Xinjiang model has exposed the stakes in the future of intrusive technologies . Warner said , " The situation that 's playing out in 5G will soon play out in facial recognition , artificial intelligence , and quantum computing . " <p> When Trump first imagined " uncoupling " -- or " decoupling , " as it became known -- the term evoked a divorce . But a complete decoupling is implausible . " Total revenue of U.S. companies and affiliates in China in 2017 , for one year , is five hundred and forty-four billion dollars , " Kroeber told me . " What 's the chance these numbers can go down eighty or ninety per cent ? Almost no chance . We can remove a few of those tangles , but the cost to the U.S. economy of removing them all would be unacceptably high . " <p> Advertisement <p> Some companies -- Nintendo , GoPro , Hasbro -- have accelerated plans to build factories in places such as India , Vietnam , and Mexico . But most American C.E.O.s want more access to China , not less . Amid the trade war , Starbucks announced plans to open three thousand new Chinese stores by 2023 -- an average of one every fifteen hours . Tesla opened a plant in Shanghai that will build a hundred and fifty thousand cars a year . Elon Musk , the company 's founder , has called the plant a " template for future growth . " <p> The Trump Administration 's efforts to force China into major concessions have faltered , as U.S. negotiators bickered openly over strategy . In February , both countries were said to be drawing up memorandums of understanding on six major issues , including cyber theft and intellectual-property rights . But , in a meeting with Chinese officials in the Oval Office , Trump undercut his top negotiator , Robert Lighthizer , by disputing the legitimacy of that step . " I do n't like M.O.U.s , because they do n't mean anything , " Trump said . Lighthizer , flustered , said , " We 're never going to use M.O.U. again , " drawing laughter from Chinese negotiators . <p> Trump 's advisers also fundamentally miscalculated the effect of their actions . In July , 2016 , Navarro , who went on to become the White House director of trade and manufacturing policy , predicted that the mere threat of tariffs would force China to capitulate . " The purpose is not to impose tariffs , " he told me at the time . " The purpose is to use the threat of tariffs as a way of getting the attention of any trading partners that cheat , and , basically , encouraging them to play by the rules , knowing that Trump , if they do n't , damn well will follow through on that promise . " A tariff program , he said , is " kind of like the military -- if it 's strong enough , then nobody messes with you . " By October , 2019 , tariffs had been in place for fifteen months , suppressing investment and weighing on the American economy . The Department of Agriculture had allocated twenty-eight billion dollars in aid to farmers for lost exports -- more than twice as much as taxpayers spent to bail out the auto industry a decade earlier . Researchers estimated that by the year 's end the tariffs would have cost the average U.S. household thirteen hundred dollars . <p> " The power went out and I could n't find any candles , but I could find your shorts I hate . " <p> With a Presidential election a year away , Trump 's trade war was becoming a political liability . The Chinese side was in no rush to resolve it . In September , an American billionaire investor told me that he had advised the President to show progress , if he wanted a strong economy on Election Day . " You have to have a deal done by the end of the year , " the investor said . " If you get a deal in March or April , by then the economy 's already gone . " The next month , negotiators abruptly announced what they called " phase one " of a trade deal . The terms , finalized in December , called for both sides to cut tariffs ; China also agreed to buy more farm exports , energy , and manufactured goods from the U.S. , in return for which Trump would suspend upcoming tariffs . On Twitter , Trump had hailed it as " the greatest and biggest deal ever made for our Great Patriot Farmers in the history of our Country . " But the truce did not resolve the core disputes , such as technology transfer , and , outside the White House , it was mostly seen as the end of a wasteful stunt . " Trump was looking for any possible excuse not to put on the tariffs that he had threatened , " Kroeber said , " so he got a promise from the Chinese to buy soybeans and some other stuff , and he packaged this . " <p> In China , the deal was greeted warily , with no expectation that it would relieve the standoff . Chinese analysts have described their side 's approach as dada , tantan -- " fight fight , talk talk " -- a pointed expression that Mao used in the nineteen-forties to describe his strategy when Americans pressured him to stop fighting the rival Nationalist Army . Mao always assented to their requests for talks , even as he steadily gained ground on the battlefield . In the end , he won . <p> Chris Johnson , a former C.I.A . analyst who is now a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies , asked a group of Chinese contacts what their government got from Trump 's push for a deal at any price . " Their response was ' Time , ' " he said . " Reading between the lines , they meant time without new tariffs in the near term , and time to prepare for what they presume is an inevitable larger confrontation . " <p> Beijing in July is an open-air sauna , windless and smothering beneath the monsoon clouds . In the summer of 2005 , when I moved there , a pale disk of sun barely peeked through the pollution -- but , for the teen-agers at my neighborhood basketball court , the game was always on . Smog , sun , rain , it did n't matter : they were vamping , attempting to dunk , swimming in oversized Kobe Bryant jerseys , trying out American laji hua ( trash talk ) . <p> For previous generations , showboating on the court had been so anathema that Chinese basketball teams were barred from keeping statistics for individual players . But the National Basketball Association recognized the surging potential of a China that was opening itself to outside culture . In 2002 , a giant from Shanghai named Yao Ming was the first pick in the N.B.A. draft , and , that year , the league opened its China office , with a single employee . By 2005 , surveys of Chinese young people showed that basketball was edging out soccer as the most popular sport . That fall , when I met Mark Fischer , a lanky American running the N.B.A. 's operation in China , he told me , " The sky 's the limit for basketball here . " <p> Nearly fifteen years later , much of that prediction is true . China is the N.B.A. 's most lucrative domain outside the U.S. ; the China operation has been valued at more than four billion dollars , and star players earn a fortune in sneaker deals . Klay Thompson , of the Golden State Warriors , stands to make eighty million dollars in ten years from Anta , a Chinese brand , according to ESPN . But , last fall , the N.B.A. discovered a limit of a different kind in China . On October 5th , Daryl Morey , the general manager of the Houston Rockets , posted a slogan to his personal Twitter feed : " Fight for freedom . Stand with Hong Kong . " He later deleted the tweet , but China 's state media had already begun reporting on it , and the stories set off a cascade of outrage . Chinese sponsors pulled funding from the Rockets , merchandise disappeared from e-commerce sites , and state television cancelled broadcasts of games . Chinese commenters flooded Morey 's Twitter account with angry notes , including " N.M.S.L. " -- Chinese slang for " Your mother is dead . " <p> Rather than coming to Morey 's defense , the N.B.A. issued an obsequious statement in Chinese : " We are extremely disappointed in the inappropriate remarks made by Houston Rockets General Manager Daryl Morey . " LeBron James -- a frequent visitor to China on behalf of Nike , which makes more than one and a half billion dollars a year there -- urged his colleagues to watch their words . He told reporters that Morey was not " educated on the situation , " and that his tweet risked harming people " not only financially but physically , emotionally , spiritually . " American fans were appalled . Online , people posted images of James 's head photoshopped onto hundred-yuan notes . <p> Ultimately , the N.B.A. 's commissioner , Adam Silver , reported " fairly dramatic " financial repercussions from lost business in China , but he rebuffed a request to fire Morey , and emphasized the league 's commitment to free expression . He told an audience in New York , " These American values -- we are an American business -- travel with us wherever we go . " But the N.B.A. kerfuffle exposed a larger phenomenon : China 's market had become so crucial to American institutions that they were blandly accepting demands for censorship and submission . When the Eastman School of Music , at the University of Rochester , was preparing for a tour of China , it could not get visas for South Korean students . It discovered that Beijing had blocked visas for South Korean performers since 2016 , as punishment for a diplomatic dispute . Instead of postponing the tour , the school decided to leave all the South Koreans home , fearing what the dean called " a negative impact on Eastman 's reputation within China . " ( After a public outcry , it abandoned the tour . ) <p> Advertisement <p> China is not exporting a state ideology in the manner of the Soviet Union . But it wants to make the world more amenable to its ideology , so it has demanded extraterritorial censorship , compelling outsiders to accept limits on free speech beyond its borders . For years , Hollywood studios have agreed to cut material from their films to get them into China . " Bohemian Rhapsody , " the Oscar-winning movie about the band Queen , was released in China in 2019 only after it was re ? dited to remove any mention of Freddie Mercury 's sexual orientation . <p> Judd Apatow , the filmmaker and comedian , told me that Americans intended to introduce freedom to China , but instead traded it for Chinese money . " I think it happened very slowly and insidiously , " he said . " You would not see a major film company or studio make a movie that has story lines which are critical of countries with major markets or investors . The question becomes : what 's the result of all of this ? The result is , there are a million or more Muslims in re ? ducation camps in China , and you do n't really hear much about it . " <p> In October , Quentin Tarantino refused to modify the Chinese version of his film " Once Upon a Time . . . in Hollywood , " after relatives of the late martial-arts star Bruce Lee complained about an unflattering portrayal of him , so China cancelled its release . Apatow said , " Quentin Tarantino is successful enough , and has the power and final cut , but very few people are in that position of strength . What you do n't hear about is all of the ideas that get killed at the earliest pitch stage , at all of the studios and networks , because people do n't even want to consider dealing with it . " <p> Accepting censorship for profit rests on the tempting logic that reaching Chinese buyers with a bowdlerized portrait of the world is better than not reaching them at all . In fact , censored imports have helped acclimate Chinese citizens to a parallel reality , in which Freddie Mercury was not gay , and in which nobody in the N.B.A. cares about Hong Kong . When Chinese consumers erupt at something like Daryl Morey 's tweet , it indicates not a growing awareness of what the rest of the world thinks but a growing seclusion from it . <p> For forty years , the two sides strained to look past their underlying political differences , but , as their contact intensified , ignoring the contradictions became more difficult . By the end of 2019 , a web of cracks had appeared throughout domains that were once integrated . At least ten American colleges had closed outposts of the Confucius Institute , a **25;5493;TOOLONG cultural program . In Beijing , the government had issued an unprecedented order , directing public institutions to remove all foreign computer equipment and software within three years . In Silicon Valley , some companies concluded that entering China had become all but impossible . Last year , Facebook , which had been asking China for years to let it operate there , abandoned the effort . Reed Hastings , the C.E.O . of Netflix , acknowledged the barriers before him , saying , " We will be blocked in China for a long time . " <p> In Beijing , it often feels as if a universe of ideas is reconstituting itself , with China at its center . I visited Joan Xu , an American screenwriter with an office at a WeWork downtown . She wore a slate-blue silk shirt and jeans , and handed me coffee in a mug with a WeWork slogan : " Do what you love . " Xu 's parents emigrated from China to the U.S. to attend graduate school in economics . She was born in Pittsburgh and raised in Maryland . " I grew up in white suburbs with other lawyers ' and professors ' kids , " she said . In 2003 , when she was fourteen , the family moved to Beijing . Her mother became a professor at Peking University , and Xu entered a prestigious middle school , where she had to catch up by learning to read and write Chinese . " Before that , I was very much single-culture , " she said . " Now we were memorizing poems written two thousand years ago . That was just mind-blowing to me , coming from an American education , where two hundred years is old . " <p> After high school , she returned to the U.S. to attend Harvard , where she sang in an a-cappella group and re ? mbraced American life . In her application , she described wanting to be " a U.S.-China bridge " who might bring the countries closer together . " Everybody was , like , ' Oh , this is great , ' " she said . She loved Harvard , where she majored in political science , but a tone in her classes surprised her . " My sophomore tutorial was themed ' Democracy . ' It was basically a whole year of every famous professor coming in and giving a lecture about why democracy is the only legitimate form of governance . " She told me , " It felt like the political classes in high school in China , where everyone knows it 's propaganda . It did n't encompass the world I 'd known . " <p> Xu moved back to Beijing in 2012 , and eventually started working on co-productions between Chinese and American filmmakers . " It was , like , ' Oh , this is the future ! The two greatest countries producing culture together . ' " Her optimism has since waned . " It has become pretty clear in the last few years that the Hollywood-China co-production is not a thing . It still happens financially ; it just did n't happen creatively . " A breaking point came in 2016 , with the release of a historical fantasy called " The Great Wall , " directed by Zhang Yimou ; it starred Matt Damon as a warrior with Chinese comrades , all fending off monsters . In the hype preceding its release , the producer hailed it as " a new kind of film . " Afterward , USA Today judged it " a complete train wreck . " Xu told me , " No one has attempted to do a large-scale creative collaboration like that again . " She went on , " It was already , conceptually , about as middle ground as a blockbuster had gotten . So , it was just , like , ' O.K. , there is no middle ground . Culturally it 's just too different . ' " Chinese audiences will watch Chinese movies , or American blockbusters , but the combination does n't work . <p> Xu still wants to be bicultural , but she finds it increasingly difficult to combine both sets of values . " All of my friends who are similar to me in Beijing , in every one of our industries , ' U.S.-China ' is not a thing anymore , " she said . " We 're basically seen as just China people now . " <p> Xu told me she is " pro-China , " and I asked what she meant . " Most people who are within the sphere of the West kind of reflexively look at China and see , ' Oh , wow , totalitarian dictatorship , oppression , no human rights , suffering . ' Just evil , right ? To be ' pro-China ' is simply to realize that 's not right ; there is much more going on . It 's not perfect , but it 's just simply an alternative system . " She went on , " I would say that the ideals of human rights are not bad to aim for , but it 's not a universal , God-given thing . It was something that was consensus-driven at a certain point in Western history . If you look at Chinese social progression , things are genuinely getting better for most people , despite the problems . It 's more of a battle of narratives about values . " <p> " For my next trick , I 'll need a volunteer , a fake knife , and a mirrored box with a secret compartment . " <p> It 's an argument one often hears in Beijing , and also among foreign investors and executives who seek business there . Google developed a prototype of a censored search engine called Dragonfly , which would have blocked thousands of words and phrases , including " human rights " and " student protest . " The C.E.O. , Sundar Pichai , said , in 2018 , " I think it 's important for us , given how important the market is and how many users there are . " ( After protests by employees , Google announced that it had halted work on the project . ) <p> Advertisement <p> Xi Jinping promotes the view that China 's system presents an alternative to free-market democracy -- what he has called " a new option for other countries and nations who want to speed up their development while preserving their independence . " He has found some fertile markets for that view , in an era when Trump has reduced aid spending , separated children from parents at the border , and called migrants " animals . " <p> And yet China 's sprint for soft power has been less successful than one might assume . The scale and posture of its new power has aroused a backlash , even in places where it offers the Belt and Road Initiative , a global infrastructure push larger than the Marshall Plan . In Malaysia , which once welcomed a surge of Chinese investment , Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad has grown concerned about " a new version of colonialism . " Mahathir cancelled Chinese projects worth almost twenty-three billion dollars , seeking to avoid the fate of Sri Lanka , which defaulted on heavy Chinese loans and eventually agreed to give Beijing control of a major seaport for ninety-nine years . <p> When I spoke to Jorge Guajardo , the former Mexican ambassador to Beijing , I mentioned Westad 's prediction of a " long campaign for influence . " Guajardo told me that , for all of Trump 's harm to the reputation of the U.S. , it has not lost the campaign in Latin America , because Beijing 's ventures can be heavy-handed or self-serving . Chinese investors have been criticized for importing workers for infrastructure projects , instead of generating local jobs , and for seeking control of large swaths of national territory . " The Soviets were going after the hearts and minds of the local populations , " Guajardo said . " The Chinese could care less . " <p> In the contest for hearts and minds , America has no better chance to make its case than to foreign students who come for higher education -- including an estimated three hundred and seventy thousand from China in the most recent academic year , four times as many as a decade ago . <p> Last fall , I spent time with three Chinese undergraduates at American University , on the lush outskirts of Washington , D.C. Xu Tong , who grew up in Harbin , in China 's frigid northeast , was still marvelling at how different Washington is from her home -- no skyscrapers , few people , old trees . In China 's new cities , the trees are spindles . " Washington feels like a garden , " she said . A generation ago , Chinese students tended to study on scholarship , but now many subsidize the education of Americans by paying full freight . Xu was surprised by the thriftiness of American classmates . " Maybe it 's because China is new to money , and everyone attaches great importance to enjoyment , but students here seem to spend very little money , " she said . " When we go out , we take Uber , but they take the subway . " <p> Lai Ziyi , who grew up in Jiangxi , in southern China , had assumed that the U.S. capital city would be under intense security . " But there are shooting incidents , " she said . When she told her parents , they freaked out , and so Lai scrambled to assure them that her campus is near the Department of Homeland Security . " They said , ' O.K. , fine . ' " <p> More than four years had passed since Lai applied to college in America , and the hostilities had startled her . In recent years , the U.S. has prosecuted at least half a dozen Chinese students and scholars for spying or for stealing scientific research . In 2018 , Ji Chaoqun , an electrical-engineering student at the Illinois Institute of Technology , was charged with acting as an agent for China 's Ministry of State Security , and accused of trying to recruit spies among engineers and scientists . ( Ji has pleaded not guilty . ) Christopher Wray , the director of the F.B.I. , warned the Senate Judiciary Committee that China has enlisted " nontraditional collectors " of intelligence to " steal their way up the economic ladder at our expense . " <p> Trump offers an impressionistic version of these facts . Discussing China over dinner with C.E.O.s , he reportedly said that " almost every student that comes over to this country is a spy . " In 2018 , the U.S. government advised university administrators to be vigilant against the theft of biomedical secrets , and it cut the duration of visas available to Chinese graduate students working on advanced technology . Some schools believe the scrutiny is excessive . In an open letter in June , M.I.T. 's president , L. Rafael Reif , wrote that the cases of wrongdoing " are the exception and very far from the rule . Yet faculty members , post-docs , research staff and students tell me that , in their dealings with government agencies , they now feel unfairly scrutinized , stigmatized and on edge -- because of their Chinese ethnicity alone . " <p> Lai told me , " My dream was to be a lawyer . " But when she tried to combine a degree in law with aerospace or chemical engineering she was advised to look elsewhere . " These are sensitive majors , " she said . " If you study for a master 's degree , you would get restrictions from the American government . " She has no regrets about coming , but the longer she stays in America , the more she feels tempted to recede into a community of Chinese students . It reminded me of some of my experiences studying in China -- the tug between loneliness and curiosity , the intensifying effect of life far from home , which can make you more patriotic than you were when you left . Watching the unrest in Hong Kong had convinced Lai that the Beijing government was right to condemn the protesters . " Most of them are just full of violence . And , as a Chinese person from the mainland , I love my country , and I do n't think these things should happen anymore . " <p> When Zhao Yuchen arrived in America , last August , he was the only foreign student on his floor , and he cherished the isolation ; it helped him make friends with Americans , as well as with students from Japan , Zimbabwe , Nigeria , and Mongolia . At nineteen , he is tall and confident . He grew up in Taiyuan , in China 's coal country , where his father sold mining equipment . Neither of his parents went to college , but they supported his decision to study in America . " My father does n't like the Chinese education system , " he told me . " He thinks it ca n't improve my creative thinking . " <p> Zhao wandered the museums run by the Smithsonian , and he savored the sudden absence of control . " It 's free , " he said . " I can express what I want to say , and I do n't need to fear the teacher 's reaction . " He stayed up late scouring the uncensored Internet for facts about the Cultural Revolution and the massacre at Tiananmen Square . An uncle of his had taken part in the democracy demonstrations , but they 'd never talked much about it , he said . In China , he 'd asked in school about the demonstrations . " My teacher just told me , ' You 're wrong . ' " <p> As he read -- about Taiwan , about the war with Japan , about relations with the U.S. -- he began to doubt the history he was taught in high school . " It can change my whole attitude toward my Party , if what the books say is true , " he said . When he talks with friends back home about his discoveries , they mock him for being " brainwashed by America , " he said . " Americans think that free speech and freedom of press is basic for people . But in China we think the community , the country , is the first thing we need to think about . Most ordinary Chinese people do n't understand why democracy is so important for America . They 'll say , ' Yes , America brings democracy to Iraq , to Afghanistan , to lots of countries . But these countries are getting killed now . ' They say , ' We 're not democratic , but we live in a peaceful country . We have a good living standard . ' " He feels that his countrymen are too quick to dismiss what he loves about life outside . " They 've lost their basic ability to think independently , I think . " <p> Advertisement <p> Spending time with Zhao reminded me that , for all the failed promise of our bicultural experiment -- the train wreck of " The Great Wall , " the nationalism that going abroad can foster -- the revelations that Chinese people can experience here are too valuable to be forsaken . If America closes its doors to Chinese students , it will not only deprive us of their talent and ambition ; it will sacrifice the power of our uncensored world . <p> In Beijing , I had lunch with Xue Qikun , a quantum physicist who is one of China 's most decorated scientists . An elfin figure with a warm , discursive manner ( asked for a brief summary of his work , he spoke for thirty-two minutes ) , Xue worked in Japan and the U.S. before returning to teach at Tsinghua University . He believes that Americans overlook the benefit of their country 's reputation as a magnet for researchers . " In addition to our learning something from the U.S. professors , the U.S. professors learn something from us , " he said . " We have thirty years of hard work and experience . " After the Second World War , Xue noted , the U.S. " collected all the best people in the world . " Now European postdocs are coming to China to work with him . If the U.S. squeezes out Chinese scholars , both sides will suffer , he predicts . " We can work hard by ourselves -- no problem at all -- but then you 'll lose good people , " he said . " If you cut off , you send a big signal to everyone in the world . " <p> The risk of espionage on campus is real . But there is also a risk in Trump 's exaggerated talk of spies , the F.B.I . ' s warnings of " nontraditional collectors , " and the political opportunity exploited by Gingrich and others -- a risk that Susan Shirk , the chair of the 21st Century China Center , at the University of California , San Diego , calls " an anti-Chinese version of the Red Scare . " China 's state press trumpets those moves at every opportunity ( " Spying Bogey Demonizes Chinese in US , " as a headline in the Global Times put it ) , because they advance the Communist Party 's argument that American pressure is born not of reason but of anxiety over a rival that is , in the words of Kiron Skinner , " not Caucasian . " <p> The closest that China and the United States have come to an actual fight in recent decades was in 1996 , in a squabble over the island of Taiwan -- the land mine at the center of the relationship . Taiwan has resisted Communist control since 1949 , and America has pledged to defend it from attacks . In March , 1996 , Beijing , fearing that Taiwan was moving toward independence , fired ballistic missiles into the waters off the coast . President Clinton responded by sending in two aircraft-carrier groups , the largest show of force in Asia since the Vietnam War . Chinese leaders backed down -- and started working to prevent such a capitulation from ever being necessary again . <p> At first , progress was haphazard . In 1998 , China bought the rusting hulk of an unfinished Soviet aircraft carrier , which had been abandoned in Ukraine at the collapse of the Soviet Union , and announced plans to tow it to Macau and turn it into a floating casino and hotel . Instead , the Chinese Navy restored it , and in 2012 commissioned it as the country 's first carrier . Last month , China launched a second carrier , and it is expected to build several more in the next decade . <p> It has also acquired new missiles , air defenses , submarines , and cyber weapons that can scramble the electrical grids of an opponent . The U.S. still spends more than twice as much on defense each year , but if a similar crisis emerged today China would not need to back down ; in war games commissioned by the Pentagon , China routinely wins battles with America over Taiwan . In 2018 , Admiral Philip S. Davidson , the head of U.S. Indo-Pacific Command , told Congress , " China is now capable of controlling the South China Sea in all scenarios short of war with the United States . " The risk is not theoretical . In January , in Xi 's first major speech about Taiwan , he said that the island " must and will be " reunited with China eventually , and warned that China reserves the right to use force against any " intervention by external forces . " <p> As remote as a clash may seem to Americans , a certain fatalism about the tension has crept into conversation in Beijing . Hu Xijin , the editor of the Global Times , told me , " To some extent , it was doomed to happen " -- because , he explained , America fears a challenge to its supremacy . Once the trade war began , in the summer of 2018 , many in Beijing ascribed it to America 's basic unwillingness to accept China 's rise . The People 's Daily declared , " Whichever country becomes America 's most important competitor , America will try to contain it . " <p> But Shirk traces the roots of today 's conflicts to political decisions in Beijing a decade ago , and the effect they had in Washington . " I do n't buy that it was inevitable , and this did not begin with the Trump Administration , " she said . " What we 're seeing today is the result of specific choices . " In the aughts , China 's President , Hu Jintao , had a weak hold over the politburo ; to avoid a repeat of Mao 's dictatorship , the Party practiced " collective leadership , " in which top bosses divvied up powers , from intelligence-gathering to propaganda to the manufacturing of steel . Over time , each sector became an aggressive fiefdom , taking greater risks to win resources and advance China 's ambitions . " Nobody checked anybody , " Shirk said . Parts of China 's vast government " started overreaching to the point that policies have snapped back and harmed the country . " <p> Chinese hackers , for instance , at the behest of various agencies -- military , intelligence -- roamed farther and wider . In 2014 , they stole the private records of twenty-two million U.S. government employees and their relatives from a server at the Office of Personnel Management . It was more alarming than the usual breach ; foreign spy agencies could use those records to identify people who work covertly as U.S. employees , or have secrets that would make them vulnerable to blackmail . The following year , Xi promised Obama to curtail hacking , and it briefly died down , but China 's cyberattacks have since resumed , including " widespread operations to target engineering , telecommunications , and aerospace industries , " according to a 2018 report by the U.S. intelligence community . <p> A similar dynamic has played out on China 's coast . For years , Beijing coveted control of the South China Sea , for natural resources and strategic terrain . In 2012 , it seized a reef near the Philippines called Scarborough Shoal -- China 's boldest use of force in the area . The Administration considered it a minor diplomatic dispute , and did not want to risk violence in order to push China back . Some national-security officials contend that this leniency encouraged China to make further forays into disputed territory . " ' No-drama Obama ' did n't want any messiness , " a former U.S. official said . " Today the Chinese say , ' We ca n't believe you did n't react . ' " In 2014 , China started building artificial islands atop seven reefs in the South China Sea , as markers of territory and staging grounds for weapons . Obama pressured Xi to stop , and , in the Rose Garden , Xi said that China had " no intention to militarize " the islands . But the military construction never ceased ; China calls the islands " necessary defense facilities . " <p> China 's maneuvers radicalized members of America 's national-security community , in a cycle that Shirk calls " overreach and overreaction . " Paul Haenle , a retired Army officer and an Asia adviser to Bush and Obama , said , " If you talk to folks in the Pentagon , they say they 're no longer debating whether or not China is an enemy . They 're planning for war . " Haenle , who now directs the Carnegie-Tsinghua Center for Global Policy , continued , " That really worries me . It 's a change . If you talk about co ? peration , you 're ' na ? ve . ' Eventually the pendulum has got to swing back , because the key question is : how can we be both a strategic competitor with China and a strategic co ? perator ? " <p> Advertisement <p> The most dangerous frontier between Chinese and American power today is the contested terrain of the Western Pacific : Taiwan , the South China Sea , and a series of shoals and islands that are unfamiliar to the American public . In the South China Sea , the U.S. protests China 's claims by deploying warships and jets close to the artificial islands , while Chinese vessels and planes try to scare them off , a game of chicken that has produced , by the Pentagon 's count , at least eighteen unsafe encounters since 2016 -- near-collisions at sea or in the air that could have killed troops . Adding to the risk , the U.S. and Chinese militaries have abandoned some lines of communication , and failed to agree on sufficient rules of conduct at sea , the kinds of measures that prevented minor incidents from escalating into catastrophe during the Cold War . <p> Johnson , the former C.I.A . analyst , said the United States must make realistic decisions about where it is prepared to deter China 's expansion and where it is not . " If we think we can maintain the same dominance we have had since 1945 , well , that train has left the station , " he told me . " We should start by racking and stacking China 's global ambitions and determining what we ca n't accommodate and what we can , then communicate that to the Chinese at the highest levels , and operationalize them through red lines we will enforce . We 're not doing that . Instead , what we 're doing are things that masquerade as a strategy but , in fact , amount to just kicking them in the balls . " <p> By the end of 2019 , nearly two years into the new era of confrontation , China and America were moving steadily toward a separation that is less economic than political and psychological . Each side had embraced a form of " fight fight , talk talk , " steeling for a " peace that is no peace , " as Orwell had it . <p> But Henry Kissinger considers America 's contest with China to be both less dire and more complex than the Soviet struggle . " We were dealing with a bipolar world , " he told me . " Now we 're dealing with a multipolar world . The components of an international system are so much more varied , and the lineups are much more difficult to control . " <p> For that reason , Kissinger says , the more relevant and disturbing analogy is to the First World War . In that view , the trade war is an ominous signal ; economic polarization , of the kind that pitted Britain against Germany before 1914 , has often been a prelude to real war . " If it freezes into a permanent conflict , and you have two big blocs confronting each other , then the danger of a pre-World War I situation is huge , " Kissinger said . " Look at history : none of the leaders that started World War I would have done so if they had known what the world would look like at the end . That is the situation we must avoid . " Westad agrees . " The pre-1914 parallel is , of course , not just the growth in German power , " he said . " What we , I think , need to focus on is what actually led to war . What led to war was the German fear of being in a position where their power would not strengthen in the future , where they were , as they put it in the summer of 1914 , at the maximum moment . " <p> On each side , the greatest risk is blindness born of ignorance , hubris , or ideology . If the Trump Administration were to gamble on national security the way that Navarro did with his botched predictions on trade , the consequences would be grave ; if Xi embraces a caricature of America determined to exclude China from prosperity , he could misperceive this as his " maximum moment . " <p> The most viable path ahead is an uneasy coexistence , founded on a mutual desire to " struggle but not smash " the relationship . Coexistence is neither decoupling nor appeasement ; it requires , above all , deterrence and candor -- a constant reckoning with what kind of change America will , and will not , accept . Success hinges not on abstract historical momentum but on hard , specific day-to-day decisions -- what the political scientist Richard Rosecrance , in his study of the First World War , called the " tyranny of small things . " <p> To avoid catastrophe , both sides will have to accept truths that so far they have not : China must acknowledge the outrage caused by its overreaching bids for control , and America must adjust to China 's presence , without selling honor for profit . The ascendant view in Washington holds that the competition is us-or-them ; in fact , the reality of this century will be us-and-them . It is na ? ve to imagine wrestling China back to the past . The project , now , is to contest its moral vision of the future . ? <p> Published in the print edition of the January 13 , 2020 , issue , with the headline " Fight Fight , Talk Talk . " 
@@31566278 <h> The Emails on Salaita <p> As U. of Illinois offers public explanation for blocking hire of professor , newly released documents show involvement of fund-raisers and interest in keeping trustees informed as chancellor prepared to nix appointment . <h> By <p> On Friday , officials of the University of Illinois offered their first public explanations of the decision to block the hiring of Steven Salaita . They denied that his criticism of Israel was the reason , and said that they were committed to promoting an atmosphere in which people and ideas are not demeaned . <p> " What we can not and will not tolerate at the University of Illinois are personal and disrespectful words or actions that demean and abuse either viewpoints themselves or those who express them . We have a particular duty to our students to ensure that they live in a community of scholarship that challenges their assumptions about the world but that also respects their rights as individuals , " said an email from Phyllis M. Wise ( below right ) , chancellor of the Urbana-Champaign campus where the American Indian studies program offered Salaita a tenured position that he and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weeks ago that Wise told Salaita that the job would not be his because she would not submit it to the Illinois board for approval , the decision has been the subject of intense national debate in academic circles and beyond . <p> Critics of the appointment have argued that Salaita 's attacks on Israel and the country 's supporters are vile in tone and would legitimately make some students believe him to be someone they could not trust to treat them fairly . But critics of Wise 's decision to block the appointment -- some while also denouncing Salaita 's statements , and others saying that they are n't as terrible as they have been made out to be -- say that the chancellor 's actions are an attack on academic freedom . <p> Thus far , the email from Wise -- and one that followed from the board and president of the Illinois system , strongly backing Wise -- have not calmed the criticism from national academic leaders ( and may have intensified that criticism ) . <p> Emails Sent to the Chancellor <p> Also on Friday , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Higher Ed for communications to the chancellor about the Salaita appointment , prior to her action to block it . The communications show that Wise was lobbied on the decision not only by pro-Israel students , parents and alumni , but also by the fund-raising arm of the university . The communications also show that the university system president was involved , and that the university was considering the legal ramifications of the case before the action to block the appointment . <p> Most of the emails have the names of the senders redacted and some are nearly identical , suggesting the use of talking points or shared drafts . Many of the letter writers identify themselves as Jewish and/or sympathetic to Israel , as students , parents or alumni , and as people who say that the tone of Salaita 's comments ( especially on Twitter ) makes them believe he would be hostile to them and to their views . <p> " If I happen to register for Mr. Salaita 's course , how could I respectfully engage in conversation and learn material ? " asked one email @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not feel comfortable knowing that the University of Illinois allows and supports this sort of behavior . I am currently an incoming senior , and while this is not the first time I have felt anti-Semitism at the University of Illinois , this is by far the most extreme and hurtful case . " <p> Seventy people wrote to Wise to urge her to block Salaita 's appointment ( it is possible that some of the email messages are duplicates from the same person -- the redactions make it impossible to tell ) . Only one person -- an alumnus -- wrote to urge Wise not to block the appointment . Of Salaita , this alumnus wrote : " He offers what may be an inconvenient and unpopular viewpoint to many ; however as a teacher , I have come to fully believe that is what makes for the richest of educational experiences . " <p> Many of the emails quoted some of the Twitter posts Salaita has made . Among the tweets cited : " At this point , if Netanyahu appeared on TV with a necklace made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surprised ? #Gaza . " And : " By eagerly conflating Jewishness and Israel , Zionists are partly responsible when people say antisemitic shit in response to Israeli terror . " And : " Zionists , take responsibility : if your dream of an ethnocratic Israel is worth the murder of children , just fucking own it already . " <p> While many of the emails are fairly similar , some stand out . For instance , there is an email from Travis Smith , senior director of development for the University of Illinois Foundation , to Wise , with copies to Molly Tracy , who is in charge of fund-raising for engineering programs , and Dan C. Peterson , vice chancellor for institutional advancement . The email forwards a letter complaining about the Salaita hire . The email from Smith says : " Dan , Molly , and I have just discussed this and believe you need to redacted . " ( The blacked out portion suggests a phrase is missing , not just a word or two . ) <p> Later emails show Wise and her development team @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , although there is no indication of what was decided . <p> At least one email the chancellor received was from someone who identified himself as a major donor who said that he would stop giving if Salaita were hired . " Having been a multiple 6 figure donor to Illinois over the years I know our support is ending as we vehemently disagree with the approach this individual espouses . This is doubly unfortunate for the school as we have been blessed in our careers and have accumulated quite a balance sheet over my 35 year career , " the email says . <p> There is no indication that Wise based her decision on the fund-raising issues , only that these topics were raised in communications to her . A spokeswoman for Illinois said via email that the chancellor receives many suggestions about many issues . She said that she did n't know if the chancellor met with foundation officials about Salaita but said that the rationale behind the chancellor 's decision was the one she discussed in the email to the campus . <p> The emails released to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ board . An email on July 28 from the board secretary assures Chancellor Wise that some of the letters about Salaita have been forwarded to board members " so the trustees can see the depth of the matter . " <p> And an email to Wise on July 21 from Robert Easter , president of the university system ( and Wise 's boss ) , forwarded a letter complaining about Salaita that Easter had received and says : " Phyllis , we should probably discuss this matter . " <p> There is also evidence that the university was discussing , prior to Wise 's decision , the possible legal ramifications of it . The university , in explaining some of the redacted documents , invoked an exemption under Illinois law for " communications between a public body and an attorney or auditor representing the public body that would not be subject to discovery in litigation , and materials prepared or compiled by or for a public body in anticipation of a criminal , civil or administrative proceeding upon the request of an attorney advising the public body , and materials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bodies . " <p> The Chancellor and Hateful Comments on Twitter <p> Several of the letter writers noted that Chancellor Wise herself has been the subject of hateful comments on Twitter . One email said : " Chancellor , you have seen the affects of social media . Chancellor , you have been a VICTIM of social media . Chancellor , you have condoned hiring a teacher that is openly anti-Semitic . Chancellor , you are hiring a teacher that is giving his political views in an immature fashion . Chancellor , history has taught us that standing idly by while others act makes you just as guilty as those who act . " <p> In January , during a period of extreme cold and heavy snowfall , Wise did not shut the campus for a snow day , and the initial response on Twitter was not only negative , but included many racist and sexist remarks about her as an Asian-American woman . <p> At the time , Wise wrote an op-ed for Inside Higher Ed in which she expressed great concern about the tone of discourse in some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which she also said that the comments should be treated as legal . <p> " The negative comments , as offensive as they were , are protected speech , " Wise wrote . " But what is protected expression and what is the level of discourse we as educators expect from our students can be very different things . And the size of that gap -- so evident this week -- is what has been most disappointing . Racist , intimidating or culturally derogatory epithets have no place in any debate in any circumstance . Of all places , a university should be home to diverse ideas and differing perspectives , where robust -- and even intense -- debate and disagreement are welcomed . " <p> Friday 's Letters From the Chancellor and the Board <p> Wise tried to capture a similar tone in her letter to the campus on Friday . She acknowledged that many have expressed concern for her actions in the Salaita case , and said that academic freedom is a " bedrock principle " for the university . " A pre-eminent university must always be a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideas . One of our core missions is to welcome and encourage differing perspectives . Robust -- and even intense and provocative -- debate and disagreement are deeply valued and critical to the success of our university , " she wrote . <p> But Wise added that there are other responsibilities for the university faculty as well . Her comments seemed consistent with the many emails she received from people doubting Salaita could be a good instructor to people who disagree with him . <p> " A Jewish student , a Palestinian student , or any student of any faith or background must feel confident that personal views can be expressed and that philosophical disagreements with a faculty member can be debated in a civil , thoughtful and mutually respectful manner , " Wise wrote . " Most important , every student must know that every instructor recognizes and values that student as a human being . If we have lost that , we have lost much more than our standing as a world-class institution of higher education . " <p> The board and president then followed with an email @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but also explicitly called for professors to be evaluated -- in part -- based on civility . ( The American Association of University Professors has historically objected to civility as a criterion in faculty evaluations , saying that it can be used as a cover to attack those with unpopular ideas . ) <p> " In the end , the University of Illinois will never be measured simply by the number of world-changing engineers , thoughtful philosophers or great artists we produce , " the board wrote . " We also have a responsibility to develop productive citizens of our democracy . As a nation , we are only as strong as the next generation of participants in the public sphere . The University of Illinois must shape men and women who will contribute as citizens in a diverse and multi-cultural democracy . To succeed in this mission , we must constantly reinforce our expectation of a university community that values civility as much as scholarship . " <p> More Anger Over University Response <p> The university 's letters came amid considerable criticism of the way Illinois denied Salaita a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had the university gone ahead with the hire , there would have been others protesting , but they have been quieter since the decision was made . ) A few professors have pulled out of appearances at Illinois . The American Indian studies program has voted no confidence in Wise . <p> Since Wise and the Illinois board have issued their letters , anger appears to have intensified , with many arguing that the references to civility are dangerous , quite apart from what happens to Salaita . <p> John K. Wilson , author of numerous books and essays about academic freedom , wrote on the AAUP blog that he found Wise 's statement troubling . " Respect is not a fundamental value of any university , and being ' disrespectful ' is not an academic crime . But it 's notable that Salaita really did n't say anything personal about anyone . So here Wise greatly expands the concept , declaring that not only persons but ' viewpoints themselves ' must be protected from any disrespectful words , " Wilson writes . <p> " I am puzzled as to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one is allowed to be disrespectful toward any viewpoint . Presumably , Wise will quickly act to fire anyone who has ever disrespected or demeaned Nazism , terrorism , racism , sexism , and homophobia . Since all ' viewpoints ' are protected , then biology professors must be fired for disrespecting creationism as false , along with any other professor who is found to believe or know anything . " <p> Wilson is active in the Illinois state AAUP , but interest in the case and criticism is coming from academics well removed from the state . <p> Timothy Burke , a professor of history at Swarthmore College , wrote on his blog that Wise 's defense of her actions may be " more troubling " than the decision on Salaita . <p> Burke wrote that he agreed with Wise that a professor needs the ability to interact well with students and colleagues with a range of views , and that he viewed this as a legitimate criterion in hiring and promotion . But he said that Salaita and other scholars ca n't be judged in this regard based @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must not measure adherence to this standard by reading what scholars or intellectuals say or write in the public sphere , whether in formal publication or in social media , " Burke wrote . " The proof is in the pudding : in how a professor teaches , in how they participate in the professional evaluation of other scholars , in how they execute their administrative duties . There are innumerable examples of faculty in the last 50 years whose intensely expressed public views had no impact on the professionalism of their work with students and colleagues . " <p> Further , Burke said he was worried by the idea that hiring approval at the presidential and board level could now move from being pro forma to much more involved -- in a way that is difficult for a large university and could invite great scrutiny for some hires over issues outside of the professional scope of board members and presidents . <p> " So what is going to happen now if your decision stands is that what was pro forma no longer is , and not just at UIUC @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ newly revealed domain of risk and liability , will be forced to much more heavily scrutinize and micro-manage proposed job offers , with practical authority migrating upwards , " Burke wrote . " The net impact , if this develops as I suspect it will , is a bigger drain on finances , a slower and less nimble approach to making decisions , and the loss of academic freedom by transferring authority and discretion away from faculty . " <p> Burke added that there is a legitimate role for campus leaders to play if they have questions about a department 's choices . " The time to make these kinds of discretionary judgments is early , " he wrote . " If you privately feel in the aftermath of a search that an individual department is repeatedly demonstrating what you believe is a lack of diligence , that is a good reason for a quiet direct and confidential conversation between yourself and that department . There is precedent for administrative leaders ( and often colleagues ) to intervene quietly but firmly in a situation where a department is either painfully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and common expectations . But that is done carefully and confidentially for good reason , and it is not aimed at reversing a particular decision about a particular individual . That is precisely what tenure and academic freedom rightfully exist to protect . " 
@@31566281 <h> An Appointment to Reject <h> By <p> This month , my campus , the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign , was widely expected to welcome Steven Salaita as a new faculty member . He was to be a tenured professor in the American Indian studies program . But a decision not to present the appointment to the Board of Trustees was made by the chancellor . Although I was not involved in the process and did not communicate my views to the administration , I want to say why I believe the decision not to offer him a job was the right one . <p> Salaita has written credibly on fiction by Arab Americans and is , so I am told , knowledgeable about Native American studies . But Salaita 's national profile -- and the basis of his aspirations to being a public intellectual -- is entirely based on his polemical interventions in debates over the Arab/Israeli conflict . Those interventions include his 2011 book Israel 's Dead Soul , which I read last year , and his widely quoted and prolific tweeting . Israel 's Dead Soul is published by Temple University Press , so it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ precisely the same territory . This more public side of his persona would be widely available to his students ; indeed his tweets would be better-known to students than his scholarly publications . His inflammatory tweets are already being widely read . I have been following his tweets for some months because I have been writing about the Israeli/Palestinian conflict and co-editing a collection of essays titled The Case Against Academic Boycotts of Israel . I try to follow the work of all prominent pro-boycott leaders , Salaita among them . <p> Although I find many of his tweets quite loathsome -- as well as sophomoric and irresponsible -- I would defend without qualification his right to issue most of them . Academic freedom protects him from university reprisals for his extramural speech , unless he appears to be inciting violence , which one retweeted remark that a well-known American reporter wrote a story that " should have ended at the pointy end of a shiv " appears to do . His June 19 response to the kidnapping of three Israeli teenagers -- " You may be too refined to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the fucking West Bank settlers would go missing " -- also invokes a violent response to the occupation , since " go missing " refers to kidnapping . <p> But his right to make most of these statements does not mean I would choose to have him as a colleague . His tweets are the sordid underbelly , the more frank and revealing counterpart , to his more extended arguments about Middle Eastern history and the Israeli/Palestinian conflict . They are likely to shape his role on campus when 2015 's Israeli Apartheid Week rolls around . I am told he can be quite charismatic in person , so he may deploy his tweeting rhetoric at public events on campus . Faculty members are well within their rights to evaluate someone as a potential colleague and to consider what contributions a candidate might make to the campus community . It is the whole Salaita package that defines in the end the desirability and appropriateness of offering him a faculty appointment . <p> I should add that this is not an issue of academic freedom . If Salaita were a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public statements , it would be . But a campus and its faculty members have the right to consider whether , for example , a job candidate 's publications , statements to the press , social media presence , public lectures , teaching profile , and so forth suggest he or she will make a positive contribution to the department , student life , and the community as a whole . Here at Illinois , even the department head who would have appointed Salaita agreed in Inside Higher Ed that " any public statement that someone makes is fair game for consideration . " Had Salaita already signed a contract , then of course he would have to have received full due process , including a full hearing , before his prospective offer could be withdrawn . But my understanding is that he had not received a contract . <p> Salaita condenses **28;4360;TOOLONG wisdom into a continuing series of sophomoric , bombastic , or anti-Semitic tweets : " UCSCdivest passes . Mark Yudoff nervously twirls his two remaining hairs , puts in an angry call to Janet Napolitano " ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ USF call for divestment . The university dismisses it out of hand . That 's Israel-style democracy " ( May 28 , 2014 ) ; " Somebody just told me F.W. DeKlerk does n't believe Israel is an apartheid state . This is what Zionists have been reduced to " ( May 28 , 2014 ) ; " All of Israel 's hand-wringing about demography leads one to only one reasonable conclusion : Zionists are ineffective lovers " ( May 26 , 2014 ) ; " Universities are filled with faculty and admins whose primary focus is policing criticism of Israel that exceeds their stringent preferences " ( May 25 , 2014 ) ; " ' Israel army ' and ' moral code ' go together like polar bears and rainforests " ( May 25 , 2014 ) ; " Keep BDS going ! The more time Israel spends on it , the fewer resources it can devote to pillaging and plundering " ( May 23 , 2014 ) ; " So , how long will it be before the Israeli government starts dropping white phosphorous on American college campuses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Even the most tepid overture to Palestinian humanity can result in Zionist histrionics " ( May 21 , 2014 ) ; " All life is sacred . Unless you 're a Zionist , for whom most life is a mere inconvenience to ethnographic supremacy " ( May 20 , 2014 ) ; " I fully expect the Israeli soldiers who murdered two teens in cold blood to receive a commendation or promotion " ( May 20 , 2014 ) ; " Understand that whenever a Zionist frets about Palestinian violence , it is a projection of his own brute psyche " ( May 20 , 2014 ) ; " I do n't want to hear another damn word about ' nonviolence . ' Save it for Israel 's child-killing soldiers " ( May 19 , 2014 ) ; " I stopped listening at ' dialogue ' " ( May 27 , 2014 ) . The last example here presumably advises BDS students how interested they should be in conversations with people holding different views . <p> More recently he has said " if Netanyahu appeared on TV with a necklace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be surprised " ( July 19 , 2014 ) and " By eagerly conflating Jewishness and Israel , Zionists are partly responsible when people say anti-Semitic shit in response to Israeli terror " ( July 18 , 2014 ) . The following day he offered a definition : " Zionists : transforming ' anti-Semitism ' from something horrible into something honorable since 1948 " ( July 19 ) . <p> It is remarkable that a senior faculty member chooses to present himself in public this way . Meanwhile , the mix of deadly seriousness , vehemence , and low comedy in this appeal to students is genuinely unsettling . Will Jewish students in his classes feel comfortable after they read " " Let 's cut to the chase : If you 're defending Israel right now you 're an awful human being " ( July 8 ) , " Zionist uplift in America : every little Jewish boy and girl can grow up to be the leader of a murderous colonial regime " ( July 14 ) , or " No wonder Israel prefers killing Palestinians from the sky . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at ground combat ? " ( July 23 ) ? The last of these tweets obviously disparages the two young American volunteers who lost their lives fighting with the Israeli Defense Forces in Gaza . What would he say if the Arab/Israeli conflict were to come up in a class he was teaching on Arab-American fiction ? Would he welcome dissent to his views ? Would students believe him if he appeared to do so ? As Salaita says of his opposition in an accusation better applied to himself , he has found in Twitter " the perfect medium " in which to " dispense slogans in order to validate collective self-righteousness " ( May 14 , 2014 ) . <p> While universities need to study all positions on an issue , even the most outrageous ones , I see no good reason to offer a permanent faculty position to someone whose discourse crosses the line into anti-Semitism . I also do not believe this was a political decision . There are many opponents of Israeli policy on the faculty here and many faculty as well who publicly or privately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view to the chancellor that Salaita 's recent tweets -- tweets published long after the search committee made its recommendation -- justify not making the appointment , they had a right to do so . I believe this was an academic , not a political , decision . <p> Were I to have evidence to the contrary , my view would be different . I regret that the decision was not made until the summer , but then many of the most disturbing of Salaita 's tweets did not go online until the summer of 2014 , no doubt provoked by events . That is the time frame in which the statements in question were made . That alone made this an exceptional case . I do not think it would have been responsible for the university to have ignored the evolving character of his public profile . For all these reasons I agree that Salaita 's appointment is one that should not have been made . <h> Bio <p> Cary Nelson served as national president of the American Association of University Professors from 2006 to 2012 . He teaches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 
@@31568485 <h> Soleimani increased Iranian threats to Israel before death <h> What follows are some selections of operations and threats that Qasem Soleimani was involved in . <p> Iran 's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps Quds Force commander Qasem Soleimani increased Iran 's efforts to strike at Israel in the last year . In August , he oversaw the movement of " killer drones " near the Golan Heights , including a thwarted attempt to use them . <p> Israel says that he funded , coached and trained Shi'ite operatives who were supposed to carry out the drone attack on August 22 . An airstrike killed two Hezbollah operatives who were working with the drones on August 24 . Soleimani oversaw the dispatch of Quds Force members to Syria to train the group involved in the drones , and Iran sent experts to Syria to oversee the operation . <p> Soleimani was outspoken on August 26 when he said that these were the " last struggles " Iran would have with Israel . It was part of rising Iranian rhetoric threatening Israel with destruction . The head of the IRGC Hossein Salami said in September that destroying Israel was no longer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insane operations are absolutely the last struggles of the Zionist regime . " On August 28 , in the wake of those comments , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu had warned Soleimani and Hezbollah 's Hassan Nasrallah to " be careful . " <p> It is worth looking at some other recent incidents in tensions between Soleimani and Israel . Israel 's Meir Amit Intelligence and Terrorism Information Center and other studies have extensively documented Soleimani 's background . What follows are some selections of operations and threats that Soleimani was involved in . <p> Soleimani became head of the Quds Force in 1998 . The group had already been behind helping Hezbollah in attacking the Israeli embassy in Buenos Aires in 1992 . Soleimani built up relations with Hezbollah and sent IRGC agents to aid the fight against Israel until the 2000 withdrawal . Iran had a " huge presence " according to former US officials . <p> Soleimani was a key part of Iran 's support for Hezbollah during the 2006 war with Israel . He aided the group in planning the 2006 attack on IDF soldiers at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arranged Iranian support and weapons transfers to Iran that arrived through Syria and other countries in the region . In 2009 , Israel interdicted a ship carrying 3,000 rockets destined for Hezbollah . They were the same types of 107mm. rockets that Soleimani would arrange for transport to Kataib Hezbollah in Iraq to attack the US . In 2010 , the New Yorker says that he also worked with Hezbollah to strike at the US and Israel , even in attacks in Thailand , New Delhi , Lagos and Nairobi . In January 2015 , according to a study at the Combating Terrorism Center , Soleimani was seen at a memorial for Jihad Mughniyah , the son of his former friend Imad who was assassinated . <p> In February 2016 , Soleimani met with a Hamas delegation in Tehran . " The world has changed since the Arab spring , " he said . " Neither Iran nor Hamas is as it was before . " He supported an uprising among Palestinians and confronting Israel . Soleimani said that the Iran Deal had not changed Iran 's militant stance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In December 2017 Soleimani said that Iran was ready to support Palestinian groups in Gaza . It was already supporting Islamic Jihad and Hamas , but he indicated it could up its support . Hamas deputy leader Saleh al-Arouri met with Iranians in July 2019 . <p> In January 2018 , the US reportedly gave Israel a " green light " to kill Soleimani according to the Kuwaiti paper Al-Jarida . According to Al-Jarida , Israel had sought to assassinate Soleimani three years before in 2014-2015 but the US " warned the Iranian leadership of the plan . " A similar report by Marzieh Kouhi-Essfahani in a book on Iranian policy claimed in 2014 that the Obama administration pressured Israel not to target Soleimani . <p> The IRGC Quds Force commander was also behind a rocket salvo of dozens of rockets fired at Israel from Syria in May 2018 . Israel said at the time that " it was ordered and commandeered by Qasem Soleimani and it has not achieved its purposes . " The salvo came as the Syrian regime was retaking areas in southern Syria and amid tensions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had also decided to move the US embassy to Jerusalem . The Arab Weekly reported that Israel had blamed Soleimani , and that he was now in the " crosshairs " of the US and Israel . <p> Soleimani visited southern Syria and allegedly spent time there to build up Iran 's networks near Israel 's border in January 2019 . Kuwait 's Al-Jarida reported the visit . He briefed the Supreme National Security Council when he returned to Iran , and discussed Israel and Syria and Russia . <p> In late September , Soleimani gave a long interview in Iran discussing the role of the IRGC in supporting Hezbollah and working with Hassan Nasrallah and Imad Mughniyeh during the 2006 war with Israel . He noted that he had been in Lebanon at the time and that he believed Iran no longer faced the obstacles today it faced back then to supply its Lebanese ally . In September , he was also seen with Iran 's Supreme Leader next to Iraq 's Muqtada al-Sadr . <p> An article by the Begin-Sadat Center for Strategic Studies noted in November that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activities of the Iranian Quds Force . " Tensions had grown on October 28 due to Soleimani 's threats . In addition , this came just prior to Israel 's Operation Black Belt against Islamic Jihad in Gaza , a group that is sponsored by Iran . On October 1 , Soleimani had said the road was paved to destroy Israel and other Iranian regime enemies such as the US . " The barriers are no longer effective against the IRGC 's might . According to Israel Hayom , an Iranian official also said on October 4 that " Tehran had foiled a plot by Israeli and Arab intelligence agencies to assassinate Soleimani . " The complex plot , which Hossein Taeb of the IRGC claimed to reveal , involved planting explosives next to a religious ceremony Soleimani was to attend . <p> On December 23 , Iran said that airstrikes had targeted its positions in Syria including IRGC Quds Force aerospace commander Amir Ali Hajizadeh , a senior commander close to Soleimani . Soleimani was considered to have gained strength in the last year , overseeing more operations . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he was killed . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@31580776 <p> Saunders , UNRWA 's interim commissioner-general , gestures during interview with Reuters in Gaza City <p> By Nidal al-Mughrabi <p> GAZA ( Reuters ) - The interim head of the U.N . agency that aids Palestinian refugees on Thursday accused pro-Israel groups of lobbying foreign parliaments to stop donations , even as it struggled to recover from losing United States funding in 2018 . <p> Christian Saunders , in an interview with Reuters in his Gaza office , also said Israel was seeking to replace United Nations Relief and Works Agency ( UNRWA ) services for Palestinians in occupied East Jerusalem with those of its own . <p> UNRWA has faced budgetary difficulties since 2018 , when the United States , its biggest donor , halted its annual aid of $360 million . The United States and Israel have both accused UNRWA of mismanagement and anti-Israeli incitement . <p> In the interview , Saunders , now acting commissioner-general , said the inquiry by the U.N . Office of Internal Oversight Services was complete and Secretary-General Antonio Guterres had confirmed there had been no corruption or misuse of funds . <p> Saunders said the investigation had uncovered mismanagement related @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ major donors , who had withheld funding while the inquiry was under way , have resumed contributions . <p> Saunders said he felt confident UNRWA had enough money for at least the first quarter of 2020 , but he expected it to be an " even more difficult " year than last . He added that they had not given up on persuading the United States to change its mind about funding . <p> " We are engaged with the U.S. , we will continue to engage with them in the hopes that they will see UNRWA as a reliable partner and worth supporting , " Saunders said in the interview . <p> Saunders initially said that Israel and the United States were " advocating against funding UNRWA in the European parliaments and elsewhere , " but later clarified in a statement that he was referring to pro-Israel groups . He said UNRWA " had no reason to believe that the U.S. was engaged in lobbying to stop funding the agency . " <p> He said UNRWA was feeling " the pressure in East Jerusalem in particular " , saying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ institutions " to compete " with the agency and stop it from operating there . <p> " The important thing to remember here is that UNRWA has a mandate from the ( U.N. ) General Assembly , from the rest of the world , the member states , to provide services to Palestinian refugees in East Jerusalem , " Saunders said . <p> Israel considers all of Jerusalem , including the eastern part captured along the West Bank in the 1967 Middle East war , as its " indivisible capital " . Palestinians want East Jerusalem to be the capital of a state they seek to establish in the West Bank and Gaza . <p> Last month , the U.N . General Assembly renewed UNRWA 's mandate for another three years . The agency aids more than 5 million registered refugees in the West Bank , Gaza Strip and East Jerusalem , as well as in Jordan , Lebanon and Syria . 
@@31588380 <h> Incident comes after dozens of others landed in southern Israel over the last week . <p> Just days before dozens of world leaders are expected to gather in Jerusalem , a cluster of explosive balloons landed close the capital . They were dismantled by Israel Police bomb disposal experts . <p> The incident on Monday , in the area of Mesilat Tzion near the city of Beit Shemesh , caused no damage or injuries , and comes after several other clusters landed in communities in southern Israel over the weekend . <p> On Sunday , the Israeli military fired a shell toward a Hamas post along the Gaza border fence in response to the launching of an explosive balloon cluster from the blockaded coastal enclave , which had detonated over the college town of Sderot . <p> On Saturday , a cluster of incendiary balloons was found in Sderot , and on Friday , several balloons with explosive devices attached to them were found along Ashdod 's promenade . The beaches were closed off by the police until sappers had dismantled the devices to prevent danger to the public . <p> On Thursday , two clusters of explosives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with one detonating soon after it landed . There were no injuries or damage caused . Police sappers were called to a residential neighborhood in Sderot on Wednesday after a cluster of suspicious balloons was also found . <p> In response , Israeli aircraft struck several targets in the northern Strip . <p> Over the past two years , Gazans have launched countless explosive and incendiary aerial devices into southern Israel , including kites , balloons and condoms , landing on major highways , on trees , and even in playgrounds or private yards , burning tens of thousands of dunams . <p> According to figures released by the military in July , a total of 1,400 dunams were destroyed in 2019 by the simple devices , a significant decrease from 34,000 dunams burned in 2018 . The figures showed that there had also been a drop in the number of fires per day : two fires daily since the beginning of 2019 , compared to nine fires per day in 2018 . <p> At the peak there were 10 fires per day in 2018 versus 30 fires per day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 977 fires in the 2nd quarter of 2018 , the majority occurring in the month of June with 623 fires , followed by May with 301 and 53 in April . A total of 190 fires broke out in southern Israel in the first half of 2019 , again with a few in April , more in May , and about twice as many in June . <p> It took an average of five minutes for firefighters to get to the scene in 2019 compared to an average of eight minutes in 2018 . <p> When the aerial devices first started to appear in Israeli skies , the army allowed them to land , unsure what damage could come of them . But as more and more flew in and the fields and forests of southern Israel went up in flames , the IDF deployed drones to cut the cords of the kites or intercept the balloons . <p> Several other civilian systems , such as the SMASH 2000 system , were also deployed to troops along the border fence to intercept the aerial devices . SMASH gives troops a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ algorithms that can track and hit drones flying at high speed -- at ranges of up to 120 meters -- with the first shot . <p> At the height of the trend of balloon terrorism , the IDF called up reservists in the Homefront Command to battle the blazes alongside civilian firefighters . <p> The military has fired warning shots by unmanned aerial vehicles toward groups of Palestinians preparing the incendiary devices , in an attempt to deter them from being launched . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@31588382 <p> Indeed , if recent polls are accurate , several small parties on the Right , most of which may not individually pass the minimum threshold to make it into the next Knesset , could nonetheless win a combined total of 10 to 12 seats , all of which would end up in the dustbin if they fail to run together . <p> If steps are not taken to prevent this , the outcome could very well be a center-left coalition that strives to return Israel to the dark days of Oslo through dangerous concessions to the Palestinians . <p> It is therefore imperative that pressure be brought to bear on the right-wing parties to put aside their differences and their egos and to coalesce into a united front . Nothing less than the future of the country is at stake . <p> To a certain degree , the plethora of parties on the Right can be seen as a sign of intellectual and ideological vigor . Moshe Feiglin 's Zehut Party , which held the first open primaries in Israeli history , offers voters a fresh blend of libertarianism , Zionist pride and privatization , although it does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contentious issue . While one survey last week showed the party earning enough votes to enter the Knesset , most show it falling short . <p> Then there is Yahad , headed by former Shas head Eli Yishai , which appeals largely to Sephardi haredim with a right-wing bent on territorial issues . In the previous elections , when Yahad ran together with Baruch Marzel 's Otzma Yehudit , they did not pass the minimum electoral threshold , and the three-and-and-a-half seats they won went down the drain . <p> Currently , Yahad and Otzma Yehudit have yet to join forces , and polls show the former winning one seat with the latter garnering possibly two or three , which is not enough to make it into the next Knesset . <p> Then there is the Bayit Yehudi , which suffered a major blow when party leaders Nafatali Bennett and Ayelet Shaked broke away to form the New Right . Bayit Yehudi , which just elected former IDF chief Rabbi Rafi Peretz as its new chairman , is also hovering at or below the electoral threshold , as is Avigdor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . <p> The National Union , which has championed Jewish settlement in Judea and Samaria and is now headed by Bezalel Smotrich , ran together with the Bayit Yehudi in the outgoing Knesset , but the two factions have yet to indicate formally whether they will do so again in the April 9 balloting . <p> Needless to say , it would be naive to think that the matter of ego is not at work amid this dizzying array of parties , which also explains why the Right is so splintered . <p> But the main problem is that while it is healthy for public discourse when the marketplace of ideas on the Right is robust , the realities of electoral politics leave little room for such division . After all , there is plenty of room outside the Knesset to debate the finer points of right-wing ideology , but within the chambers of Israel 's parliament there is a finite number of seats . <p> IT IS precisely the concern that many right-wing votes may end up being wasted that led Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu to issue a statement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the National Union and Otzma Yehudit , so that the right-wing bloc will not lose seats . " The failure to do so , he warned , " could result in the formation of a leftist government . " <p> Netanyahu is absolutely correct on this point . Were the various factions on the Right to unite , it would almost guarantee that the next government will be one that is faithful to the Land of Israel . The Left is in complete disarray , with both Labor and Meretz sinking in the polls , as the center parties led by Benny Gantz and Yair Lapid have siphoned off disgruntled voters . <p> Even with the threat of an indictment hovering over him , Netanyahu is well positioned to form the next governing coalition , if the parties to the right of the Likud can get their act together , both literally and figuratively . A joint list consisting of Bayit Yehudi , the National Union , Otzma Yehudit and Yahad could easily add seven to eight seats to the Right 's representation in parliament , which would give Netanyahu @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coalition . <p> Given the challenges that the country faces , amid mounting tensions in Gaza , chilling threats from Tehran and Hezbollah 's formal entry into Lebanon 's government , it is essential that the next Israeli government have the backbone to defend the nation 's interests . <p> The Hebrew word for a political party , " miflaga , " comes from the root " lefaleg , " which means " to divide . " It is time for the Right to overcome this inherently destructive trait of modern-day politics and come together for the sake of us all . <p> Simply put , the future of the Land of Israel is at stake . All the rest is commentary . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@31605683 <p> A Palestinian youth in Gaza prepares Molotov cocktails attached to balloons to set fire to Israeli land , May 31 , 2019 . ( Hassan Jedi/Flash90 ) <p> The Palestinian Authority 's official newspaper called for violence against Israelis in an effort to disrupt the World Holocaust Forum being held this week in Jerusalem . <p> A columnist for Al-Hayat Al-Jadida , in an article over the weekend , said that Israel was planning a ceremony to memorialize Jews killed in Europe even as " the Palestinian holocaust by Israel " is ignored . <p> " One shot will disrupt the ceremony and one dead body will cancel the ceremony , " Yahya Rabah wrote in an article published Saturday , according to Palestinian Media Watch . <p> In a statement , the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations condemned the article , saying : " Such a call for violence can never be justified , but it is especially repugnant for the PA to incite terrorism deliberately aimed at disrupting an occasion as solemn and significant as this . " <p> The statement noted that the day the article was published , a teenage Palestinian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Israel 's Channel 13 television reported that the Israeli military said it would launch airstrikes in response to any attacks , even if international dignitaries are in the country . <p> On Tuesday , Hamas praised the launches in recent days of incendiary balloons at Israel and threatened more . Several were discovered in recent days in southern Israel . One with a working homemade explosive attached landed in Beit Shemesh , located about 13 miles west of Jerusalem . No injury or property damage was reported . <p> By signing up , you agree to our terms You hereby accept the Jewish Standard Terms of Use and Privacy Policy , and you agree to receive the latest news &amp; offers from the Jewish Standard and its partners or ad sponsors . 
@@31605980 <h> Will Donald Trump 's Deal of the Century succeed where others have failed ? <h> Trump 's message to both : " You have six weeks to get this plan going , if you want it , " <p> By MARK WEISS <p> JANUARY 28 , 2020 12:36 <p> US President Donald Trump addresses a gathering of mayors in the East Room of the White House on January 24 <p> ( photo credit : REUTERS ) <p> The impact of President Donald Trump 's dramatic decision in late January to unveil the US Middle East peace plan remains to be seen , but it succeeded overnight in changing the focus of the Israeli election campaign . <p> Out went the incessant talk surrounding Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's bid to receive Knesset immunity ahead of his corruption trial , replaced by analysis of the US plan and the possibility of Netanyahu 's outgoing caretaker government extending sovereignty to West Bank settlements and annexation of the Jordan Valley . <p> Both the prime minister and Blue and White leader Benny Gantz flew to Washington for separate talks with Trump before the details of the long-awaited peace plan , dubbed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A US official quoted by Reuters said Trump wanted to know that both Netanyahu and Gantz were on board with the plan before announcing it . <p> Trump 's message to both : " You have six weeks to get this plan going , if you want it , " the official told Reuters . <p> Before departing for Washington , Netanyahu declared his intention to make history , declaring that the peace plan was a historic opportunity that Israel can not miss . <p> " We have the best friend Israel has ever had in the White House , and therefore , we have the best opportunity we ever had , " Netanyahu said . <p> The prime minister said he had been talking about the plan for three years with members of the US team who had drafted the document , stressing Israel 's vital security needs that should be taken into account . <p> " I found that the White House was willing to listen to those needs . Therefore , I am full of hope that we are before a historic moment in the history of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ official said the decision to hold discussions with both Netanyahu and Gantz was aimed at defusing any suggestion that Trump might be favoring one Israeli candidate over another ahead of Israel 's March 2 elections . <p> For his part , Gantz welcomed the outlines of the peace plan but warned of difficulties ahead . <p> " The proposal is destined to create large and painful internal disagreements among us . I pledge to reduce the disagreement to the minimum , but to act so that the plan can be the basis for progress towards an agreed-to arrangement with the Palestinians and with countries in the region , along with continued and deeper strategic partnership with Jordan , Egypt and other countries in the region , " Gantz said . " I can say that the Deal of the Century that was conceived of by President Trump will be recorded in the annals of history as a significant milestone that defines the path down which the various parties to the conflict in the Middle East can walk to an historic regional agreement . " <p> Gantz stressed that immediately after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in order to lead , from up close , the discussions on removing Benjamin Netanyahu 's immunity . " <p> The peace plan was drawn up by Donald Trump 's former special envoy Jason Greenblatt , Jared Kushner , the president 's son-in-law and US Ambassador to Israel , David Friedman . <p> Ahead of the release of details of the plan , Israeli media called it " the most generous offer " ever made to Israel . It will reportedly allow Israel to extend sovereignty to Jewish settlements and to annex the strategically important Jordan Valley and northern Dead Sea , comprising about 30 percent of the entire West Bank . <p> Yisrael Beytenu leader Avigdor Liberman said , sardonically , that the prime minister was n't traveling to the US but was " running away . " He noted that the day the plan was due to be unveiled was the same day scheduled for the start of Knesset deliberations on removing Netanyahu 's immunity , and the timing was no coincidence . <p> " To unveil such a plan five weeks before an election is very suspicious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it will prevent any serious , in-depth discussion of the proposal . " And in a peace plan , he added , " every word and every line counts . " <p> Defense Minister Naftali Bennett urged the interim government to act quickly and approve in early February a plan to extend Israeli sovereignty to settlements in the West Bank . <p> " The most important mission is to apply sovereignty , " Bennett told a press conference held in the West Bank settlement of Ariel . " Annex , we 'll support . Do n't annex -- we 'll oppose . If this whole event ends without applying sovereignty now , before the elections , with the American tailwind , then this wo n't be the Deal of the Century , but the missed opportunity of the century . " <p> The Palestinians made it clear that the Trump administration proposals were a non-starter as far as they are concerned . Relations between the Palestinians and Washington hit rock bottom when Trump recognized Jerusalem as Israel 's capital at the end of 2017 and moved the US Embassy to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said that European and Arab states have pledged not to support the US plan . The Palestinian officials stressed that the US peace initiative had no value without international recognition and was an invalid agreement between two friends -- the United States and Israel . <p> Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas warned Israel and the US not to cross any " red lines . " Abbas 's spokesman , Nabil Abu Rudeineh , suggested the Palestinians could dissolve the PA . <p> " The leadership will hold a series of meetings on all levels -- including the factions and organizations -- to announce its total rejection of conceding Jerusalem , " he said . <p> Calling for a series of protests to foil the " Zionist-American conspiracy , " Palestinian officials warned that the peace plan would spark a new wave of mass protests in the West Bank and Gaza Strip . <p> PLO Secretary-General Saeb Erekat said what the Trump administration has done so far and the full partnership with Netanyahu will enter history as the ' fraud of the century ' against international law , UN resolutions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " <p> Hamas spokesman Fawzi Barhoum denounced the plan as a " Zionist-American plot to liquidate the Palestinian issue . " He called on the Palestinian Authority leadership to respond with a series of measures , including halting security coordination with Israel in the West Bank . <p> Jordan also made clear its opposition to the plan . " Our position regarding the plan is very clear : We are opposed to it , " said Jordan 's King Abdullah II . <p> Jordanian Foreign Minister Ayman Safadi warned that Israeli annexation of the Jordan Valley would spell the death of the two-state solution and terminate all opportunities to achieve peace with the Palestinians . <p> Despite the fanfare surrounding the launch of the peace plan it was clear , in the short term at least , that a genuine dialogue between Israel and the Palestinians aimed at ending the conflict remains a pipedream . <p> According to Israeli sources , the Trump administration will not allow the sides to pick and choose elements of the peace plan -- it 's all or nothing . Washington will support and encourage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ side that refuses to do so is liable to pay a high price . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@31605983 <h> The NGO dealing with the PTSD of the Gaza border communities <h> Israelis living closest to Gaza have just 15 seconds to get themselves and their families to a safe room . Doing this repeatedly increases stress levels among almost everyone living there . <p> By LINDA GRADSTEIN <p> JANUARY 28 , 2020 14:00 <p> Schoolchildren learn ways of calming themselves during rocket attacks <p> ( photo credit : REBECCA KOWALSKI ) <p> Yaffa Agadi will never forget the day last May when Palestinian gunmen in Gaza fired dozens of Qassam rockets at southern Israel . The " red alert " siren blared over and over near her home in Ashkelon , sending all of them running into the safe room . Yaffa 's husband Moshe went outside to smoke a quick cigarette in what he thought was a break between rocket attacks . As he was standing outside , a rocket landed very close to him , and shrapnel hit him , killing him instantly . <p> " I have no life , I ca n't sleep , I saw my husband die in front of me , " his widow Yaffa said in a scratchy voice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up and tried to save him , but he died . " <p> I met Yaffa at a fundraiser for Operation Embrace , an organization that provides services for Israelis and their families who were killed and wounded in terror attacks . These include paying for psychological counseling , tutoring , equine therapy and twice-yearly weekends in hotels for family members . <p> Yaffa told me that her 13-year-old daughter , the youngest of four , has been depressed since her father died . It was the first funeral her daughter attended . Every time there is the noise of a rocket attack or even a car backfiring , she starts crying and yelling , " a rocket , a rocket . " These are classic symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder , says Michal Feldstein , the social worker for Operation Embrace . <p> Yaffa says that immediately after the rocket attack government representatives came to visit her and said they would help her any way they could . But those promises were empty . <p> " I feel like everyone has forgotten me , " she said . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " She was referring to Feldstein . <p> Feldstein says that a large proportion of children near Gaza who have lived with rocket attacks for years show symptoms of PTSD . These include sleep problems , always feeling they need to be ready for an attack , nightmares , bed-wetting and angry outbursts . <p> While physical trauma will heal , she said , emotional trauma needs to be treated or it will fester . She herself lives on Kibbutz Mefalsim just a few kilometers from Gaza , so she knows what her clients are going through . <p> Operation Embrace was started by Rabbi Joel and Aviva Tessler in 2001 in Potomac , Maryland , where Joel was a rabbi for many years . Aviva recently organized a benefit to raise money for the organization . A surprise guest was US Ambassador to Israel David Friedman . <p> " The goal of the evening is to bring greater awareness to the real people who have endured so much suffering and trauma and yet cling to life , " she said . " Part of PTSD is this feeling of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anymore . The hope is we can continue to grow the awareness within Israel . " <p> The annual budget is $350,000 and over the 18 years they have raised $3.5 million . She estimates they 've helped about 10,000 people . <p> One , she said , was a young girl who was severely injured in a rocket attack and spent several weeks in a coma . She recovered but had permanent hearing loss . The National Insurance Institute ( NII ) offered her hearing aids , but she wanted to become a lawyer and needed very expensive hearing aids that would filter out all of the background noise to help her understand her lectures in class . Operation Embrace provided the hearing aids and today the young woman is a lawyer . <p> Another organization helping the younger crowd in southern Israel is Connections and Links : From Trauma to Resilience . The organization aims to train teachers in a combination of movement therapy , somatic experience and mind-body therapy . Co-founder Judith Spanglet says it is a focused way of treating trauma and building resilience . <p> @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neuropsychology to work with different parts of the brain , " Spanglet said . " For example , there is a part of the brain which reacts to a threat and automatically goes into flight or fight response . At the time of a threat , the part of the brain in charge of emotions has less energy . " <p> Most people , she said , can return to normal after repeated stressful events like rocket attacks . But about one-third will require therapy , which many Israelis are afraid to admit they need . <p> In addition , she said , many of the therapists making house calls in the middle of a war live in the affected areas , and are themselves worried about their own families as they are trying to treat others . <p> They have published a children 's book called Treasures of the Winning Couple , featuring Mr. Body and Ms. Awareness who together find a way to increase resilience . They also have a new emergency kit with a series of cards and equipment . <p> On one side of each card @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . On the other is a suggested activity using equipment provided such as a rubber ball or a scarf with activities that promote relaxation . The kit is meant to help teachers or even parents dealing with frequent rocket attacks . <p> Israelis living closest to Gaza have just 15 seconds to get themselves and their families to a safe room . Doing this repeatedly increases stress levels among almost everyone living there . <p> " Children have learned that when I am outside my comfort zone there are tools I can use to get back in , " she said . " It does n't matter whether it 's a rocket attack or another kid taking a ball . Children learn how to understand their own nervous system and help themselves . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@31606886 <p> Palestinian leaders have already rejected the plan which they decried as an attempt by the US and Israel to " finish off the Palestinian cause " . <p> In a rare show of unity , leaders from Hamas , who govern Gaza , were invited to an emergency meeting held by Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas in the West Bank city of Ramallah . <p> " When we are united , neither Netanyahu nor Trump dares to take away our rights , " said senior Hamas official Khalil al-Hayya . <p> Palestinians take part in a protest against Trump 's Middle East plan in Gaza Ibraheem Abu Mustafa/Reuters <p> Meanwhile , Husam Zomlot , head of the Palestinian mission to the United Kingdom , described the plan as " political theatre " . <p> " It is not a peace deal . It is the ' bantustan-isation ' of the people of Palestine and the land of Palestine . We will be turned into bantustans , " Zomlot was quoted as saying by Reuters News Agency , referring to the nominally independent black enclaves in apartheid-era South Africa . <p> " January 28 , 2020 , will mark the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Israel to implement a full-fledged apartheid system , " he said . <p> Palestinians fear Trump 's blueprint will dash their hopes for an independent state in the occupied West Bank , Gaza and East Jerusalem - areas Israel captured in the 1967 Middle East War - by permitting Israel to annexe large chunks of occupied land including blocs of Jewish settlements . <p> " They Palestinians have not been consulted , they have n't been spoken to and they certainly do n't agree with the leaks and all the speculation of what is in the plan , " said Al Jazeera 's Stefanie Dekker , reporting from Gaza . <p> " Many people we spoke to say it 's more about the West Bank and the annexation of the capital East Jerusalem . " 
@@83009380 <h> The countdown ended with the words , " The end of the era of Netanyahu . The Likud does n't count you ! We 'll put an end to that ! " followed by the party 's logo and slogan " people before everything . " <p> Young Labor displays New Years countdown to end of the ' age of Netanyahu , ' Jan. 1 , 2020 ( Credit : Labor-Gesher Party Spokesperson ) <p> Labor 's youth wing welcomed in the New Year by projecting a countdown to the end of the ' era of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu ' on the walls of the Likud Party offices in Tel Aviv on Tuesday night . <p> The video displayed various complaints against Netanyahu before each number , including bribery , fraud , breach of trust , giving up on the Gaza border communities , abandoning healthcare and education , the submarine case ( Case 3000 ) , the Bezek case ( Case 4000 ) and gifts from friends ( a reference to Case 1000 ) . <p> The countdown ended with the words , " The end of the era of Netanyahu . The Likud does n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ! " followed by the party 's logo and slogan " people before everything . " <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@83136277 <p> In the halls of the United Nations , they 're calling it a " database , " but it 's more commonly and accurately known as a " blacklist . " It 's a list of more than 100 companies conducting business activities with Jewish communities and Israeli enterprises in the West Bank that was published , a good ... <p> JERUSALEM ( JTA ) -- President Donald Trump 's special representative for international negotiations met in Jerusalem with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to discuss the White House 's Israel-Palestinian peace plan , JTA has learned . <p> The meeting between Avi Berkowitz and Netanyahu was held on Monday , a person familiar with the meeting told the Jewish Telegraphic Agency . U.S. Ambassador to Israel David Friedman also was present at the meeting . <p> Berkowitz succeeded Jason Greenblatt , Trump 's top Middle East peace negotiator , in November . It is his first visit to Israel since taking over . <p> Last summer , the Trump administration rolled out the economic portion of its peace plan , which relied heavily on regional Arab businessmen investing in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip . Palestinian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials were not invited to attend . <p> The rest of the plan had been scheduled to be released shortly after , but Israel 's series of national elections has delayed the roll out . 
@@83202481 <h> Cabinet prepares for anti-Israel actions by the Hague <p> Israeli officials could be arrested in Europe without knowing a warrant has been issued for promoting building in Jerusalem , Yesha . <p> Arutz Sheva Staff , 12/01/20 09:33 <p> The Hague <p> Reuters <p> Serious scenarios were presented to the Cabinet ministers for the day after a decision that may be made in the Hague Tribunal to investigate Israelis . One of the scenarios is the release of arrest warrants against Israelis suspected by the International Criminal Court of acts contrary to international law , Yisrael Hayom reported . <p> According to the report , the professionals emphasized that the risks are immediate , because the opening of the investigation - a step that may occur within 90 days - will have very serious implications for Israel . <p> The scenarios presented by the professionals pertained to any senior Israeli official who was involved in the construction of homes for Jews in eastern Jerusalem , Judea and Samaria . Such officials may be in danger of arrest and not know it . <p> The newspaper noted that this means that Israeli officials who visit the tribunal 's member @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Hague Tribunal , even without knowing that an arrest warrant has been issued against them . These include the heads of state , IDF commanders , officers and soldiers who fought during or after Operation Protective Edge , and those who participated in curbing riots initiated by the Hamas terrorist organization initiated by the Gaza border fence . <p> It should be noted that apart from the US and Russia , the vast majority of the world 's most important countries are members of the tribunal , including all Western European , Canadian , Australian , Latin American and most African countries . <p> The ministers were also presented with different ways of dealing with the various threats . 
@@83285684 <p> Qumsiyeh , an expert in biodiversity and climate change , will give the Shafer Lecture of Promoting Enduring Peace . He is director of the Palestinian Museum of Natural History and Institute for Biodiversity and Sustainability in Bethlehem on the occupied West Bank , which he founded in 2017 . He is former director of the Cytogenetics Department at Yale University . <p> Author of several books , including " Sharing the Land of Canaan " and " Popular Resistance in Palestine , " Qumsiyeh has spoken widely about Palestinian rights , biodiversity and climate change <p> Yousef Aljamal , a Palestinian writer from Gaza , also will speak . He is co-author of " Gaza Writes Back : Short Stories of Young Palestinian Writers . " <p> The Palestine Museum US is located at 1764 Litchfield Turnpike . Admission for the lecture will be at a reduced price of $4. 
@@83408976 <h> Balloon Bombs Land in Ashdod , Gaza Border <p> Balloons attached to explosive charges launched by terrorists from the Gaza Strip on Thursday landed at several locations in Israel 's south , the seventh consecutive day that Israel has been contending with this threat . <p> IDF soldiers operating in the area of the border with Gaza found and neutralized an explosive charge that was planted inside a soccer ball connected to a balloon . <p> Advertisement <p> In the city of Ashdod , a booby-trapped balloon landed near a shopping mall . A police sapper alerted to the site successfully dismantled the explosive charge . <p> No one was injured and no damage was caused by the attacks . <p> The IDF has not responded to any of the attacks in recent days . <p> The explosive and flammable balloon attacks have returned to haunt Israel 's residents in the south in the past week after several months in which such attacks from Gaza ceased . <p> The explosive devices are upgraded and are equipped with elements to increase casualties among the civilian population . 
@@83458776 <h> Israel strikes Gaza in response to rocket fire &amp; balloon launches <p> Israeli forces are striking Hamas targets in Gaza for a second day , responding to projectile launches from there . It comes as PM Benjamin Netanyahu is touting the peace " deal of the century , " already rejected by the Palestinians . <p> Israeli military struck a " Hamas military post " on Sunday , stating that the attack came in response to " rocket and explosive balloons " launches from the Palestinian enclave . Earlier in the day , Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) said that a single rocket was fired from the Strip into Israel . <p> In response to the rocket and explosive balloons launched from #Gaza at #Israel , we just struck a Hamas military post in Gaza . <p> Air strikes under the same pretext were also carried out by the IDF on Saturday , when its aircraft targeted a " weapons production site and a military compound , " belonging to the Hamas militant group . Over the past few weeks , Israeli media repeatedly reported rockets , as well as explosive and incendiary balloons , being launched @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gaza comes as Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu and his political arch-rival Benny Gantz are about to meet US President Donald Trump , who is set to finally unveil his ' deal of the century ' " peace plan " for Israel and Palestine . The plan has been overwhelmingly rejected in advance by the Palestinians -- as well as by other Arab nations -- and no Palestinian representative was invited to the upcoming event in order to , apparently , avoid spoiling it . <p> Both Netanyahu and Gantz -- who are now heading into the country 's third general election , having failed to form a government after two inconclusive votes -- did their best to praise Trump 's deal and thank him for his friendship and his invitation to the event . <p> Netanyahu said that an " opportunity like this comes once in history and can not be missed , " while calling Trump " the greatest friend that Israel has ever had . " Gantz , for his part , said that " the United States can always count on Israel 's partnership , " while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invitation " as the leader of the largest party in Israel . " 
@@83527076 <h> Dutch court not competent to hear war crimes case against Israel 's Gantz <p> 3 Min Read <p> THE HAGUE ( Reuters ) - A Dutch district court on Wednesday threw out a case alleging war crimes against former Israeli Armed Forces chief Benny Gantz brought by a Dutch Palestinian who lost six relatives in an Israeli air strike on Gaza in 2014 , saying it did not have jurisdiction . <p> FILE PHOTO : Israel 's centrist party leader Benny Gantz arrives on a flight via Zurich ahead of his meeting with U.S. President Donald Trump , at Dulles International Airport near Washington , U.S. January 26 , 2020 . REUTERS/Joshua Lott <p> The civil case for damages was filed referring to universal jurisdiction rules by claimant Ismail Ziada . <p> Judicial authorities in countries that recognize universal jurisdiction for serious offences such as war crimes and torture can investigate and prosecute those crimes no matter where they were committed . <p> " A Dutch judge is not competent to rule on the case of the claimant , " presiding Judge Larisa Alwin said , explaining that universal jurisdiction could be applied for individual criminal responsibility but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in national courts , Gantz enjoys immunity from prosecution due to his government function at the time of the alleged crimes , Alwin said . <p> A career soldier , Gantz was chief of staff of the Israeli armed forces from 2011 until his retirement in 2015 . He was commander during the 2014 war against Palestinian militants in Palestinian-run Gaza , when the incident took place . <p> About 2,200 Palestinians are estimated to have been killed , up to 1,500 of them civilians during the conflict . On the Israeli side , 67 soldiers were killed and five civilians . <p> During the June 2014 air strike that Ziada was trying to claim damages for , his family 's home in the Gaza strip was bombed . He lost his mother , three brothers , a sister-in-law and his 12-year old nephew in the blast . <p> Besides Gantz , he also sought the possibility of getting damages from the former commander of the Israeli air force , Amir Eshel . <p> Ziada told reporters he was very disappointed with the verdict but said he would fight on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that and then the only opportunity to get justice is denied . This is unacceptable to me , " he said . <p> He is expected to appeal but said he would study the ruling before making a final decision . <p> Gantz is the main rival facing Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in an election in Israel on March 2 , Israel 's third in less than a year after inconclusive ballots in April and September . 
