<p> On October 6 , 2023 , Brett McGurk believed that a Middle East peace deal was within reach -- that the Biden administration just might succeed where every administration before it had failed . <p> McGurk , the White House coordinator for the Middle East and North Africa , was meeting in his office with a group of Saudi diplomats , drawing up a blueprint for a Palestinian state . It was the centerpiece of a grand bargain : In exchange for a Palestinian state , Saudi Arabia would normalize diplomatic relations with Israel . At a moment when Israel was growing internationally isolated , the nation that styled itself the leader of the Muslim world would embrace it . <p> The officials were there to begin hammering out the necessary details . The Saudis had assigned experts to redesign Palestine 's electrical grid and welfare system . The plan also laid out steps that the Palestinian Authority in the West Bank would need to take to expunge corruption from its administrative apparatus . <p> At approximately 11 p.m. , several hours after the meeting adjourned , the whole vision abruptly shattered . McGurk received a text from Israel 's ambassador to the United States , Michael Herzog . " Israel is under attack , " Herzog wrote . McGurk quickly responded , " We are with you . " <p> Just after nine the next morning , Secretary of State Antony Blinken arrived at the White House . Blinken had planned to travel to Saudi Arabia that week to further flesh out the vision for a Palestinian state with the crown prince , Mohammed bin Salman . Now Blinken stepped into the Oval Office with McGurk to brief President Joe Biden about Hamas 's attack on southern Israel . <p> They could n't present Biden with a full picture ; the Israeli Defense Forces were still fighting battles with Hamas across the south . The president had a simple question : " How much worse is it going to get ? " <p> As video footage capturing Hamas 's rampage began to emerge , aides showed it to Biden . He absorbed an account of Israeli children murdered in front of their parents . " This is on a different level of savagery , " he told McGurk . <p> When Biden spoke by phone with Benjamin Netanyahu , the Israeli prime minister sounded shaken . Netanyahu told Biden that Hamas 's invasion might be a prelude to an apocalyptic assault on the Jewish state , emerging from every direction . " In the Middle East , if you 're seen as weak , you 're roadkill , " Netanyahu said . " You can not be seen as weak . And we need to respond to this , and we need the U.S. to be with us . If not , all of our enemies are going to be coming after us . " <p> Biden 's response to Netanyahu was , in essence , what McGurk had texted Herzog : We 're with you . But the administration assigned itself a larger mission than full-throated solidarity in the aftermath of the attack . It wanted to avert a regional war that might ensnare the United States . It aspired to broker an end to the conflict , and to liberate the estimated 251 hostages that Hamas had kidnapped and taken to the Gaza Strip . It sought a Gaza free from Hamas 's rule , and the dismantlement of the group 's military capabilities . And despite the scale of those tasks , it accelerated its pursuit of the Saudi normalization deal . <p> What follows is a history of those efforts : a reconstruction of 11 months of earnest , energetic diplomacy , based on interviews with two dozen participants at the highest levels of government , both in America and across the Middle East . The administration faced an impossible situation , and for nearly a year , it has somehow managed to forestall a regional expansion of the war . But it has yet to find a way to release the hostages , bring the fighting to a halt , or put a broader peace process back on track . That makes this history an anatomy of a failure -- the story of an overextended superpower and its aging president , unable to exert themselves decisively in a moment of crisis . <h> I. <h> The Bear Trap <p> October 11 Above all else , Joe Biden -- who could remember the dawn of the atomic age , when schoolkids practiced hiding under their desk -- feared escalation . When presented with the chance to send more potent arms to Ukraine , he would ask , " Will this increase the likelihood of nuclear war ? " And four days after the Hamas attack , it seemed as if his abiding fear of a crisis spinning out of control was about to be realized . <p> At 7:48 a.m. , Biden 's national security adviser , Jake Sullivan , received a call from Tel Aviv . A trio of Netanyahu 's top national security advisers -- Defense Minister Yoav Gallant , Minister of Strategic Affairs Ron Dermer , and National Security Adviser Tzachi Hanegbi -- told Sullivan they were convinced that Hezbollah was about to launch a war on Israel from Lebanon . And they said their cabinet preferred to initiate the war preemptively . <p> Since October 8 , Hezbollah , an Iranian proxy committed to Israel 's destruction , had been firing rockets at northern Israel , in a display of solidarity with Hamas . Hamas 's invasion had caught Hezbollah and its longtime leader , Hassan Nasrallah , by surprise . Nasrallah , who had envisioned leading his own invasion of Israel , was irked that Hamas had moved first , and annoyed that it had failed to give him the courtesy of a warning . <p> Hezbollah 's initial salvos seemed calibrated to assure Israel that it did n't want a full-blown conflict . But now Israel could see Hezbollah units mobilizing just across the border . The Iranian-backed militia had begun using tactical radios , a telltale sign that it was preparing for war . <p> At 9:55 a.m. , Biden called Netanyahu to talk through the potential ramifications of a preemptive attack on Hezbollah . Biden understood that the Israeli leadership , having failed to avert the last attack on the homeland , was panicked at the prospect of missing another . He told the prime minister : " If you launch this attack , you 're guaranteeing a major Middle East war . If you do n't , there 's a lot we can do to deter that . If Hezbollah attacks , I 'm with you all the way . If you start the attack , that 's a much different picture . Let 's take our time . " <p> Just as the president began his call , McGurk received a message via a back channel that he used to communicate with the Iranians . They wanted the White House to know that they opposed Hezbollah 's entry into the war and were trying to calm tensions . Iran might have been lying , but Sullivan passed the message along to Dermer , hoping to persuade the Israeli cabinet to delay a preemptive strike . <p> Right when the administration felt as if its arguments had broken through , Sullivan stepped out of the Oval Office to take another call from Dermer . Hezbollah militants , Dermer told him , had drifted across the border in paragliders just as Hamas had done four days earlier ; its gunmen had opened fire on a funeral . These reports , Dermer said , had tipped the cabinet debate in favor of attacking . <p> Sullivan called CIA Director William Burns and General Erik Kurilla , the head of U.S. Central Command , which oversees U.S. military operations across the greater Middle East . Neither could corroborate the reports of paragliders entering Israeli territory . <p> Sullivan scrambled to get Dermer on the phone , but could n't reach him . He managed to track down Dermer 's chief of staff , who said his boss was locked in a cabinet meeting . Sullivan dictated a short note to Dermer : You 're not making rational decisions . You 're acting in the fog of war on the basis of bad intelligence . <p> Forty-five minutes after Sullivan 's note , Dermer called to tell him that the cabinet would heed Biden 's advice ; it had voted against striking Hezbollah . The Israelis had determined that no militants were paragliding into the country . By the narrowest of margins , Israel avoided going to war because of a failure to distinguish Hezbollah fighters from a flock of birds . <p> October 13 Israeli Defense Minister Yoav Gallant , who had argued vociferously for a preemptive attack on Hezbollah , was peeved that the Americans had pressured Israel to wait . Now it was U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin 's job to wrap his arms around his distraught counterpart . The Biden administration was trying to smother Israel with reassurance so that it could nudge Israeli policy makers in its preferred direction . <p> The administration believed that the Israelis were on the brink of executing a brutal , poorly conceived war plan in Gaza . In fact , it was barely a plan . On October 7 , the IDF did n't have the schematics for a ground invasion of Gaza on the shelf . <p> In the dazed aftermath of the massacre , the army had quickly cobbled one together . American officials considered the proposed assault to be intolerably blunt : a brief warning to evacuate , followed by bombardment , followed by 30,000 troops barreling into Gaza . <p> As Austin and Gallant met in the Kirya , the sprawling campus in Tel Aviv that houses the Ministry of Defense , the American tried to gently , and Socratically , express his skepticism . Austin believed that he and Gallant were talking soldier to soldier , so he described the hard lessons he 'd learned while overseeing the battle of Mosul in the war against the Islamic State : " You 've got to take into account how you 're going to address civilians . " <p> He also urged Gallant to consider how allocating so much of the IDF 's resources to Gaza would create a vulnerability that Hezbollah might exploit . <p> Austin kept pressing , " How does this end ? " <p> There was no clear answer . <p> After his own consoling visit to Tel Aviv , Antony Blinken sprinted across the capitals of the Middle East . In Doha , where the political leadership of Hamas resided in luxurious exile , Blinken arrived to tell the emir of Qatar , Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani , that the U.S. wanted him to consider evicting Hamas from his country . <p> But the emir had a complaint of his own : " We 've been talking to Hamas , and Hamas is ready to release some of the hostages . " In return , Hamas wanted Israel to pause the air strikes that had been pounding Gaza . " We 've been trying to talk to the Israelis , " the emir said . " We ca n't get anyone to focus on it . " <p> The problem , as the emir explained it , was that Hamas had succeeded beyond its most extravagant expectations on October 7 , not simply murdering more Jews than it anticipated , but seizing more hostages than it could manage . <p> In his diplomatic deadpan , Blinken replied , " I will follow up on this . " But some of his aides were gobsmacked . They could n't believe that Israel would pass up an opportunity to rescue women and children kidnapped into Gaza . As soon as Blinken boarded his plane , he called Dermer . <p> Dermer said that he would get to work on it . But throughout October , Biden-administration officials kept finding themselves struck by the Israeli government 's unwillingness to explore hostage negotiations . Perhaps it was just the chaos that reigned in the aftermath of the attacks , but they began to feel as if there was a stark difference in outlook : Where the Americans were prepared to negotiate with Hamas , the Israelis wanted to obliterate it . Where the Americans worried about hostages dying in captivity , Israel retained confidence in its ability to stage daring rescues . <p> The Americans believed that the threat of invasion gave the Israelis leverage over Hamas . The best chance at extricating women and children from the tunnels of Gaza , they thought , was before the IDF began a ground operation -- a fleeting opportunity that might never come again . <p> Secretary of State Antony Blinken arrives in Israel on October 16 , 2023 , after discussions in six Arab states to coordinate efforts against Hamas and address Gaza 's humanitarian crisis . ( Jacquelyn Martin / AFP / Getty ) <p> October 16 As Blinken toured the region , Israel began to bombard Gaza with an intensity that unnerved otherwise sympathetic Arab leaders . In Amman and Riyadh , Cairo and Abu Dhabi , Sunni heads of state privately intimated that they wished for the resounding defeat of Hamas , the Palestine branch of the fundamentalist Muslim Brotherhood movement that threatened their own regimes . They also accused Netanyahu of bringing catastrophe upon his country by allowing Qatari money to strengthen Hamas 's rule of Gaza -- the other Gulf States resented Qatar 's support for the Muslim Brotherhood -- despite their emphatic warnings about the dangers of that arrangement . But Israel was making it difficult for them to remain neutral . Hearing the Arabs ' complaints , Blinken decided to add one last stop on his tour , a return visit to Israel , where he would press Netanyahu to allow aid into Gaza . <p> Before he landed , he felt sure that the Israelis would accede to allowing trucks full of basic goods to enter the Strip . In the parlance of diplomacy , that agreement was " prebaked . " <p> But when Blinken visited Netanyahu , the prime minister balked . <p> Netanyahu told Blinken that he would negotiate the matter with Biden when he arrived in two days . Blinken replied that the president would n't board a plane without a humanitarian agreement in place . <p> It was lunchtime , and Blinken retreated to the acting ambassador 's home in Jerusalem , hoping that Netanyahu would reconsider in his absence . <p> At 6 p.m. , Blinken met Netanyahu at the Kirya . But the hours apart had done nothing to resolve the differences . Netanyahu kept arguing that his hands were tied . " I have got people in the cabinet who do n't want an aspirin to get into Gaza because of what 's happened . " Ministers wanted to inflict collective punishment . " That 's not me , " he added , " but that 's people in my coalition . " <p> An air-raid siren cut their discussion short , sending them to a tightly packed bunker , where Netanyahu , Blinken , and Gallant awkwardly passed the time . When they returned to their meeting , Netanyahu ended it . He told Blinken that he needed to discuss everything with his cabinet . He left the secretary and his staff in a bureaucrat 's small underground office , so deep that it had no cellular connection , while Netanyahu ran his meeting several doors down . <p> Periodically , members of the cabinet would emerge and present the Americans with a new proposal . Gallant suggested building a new railway system to transport aid , rather than allowing trucks into Gaza . <p> Netanyahu suggested that Israel could send a team to Gaza to assess the situation . <p> " You ca n't eat an assessment , " Blinken responded . <p> Blinken held the leverage : the promise of the presidential visit that Netanyahu craved . <p> At 1 a.m. , Netanyahu said that Israel would open the Rafah border crossing , which connected Gaza with Egypt . But he also insisted on sitting with Blinken for another hour , drafting the announcement of the agreement . Once they 'd hashed out a statement , they walked into a closet to make a copy . Netanyahu could n't figure out how to operate the machine . He just stood there , punching buttons . <p> October 17 -- 18 Air Force One was supposed to leave for Israel in a matter of hours , but Brett McGurk had forgotten his passport at home . Weaving his way through traffic in Washington , he heard a news report on the radio that a rocket had just struck Al-Ahli Arab Hospital in Gaza City , killing 500 civilians . Shit , he exclaimed to himself ; what 's going on ? Before he had time to think , Israeli officials began lighting up his phone , denying responsibility for the strike . <p> Twenty minutes later , back at the White House , he found the president huddled with Jake Sullivan , along with Steve Ricchetti and Mike Donilon , advisers who occupied Biden 's innermost circle . King Abdullah of Jordan called . Amman was supposed to be Biden 's second destination . He did n't want Biden coming to his country at such a sensitive moment . <p> As aides began to debate canceling the trip , Biden called Netanyahu , who quickly said , " It was n't us . I 'll get you all the intel . " He promised that by the time Biden landed , he would be able to show definitively that Israel had n't bombed the hospital . McGurk was n't so sure . But Biden concluded that he could n't tolerate the consequences of calling off the trip . The Israelis needed him . <p> ( Proof soon came that the hospital had been hit by an errant rocket fired by the Iran-affiliated Palestinian Islamic Jihad movement . ) <p> While Air Force One made its way through the night , Biden kept revising the speech he would deliver to the Israeli public . The president had long described himself as a Zionist , with sympathy for the Jewish people cultivated in him by his father . He had so many Jews on his staff that he sometimes joked with them about " our people . " Now , at Israel 's moment of greatest need , he wanted to be its friendly uncle , Ray-Bans dangling from his hand , dispensing hard-earned wisdom . <p> The October 7 attack had sapped Netanyahu of self-confidence . It had taken him more than a week to meet with hostages ' families ; he was avoiding the public , which blamed him for the security failure . After Biden arrived in Tel Aviv , he was n't just bucking up the prime minister ; he was , in effect , executing the parts of the job that Netanyahu could n't manage in his stunned detachment . <p> For hours , Biden huddled with the Israeli war cabinet . To the world , that meeting looked as if Biden was claiming ownership of Israel 's coming military campaign . The bear hug risked becoming a bear trap . <p> But it was n't his war to run ; all he could do was pose questions about the planned invasion of Gaza . <p> Biden was trying to get the Israelis to pause long enough to regain their emotional equilibrium and better calibrate their response . He offered to send three generals to lend their experience by poking holes in Israel 's plans and making suggestions . The Israelis had little desire to accept advice . But Biden was sitting in Tel Aviv , and an offer from the superpower that would help defend them in a war against Iran was n't something they could decline . <p> October 27 After his visit , Biden began to ratchet up the pressure . He wanted Netanyahu to refrain from launching a ground invasion . Instead of capturing major urban centers or displacing civilian populations , he urged Israel to consider waging a counterterrorism campaign , with a series of surgical raids and strikes against Hamas 's leadership and infrastructure . <p> The Israeli war cabinet dismissed the president 's alternative because it would leave Hamas intact and , the Israelis worried , able to carry out another assault like October 7 . But Israel did n't want to broadcast differences of opinion with the Americans to their enemies . Quietly , Netanyahu told Biden that he had to go in . <p> The invasion plan , however , was scaled back . Israel would send a fraction of the soldiers it initially intended in order to capture Gaza City , the hub of Hamas 's command-and-control structure . After a brief pause , the army would continue to Khan Younis , the epicenter of the tunnel network . The war would be over by Christmas . <p> What the Israelis described was much more aggressive than Biden 's plan . But the administration considered it well reasoned , not an overreaction . It made provisions to protect civilian life . <p> Twenty days after October 7 , the IDF cut cell service in the Gaza Strip . It seized the beach road into Palestinian territory , then curved toward Gaza City . Netanyahu told his nation , " This is the second stage of the war . " <p> November 24 All of the American warnings about the battle for Gaza City included premonitions of a high number of Israeli casualties . But only about 70 IDF soldiers died in the fighting . The Israelis succeeded in trouncing Hamas in the north far more efficiently than their leaders had dared hope . That victory presented a diplomatic opportunity , because the IDF had always intended to pause its attacks after the battle anyway . <p> Biden assigned Burns , the CIA director , to pursue a cease-fire deal . The rumpled , self-effacing spymaster was also the administration 's most experienced diplomat , a former deputy secretary of state who had earlier served as ambassador to Jordan and then Russia . Biden liked to hand Burns tasks that would otherwise have flowed to the secretary of state . Unlike Blinken , the CIA director could travel the world unannounced , without a retinue of reporters trailing him . And he had relationships with the two figures who , in theory , had the greatest chance of persuading Hamas to come to the table : Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al Thani , known as MBAR , Qatar 's prime minister and foreign minister , and Abbas Kamel , Egypt 's intelligence chief . <p> The two countries held sway over different corners of Hamas . Qatar served as the primary patron of the group 's exiled political wing , which had relocated to Doha in 2012 . Egypt , abutting the Gaza Strip , shared the management of the Rafah border crossing with Hamas . It had a direct relationship with the militants waging war . <p> To influence the course of the conflict , the negotiators needed the assent of one man , Hamas 's top leader in Gaza , Yahya Sinwar . His brutality toward Israelis ; his indifference , at best , to the death of Palestinian civilians ; his sense of theological certainty about his mission ; and his resignation to the possibility of his own death made him an almost impossible negotiating partner . <p> Even so , Sinwar thought strategically . He 'd spent many years in an Israeli prison , where he 'd learned Hebrew and voraciously consumed news from international sources . And the hostage negotiators benefited from a fleeting confluence of interests : Sinwar wanted to release the babies and small children among the hostages ; having militants change diapers was not the end goal of his operation . <p> When the four-day cease-fire deal began -- 50 hostages released in exchange for 150 Palestinian prisoners and a four-day pause in the fighting -- Burns remained in a state of constant anxiety . Israel said it would extend the cease-fire an additional day for each 10 additional hostages Hamas released . According to the deal , the hostages and prisoners exchanged were limited to women and children . <p> Each day , when the two sides published the names of those to be released , Burns braced himself for an objection that would cause the tentative peace to collapse . The Biden administration had successfully prodded the Israelis to develop a more nuanced , more realistic battle plan -- and to prioritize the release of the hostages . The benefits of its diplomacy were on display in the faces of the 105 hostages who returned to their families . ( Twenty-three Thai nationals and a Filipino were freed in a separate deal . ) Then , after seven days , everything fell apart . <h> II . <h> The Dream Palace <p> Early December In Gaza , the suffering was immense . As the fighting resumed , NGOs operating in the territory reported a humanitarian catastrophe : widespread hunger , a water system that had stopped functioning , a surge in infectious diseases , a near-total breakdown of the public-health apparatus . Although the death toll was subject to fierce dispute , and estimates rarely attempted to disentangle civilian and military casualties , the numbers were nonetheless harrowing . By early December , approximately 15,000 people had died . The Financial Times described northern Gaza as " virtually uninhabitable . " The Wall Street Journal called the conflict " comparable in scale to the most devastating urban warfare in the modern record . " <p> A backlash against Biden 's support for Israel was growing , not just among pro-Palestinian activists , but within the administration itself . In early December , a group of White House interns published an anonymous letter accusing the president of callously ignoring civilian deaths . A State Department official resigned in protest . Dissent began to filter into the Situation Room . A group that included Jon Finer , the deputy head of the National Security Council , and Phil Gordon , national security adviser to Vice President Kamala Harris , quietly complained about Israeli tactics . <p> Brett McGurk would push back against the complaints , invoking his stint overseeing the siege of Mosul during the Obama administration , as the U.S. attempted to drive ISIS from northern Iraq : We flattened the city . There 's nothing left . What standard are you holding these Israelis to ? <p> It was an argument bolstered by a classified cable sent by the U.S. embassy in Israel in late fall . American officials had embedded in IDF operating centers , reviewing its procedures for ordering air strikes . The cable concluded that the Israeli standards for protecting civilians and calculating the risks of bombardment were not so different from those used by the U.S. military . <p> When State Department officials chastised them over the mounting civilian deaths , Israeli officials liked to make the very same point . Herzl Halevi , the IDF chief of staff , brought up his own education at an American war college . He recalled asking a U.S. general how many civilian deaths would be acceptable in pursuit of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi , the jihadist leader of the anti-American insurgency in Iraq . The general replied , I do n't even understand the question.As Halevi now explained to the U.S. diplomats , Everything we do , we learned at your colleges . <p> December 14 -- 15 When the Israelis first outlined their campaign , they estimated that it would be over by Christmas , as if they would deliver an end to the conflict as a holiday gift for their American benefactor . Then they would shift to a counterterrorism operation using precision raids and targeted operations , just as Biden wanted . <p> But Christmas was little more than a week away -- and an end to the war seemed distant . Jake Sullivan went to Tel Aviv to press the war cabinet to conclude the operation . <p> The Israelis assured Sullivan that the end would come soon enough . They were about to eliminate a substantial portion of the underground tunnel system , to break the military capacity of their enemy . They simply needed a few more weeks , until the end of January , or perhaps February . <p> " This is starting to sound like just basically smashing your way around the entire Strip indefinitely , " Sullivan told them . <p> Despite his empathy for Israel , he had arrived at a dispiriting conclusion : The government had no plausible theory of victory , no idea how it might wrap up the conflict . <p> December 23 Sullivan 's doubts stoked Biden 's frustrations . He was suffering politically on Israel 's behalf , heckled at his public appearances by protesters and at odds with a faction of his own party , but Netanyahu did n't seem to care . The lack of reciprocity angered Biden . He was learning the hard way what his predecessors in the Oval Office had also learned the hard way : Netanyahu was not a give-and-take negotiating partner . <p> Biden called Netanyahu with a long list of concerns , urging him to release tax revenue that Israel owed to the Palestinian Authority , the government in the West Bank , which Netanyahu was always trying to undermine in his quest to prevent the establishment of an autonomous , fully functioning state there . <p> " You ca n't let the PA collapse , " Biden told him . " We 're going to have a West Bank catastrophe to go with the Gaza catastrophe . " <p> As Netanyahu began to push back , Biden could n't contain his pique and barked into the phone , We 're done . <p> January 8 Al-Ula was the realization of Mohammed bin Salman 's dreams -- a remote oasis that had come to represent the young monarch 's theory of modernization , how he would turn his country into the spear tip of the 21st century . In the middle of the desert , he had erected a destination brimming with five-star resorts and luxurious spas . There was even a plan to build a satellite branch of the Centre Pompidou . <p> The Saudi crown prince , known as MBS , maintained winter quarters at al-Ula . He took meetings in a tent lined with thick rugs and plush cushions . This is where he greeted Blinken , who arrived at dusk in pursuit of his own dream , a vision that traced back to the earliest days of the Biden presidency , when McGurk had traveled to the kingdom . <p> Biden took office spoiling for a fight with the Saudis . During the campaign , he had announced his intention of turning the kingdom into a " pariah . " But after McGurk explained the sanctions that the administration was about to impose on Saudi Arabia , he found himself on the receiving end of one of the prince 's flights of enthusiasm . MBS disarmed McGurk by announcing his desire to normalize relations with Israel , following the path that the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain had traveled a few months earlier with the signing of the Abraham Accords . <p> Netanyahu kept offering tantalizing hints of his own enthusiasm for the same vision . Two years after McGurk 's visit , in early 2023 , the prime minister called Biden and told him that he was prepared to reconfigure his coalition to build domestic support for a deal . Netanyahu would first have to overcome his lifelong aversion to a Palestinian state , because that was a nonnegotiable Saudi demand . But he said that he was willing to go there , even if he had to break with the theocrats in his coalition to make it happen . <p> And in the early fall of 2023 , the administration moved ever closer to hatching a normalization deal between the old adversaries . The deal was a grand bargain : Saudi Arabia and the United States would enter into a mutual-defense treaty , which required Senate ratification . The United States would help the Saudis build a nuclear-power program for civilian purposes , and in return Saudi Arabia would remain committed to the dominance of the U.S. dollar and American interests in the region . <p> The events of October 7 seemed destined to doom the deal . When Blinken visited MBS soon after the attack , the crown prince could hardly contain his anxiety about the prospect of anti-Israel protests in his streets , about the prospect of a regional war . <p> But in Blinken 's head , the contours of the deal still felt as relevant as ever . The administration began to imagine its diplomacy proceeding along two separate , but deeply interconnected , tracks . It would cut one deal with Qatar , the United Arab Emirates , Egypt , Jordan , and Morocco , which would have some of those countries supply troops to stabilize Gaza in the aftermath of the war . And then it would cut a separate deal with the Saudis , who would not only recognize Israel but also fund the reconstruction of Gaza . <p> Blinken had come to al-Ula looking for a signal from MBS that such a deal was still plausible . <p> As they settled in the tent , MBS shocked Blinken . A hardened piece of Washington conventional wisdom held that MBS felt a kinship , born of shared authoritarian tendencies , with Donald Trump . But after the 2018 murder of the Washington Post contributor Jamal Khashoggi , MBS had become a voracious student of American politics . He spoke frequently with Senator Lindsey Graham , a close ally of Trump 's , and those conversations helped lead him to a fresh analysis of Saudi interests . ( In the capitals of the Middle East , Graham is viewed as a potential secretary of state in a second Trump administration , so his opinions are given weight . ) <p> MBS told Blinken that the Biden administration represented his best chance for realizing his plans : Two-thirds of the Senate needed to ratify any Saudi-U.S. defense pact , and he believed that could happen only in a Democratic administration , which could help deliver progressives ' votes by building a Palestinian state into the deal . He had to move quickly , before the November election risked returning Trump to power . <p> " What do you need from Israel ? " Blinken wanted to know . <p> Above all , MBS said , he needed calm in Gaza . Blinken asked if the Saudis could tolerate Israel periodically reentering the territory to conduct counterrorism raids . " They can come back in six months , a year , but not on the back end of my signing something like this , " MBS replied . <p> He began to talk about the imperative of an Israeli commitment to Palestinian statehood . <p> " Seventy percent of my population is younger than me , " the 38-year-old ruler explained . " For most of them , they never really knew much about the Palestinian issue . And so they 're being introduced to it for the first time through this conflict . It 's a huge problem . Do I care personally about the Palestinian issue ? I do n't , but my people do , so I need to make sure this is meaningful . " ( A Saudi official described this account of the conversation as " incorrect . " ) <p> He wanted Blinken to know that he was pursuing this deal at the greatest personal risk . The example of the assassinated former Egyptian President Anwar Sadat weighed on him , an unshakable demonstration that the Muslim Brotherhood would wait patiently to exact murderous revenge on an Arab leader willing to make peace with Israel . <p> " Half my advisers say that the deal is not worth the risk , " he said . " I could end up getting killed because of this deal . " <p> January 9 Blinken hoped that Netanyahu still hungered for diplomatic relations with Saudi Arabia . Normalization would , after all , be the capstone of what the prime minister considered his legacy project : brokering peace with the Arab Gulf States . And , in MBS 's view , it would almost certainly create space for other Muslim nations to follow : Qatar , Indonesia , Bangladesh , Pakistan , a slew of African states . <p> Iran was the force that could weld together this unlikely coalition . The Islamic Republic 's aspirations to regional hegemony , its pursuit of nuclear weapons , and its willingness to fund and train militant groups frightened both the Middle East 's Sunni Arab rulers and its Israeli leaders . By working together , though , Israel and the Sunni states might be able to contain Iran . It was a plausible enough vision , but it had failed to account for an Iranian veto . <p> If October 7 was designed to halt Israeli-Arab rapprochement , it had been wildly successful . And the only hope of reviving the process rested on Netanyahu overcoming a deeply ingrained instinct . Ever since losing his premiership in 1999 , after making concessions to the Palestinians under pressure from the Clinton administration , he 'd seemed determined never to alienate the Israeli right wing again . He almost always choked when forced to utter the words Palestinian state . <p> Sitting with Netanyahu , Blinken asked if he wanted to continue pursuing a deal with MBS . " If you 're not serious about this it 's good to know , because we can just close up shop here . " <p> Netanyahu said he remained emphatically interested . <p> Spelling out the obvious , Blinken told him that he would need to publicly express his support for Palestinian statehood . Netanyahu replied that he could find a way to make that commitment , although he allowed that it might take some finessing of language . <p> When Blinken mentioned that MBS also needed calm in Gaza , Netanyahu said that he could supply that , too . <p> After they finished their private discussion , Blinken joined Netanyahu in a cabinet meeting . Rather than seeking to restore calm , however , the ministers were discussing plans for ramping up the war . Netanyahu said nothing to contradict them . <p> As they left the meeting , Blinken grabbed him and said , " Prime Minister , what we just heard there -- it 's not consistent with what we talked about in your office . " <p> He replied , " I know . I 'm working on it . " <p> January 31 Beneath central Gaza City , the Israelis experienced the shock of another intelligence failure . Of course they knew about the tunnels of Gaza . In the popular vernacular of the prewar era , they were dubbed the Metro . But as the IDF cleared Hamas from the city and began to burrow beneath it , it was stunned by the branching passageways it encountered . The Israelis began to refer to it as the Kingdom . They realized that the tunnels were far deeper than they had known . And as the army moved into Khan Younis , it began to comprehend their scale . It was possible , the Israelis estimated , that as many as 450 miles of tunnel were beneath the Strip . <p> The network had been built to withstand an Israeli invasion . Entryways were booby-trapped . Steel blast doors protected living quarters so that they could withstand air strikes . Militants ' apartments were adorned with ceramic tile to create a comforting illusion of home . The tunnels contained machinery to manufacture the long-range rockets that Hamas periodically launched at civilian targets in Israel . It was even possible to drive a car through the widest passageways . <p> The discovery of the full extent of the system extended Israel 's timeline . Conquering the subterranean world was painstaking , perilous work ; fanciful schemes , such as pumping the passages full of seawater , failed to clear the tunnels . And the IDF kept uncovering computers filled with revelatory information , leading it to new targets . <p> Israeli soldiers stumbled into Yahya Sinwar 's lair under the city of Khan Younis soon after he had fled , leaving behind bags of cash that he desperately needed . The near miss was a forking moment : Killing Sinwar might have allowed Israel to feel the catharsis that comes with retribution , opening the way to negotiate an end to the war . <p> In the months that followed , Sinwar was the lizard that grew back its tail . After the IDF would crush his battalions , it would then withdraw its troops . Israel did n't want to become an occupying force , with the casualties and burdens that would entail . The world did n't want that either . But without a continued IDF presence in the cities it conquered , Hamas returned to the sites of its defeat . It reconstituted itself , both physically and spiritually . Sinwar had developed a new sense of his own resilience , American intelligence came to believe , and a suspicion that he might just survive . <p> March 5 Every time Antony Blinken visited Israel , he found himself in endless meetings with politicians who delivered posturing soliloquies , which reporters who had n't been in the room somehow managed to quote later in the day . He began arranging private conversations with Benny Gantz and Yoav Gallant . <p> Gantz , a former IDF chief of staff turned leader of the centrist opposition , was the great hope for a politically viable alternative to Netanyahu . And in the late winter , he privately indicated to the State Department that the premiership might be within his reach . <p> The administration thought it could see a path to provoking a political crisis within Israel : Present the Saudi deal to the Israeli public , and if Netanyahu rejected it , Biden could explain its wisdom . Voters would be left to choose between Netanyahu and a sunnier alternative vision of Israel 's future . <p> To boost his standing , Gantz scheduled a trip to the White House . The visit deeply irked Netanyahu . The Israeli embassy was instructed not to arrange meetings on Gantz 's behalf while he was in Washington . <p> Two of Blinken 's top deputies , Barbara Leaf and Derek Chollet , met Gantz in his suite at the Willard hotel . It was the former general 's first trip outside Israel since October 7 , his first time emerging into a world that had largely shifted its sympathy from Israeli hostages to Palestinian children . As Gantz sipped his coffee , Chollet and Leaf took turns excoriating him for the humanitarian crisis in Gaza . It was n't hard to read the surprise on his face ; he was n't prepared for how differently Americans had come to see the war . <p> Upon returning to Israel , Gantz told colleagues that Netanyahu was endangering Jerusalem 's relationship with Washington . The warning was both accurate and self-serving ; the time had arrived for Gantz to make his move . <p> But Gantz , ever the Boy Scout , hesitated to resign from the government in the middle of a war or to call for new elections , as he had long hinted he would . His hour had come , and then it swiftly passed him by . <p> Benny Gantz visits the U.S. State Department on March 5 to discuss humanitarian aid in Gaza . ( Chuck Kennedy / State Department / abacapress.com / Reuters ) <p> March 9 Biden was feeling hoodwinked . First , the Israelis had said the war would be over by Christmas ; then they 'd said it would be over by February . Now they said they wanted to invade Rafah , which would extend the war for several more months . <p> It seemed to the White House as if the Israelis had learned nothing . They planned to encircle Rafah , the last intact city in Gaza , where refugees from across the Strip had gathered , and then clear it block by block . They had no serious plan for evacuating and rehousing civilians . <p> In one meeting with Blinken , Ron Dermer boasted that the Israelis had ordered 80,000 tents for evacuees . But in the course of the meeting , the Israelis admitted that the number was actually closer to 40,000 . Even the larger number , though , would n't come close to housing more than 1 million refugees . <p> Biden 's team understood why the Israelis wanted to enter Rafah , which bordered Egypt . Every tunnel resupplying Hamas with smuggled bullets and rockets ran beneath it . The IDF had left it out of the initial plan because its leaders expected to sustain a large number of casualties just tackling their original targets . But as the war had gone on and they 'd learned how to fight Hamas , their confidence had grown and their plans had evolved . <p> Five months into the fighting , Biden and his administration were still reacting to events as they unfolded , and appeared no closer to bringing the conflict to an end . Now , for the first time , he told the Israelis he 'd had enough . He could n't support an invasion of Rafah without a better plan for limiting Palestinian suffering . In an interview with MSNBC 's Jonathan Capehart , he said that this was his " red line . " <p> Palestinians rush trucks transporting international aid from the U.S.-built temporary aid pier near the Nuseirat refugee camp in central Gaza on May 18 . ( AFP / Getty ) <h> III . <h> David 's Sling <p> April 1 At about 11 a.m. , a group of Israeli officials piled into the White House Situation Room . Jake Sullivan had prepared a lacerating speech : " You 're about to be responsible for the third famine of the 21st century . " But before he could even sit down , Sullivan noticed that the face of the usually gregarious Hadai Zilberman , the military attach ? from the Israeli embassy , was creased with worry . He stepped out of the room to talk with Zilberman and Ambassador Herzog . <p> The Israelis explained that they had just struck a building in Damascus . That , in itself , was not a big deal . As far as the U.S. was concerned , Israel had freedom of action in Syria . <p> But Herzog and Zilberman intimated that this situation was different . For starters , they had killed three generals and four officers in Iran 's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps . That included Mohammad Reza Zahedi , the general in charge of Iran 's covert activity in Lebanon and Syria and an old friend of Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei . And there was a complicating wrinkle : The building abutted the Iranian embassy . <p> " You did what ? " Sullivan asked in disbelief . " Was it part of the embassy ? " <p> The Israelis said they could n't be sure , but they did n't believe that it was . <p> On social media , however , the Iranians were already claiming that Israel had destroyed its consulate , which constituted sovereign Iranian soil . <p> Sullivan felt his frustration rising : Does Israel really need this right now ? Does the United States really need this right now ? <p> In truth , the Israelis had n't fully considered the reverberations , although the Mossad had argued that the strike was n't worth the risk . That evening , Iran sent the U.S. a message via the Swiss , holding it responsible and hinting that retaliation would extend to American targets . <p> Later in the week , the administration sent its own muscular message : Do n't attack Israel . A strike on Israel would draw the region into war ; it would draw the U.S. and Iran into conflict . <p> April 12 Iranian retaliation was often theatrical , severe enough to demonstrate resolve to the regime 's hard-liners but mild enough to preclude a cycle of escalation . But this time , the intel suggested something worse . <p> At first , the three-letter agencies had predicted that Iran would hurl about a dozen ballistic missiles at Israel . Over the course of a week , however , those predictions had swelled to as many as 50 . The number suggested an effort to draw not attention , but blood . <p> General Kurilla had flown across the region , coordinating an international response to the impending assault . Missiles would be tracked from space and shot down by American ships . The Israelis would use their layered interceptors : the Arrow systems , Iron Dome , David 's Sling . American and British fighter jets would knock down drones before they could enter Israel , which meant operating in Jordanian and Saudi airspace . Kurilla even convinced Arab states that their air forces should participate in knocking down drones , proof of concept for an emerging anti-Iranian alliance . <p> Lloyd Austin reported that the allies were prepared , but the Pentagon worried that some missiles and drones would slip past the patchwork defense . It seemed almost inevitable that Israel would respond in turn , and that the wider war the administration had worked so hard to avoid would be on . <p> April 13 " It 's already under way , " Austin told the room . <p> At about 5:15 p.m. , Biden had gathered his advisers in the Situation Room -- his intelligence chiefs , his national security adviser , the secretaries of state and defense . The vice president joined remotely , via videophone , as did General Kurilla , who was in Jordan . <p> The Iranians had unleashed their first salvo , an armada of drones flying slowly toward Israel . This was just the prelude , but Austin was already rushing to tamp down the next phase of the conflict . He had called Yoav Gallant and urged him in the strongest terms not to retaliate without consulting the U.S. <p> Kurilla periodically disappeared from the screen in search of the latest intelligence . The U.S. , the U.K. , and their Arab allies had already begun swatting down the drones , he reported . Saudi Arabia , home to Islam 's most sacred sites , was helping defend the Jewish state . ( Saudi Arabia has not confirmed or denied its involvement . ) <p> But drones were slow and easy pickings . The bigger tests , Kurilla warned , were the ballistic missiles . He estimated that they could be in the air within the hour . <p> " What are the primary targets ? " the president asked . <p> The bulk of the missiles were expected to fall on an air base in Israel 's Negev desert , but cities might also be struck . The Houthis , Iran 's proxies in Yemen , might target the resort city of Eilat . Iraqi and Syrian militias might take aim at Haifa . " The numbers are the problem , " Austin said . " They are trying to overwhelm air defense . " <p> Biden , as always , worried about escalation . " I want to make sure we know what the hell we 're doing , " he said . " It 's one thing to defend Israel . It 's another thing to use force against Iran . " <p> He was uncertain how ferociously the Israelis might react , but he was sure that they would . " If they do n't respond , I 'll eat this table , " he said . <p> Then , at 6:34 , Kurilla told the room that the full Iranian assault had begun . Screens filled with images of missiles launching . Maps of the Middle East were covered in arcing red lines , tracing the trajectory of lethal projectiles that would land in 12 minutes . <p> At 6:52 , Kurilla appeared again , and said that at least four drones or ballistic missiles had struck their intended target at the Nevatim air base , but he did n't know the damage . Other drones and missiles were still in the air , and he was unsure if more would follow . <p> The officials at the table began to retreat from the room to call their own sources , in search of greater clarity . The meeting anxiously dissolved , without any sense of the scale of the crisis . <p> At 8:07 , it reconvened . Austin had just spoken with Gallant . Five of the Iranian missiles hit the air base , he said . Only one struck an occupied building , but it inflicted minimal damage . There was one report of a civilian killed by shrapnel . ( It turned out to be false . ) <p> " This is extraordinary , " Austin said , beaming . <p> It was one thing to design an air defense system , integrating land , sea , and space , and stitching together Arabs , Jews , and Americans . It was another for that system to work nearly perfectly in the heat of battle . <p> But Sullivan broke the ebullient mood : " I just spoke to my counterpart ; there are many voices in the war cabinet that are strongly urging for striking back very quickly . " <p> Biden picked up the phone to call Netanyahu . He wanted the prime minister to know that Israel had already miscalculated once , by attacking the Iranian facility in Damascus . It could n't afford to miscalculate again . <p> " Tell people that you succeeded . Tell them that you 've got friends . Tell them that you have a superior military . But if you go after Iran , we 're not going to be with you . Not a joke . " <p> " I understand , Joe , " Netanyahu responded , " but these guys still have a lot of capability left , and they could do it again . " <p> After he hung up , Biden told the room that although he 'd instructed Netanyahu to " take the win , " he knew he would n't . Biden 's goal was n't to prevent Israeli retaliation , but to limit it . He went to bed still unsure whether he had headed off a regional war . <p> April 18 In the days that followed , the Israeli war cabinet debated the form that retaliation would take . Sullivan feared that the Israelis wanted to put on a " firework show , " calibrated to project superiority and provoking an endless exchange of missiles . <p> Sullivan kept calling Israeli officials , and he found that they understood the risks of escalation . <p> Gallant told him that Israel would engage in a precision response , without announcing the target of the strike or the damage it exacted , so that Iran could save face . <p> On the evening of April 18 , Sullivan and Brett McGurk watched from the Situation Room as Israel struck an air base outside Isfahan , not far from an Iranian nuclear site . It was n't the scale of the attack that impressed , but its stealth . Eluding Iran 's air defenses implied that Israel could strike Iran anywhere it wanted , at any time it desired . <p> But McGurk and Sullivan could n't be sure whether the restraint that Israel displayed would preclude escalation . That night , the intelligence showed that Amir Ali Hajizadeh , the Iranian commander who 'd overseen the April 13 attack , was aching to fire more missiles at Israel . His view , ultimately , was the dissident one . Iranian media portrayed Israel 's retaliation as ineffectual , hardly worthy of a response . The next day , the Iranians passed yet another message along to the U.S. , this time through the United Nations envoy in Lebanon . They were done . <h> IV . <h> Breaking Up <p> May 1 Antony Blinken was headed back to Washington after an exhausting set of meetings . Even at home , he could n't escape the conflict . In front of his suburban-Virginia house , protesters had erected an encampment , which they called Kibbutz Blinken , implying that he held dual loyalties . Blinken was the highest-ranking Jew in the executive branch -- and the only member of the administration subjected to such treatment . Protesters threw red paint at cars that were leaving his house . They shouted at his wife , " Leave him , leave him . " <p> When things seemed especially bleak , Blinken liked to quote an aphorism coined by George Mitchell , who negotiated the Good Friday Agreement in 1998 , ending decades of sectarian strife in Northern Ireland . While pursuing the deal , Mitchell said , he 'd had 700 days of failure and one day of success . <p> Blinken was at the end of one not particularly successful day . In Jerusalem , he 'd confronted Netanyahu and his cabinet about Israel 's plans for invading Rafah . <p> He told them : You 're going to have to make your own decisions , but go into this clear-eyed ; understand the consequences for our relationship . <p> Netanyahu seemed braced for a possible rupture : If this is it , this is it . If this is where we end , this is where we end . You have to do what you have to do . We have to do what we have to do . <p> That was n't the response the Americans in the room had expected , and it left them dazed . For the entirety of the war , they had avoided a rift in the alliance , but perhaps the alliance was dissolving , despite Biden 's warm feelings , despite all the political costs he 'd absorbed on Israel 's behalf . <p> May 8 Biden told aides that he did n't want to see Israel raze Rafah , where the IDF was already operating , with the same American bombs that had flattened northern Gaza , so he ordered the suspension of the shipment of certain heavy munitions . But this was an impulsive decision -- rendered in anger after Netanyahu crossed Biden 's Rafah red line . The administration had n't figured out how to communicate the decision to the Israeli government , but the Israelis were bound to notice that the weapons shipments had been delayed . <p> Yoav Gallant learned about it from underlings , then confronted Blinken to confirm it . Reports of the slowdown leaked to the press . But instead of discouraging Netanyahu , Biden 's rash move had thrown him a political lifeline . <p> Over the course of his career , Netanyahu had always excelled at picking fights with Democratic presidents as a means of boosting his standing with right-wing Israeli voters . Now Biden had given him the pretext for the same comfortably familiar play once more . <p> Netanyahu began to publicly argue that Biden 's caution , his hand-wringing about civilian casualties , was preventing Israel from winning the war . Republican members of Congress were leveling the same accusation , only without any pretense of diplomatic niceties . Senator Tom Cotton toldFace the Nation , " Joe Biden 's position is de facto for Hamas victory at this point . " <p> May 31 After months of drift , Biden was at last aggressively attempting to impose his will and bring the fighting in Gaza to a close . In the State Dining Room of the White House , he delivered a speech -- and presented a four-and-a-half-page plan -- describing the mechanics of a cease-fire , distilling months of negotiation between Israel and Hamas . Only this time , the proposed deal was n't being hashed out behind the scenes between the parties , but issued from the mouth of the president of the United States . <p> Biden intended to stuff Netanyahu in a box by insisting publicly that Israel had agreed to his proposal -- even though he knew that the right-wing members of the Israeli government would likely reject it , and that Netanyahu had made a habit of pushing for better terms even after he 'd committed to a deal . But with its invasion of Rafah advancing , and as it gained control of the smuggling tunnels in the south , Israel was on the brink of ending the most intensive phase of the war . <p> The president described Hamas as the key obstacle to the deal , and he directed his administration to use every means at its disposal to pressure the group . After Biden 's speech , Blinken called MBAR , Qatar 's prime minister , and told him that he needed to evict Hamas from his country if it rejected the cease-fire . Before Blinken hung up the phone , MBAR agreed . <p> By now , it had been 237 days since Hamas had kidnapped some 250 hostages . And by the IDF 's count , it still held about 100 alive , and the bodies of at least 39 others . Striking a deal offered the best chance of bringing them home , and Biden was finally investing the prestige of the presidency to make it happen . <p> August 1 Throngs crammed the streets of Tehran , accompanying a casket carrying the body of Ismail Haniyeh , the head of Hamas 's political wing and its chief negotiator in the cease-fire talks . A remotely detonated bomb had exploded at the guesthouse where he was staying for the inauguration of Iran 's new president . <p> Israel declined to publicly assume responsibility , but in a message to the State Department , it bluntly owned the assassination and blamed Haniyeh for a long list of horrific acts . Although the Israelis had given no specific warning , they had previously told the Americans of their intent to eliminate the upper echelon of Hamas 's October 7 leadership ; with Haniyeh gone , only two remained . <p> As Blinken absorbed the news on a trip to Asia , he called MBAR . " It was shocking because he was the one that was mainly overcoming the obstacles to get into a deal , " the Qatari prime minister complained . <p> But American officials were n't overly concerned about the negotiations . Hamas , they judged , would replace Haniyeh and continue to negotiate , just as Haniyeh had continued to negotiate after Israel killed three of his 13 sons and four grandchildren . <p> What worried them more was that Haniyeh 's death was just one of several attacks by the Israelis . Hours before , an air strike had killed Fuad Shukr , a top Hezbollah commander , in retaliation for a rocket that killed 12 children playing on a soccer pitch in the Golan Heights . About a week before that , Israel had struck the Houthis in Yemen , avenging a drone attack on Tel Aviv . <p> After Haniyeh 's death , Iran threatened to reprise its April attack on Israel . In response , the United States began following the same well-trodden steps , moving a carrier and a submarine into the region , and sending stern warnings to Tehran through back channels . Officials began mobilizing the allies . This time , though , other countries were hesitant to come to Israel 's defense . The Saudis and Jordanians worried that by protecting Israel , the U.S. was giving it license to launch ever more perilous attacks in the region . Although they eventually joined the preparations for defending against an assault , the administration began to worry that these repeated trips to the brink were exhausting its luck . <p> August 21 When President Biden had presented his outline for a cease-fire in May , Netanyahu 's advisers had signaled that he endorsed it . But in late July , Israeli negotiators sent a letter backing away . To agree to the deal , Israel said that it needed five new amendments , including stationing Israeli troops on Gaza 's southern border , along the Philadelphi corridor . <p> The administration felt as if Netanyahu was scuppering a deal just as one seemed plausible . It leaked the Israeli letter to TheNew York Times in frustration , as evidence of the prime minister 's bad faith . <p> But Biden thought he needed to bring Netanyahu back in line himself . On the phone , he implored him to compromise , implying that he would pin blame for any collapse of the talks on the prime minister . <p> The burst of presidential pressure was hardly unexpected -- and Netanyahu was clearly prepared for it . Worried that he might be portrayed as the saboteur who prevented the return of the hostages , he told Biden that he would dial back his demands . His counterproposal did n't diverge much from the deal that the administration had judged that Hamas would accept . <p> For a time in August , Hamas was an equally frustrating barrier to progress , as it waited for Iran to avenge Haniyeh 's death . But as time passed without a counterstrike , the administration began to believe that Iran , like Netanyahu , did n't want to be accused of ruining a deal . Hamas 's tone shifted , suggesting a willingness to negotiate . <p> A cease-fire , and the release of hostages , seemed closer than ever . <p> August 31 Jake Sullivan decamped to New Hampshire for Labor Day weekend , so that he could be with his wife , Maggie , who was running in a Democratic primary for Congress . That Saturday , he received a call from William Burns , reporting that the IDF had found six corpses in a tunnel beneath Rafah . The Israelis could n't yet confirm it , but they were convinced that the bodies were those of hostages , murdered execution-style , and that Hersh Goldberg-Polin was among them . <p> Over the past 11 months , Sullivan had met regularly with the families of the American hostages held by Hamas , often in a group . But he also spoke separately with Hersh 's mother , Rachel , with whom he felt a particular connection . Through their conversations , Sullivan had formed a mental portrait of her 23-year-old son , a dual U.S. and Israeli citizen -- a single human face for Sullivan 's broader effort to reunite the hostages with their families . <p> Day after day , he had worked to save Hersh 's life . I 've failed , he thought to himself . I 've objectively failed . <p> At 8 o'clock that evening , Sullivan dialed into a secure call with Biden , Finer , Blinken , and McGurk . Phil Gordon joined on the vice president 's behalf . As a group , they reviewed the past 11 months . Could they have done anything differently ? Had they overlooked any opportunities for securing the release of the hostages ? <p> Sullivan wondered if a deal had ever been possible . Hamas had just killed six of its best bargaining chips , an act of nihilism . <p> Over the course of two hours , the group batted ideas back and forth . In the end , they threw up their hands . There was no magical act of diplomacy , no brilliant flourish of creative statecraft that they could suddenly deploy . <p> After all the trips to the region , all the suffering witnessed on those trips , all the tough conversations , all the cease-fire proposals , the conflict raged on . Three hundred thirty-one days of failure , and the single day of success was still beyond their grasp .
