<h> Invasion of Lebanon <p> Emboldened by the successes against Hezbollah , Israel seems to have made up its mind for a full-fledged invasion of Lebanon . This will be the third time in the last four decades that the Jewish state will be marching south in an Arab state , which itself sits at the brink of disaster and marginalisation . This daredevil move hints at the collateral damage that the command and control infrastructure of Hezbollah had received , with the subsequent killing of its leadership including Secretary General Hassan Nasrallah . With little tactical maneuvering at hand , as Hezbollah will take time to regroup , Israel has intentionally rolled down its ground forces on Lebanese soil , followed by weeks of airstrikes and reconnaissance operations . Reports say more than 100 people were killed and scores injured as Israeli military forces swung into action in the southern regions , Bekaa Valley and Beirut . <p> This escalation will have a spillover effect , and it wo n't be a walkover for the Zionist state . The capitulation of the Lebanese Army , as it had retreated in the last two days , is no surprise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back Israel in 2006 . But with chips down for Hezbollah , the region is set for a long-drawn war . An immediate casualty of this Israeli adventure in Lebanon are the people of Gaza who are once again under bombardment with no recourse to a sigh of relief . Last but not least , Iran 's thrust to take the institutional route by knocking at the doors of the UN and galvanising diplomatic muscles will come as a time buying tool for Israel , which knows no limits of barbarism and bloodshed . <p> The Israeli thrust inside Lebanon rings alarming bells for Syria too , and is a precursor to the widening of the conflict . The question is : is there no mechanism at work diplomatically or militarily to stop the genocidal advancement of Israel ? How can the territorial violation of Lebanon , a sovereign state , be taken for granted merely because Israel is in a conflict with a non-state actor , Hezbollah ? Time to take a stance and stop Israel before it gets too late .
