<p> EDITORIAL : With the right to freedom of expression protected by the First Amendment to its constitution once the US was considered as the citadel of media freedoms , but no longer . In its recently published report entitled " On Edge : What the US Election Could Mean for Journalists and Global Press Freedom " , the Committee to Protect Journalists ( CPJ ) notes that " members of the media face a slew of threats , including violence , online harassment , legal challenges , and attacks by police " , which could coalesce to undermine press freedom . <p> This has been compounded by a disturbing rise in online harassment , especially against women and journalists of colour and those who belong to religious or ethnic minorities -- read Muslims . As of September 2024 , points out the report , assaults on journalists in the country in relation to their work had increased by more than 50 percent compared to the year before -- from 45 to 68 assaults -- most likely linked to Israel 's war on Gaza . <p> The environment being as fraught as it is , at risk is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be informed . Skeptics may argue that that right is routinely compromised when people consume biased information purveyed by various media outlet . The other side of the argument is that whether mainstream or social media all are known to favour liberal or conservative politics and aligned social issue ; so do most of the consumers of news and view in making their choices about following one or the other publication or TV network . The problem arises when journalists face threats of violence or harassment from individuals as well as influential pressure groups . They can get into trouble even for expressing private views on social media , as seen in the case of CNN anchor Jim Clancy back in 2015 . He was forced to resign after 34 years for getting involved in a Twitter debate with pro-Israeli activists -- ' Hasbara ' -- over the attack on French magazine Charlie Hebdo for its mocking of the Holy Prophet ( PBUH ) of Islam . There may have been other such cases , though low profile , of reporters and commentators losing their jobs or taking unpleasant consequences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that seek to influence print and electronic media . <p> The CJP rightly blames the Donald Trump 's presidency for creating a hostile media climate , which it says , has left a legacy that poses great risks to media inside and outside the country . Nonetheless , it makes no mention of the restrictions the Biden administration has placed on the public 's right to access alternative sources of information by banning Russian news outlets , including RT , Sputnik , Rossiya Segodnya and TV -- Novosti , accusing them of marketing Moscow 's propaganda -- its version of the war in Ukraine . Following suit Meta , the parent company of Facebook , WhatsApp and Instagram , has also barred Russian media from its platforms . This amounts to repression of other opinion in clear breach of the people 's right to know . Those who made the effort to tune into them surely could distinguish fact from fiction or spin . It should also be a matter of concern to media watchdogs in the US and other Western countries .
