<h> SCO 's way forward <p> Pakistan vociferously called for buoying regional connectivity as the 23rd SCO summit in Islamabad came to an end . The two-day celestial huddle , however , was on the same page for investing in future for collective economic growth , and underscored the need for capacity building in horizons from climate change to industry , and from logistics to peace and security . That note of conviction , as dawned from respective members ' input , blessed a homogeneity of sorts , making the Eurasia-South connect in humble multilateralism . There was a consensus among member states for moving ahead by pinning hopes in the SCO 's institutional nomenclature , and broadening the mosaic by making the best use of tech-advancement to overcome inequality . <p> PM Shehbaz Sharif listed out the two gigantic blessings for the region , BRI and CPEC , and threw open Pakistan 's landscape for cooperation while calling for realising the dream by shunning bilateral prejudice . Pakistan also pointed out that reforming the global financial architecture and trade regimes are essential in the wake of public disgust in international order , and supported the establishment of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of member states must become legal tender in international trade . In a subtle referral to counter-terrorism efforts , Islamabad endorsed reforms aimed at enhancing regional anti-terrorist structure , and opined that the true essence of SCO extends beyond political alliances and economic partnerships . <p> The call for a peaceful Afghanistan coincided with the concern for two flashpoints in the world , Gaza and Ukraine , urging the SCO members to reflect on the centrifugal crosscurrents of realpolitik . It was a good gesture , likewise , from Indian External Affairs Minister Dr Jaishankar to stress on the need for addressing challenges between neighbours through " honest dialogue and cooperation " . China , Russia and CARs have undertaken such a path in their regional orientation , and the SCO forum can surely do a better job by cajoling India and Pakistan for a thaw , leading to their interlinking in connectivity .
