<h> Students from Palestine <p> Pakistan 's decision to welcome Palestinian medical and dental students to continue their education in Pakistani institutions is a commendable and humanitarian initiative . In the wake of Israel 's genocidal assault on Gaza and other war crimes against Palestinians , Pakistan offered much-needed support for Palestinian students to safely continue their education . The Israeli attacks have not only taken out most of the health facilities in Gaza , they have also been hitting education institutes , making it harder for Palestine to produce much-needed doctors . This makes the offer to support well over 100 Palestinian students invaluable . <p> So far , two batches totaling 91 students have arrived , most of whom are in the last or second-last year of their medical education . This means that within a year in some cases , these students could return home to help alleviate the healthcare disaster in Palestine , which has lost over 42,000 citizens to Israeli atrocities conducted with American , German , Italian and British weapons . The British , who accounted for less than 1% of Israeli arms purchases in 2023 , are the only one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " that they " might be used to commit or facilitate a serious violation of international humanitarian law " . Still , like the others , they feel no sense of responsibility to compensate the thousands of people suffering just so that a handful of weapons manufacturers can make a profit . <p> It is also worth noting that the death toll due to the war is actually many times higher - the 42,000 figure does not include deaths due to famine and disease that would have been preventable if Israel was n't starving Gaza and blowing up hospitals and clinics . As was the case with Afghanistan , Somalia , Syria and dozens of other nations , the countries that directly or indirectly wrecked them are taking no responsibility for fixing them , leaving countries that may have nothing to do with the war to fill the gap .
