<h> Gaza and world 's silence <p> Israel temporarily stopped services at the last functioning hospital in Gaza earlier this week after a military raid in which several staff members were detained . The action , which is likely Israel 's latest contravention of the laws of war - if not an outright war crime - reflects not only the country 's total disregard for human rights , but also the duplicity of Israel 's allies , especially the US and several EU states . <p> International humanitarian law is clear that civilians and medical facilities must be protected during armed conflicts . In fact , the Geneva Conventions explicitly state that hospitals should not be targeted , recognising their vital role in providing care to those in need , regardless of their affiliations . Unfortunately , aside from a few expressions of disappointment and surprise when Israel 's brutality is too blatant to completely ignore , none of the world powers have bothered to use their clout to force Israeli soldiers and politicians to act professionally and honourably . <p> In the EU , member states such as Ireland , Spain and a few others have consistently taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demanding sanctions against Israel and action against Hamas . Unfortunately , a handful of countries - most prominently Germany , which is the bloc 's most influential state - have blocked any hope of sanctions , or even full-throated condemnation of Israel . Many critics believe Berlin 's historical guilt over its state-run genocide of Jews during WWII is behind its refusal to intervene or even call out Israeli excesses . <p> Meanwhile , US Congressmen are issuing statements left , right and centre about perceived election irregularities and the possibility for abuse of new legislation in Pakistan and other countries , but - except for a courageous few - will never even utter a word of condemnation about the mass murder of women and children in Gaza . In fact , as happened after the recent hospital raid , they will defend Israel 's right to defend itself from all threats , including doctors , nurses , pregnant women , and little children .
