<h> Israel pounds Gaza neighbourhoods as people scramble for safety in sealed-off territory <p> PTI Updated : October 10 , 2023 23:01 IST <p> Jerusalem , Oct 10 ( AP ) Israeli warplanes hammered the Gaza Strip neighbourhood by neighbourhood on Tuesday , reducing buildings to rubble and sending people scrambling to find safety in the tiny , sealed-off territory as Israel vowed a retaliation for Hamas ' surprise weekend attack that would " reverberate ... for generations " . Aid organisations pleaded for the creation of humanitarian corridors to get aid into Gaza , warning that hospitals overwhelmed with wounded were running out of supplies . Israel has stopped entry of food , fuel and medicines into Gaza , and the sole remaining access from Egypt shut down Tuesday after airstrikes hit near the border crossing . The war began after Hamas militants stormed into Israel on Saturday , bringing gunbattles to its streets for the first time in decades . More than 1,800 lives have already been claimed on both sides , and perhaps hundreds more . Hamas and other militant groups in Gaza hold more than 150 soldiers and civilians hostage , according to Israel . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mobilisation of reservists to 360,000 on Tuesday , according to the country 's media . After days of fighting , Israel 's military said Tuesday morning that it had regained effective control over areas Hamas attacked in its south , and of the Gaza border . A looming question is whether Israel will launch a ground offensive into Gaza -- a 40-km-long ( 25-mile-long ) strip of land wedged among Israel , Egypt and the Mediterranean Sea that is home to 2.3 million people and has been governed by Hamas since 2007 . On Tuesday , a large part of Gaza City 's Rimal neighbourhood was reduced to rubble after warplanes bombarded it for hours the night before . Residents found buildings torn in half or demolished to mounds of concrete and rebar . Cars were flattened and trees burned out on residential streets transformed into moonscapes . Palestinian Civil Defence forces pulled Abdullah Musleh out of his basement together with 30 others after their apartment building was flattened . " I sell toys , not missiles , " the 46-year-old said , weeping . " I want to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? I lost my home and my job . " The Israeli military said it struck hundreds of targets in Rimal , an upscale district home to ministries of the Hamas-run government , universities , media organisations and the aid agency offices . The devastation signalled what appeared to be a new Israeli tactic : warning civilians to leave certain areas and then hitting those areas with unprecedented intensity . On Tuesday afternoon , the military told residents of another nearby neighbourhood to evacuate and move into the centre of Gaza City . " There is no safe place in Gaza right now , you see decent people being killed every day , " Hasan Jabar , a Gaza journalist , said after three other Palestinian journalists were killed in the Rimal bombardment . " I am genuinely afraid for my life . " Tuesday afternoon , Hamas fired barrages of rockets toward the southern Israeli city of Ashkelon and Tel Aviv . There were no immediate reports of casualties . The bombardments and Israel 's threats to topple Hamas sharpened questions about the group 's strategy and objectives . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ face of the ferocity of Israel 's retaliation and the potential of losing much of its government infrastructure . Hours after Saturday 's incursion began , a senior Hamas official Saleh al-Arouri said the group had planned for all possibilities , including " all-out war , " and was ready to suffer " severe blows " . Desperation has grown among Palestinians , many of whom see nothing to lose under unending Israeli control and increasing settlements in the West Bank , the blockade in Gaza and what they see as the world 's apathy . Al-Arouri 's comments suggested Hamas expected the fight to spread to the West Bank and possibly for Lebanon 's Hezbollah to open a front in the north . But despite some eruptions of violence , neither has happened on a significant scale , especially amid a heavy Israeli lockdown on West Bank Palestinians . In hopes of blunting the bombardment , Hamas has threatened to kill one Israeli civilian captive any time Israel targets civilians in their homes in Gaza " without prior warning " . Israel 's foreign minister , Eli Cohen , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be forgiven . Israel , in turn , appears determined to crush Hamas no matter the cost . The militants ' attack stunned Israel with a death toll unseen since the 1973 war with Egypt and Syria -- and those deaths happened over a longer period of time . It brought horrific scenes of Hamas militant gunning down civilians in their cars on the road , in streets of towns , and at a music festival attended by thousands in the desert near Gaza , while dragging men , women and children into captivity . US President Joe Biden is scheduled to speak Tuesday with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu about coordination with allies to " defend Israel and innocent people against terrorism , " the White House said . The Israeli military said Tuesday that more than 1,000 people have been killed in Israel . In Gaza and the West Bank , 830 people have been killed , according to authorities there ; Israel says hundreds of Hamas fighters are among them . Thousands have been wounded on both sides . The bodies of roughly 1,500 Hamas militants were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was n't immediately clear whether those numbers overlapped with deaths previously reported by Palestinian authorities . In Gaza , more than 187,000 people have fled their homes , the UN said , the most since a 2014 air and ground offensive by Israel uprooted about 400,000 . The vast majority are sheltering in schools run by UNRWA , the UN agency for Palestinian refugees . Damage to three water and sanitation sites have cut off services to 400,000 people , the UN said . On Monday , Israel announced a " complete siege " on the territory , halting deliveries of food , fuel , water , medicines , electricity and other supplies . That leaves the only access in and out through the Rafah crossing with Egypt . But that too was shut down Tuesday after Israeli strikes raised palls of smoke nearby and sent families waiting with suitcases for a chance to get out running for cover . A day earlier , the Egyptian Red Crescent managed to get in one shipment of medical supplies . Egyptian officials were talking with Israel and the US , pushing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an Egyptian official said . There were negotiations with the Israelis to declare the area around the Rafah crossing between Egypt and Gaza as a " no fire zone " , the official said , speaking on condition of anonymity because he was not authorised to talk to the media . The UN 's World Health Organisation echoed the call for humanitarian corridors . It said that supplies it had pre-positioned for seven hospitals in Gaza have already run out amid the flood of wounded . " With the number of casualties currently coming in , these hospitals are now running beyond their capacity , " WHO spokesman Tarik Jazarevic told reporters in Geneva . The head of the medical aid group Doctors Without Borders said surgical equipment , antibiotics , fuel and other supplies were running out at two hospitals it runs in Gaza as well . In a briefing Tuesday , army spokesperson Lt Col Richard Hecht suggested Palestinians should try to leave through the Rafah border crossing with Egypt . The prospect of an exodus of Gazans into its territory has alarmed Egyptian officials . After Hecht @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is close to security agencies , quoted an unnamed security official pushing back . " The occupation government is forcing Palestinians to choose between dying under bombardment or leaving their land , " the official was quoted as saying . Meanwhile in the West Bank , Palestinians entered a fourth day under severe movement restrictions . Israeli authorities have sealed off crossings to the occupied territory and closed checkpoints , blocking movement between cities and towns . Clashes between rock-throwing Palestinians and Israeli forces in the territory since the start of the incursion have left 15 Palestinians dead , according to the UN . ( AP ) SCYSCY <p> ( This story has not been edited by THE WEEK and is auto-generated from PTI )
