<p> Kathmandu , Oct 8 ( PTI ) Casualties are feared among Nepalese students who went missing after the attack by the Hamas militant group in the southern part of Israel , Foreign Minister N P Saud said on Sunday . Four Nepalese students studying in Israel have been injured and 11 are still missing after Hamas militants attacked a farm , he said . " Contact could not be established with 11 Nepalese students and heavy casualties among them are feared , " Foreign Minister Saud told PTI . " We are trying to ascertain the exact number of casualties , " he added . Citing sources at the Nepalese Embassy in Israel , Nepalese media here reported that 10 Nepali students were killed in the attack . However , the Foreign Ministry sources said they are trying to ascertain how many Nepalese nationals have died . There were 17 Nepalese students in Kibbutz Alumim in southern Israel , under the learn and earn programme . Out of 17 , two managed to escape safely and four of them sustained injuries , according to Foreign Ministry sources . The injured Nepalese students are undergoing treatment in a hospital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ working as caregivers and 265 Nepalese students currently working in various agricultural firms under the learn and earn scheme . The Foreign Ministry has strongly condemned the attack in Israel by the Hamas group . The Nepal government has taken the incident seriously , the ministry said in a statement . The Government of Nepal has formed a mechanism headed by Saud aimed at rescuing Nepali citizens currently in Israel , according to the ministry . " The mechanism will continuously monitor the situation , evaluate the conditions faced by Nepali citizens , make necessary decisions regarding rescue operations , and coordinate and cooperate for the same effectively , " Saud told the Parliament on Sunday . Israel witnessed a surprise and unprecedented attack by the Hamas group , which rules the Gaza Strip , in its southern parts on Saturday morning . At least 600 people , including soldiers , have been killed and more than 1,900 injured in Israel -- the deadliest day for the country in at least 50 years . In the Gaza Strip , there are nearly 300 deaths and about 1,500 wounded in Israel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( This story has not been edited by THE WEEK and is auto-generated from PTI )
