<p> Mumbai , Oct 10 ( PTI ) Actor Nushrratt Bharuccha on Tuesday said the 36 hours she spent stuck in Israel after being stranded in the country following the attack by Hamas militants were the " most unforgettable and daunting " of her life . The actor had flown to Israel to attend the Haifa International Film Festival for the screening of her film " Akelli " , a thriller about an ordinary Indian woman trapped in a combat zone . The film also stars Israeli actors Tsahi Halevi and Amir Boutrous . " The last week will forever remain etched in my memory ... a rollercoaster ride of emotions , the final 36 hours of which will remain the most unforgettable and daunting of my life , " she said in a video posted on Instagram . Nushrratt said she was accompanied to the festival by the film 's producer and her stylist . The actor said they had almost ended their trip on a celebratory note on October 6 with a promise to meet again , but then the attacks happened . " We 'd said our goodbyes and were ready to fly back the next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evening 's celebration . We were woken up to the deafening sounds of bombs going off , a blaring siren , and complete and utter panic as we were all rushed down into a ' shelter ' in the basement of our hotel . It was only when we emerged from there , after what seemed like an endless wait , that we learnt that Israel was under attack . Nothing could have prepared us for this news , " she added . Nushrratt , 38 , said their first impulse was to contact the Indian Embassy , but reaching there seemed completely impossible due to the explosions . The actor said she soon realised that it may get difficult for them to reach the airport for the scheduled flight to India and started making " desperate " calls for help . " We kept track of official advisories issued by the Indian Government and connected with the Indian and Israeli embassies for details about the escalating situation outside , who were extremely helpful in guiding us . " Nushrratt said while there was panic at the cellular network got @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quarters-- calls from her Israeli co-actors , guidance from the Indian and Israeli embassies , the hotel staff and the taxi driver who selflessly helped in the moment of crisis . " We mustered all the courage we could find and picked ourselves up to somehow get to the airport and take any flight out to any country we could manage to . " ... What would otherwise have been routine was an uncertain and completely unpredictable few hours , to say the very least . With every small postponement announced , we despaired further , our hearts sinking again ... surreal is a very weak word to describe how exactly we felt when we were finally airborne . " The actor said having escaped a war zone , she can not be more grateful to be back home and with her family . " I am ever so grateful to the Government of India , the Indian Embassy and the Israeli Embassy , for their help and guidance in bringing my team and me back safely . I would also like to thank each and every one of my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and prayers for my safety , " she said . The Israel-Hamas conflict has entered the fourth day and it has already claimed at least 1,600 lives on both sides . This includes 788 killed and 4,100 others injured on the Gaza side . Following the brutal attacks by Hamas militants on Saturday morning in the southern areas of the Jewish state , backed by a barrage of rockets that hit even the central parts of the country , Israeli warplanes have pounded downtown Gaza City , home to Hamas ' centres of government . <p> ( This story has not been edited by THE WEEK and is auto-generated from PTI )
