<h> Gaza 's desperate civilians search for food , water and safety , as warnings of Israeli offensive mount <p> DEIR AL-BALAH ( Gaza Strip ) , Oct 15:Gaza 's 2.3 million civilians faced a deepening struggle for food , water and safety Sunday and braced for a looming invasion a week after Hamas militants launched a deadly assault on Israel . While hundreds of thousands sought to heed Israel 's order to evacuate the north , others huddled at hospitals there . Israeli forces , supported by a growing deployment of US warships in the region , positioned themselves along Gaza 's border and drilled for what Israel said would be a broad campaign to dismantle the militant group . A week of blistering airstrikes have demolished entire neighbourhoods but failed to stem militant rocket fire into Israel . The Gaza Health Ministry said 2,329 Palestinians have been killed since the fighting erupted , more than in the 2014 Gaza war , which lasted over six weeks . That makes this the deadliest of the five Gaza wars for both sides . More than 1,300 Israelis have been killed , the vast majority of them civilians killed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war for Israel since the 1973 conflict with Egypt and Syria . Israel dropped leaflets over Gaza City in the north and renewed warnings on social media , ordering more than 1 million Palestinians -- almost half the territory 's population -- to move south . The military says it is trying to clear away civilians ahead of a major campaign against Hamas militants in the north , including in what it said were underground hideouts in Gaza City . Hamas urged people to stay in their homes . The military said Sunday that it would refrain from targeting a single route south from 10 am to 1 pm , again urging Palestinians to leave the north en masse . The military offered two corridors and a longer window the day before . The UN and aid groups have said that such a rapid exodus , along with Israel 's complete siege of the 40-kilometre-long ( 25-mile-long ) coastal territory would cause untold human suffering . The World Health Organisation said the evacuation " could be tantamount to a death sentence " for the more than 2,000 patients in northern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ care . Gaza 's hospitals are expected to run out of generator fuel within two days , according to the UN , which said that that would endanger the lives of thousands of patients . Gaza was already in a humanitarian crisis due to a growing shortage of water and medical supplies caused by the Israeli siege , which has also forced the enclave 's sole electrical plant to shut down . With some bakeries closing , residents said they were unable to buy bread . In Gaza City , Haifa Khamis al-Shurafa crowded into a car with six family members , fleeing to the south in the darkness . " We do n't deserve this , " Shurafa said , before leaving her home city . " We did n't kill anyone . " The Israeli military said " hundreds of thousands " of Palestinians had heeded the warning and headed south . It gave Palestinians a six-hour window that ended Saturday afternoon to travel safely within Gaza along two main routes , but has not set a firm deadline for the evacuation . The US has been trying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Gaza to allow Americans and other foreigners to leave and humanitarian aid amassed on the Egyptian side to be brought in . The crossing , which was closed because of airstrikes early in the war , has yet to reopen . Hundreds of relatives of the estimated 150 people captured by Hamas in Israel and taken to Gaza meanwhile gathered outside the Israeli Defense Ministry in Tel Aviv , demanding their release . " This is my cry out to the world : Please help bring my family , my wife and three kids , " said Avihai Brodtz of Kfar Azza . Many expressed anger toward the government , saying they still have no information about their loved ones . In a televised address Saturday night , Israel 's chief military spokesman , Rear Adm . Daniel Hagari , accused Hamas of trying to use civilians as human shields . " We are going to attack Gaza City very broadly soon , " he said , without giving a timetable for the attack . The military said Sunday an airstrike in southern Gaza had killed a Hamas commander @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ communities Hamas had attacked in southern Israel . Israel said it struck over 100 military targets overnight , including command centres and rocket launchers . Israel has called up some 360,000 military reserves and massed troops and tanks along the border with Gaza . Israelis living near the Gaza border , including residents of the town of Sderot , continued to be evacuated . Militants in Gaza have fired over 5,500 rockets since the hostilities erupted , many reaching reaching deep into Israel , as Israeli warplanes pound Gaza . US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin said late Saturday that the US was moving a second carrier strike group , the USS Dwight D. Eisenhower , to the eastern Mediterranean , in a show of force meant to deter any allies of Hamas , such as Iran or Lebanon 's Hezbollah militant group , from seeking to widen the war . US Secretary of State Antony Blinken meanwhile met with Saudi Arabia 's Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman in Riyadh as the Biden administration scrambles to prevent a wider regional conflict . Prince Mohammed is the sixth Arab leader Blinken has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hamas remained defiant . In a televised speech Saturday , Ismail Haniyeh , a top official based abroad , said that " all the massacres " will not break the Palestinian people . Hamas spokesperson Jihad Taha told The Associated Press in Beirut that Israel " does not dare to fight a ground battle , " because of the captives . He alluded to the possible entry of Hezbollah and other regional players in the battle should Israel launch a ground invasion but declined to say whether they had made any concrete commitments . An Israeli airstrike near the Jabaliya refugee camp in northern Gaza killed at least 27 people and wounded another 80 , Gaza health authorities said . Most of the victims were women and children , the authorities said . Doctors from Kamal Edwan Hospital shared footage of charred and disfigured bodies . It was not clear how many Palestinians remained in northern Gaza by Saturday afternoon , said Juliette Touma , a spokesperson for the UN agency for Palestinian refugees . An estimated 1 million people have been displaced in Gaza in one week , she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a crowd of men , women and children that medical officials estimated at 35,000 crammed into the hospital 's lobby and bloodied hallways and under the trees on the hospital grounds , hoping the facility would be spared in the coming attack . " People think this is the only safe space after their homes were destroyed and they were forced to flee , " said Dr. Medhat Abbas , a Health Ministry official . Basic necessities were running out because of the siege , which Israel has said will only be lifted when the captives are returned . Water has stopped coming out of taps across the territory . Amal Abu Yahia , a 25-year-old pregnant mother in the Jabaliya refugee camp , said she waited anxiously for the few minutes when contaminated water trickles from the pipes in her basement . She rations it , prioritizing her 5-year-old son and 3-year-old daughter . She said she is drinking so little herself , she only urinates every other day . Near the coast , the only tap water is contaminated with Mediterranean Sea water because of the lack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his neighbours in Gaza City have taken to drinking the salt water . The Israeli military 's evacuation order demands the territory 's entire population cram into the southern half of Gaza as Israel continues strikes , including in the south . The Hamas communications office said Israel has destroyed over 7,000 housing units so far . The UN refugee agency for Palestinians expressed concern for those who could not leave , " particularly pregnant women , children , older persons and persons with disabilities . " The agency also called for Israel to not target civilians , hospitals , schools , clinics and UN locations . Al-Shifa hospital was receiving hundreds of wounded every hour and had used up 95 per cent of its medical supplies , hospital director Mohammad Abu Selim said . Water is scarce and the fuel powering its generators is dwindling . " The situation inside the hospital is miserable in every sense of the word , " he said . " The operating rooms do n't stop . " ( AP )
