<h> Hamas-Israel war and India <p> Prof M K Bhat The unprecedented air , sea and land terror attack by Hamas on 6th October on Israel in last somedays has grown in a full-fledged war and has divided world into two groups , one supporting Hamas and the other supporting Israel . At present almost all the developed countries of west stand for Israel and some Muslim countries have come in support of Hamas . America has decided to support Israel militarily , besides America , France , Germany , U.K , Canada etc. and NATO have extended their support to Israel while as Iran , Iraq , Kuwait , Lebanon , Qatar , Egypt , Jordan , Yemen and Pakistan etc. support Hamas . Some Countries like China , Russia and India have given reactions in a different way . The presence of America has provoked Russia to support Palestine and it holds USA responsible for the present crises , China has given a neutral reaction but worked for bringing Saudi Arabia and Iran close to each other as they were arch rivals before the attack . India with zero tolerance for terrorism has denounced the action of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Modi added that " India strongly and unequivocally condemns terrorism in all its forms and manifestations . " Indian prime minister tweeted that India stands with Israel in this hour of crises . Hezbollah attacked Israel from Lebanon and Iran is suspected behind Hamas attack . Israel retaliated back and declared war against Hamas and vowed to win the war . It has resorted to heavy shelling in Gaza Strip and has regained back its areas . The Hamas attack caught Israel unaware as it was celebrating ' Simchat Tohra ' one of the holiest days in Jewish calendar . The failure of Israeli security intelligence agencies was emphatically clear for they failed to see such a big preparation taking place in their backyard . It has created jubilation at certain places and anguish among Jews . The media is abuzz with inhuman acts of Hamas by showing its ill treatment to Jewish children , women , foreign nationals , disrespect to dead soldiers and civilians on the one side and on the other it conveys a sordid picture of destruction being carried by Israeli army in retaliation . Over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nations shelters as Israeli warplanes pound the tiny territory of 2.3 million people after Hamas launched its attack . Hamas in the initial stage took certain Israeli nationals as hostage and has started to use them as bargaining chips against Israel . The barbaric attitude of Hamas got condemnation from various countries and got a bad name for their co -religionists worldwide . Hamas holds Israel responsible for the bombing of Al -Aqsa Masjid and Israel holds the attack by Hamas as worst terrorist act on Israel since world -war Second . It is worthwhile to mention here that there has been no change in the animosity between Palestine and Israel despite the disengagement under Prime Minister Ariel Sharon in 2005 . The present attack will jeopardize the hope of normalization of relations between Arab Nations and Israel . It will deteriorate the growing trust between some Arab countries and Israel , courtesy Biden administration . Secondly Hamas by naming its operation as a revenge for Masjid AL Aqsa has given sanctity to the attack especially among the Muslim countries . They hope this will earn goodwill for them from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a densely populated area and the attack will cause damage to the civilians and thereby the outcry will create sympathy wave for Hamas and will help it to keep alive the flame of hatred against Israel . It has come to notice that Hamas has built its bunkers near or under public places like hospitals , schools etc. fourthly the present attack is an eye opener for countries which bear borders with enemy countries , India is a case in point . Lastly the attack once again confirms no change in the wrath of neighboring Muslim countries towards Israel , which it has been facing since its inception . Israel had no chance but to retaliate as its security arrangements , art of technology were floundered by five to seven thousand rockets used by Hamas in twenty minutes . It is worthwhile to mention here that Israel ca n't afford to compromise even an inch of their land owing to the sacrifices they have undergone since world war 11nd , when Adolf Hitler adopted inhuman attitude towards Jewish people and on the contrary Arab world has neither accepted Israel as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action will also be taken by Israel at present owing to the compulsions before Benjamin Netanyahu at the domestic front . Moreso these compulsions has come from the crushed morale , national trauma and intelligence failure so in order to compensate these disturbances the Benjamin Netanyahu will strike hard on Gaza and may try to capture it as a victory to outdo the bad name . If this terror attack is not dealt seriously it may lead to the encouragement of other terror groups and such acts can be visible in different countries of the world in future . If the war continues , it will create further ruckus in Global economy which is already plagued by international economic slowdown , supply chain disruptions due to Russia Ukraine war , and covid 19 epidemic aftereffects . Although Palestine and Israel are not big oil producing countries yet the likely involvement of other Muslim countries with major oil production can lead to further inflation in the world . The price of crude oil has started to increase from Monday itself . The price of gold too has escalated . India ca @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ import bill being dominated by oil imports , so any rise in oil prices will lead to inflation in the country and may restrict our economic growth . It may weaken rupee and strengthen dollar and may also make gold more attractive to invest . Dollar and gold will be safe investment for the investors . The trade between India and Israel stood at $10.1 billion in the financial year 2022-23 . India 's exports to Israel account to 1.8 % of India 's total merchandise exports , India bears a favourable trade of nearly Six billion dollars with Israel . India imports machinery , pearls , diamond and precious stones from Israel and exports mainly Petroleum products to it . The war has led to political disruption in India as there are some who denounce the Hamas attack on Israel and term it as an act of barbarism unleashed on Israel while as there are certain other sections of society who stand with the inhuman behaviour of Hamas . There were demonstrations from both sides . It has grown into a political issue because of elections being round the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with India . Certain opposition parties believe that the present Government has deviated from its past on Palestine/Israel issue by opposing Hamas -- a militant group . They in order to speak against the Narendra Modi Govt sometimes neglect the interests of the country . Congress working committee has openly supported Hamas . It is an attempt to woo Muslims despite the fact that India bears zero tolerance against terrorism . BJP has termed this support of congress as a part of its appeasement policy . The political parties in India pursue the current war as per their sectarian ends but they ca n't absolve themselves of their responsibilities towards the country . They have to clear their stand regarding terrorism . ( The author is Professor at Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University , Delhi )
