<p> London , Oct 19 : Britain 's King Charles III has made a plea for religious tolerance and the importance of a multi-faith outlook as he mourned the loss of lives in times of international turmoil , an indirect reference to the Israel-Gaza conflict in the Middle East . In a speech at Mansion House in the City of London on Wednesday evening , the 74-year-old monarch described the UK as a " community of communities " where shared values are the force holding it together and reminding that " there is far , far more that unites us than divides us " . He stressed that British society was nurtured and enriched by citizens from the four corners of the globe , drawing upon deep wells filled with shared histories and experiences . " One of my first acts as Sovereign , a little over a year ago , was to open the doors of Buckingham Palace to the leaders of the major faiths represented across these islands ; to welcome them , with respect and indeed love , and to re-dedicate my life to protecting the space for faith itself within our shores , " said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and overseas , is never more vital than at times of international turmoil and heartbreaking loss of life ... Even in the most fractious times -- when disagreements are polished , paraded and asserted -- there is in our land a kind of muscle-memory that it does not have to be like this ; that the temptation to turn ourselves into a shouting or recriminatory society must be resisted , " he said . The King called for the moderating forces of " civility and tolerance , on which our political life and wider national conversation depend " and warned against the " rancour and acrimony " of social media . In the wide-ranging speech , the monarch also reflected upon the advancement of science and the impact of artificial intelligence ( AI ) . On a lighter note , he highlighted the importance of a healthy sense of humour that characterises British life . " The British sense of humour is world-renowned . It is not what we do . It is who we are . Our ability to laugh at ourselves is one of our great national characteristics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some of the vicissitudes I have faced with frustratingly failing fountain pens this past year , " he said , with reference to a number of times when his pen malfunctioned while signing important documents in the past year . The speech at Mansion House marks the symbolic arrival of a new monarch in the City of London , the financial hub of the UK capital . The ceremony dates as far back as the 14th century , in which the Pearl Sword is presented to the monarch who then returns it to the Lord Mayor of the City of London . The sword is in a scabbard covered with 2,600 pearls and the ceremony is a symbolic show of mutual respect between two historical powerbases -- the British monarchy and the City of London . ( PTI )
