<h> India for strict observance of humanitarian law <p> Days after an attack on a hospital in Gaza triggered global outrage , India today called for strict observance of international humanitarian law . External Affairs Ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said India is concerned over civilian casualties and the humanitarian situation . We would urge strict observance of international humanitarian law , he said at his weekly media briefing while replying to questions on the attack on the hospital this week . We have strongly condemned the horrific attack on Israel , Bagchi said , adding the international community must stand together in combating terrorism in all its forms . On the Palestine issue , he said India reiterated its position in favour of direct negotiations for a two-state solution . Around 470 people were reported to have been killed on Tuesday in the explosion on the al-Ahli Arab Hospital in Gaza , triggering strong international condemnation . Palestinian authorities blamed Israeli air strikes for the explosion at the hospital while Israel said it was caused by a misfired rocket launched from Gaza by militant group Palestinian Islamic Jihad . Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday expressed shock at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that those involved in civilian casualties in the ongoing conflict should be held responsible . " Deeply shocked at the tragic loss of lives at the Al Ahli Hospital in Gaza . Our heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims , and prayers for speedy recovery of those injured , " Modi said on X. " Civilian casualties in the ongoing conflict are a matter of serious and continuing concern . Those involved should be held responsible , " he said . The conflict has been triggered by unprecedented and multi-pronged attacks against Israel by Hamas militants from Gaza since October 7 . Israel has launched a massive counter offensive in Gaza to avenge the attacks . According to the Gaza Health Ministry , over 3,300 people have been killed and over 12,000 wounded in Gaza since the conflict began . Around 1400 people in Israel have been killed and 3,800 injured in the deadly attack by militant group Hamas since October 7 . Nearly 200 others were abducted by Hamas . ( PTI )
