<h> UN , world need to play role in ending Israel-Palestine conflict : Omar <p> Srinagar , Oct 24 : National Conference Vice President Omar Abdullah said today that the United Nations and the world need to play a more active role in ending the Israel-Palestine conflict , as countless innocent lives are lost daily in relentless Gaza bombing . Speaking to the media here over the ongoing Israel-Palestine conflict , Abdullah said every day they hear about the bombing on Gaza through the media or TV , in which innocent civilians , including children and women who have nothing to do with the attack on Israel , are being killed . " We have been opposing whatever has been happening in Gaza right from day one . Killing innocent people like this is beyond comprehension . They are mercilessly being targeted , " he said . Click here to watch video He said that it seems that Israel is having a free hand on this matter , and the world has proved that there are different laws for Israel and Russia . " When Russia blocked the gas in Ukraine and tried to block water and food , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crime . If what Russia did to Ukraine was a war crime , is not what Israel is doing to Gaza a war crime ? It is simple : if that was wrong , why is n't this wrong ? The world needs to know whether that is right or whether this is right , " he said . He said that the Central Government has not hidden anything in the matter , and they have supported Israel right from day one . " After witnessing the killing of innocent people , they ( Government ) think about sending aid , but that is equivalent to a drop in the ocean . Not even 20 trucks are allowed to go to Gaza , where 100 trucks would usually go . What would a population of lakhs do with 10 -- 20 trucks ? " he said . Abdullah said that the bombing should stop , and the innocent people who are being targeted in this bombing should stop . " If the tensions escalate beyond Gaza , our people who are working in the Middle East would get affected , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should stop . The UN and other nations must provide justice , and separate laws for different countries can not happen , " he said . He said that the UN has not been completely silent over the issue ; they have talked in between but failed to have the desired impact . " The humanitarian crisis that is evolving there , they talked over that , but because Israel is getting support from the USA and Europe , that is why we are not witnessing the type of expected impact of the UN , " he said .
