<p> The United Nations General Assembly on October 27 ( local time ) adopted a resolution calling for an " immediate , durable and sustained humanitarian truce " between Israeli forces and Hamas terrorists in Gaza . The Jordanian-led draft resolution has been adopted by the General Assembly , with 120 votes in favour , 14 against and 45 abstentions . The 45 nations that abstained from voting on the resolution included Iceland , India , Panama , Lithuania and Greece . The resolution was adopted during the UN General Assembly 's emergency special session on the Israel-Palestine crisis . <p> Addressing the UN General Assembly , India 's Deputy Permanent Representative to UN , Yojna Patel reiterated India 's zero-tolerance approach to terrorism . " In a world where differences and disputes should be resolved by dialogue , this august body should be deeply concerned at recourse to violence ... The terror attacks in Israel on 7th October were shocking and deserve condemnation . Our thoughts are also with those taken hostages . We call for their immediate and unconditional release . Terrorism is a malignancy and knows no borders , nationality or race ... Let us keep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terrorism . Casualties in the ongoing conflict in Gaza are a telling , serious and continuing concern . Civilians , especially women and children , are paying with their lives ... " said Yojna Patel . " We welcome the international communitys de-escalation efforts and delivery of humanitarian assistance to the people of Gaza . India too has contributed to this effort . India is deeply concerned at the deteriorating security situation and astounding loss of civilian lives in the ongoing conflict ... India has always supported a negotiated two-state solution to the Israel-Palestine issue , leading to the establishment of a sovereign , independent and viable state of Palestine living within secure and recognized borders side by side in peace with Israel ... " she added . <p> This website uses cookie or similar technologies , to enhance your browsing experience and provide personalised recommendations . By continuing to use our website , you agree to our Privacy Policy and Cookie Policy . OK
