<p> Israel has blocked any humanitarian aid from entering the territory since it broke the ceasefire agreement with Hamas in March , throwing Gaza into what is believed to be the worst humanitarian crisis in nearly 19 months of bombings . <p> Israel claims that the blockade and its renewed military campaign are intended to pressure Hamas to release the remaining hostages it still holds and to disarm . <p> Israel 's latest destruction of Gaza followed Hamas 's October 7 2023 attack , in which the militants killed about 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and abducted 251 . Hamas is still holding 59 hostages , 24 of whom are believed to be alive , after most of the rest were released in ceasefire agreements or other deals.As Israel continued its strikes on the Palestinian enclave , another 18 people were killed and dozens more were wounded , Gaza 's Health Ministry said today.Tom Fletcher , the UN under-secretary-general for humanitarian affairs and emergency relief co-ordinator , said today that while the hostages should be released and should never have been taken in the first place , international law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aid , and the civilian lives it saves , should never be a bargaining chip , " he said in a statement . " Blocking aid starves civilians . It leaves them without basic medical support . It strips them of dignity and hope . It inflicts a cruel collective punishment . Blocking aid kills . " The UN Office for the Co-ordination of Humanitarian Affairs has warned of severe shortages of food , water and medicine in Gaza as medical services collapse and charity kitchens shut down because of a lack of supplies.Hospitals have reported that cases of malnourished pregnant and breastfeeding women are rising sharply and most newborns are now being born underweight.Mr Fletcher stressed that " the humanitarian movement is independent , impartial and neutral . We believe that all civilians are equally worthy of protection . " He said that a recent proposal by Israeli authorities regarding ways to distribute aid " does not meet the minimum bar for principled humanitarian support . " Israel has proposed taking over aid distribution in Gaza or using private companies for the distribution.Israeli strikes in Gaza killed more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the overall death toll since the war started to more than 52,400 people , according to the Health Ministry in Gaza.More than 2,300 of the deaths have occurred since Israel unilaterally ended the ceasefire with Hamas on March 18 , it said.The ministry says more than half the dead have been women and children . Israel says that it has killed more than 20,000 militants , without providing details on those deaths.This afternoon , the ministry said the bodies of 18 people and 77 wounded people had arrived at hospitals in the past 24 hours.The bodies of another eight people -- including three children and three women -- arrived at Nasser Hospital in the city of Khan Younis , the hospital said later on Thursday .
