<h> DOCUMENTS <h> Israel-Gaza resolution cost UCT R750m - Adam Mendelsohn <p> Supplementary affidavit says council was not informed of amounts of donor funding being put at risk <p> IN THE HIGH COURT OF SOUTH AFRICA ( WESTERN CAPE DIVISION , CAPE TOWN ) <p> Case No. : 18465/24 <p> In the matter between : <p> ADAM MENDELSOHN <p> and <p> COUNCIL OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CAPE TOWN NORMAN ARENDSE N.O. <p> --&gt; <p> PERSONS LISTED IN ANNEXURE ' A ' UNIVERSITY OF CAPE TOWN <p> First Applicant <p> First Respondent Second Respondent <p> Third to Thirty-First Respondents Thirty-Second Respondent <p> --&gt; <p> AMENDED NOTICE OF MOTION <p> PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that the applicants will apply to this Honourable Court for an order in the following terms : <p> 1 . Declaring that the decisions of the First Respondent taken on 22 June 2024 , to pass two resolutions regarding the Gaza conflict are unlawful , unconstitutional , and invalid , and are reviewed and set aside . <p> 2 . Directing that- <p> --&gt; <p> 2.1 . The Second Respondent , in his personal capacity , pay a percentage to be determined by this Court of the applicant 's costs on an attorney and client scale , including the costs of two counsel on Scale C. <p> 2.2 . The Sixth Respondent , the Ninth Respondent , and the Thirty-First Respondent , in their personal capacity , pay in their personal capacities a percentage to be determined by this Court of the applicant 's costs on an attorney and client scale , including the costs of two counsel on Scale C. <p> 2.3 . Those members of the First Respondent who voted to oppose this application on 19 October 2024 pay in their personal capacities a percentage to be determined by this Court of the applicant 's costs on an attorney and client scale , including the costs of two counsel on Scale C. <p> 2.4 . The First and Thirty-Second Respondents pay , jointly and severally , any remainder of the applicant 's costs on an attorney and client scale , including the costs of two counsel on Scale C. <p> --&gt; <p> 3 . Granting the applicant such further and/or alternative relief as this Honourable Court deems fit . <p> TAKE NOTICE FURTHER that the application will proceed on the terms set out in the notice of motion dated 23 August 2024 . <p> 1 . I am the applicant in this matter . I deposed to the founding affidavit dated 22 August 2024 . <p> 2 . The facts contained in this affidavit fall within my knowledge , save where the contrary is stated or appears from the context . They are true and correct . Where I make submissions of law , I do so on the advice of my legal representatives . <p> 3 . I use the abbreviations and definitions of the founding affidavit in this affidavit . <p> I stand by the allegations in my founding affidavit , and this affidavit should be read alongside the founding affidavit . <p> A. INTRODUCTION <p> 4 . This is a supplementary founding affidavit delivered in terms of rule 53(4) of the Uniform Rules of Court . It supplements my founding affidavit , based on a consideration of the contents of the ( inaccurate and incomplete ) record filed by Council and relevant factual developments that have occurred since instituted this application . <p> 6 . First , since I delivered my founding affidavit , I learned that members of Council 's Executive Committee ( Exco ) deliberately failed to disclose relevant information at the Council meeting of 22 June 2024 . <p> 6.1 . On 23 May 2024 , Exco met . Exco 's members at the time were the Chair of Council ( Mr Arendse ) , as well as Ms Barsel , Mr Campbell , Mr Isaacs , Mr Khorommbi , Professor Ntusi , Ms Yach , and the Vice ? Chancellor ( then Professor Reddy ) . They were all present . <p> 6.2 . At this meeting , the Vice-Chancellor informed Exco that one donor ( the Donald Gordon Foundation , or DGF ) considered UCT in breach of a contract of donation , and another donor ( the Dell Foundation ) was suspending funding to UCT , because of Senate 's resolution to boycott academics affiliated to the IDF . These donations cumulatively amount to many millions of rands , with the DGF donation alone totalling R200 million . <p> 6.3 . So , the members of Exco knew that Senate 's resolution , if endorsed by Council , could cost UCT over R200 million in donations . The Chair , in particular , stressed the " importance of keeping discussions going " ( i.e. with donors ) , and that Senate 's resolution would become final only if adopted by the Council . <p> 6.4 . I attach the minutes of the May Exco meeting as SFA1 . <p> 6.5 . All the Exco members were present at Council 's meeting on 22 June 2024 , but according to the minutes Mr Isaacs and Professor Ntusi had left the meeting by the time the impugned resolutions came up for discussion . <p> 6.6 . During the Council meeting , while the question of passing the impugned resolutions was being debated , members of Council expressly asked about the potential implications of doing so for UCT ; raised the question of how a decision of this magnitude could be made without an analysis of possible consequences ; said that it was necessary to think about what the implications would be for UCT if Council were to adopt the resolutions ; and said that it would be the height of irrationality to adopt a motion without knowing what the consequences of doing so are . Specifically , the possibility that UCT would lose funding was raised . <p> 6.7 . None of the Exco members present disclosed to Council that the resolutions , if passed , could imminently cost the university more than R200 million , despite their knowledge of this fact . None of them revealed to Council the information they had about DGF and the Dell Foundation . <p> 6.8 . They failed to disclose this deliberately , in bad faith , and in breach of their fiduciary duties . <p> 6.9 . Exco members understood that the financial implications of the resolutions were relevant to Council 's decision . Members of Council expressly asked about the implications for the university if Council adopted the resolution . But the Exco members sat silent , allowing Council members to vote on a resolution without saying that doing so may very well imminently cost the university over R200 million . <p> 7 . In the report of 19 November 2024 prepared by Justice Kriegler , Professor Mosia and Ms Pillay SC into changes made to the Wilgenhof Panel 's report to the Council of the University of Stellenbosch about the possible closure of the Wilgenhof residence , the following is said ( at paragraph 66.1 ) : " A chairperson should always disclose significant circumstances in the interests of transparency and good governance . " In the case of UCT , not only the Chair of Council , but also the other members of Exco who were present during the relevant part of the Council meeting of 22 June 2024 , failed in this obvious duty . Their deliberate non-disclosure of material facts suffices to set aside the resolutions . <p> 8 . Secondly , Council 's decision has jeopardised the donation of a hospital to UCT . <p> 8.1 . Dr Susan Tager , who is a neurologist and the chief executive officer of the Wits Donald Gordon Medical Centre ( WDGMC ) , has deposed to a supporting affidavit , which will be filed along with this affidavit . She is a trustee of the DGF . <p> 8.2 . In her affidavit , Dr Tager explains that the DGF donated R120 million to the University of Witwatersrand in 2002 to establish Africa 's first ( and only ) private academic hospital . The hospital services patients predominantly from Gauteng . Since its establishment , the hospital has generated a further approximately R550 million in profit that has been used to train medical specialists and sub-specialists . The market value of the hospital is between R500 and R600 million today . <p> 8.3 . As is apparent from Dr Tager 's evidence , the WDGMC is a resounding success story . It trains much-needed medical specialists . It provides world-class medical care , including for those who can not afford it . It funds itself and uses its profits to train doctors . <p> 8.4 . The DGF intended to establish another hospital , modelled on the WDGMC , at UCT . In 2023 and 2024 , the DGF was in serious discussions with UCT . The DGF intended either to buy the current UCT academic hospital ( which is not owned by the university ) for UCT , or to provide funds to UCT to establish an entirely new hospital replicating the WDGMC . <p> 8.5 . The DGF was looking to donate R400 to R500 million to UCT to this end . <p> 8.6 . The discussions between the DGF and UCT have broken down as a direct result of Council 's resolutions . Given Council 's breach of contract with the DGF , the DGF can not continue working with UCT . <p> 8.7 . The point is a simple one : Council had no idea of this profound ramification when it passed its resolutions . It failed to consider - entirely - how passing the resolutions could cost UCT half a billion rand and a new hospital which would serve as a training facility for doctors . The loss is not only to UCT , but also to healthcare more generally . <p> 8.8 . Council 's failure to consider this plainly relevant factor suffices to set aside its decision . <p> 8.9 . Council 's failure speaks to a lapse in governance of severe proportions . Council was obliged to investigate and consider the ramifications its decision may have for the university . Had it conducted even a cursory inquiry , it would have learned that its decision would jeopardise one of the most significant donations to UCT in recent years ( and a donation aimed at serving the broader Western Cape ) . Council members breached their fiduciary duties to UCT by passing the resolutions in total , and indeed wilful , ignorance of this consequence . <p> 9 . Thirdly , since I launched this application , Council has acted contrary to its duties of good governance , its duties to this Court - and in fact has conceded the merits of this application . <p> 9.1 . One , Council has refused to provide a complete rule 53 record . <p> Council persistently refused to provide a recording or transcript of its meeting of 22 June 2024 , despite tendering that transcript to me ( which tender was accepted ) and despite having no basis whatsoever on which to withhold that transcript from this Court . In fact , Council decided not to disclose a transcript or recording of its meeting . Council has a number of lawyers among its members . It has attorneys and counsel advising it . It Is inconceivable , in the light of legal authority on the duty of discovery that rests on a public body whose decision is being challenged , that Council could have thought that it was entitled not to disclose the transcript or recording . It has only recently provided a transcript , as I shall describe below , but names of speakers have been redacted . <p> 9.2 . Two , Council has already decided to oppose this application . This decision is inexplicable . Council decided to oppose this application before filing a rule 53 record and before seeing my supplementary affidavit . Council , moreover , decided to oppose this application despite a large minority of members voting against the resolutions and against opposing this application . Worse still , when called upon to explain why it opposes this application before seeing my final grounds of review , and despite discord among its members , Council refused to give any reasons . <p> 9.3 . Three - and this should be the end of the matter - Council conceded in correspondence that it failed to consider relevant documents at its meeting of 22 June 2024 . The Chair of Council purported to file a rule 53 record including numerous documents that appeared not to have been before Council when Council passed the resolutions . The Chair explained that all these documents were " relevant " to Council 's decision . After Council had ratified the steps previously taken by the Chair and thereby endorsed the rule 53 record as filed by him , I wrote to Council to ask which of the " relevant " documents filed were before it when Council passed the resolutions . The answer : only one page of the 101 pages filed by the Chair was before Council . The implication : Council has conceded that it failed to consider relevant documents . This suffices to set aside the decision . <p> 10 . Fourthly , UCT has suspended me from my position as Head of the History Department because I brought this application . UCT is " investigating " whether , by bringing this application , I acted " unprofessionally " and " neglected " my leadership duties . The point , for the purposes of this application , is simple : UCT has plainly committed itself to censoring freedom of expression and academic freedom - so much so that it has retaliated against the mere bringing of an application that asserts the constitutional right to freedom of expression . <p> 11 . Finally , this case has very little to do with Israel and the legality of its conduct in Gaza . This case concerns Council 's statutory duty ( " must " ) to govern UCT . It concerns the question of whether Council acted in the best interests of the university . It is concerned with whether Council 's process leading to the resolutions accords with the principle of legality , good governance , and fiduciary duties owed to UCT . It concerns whether Council can ever limit academic freedom in the manner it has purported to do in this matter . These are issues of principle and process . They do not turn on the facts particular to Israel , Gaza , and the Middle East . <p> 12.3 . How the factual developments and the rule 53 record support the grounds of review advanced in the founding affidavit and introduce further grounds of review . <p> 12.4 . Remedy and costs , including personal costs . <p> B. RELEVANT FACTUAL DEVELOPMENTS <p> ( i ) August and September 2024 <p> 13 . I initiated this application on 23 August 2024 . <p> 14 . On 29 August 2024 , UCT ( as the thirty-second respondent ) appointed Fairbridges Wertheim Becker ( FWB ) as its attorneys . <p> 15 . On 2 September 2024 , Mr Kessler Perumalsamy ( the twenty-sixth respondent ) filed a notice to abide by this Court 's decision . <p> 16 . On 5 September 2024 , four Council members wrote to the Chairperson ( SFA2 ) . Their letter is destructive of any possible defence to this application . <p> 16.1 . At some date prior , Council members had been informed that legal representatives had been appointed to provide Council with an opinion on my application . <p> 16.2 . The letter reveals that Council itself did not decide to appoint legal representatives : that decision appears to have been taken unilaterally by the Chair . The letter explains that Council did not have an opportunity to consider , inter a ! ia , the cost implications of appointing lawyers , the grounds of review in my application , who should be briefed ( if anyone ) , the scope of the brief , and the instructions in the brief . <p> 16.3 . The Chair appears to have decided all these important issues himself , without consulting Council . He seems to have informed Council that it will meet after 30 September 2024 , by which time Council should have the opinion from the briefed legal representatives . <p> 16.4 . The letter includes a request for three documents that I alleged in my founding affidavit Council had failed to consider before passing the resolutions : the two legal opinions on the Council 's powers ( para 54 ) and the DGF donor contract ( para 52.5 ) . The letter confirms - unequivocally - that Council failed to consider those materially relevant documents . Council members were unaware of their existence . The decision to pass the resolutions can be set aside without more . <p> 16.5 . The letter also includes a request for the brief provided to Council 's legal representatives and for the contents of the rule 53 record UCT intends to file . <p> 16.6 . Council members had requested these documents previously from the Chair , but he failed to provide them . This letter was a repeat of the request for these documents . The letter records that the Chair had previously refused to . disclose these documents to Council members because they are " confidential " . Again , this confirms that Council failed to consider these relevant documents before passing the resolution . <p> 16.7 . Council members expressed grave concerns about the process leading up to passing the resolutions . They in fact confirm my grounds of review ; they allege that the process was irrational and unlawful . <p> 16.8 . With respect to the legal opinions , they record that the failure to inform Council of these constituted " a serious governance failure " that prevented members from exercising their fiduciary duties . They explain that whether the legal opinions were withheld deliberately or in good faith is irrelevant : in either event Council acted unlawfully by not considering the opinions . <p> 16.9 . As for the donor agreement , the letter reveals the startling fact of which I have made mention above . On 23 May 2024 , Exco met and discussed the fact that if Council passed the resolutions , UCT could lose the R200 million donation made under the donor agreement . When Council members inquired about the financial implications of the resolutions at the meeting of 22 June 2024 , the Exco members present said nothing . They failed to disclose the financial implications of the resolutions , despite knowing that UCT could lose ( at least ) R200 million in donations alone . <p> 16.10 . As it turns out , the number is at present between R250 million and R300 million , aside from the donation of a hospital by DGF . I return to this below . <p> 16.11 . The crucial point is this : on these members ' version , my application should succeed . Their letter reveals that there was a serious lapse in governance leading up to the passing of the resolutions . There were material non-disclosures at the Council meeting of 22 June 2024 , including failures to disclose legal opinions and financial implications known to Exco members . <p> 16.12 . The letter , additionally , reveals that Council had no idea of the adverse impact its resolutions would have on the DGF hospital donation to UCT . <p> 17 . On 6 September 2024 , Ms Kelly Phelps , the twenty-seventh respondent , filed a notice to abide . She reserved her right to file an affidavit " for the purpose of placing any facts germane to this application so as to assist the Court " . <p> 18 . On 11 September 2024 , FWB came on record for the Chair of Council ( not Council itself ) and UCT ( cited as the thirty-second respondent ) . <p> 19 . On 13 September 2024 , the Chair and UCT purported to file a record in terms of rule 53 . I annex the index ( SFA3 ) . I shall discuss the contents of this purported record in the next part of this affidavit . For now , I underscore three points . <p> 19.1 . First , it was unclear to me why the Chair and UCT had filed the record . I have impugned Council 's decision . FWB had not come on record for Council ( but only for the Chair and UCT ) . So , the wrong functionaries had filed a record , and Council had failed to file a record . Most importantly , given that Council was only scheduled to meet after 30 September 2024 , it appeared that Council had not been consulted about filing this record . The Chair seems unilaterally to have decided on the contents of the record . <p> 19.2 . Second , the purported record patently included documents that were not before Council before it took its decision , such as a campus announcement ( of 24 June 2024 ) postdating the decision . <p> 19.3 . Third , the purported record failed to include a transcript or recording of Council 's meeting of 22 June 2024 . The minutes revealed that members participated in the meeting via Microsoft Teams . The meeting would therefore have been recorded , but there was no inclusion of this recording in the purported record . <p> 20 . Council should have filed a record in terms of rule 53 by no later than 16 September 2024 . It failed to do so . <p> 21 . On 17 September 2024 , I wrote to Council ( SFA4 ) . <p> 21.1 . I explained that Council was yet to file a record . I afforded Council until 23 September 2024 to file its record . <p> 21.2 . I requested that when Council files its record it provides , as required by rule 53 , ( a ) a recording of its meeting of 22 June 2024 , and ( b ) only those documents that served before it . <p> 22 . Also on 17 September 2024 , News24 published two op-eds on my application . <p> The one supports my application ( SFAS ) and the other does not ( SFA6 ) . I attach these articles to reiterate a point I made in my founding affidavit and as being relevant to Council 's policy on when to issue public statements . The issues arising from Israel 's war against Hamas in Gaza are polarising , complex , and subject to robust debate . Reasonable people in good faith disagree about Israeli and Palestinian issues . Accordingly , those issues are not of the kind that Council can pronounce on - certainly not by precluding academics from " having relations with " other academics . <p> 23 . On 19 September 2024 , FWB on behalf of the Chair and UCT sent a letter in which two important things are said ( SFA7 ) . <p> 23.1 . First , they tender a transcript of the relevant portion of the Council meeting . This is important because the Chair later reneged on this tender - twice - with no justification . I address this below . <p> 23.2 . Second , the Chair and UCT explained that their purported record " contains all information relevant to the impugned decision or proceedings " . This is important because , as I explain below , the Chair , Council , and UCT later concede that all these documents ( save one page ) were not before Council when it took its decision . They concede , in other words , that these " relevant " documents were not before Council . <p> 24 . On 20 September 2024 , I followed up with Council ( SFAB ) . I requested confirmation of a date by which Council would file its record . I appreciated that Council is a deliberative body comprising thirty persons , so I offered Council an extension ( until 25 September 2024 ) to file its record . <p> 25 . Also on 20 September 2024 , I responded to the Chair and UCT ( SFA9 ) . I thanked them for their tender of a transcript . I explained however that the recording and transcript are a matter for Council to decide . <p> 26 . On 25 September 2024 , UCT 's Registrar , in his capacity as Council 's secretary , informed me that a special meeting of Council has been scheduled for 5 October 2024 , followed by an ordinary meeting on 19 October 2024 . During these meetings , Council would deliberate on my application ( SFA10 ) . <p> 27 . On 26 September 2024 , I issued two notices . <p> 27.1 . First , a rule 7(1) notice disputing FWB 's authority to act only for the Chair of Council ( SFA11 ) . I also disputed the Chair 's authority to represent Council , to the extent that he did so . I further disputed FWB 's authority to represent UCT . ( FWB later duly provided its authority to represent UCT . ) <p> 27.2 . Second , a rule 30A notice requiring Council to comply with rule 53 and file a record ( SFA12 ) . <p> 28 . On 30 September 2024 , the South African Union for Jewish Students , a student organisation representing Jewish students at universities across South Africa , wrote a letter to Council objecting to the resolutions ( SFA13 ) . <p> 28.1 . The letter expressed support for this application . <p> 28.2 . The letter demonstrates how the resolutions contravene UCT 's Risk Management Policy of June 2020 . I attach the Policy as SFA14 . When dealing with my grounds of review below , I discuss the provisions of the Risk Management Policy and how Council 's decision was taken contrary to its provisions . <p> 28.3 . The letter also points out that Council failed to consider and adhere to the Regulations for Reporting by Public Higher Education Institutions published under GN R464 in GG 37726 of 9 June 2014 . I return to this below too . <p> ( ii ) October 2024 <p> 29 . On 2 October 2024 , Professor Glenda Gray - a professor at the University of the Witwatersrand and a member of Council as from July 2024 - was appointed chair of the board of the Global Antibiotic Research &amp; Development Partnership ( GARDP ) . Her appointment is relevant to this application because it demonstrates the severe and irrational reach of the resolutions passed by Council . <p> 29.1 . GARDP is a not-for-profit global health organisation , established by the World Health Organisation , driven to protect people from the rise and spread of drug-resistant infections . Through public and private partnerships , GARDP develops and makes antibiotic treatments accessible for people who need them . GARDP is highly regarded for its work in global health . <p> 29.2 . GARDP includes academics from around the world in its various programmes . One of those academics is Professor Mica ! Paul , an Israeli academic at the Faculty of Medicine , Technion , Israel Institute of Technology ( SFA15 ) . So , arguably , Professor Gray has " entered relations " with " the broader Israeli military establishment " or with a network whose affiliations include members of the Israeli military . Had she therefore been a UCT rather than a Wits professor she could have been precluded by Council 's resolutions from chairing GARDP . <p> 29.3 . Additionally , in 2023 , Professor Gray , in her capacity as President and CEO of the South African Medical Research Council , joined the Human Frontier Science Program ( HFSP ) . <p> 29.4 . This should be celebrated . The HFSP was founded in 1989 to advance international research and training at the frontier of the life sciences . Its aims are to promote intercontinental collaboration and training in cutting-edge , interdisciplinary research focused on the life sciences . With its collaborative research grants and postdoctoral fellowships , the HFSP has issued over 4 500 awards involving more than 7 500 scientists from all over the world . Since the beginning of the HFSP , 29 HFSP awardees have gone on to win the Nobel Prize . <p> 29.5 . But there is a catch . The HFSP receives funding from Israel ( along with 15 other countries and the European Union ) . Israel joined the HFSP in 2019 . The HFSP said in December 2023 : " Israel is one of the most recent HFSP members ( 2019 ) , however , Israeli scientific research is remarkable and highly supported by HFSP ; Israeli scientists and scientific institutions have received numerous HFSP Research Grants , Fellowships , and the prestigious HFSP Nakasone Award . This week , we are here to reinforce this collaboration between Israel , through its governmental and scientific institutions , and HFSPO . We both want to pursue excellence in scientific development " ( SFA16 ) . <p> 29.6 . Also in December 2023 , Professor Gray co-hosted the HFSP in Cape Town - an event that included Israeli members of the HFSP Council and Board of Trustees . <p> 29.7 . Council 's decision jeopardises any interactions with the HFSP by UCT academics . Since the HFSP celebrates and promotes Israeli scientific research , collaborating , hosting , or interacting with the HFSP constitutes entering relations with what Council may consider the " broader Israeli military establishment " . It may well include interacting with research groups or a network with authors " affiliated " with the IDF . <p> 29.8 . Thus the resolutions adopted by Council would potentially preclude UCT academics from obtaining accolades and career-advancing international positions similar to those obtained by a member of Council . Council has seen fit to impose a high cost on academics at UCT , a cost which the majority of Council members , not being UCT academics , do not themselves have to pay . <p> 30 . On 4 October 2024 , FWB on behalf of the Chair and UCT responded to my rule 7(1) notice ( SFA17 ) . <p> 30.1 . FWB averred that it had authority to represent the Chair because the Chair was in possession of the record of Council 's decision , and because the Registrar had instructed FWB to come on record for the Chair . <p> 30.2 . The Chair averred that he did not need authority from Council to represent Council in this litigation " by virtue of his position as the Chairperson of the Council , by operation of law and as recognised under Rule 53 " . <p> 31 . On 7 October 2024 , I responded by pointing out various issues with FWB 's and the Chair 's authority arising from the letter of 4 October 2024 ( SFA18 ) . <p> 31.1 . First , the Chair alleged that he had not " acted on his own behalf or ' as an official distinct from the Council " ' ( paragraph 2 ) . He also alleged that he " has acted only in an official and representative capacity as the Chairperson of the Council " ( paragraph 3 , emphasis added ) . These statements are inconsistent . The Chair can not act only as Chair and not act as an official distinct from Council . <p> 31.2 . Second , the Chair can only represent Council if Council decides to authorise him to do so . Rule 53 does not clothe the Chair with authority to represent Council in these proceedings without Council 's permission ( and neither does any other law ) . Of course , if the Chair has Council 's authorisation , then he may take steps under rule 53 on behalf of Council . But the Chair failed to provide any evidence of Council 's authorisation . <p> 31.3 . Third , FWB had previously advised , in its letter of 19 September 2024 , that it represents only the Chair - expressly not Council . So , it is apparent that the Chair was not authorised by Council to represent Council - he was acting on his own . <p> 31.4 . Fourth , the Registrar had no authority to instruct FWB to represent the Chair- only Council could do so . It therefore appeared that FWB was representing the Chair without proper authority . <p> 32 . Also on 7 October 2024 , I wrote to Council following up on the outcome of its meeting of 5 October 2024 ( SFA19 ) . Council responded on the same day , saying that it will only consider the contents of the record filed by the Chair on 19 October 2024 ( SFA20 ) . No reason was given for this inordinate delay in filing the record , and for Council 's breach of duty to this Court under rule 53 . <p> 33 . On 9 October 2024 , Professor Pierre de Vos , an academic at UCT and a member of the Academic Freedom Committee ( AFC ) , wrote an article accusing me of " lawfare " and the " Mpofu-fication " of UCT by bringing this application ( SFA21 ) . While Professor de Vos purports to criticise this application ( again , demonstrating the polarising nature of the resolutions ' subject-matter ) , he makes various allegations that support this application . For instance , he explains : <p> 33.1 . " Public universities do not ' belong ' to any specific group , but serve society as a whole and should aim to become places where all students can ' belong ' , by which I mean flourish and succeed . " <p> 33.2 . " The ideal university is not a place where people are marginalised and excluded because of their race or because they are not the kind of people who thrive in a system that values group identity and loyalty to the collective above all else . In my view , universities ( and the academics working there ) also serve the public good by engaging critically with socioeconomic problems and other injustices they see in the world around them " ( emphasis added ) . <p> 33.3 . " To be honest , I am not sure I would have supported Council 's decision in the face of compelling evidence that it would lead to a catastrophic loss of hundreds of millions of rands in subsidies , donations and grants for the university . " <p> As it happens , apparently unbeknown to Professor de Vos , not only is there incontrovertible evidence that UCT will lose at least hundreds of millions of rand , but also ( a ) this evidence was deliberately not disclosed at the Council meeting and ( b ) Council never even considered this evidence . <p> 34 . On 10 October 2024 , FWB and the Chair purported to address the issues with their authority raised by my rule 7(1) notice ( SFA22 ) . <p> 34.1 . The Chair repeated his mistaken view that he never " required specific authorisation from the Council to produce the rule 53 record of the proceedings over which he presided " . That the Chair thinks he can act without Council 's authorisation is , with respect , startling . <p> 34.2 . FWB failed entirely to address the issue with its authority , namely that the Chair and the Registrar had no authority from Council to instruct its offices . <p> 34.3 . In an apparent concession that neither the Chair nor FWB had the requisite authority , the letter recorded that Council at its meeting of 19 October 2024 would " confirm " the Chair 's and FWB 's authority . <p> 35 . On 10 October 2024 , I agreed to allow Council until 23 October 2024 to file its record , given that it was meeting on 19 October 2024 ( SFA23 ) . I expressly reserved my rights , however . Notwithstanding my indulgences , Council owes a duty to this Court to file its record . It was in breach of this duty without any explanation . <p> 36 . On 16 October 2024 , the Vice-Chancellor " put on hold " his annual Open Lecture ( SFA24 ) . The Vice-Chancellor " paused " the lecture because the invited speaker was considered by some members of the UCT community to be supportive of Israel . The Vice-Chancellor explained : " The lecture would have had a polarising effect on campus . It therefore became important to pause the event and allow for further discussions to take place without the time pressure . " The inconsistency is patent . The Vice-Chancellor was prepared to " pause " and conduct discussions before taking a final decision on an Israel-related *Issue . Council , on the other hand , passed a " polarising " resolution without any community engagement or consultation . <p> 37 . On 17 October 2024 , the news site Politicsweb published a report dated January 2019 f1tled " UCT : The Cost of Cancelling Israel " ( SFA25 ) . I shall call this the Risk Assessment Report . I return to its contents below , when explaining why the failure to consider this report is fatal to Council 's decision . <p> 38 . Also on 17 October 2024 , UCT 's Registrar informed members of Council that Council had voted not to release the audio recording of its meeting of 22 June 2024 as part of the rule 53 record ( SFA26 ) . <p> 39 . On 19 October 2024 , Council met ( SFA27 ) . The minutes of its meeting have two relevant parts . <p> 40 . First , a council member ( Professor Moultrie ) raised the issue of Exco 's failure to disclose the risk of losing millions of rands in donations at the meeting of 22 June 2024 . <p> 40.1 . Professor Moultrie " argued that the interim Vice-Chancellor was not truthful about the risks associated with the Dell Foundation and DGF , framing them as mere risks when they were actual material risks " ( emphasis added ) . Professor Moultrie submitted to Council that the failure to disclose the donations before voting on the resolutions amounted to a " significant governance crisis " . <p> 40.3 . The Vice-Chancellor ( now the incumbent , who took office on 1 August 2024 ) suggested that his predecessor may not have considered the risk of losing the DGF and Dell Foundation donations as material because DGF only indicated that UCT was in breach on 1 August 2024 . <p> 40.4 . This is factually incorrect . The minutes of the Exco meeting of 23 May 2024 record that the ( then ) Vice-Chancellor informed Exco that DGF had " indicated that UCT was in breach of the donation agreement " . Moreover , by the time of that Exco meeting the Dell Foundation had already decided to suspend funding . The risk was not only material , but it had also materialised . <p> 40.5 . The Chair informed Council - for the first time - that he had met with representatives of DGF after the 23 May 2024 Exco meeting and before the 22 June 2024 meeting . So , not only had the Chair failed to disclose to Council the risk of losing the DGF funding , but he had also failed to inform Council that he had met with those donors , and that those donors had expressed concerns to him about Council adopting the resolutions . <p> 40.6 . Four Council members ( Ms Mohamed , Mr Moollatjie , Professor Amien , and Mr Campbell ) suggested that Council had been aware of the risk of losing the R200 million DGF donation ( there is no mention , I underscore , of the millions from the Dell Foundation ) . But this is belied by the rule 53 record . There was nothing before Council alluding to the risk of losing the DGF and Dell Foundation donations ; nor was this mentioned by any of the Exco members , or by any other member of Council , during the meeting of 22 June 2024 . And the letter of 5 September 2024 from several Council members confirms that Council was not even aware of the existence of the DGF donation contract ( and therefore of its terms ) . <p> 40.7 . Some Council members suggested that donors have attempted to " bully " or " strong-arm " UCT . This misses the point , in three respects . First , the point is not whether a donor 's demand is reasonable . The point is that Council , before taking any decision , which must be in the best interests of the university , should know the financial implications of its decision . In this case , it simply did not . Second , UCT 's ongoing compliance with the requirement that it continue with its policy of tolerance for differences of religion , culture and so forth , including zero tolerance for antisemitism as defined by the IHRA , was a term of the DGF donation contract signed by the Chair and the then Vice ? Chancellor and therefore pre-dated the Council resolutions . There can be no suggestion of UCT 's being " bullied " or " strong-armed " where it breached the terms of an existing contract to which it agreed . Third , donations are by their nature charitable . Donors are under no obligation to donate to any particular institution . If donors are discomfited by the policies of an institution , for whatever reason , they are fully within their rights rather to donate elsewhere ( or not to donate at all ) . <p> 40.8 . The contract of donation referred to in paragraph 52.5 of the founding affidavit is the one with DGF . There I said that the contract had been signed on behalf of UCT in September 2023 by the then Vice ? Chancellor and by the Chair . I have since learned that a slightly amended version of the contract was signed on behalf of UCT on 17 November 2023 , again by the then Vice-Chancellor and by the Chair ( the amendment concerned a change of name to the DGF ) . Between the two signature dates , the attack of 7 October 2023 on Israel had taken place and the war in Gaza had commenced . By mid-November it was well known that those events had resulted in significant divisions among members of the UCT community . Yet the Chair apparently had no difficulty with signing a contract that obliged UCT to conduct itself with due regard for the IHRA definition of antisemitism . <p> 40.9 . Council resolved to appoint a subcommittee to investigate the failure to disclose the risk of losing the donations to Council . Curiously , the minutes record that only the Registrar was recused from commenting on the subcommittee 's terms of reference and considering the subcommittee 's findings . The Exco members , who are directly implicated by the allegation of non-disclosure , appear to have had a say in the terms of reference of the sub-committee . This is a plain and simple conflict of interest . <p> 41 . Second , the minutes record a report provided by the Vice-Chancellor on the impact of Council 's " Gaza/Israel " resolutions . <p> 41.1 . Regarding financial impact , the Vice-Chancellor reported that : ( a ) the resolutions have cost the university an estimated amount of R250 million in withdrawals ; ( b ) this amount excludes future or potential losses , including how donors ( counting major donors like Wendy Ackermann , the Dell Foundation , and the Harry Crossley Foundation ) have said they may no longer provide funding going forward ; and ( c ) donors have expressed concern with the second of Council 's resolutions , which prohibits " relations " between academics . <p> 41.2 . The Vice-Chancellor revealed that UCT 's entire postgraduate funding annual investment is R400 million . So , the resolutions have cost the university an amount equivalent to over half that budget - not even counting future and potential losses of donations , as well as potentially larger of losses of research grants . <p> 41.3 . The Vice-Chancellor 's report does not mention the jeopardised R500 million donation from the DGF to UCT for a private academic hospital . So , while the Vice-Chancellor mentions R250 million in withdrawals , the number is far higher ( and not even known to the Vice-Chancellor ) . The number , to my knowledge , considering the scuppered DGF hospital donation , is closer to R750 million . <p> 41.4 . As for the impact on students and staff , the Vice-Chancellor reported that his consultations have revealed a " divided climate " at UCT and " a sense of discomfort and fear among the community " . He warned that the resolutions may " jeopardise UCT 's academic integrity and reputation " , and that the situation was " worsening " . He highlighted the risk of " losing talented individuals to other prestigious institutions if the environment became toxic " . <p> 41.5 . Council members responded to the Vice-Chancellor 's report . There are three important themes arising from these responses . <p> 41.6 . First , there is an acknowledgement that Council must consider the financial implications of its decisions before taking those decisions . Council members , now in hindsight , acknowledged how they should have considered all financial upshots to Council 's resolutions before deciding to pass those resolutions . Even the Chair ( who failed to disclose the risk to funding at the meeting of 22 June 2024 ) " raised concerns about how the current situation , including potential funding losses , might impact UCT 's reputation " ( emphasis added ) . <p> 41.7 . Second , Council members expressed concern about the ongoing tensions on campus , and suggested that the way forward was " understanding and dialogue " to mitigate polarisation . <p> 41.8 . Third , members flagged Council 's and Senate 's focus on political issues at the cost of governance and academic issues . The Vice ? Chancellor and the Registrar ( in addition to several Council members ) warned that Council and Senate are too focused on external issues , instead of dedicating their time to addressing issues within the university . <p> 41.9 . I note a further aspect of the responses . At various points , certain Council members suggested that UCT consider obtaining funding from " non-Western " sources , including the Gulf States and BRICS countries . As I pointed out in my founding affidavit ( paragraph 72 ) , there is an obvious problem with these sources of funding ( which members of Council did not appear to appreciate ) . These countries <p> - certainly Russia , Iran , and Saudi Arabia ( all members of BRICS ) - stand accused of serious international legal breaches . If Council can stymie academic relations with Israel or Israeli academics , then it can also do so for academic relations with those countries . And not stymieing relations with these countries , while doing so for Israel , is ( at least ) irrational . In any event , Council has no immediate relationship with any of these " non-Western sources " to readily replace the R750 million it has lost because of its resolutions . <p> 41.10 . The minutes record that Council discussed this application under a " confidential agenda " . I understand that during that discussion Council decided to oppose my application , with 16 votes in favour and 10 votes against . <p> 42 . On 21 October 2024 , Council announced that it had resolved to oppose this application ( SFA28 ) . This is inexplicable . Council decided to oppose this application ( a ) before filing a rule 53 record , ( b ) before seeing my supplementary founding affidavit , and ( c ) despite Council being divided ( 16 to 10 ) on the merits of my application . This is an irrational expenditure of university funds . Those who voted to oppose my application breached their fiduciary duties in doing so . <p> 43 . On 23 October 2024 , FWB wrote to me now on behalf of the Chair , Council , and UCT ( SFA29 ) . The letter informed me that at its meeting of 19 October 2024 , Council had decided to - <p> 43.1. " ratify " the Registrar 's decision to instruct FWB to act on behalf of the Chairperson and UCT ; <p> 43.2. authorise FWB and the Chair to act on behalf of Council in these proceedings ; <p> 43.3. " ratify " the Chair 's decision to dispatch the rule 53 record ; and <p> 43.4. oppose this application . <p> 44 . This letter confirms that the Chair , the Registrar , and FWB failed to act with Council 's authority until 19 October 2024 . It also confirms that Council ( now ) considered the purported record filed by the Chair as the record of its decision . <p> 45 . On 24 October 2024 , I wrote to the Chair , Council , and UCT ( SFA30 ) . I made three requests . <p> 45.1 . First , I requested reasons for Council 's decision to oppose my application . Without reasons , Council 's decision to oppose implies that Council is not committed to lawful and rational decision-making . If it were so committed , Council would have waited to see a// the grounds on which I challenge its decision based on a full and complete record of its proceedings . Instead , unless Council explains its decision to oppose , the implication is that Council is committed to defending the impugned resolutions , at all costs , no matter the grounds for reviewing that decision . <p> 45.2 . Second , I requested that Council clarify which of the " relevant " documents filed in the purported rule 53 record were before it when it decided to pass the resolutions . <p> 45.3 . Third , now that FWB represented Council , I accepted the tender for the transcript of the relevant part of the Council meeting . <p> 46 . On 29 October 2024 , I followed up with Council regarding my requests <p> ( SFA31 ) . <p> 47 . On 31 October 2024 , Council responded ( SFA32 ) . <p> 47.1 . First , it refused to explain why it has opposed this application without seeing my supplementary founding affidavit , before finalising its rule 53 record , and despite the dissensus among its members . Council alleged that its majority took a " considered " decision to oppose - but this can not be . Council could not have considered the contents of this affidavit , and all the contents of the rule 53 record , which should be considered by an organ of state before deciding to oppose ( and thereby expend public funds ) . Hence rule 53 itself and my notice of motion provide for the filing of a notice of opposition after the filing of the supplementary founding affidavit . <p> 47.2 . Second , it conceded the merits of this application . Council admitted that the only documents that served before Council were " those identified in item 5 of the Rule 53 record ( paginated page 90 ) " . Item 5 of the record consists of one page , and is described in the index to the record as " Extracts of the Agenda of Meeting of the Council of the University " , further identified as the meeting of 22 June 2024 . In turn , that single page identifies two relevant documents , namely the two Senate resolutions ultimately adopted by Council ( SFA33 and SFA34 ) . That is it . The only relevant documents before Council were the resolutions . None of the other documents in the filed " record " were before Council . <p> 47.3 . Council 's admission concedes the merits of this application . In its letter of 19 September 2024 ( as ratified on 19 October 2024 ) , Council explained that the rule 53 record it filed " contains all information relevant to the impugned decision or proceedings " . Council then admitted that of all that relevant information , none was before it when it took its decision other than the two resolutions referred to in the page extracted from the agenda . Council , on its own version , ignored " all information relevant to " its decision . <p> 47.4 . Third , Council now refused to provide a transcript of the meeting ( despite the previous , open tender which I had accepted ) . Council asserted that it would only provide a " redacted " transcript , in WhiCh the names of Council members will be hidden . Its reasons : ( a ) * ' the impugned resolutions raise sensitive and highly politicrsed Issues that can provoke extreme reactions " , and ( b ) " indiVidual Council members may be exposed to victimisation and intimidation if their individual contributions in the deliberations are exposed " . <p> 47.5 . These reasons are bad in law . Council owes this Court a duty to disc1ose a full and complete record . It can not shirk that duty because the record concerns sensitive or political issues . If the Judicial Service Commission must disc1ose deliberations for the appointment of judges , including the names of Commissioners , then Council must disclose its deliberations , including the names of Council members . <p> 47.6 . I return to the unlawfulness of Council 's decision not to disclose the full transcript below . <p> ( iii ) November 2024 <p> 48 . On 4 November 2024 , I responded to Council 's offer for a redacted transcript ( SFA35 ) . Reserving all my rights , I offered a conditional acceptance of this tender . Most importantly , I made it clear that I was not agreeing to keep names confidential should speakers ' identities be apparent from the transcript read with the minutes ( at least some of which obviously would be ) , or if I obtained further evidence demonstrating speakers ' identities . I also proposed a timetable for the filing of papers in this matter . <p> 49 . On 11 November 2024 , I was suspended from my role as Head of Department because I launched this application ( SFA36 ) . I have been replaced by Associate Professor Lance van Sittert , who sent the complaint against me ( supported by nine other staff members ) to the Dean of Humanities . <p> 50 . On 18 November 2024 , Council wrote to me ( SFA37 ) . <p> 50.1 . In its letter , it persisted with its refusal to disclose the transcript " to protect individual Council members from victimisation and intimidation " . ( It is an ironic concern , given the suspension visited on me by UCT for my temerity in seeking to vindicate constitutional rights by way of this application . ) It provided no evidence to substantiate its allegation . <p> 50.2 . Council now refused to provide a redacted transcript . Council - shifting the goalposts for the third time - now demanded that I agree to keeping Council members ' names confidential ( despite not being provided with those names ) . <p> 50.3 . Council alleged that the names were " not necessary " for this review . <p> First , that is not for Council to decide . Council must disclose all relevant information , then this Court decides what is necessary to assess the legality of a decision . Second , the names may well be necessary ( since they are relevant ) . The names may for instance disclose conflicts of interest . The names - in so far as Exco members are concerned -will bear on Exco 's failure to disclose facts to Council . The point is that I can not know , and this Court can not know , the full impact of the names on the legality of Council 's decision because Council has refused to disclose them . <p> 51 . On 19 November 2024 , the subcommittee established to investigate Exco 's non-disclosure met . It considered two versions of its terms of reference ( SFA38 ) . It is unclear whether ( conflicted ) members of Exco participated in the formulation of these terms . In any event , both versions record that <p> ( a ) Council members had warned on 11 June 2024 that Council could not pass the resolutions without considering the implications for UCT ( including financial implications ) , and ( b ) not a single Exco member mentioned the millions jeopardised by the resolutions . <p> 52 . On 21 November 2024 there was further correspondence regarding the record . As the communication was without prejudice , I do not attach it . <p> 53 . At a Senate meeting on 22 November 2024 , the Vice-Chancellor said again that Council 's resolutions had cost the university R250 million in withdrawals . <p> ( iv ) December 2024 and January 2025 <p> 54 . On 7 December 2024 , Council met . At this meeting , Council considered two relevant reports . <p> 55 . First , a risk report by the University Audit and Risk Committee ( the UARC ) ( SFA39 ) . According to the report : <p> 55.1 . UCT 's brand erosion following Council 's decision has led to the withdrawal or suspension of donations . Donors have said that they will be removing UCT from their wills . Major donors have cancelled long-term commitments . Plans to find new donors " aligned to the recent Council decisions " will not replace lost funding in a meaningful way any time soon . <p> 55.2 . The " single biggest " threat to UCT in 2023 and 2024 is its inability to remain financially sustainable . UCT has not operated within budget for the last three years . <p> 55.3 . The UARC identifies " governance failures diverting focus of the university from the academic projects " as a risk . The UARC explains that " the inability of governance structures to reach consensus on key leadership and governance matters and consistently elevated levels of contestation presents a risk of non-adherence to governance and statutory provisions " . <p> 56 . Second , a report by the Vice-Chancellor ( SFA40 ) . In this report , he explains that there has been a decrease in donations of around R45 million in the last year . He further explains that individual donations have dropped from R71.3 million to R22.9 million in the last year . <p> 57 . Again , the Vice-Chancellor fails to mention the jeopardised R500 million donation from DGF for the hospital . Council appears to remain in the dark about the deleterious impact of its resolutions , or at least the full extent thereof . <p> 58 . At this meeting , Council also finalised the terms of reference for the sub ? committee investigating Exco 's non-disclosure ( SFA41 ) . <p> 59 . Following a meeting of the parties ' respective legal teams on 12 December 2024 , FWB delivered a redacted transcript of the relevant part of the meeting of 22 June 2024 ( SFA42 ) . It has been redacted by the omission of the names of all speakers , and their replacement by numbers . The covering email from FWB ( SFA43 ) says that the redaction has taken place " on the understanding that the applicant has a legal obligation to respect the confidentiality of the transcript for the reasons previously conveyed " , and goes on to say that if I should not respect that confidentiality I shall be " acting in breach of that legal obligation " . The " understanding " is unilateral : I at no stage agreed that I was under any such legal obligation , nor arn I. This kind of secrecy is unbecoming of a public institution like UCT . Where relevant , I shall identify speakers . I shall do so to the best of my ability , and apologise for any errors that I may make . Any errors would result from Council 's and UCT 's insistence on being coy about who said what at the meeting . <p> 60 . On 13 December 2024 the Vice-Chancellor sent to the members of the UCT community a communication entitled " Creating Safe Spaces for Difficult Conversations at UCT " ( SFA44 ) . I applaud the idea , but given my own suspension , as well as steps taken against other members of UCT 's staff who have dared to express views at variance with some kind of prevailing orthodoxy , I am somewhat cynical about its implementation . <p> 61 . On 8 January 2025 , the Vice-Chancellor emailed the UCT community lamenting funding shortfalls and appealing for donations ( SFA45 ) . He explained : ' There have also been some donors , including corporate entities that have either reduced or dropped student financial aid support owing to thedifficult economic conditions , as well as shifts in the geopolitical landscape . The funding provided in 2024 is R200 million less than what was anticipated . " Again , he fails to mention the loss of R500 million from the DGF , and the loss of a hospital to UCT . <p> C. THE RULE 53 RECORD <p> 62 . In this section , I address three aspects of the rule 53 record filed by Council : <p> 62.1 . First , the documents in the record that were before Council when it took its decision . <p> 62.2 . Second , the documents included in the record that were not before Council . <p> 62.3 . Third , the redacted transcript . <p> 63 . The record includes two campus announcements , respectively dealing with Senate 's and Council 's decisions . There is no need to address these documents in any detail . <p> ( i ) The documents before Council <p> 64 . In its letter of 31 October 2024 , Council admitted that only two documents were before it when it decided to pass the resolutions : the two Senate resolutions . I attached these resolutions above as SFA33 and SFA34 . <p> 65 . These documents were not actually included in the record when filed by the Chair . Council only provided them to me on 7 November 2024 , after my letter of 4 November 2024 requesting the documents ( SFA46 ) . <p> 66 . The record also includes the minutes of Council 's meeting of 22 June 2024 . <p> These minutes reveal some of Council 's deliberations before passing the resolutions , but have essentially been substituted by the redacted record , which provides a more complete record of the deliberations . <p> 67 . In this section , I consider the contents of each of the resolutions and what was said about the resolutions at the meeting . <p> ( a ) The first resolution <p> 68 . The first resolution includes a " background " section that records a selection of facts relating to Israel 's war against Hamas , in particular the severe impact the war has had on education in Gaza . The resolution also adopts the mistaken premise that the ICJ held that " it was plausible that Israel was committing genocide " . I addressed this false premise in my founding affidavit ( at paragraph 53.6 ) . The resolution , by way of background , laments " unprecedented " rates of false accusations of antisemitism that stifle freedom of expression . <p> 69 . Senate then noted : <p> " 1 . The unjustified but widespread clampdown across the world on legitimate public criticism of Israeli policies in the OPT and on its conduct of the war in Gaza and the false conflation of such legitimate criticism with antisemitism ; <p> 2 . The absolute devastation of the education system , both basic and higher education in Gaza , since Israel 's attack in October 2023 ; <p> 4 . The devastation of an education system may contribute to the destruction of a group 's culture , religion , and Identity and therefore comprise a cultural genocide ; <p> 5 . That criticism of the extent of destruction of civilian infrastructure and the l <p> 6 . That the IHRA statement on antisemitism conflates criticism of Israel and of Zionism with antisemitism and has been superseded by the Jerusalem Declaration which recognises criticism of Israel and Zionism as legitimate scholarly discourse . " <p> 70 . Senate next recorded that it believes that : <p> " 7 . While neither antisemitism nor lslamophobia are protected forms of Academic Freedom , it is unacceptable to suppress legitimate criticism of parties ' behaviour in the Gaza War , particularly when the ICJ has found plausible evidence of a genocide taking place in Gaza ; <p> 8 . The manipulation of the definition of antisemitism to include any criticism of Israel or Zionism is both intellectually without foundation and a violation of academic freedom ; <p> 9 . The Academic freedom to voice opinions in scholarly and public debates on Gaza must be defended as a matter of principle ; <p> 10 . Colleagues who have suffered discrimination and harassment as a result of speaking out against the invasion deseNe our support and protection ; <p> 11 . The evidence suggesting that the destruction of Gaza 's education systems was a deliberate plan of the IDF must be examined by the ICJ in its determination of genocidal intent . " <p> 71 . Senate resolved to : <p> " 12 . Call , again , for an immediate ceasefire , the passage of humanitarian aid and the return of all captives as contained in the Senate 's resolution of 17th November . <p> 13 . Condemn the destruction of the education sector in Gaza and the massive scale of killing of teachers and university staff in the current war . <p> 14 . Urge the international community to ensure that the provision of humanitarian aid includes the restoration of the education sector in Gaza . <p> 15 . Express our concern and opposition to any attempts to curtail academic freedom by labelling criticism of Israel or Zionist policies as antisemitism . <p> 16 . Reject the IHRA 's conflation of critique of Zionism and Israel 's policies as antisemitism in favour of the Jerusalem Declaration 's dynamic understanding of what constitutes antisemitism . <p> 17 . Express our support for academic colleagues in Gaza who are surviving under appalling conditions and our intention to assist in the rebuilding of the academic sector after the war . <p> 18 . Express our solidarity with academic colleagues victimised for their willingness to speak out against the educaracide in Gaza . " <p> 72 . Council voted to adopt this resolution on 22 June 2024 with nothing other than the resolution before it . <p> ( b ) The second resolution <p> 73 . The second resolution proposes disallowing " UCT collaborations with any research entity or network with members belonging to the Israeli Defence Force and/or other organs of the Israeli military establishment " . <p> 74 . The resolution notes that UCT academics collaborated with members of the IDF in two papers concerning global medical trends such as hypertension and for which the numbers of co-authors were very high , in one case exceeding one thousand . A third paper concerned oxygen supply in disasters and pandemics . The resolution laments these collaborations , decrying " a// collaborations with any networks that include members of the Israeli military as there is prima facie case of genocide against Israel under consideration at the International Court of Justice " ( emphasis added ) . <p> 75 . The resolution makes its breadth very clear . It prohibits UCT academics from collaborating on papers even with hundreds of authors , and concerning topics that have nothing to do with the war in Gaza , if a single one of those authors is a " member " of the IDF . The resolution says : " Any and a// research involving any members of the IDF or the broader Israeli military may plausibly be considered dual-use research " ( emphasis added ) . " Dual-use research " refers to research that could be used to cause harm . The resolution records : <p> " No guarantees exist that research that appears banal and benevolent such as a paper studying oxygen supply in disasters and pandemics can not be used to deprive people of oxygen in other situations . Research on conditions that are life-making can also be mobilized to create conditions that are death-making . " <p> 76 . The resolution cautions against " close links between research institutions and the Israeli military " , Israel 's apparent failure to provide Palestinians in the Occupied Territories with Covid-19 vaccines , and the existence of " secretive " research institutions in Israel . The resolution calls for " high levels of scrutiny of the possibility of dual use research in Israel " . <p> 77 . The resolution concludes : <p> " In summary , in light of : <p> * The ICJ finding of a prima facie case of genocide against Israel ; <p> * The fact that intent and execution of genocide has historically involved vast sectors of a population- including ordinary people and medical and other experts ; <p> * The widespread recognition of the concerns about dual-use research ; <p> Senate therefore resolves : <p> UCT Senate resolves that no UCT academic may enter into relations , or continue relations with , any research group and/or network whose author affiliations are with the Israeli Defence Force , and/or the broader Israeli military establishment . " <p> 78 . Council adopted this resolution with nothing other than the resolution itself before it . <p> ( c ) The minutes and transcript of the Council meeting <p> 79 . With respect to the first resolution , the minutes and redacted transcript of the meeting of 22 June 2024 reveal the following : <p> 79.1 . Council operated under a material error of law . Council thought it could only adopt , note , or reject the resolution . Council failed to appreciate that it could refer the resolution back to Senate , as it had done in 2019 . Mr Perumalsamy ( speaker 16 in the redacted transcript ) , who is an advocate of this Court , asked at one point whether it is possible to refer " the motion back to Senate in light of certain of the difficulties we have had " , to which an unknown speaker responded , " If Council has that right . " The question was however left unanswered . <p> 79.2 . Council accepted that it " would need to determine , from a policy perspective , the extent to which the adoption of the resolution would place obligations on the Universtty " . Yet Council had nothing before it other than the resolution itself . It had no idea of the impact the resolution would have on its obligations ( and those who had an idea - Exco members - failed to disclose that impact ) . <p> 79.3 . The Chair ( speaker 1 ) said that " of course the resolution raises issues of academic freedom and all that " , but despite this Council did nothing to address such issues . It did not have before it the legal opinions that had previously been obtained , nor did it consider obtaining a further legal opinion . This , despite the fact that academic freedom is a core value - perhaps the core value - of any university . <p> 79.4 . Those in favour of the resolution acknowledged ( according to the precis in the minutes ) that " solidarity should also be understood as extending to Israeli academics who spoke out against their government , as they were also being victimised as a consequence of their actions " . Nonetheless , as I explained in my founding affidavit ( paragraph 60 ) , Council 's second resolution precludes relations with Israeli academics even if they are critics of Israel 's government . Presumably this was on the basis of the Chair 's view : " There is a lot of Israeli people that is terribly unhappy with what is happening there . But it is so hard to distinguish , you know . " <p> 79.5 . Proponents of the resolution mistakenly believed that the IHRA definition precludes criticism of Israel , or at the very least failed to appreciate that the definition is subject to bona tide academic debate . Thus the Chair ( who had signed the DGF donation contract in September and again in November 2023 ) said , " Then there is express concern and opposition to any attempts to curtail academic freedom by labelling criticism of Israel or Zionist policy as antisemitism . Reject the IHRA 's conflation of critique of Zionism , express our support for , anyway . " And Dr Shuaib Manjra ( speaker 13 ) said that " the IHRA definition attempts to conflate criticism of Israel with antisemitism " . I addressed this material mistake regarding the IHRA definition in my founding affidavit at paragraph 77 . Mr Jacques Rousseau ( speaker 18 ) correctly pointed out that the IHRA definition is more complicated than Dr Manjra suggests , and that " the IHRA and its defenders also have a point of view " . <p> 79.6 . The Chair , surprisingly given that this was a key aspect of the first resolution and indeed the aspect that triggered the breach of the DGF donation contract , said , " I do not think we should have a debate about adopting the Jerusalem Declaration . " No debate about that definition took place . <p> 79.7 . The Chair also acknowledged that UCT has " disparate communities and constituencies , and it the resolution is clearly a divisive issue " . He said : <p> " We are sitting here as a university council trying to keep the place together , and whatever we decide here does have consequences for the university . And then your view , my view , when we step outside here , does not matter anymore . It is what the university stands for " ( emphasis added ) . <p> 79.8 . It is simply startling that the Chair can make such an allegation and yet fail to disclose how the first resolution would put UCT in breach of its agreement with the DGF . <p> 79.9 . Council members supporting the motion noted " that there were concerns that the University would lose funding if Council were to adopt Senate 's resolution " . Yet the relevant information was not before Council . Council did not consider the R250 million implicated by the resolution in May 2024 . Exco members failed to disclose this risk , despite knowing about it , and despite the following questions from Dr Michael Cardo ( speaker 12 ) : " What does it mean for us if we accept Senate 's rejection of this IHRA definition and opt for the Jerusalem Declaration instead ? What does this mean for us ? What potential implications does it have for the university ? I need to understand that better . " The next speaker is the Chair , and he says nothing about the immediate implication of the loss of a R200 million donation . <p> 79.10 . The resolutions ' supporters admitted that adopting the resolutions will have implications for UCT . Despite calling for implications to be borne in mind , there was no consideration of these implications . Indeed , Ms Nazeema Mohamed ( speaker 11 ) expressed the view that the financial consequences were an irrelevant consideration , that taking a stand on Gaza was more important than even " a huge amount of money " for UCT . <p> 79.11 . This appears to have been the view of the resolutions ' supporters generally : the Chair said that " it could also be regarded as quite a sad day that we are held sort of hostage or to ransom because , you know , we are going to lose funding " . The Chair went on to refer , it seems in response to a statement by Mr Ezra Davids ( speaker 8 ) , to an occasion " a few years ago " when Mr Davids had been asked " to make those records available about what we potentially could lose if we adopt certain resolutions that are perceived to be anti-Israel " . It is striking that Council did not again ask for an impact assessment to be performed , and also did not have before it any previous impact assessment . <p> 79.12 . A number of Council members spoke against the resolution . <p> Mr Davids , who is a senior attorney , asked whether anyone had " done an assessment , an analysis " of the implications of adopting the resolution . He said that no proper thought had gone into this , and warned that " there are going to be consequences for the university , and it behoves us as fiduciaries of this university to think about what the implications would be for our university if we were to adopt this particular resolution " . Mr Rousseau reported that the debate at Senate had been " incredibly fractious " , that " many voices were not heard " but " were in fact shouted down , in very unprocedural ways " , and said that Council was running the risk of taking " positions on things which we have no business taking positions on , and which could have consequences for us that we can not anticipate at the moment " . Mr Perumalsamy explained that the resolution 's claim that the ICJ had found plausible evidence of genocide taking place in Gaza was not true , and that he " would be cautious endorsing something that is legally inaccurate " . <p> 80 . After the Registrar had advised that Council was " just quorate " ( a quorum being 16 members out of 30 ) , Council passed the resolution with 11 members in favour and 6 against , i.e. a majority of those present but a minority of Council members . <p> 81 . As for the second resolution : <p> 81.1 . Council appears to have operated under the same material error of law as has been described above regarding the first resolution . <p> 81.2 . Mr Perumalsamy asked pertinently , " what are the consequences for breach of this resolution ... ? What would happen to an academic if they did not comply with it , if they did enter into some kind of relation ? " He went on to say that it would be " the height of irrationality to adopt a motion where we do not know what the consequences are , and where there are serious implications for academic freedom " . The Vice-Chancellor said that Senate had not discussed the question of consequences for breach at all . It is apparent from the minutes and the transcript that Council similarly failed to consider the consequences of breach . As I explained in my founding affidavit , it is irrational to prohibit academic relations without considering the consequences ( if any ) of breaching that prohibition ( paragraph 57 ) . <p> 81.3 . Dr Manjra referred to a document of the AFC ' ' which recognises reasonable and justifiable limitations on the rights of academic freedom " . I shall discuss the AFC below . The point here is that despite a member referencing the AFC 's meeting , the AFC 's minutes and recommendation regarding the resolutions were not before Council . The reference to the AFC thus exacerbates Council 's irrationality . Not only had Council failed to consider the AFC 's deliberations and recommendation , but Council also failed to call for the AFC 's recommendations when the AFC 's meeting was referenced by one of its members . <p> 81.4 . In other words , Council members were alerted to the fact that the AFC had met , but they did not then call for the AFC 's minutes or recommendation to Council . In fact , the transcript reveals that Dr Manjra did not even disclose to Council what the AFC had decided . <p> 81.5 . Despite being alerted to the fact that the infringement of a fundamental constitutional right was in issue , Council did not have before it any extant legal opinion , nor did it seek a legal opinion . The only " opinion " on the legal ramifications of infringing the right to academic freedom was expressed by Dr Manjra , a medical doctor , who said this : " And academic freedom needs to be understood in a context of its economic , historical , social and political determinants . And also recognises reasonable and justifiable limitations on the right to academic freedom , which must be proportionally judged in terms of what is justifiable in an open and democratic society . " This reference does not tell Council what the AFC decided , and whether ( and if so why ) the resolution constituted a proportionate curtailment of rights . <p> 81.6 . Dr Manjra alleged that Israel " is characterised as a settler colonial society , as a society which every human rights organisation has designated as an Apartheid society " . The statement is false . Moreover , none of these " designations " was before Council . Its members did not consider which " human rights organisations " had made these designations . Members similarly did not consider the various international organisations ( and states ) that do not consider Israel to be an apartheid society . <p> 81.7 . Dr Manjra warned that " should UCT academics engage in research with members of the Israeli Defence Force , they could potentially be complicit in genocidal activity and genocide " . He said that " there are collaborations between UCT academics and the Israeli Defence Force " . There was however no evidence before Council concerning this alleged risk of complicity in genocide . Council did not even know the details of current collaboration between UCT and Israeli academics . Council did not consider the Vice-Chancellor 's bibliometric report . Council , for example , did not consider how collaborating with numerous other authors on a global health issue might raise a risk of complicity in genocide merely because one author was affiliated with the IDF . <p> 81.8 . Council members opposing the resolution warned against passing the resolution without determining possible sanctions , and where the implications for academic freedom had not been determined . <p> 81.9 . No consideration was given to the impact and potential impact on individual members of UCT 's academic staff , and whether the views of those who would be most directly affected by the adoption of the resolution should be heard . <p> 81.10 . The discussion about this extremely far-reaching resolution was disturbingly brief , and was dominated by Dr Manjra . Council passed the resolution with 12 members in favour and 5 against . <p> 81.11 . Four Council members ( of the 17 present ) formally noted their objection . to the passing of the second resolution . <p> ( ii ) The relevant documents Council failed to consider <p> 82 . In its letter of 19 September 2024 , Council alleged that the filed rule 53 record " contains all information relevant to the impugned decision or proceedings " . What Council did not disclose - until 31 October 2024- is that Council did not consider any of this relevant information . <p> 83 . The relevant documents Council failed to consider but which it filed in its record are - <p> 83.1 . Extracts of minutes of Senate 's meetings of 17 November 2023 , 8 December 2023 , 23 February 2024 , 8 March 2024 , and 19 April <p> 2024 ; and <p> 83.2 . Minutes of the AFC 's meetings of 20 May 2024 and 20 June 2024 . <p> 84 . I consider the contents of each of these documents in this section . <p> ( a ) The Senate meetings <p> 85 . On 17 November 2023 , Senate resolved to release the following statement : " The UCT Senate calls for an immediate ceasefire and passage of humanitarian aid to Gaza , and the release of hostages and unlawfully held prisoners " ( annexure FA9 to my founding affidavit ) . <p> 86 . The relevant minutes of the meeting of 17 November 2023 ( SFA47 ) record : <p> 86.1 . The Vice-Chancellor ( as Chair of Senate ) did not consider it appropriate to make a statement on the war in Gaza that would bind UCT as a whole . Senate ultimately released its statement only in its own name , not on behalf of the whole university . <p> 86.2 . Senate considered issuing this statement urgently and without notice to its members . <p> 86.3 . " Senate also noted the view expressed by some members that adopting a motion on the crisis in Gaza , or indeed on any matter which was politically divisive , would amount to compelling agreement within Senate and would therefore constitute a violation of individual members ' academic freedom . " <p> 86.4 . " Senate noted a point raised by a member that there was a need for it to consider how it responded to similar crises going forvvard in a proactive ( rather than a reactive ) manner and in a way that ensured that debate could take place in an environment that was both respectful of differing points of view and conducive to meaningful and impactful engagement . " <p> 87 . On 8 December 2023 , Senate met again . The minutes ( SFA48 ) reveal that Senate delayed taking a decision on any resolution relating to the war in Gaza until the Vice-Chancellor had provided information to Senate relating to the collaborations UCT had with Israeli academic institutions . <p> 88 . I underscore this . Senate delayed taking a decision on any Gaza resolutions until it had seen information relating to UCT 's current collaborations with Israeli academics . Council , however , took a decision without seeing any such information . <p> 89 . On 17 November 2023 , the Vice-Chancellor was asked various questions relating to UCT 's position on the war in Gaza . On 8 December 2023 , the Vice ? Chancellor replied by written answer ( SFA49 ) . He explained that Council had previously issued a statement on the Israel-Palestine conflict in 2019 ( annexure FA4 to my founding affidavit ) . The statement reads : <p> " Council resolved as follows : <p> * reaffirm its commitment to supporting the rights and freedoms of all people as universally recognised under international law <p> * condemn any acts that violate those rights and freedoms <p> * condemn the atrocities and human rights violations perpetrated in the Occupied Palestinian Territories , and elsewhere in the world <p> call on all academics and academic institutions to support this resolution <p> * reaffirm UCT 's commitment to academic freedom but reserve the right to dissociate itself from those academics and academic institutions that support ( directly or indirectly ) the violation of human rights and/or enable the violation of human rights . " <p> 90 . The Vice-Chancellor further explained that the executive does not make statements on international events because - <p> " when the topics are national and world events - even events that affect us personally , and on which we feel great moral clarity-the VC should not speak for the whole community , if indeed it is possible to do so . The Executive recognises that members of the university community may well do so as individuals , as informal groupings , or as formal bodies . It is important to affirm the right of all to do so , and we have the responsibility to exercise this freedom of expression with respect . " <p> 91 . Around 17 December 2023 , the Vice-Chancellor completed a bibliometric analysis of co-publication between UCT and Israeli academics . I annexed this analysis to my founding affidavit as FA15 . It is included in the rule 53 record as part of the agenda for Senate 's meeting of 23 February 2024 ( SFASO ) , but was not considered by Council . <p> 92 . On 23 February 2024 , Senate met and considered three resolutions concerning Israel ( SFA51 , SFA52 and SFA53 ) . Two of the resolutions were the ones ultimately passed by Council . A third resolution , proposed by Associate Professor Susan Levine , was not passed . This third resolution called for a boycott of " Israeli academic institutions , research entities , lobby groups , corporations , foundations , academic forums and entities that accept funding from Israel " . <p> 93 . The record includes extracts from the minutes of Senate 's meeting on 23 February 2024 . I attached the minutes of Senate 's meeting of 23 February 2024 ( which continued on 8 March 2024 and 19 April 2024 ) to my founding affidavit as FA19 . <p> 94 . As I explained in my founding affidavit ( paragraph 53.3 ) , these minutes record Senate 's deliberations for passing the two resolutions ( and rejecting the third ) . There are important themes to these deliberations , which Council should have at least considered . <p> 95 . First , there are the strong warnings by the Vice-Chancellor . He warned that passing the resolutions would - <p> 95.1. likely result in legal challenges to any decision by Senate or Council amounting to an academic boycott ; <p> 95.2. only be legal if passed in UCT 's best interests and with a strong justification given the limitation they impose on academic freedom ; <p> 95.3. jeopardise R660 million in research contract funding from the United States alone , plus further funding from Germany and potentially other international governments ; and <p> 95.4. endanger UCT 's membership and partnership with local and international networks . <p> 96 . Council 's failure to consider the Vice-Chancellor 's warnings suffices to set aside its decision . The Vice-Chancellor warned Senate that a 2019 analysis , the Risk Assessment Report , found that up to R660 million from the United States alone could be jeopardised by a resolution against Israeli academic relations . Council did not know about or consider this enormous risk to the university . <p> 97 . Second , I addressed Senate , explaining that the IHRA definition of antisemitism did not preclude criticism of Israel ( as the drafters ' annexure to the definition explained ) . I attach the IHRA definition and ( for the sake of completeness ) the Jerusalem Declaration as annexures SFA54A and SFA548. reiterate that my area of expertise is Jewish history and antisemitism . Others shared my view , as the minutes record : " Professor Buffler also asked the proposer and seconder of the motion to indicate where in the IHRA definition the conflation of a critique of Zionism with anti-Semitism was presented , but as the debate continued Professor Buffler 's question was not responded to . " <p> 98 . The minutes correctly record that have signed onto the Jerusalem Declaration in my academic capacity . But this is not because the IHRA definition conflates criticism of Israel with antisemitism . I signed onto the Jerusalem Declaration because it supplies a set of tools for assessing whether speech and actions can be classified as antisemitic . Both definitions emphasise the importance of context in interpreting whether speech and actions are antisemitic . Whereas the IHRA definition recognises the importance of context , it does not provide practical guidance on this point . By contrast , the Jerusalem Declaration offers clear guidelines , particularly for assessing when language and actions critical of Israel can be adjudged antisemitic . As the preamble of the Jerusalem Declaration indicates , these guidelines can be used as a " tool for interpreting " the IHRA definition . This plainly demonstrates that acceptance of the Jerusalem Declaration does not preclude acceptance of the IHRA definition . Unlike Council , I do not reject the IHRA definition . Nor do I agree with Council 's tendentious claim that the definition " conflates criticism of Israel and of Zionism with antisemitism " . This is plainly contradicted in the explanatory text that accompanies the IHRA definition . Council , moreover , is mistaken in its view that the Jerusalem Declaration " recognises criticism of Israel and Zionism as legitimate scholarly discourse " . Both the IHRA definition and the Jerusalem Declaration allow for criticism of Israel , but recognise the possibility that some criticism - scholarly or otherwise - is antisemitic . There is lively debate among scholars about these and several other definitions of antisemitism . There is no evidence that Council is aware of these debates or these alternatives ; by no means has the IHRA definition " been superseded by the Jerusalem Declaration " . Instead , Council has inexpertly , inexplicably and Intemperately stumbled into complex terrain which it is ill-equipped to navigate . <p> 99 . Third , Senate members raised concerns with the financial implications of the motions . <p> 99.1 . The information before Senate was that in 2019 UCT estimated that a motion boycotting Israeli institutions could cost UCT R660 million in funding from the USA alone . <p> 99.2 . Members were concerned that the resolutions " may also impact materially on the University in ways that Senate had not yet had an opportunity to consider " . <p> 99.3 . A member explained ( I believe with specific reference to the Health Sciences faculty ) that - <p> " approximately 60% of its staff and a large proportion of its postdoctoral fellows were soft funded through research grants , particularly from the National Institutes of Health ( NIH ) in the United States . Without properly considering an impact assessment or the input of other appropriate University structures it would be incredibly unwise for Senate to pass this motion when it had the potential to have devastating consequences for both staff and students at the University . " <p> 100 . Fourth , Senate members questioned the breadth of the resolutions . <p> 100.1 . One member remarked : <p> " A total boycott of Israeli academic institutions would run counter to the call for universities to stand against the injustice in Gaza , as it would exclude contributions from all 1sraeli scholars in Israel , many of whom had been outspoken against the actions of the government and military in Gaza , and decrease dialogue between increasingly polarised groups , As such , the University would be better placed If it considered the boycott of individual Israeli academic institutions on a case-by-case basis . " <p> 100.2 . Other members explained that many Israelis may be " members " of the IDF or part of the broader Israeli military establishment simply because of conscription . <p> 101 . Fifth , Senate members expressed the concern that the resolutions would deepen divides within the university . <p> 102 . Sixth , Senate members repeatedly referred to the ICJ 's findings , but did so incorrectly , as one member pointed out . <p> ( b ) The AFC <p> 103 . In my founding affidavit , I explained that Council failed to consult with the AFC before deciding to pass the resolutions . The record confirms this - and makes it worse . <p> 104 . The AFC met on 20 May 2024 and 20 June 2024 to discuss Senate 's resolutions ( SFA55 is the agenda and SFA56 the minutes ) . At these meetings : <p> 104.1 . The AFC considered Senate 's motions in order to advise Council on whether the motions implicated academic freedom . <p> 104.2 . There was a debate among members of the AFC . Two members disagreed on the meaning of the IHRA definition of antisemitism ( showing again that the definition is subject to academic debate and should not be pronounced upon by the Council ) . Members expressed concern about the precedent set by prohibiting academics from associating with other academics , and the breadth of the prohibition given the difficulty in ascertaining " affiliations " . <p> 104.3 . The AFC nonetheless resolved that ( a ) the first resolution did not limit academic freedom and ( b ) the second resolution limited academic freedom , but this limitation was justified because " the Israeli Defence Force , and/or the broader Israeli military establishment had engaged in crimes against humanity , the violation of international humanitarian law and crimes of genocide " . <p> 105 . Council failed to consider the AFC 's deliberations on the very motions before it , notwithstanding that a Council member had referred to the AFC 's meeting . <p> ( iii ) The incompleteness of the record <p> 106 . I have referred already to the fact that the transcript has been impermissibly redacted . There is no basis for Council 's refusal to disclose the complete transcript of its meeting . It bears on Council 's decision-making process . It is not legally privileged . <p> 107 . Council attempts to justify its redaction on two grounds . <p> 108 . First , " the impugned resolutions raise sensitive and highly politicised issues that can provoke extreme reactions " . This can not suffice to excuse an organ of state from disclosing a complete rule 53 record . Many reviews implicate political issues , like the appointment of judges . Courts have nonetheless held that rule 53 requires organs of state to disclose every scrap of paper relevant to their decision . Failure to do so invites a punitive and personal costs order . <p> 109 . Second , Council suggests that it can withhold the recording because " individual Council members may be exposed to victimisation and intimidation if their individual contributions in the deliberations are exposed " . This is not a reason . <p> 109.1 . Council provides no evidence for this allegation . It does not disclose , even on a confidential basis , the sources of these threats of intimidation or victimisation . The sources matter . If Council members face threats of intimidation within UCT , then Council and UCT are obliged to act against those sources . But that does not mean Council can withhold material information from this Court . <p> 109.2 . Council does not explain whether the threatened members are still members of Council . It does not explain the materiality of the risk of these threats , suggesting vaguely that members " may " face intimidation or victimisation . <p> 109.3 . There are other ways of combating ( external ) threats of intimidation and victimisation . If unlawful , then such conduct can be interdicted or addressed by mechanisms like harassment orders . These other means ensure protection for those threatened and ensure that Council can comply with its duties to this Court . <p> 109.4 . It is hard to see how , at this stage , Council can " protect " its members . <p> The rule 53 record ( including the minutes of Council 's meeting and the AFC 's meetings ) reveal ( a ) who was present at the meeting and <p> ( b ) who was likely to support or oppose the resolutions . For example , it is obvious that Dr Manjra was part of the driving force of the resolutions both before the AFC and Council . If would-be intimidators wanted to know who supported the resolutions , then they could readily find this out . <p> 109.5 . Rule 53 would be rendered meaningless if a public body could refuse to disclose a record in its entirety with a bald allegation of possible ( " may " ) " intimidation " or " victimisation " . There needs to be evidence of these threats , and of their illegality . <p> Public office means public accountability . Sometimes , the public will not like what an official has said or done while exercising public power . This is not " victimisation " or " intimidation " . This is public accountability and transparency . <p> 109.7 . The names of Council members are material to this case . The names reveal what members of Exco said ( or did not say ) in Council 's meeting of 22 June 2024 . Names of members may reveal conflicts of interest , bias , and other grounds of review . <p> 109.8 . Ultimately , Council is a public body . It must be transparent . It must , in the context of review proceedings , disclose all material facts to this Court . <p> 111 . The rule 53 record and the factual developments discussed above affirm and supplement these grounds of review . <p> ( i ) Failure to consider relevant considerations <p> 112 . The Higher Education Act provides that UCT 's Council " must govern " UCT . As a necessary part of governance , Council 's decisions must consider material implications for the university 's interests , students ' interests , and staff 's interests . Every decision Council takes must be in the best interests of UCT . The governance envisaged in the Higher Education Act means weighing and considering all relevant factors before taking a decision . Taking decisions without considering material factors is not only contrary to Council 's duty to govern , but also irrational . <p> 113 . In my founding affidavit , I alleged that Council failed to consider : <p> 113.1 . The deliberations before Senate in 2018 , 2019 , 2023 , and 2024 . <p> 113.2 . The deliberations before the AFC on 20 May 2024 and 20 June 2024 ( and the AFC 's views generally on the two resolutions ) . <p> 113.3 . The financial implications of the resolutions for UCT . <p> 113.4 . The two legal opinions regarding Council 's power to pass the resolutions . <p> 113.5 . The views of the UCT community , including academics affected by the resolutions . <p> 113.6 . The consequences for breaching the second resolution . <p> 114 . With respect to the first two items , Council has admitted that the information before Senate in its meetings between 23 November 2023 and 19 April 2024 was " relevant " to Council 's decision . Council has further admitted that it failed to consider this information . So , Council on its own version has conceded that it failed to consider relevant considerations . <p> 115 . Council 's concession is correct . The proceedings before Senate between November 2023 and April 2024 included various material facts : <p> 115.1 . The Vice-Chancellor 's warning against passing the resolutions , including his disclosure that in 2019 UCT estimated that a boycott resolution could cost UCT R660 million in funding from the United States . <p> 115.2 . The Vice-Chancellor 's bibliometric report , which outlines current collaborations between UCT academics and Israeli academics ( and for which Senate delayed its deliberations on the resolutions ) . <p> 115.3 . The Vice-Chancellor 's advice that bodies at UCT should generally not pass resolutions or statements regarding external events on behalf of the entire university , lest they compel consensus or stifle debate . <p> 115.4 . My address to Senate ( supported by another member ) concerning the incorrect assumption that the IHRA definition conflates legitimate criticism of Israel with antisemitism . <p> 115.5 . Senate members ' warnings about polarisation , impact on staff , unforeseeable consequences , and an incorrect understanding of the ICJ 's findings . <p> 116 . The deliberations of the AFC , given its mandate , which I addressed in my founding affidavit at paragraph 55 , were also plainly relevant to Council 's decision . <p> 117 . Moreover , the rule 53 record and Council members ' letter of 5 September 2024 confirm that Council did not consider the remaining four factors identified in my founding affidavit . Council had only the resolutions before it . The minutes of 22 June 2024 reveal that Council did not have Senate 's previous decisions in 2019 , any financial implications of the resolutions , the two legal opinions on UCT 's powers , the views of the UCT community , and consequences for breach . For the reasons given in my founding affidavit , the failure to consider these facts suffices to set aside the resolutions . <p> 118 . Additionally , the rule 53 record reveals not only that Council failed to consider its and Senate 's 2019 decisions , but also that Council mistakenly believed that it lacked the power to refer the resolutions back to Senate for further consideration . This is a material error of law . <p> 119 . There is more Council failed to consider . In what follows , I supplement this ground of review by providing further material facts Council should have considered , but either did not consider at all or did not consider properly . These material considerations include : <p> 119.2 . The contents of the Risk Assessment Report of 2019 , read with the 2019 survey . <p> 119.3 . Council 's own policy on taking a position on issues of public importance ( FA22 ) . <p> 119.4 . The various articles that had been published by UCT academics ( FA23-30 ) , which include an open letter to Council from the then WP Schreiner Professor of Law at UCT ( FA28 ) in which he contends that the second resolution unlawfully violates academic freedom and exceeded Senate 's authority . <p> 119.5 . The cost to UCT of adopting the resolutions as against the benefit to UCT of doing so - which was the very concern raised and discussed by Mr Rousseau in another article that was not before Council ( FA23 ) . <p> 119.6 . The impact on individual members of UCT 's academic staff of adopting the resolutions . <p> 119.7 . The IHRA definition of antisemitism and the Jerusalem Declaration . <p> 120 . I wish to stress this last aspect , because it is illustrative of Council 's disregard for responsible , considered decision-making . Council , including the Chair , voted to reject the IHRA definition ( thereby breaching the terms of a R200 million donation contract signed by the Chair only a few months previously ) without having the IHRA definition before it . It voted to accept the Jerusalem Declaration without having the Jerusalem Declaration before it . <p> ( a ) Financial losses to UCT <p> 121 . The minutes of the Exco meeting of 23 May 2024 confirm that ( by that date ) the DGF and the Dell Foundation had either withdrawn or threatened to withdraw their donations because of Senate 's resolutions . Exco ( certainly the Chair and the then Vice-Chancellor , who signed the contract with DGF ) knew that the DGF donation was valued at R200 million . The Vice-Chancellor subsequently confirmed to Council ( on 19 October 2024 ) that these withdrawals amounted to at least R250 million . Exco further knew that if Council adopted Senate 's two resolutions , the decision to do so would jeopardise the donations . <p> 123 . My allegation is further confirmed by the minutes of 19 October 2024 , in which Council members appointed a sub-committee to investigate why Exco had failed to disclose the jeopardised DGF and Dell Foundation donations to Council at the meeting of 22 June 2024 . The Vice-Chancellor , in that meeting , informed Council that its resolutions had resulted in the withdrawal of R250 million , and that UCT faces further losses ( yet unquantified ) in future funding . <p> 124 . I stand by my allegation that the Vice-Chancellor , in a faculty board meeting at which I was present , indicated that R300 million had been withdrawn because of the resolutions . The Vice-Chancellor can explain why he told Council a somewhat lower ( but still significant ) amount of R250 million . <p> 125 . Additionally , the UARC 's report and the Vice-Chancellor 's report presented to Council on 7 December 2024 confirm the decrease in funding since Council 's decision . The UARC 's report is especially relevant . It emphasises how the key risk to UCT is its financial unsustainability - yet Council decided to pass its resolutions without even considering financial impact . <p> 126 . The financial losses to UCT extend beyond the R250 million of donor funding identified by the Vice-Chancellor . Before Senate , on 23 February 2024 , the Vice-Chancellor warned that a 2019 study estimated that a resolution boycotting Israeli institutions jeopardises R660 million in research contract funding from the US . I return to this 2019 Risk Assessment Report below . <p> 127 . Yet Council failed to consider any of these financial implications . The record makes this clear . The letter of 5 September 2024 from several Council members ( SFA2 ) makes this clear . This failure to consider warrants setting aside the resolutions . <p> 128 . I make four additional points regarding Council 's failure to consider the financial impacts of the resolutions . <p> 129 . First , Council failed to consider the impact the resolutions may have on funding from other countries . <p> 129.1 . I refer to the affidavit of Mr Mark Goldfeder of the National Jewish Advocacy Centre , filed together with this affidavit . Mr Goldfeder is an American lawyer and expert in US law . His affidavit confirms that UCT may trigger anti--BDS ( Boycott , Divestment , Sanctions ) laws in thirty-seven US states , the effect of which would be to preclude UCT from obtaining funding or otherwise collaborating with universities in these states . He further explains that , at a federal level , which includes funding from the National Institutes of Health - the single largest source of research contract funding to UCT - the resolutions " would further likely trigger Congressional sub-committee reviews of all federal programs " . He observes , as an example , that UCT will likely trigger a review of its current relationship with the University of Florida . <p> 129.2 . Mr Goldfeder 's affidavit should be read with the affidavit by Mr Norwitz , which I filed with my founding affidavit . <p> 129.3 . On 27 November 2024 , I spoke to a representative of the US government , who informed me that the US Ambassador to South Africa had spoken to the Vice-Chancellor to warn of potential consequences for UCT of the resolutions . Among the concerns relayed was that any member of the House of Representatives could put a line in the appropriations bill that would prohibit funding of UCT . <p> 129.4 . As I explain below , the 2019 Risk Assessment Report explains why UCT is likely to lose funding from Germany and have relations with German universities terminated because of the resolutions . These implications were not considered by Council . ( And indeed , in June 2024 a large cross-party majority of lawmakers in the German Bundestag approved a resolution intended to make public grants for culture and science projects dependent on adherence to the IHRA definition of antisemitism . The resolution in terms seeks to ensure that no organisations that spread antisemitism , question Israel 's right to exist , call for a boycott of Israel , or actively support the BOS movement receive financial support . ) <p> 130 . Second , Council failed to consider the impacts that withdrawal of funds may have on its staff and students . <p> 130.1 . I attach a letter dated 20 November 2024 from the university 's Neuroscience Institute ( SFA57 ) . In this letter , the Institute laments how Council 's resolutions " have directly jeopardised donor confidence in the NI " . The Institute points out - and this is fatal to Council 's decision - that Council failed to consult with it before taking its decision . The Neuroscience Institute explains that its " very future " is now threatened by Council 's decisions . Among the signatories of this letter are the deans of Health Sciences and Humanities , two of the largest faculties at UCT . <p> 130.2 . The withdrawal of funds , and termination of future funding , from charitable foundations will have a direct impact on students . These foundations provide funding to dozens of students every year . I explain below that in 2019 UCT estimated that around 50 students per year were being funded from foundations with Jewish connections . These students are predominantly historically disadvantaged and could otherwise not afford their studies . Council 's resolutions mean that in future years a great many students will not receive funding they otherwise would have received from these foundations . <p> 131 . Council might be able to choose to jeopardise future funding for numerous students , and for entire university institutes , by " speaking out " against the actions of a foreign state . But Council can not do so without at least considering what impacts its decision will have on university students and staff . It can not do so without weighing up , for example , the harm caused to its own students and researchers against the benefits of preventing UCT staff from collaborating with Israeli academics . But that is what Council did . Reckless as to the consequences of its conduct , and in a context where the university is struggling financially , Council passed the resolutions without any consideration either of the financial consequences of its conduct or of what effect , if any , the adoption of the resolutions would have on the conduct of the Israeli government and the IDF . <p> 132 . Third , as I explained above , members of Exco knew that the DGF and Dell Foundation donations were jeopardised by Senate 's resolutions . They failed to disclose these risks at Council 's meeting . This is a material non-disclosure . It was deliberate , since Exco members present ( a ) knew of the risk to these sources of funding and ( b ) kept quiet when Council members sought to gain an understanding of the financial implications of the resolutions . This non ? disclosure suffices to set aside Council 's decision . <p> 133 . Fourth , as is apparent from Dr Tager 's affidavit , Council 's resolutions have jeopardised a donation of between R400 and R500 million to UCT for the purpose of acquiring or constructing a teaching hospital , modelled on the WDGMC . This is a profound implication of Council 's resolutions . The adoption of the resolutions means that UCT has lost the opportunity to own a private academic hospital . Council simply failed to consider this implication before taking its decision . <p> 134 . It may even go further . It appears that Exco members have breached their fiduciary duties to the university . But for this breach , the university might not have suffered losses of at least R250 million , or , considering the DGF hospital donation , as much as R750 million . Exco members may well be exposed to a damages claim from the university for their non-disclosure . As an organ of state controlling public funds that are earmarked for educational purposes , UCT has an obligation to investigate whether it has such a claim , and if advised that it does , to pursue it . <p> ( b ) The Risk Assessment Report <p> 135 . I described in my founding affidavit how in 2019 Council referred a similar resolution concerning Israel back to Senate because Senate had failed to assess the impact of the resolution on UCT ( paragraph 24 ) . <p> 136 . After Council referred the resolution back to Senate , Senate proceeded to authorise ( a ) an impact assessment report and ( b ) a survey of the UCT community regarding its 2019 resolution . <p> 137 . I attach the 2019 Risk Assessment Report ( SFA58 ) and the results of Senate 's survey ( SFA59 ) . <p> 138 . Council failed to consider the contents of these documents . <p> 139 . The contents of these documents are however relevant to Council 's decision . <p> 140 . The Report found , after a thorough consultation process Involving a set of wide-ranging interviews : <p> 140.1 . There is a high risk that the 2019 resolution , if passed , would be challenged in Court , with a medium risk of that challenge being successful . The Report refers to the two legal opinions obtained by Council and the AFC ( which Council did not consider before passing the resolutions ) . <p> 140.2 . The risk of losing funding from the US is " extremely high " if the resolution is passed . The amount at risk lies between R330 million and R660 million in research contract contributions . Losing either amount " would have catastrophic consequences for UCT " ( emphasis added ) . <p> 140.3 . The risk of losing funding from Germany and of a cessation of relations with German academic institutions is " very high " . <p> 140.4. " lt is evident from some individual discussions and communications with UCT that linked philanthropic organisations and alumni who have strong to fairly strong Jewish connections would in all likelihood review and probably phase out and/or terminate their continued association with UCT . This could have catastrophic consequences for UCT academically as well as in terms of its international networking and overall standing " ( emphasis added ) . <p> 140.5 . Donations , gifts , and endowments from entities or persons with a Jewish connection amounted to around R57 million per annum between 2015 to 2019 . This amounts to 15% of all donations , gifts , and endowments to UCT in that period . If passed , the resolutions introduce a high risk of UCT losing all these donations . <p> 140.6. " lf funding for student scholarships from sources with an identifiable Jewish connection were to be withdrawn , potentially upwards of 50 black students per annum would not be able to be assisted with the cost of their studies . This would have a very seriously detrimental effect on UCT 's transformation programme . The risk of UCT 's student scholarship programme being dealt a devasting blow upon acceptance by UCT of the Senate resolution is deemed very high " ( original emphasis ) . <p> 140.7 . " The risk attached to staff cutbacks mainly affecting casual , temporary , part-time , and contract staff , as well as post-doctoral fellowships and postgraduate student tutor and assistant positions is deemed very high . " " T ) he consequential domino effect , on UCT 's research outputs , its DHET subsidy funding levels and its transformation programmes is deemed high . " <p> 140.8 . " The risk of some of UCT 's premier health science research programmes having to be terminated due to funding cuts emanating from acceptance by UCT of the recent Senate resolution is deemed real . " <p> 141 . The Report concludes in no uncertain terms that the 2019 resolution would not be in UCT 's best interests : <p> " The net effect of accepting the Senate resolution will most certainly be that UCT would lose its standing as Africa and South Africa 's premier research-oriented university . In addition , much of the exemplary research-based work being done to solve long standing social , health and economic challenges facing the majority of South Africa 's population would be in danger of being lost . Recovering this would take years and years , if not decades with a real risk of it never being realised . <p> In view of the above it is the considered opinion that UCT Council can not accept and approve a resolution such as the recent Senate resolution forming the topic of this investigation , and at the same time claim to be acting in the best interest of the institution - this would simply not be true " ( original emphasis ) . <p> 142 . Annexure A provides a list of people interviewed or consulted by UCT . Council did not consult any of these people or otherwise consider their views . <p> 143.3 . The resolution " is a highly emotive one " . Submissions " from both sides of the aisle were poignant , passionate and personal , as much as they are rational , detailed , and factual " . <p> 143.4 . The survey report recommends that UCT clarify " which institutions are being targeted by the boycott as a significant number of respondents seem to have a lack of clarity around this " . <p> ( c ) Conclusion on relevant considerations <p> 144 . Council ignored a swathe of relevant considerations . Council has admitted as much in respect of Senate 's and the AFC 's deliberations . There can be no denying that the other factors considered above and in my founding affidavit were relevant to Council 's decision . Perhaps most crucially , Council failed to consider how passing the resolutions would cost the university many millions of rands , and threaten the futures of staff , students , and institutions at UCT . <p> 145 . The failure to consider these relevant factors is irrational . Without obtaining and considering such information , Council was not in a position to determine whether the resolutions were in UCT 's best interests , which Council must accept was among the central goals of passing the resolutions . Governance under the Higher Education Act means acting in UCT 's best interests . <p> The flaws in the process leading up to the adoption of the resolutions means that the decision was made without any reliable sense of its impact on UCT 's thousands of students and staff , and on UCT 's reputation . If a central purpose of Council 's decision is to act in UCT 's best interests ( which it must be ) , a process that failed to consider , to analyse and to provide guidance on the impact of the resolutions on UCT 's varied interests is inevitably coloured with irrationality . <p> ( ii ) No link to a purpose <p> 147 . In my founding affidavit I set out how the resolutions - particularly the second resolution - bear no link to a legitimate purpose . The second resolution is vague and both under- and overinclusive ( paragraphs 60-62 ) . <p> 148 . The rule 53 record illustrates the point . The full second resolution adopted by Council makes its breadth clear . <p> *148.1 . It prohibits UCT academics from collaborating on papers even with a thousand and more authors , and concerning a topic that has nothing to do with the war in Gaza , if a single one of those authors is a " member " of the lDF . <p> 148.2 . The resolution extends to any and a// research involving any members of the IDF or the broader Israeli military , because of the assumption that it may plausibly be considered dual-use research . ( The assumption is obviously false when applied to a// research , i.e. in a// fields of academic endeavour . ) <p> 148.3 . The resolution records that even research " that appears banal and benevolent " could be used by Israel to " create conditions that are death-making " . <p> 148.4 . The resolution calls for " high levels of scrutiny of the possibility of dual use research in Israel " . <p> 149 . So , the resolution , on its own terms , applies extensively to collaborations with Israeli academics . Any collaboration will be viewed as suspect , and invite investigation and censure . The chilling effect- at the very least- is profound . Academics will be deterred from any kind of association with Israelis given the profound suspicion in the resolution of " dual use research " . <p> ( iii ) Lack of authority <p> 150 . In my founding affidavit , I said that Council did not have authority to pass the resolutions for two reasons . <p> 150.1 . First , the resolutions contravene Council 's own policy on taking a position on issues of public importance ( paragraph 66 ) . The rule 53 record affirms this ground of review . As I explained above , on numerous occasions Council , Senate , and UCT recognise that the war in Gaza is a divisive and polarising issue at UCT . Council , accordingly , could not be satisfied that its resolutions " will command widespread ( though not necessarily unanimous ) support " . ( The rule 53 record also shows that Council did not have the policy before it . ) <p> 150.2 . Second , Council is not empowered by the Higher Education Act to limit academic freedom by ( a ) taking a position on contested academic debates and ( b ) preventing academics from collaborating with other academics ( paragraphs 69 and 74 ) . This is mainly a legal argument . But the rule 53 record confirms that ( a ) the AFC concluded that the second resolution limits academic freedom and <p> ( b ) the IHRA definition is a contested academic issue ( on which Council was materially mistaken ) . ( Again , the documents were not before Council . ) <p> 151 . In what follows , I introduce a further ground for the unlawfulness of Council 's decision . Council 's decision violated UCT 's Risk Management Policy read with the Regulations for Reporting by Public Higher Education Institutions published under GN R464 in GG 37726 of 9 June 2014 . <p> ( a ) UCT 's Risk Management Po/icV .. <p> 152 . I attach to this affidavit UCT 's Risk Management Policy dated June 2020 as approved by Council ( SFA60 ) . <p> 153 . Council , which is bound by this Policy , acted contrary to it . <p> 153.1 . The Policy applies to risks , which it defines as " any threat or event that is currently occurring , or that has a reasonable chance of occurring in the future , which could undermine the institution 's pursuit of its goals and objectives . It manifests as negative impacts on goals and objectives or as missed opportunities to enhance institutional performance " . The resolutions , plainly , posed risks to the university . <p> 153.2 . Clause 7.1 of the Policy provides : " Council has the responsibility of maintaining and ensuring that the University is financially , socially and environmentally sustainable . " Council failed to adhere to this duty by not considering the financial implications of its decision . Instead , Council closed its eyes to the financial and social implications of its decision and how those implications might detract from the sustainability of UCT . <p> 153.3 . Clause 7.2 refers to the UARC . The UARC is tasked with assisting Council " in ensuring sound corporate governance and acceptable risk management " . Council failed to consult the UARC despite the obvious risks posed by the resolutions . Instead , as I explained above , the UARC only advised Council of the fallout from the resolutions after they were passed . Predictably , the UARC explained that Council had caused the withdrawal of donations and funds in a context when the biggest risk facing UCT is its financial viability . <p> 154 . Clause 7.1 also provides that " Council remains committed to good corporate governance standards noted in the King IV Code " . But Council acted contrary to the King IV Code . <p> 154.1 . The Code requires Council to consider the economic , social and environmental factors while exercising their powers . Council did not do so . <p> 154.2 . The Code requires an objective investigation into the effects of the Senate resolutions on the interests of UCT . The Code also requires members of Council to " take reasonably diligent steps to become informed about matters for decision " . Council did not do this . <p> 154.3 . The Code obliges Council to adopt a " stakeholder-inclusive approach " , which implies considering " the needs , interests and expectations of material stakeholders in the best interests of the organisation over time " . Council did not do so . <p> ( b ) The Requlations <p> 155 . The Risk Management Policy should be read with the Regulations for Reporting by Public Higher Education Institutions . <p> 155.1 . The Regulations include an Implementation Manual for Reporting by Public Higher Education Institutions . <p> 155.2 . The Manual ( in item 4 ) provides that " public higher education institutions must demonstrate good governance , sustainability and corporate citizenship " . The Manual then lists Council 's governance responsibilities , which include to " act as the focal point for and custodian of governance in the institution " , " understand that strategy , risk , performance and sustainability are inseparable " , and " act in the best interests of public higher education institutions " . <p> 156 . These duties are critical . Council is not only obliged to act rationally and lawfully , but is also obliged to exercise good governance and act in the best interests of the university . It can not be said to have done so by passing the resolutions without at least assessing : <p> 156.1. the financial implications of the resolutions ; <p> 156.2. the impact of the resolutions on students and staff , including both financial and social impact ; and <p> 156.3. the views of the AFC , Senate , affected students and staff , and the broader UCT community . <p> ( iv ) Procedural unfairness <p> 157 . The rule 53 record confirms that - unlike the process in 2019 - Council ( and Senate before it ) did not consult with staff and students directly affected by the resolutions . The record thus confirms the allegation of procedural unfairness in my founding affidavit at paragraph 80 . <p> E. REMEDY AND COSTS <p> 158 . Council is obliged to demonstrate good governance . It must act in the best interests of UCT . <p> 159 . Council has not done so . Council took a decision reckless as to its extensive detrimental consequences . Council took a decision without considering , or being in a position to consider , whether the decision was in the best interests of UCT . Council 's decision can not stand . Both resolutions should be reviewed and set aside , as I ask in the notice of motion . <p> 160 . This Court , with respect , should go further . It should award personal costs orders against ( a ) the Chair of Council , ( b ) the respondent Exco members of Council , and ( c ) those Council members who voted to oppose this application . <p> 161 . With respect to the Chair of Council , he should be ordered to pay a percentage to be determined by this Court of the costs of this application in his personal capacity : <p> 161.1 . He failed to disclose the impact of the resolutions of Council on funding by the DGF and the Dell Foundation , despite knowing those impacts . <p> 161.2 . The Chair knew of those impacts better than the other Exco members , since he ( a ) signed the contract with the DGF ( twice - once in September 2023 and again in November 2023 ) , and ( b ) met with the DGF 's representatives between Exco 's meeting and Council 's meeting . Given this knowledge , and his position as Chair , he owed Council a heightened duty to disclose the implications for the DGF and Dell Foundation donations . <p> 161.3 . The Chair , moreover , appears to be behind the decision not to disclose a complete transcript of Council 's meeting . This refusal is in bad faith and entirely unwarranted in law . Council was advised of its duty to disclose the recording of its meeting . The Chair tendered disclosure of the transcript ( without any mention of its being redacted ) , but then reneged on that tender twice . I am advised that the failure to disclose a full and complete record is a strong factor in favour of a personal costs order , certainly considering that the Chair , first and foremost , is an officer of this Court , and secondly considering that he exercises a public power . <p> 162 . With respect to those other respondents who were both members of Exco and present during the relevant part of Council 's meeting of 22 June 2024 , they should each be ordered to pay a determined percentage of the costs of this application in their personal capacity , jointly and severally . They failed to <p> disclose the DGF and Dell Foundation donations to Council at the meeting of 22 June 2024 . I have alleged that this non-disclosure was in bad faith . But even if it was not deliberate , it was negligent . A reasonable Exco member , acting consistently with their fiduciary duties , would have disclosed the impact the resolutions would have on the DGF and Dell Foundation donations . The university should not pay the costs of this application occasioned by this material non-disclosure . <p> 163 . As for those Council members who voted to oppose this application , they should pay a percentage of the costs of this application in their personal capacity , jointly and severally . These members decided to oppose this application , without seeing the rule 53 record and without seeing this affidavit . This warrants opprobrium ; the University should not incur legal costs by members of Council who decide to oppose applications without seeing all relevant evidence and grounds of review . <p> 164 . This Court may determine the percentages for the above personal costs liability commensurate with the degree of its displeasure . Given the Chair 's role , his percentage ought to be higher than those of the other members of Council . <p> 165 . I seek the above percentages for costs on an attorney and client scale . The reasons warranting personal costs orders in this application imply a punitive costs order too . Council , under the leadership of its Chair and Exco , has had a severe lapse in governance . Exco materially failed to disclose pertinent facts to Council . Council elected to oppose this application at a time when it <p> could not have known whether it had a meritorious defence . The practice of empty opposition to meritorious public law claims brought in good faith against organs of state must end . This Court ought to underscore that necessity with a costs order on the attorney and client scale . <p> 166 . For these reasons , I seek the order in the amended notice of motion filed together with this affidavit . The notice of motion is amended to include the above costs orders . <p> ADAM MENDELSOHN <p> 11 January 2025 <p> I certify that on the /s-11 day of January 2025 and at Cape Town the above deponent appeared before me and that he acknowledged to me that he knows and understands the contents of the above affidavit , which affidavit was signed and sworn to in my presence in accordance with the requirements of Regulation No . R1428 dated 16 November 1984 , as amended , which have been fulfilled .
