@@51653339 <p> A Palestinian Muazzin , a person who calls for prayers , reads the Koran in an almost empty mosque on the first Friday of the holy fasting month of Ramadan as prayers by worshippers in the holy places are suspended due to concerns about the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) in the northern Gaza Strip April 24 , 2020 . REUTERS <h> An imam standing atop an 18-foot pulpit in a near-empty Al-Aqsa Mosque delivered the first Friday prayers of Ramadan in Jerusalem , his voice echoing across an empty and windswept plateau almost devoid of worshippers . <p> In historic scenes rarely , if ever , witnessed at the third holiest site in Islam , below him kneeled only a handful of Muslim clerics in facemasks , staying several feet apart because of coronavirus restrictions . <p> " We ask God to have mercy on us and all of humanity and to save us from this lethal pandemic , " the imam said . <p> In normal years during Ramadan Friday prayers Muslim worshippers gather by the tens of thousands on the tree-lined hilltop plateau that lies at the heart of Jerusalem 's Old City and is known to Muslims as al-Haram al-Sharif ( Noble Sanctuary ) and to Jews as the Temple Mount . <p> But this year the 35-acre compound around Al-Aqsa Mosque and the golden Dome of the Rock was almost deserted , just a tiny handful of faithful standing in a short line , rising and kneeling in unison . <p> Few also turned up outside the walls of the Old City , just 10 people - the maximum allowed by Israeli authorities - praying outside Lion 's Gate facing the Mount of Olives . <p> Israel has reported nearly 15,000 cases of coronavirus , with 193 deaths . In the Palestinian Territories around 350 cases have been confirmed , with two fatalities . <p> In March , Muslim religious authorities closed the gates to worshippers due to the coronavirus epidemic , and this has been extended throughout Ramadan . <p> Jewish and Christian religious authorities have imposed similar precautionary measures at their holy sites , including the Western Wall and the Church of the Holy Sepulchre . 
@@51681607 <h> Others <p> The death toll from the shipwreck that occurred on Saturday on the Amazon River in northern Brazil has reached six , authorities said on Sunday . <p> Authorities said that the rescue team led by the Navy will continue to search for more victims . <p> The ship left Amapa state for neighboring Para state on Friday evening and capsized on the Amazon River early on Saturday morning . <p> Authorities initially reported 16 people went missing . As the vessel did not have a passenger list , the real number of the missing is unknown . <p> The boat was transporting 60 to 70 people at the time of the accident , much below its maximum capacity of 242 . Authorities said the vessel , named Anna Karoline III , was authorized to transport both passengers and cargo . <p> The cause of the accident remains unclear and there will be an investigation into this . <p> Survivors said it was windy at the time , which caused some passengers to fall into the river . <p> For the third time in under a year , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is seeking re-election , and once again the Israeli leader is on the ropes . <p> After two inconclusive elections last year , opinion polls forecast another stalemate -- a troubling scenario for Netanyahu , who will go on trial on corruption charges just two weeks after Monday 's vote . <p> This election campaign has been especially tumultuous . President Donald Trump launched his long-awaited Mideast plan , a proposal that heavily favored Israel and was seen as an election gift to Netanyahu . The Israeli leader , meanwhile , was forced to drop his bid for immunity from prosecution , and just a week ago , Israel battled Gaza militants in a two-day round of fighting . <p> Monday 's election is seen as another referendum on Netanyahu , the country 's longest serving prime minister . And once again , the country seems hopelessly divided . <p> With seeming boundless energy , the 70-year-old Netanyahu has taken to the airwaves and hit the campaign trail , presenting himself to adoring audiences as a global statesman uniquely qualified to lead the country through its many complicated challenges . In recent weeks , he jetted from the White House to Moscow to bring home a young Israeli woman jailed there on drug charges , and flew to Uganda for a surprise meeting with a leader of Sudan , a longtime enemy country . <p> " We have turned Israel into a world power , a leader in cyber technology , natural gas , water , agriculture , technology , intelligence , " Netanyahu boasted at a recent campaign stop . <p> He claims credit for a strong economy and boasts of his close relationships with world leaders , first and foremost Trump , while deriding opponent Benny Gantz as a lightweight . In a message that has drawn accusations of racism , he also accuses Gantz of plotting with Arab lawmakers to oust him . In recent days , Netanyahu and his Likud surrogates spread unfounded allegations claiming his opponent is corrupt , unstable and susceptible to blackmail by Iran . <p> Gantz , a former military chief of staff , has focused his campaign on Netanyahu 's character , saying a man accused of serious crimes is unfit to lead . He has painted Netanyahu as an out-of-touch egomaniac obsessed with remaining in power and escaping justice , while portraying himself as a moderate alternative to the polarizing prime minister . <p> " Netanyahu , look me in the eye . Because of your obsession with evading trial , you 're lying , attacking , dividing , mudslinging , spreading malicious rumors and inciting . Netanyahu , you 're poisoning Israel , " Gantz said last week . " You 've lost it , and you 're unworthy of being prime minister for even a single day longer . " <p> Weekend polls , the last to be published before the vote , showed Gantz 's Blue and White and Netanyahu 's Likud party in a tight race , though Gantz 's party has shown some small signs of slippage over the past week . Even so , the polls forecast both parties and their smaller partners will again fall short of securing the 61-seat majority in parliament required to form a government . <p> The easiest way out of the deadlock would be a unity government between the two parties , which together are expected to control a solid majority in the 120-seat parliament . <p> But Gantz says he will only form a partnership with Likud if Netanyahu steps down . Netanyahu insists he remain prime minister in any unity deal . <p> The deadlock has raised the possibility of a fourth election in quick succession . <p> Turnout of key voting groups could end up deciding the race . Weather may play a role , along with fears of the new corona virus , which so far has been kept largely in check . Israel set up some 15 stations to allow voting by the several thousand Israelis who are in home-quarantine after possible exposure to the virus . <p> The biggest obstacle may be voter fatigue . <p> " People are fed up . They think ' we 're doomed to another gridlock , so what 's the point of voting ? " said Guy Ben-Porat , chairman of the department of politics and government at Israel 's Ben-Gurion University . " I think this is the decisive factor in turnout , but I ca n't tell on which side it will work more . " <p> Netanyahu has been charged with fraud , breach of trust and accepting bribes in a series of scandals in which he is accused of accepting lavish gifts from wealthy friends or exchanging favors with powerful media moguls . <p> With his trial set to start March 17 , he is desperate to remain in office . As prime minister , Netanyahu can use his position to rally public support and lash out at what he claims is a vast conspiracy by police , overzealous prosecutors and a hostile media to oust him . <p> Israeli law allows a prime minister to remain in office even if charged with a crime , while requiring other public officials to resign once indicted . <p> While another stalemate seems to be likely , the election could still deliver surprises . <p> Late last week , the Justice Ministry said it would open an investigation into possible financial wrongdoing by a start-up security firm that Gantz chaired after leaving the military . The late-hour announcement was blasted by Gantz 's supporters as politically motivated , but it 's not clear if it 's had an impact on voters . <p> The firm , which later went out of business , is believed to have won a lucrative police contract without going through a bidding process . Gantz was not named as a suspect . <p> If Netanyahu and his allies can somehow muster a majority , it would give him a new lifeline -- along with hopes of passing legislation to protect him from prosecution . <p> Gantz 's road to victory is even trickier . Cobbling together a coalition would likely rely on outside support from Arab-majority parties -- a politically unpopular choice that Gantz has ruled out . It also would likely require the support of Avigdor Lieberman , a former Netanyahu ally . <p> Lieberman , a wily political operator who has long caused headaches for Netanyahu , has refused to commit to either candidate . But he also has said he will not allow a fourth consecutive election , raising speculation he will ultimately side with Gantz . <p> Yohanan Plesner , president of the Israel Democracy Institute , a Jerusalem think tank , said that if the polls are accurate , the country could face many more months of gridlock unless someone compromises . <p> " It 's uncharted territory , " he said . " And if we judge it based on what we learned in the previous cycle , then the deadlock would mean a fourth election . " <p> Iran 's health ministry on Sunday raised the nationwide death toll from the new coronavirus to 54 as the number of confirmed infected cases jumped overnight by more than half to 978 people . <p> The ministry 's spokesman Kianoush Jahanpour said new cases were confirmed in a number of cities , including Mashhad , which is home to Iran 's most important Shiite shrine that attracts pilgrims from across the region . Calls by Iran 's civilian government to clerics to close such shrines to to the public have not been uniformly followed . The shrine in Mashhad is among those that have remained open . <p> The new figures represent 11 more deaths than reported on Saturday and a whopping 385 new cases of infections . The new numbers , however , bring down the percentage of deaths to infections to around 5.5% . Still , that is much higher than other countries , suggesting the number of infections in Iran may be much higher than current figures show . <p> Jahanpour said in his daily briefing that the number of cases is " still inclining " across Iran . <p> Of the 385 newly confirmed cases , 170 are in Tehran , where schools and cinemas have remained closed for the second week . Public buses and the metro are still operating , but are being disinfected daily there . Authorities also doused busy streets in the capital . <p> The ministry spokesman said that 44 cases were also confirmed for the first time in the central Markazi province . <p> Also on Sunday , Iran 's state broadcaster said all flights to and from the city of Rasht , the capital of nothern Gilan province , had been suspended . It gave no reasons why . The area of Gilan has some of Iran 's highest number of infections after the capital , Tehran , and the holy city of Qom , the epicenter of the virus outbreak in the country . <p> The Revolutionary Guard said it plans to install mobile hospitals in Qom and Rasht cities , where the virus has infected high numbers of people . The Guard has also been photographed in state media leading disinfection efforts in some cities . <p> Ali Reza Jalali , the head of the Guard 's medical college , told state TV that Iran is going through a " hard time and dangerous period . " He claimed the group is researching a possible vaccine for the disease . <p> There is currently no vaccine for the novel coronavirus . Researchers around the world are working to find one , but anything widely usable is likely more than a year away . <p> The illness , known as COVID-19 and which originated in central China , has infected at least seven government officials in Iran , including one of its vice presidents and a senior health ministry official . <p> After days of assurances that the virus was largely under control , officials recently acknowledged Iran is preparing for the possibility of " tens of thousands " of people getting tested for the virus . <p> The first cases were not reported in Iran until Feb. 19 , the same day that the two elderly infected people died . Since then , of the more than 1,100 cases in the Middle East , the majority trace back to Iran . Cases from Iran have been reported in Kuwait , Bahrain , Oman , the United Arab Emirates , Qatar , Lebanon , Afghanistan , Iraq and Pakistan . <p> Iraq 's Health Ministry announced there were 19 confirmed virus cases in the country , after six more discoveries were made Sunday , including four in the Kurdish city of Sulaymaniyah near the Iranian border . Iraq , which shares a huge border with Iran and relies on Iranian pilgrims for religious tourism , has banned Iranians from traveling to the country and closed schools and universities until March 10 . <p> Bahrain 's state-run news agency reported new cases jumped to 47 on Sunday , up from 38 the previous day . <p> Starting on Sunday , all nurseries in the UAE licensed by the education ministry were closed for at least two weeks to limit the spread of the virus , and Kuwait suspended school until March 12 . Lebanon , which has 10 confirmed cases , ordered all nurseries , schools and universities shut until March 8 . <p> The virus has infected more than 86,000 people worldwide and caused more than 2,900 deaths since emerging in China . Iran has the world 's highest death toll outside of China , where there has been 2,870 deaths among close to 80,000 cases . <p> The outbreak in Iran has prompted its neighbors to seal their borders to Iranians , while other Gulf states have halted flights to Iran . On Saturday , the U.S. announced heightened warnings about travel to certain regions of Italy and South Korea , as well as a ban on travel to Iran , due to the virus . <p> Qatar 's government communications office said the country is barring Egyptians from entry as a public health measure due to the virus . Egypt , along with three other Gulf countries , cut ties with Qatar three years ago . Egypt has reported only one case of the virus , a Chinese national , who the Egyptian government and the World Health Organization say has recovered . <p> Ali Ahmadi , a resident in Tehran , said the U.S. has already made it difficult for Iranians , including its scientists , to travel there . <p> " Now that the virus has appeared , we expect nothing less from America , " he said , expressing widespread frustration with U.S. policies on Iran . <p> Islam 's holiest sites in Saudi Arabia have been closed to foreign pilgrims to limit the spread of the virus . The kingdom does not have any reported cases of the virus , and has halted all fights to and from China and Iran . <p> One of the most important Shiite shrines in the world in Iraq 's Najaf city has also closed to Iranian pilgrims after a student from Iran studying there was confirmed to have the highly infectious virus . <p> Saeed Moghaddam , also in Tehran , said Iranians are suffering because of a virus that came from China <p> " We are not the cause of this virus spreading in other countries . We are battling with this ourselves , " he said . <p> Also , Sudanese authorities on Sunday said the United Arab Emirates was helping evacuate some 160 Sudanese students from Wuhan , the city at the center of the virus outbreak in China . The evacuation was scheduled Sunday but moved to Tuesday due to logistical reasons , they said . <p> It was unclear whether the students would be quarantined upon return in Sudan or the UAE , which has also helped evacuate Yemeni students from Wuhan . <p> Haunting music greeted drizzled-on VIP guests , including singer Janelle Mon ? e , who braved torrential rains in Paris to get to Valentino 's experimental fashion show near the Invalides monument on Sunday . At Issey Miyake , a lone artist strode out to create an artistic installation on a vast white sheet of wall paper that had guests reaching for their cameras . Here are some highlights of the fall-winter 2020 ready-to-wear shows at Paris Fashion Week . <p> VALENTINO EXPERIMENTS WITH SUBTLE KINK <p> Valentino 's designer Pierpaolo Piccioli has been in an experimental mood of late . <p> In Sunday 's ready-to-wear show at Paris Fashion Week , this was more than apparent as the Italian-born designer dramatically departed from the house 's oft-angelic signature designs . It was a nice change . In the place of purity this season was subtle kink . <p> Even the Renaissance-style capes , a Valentino touchstone for ages , were crafted for this fall in a provocative sheeny black on a model with dark eye make-up , stomping black wedge boots and long blood-red leather gloves . This angel had fallen from heaven long ago , the show seemed to say . <p> Aside from the kinky elements , there were lots great fashion-forward plays on shape . A black scarf insert fell off the back of one shoulder with an off-kilter air , like the single fallen wing of a dark angel . <p> ISSEY MIYAKE 'S VISUAL POETRY <p> With a black felt-tip pen at the start of Issey Miyake 's Paris fashion show , an artist sketched out a human shape on a paper sheet with speed and impressive precision . Then , to gasps from the audience , that shape -- and others next to it -- were cut out . <p> As sections of paper fell to the ground , models appeared from behind the holes . <p> It was an imaginative start to designer Satoshi Kondo 's fall show , which began with a geometric series that riffed on this idea of thick lines cut out on clothes . All sorts of shapes and square sections flickered out . The collection soon expanded into bright hues -- with sheeny silk fabrics , weaves in extra-fine nylon yarn and colorful knits . <p> Several busy jazzy prints -- one in particular in apricot -- seemed a little unnecessary and distracted from the beautiful shapes in the designs . But Kondo made up for it with a deft play in form using the codes of the Japanese maison . <p> Silk dresses curved back around at the bottom -- like a sort of parachute sleeve -- and formed a cape-hybrid . It filled with air as the models walked , and in the beautiful motion , it seemed as if the models might take flight . <p> CHANEL TO LIVE-STREAM <p> Luxury French brand Chanel said in addition to hosting its Paris Fashion Week show Tuesday , it will live-stream it on all of the storied house 's social media platforms and its website , due to the new coronavirus outbreak . <p> Editors , such as those from China , who have not traveled to Paris or others in the industry who have anxiety over possibly contracting COVID-19 can thus see the display . <p> France has banned all indoor public gatherings of more than 5,000 people to slow its snowballing spread of virus cases and recommending that people no longer greet each other with kisses . At Paris Fashion Week , this has created a new form of greeting -- the elbow touch . The number of French virus cases almost doubled to 100 over the weekend , including two deaths . <p> Chanel 's U.S. office staff will not be in Paris for the show , owing to fears over the virus . <p> THOM BROWNE 'S GENDER-FLUID PINSTRIPES <p> The pinstripe-suited and gender-fluid designs of inventive U.S. designer Thom Browne were shown again this season in a winter wonderland snowscape where spring was a frozen garden , fall was a white wood . <p> Models , in twos , passed through large wooden doors in the center of the runway -- evoking the magical furniture in C.S. Lewis ' Narnia chronicle " The Lion , the Witch and the Wardrobe . " <p> Indeed , animal masks -- such as a horse and a rhino -- appeared on some models , who also had handbags in the form of a dog and other creatures . The models wore unusual black mesh headgear that shrouded the eyes . <p> Fashion-wise , the wacky designs meshed multicolored stripes and the occasional lozenge-shaped argyll check , often in socks , in intentionally divergent styles . One blown-up check plaid in Yankees blue was inserted unexpectedly as the sleeves of a striped coat , above a gray skirt and white-laced snow boots . <p> Corset-style items and large bows on the hip -- almost celebrating a Christmas gift -- added to Browne 's magical eccentricity . <p> Coronavirus infections in Italy rose 50% Sunday and the U.S. government issued its strongest travel warning yet , advising Americans against any travel to two regions in northern Italy that have been hard hit by the virus that first emerged in China in December . <p> Authorities said the total number of people infected in Italy had risen to 1,694 , a 50% jump from just 24 hours earlier . Five more people infected with the virus have died , bringing the deaths in Italy to 34 , while 83 people have fully recovered . <p> Italian health authorities said the increases were expected , since it takes as long as two weeks for containment measures to take effect , and because Italy has a large number of elderly people . Still , the numbers highlighted the rapid impact the virus is having on Italy , the epicenter of the outbreak in Europe . <p> ' ' This acceleration was expected , unfortunately , ' ' said Giovanni Rezza , director of the infective illness department at the National Health Institute . He said it would be another week or 10 days until the spread of the virus slowed down in the country . <p> With numerous cases in other European countries traced back to Italy , many countries have issued travel warnings for the 11 Italian towns that have been on lockdown since the virus exploded there on Feb. 21 . But none have gone as far as the U.S. government , which on Sunday urged Americans not to travel to the regions of Lombardy and Veneto , raising the warning to the highest level . It is one step shy of the U.S. travel advisory for China , which urged Americans to leave the country . <p> In the wake of the warning , Delta and American Airlines have both suspended flights to Italy 's financial capital of Milan , which can have a potentially devastating business impact beyond just tourism . Already a major furniture and design fair has been postponed due to the virus until June . <p> Tourism officials said an earlier U.S. travel warning covering all of Italy was potentially calamitous to the industry , which represents 13% of gross domestic product in a country famed for its world-class museums , archaeological sites , art cities and natural beauty . <p> More than 5.6 million Americans visit Italy every year , representing 9% of foreign tourists and the second-largest national group behind Germans , according to the most recent statistics . <p> China accounts for the vast majority of the 88,000 people infected by the virus and the 3,000 killed by it . <p> Lombardy , which includes Milan , accounts for over half of the cases while Veneto and Emilia-Romagna have 15% and 17% , respectively . All three regions have closed schools for at least another week . In Veneto and Lombardy , closures also have hit museums , theaters , cinemas and most public offices , emptying cities like Milan , where many companies have permitted office workers to telecommute . <p> Earlier Sunday , the French community church in Rome , St. Louis of the French , closed its doors to the public after a priest was infected with the new virus . <p> The church in the historic center of Rome is famous for three paintings by the Baroque master Caravaggio , making it a destination for tourists and the faithful alike . A sign on the door Sunday noted in French that the church had been closed as a precaution by the French Embassy for both Masses and tourist visits until further notice . <p> The Religious Information Service news agency reported the church was closed after a 43-year-old priest who had returned to Paris was hospitalized after being infected . It carried a statement by the archbishop of Paris , Michel Aupetit , who said the priest , who had been living in Rome , returned to Paris by car in mid-February and tested positive for the virus on Friday . He was in good condition , Aupetit said . <p> It was the first church in Rome closed by the virus . Churches in much of Veneto and Lombardy have closed their doors under widespread measures aimed at containing the spread of the virus . Televised Masses have been available for the faithful . 
@@51690467 <h> Others <p> New York , Dec 21 ( AP/UNB ) -- How do you measure a chicken 's happiness ? Is it in the way it runs for food ? How much time it spends preening ? <p> To size up what might make chickens happy in their brief lives , researchers at the University of Guelph in Ontario , Canada , are putting 16 breeds through physical fitness and behavioral tests . They 're watching how well birds scramble over a barrier for food , how skittish they seem and whether they play with a fake worm . <p> Chickens ca n't say how they feel , but playing with a fake worm may be a sign of happiness . <p> " We have to infer when an animal is happy or content or experiencing pleasure based on their behavior , " said Stephanie Torrey , one of the researchers . <p> In recent years , the animal welfare world has moved beyond looking at how to minimize suffering to exploring whether animals can also enjoy their lives , Torrey said . <p> Such measures may be considered irrelevant by companies but underscore a broader lack of consensus around the welfare of chickens , which are sometimes slaughtered as soon as five weeks after hatching . <p> Animal welfare advocates say cruelty begins with birds that have been bred to have breasts so big they can barely walk . They say today 's chickens are genetic monstrosities crippled by pain and that the industry needs to switch breeds . <p> Many in the industry say there 's no problem and that chickens may not move around a lot because they 're sedentary . Even if they were to agree to change breeds , it 's not clear what the alternatives should look like . <p> The two sides disagree about the cause and frequency of health issues among broilers chickens . Tyson and Sanderson Farms , for example , acknowledge that chicken breasts have ballooned over the years , but they say they 're not seeing widespread problems as a result . <p> " If they ca n't move and get to the feed trough , they 're not going to survive , " said Mike Cockrell , chief financial officer for Sanderson Farms . <p> John Glisson of the U.S. Poultry and Egg Association says broiler chickens are " couch potatoes " and that some people may mistake the birds ' laziness for a medical issue . He said trying to assess welfare is tricky beyond established industry measures , like whether a chicken dies from disease before it 's slaughtered . <p> The industry says changing breeds is unnecessary , and that switching to broiler chickens that do n't grow as big or as fast would mean using up more water and other resources . Chicken prices at the supermarket would be higher too . <p> Still , animal welfare is becoming a bigger public relations concern , and companies say they 're always looking for ways to take better care of their chickens . <p> Tyson recently ran a trial that let chickens pick from pens with varying levels of light to determine which they prefer . Perdue is testing giving its conventional birds as much light and space as its organic birds , which are the same breed . <p> The Humane Society of the United States says stepping up living conditions helps , but it believes the bigger problem is breeding that has resulted in disfigured chickens . It says chickens have been genetically manipulated to have massive breasts their legs can not support . <p> " It is crazy for anyone to have to remind the industry that birds naturally walk , " said Josh Balk , the Humane Society 's vice president of farm animal protection . <p> Balk said the study in Canada will provide important information on what type of chickens might suffer less . <p> University of Guelph researchers are also tracking chicken traits like weight , growth rate and meat quality they hope will be useful to the industry . Aviagen and Tyson-owned Cobb , which supply breeds to chicken producers , are providing birds for the study , including breeds that are widely used . <p> The companies say they already track health and welfare , but that they 're interested in the research . <p> The Guelph study is being funded by the Global Animal Partnership , which certifies corporate animal welfare standards . In 2016 , it launched a campaign to get companies to switch to " slower growing " breeds . Since then , it has acknowledged that chicken welfare is more complicated than just growth rate . <p> It 's now pushing for a " better " chicken , and hopes the study will help define what that entails . <p> Only a small percentage of chickens in the U.S. are GAP-certified , and spelling out new requirements for breeds risks making certification even rarer . <p> Anne Malleau , the group 's executive director , notes some of the researchers ' tests may seem far out . But she said providing " enrichments " -- such as places where chickens can rest or perch -- was also seen as a fringe idea before becoming more accepted . <p> GAP was founded a decade ago with funding from Whole Foods , which still pays Malleau 's and another staffer 's salaries . <p> Back in Guelph , researchers note that chicken traits can make for marketable imagery . That includes behaviors like their willingness to engage with a fake worm -- which they note may be misinterpreted as " playing " and happiness . <p> " The jury 's still out whether domestic chickens , with their comparatively smaller brains , have the capacity to play , " Torrey said . <p> Albania , Dec 20 ( AP/UNB ) -- Albania said Wednesday that it has expelled two Iranian diplomats for allegedly engaging in illegal activities that threaten the country 's security . <p> A spokesman from the Foreign Ministry told The Associated Press that the two diplomats were expelled for " violating their diplomatic status . " The spokesman said the move followed talks with other countries , including Israel . <p> A tweet from President Donald Trump 's national security adviser , John Bolton , provided the first report that Albania had expelled the Iranian ambassador . <p> Bolton praised Albanian Prime Minister Edi Rama for expelling " the Iranian ambassador , signaling to Iran 's leaders that their support for terrorism will not be tolerated . " <p> " We stand with PM Rama and the Albanian people as they stand up to Iran 's reckless behavior in Europe and across the globe , " he wrote . <p> Private Top Channel television said the Iranians were suspected of illegal activities related to a World Cup qualifying match between Albania and Israel two years ago . About 20 people were arrested in Albania and Kosovo following that match , which was threatened with an alleged terrorist plot . <p> Albanian officials would not confirm that report . <p> Albania is also home to more than 2,000 members of the Iranian exile opposition group Mujahedin el-Khalk , which moved from Iraq . <p> The airport suspended all flights , causing severe disruptions just days before Christmas during one of the heaviest travel times of the year . <p> Police and aviation authorities were still investigating early Thursday as incoming flights were diverted to other locations in Britain and nearby countries . <p> Passengers complained on Twitter that their flights had landed at London Heathrow , Manchester , Birmingham and other cities . Other flights were sent to France and the Netherlands . <p> One traveler whose flight was diverted tweeted that passengers were not being told when they could continue to their destination . <p> Gatwick advised travelers via Twitter to check flights scheduled for Thursday before heading to the airport . It also advised anyone planning to pick up arriving passengers to check first . <p> Any problem at Gatwick causes a ripple effect throughout Britain and continental Europe , particularly during a holiday period when the air traffic control system is under strain . <p> It is a busy airport 27 miles ( 43 kilometers ) south of London , hosting a variety of short- and long-haul flights and serving as a major hub for the budget carrier easyJet . <p> Gatwick normally operates throughout the night but the number of flights is restricted because of noise limitations . The airport website says it usually handles 18 to 20 flights overnight during the winter months . <p> Gatwick said in a statement that it apologized for the inconvenience but had to put place safety first . <p> There have been occasional reports of drones nearly hitting commercial airliners in the London area in recent years . <p> Strong sales of small consumer drones have led to repeated warnings about a possible threat to scheduled flights . <p> Brussels , Dec 19 ( AP/UNB ) -- Belgian Prime Minister Charles Michel submitted his resignation Tuesday amid pressure on his government after the biggest coalition party quit over Michel 's support for a United Nations compact on international migration . <p> " I am taking the decision to offer my resignation . I am now going to see the king " to inform him , " Michel told Belgian lawmakers . <p> Before the prime minister gave his notice , lawmakers had been demanding he submit his new minority government to a confidence vote . But Michel refused , and a confrontation this week seemed likely . <p> Michel tried to convince the Chamber of Representatives of the reshaped government 's plans and said he would be ready to work with the opposition , but his overtures were rejected . His 2019 budget was among the sensitive topics up for debate . <p> Some in the assembly pushed for an election to be held before the regularly scheduled one in May . Michel again refused , saying it would only lead to " stagnation for the whole of 2019 . " After a short break for reflection , he announced he was resigning instead . <p> As lawmakers applauded , he picked up his briefcase , shook the hands of a number of government ministers , and left . Michel made no comment to reporters upon entering and leaving Belgian King Philippe 's residence , the Palace of Laeken in Brussels . <p> The king holds a largely symbolic role in Belgium but becomes a pivotal figure after inconclusive elections or disputes like the current one require the formation of new governments . <p> In a tweet , the Royal Palace said Philippe had received Michel and was " withholding his decision " about what steps to take next . <p> Belgian media said the king would meet party leaders Wednesday before deciding whether to accept the resignation the prime minister tendered on behalf of himself and his government . <p> Michel could be invited to lead a caretaker government until an election can be held . <p> It 's the first time the king has faced such a crisis . He ascended to the throne in 2013 after his father , King Albert II , abdicated for health reasons . <p> The right-wing N-VA party quit the government after Michel sought parliamentary approval to support the U.N . compact against its wishes , branding his minority government " the Marrakech coalition , " after the city where the migration treaty was signed just over a week ago . <p> The accord is non-binding , but the N-VA said it still went too far and would give even migrants who were in Belgium without authorization many additional rights . <p> The party launched an in-your-face social media campaign against the compact , featuring pictures of Muslim women with their faces covered and claiming that the accord focused on allowing migrants to retain the cultural practices of their homelands . But it quickly withdrew the materials after the campaign received widespread criticism . <p> A number of governments refused to sign the U.N . Global Compact Global Compact for Safe , Orderly and Regular Migration . They included the United States , but also a group of European Union countries , among them Austria which holds the EU 's rotating presidency until Dec. 31 . <p> New York , Dec 19 ( AP/UNB ) -- The number of journalists killed worldwide in retaliation for their work nearly doubled this year , according to an annual report by the Committee to Protect Journalists . <p> The New York-based organization found that 34 journalists were killed in retaliation for their work as of Dec. 14 , while at least 53 were killed overall . That compares to 18 retaliation killings among the 47 deaths documented by the committee in 2017 . <p> The report issued Wednesday includes the killing of Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi , a native of Saudi Arabia fiercely critical of its royal regime . His Oct. 2 death inside the Saudi consulate in Istanbul has led to tremors on the global political scene around allegations that Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman was involved . <p> Khashoggi lived in self-imposed exile in the United States , and had gone to the Saudi consulate to formalize his divorce , but was instead strangled and dismembered -- allegedly by Saudi agents . <p> Asked whether he believed the crown prince had ordered Khashoggi 's murder , President Donald Trump said last month , " Maybe he did and maybe he did n't . " While the president condemned the violence against journalists , the committee noted that he has called them " enemies of the people . " <p> In addition to retaliation killings , journalists have died in combat or crossfire , or on other dangerous assignments . The deadliest country for journalists this year has been Afghanistan , where 13 journalists were killed , some in back-to-back blasts staged by suicide bombers and claimed by the militant group Islamic State , according to the report . <p> Media freedom group Reporters Without Borders said Tuesday that the U.S. made it into the top five deadliest countries for journalists this year for the first time , with six dying , including four who were among five people killed by a gunman who opened fire in the offices of Maryland newspaper Capital Gazette on June 28 . The shooting was the deadliest single attack on the media in recent U.S. history . A sales associate was also killed . The man had threatened the newspaper after losing a defamation lawsuit . Another two died while covering extreme weather . <p> In addition , the committee said the imprisonment of journalists has been on the rise . <p> " The context for the crisis is varied and complex , and closely tied to changes in technology that have allowed more people to practice journalism even as it has made journalists expendable to the political and criminal groups who once needed the news media to spread their message , " the committee said in its report . <p> Time magazine last week recognized jailed and killed journalists as its " person of the year , " including Khashoggi , Maria Ressa imprisoned in the Philippines , Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo imprisoned in Myanmar , and staff at the Capital Gazette . <p> Journalists also have died this year in Slovakia , where 27-year-old investigative reporter Jan Kuciak was fatally shot while probing alleged corruption , and in Malta , where Daphne Caruana Galizia , on a similar mission , was killed by a bomb placed in her car . At least four journalists were murdered in Mexico , two in Brazil , and two Palestinian journalists were shot and killed by Israeli soldiers during protests in the Gaza Strip , according to the report . <p> In Syria and Yemen , two of the worst civil-war decimated countries , the fewest journalists were killed since 2011 . Three died in Yemen , and in Syria , the committee recorded nine deaths compared to a high of 31 in 2012 . However , the drop may be due to limited access or extreme risks that discourage media visits , the committee said . 
@@51708777 <h> In pictures : Muslims celebrate Eid-ul-Fitr amid coronavirus lockdown <p> Kashmiri Muslims pray in the garden of a house while celebrating Eid al-Fitr , the Muslim festival marking the end of the holy fasting month of Ramadan , amid the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak in Kashmir May 24 , 2020 Reuters <p> Palestinians perform Eid al-Fitr prayers marking the end of the holy fasting month of Ramadan , amid concerns about the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , in a mosque in the northern Gaza Strip May 24 , 2020 Reuters <p> Indonesian Muslims men take part in prayers during Eid al-Fitr , the Muslim festival marking the end the holy fasting month of Ramadan , at a mosque in Palu , Central Sulawesi Province , Indonesia , amid the spread of coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , May 24 , 2020 Reuters <p> This picture taken early on May 24 , 2020 shows worshippers gathering before the Kaaba at the Grand Mosque in Saudi Arabia 's holy city of Mecca to attend the prayers of Eid al-Fitr , the Muslim holiday which starts at the conclusion of the holy fasting month of Ramadan . AFP <p> Indonesian Muslims ride a motorbike to attend mass prayers to celebrate Eid al-Fitr , the Muslim festival marking the end the holy fasting month of Ramadan , amid the spread of coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak in Bekasi , on the outskirts of Jakarta , Indonesia , May 24 , 2020 Reuters <p> A health worker ( R ) checks the body temperature of a Muslim devotee as a preventive measure against the COVID-19 coronavirus at the start of the Eid al-Fitr festival which marks the end of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan at Wazir Akbar Khan mosque in Kabul on May 24 , 2020 AFP <p> Afghan men take part in prayers during Eid al-Fitr , the Muslim festival marking the end the holy fasting month of Ramadan , at a mosque amid the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , in Kabul , Afghanistan May 24 , 2020 Reuters <p> Pakistani Muslims attend Eid al-Fitr prayers to mark the end of the holy fasting month of Ramadan , amid the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak in Peshawar , Pakistan May 24 , 2020 Reuters <p> Indonesian Muslims take part in prayers during Eid al-Fitr , the Muslim festival marking the end the holy fasting month of Ramadan , at a boarding house in Jakarta , Indonesia , amid the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak May 24 , 2020 Reuters <p> Egyptians perform Eid al-Fitr prayers , marking the end of the holy fasting month of Ramadan , on the roof of thier house , after mosques were shut amid concerns about the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , in Cairo , Egypt , May 24 , 2020 Reuters <p> Muslims celebrate Eid al-Fitr , the Muslim festival marking the end of the holy fasting month of Ramadan , at the Thai Islamic Center amid the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) outbreak in Bangkok , Thailand , May 24 , 2020 Reuters <p> The majority of Muslims are celebrating Eid-ul-Fitr on Sunday , the religious holiday that comes at the end of the holy month of Ramadan . However , due to the coronavirus pandemic , Muslims have been urged to keep a distance from others this Eid. 
