@@31812862 <h> Glaringly obvious but ignored purpose of Israeli settlements <p> On 20 April , Netanyahu and his political rival , Benny Gantz , reached an agreement to annex parts of the West Bank , including illegal settlements , that paves the way for a unity government , following months of election stalemate in Israel . On 22 April , the US Secretary of State , Mike Pompeo , declaring that the matter is not something for Washington to interfere with , commented further at a press conference : " That 's an Israeli decision , but we 'll work closely with them to share our views of this in a private setting . " The Zionist ideology 's influence on US foreign policy is absolute . Since Israel'screation in 1948 , Washington has providedthe Zionist state with aroundUS$142.3 billion in direct aid . Right now , Israel is receivingUS$3.8 billion per annum , not only guaranteed for ten years butalsosupplementedby tax concessions and other giveaways . A large amount of this aid goes in support of Israel 's illegalsettlements on Palestinianland . No other country in the world has ever received anything like such beneficencefrom the US taxpayer . <h> What should be obvious <p> What else did world leaders believe the ultimate purpose of Israeli settlements in the Occupied Palestinian West Bank to be , other than annexation ? The implacably ruthless territorial ambition of the Zionist enterprise has , throughout its history , been its essential identifier . From the outset , the claim that Jews have a ' right ' to Palestine lackedboth credibility and justification . At the end of the nineteenth century , the Zionist movement sought , and stillstrive , to reverse the reality of close on 2000years of migration and religious evolution . <p> Even after the Jewish immigration that followed the Balfour Declaration and later , the Nazi Holocaust , British Mandate statistics of 1947 recorded the total Jewish population as just under 33% , with only two of the 16 sub-districts having a Jewish majority ( seePalestinian Jewish population , as of 1947 per district , prepared by the British Mandate to the United Nations ) . Although , in public , Zionists hold the UN Partition Plan as a justification for what they have done in Palestine , they never actually saw it as anythingother than a stepping-stone to their true objective.The Zionists want the world to believe that it was Israel that was attacked following its May 1948 Declaration of Independence butthe truth is , that in November 1947 , theywere already on the attackand had driven 300,000 Palestinians into exile . In the months before Israel was etablished , the Zionists had seized land beyond the proposed Jewish State . In May 1948 , withextreme terrorism , Zionist forces had already seized areas beyond that afforded in the UN Partition Plan and today Israeleven claims Jerusalem as its ' undivided capital ' . The ugly reality is undeniable , the Zionist State of Israel was created , and continues to grow , at the expense of the indigenous population of Palestine . <p> The Zionist mind <p> The US-based campaign for Palestinian human rights , Jewish Voice for Peace , has published a letter written by ( later to become Israel 's first Prime Minister ) David Ben-Gurion to his son . Written on 5 October 1937 , itcan be seen in full on the Jewish Voice for Peace website . The missive , written in Hebrew , was translated into English by the Institute of Palestine Studies , Beirut . Zionism 's cold self-obsession is clear in the advice Ben-Gurion gives his son : <h> " The only thing that should be taken into account is what we want and what is best for us , what will lead to the objective . " <h> That the ideology saw Partition of Palestine as nothing other than a stepping-stone to its true objective is borne out in the following extract : <h> " Of course the partition of the country gives me no pleasure . But in this proposed partition we will get more than what we already have , though of course much less than we merit and desire . " <p> Because he and his fellow Zionists already regarded the land as ' our ' country that desire is clearly and undeniably expressed further on : <p> " What we really want is not that the land remain whole and unified . What we want is that the whole and unified land be Jewish . " <p> The Zionist strategy was , and remains , to gradually expand across Palestine , step by incremental step and he sets it out thus : <p> " My assumption ( which is why I am a fervent proponent of a state , even though it is now linked to partition ) is that a Jewish state on only part of the land is not the end but the beginning . " <p> Ben-Gurion repeatedly returns to the championing of this Zionist strategy : <p> " The establishment of a state , even if only on a portion of the land , is the maximal reinforcement of our strength at the present time and a powerful boost to our historical endeavours to liberate the entire country . " <p> Here , Zionism 's inherent racism leaps clearly into view when he describes the seizure of Palestine from its indigenous population as liberation ! Ben-Gurion anticipated his ideology 's merciless future employment of terrorism which would , eventually lay the foundation for what he called " a superior army " . In turn , this army proved to be nothing more than a uniformed form of terrorism . He expressed this as follows : <p> " We shall organise an advanced defence force -- a superior army which I have no doubt will be one of the best armies in the world . At that point I am confident that we would not fail in settling in the remaining parts of the country , through agreement and understanding with our Arab neighbours , or through some other means . " <p> The " agreement and understanding " , here envisaged byIsrael 's first Prime Minister , was to be achieved through racist violence : <p> " The greater the Jewish strength in the country , the more the Arabs will realise that it is neither beneficial nor possible for them to withstand us . " <p> European Zionism was born in a time of imperialism and assumed superiority of race . The ideology absorbed this view of an imposed world order that is affirmed so clearly here by Ben-Gurion : <p> " Palestine is grossly under populated . It contains vast colonisation potential which the Arabs neither need nor are qualified ( because of their lack of need ) to exploit . " <p> Military Occupation and population control <p> The Israeli Occupation , the annexation Wall it has constructed along and within the West Bank , together with its land , sea and air blockades in the Gaza Strip , have placed severe limitations on the Palestinian economy . The baffling web of checkpoints and sudden roadblocks restrict Palestinian movement with crippling effect on the economy . Farmers find their land trapped behind the annexation Wall and must seek so-called ' visitor permits ' which , predictably , Israel regularly rejects . <p> So far this year , up to and including 27 April , there have been over 500 Israeli Gaza ceasefire violations , with almost 60 retaliatory Palestinian responses . From 14-27 April inclusive , 49 Israeli Gaza ceasefire violations ( including four incursions ) failed to provoke any Palestinian response . Over the same 14 days , Israeli Occupation settlers in the West Bank invaded four Palestinian olive groves and destroyed at least 140 trees . Israeli settlers also assaulted and beat up several Palestinian pastoralists , attackedand hospitaliseda Palestinian refugee and , after invading farmland , terrorised Palestinian farmers and forced them away from it.The same thing also occurredelsewhere with directIsraeli Army complicity . <p> After an armed settler had terrorised Palestinian COVID-19 control staff , Israeli police closed a Palestinian Coronavirus testing clinic and Israeli forces assaulted Palestinian Covid-19 emergency workers . Israeli soldiers also shot and wounded a 15-year-old boy , seized and terrorisedtwoother children , stole afarmer 's tractor to stop him ploughing his land , beat up and hospitalised a Palestinian villager and ordered thedestruction of Palestinian farm buildings , as well asthree wells used for irrigation . <p> Historic Palestine Solidarity Campaign victory in support of BDS <p> The world is by no means helpless when it comes to challenging the complicity with Israel demonstrated by some Western Powers . On 28 April , in the UK , the Palestine Solidarity Campaign(PSC) was delighted to announce a great victory in defence of the right of people in the UK to support Palestinian human rights . For years , the Zionist regimeand its allies have been battling to delegitimise Palestinian rights activism andcriminalise the Boycott Divestment and Sanctions ( BDS ) movement . This significant legal victory over the Westminster government has been achieved with support , not only from the Quakers , Campaign Against Arms Trade and War on Want but also via small donations from thousands of individual supporters . In short , The Supreme Court ruled that the UK Government 's current ban on ethical pensions divestment is unlawful . <p> Zionism could never have achieved its goal without the support of powerful allies , able to dictate global foreign policy . The denial of the Palestinian right to self-determination following the Allied World War One victory has led to more than a century of mounting injustice and human misery . The UN Partition Plan opened the door for Zionism but Palestinian rights were curtailed and have all but been dispensed with . The conditions of life that Palestinians must endlessly endure have been brought about deliberately ; the inevitable price of achieving the goals of an anachronistic , racist ideology . The splitting apart of Palestine has now rendered the deceptive two-state ' solution ' clearly and indisputably impossible , unjust and inhumane . <p> There is a growing worldwide call for a single-state solution , with equal rights for all . The history of indigenous Palestinians goes back long before the invention of Zionism and today , in Israel , there are human rights movements such as Zochrot that support the crucial right of Palestinian refugees to return from exile . The movement joins with others who call for an end to Zionist contempt for Palestinians . Justice for Palestinians in this context means justice for all , one that would enable the unfolding of a future of mutual respect between all who live in that land . <p> This vision of unity has led to the historic Palestine Solidarity Campaign High Court victory in Britain . The case was based on reason , justice and respect for the whole of humanity . It can be done -- the miracle will happen ! <p> Leslie Bravery is a Londoner with vivid World War Two memories of the Nazi blitz on his home town . In 1947/1948 His father explained to him what was happening to the Palestinians thus : " Any ideology or political movement that creates refugees in the process of realising its ambitions must be inhuman and should be opposed and condemned as unacceptable . " What followed confirmed this assessment of the Zionist entity a hundredfold . Now a retired flamenco guitarist , with a lifelong interest in the tragedy of what happened to the Palestinian people , he tries to publicise their plight . Because the daily injustices they suffer barely get a mention in the mainstream news media , Leslie edits/compiles a daily newsletter , In Occupied Palestine , for the Palestine Human Rights Campaign . These days , to preserve his sanity , he enjoys taking part in a drama group whenever possible ! <h> 1 COMMENT <p> If Trump departs in November so will the fatuous Kushner . Will Biden be any better ? It would be as well to know ahead of time . Fundamentalist Christianists and Jews -- a dangerous combination for so many . <h> STAY CONNECTED <p> Launched on Friday 1 March , 2013 , the ' TheDailyBlog.co.nz ' unites New Zealand 's leading left/centre-left commentators and progressive opinion shapers to provide the other side of the story on today 's news , media and political agendas. 
@@31813143 <h> Denis Goldberg -- fighting apartheid in South Africa and Israel -- lessons from the front line <p> Last week the world lost one of the heroes of the South African anti-apartheid struggle when 87-year-old Denis Goldberg died . <p> I first became aware of Denis as a white face on a poster of South African political prisoners back in the 1970s ( see poster ) <p> He was sentenced to life in prison in 1964 at the end of the infamous Rivonia trial of activists accused of planning armed struggle to end white rule in apartheid South Africa . Denis was Defendant No 3 ( Nelson Mandela was No 1 and Walter Sisulu No 2 ) <p> Denis is being remembered for his " unflinching commitment to the struggle against all forms of racism and Apartheid " . <p> In his later years he was very critical of the ANC and in a 2016 interview said " the members of the ANC need to renew the leadership from top to bottom " . Never a truer word said . <p> We must also remember what this courageous Jewish South African said about the brutal , racist state of Israel : <p> " Having lived through apartheid in South Africa . There 's no doubt in my mind that Israel is an apartheid state . I can not allow in my name , the same kind of oppression to go on against the Palestinians . I have to speak out against it . And I have to try and speak out against it in a rational and calm voice when really I 'm very angry about it ... when Israeli people say , well , you South Africans , you 're biased against us . We 're not . We 're talking international law ... The pro-Israeli lobby , the SA Jewish Board of Deputies and SA Zionist Federation try to say that it the Palestinian Israeli issue is not a simple matter , they say that it 's complicated . It 's not complicated ! It 's very simple , the simplicity is that a dominant group Jewish Israelis exclude the indigenous Palestinian people from equal rights " . <p> Honouring the anti-apartehd struggle in South Africa also means being active in the struggle against apartheid in Israel where Palestinians face the same race-hatred and oppression from Israeli authorities that black South Africans faced from the white regime . <h> 4 COMMENTS <p> 10 Reasons Israel Is Not An ' Apartheid ' State here are 10 reasons why Israel is not an " apartheid " state : <p> 1 . All people living in Israel have full equal rights . <p> There are no inferior or second-class citizens , unlike non-whites in South Africa or minorities in Islamic or Arab countries . Moreover , Arabs occupy senior positions on the Israeli police force , the Knesset and the Israeli judiciary . For example , Salim Joubran , who currently serves on the Israeli Supreme Court , is a Christian Arab . South Africans living under apartheid could only dream of obtaining these types of positions . <p> Ishmael Khaldi , an Islamic Bedouin , is currently a diplomat in the Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs . Majalli Wahabi ( Druze ) was the acting president of Israel in 2007 . These are just a few examples out of the many minority groups holding prominent positions in Israeli society . <p> 2 . An Arab judge , George Karra , sentenced an ex-Israeli president Moshe Katsav to prison for seven years . <p> When an Arab judge sentences a former Israeli president to jail -- this is truly a testament to Israel 's equality amongst all citizens , regardless of race or ethnicity . <p> 3 . In 1953 , the Bantu Education Act was passed . <p> This separated blacks from whites in the South African educational system . The government created a new curriculum for black people in which they were taught skills related to manual labour and serving in their Bantustans . In Israel , citizens are given equal opportunity in the workplace and educational department as evidenced by the fact that there are Palestinians and Arabs in Israeli universities who both study and teach as professors . <p> Today in Israel there are hundreds of Arab schools . Furthermore , education in the Palestinian areas of the West Bank is controlled by the Palestinian Authority . Courts , laws , taxes , police etc. are also under PA jurisdiction in the majority of the West Bank . <p> 4 . Incitement to racism is a criminal offence in Israel . <p> This is the polar opposite of apartheid in South Africa , whose government specifically passed incendiary racist legislation . <p> 5 . Arabs and Israelis receive the same treatment in hospitals . <p> The Hadassah Medical Organization which operates two hospitals in Jerusalem , was nominated for a Nobel Peace Prize due to its push for peace in the Middle East and its equal treatment of Palestinians and Israelis . Furthermore , Arab and Israeli children are born amongst each other in the same hospitals . <p> These include hospitals , beaches , buses , restrooms , drinking fountains and even designated park benches to sit on . None of this discrimination is prevalent in Israel and a law prohibits discrimination in public places . <p> 7 . Israeli Arabs have their own political parties in the Knesset -- some of whom are Israel 's harshest critics . <p> The Joint List is an example of this . They received 13 seats in the 2015 Israeli election . Furthermore Arabs have equal voting rights , whereas coloured people during apartheid were not allowed to participate in the political process . <p> 8 . Arab citizens are allowed to seek redress through the courts and government if they feel they have been wronged . <p> Arab citizens also receive trial based on the facts , not ethnicity . This is nothing compared to apartheid South Africa , where discrimination was authorized from the highest position in the government . <p> 9 . Arabs in Israel have more fundamental rights than other Islamic and Arab countries in the Middle East . <p> Ironically , they have more rights than they do in the Gaza Strip or the West Bank . <p> 10 . In Israel , there are 1.6 million Arab citizens integrated within Israeli society . <p> They make up 20 per cent of Israel 's population . There was no such integration in South Africa . Furthermore , according to a poll done by Harvard University , 77 per cent of Arab citizens living in Israel would rather live there than any other country in the world . If these citizens were experiencing " apartheid , " why are so many of them supportive of Israel ? <p> To proclaim that Israel is an " apartheid state " is to undermine and trivialize the harsh and actual struggles many blacks went through during that dark time of human history . These are the words ofmanySouth Africans who would also concur that Israel is not an " apartheid " state . <p> Arabs have the right to move freely , vote , obtain an education , work in prominent positions , receive world-class health care , own land and speak freely . Blacks in South Africa had none of these rights . <p> Regardless of the unfounded criticisms , Israel will still strive in the face of growing adversity . Those who seek to delegitimize , malign and deprecate Israel have lost their moral compass . <p> While those who are able to discern the truth for themselves , are able to recognize the fact that Israel is a beacon of freedom and democracy in the Middle East . <p> Please do not post inconvenient facts Tomer , it upsets the one sided anti-Israel rhetoric Minto/Griffiths/Bravery post on here .... shame on you ! One you missed , but hinted about , how many Jews are serving in the parliaments/public service of countries neighbouring Israel ? <p> When one group of people , Jewish settlers illegally occupying Palestinian land are allowed to vote in elections in Israel , but Palestinian citizens living on the same land have no voting rights at all , let alone in Israeli elections , that 's apartheid pure and simple . <p> Either you have a two state solution divided along the 1967 Green Line with one state for Jews and a separate independent state in the West Bank for Palestinians , or you have a single state solution " from the river to the sea " , where all citizens , regardless of whether they are Jewish or Palestinian , each have a single vote . Anything else , including the status quo , is apartheid . Glad to have cleared that up for you . <p> Thanks for this article John . Yes , apartheid in South Africa was a cruel regime . <p> Yet South Africans are aghast at the treatment of Palestinians not just those in Gaza , who are under a death sentence what with unsafe drinking water , health clinics bombed , now Covid-19 .. but those in the West Bank , in East Jerusalem and those in ' non-occupied ' Israel . If someone really wants to find out the truth , there are many sources , including from within Israel itself . There is award-winning journalist Jonathan Cook , based in Nazareth who has his own website , there is Defence of Children International .. the treatment of Palestinian children is appalling .. Israel is the only country in the world that sentences children , Palestinian children that is , in military courts . There is B'tselem an Israeli human rights NGO . There are articles and books by Gideon Levy , Ilan Papp ? , Ramzy Baroud , Raja Shehadeh and others . <p> May 15 is an important day for the Palestinian people , Nakba Day .. not just a day to remember what happened in 1948 but how the cruelty and oppression continues to this day . The open violence of ' settlers ' and the IDF is increasing while the world is distracted by Covid-19 . Israel tries to any suppress any acknowledgment of Nakba Day . <p> May 31 is an important day too . On 31 May 2010 , the Mavi Marmara , the lead ship of a Freedom Flotilla , with international crew and passengers carrying relief supplies to Gaza , was violently attacked by the Israelis in international waters .. 9 were murdered outright , many were wounded . One NZer was aboard . She was standing near a Turkish photography who was shot in his head . <p> There is so much more to say . The Israeli regime knows that whatever it does , the West will continue to look the other way . Western leaders , political , religious , media .. are all afraid to speak out . It 's safer to look the other way . The only hope for Palestinian people will come from civil humanitarian society , including American groups Code Pink , Catholic Workers , Jews for Justice for Palestine .. including Freedom Flotilla participants . <h> STAY CONNECTED <p> Launched on Friday 1 March , 2013 , the ' TheDailyBlog.co.nz ' unites New Zealand 's leading left/centre-left commentators and progressive opinion shapers to provide the other side of the story on today 's news , media and political agendas. 
@@31821204 <h> NZs ' Mr Israel ' to set up far right Christian Party to put National into power -- our own Handmaid 's Tale moment <p> The horror of what Alabama has pulled off by effectively banning abortions is their ' Handmaid 's tale moment ' , NZs ' Mr Israel ' setting up a far right Christian Party is to prop up National is going to be ours . <p> Sure Colin Craig had some HR issues about inappropriate relationships with his press secretary , but his policy line up was actually socially benign and economically developmental with a huge side salad of charity . <p> The same can not be said of the toxic cocktail that Alfred Ngaro is cooking up . <p> A far right hell fire Christian Party propped up with conservative church money and Israeli donations so that National can take back the Government is probably the worst possible outcome for anyone with a basic education . <p> God knows what the science and history curriculums would be changed to appease the new God Squad . <p> If this gets off the ground , it will be our Handmaidens Tale moment , we should collectively choke on this hideous political equation . <h> 22 COMMENTS <p> I would n't worry about him ( ngaro ) that national lot are getting more desperate by the day they are putting their feelers out to see what people think . We already have enough of these arrogant condescending people the ones with lots of money that think they know best . <p> I think he 's a little jerk of an electrician who came to this country , then did some sort of theology course ( ha ha ) and became a pastor with expensive designer haircuts . Oh boy . I 'm told that every Fijian in NZ has a relative who 's a chief or a pastor too . The Samoan community also does well in the pastoring stakes -- it 's a great purse opener . <p> Will he become a bishop too like Brian Whatshisname ? <p> Do we want an ambassador for Zionism in the NZ Parliament ? No , this expensively clad person looks like he may be using us for another agenda , and pig ignorant of the environmental issues , namely scarcity of water , behind the bullying of Palestinians on the West Bank and Gaza strip , but I doubt he cares , because like many religious zealots he seems to have tunnel vision , and if he thinks that Jesus the Galilean would toe his middle east philosophical line , then he is doing Christianity a great disservice . <p> Yes Michelle , Ngaro has done jolly well out NZ 's kindness to others , but if he thinks that the OT wants everyone returned to their homelands , then it seems to me that he should think about returning to his . Neaten the whole world up , biblically . <p> Jesus ! ( No pun intended . ) What next ? Blue aliens transcending the heavens to bring forth a plague of re insurners upon the earth ? ? ? Who is this idiot anway ? I 've never heard of the moron ? If you take this schmuck seriously ? You get all that you deserve . Now , I 'm going to bed ... <p> " Associate Minister of Social Housing Alfred Ngaro told the National Party 's Auckland Conference on the weekend there could be financial consequences for the Manukau Urban Maori Authority if Mr Jackson bagged the government on the campaign trail . " <p> Mr English told Morning Report Mr Ngaro 's comments were off the cuff . <p> Yeah Ngaro is the perfect choice too head a puppet christian party to prop up a future National led government . <p> This Ngaro chappie who apparently supports Israel sending missiles over into Palestinians ' homes and smashing them to bits , is astute enough to realise that the collateral damage of inflicting violent bloody deaths on small and beautiful children means that next time the Palestinians rebuild , they 'll need fewer sleeping areas and smaller houses , and hey -- they 'll save money . Repeat . Repeat . Repeat . <p> An obvious man to have been the Nat 's Assoc Minister of Housing -- he has nose-tapping insider-knowledge perspectives about housing . <p> You see Mosa , if you or I -- alone or together -- wanted to buy a house in Alfie 's Cook Islands , we can not , unless we have owned a business there for at least three years . If we wanted to retire there , then I think we have to have a pot or two of money . <p> But , if Ngaro 's compatriots come to NZ , they may buy homes here , and we try to provide them with social housing too , so of course Alfie has an interest in housing because if he can get people into houses , then they 'll support him for his heroic use of his -- I mean- taxpayers ' - money in their interests . <p> The remnants of NZ social policy which do still try to house the poor and needy , may confer a needed stature on Ngaro , and that 's called collatoral benefit , which helps balance out the bloody excesses of the exodus of Palestinians from their homes , and from their lives in the Holy Land , or from life on planet earth altogether , which is over-populated anyway , is it not ? <p> But if Alfie can get people into houses , then they can get jobs with eg the illustrious MSD , and may benefit from reverse discrimination policies which help to promote them , and get them up the money-earning ladder , and if they attend churches which tithe , then the spiritual benefits may be the stuff of dreams . <p> Maybe you 're too clean , Cleangreen . Maybe a fiendish conspiracy -- conspiracy theorists are absolutely everywhere -- to send those of us mulling our loyalty to Labour and the Greens- racing off to the polling booths to avert the possibility of the country being run by Israel Fonau clones . Maybe a kiss of life for Labour and the Greens and Winston too . <p> Seriously , a party led by a so-called pastor supporting the hell on earth which is life for so many Christians and Muslims in Palestine , is a serious and multi-faceted matter . <p> If Ngaro ever tries to weasel his way through the Paua-Shell Gates , the second thing God may be saying to him is , " What you did to the least of my brethren , you did unto me . " <p> Surely this is going to be the kiss of death for National ? To be associated with such Trumpian Alabama backwardness . I ca n't imagine National gifting this idiot a seat . I think they 'll go the Blue/faux Green route <p> I think you are wrong there and under estimate the number of peoole waiting for the rapture as well as the buckets of money available to this kind of party . I live next door to sime Christian Zionists . On the face of it ordinary people but the more things happen that they say are in the bible the more they believe so you know , a wee move of the embassy and theres another chunk of rapture folk who do nt want to burn in hell and then recognise the Golan heights as Israeli and you get another chunk and do nt forget the requirement of endless wars against the unbelievers thats Boltons speciality . People diss the internet but at least there if you look you can find the truth unlike at church if your pastor is one of the rapture folk . You can laugh at this pompous idiot but with the right amount of money he could pull in a lot of people . One Christian Zionist says that he can bring along almost all conservative Christians just because of what is written in the bible . Pastor John Hagee says " If a Christian admits ' I believe the Bible , ' I can make him a pro-Israel supporter or they will have to denounce their faith . So I have the Christians over a barrel , you might say . " " The original seems to be unavailable at the moment but try here <p> Turn it up Martyn . Trying to equate a 1980s work of fiction to New Zealand politics is just hysterical . The same goes for trying to apply state politics to NZ . Are you threatened by the fact that he would attract a block of votes that your side will never reach ? <p> Time was the Greens were regarded as nutters , and now much of their policy is globally mainstream , albeit a little late for beautiful planet earth . <p> Now all the nutters flock to the Nats who have a criminally negligent attitude towards planet earth because they 're aiming even higher , and they think they 're going right up to heaven . <p> Those stars twinkling in the night sky are the windows of heaven 's picket-fenced houses did you know , full of politicians gazing down as they munch and belch on their Hell 's Pizzas . <p> Oops -- wrong place -- but what the hell ? <p> Bet you do n't know what black holes are for either -- but it 's all in the OT , the Gospel of Thomas , the poetry of Milton , the symbols in Whistler 's Portrait of his mother , and Aunt Daisy 's Brains and Bacon recipe . <p> Time was the Greens were regarded as nutters , and now much of their policy is globally mainstream , albeit a little late for beautiful planet earth . <p> Now all the nutters flock to the Nats who have a criminally negligent attitude towards planet earth because they 're aiming even higher , and they think they 're going right up to heaven . <p> Those stars twinkling in the night sky are the windows of heaven 's picket-fenced houses did you know , full of politicians gazing down as they munch and belch on their Hell 's Pizzas . <p> Oops -- wrong place -- but what the hell ? <p> Bet you do n't know what black holes are for either -- but it 's all in the OT , the Gospel of Thomas , the poetry of Milton , the symbols in Whistler 's Portrait of his mother , and Aunt Daisy 's Brains and Bacon recipe . <p> When a person needs some appointed " religious " spokes person to tell them what is right from wrong and how to think , then you are looking at a shell of a person who has no values but does as he / she is told . <p> A sorry excuse for and adult . Many kids can do much better . <p> A loud mouth pontificating about right to life and yet says or does nothing effective denouncing war , slaughter of millions of innocent families . <p> A charlatan who does not deserve any respect . <p> Putting woman under pressure not to abort when he would not have a clue about circumstances nor the consequences involved for the woman nor the child or those supporting them . <p> A low life uncaring bigot hiding behind a narrow religious dogma which emanates hate on those who do n't conform . <h> STAY CONNECTED <p> Launched on Friday 1 March , 2013 , the ' TheDailyBlog.co.nz ' unites New Zealand 's leading left/centre-left commentators and progressive opinion shapers to provide the other side of the story on today 's news , media and political agendas. 
@@31828740 <h> Join the online protest rally with Gaza for Nakba Day <p> Media representatives are invited to the Palestine Solidarity Network Aotearoa 's second online rally with Gaza this Sunday evening at 7.00pm NZ time . <p> We will be hearing from Palestinian medical professionals , community activists and journalists about the huge threat Covid 19 poses to the people of Palestine -- and Gaza in particular -- and what we can do about it . <p> It 's nothing short of a miracle that Palestinians have been able to keep Govid 19 from spreading in the Gaza community until now . <p> We will be asking the speakers from Palestine what New Zealand can do to help end the Israeli blockade of Gaza so Palestinians can bring in the medical supplies , equipment and personnel they need to deal with the looming human catastrophe of Covid 19 spreading in this densely populated area with run down medical services . <p> Sabreen Annajjar : Mother of Razan Al-Najjar . Razan ( pictured below ) was the 21-year-old female paramedic killed by an Israeli sniper in the March of Return in 2018 -- Wafa will translate Sabreen 's words . <p> Raed Shakshak : representing young Palestinians in the group WANN ( We Are Not Numbers ) <p> We hope New Zealand media representatives will take part . Palestinian voices are rarely reported through our media and they desperately need countries like New Zealand to take notice at this time of Covid 19 and the Israeli threat to annex vast swathes of Palestinian land . <h> 3 COMMENTS <p> Thank you . ' Lest we Remember " ... The Nakbar annihilated Palestine . Walking all over the ' Promise ' of Balfour ... it being clearly understood that nothing shall be done which may prejudice the civil and religious rights of existing non-Jewish communities in Palestine .... " By Way of Deception Thou Shalt Wage War " , cited as mossad motto , now clearly applies to ' the next ' great deception of our time. , that of the ' Russian Collusion Hoax " being a disinformation program beat up to cover the real 2016 ' election influence operation ' on-going behind the smoke and thermitic laced DUST of ' **27;247;TOOLONG ... https : //www.ju ... This makes one wonder just what could be behind the ' **36;276;TOOLONG ad infinitum ' pivot to asia ' media stenography without ever mentioning Fort Detrick 's strange lung disease outbreak Sept.Oct last year ( RedFields admittance of ' misdiagnosed coronavirus deaths ' ) , The Military Games in Wuhan about the same time , Fauci 's CDC millions into joint experimentation in the Wuhan Labs and Dr. Charles LIEBER 's arrest ) and how those might play into ' something going on by-way-of-deception ' ) <h> STAY CONNECTED <p> Launched on Friday 1 March , 2013 , the ' TheDailyBlog.co.nz ' unites New Zealand 's leading left/centre-left commentators and progressive opinion shapers to provide the other side of the story on today 's news , media and political agendas. 
@@31830320 <p> Level Two will be life Jim , but not as weve known it . At 4pm today , PM Jacinda Ardern will announce the Cabinet decision on when the shift out of Level Three will occur , along with presumably a bit of finessing as to what its final details ... <p> Level Two will be life Jim , but not as we 've known it . At 4pm today , PM Jacinda Ardern will announce the Cabinet decision on when the shift out of Level Three will occur , along with -- presumably -- a bit of finessing as to what its final details will look like . Come Thursday , the Budget will also clarify what income safety nets New Zealand can continue to afford after economic reality -- aka as " the worst recession since the Great Depression of the 1930s " -- has fully kicked in , come July . Until then , many of us will still be living on the borrowed time provided via the wage subsidy scheme . Presumably , the Budget will indicate what if anytbing , will replace it . <p> Well into 2021 , the role of the government in stimulating economic activity and upporting people 's incomes can hardly be overstated . No doubt , this week 's re-opening of firms will be welcomed by many -- obviously , any activity is better than none at all . Yet the openings will also be a bit irrelevant , given that demand is almost certain to remain a mere shadiow of its former self . Partly because people are sill justifiably scared about the virus , or are fearful for their jobs and incomes . Any bounce in retail sales at Level Two is unlikely to last for long . <p> Hopefully .... as the scale of this new economic reality begins to emerge , politicicans will need to lift their game accordingly . Meaning : this is a national crisis , and not something that could have been avoided by a bit of tinkering with the fine print of how and when we emerged from Level Three . About 195 million jobs worldwide will be destroyed by Covid-19 , according to the UN . Among other things , that means consumers in other countries are going to struggle to pay for our exports . <p> Given this inevitable suppression of demand , the job losses , losses , the reductions in business turnover and the decline in tax revenues available to government , you can bet we wo n't be returning to " normality " anytime soon . Whole sectors of international trade have been wiped out . So ... the recent spasm of blaming central government over the fine print of its lockdown rules ( or quibbling about the legal rationale for how the Level Four ckdown was enforced ) seems beside the point . Judging by National 's poll numbers , the public is feeling in no mood to be distracted by any attempts at scapegoating . . <p> To repeat : the Covid-19 economic crisis was never going to be avoidable if only we 'd copied this or that lockdown rule adopted in Australia -- which BTW , is currently doing it just as tough as we are . Across the Tasman , the nuances about what firms can stay open seems to have made not a jot of difference to the economic damage the virus has inflicted . As economist Shamabeel Yacub told RNZ this morning , their likely job loss figures are looking even worse than ours . comparatively . Our estimated nearly 40,000 job losses , Yacub said , " Arenot as bad as they 've had it over in Australia , despite less retrictive movement . " <p> So much then for the centre-right criticisms that we should have acted more like the Australians , or that much of the economic pain being felt here is due to our allegedly " overly conservative " managemernt of the Covid-19 crisis . Being open is virtually irrelevant in the context of such a major slump in demand . In an additional blow on the demand front , many people are likely to have adopted cost-saving practices under lockdown , such that old habits ( like socialising in cafes over coffee etc ) may not resume , overnight -- if ever- on previous levels . <p> To date , National has offered no insights into how New Zealand can cope with the crash in demand that we are now beginning to experience . Budget Day will reveal what the government has in mind . <h> Bringing It All Back Home <p> So .... the big difference at Level Two will not be about swhich firms can now open , and which ones can not in case the virus regains a foothold . The main difference at Level Two will be that more of us will be congregating inside -- in closer promimity for longer periods -- at work , and on various forms of public transport . We all need information on how to minimise the threat this change in behaviour will entail <p> Amid the avalanche of material available online , this article very clearly and calmly states what we currently know about how the virus is transmitted indoors . Erin Bromage usefully cites the levels of potentially infectious viral particles expelled by coughing , sneezing , talking and breathing . The equation comes down to this : infection = exposure x time . <p> Obviously , any infection caught in public spaces will be brought back home , so -- again -- this underlines the need for cleaning , and regular surface wiping as well as effective hand sanittation . Especially , as Bromage indicates , in the home bathroom , toilet and on doorknobs etc. where regular and daily disinfecting routines need to be in place . Regular handwashing is just one part of that process . <p> Given that a few of us will be able to afford to head back into cafes and restaurants at Level Two , Bromage also offers some useful information about how to avoid transmission via proximity across a table or downwind from an asymptomatic infected person , over the average 1.5 hour duration of a meal . As Australia 's chief medical officer Professor Brebndon Murphy said yesterday , staff and managers in restaurants will have to become pro-active in refusing service to customers who may be showing Covid-19 symptoms . Apparently , one sneeze can expel enough droplets containing the virus sufficient to contaminate an entire room . <p> As yet , no country in the world has yet figured out to how safely re -- open public transport . If an infection outbreak does occur , it can take a fortnight or so before the evidence becomes apparent in the community and this time lag -- again -- underlines the need for rapid testing and tracing as soon as synptoms become apparent . Clearly , if people are moving through a number of public spaces , the difficulty of effective contact tracing will increase . Again , the duration of exposure is a crucial element in determining whether proximity results in infection . <p> This raises a perennial issue . Some countries that have successfully managed the virus have advocated ( or required ) the wearing of non-medical masks in public spaces but -- for increasingly unconvincing reasons -- our MoH has remained agnostic about the value of doing so . That 's despite the advice from Otago Medical School epidemiologist professor Michael Baker ( and the evidence from Taiwan and South Korea ) that the wearing of non-medical masks can play a preventative role , especially in the crowded envoronments ( eg bus , train and airport terminals ) that many of us will be re-entering at Level Two . The public will have to take their dafety into their own hands . To paraphrase Spiderman , with greater freedom comes a need for greater responsibility . <h> Damn those dams <p> Amid the media focus on Covid-19 , a lot of other global issues are being swept aside . Gaza for instance has been in lockdown for yeaers and years , with capriciously violent consequences for any transgression of the lockdown rules . Here , we 've been talking about the mental health consequences of only a few weeks under lockdown . <p> Water flows along the 4,300km ( 2,700 mile ) Mekong shift naturally between monsoon and dry seasons , but non-governmental groups say the 11 hydroelectric dams on China 's portion of the river -- five of them starting operation since 2017 -- have disrupted seasonal rhythms . This threatens food security for the more than 60 million people in the Lower Mekong that rely on the river for a livelihood , they say . <p> " Naturally , Mekong water rises and decreases slowly about three to four months from highest to lowest levels , " said Teerapong Pomun , director of the Mekong Community Institute , an NGO focused on water resource management and based in Chiang Mai , Thailand . " But now the water levels fluctuate almost every two to three days all year , and every year , because of the dams . " <p> A serious drought -- and yes , the Covid 19 threat -- are compounding the problems , being experienced downruver . <p> The Mekong River nourishes wetlands known as Asia 's rice bowl thanks to the high nutrient loads the river disperses . Because so many people live off and from the river , disruptions to its water levels can be devastating . <p> " Farm crop yields decrease , animals die , which has a huge impact on the livelihood of people as their life depends on natural resources , " said Bunleap Leang , the executive <p> director of 3S Rivers Protection Network , an NGO that works to support dam-affected communities in northeastern Cambodia . <h> Little Richard RIP <p> Little Richard Penniman was talent spotted at the age of 14 by the gospel great Sister Rosetta Tharpe , and then spent the next six years working amid the remnants of the minstrel circuit , honing his skills as a performer . Looking at the clips online -- and hearing some of the tributes since he died a few days ago at the age of 87 -- it can be difficult to shake the sense of otherness that 's always been draped around him , even amongst the welmeant praise . <p> Meaning : then as now , Richard was treated as the spontaneous , emotionally uninhibited black guy , doing what comes natural . So crazy he gave stardom up after only 17 months to beoame a preacher because of some fireball he saw in the sky above Australia . ( The fact " retirement " also released him from a recording contract that was earning him hits but making him precious little money was n't such a colourful story . ) He always knew the schtick expected of him ; in some ways , he was the greatest ever exponent of it . Somewhere along the line , it became him . <p> Before fame struck , he 'd spent years working out the details , even as he failed to achieve hits during previous stints on the Peacock label and on RCA . What I 'm getting at is that the brilliance of the songs , arrangements and recordings he eventually did on the Specialty label did n't happen spontaneously . In fairy tale fashion , the hits went on to liberate a whole generation of white teenagers ( Bob Dykan and Paul McCartney among them ) even if Pat Boone 's milkwhite cover version of " Tutti Frutti " still outranked Richard 's original on the Billboard charts . <p> Richard eventually became one of rock'n'roll 's crucial , most reliable crossover acts . Sure , Fats Domino , Check Berry and any number of black one off hitmakers and doowop groups also had hit records during this early phase of rock'n'roll . Yet it was Richard 's rasping , occasionally blown out voice that made him the most extreme mainstream act of the entire period . When parents threw up their hands about rock'n'rroll , Little Richard was the prime evidence of where all of this might end up . <p> This was a paradox . All but simultaneously , some of the major conflicts of the civil rights era were being fought out in the nation 's streets and schools . In parallel , white artists were imitating black r&amp; on an industrial scale , but the same audience was surprisingly receptive to black music styles by black performnrs as well.This was happening despite the fact that at many of the shows , blacks were still being roped off into the gallery upstairs , while the white kids crowded the stage and the dance floor . In Little Richard 's act , it can be hard to separate the mugging for the white audience from the genuine flamboyance -- and Jimi Hendrix , Richard 's one time guitarist never entirely resolved the ' superblackness ' performative issue during his own career , either . The mojo gets put to work , overtime . <p> Here 's Little Richard and his band rocking the white folks on the Alan Freed show ..... and also " Greenwood , Mississippi " a good later track he did fior Fame Records , with Travis Wammack featured on guitar . 
@@31831323 <h> GUEST BLOG : Lois Griffiths -- Nakba Day <p> May 15 , Nakba Day , is an important date for the Palestinian people . It 's the day when Palestinians commemorate their history and their culture . While Israeli nationalists and Zionist supporters celebrate the forming in 1948 of the State of Israel , the ' Birth ' of Israel , Palestinians remember the Nakba , the catastrophe , ie , what was done to the indigenous people . <p> It 's a memory that the Israeli regime has tried to outlaw , to erase . Decades ago Israel deliberately renamed , ie ' Hebrewised ' , village and geographical locations . Some destroyed villages were covered over with pine forests , hiding evidence that people had lived there . <p> George Orwell has pointed out that , <p> " The most effective way to destroy people is to deny and obliterate their own understanding of their history . " <p> Palestinian academic Edward Said warned , <p> TDB Recommends NewzEngine.com <p> " Part of the main plan of imperialism ... is that we will give you your history , we will write it for you , we will re-order the past ... What 's more truly frightening is the defacement , the mutilation , and ultimately the eradication of history ... " <p> The Israeli historian Ilan Papp ? has coined the word ' memoricide ' , to describe the Israeli efforts to erase knowledge and evidence of a Palestinian past . <p> The Nakba is more than a historical event . It is an ongoing process . The Nakba continues today as Israel continues to destroy houses , farmlands , schools .. yes schools too .. in the West Bank and East Jerusalem ... as Israeli snipers continue to shoot to kill or permanently maim , unarmed Gazan demonstrators , as Israeli forces continue to attack Gazan fishermen and bomb Gaza . <p> Writer and journalist Ramzy Baroud says about the ' birth ' of Israel , <p> " That blood-stained birth callously required the destruction of an entire nation ; people with a unique history , language , culture and collective memory . It was thus absolutely necessary for the Palestinians to be wiped out to quell any possible sense of Israeli guilt , shame and legal and moral responsibility for what has befallen millions of dispossessed people . " " The Nakba is not merely a question of history , but an ongoing reality that has affected several generations of Palestinians . It is not a celebration of victimhood , but the impetus for an ongoing resistance . It is not an ' event ' assigned a specific political context and analysis , but is now a state of mind ; the Palestinian people 's strongest rapport between them and their past , present and future . " <p> " The old will die : the young will forget " hoped Ben Gurion . He was referring of course to the Palestinian people . ( Actually Zionists try to avoid the very word Palestinian , preferring to say ' Arab ' , as the word ' Palestinian ' is a reminder that the Palestinian people exist ) <p> The Palestinians , including the diaspora , have not forgotten their history , their culture including their poetry , their music , their embroidery , their food . <p> Palestinian-Australian poet Samah Sabawi writes " My Palestinian identity was shaped by food and poetry " . " I write and I cook " she explains . " I create a Palestinian feast of delicious verses " , to remind her children " where we come from . " <p> The most famous Palestinian poet is the late Mahmoud Darwish . He articulated the hopes of his people . <p> " We Palestinians suffer from an incurable disease called ' hope ' . Hope for liberation and independence . Hope for a normal life where we shall be neither heroes nor victims . Hope to see our children go to school without danger . Hope for a pregnant woman to give birth to a living baby , in a hospital , and not to a dead child in front of a military control post . Hope that our poetswill see the beauty of the colour red in roses , rather than in blood . Hope that this land will recover its original name : <p> Land of hope and peace . " <p> Mahmoud Darwish died in 2008 . <p> Do Palestinians still ' suffer from an incurable disease called hope ' ? Now that Covid-19 is in Israel , in Israeli prisons , in East Jerusalem , in the West Bank and in Gaza ? Yes GAZA too . <p> What hope for the Gazans ? <p> Maybe , just maybe , they hope that the outside world has learned from the Covid-19 crisis is that we , global civilian society , are all in this together . <p> Gaza must be helped , the siege must be lifted , NOW . <p> Let 's all hope that next year , NAKBA 2021 , will be a day for Palestinians to remember how , at the darkest moment , a new belief and commitment to humanity was born . <h> STAY CONNECTED <p> Launched on Friday 1 March , 2013 , the ' TheDailyBlog.co.nz ' unites New Zealand 's leading left/centre-left commentators and progressive opinion shapers to provide the other side of the story on today 's news , media and political agendas. 
@@31836668 <p> 15 May 2020 , marks the 72nd anniversary of the Nakba ( Catastrophe ) in Palestine . In 1948 , Zionist militants destroyed 531 Palestinian towns and villages and took control of an additional 774 . More than 800,000 Palestinians were ethnic cleansed ... <p> 15 May 2020 , marks the 72nd anniversary of the Nakba ( Catastrophe ) in Palestine . In 1948 , Zionist militants destroyed 531 Palestinian towns and villages and took control of an additional 774 . More than 800,000 Palestinians were ethnic cleansed and forced to become refugees in the neighboring countries . Yet , the Nakba did not end in 1948 and represents much more than the exile from Palestinian land and ethnic cleansing of Palestinians by Israel . It represents an ongoing reality and struggle for Palestinians , that , at the expense of their human rights , seeks to fulfil the creation of a greater Israeli state . The Nakba is the ongoing story and plight of the Palestinian people , and is likewise a motivation to continue the steadfastness and resistance of the Palestinian people . <p> Today , the descendants of those expelled from their homes in 1948 continue to live as refugees , with many still in neighboring countries , Lebanon , Jordan , Syria as well as West Bank and Gaza . The Nakba resulted in the need for serious humanitarian intervention and resulted in the establishment of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency ( UNRWA ) which is mandated specifically to meeting the needs of Palestinians in providing them with financial support , education , healthcare , shelter and more within the West Bank and Gaza as well as Lebanon , Jordan and Syria . <p> The Nakba is often symbolized by the key to the homes that Palestinians were driven from , often passed down through family members , it is representative of the right and will to return to their homeland . The Nakba is a day for Palestinians to mourn the deaths of family members , the loss and appropriation of Palestinian lands and homes , and the reality that Palestinians have never been given what is their natural right : the right to return to their homeland . <p> The Nakba is a time to reflect on the continuing plight of the Palestinian people . Particularly its continuation and prolongation with the 1967 war and Israeli occupation . Further exacerbated by Israel 's unrelenting and blatant illegal establishment of Israeli settlements in West Bank including Jerusalem . There is a dire need for the recognition of not only the catastrophes during the 1948 Nakba but also for the cessation of the continuous blatant and remorseless attacks Palestinians endure every day under occupation . <p> The deeply regrettable news of Israeli and US plans for the annexation of West Bank settlements , Jordan Valley and North of the Dead Sea , subsequent to Trump 's so-called Peace Plan , is not only in flagrant violation of international law and United Nations Security Council Resolutions , yet , it is also in order to complete the Israeli colonization process . Actions which are extremely dehumanizing to Palestinian people and in flagrant violations of their human rights . It is an attempt at the absolute theft of Palestinian land , history , identity and culture . <p> In the face of such continuous and inexcusable actions , the Palestinian people have demonstrated the upmost resilience , courage , persistence and steadfastness against these circumstances . Palestinians everyday continue their struggle for self-determination and right to return . The steadfast and resilience shown by the Palestinian people is unparalleled and demonstrates the upmost courage . Palestinians refuse to be forgotten . <h> This determination of the Palestinian people for their self-determination in their homeland has been demonstrated in the following four main responses : <h> The strengthening of the Palestinian cause within the international scene and community , including the 139 countries which show full recognition of the State of Palestine <h> The strengthening of national unity in order to achieve self-determination <h> The processes of state building in order to build and provide resilient services to Palestinian people and steadfastness to establishing a homeland <h> The continuation of their non-violent struggle against the Israeli occupation <p> The General Delegation of Palestine to Australia , New Zealand and the Pacific calls on the international community , in particular the Australian and New Zealand governments , to interfere in the illegal Israeli annexation plans , on the grounds that it is in flagrant violation of international law , United Nations Security Council resolutions and is a blatant attempt at the expansion of Israel 's colonization plans . We also call on the international community to work in supporting Palestinian rights for self-determination and a just and sustainable solution to the Palestine-Israel conflict . It is time to allow Palestinians their most basic political and human rights . 
@@31841229 <h> Mild rebuke instead of sanctions serves Zionism <p> According to a TimesofIsrael report on the unity government agreement , on 1 July this year , between Benjamin Netanyahu and Benny Gantz may begin the process of formal annexation of parts of the Occupied West Bank , including the Jordan Valley and all illegal Israeli settlements . In February , Israel announced the introduction of thousands of new housing units in illegal settlements in the Occupied West Bank , including East Jerusalem . The UK Government , among others , reacted to this , as always , with a simple condemnation . <p> But condemnation alone is proving totally ineffectual as a deterrent lacking , as it does , the imposition of sanctions against Israel . Israel must be called to account for its flagrantly illegal human rights abuses against the Palestinian people which constitute a war crime under international law . The Zionist state is driven by an ideological conviction of the superiority of its territorial and ethnocentric goals over both international law and human rights . The international community must recognise this reality because it shares responsibility and obligations to support international law and oppose serious breaches , especially when they inflict injustice and hardship . That means the withdrawal of all forms of co-operation that may grant or reinforce the offending state 's impunity and ability to profit from its illegal actions . <p> Security Council member acknowledges Israeli war crimes <p> A powerful Security Council member , such as the UK , does not deny Israel 's war crimes . Recently , on 29 April , Britain 's Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs ( FO ) , James Cleverly , was asked the following parliamentary question concerning : <p> " . . . what assessment he has made of the effect of recent demolitions and seizures of Palestinian ( a ) homes , ( b ) water and hygiene structures , and ( c ) clinics on the Palestinian Authority 's ability to contain the spread of covid-19 in the Occupied Palestinian Territories . " <p> " The UK is seriously concerned by any demolition and seizure of Palestinian property by Israeli authorities . In all but the most exceptional circumstances demolitions are contrary to International Humanitarian Law ( IHL ) . We are particularly concerned that demolitions are continuing at this time . Such actions weaken the capacity of Palestinians to withstand the impact of COVID-19 . Under IHL , an occupying power has the duty of ensuring and maintaining public health and hygiene in the occupied territory to the fullest extent of the means available to it . We call on both parties to avoid any provocative action which might undermine the co-operation that is so critical . " <p> While in no way attempting to deny the facts of Israel 's human rights violations outlined in the question , Cleverly 's final sentence disgracefully suggests a degree of equality and responsibility between perpetrator and victim . He might just as well have said , well they asked for it . <p> For over half a century , Israel has been shrinking the space it allows the people of the Occupied Palestinian homeland for developing their economy and agriculture or even to build homes . Worse still , Israeli Occupation forces actually destroy Palestinian homes at gunpoint , while forcing the people to accept the building and expansion of Jewish-only settlements on Palestinian land . In addition , Israel 's ever-encroaching annexation Wall , settler-only by-pass roads and military checkpoints impose further crippling restrictions on Palestinian freedom of movement . <p> On 1 May , more than 120 UK parliamentarians , including former Conservative cabinet ministers , wrote to Boris Johnson , urging him to impose economic sanctions against Israel should it annex parts of the West Bank . The letter unequivocally states that annexation would be clearly illegal under international law . Even diplomats and prominent campaigners against so-called ' anti-semitism ' in the Labour Party , such as Margaret Hodge , have signed . In September last year , the UK Government joined with France , Germany , Italy and Spain by warning that unilateral annexation of any part of the West Bank would be a serious breach of international law . The case for sanctions is unchallengeable yet , even though Britain has joined with ten EU diplomats in a call , warning the Israeli Foreign Ministry against annexation , the imposition of sanctions , as opposed to mere condemnation , would be unprecedented . <p> Further acknowledgment <p> In the British Parliament House of Lords , Baroness Tonge asked " Her Majesty 's Government what assessment they have made of reports that Israeli aircraft have sprayed toxic herbicides onto crops near the border fence in the east of Gaza City and damaged farmlands ; and what steps they intend to take in response . " <p> The Minister of State , Foreign and Commonwealth Office and Department for International Development , Lord Ahmed , did not contest the facts raised and simply replied : " . . . we are troubled by reports of assaults on farmers and vandalism of agricultural land . We continue to raise with Israeli counterparts our concerns about Israeli action . " <p> Israeli Occupation update <p> This month , up to and including 12May , there were one Palestinian and 44 Israeli Gaza ceasefire violations . The Israeli violations included 23 Israeli Navy attacks on Palestinian fishing boats and 15 Israeli Army attacks on agriculture in Gaza . <p> On 12 May , the UN Office for the Co-ordination of Humanitarian Affairs ( OCHA ) reported asharp increase in settler violencethat is " undermining already fragile farming livelihoods in various West Bank areas . Attacks have increased since the Covid-19emergency was declared , despite movement restrictions , lockdowns and social distancing . The attacks have included physical assault , torching of Palestinian vehicles , theft of livestock and vandalising of fruit trees . " <p> The Israeli Occupation continued its population-control tyranny in the West Bank , destroying homes , sabotaging the Palestinian economy and interfering with the people 's attempts to manage Covid-19 transmission -- here areone or two examples , from each day : <p> 1 May 2020 : <p> In Kafr Qaddum , Israeli forces fired rubber-coated steel bullets , stun grenades and tear gas canisters at villagers protesting against the closure of their village , wounding six residents , including two children , and causing several tear gas casualties . Just after midnight , Israeli forces , firing rubber-coated steel bullets , stun grenades and tear gas canisters , raided al-Eisawiya village while , during the day , they raided the Cremisan area in north-west Beit Jallah , seizing and destroying beehives , the property of a resident , Nasr Nimr Abd Rabbo . <p> 2 May : <p> In Azzun Atma village the Israeli Army seized Palestinian farmland planted with olive and almond trees and trapped behind the Israeli Occupation Wall . <p> 3 May : <p> Israeli forces seized construction equipment from a man , Na'im Abdel-Qadder , who was digging a well in an area between Ras Atiya and Magharat Al-Dab'a villages , and <p> During the morning , Israeli forces destroyed a barn near al-Aqbat village in the North Jordan Valley , as well as destroying a well under construction in al-Jiftlik village . Israeli soldiers also beat up and hospitalised a resident , Naseem Ayman Na'im Abdel-Qadder , near the entrance to Turmusaya . <p> 5 May : <p> The firing of a missile by Palestinian Resistance members was met with a further eight Israeli Gaza ceasefire violations , including five acts of agricultural/economic sabotage . <p> 6 May : <p> Israelisfrom the Efrat Occupation settlementinvaded farmland in al-Khadr and uprooted 450 Palestinian grapevines . That evening , a gang from the Homish Israeli Occupation settlement invaded Palestinian pastoral land in the Bab al-Wad area , near Burqa village , and assaulted a goatherd , Harbi Mohammad Ali Abboud , leaving him hospitalised with a fractured foot and severe bruising . The settlers also made off with 70 goats belonging to Abboud . <p> 7 May : <p> With two 14-year-old boy refugees abducted and armed soldiers robbing a man of his bulldozer , the daily Israeli Army population-control violence also includedthe beating and hospitalisation of 15-year-old Ameer Ziyad Rushdi Yusef who , as a result , suffered broken bones as well asinternal bleeding in hispelvis andupper chest . <p> 8 May : <p> Two members of a fishing crew were wounded during five Israeli Navy attacks on Palestinian fishing boats off Gaza . In the West Bank , Occupation settler malevolence included the destruction of 40 olive trees and the theft of crops from Palestinian farmland . The number of Palestinian wounded totalled six by the end of the day . <p> 9 May : <p> Fourpeople were wounded and a journalist was taken prisoner after Israeli troops invaded his home . <p> Another four Israeli Navy attacks on Palestinian fishing boats and two armed Israeli Army incursions into Gaza , together with the familiar agricultural sabotage , marked another miserable day in Gaza . In Nablus , in the West Bank , Israeli settler militants raided an agricultural nursery and stole fruit tree seedlings , water reticulation material and other agricultural equipment . <p> 12 May : <p> At 4:30am , the Israeli Army , firing live ammunition , rubber-coated steel bullets , stun grenades and tear gas canisters , raided Ya'bad , earched several homes and took prisoner four people . As the soldiers moved out with their prisoners , one of them , 21-year-old Staff Sgt Amit Ben Ygal , was hit by a stone thrown from a nearby roof and died of his injury a few hours later . The four people taken prisoner during the invasions of their homes were identified as : Ali Muhammad Nazmi Abu Bakr , Yazen Kamel Abu Shamla , Marcel Bassem Lotfi Abu Bakr and Anas Kamel Abu Shamla . <p> Settlement expansion <p> On 6 May , Israeli Defence Minister , Naftali Bennett , announced his approval of the addition of 7,000 new housing unitsin the Israeli Efrat settlement on Occupied land in al-Khadr , Bethlehem . Bennett tweeted that he had instructed the military to continue to strengthen settlements . The US Ambassador to Israel , David Friedman , gave a newspaper interview in which he said America is prepared to recognise an Israeli declaration of sovereignty over settlements in ' Judea and Samaria ' and the Jordan Valley , so long as the Jewish state accepts conditions requested by the Trump Administration . <p> Zionist influence over the US <p> On 7 May , it was reported that the US Department of Justice is dropping its case against Trump 's former National Security Adviser , Mike Flynn , even thoughhe has admittedthat he lied to the FBI.In 2016 , Flynn called on a number of countries , in an attempt to get them to counter a US decision to allow the New Zealand-sponsored Security Council Resolution 2334 to go unchallenged.According to the original Justice Department charge sheet , to which Flynn pleaded guilty : " On or about December 22 , 2016 , a very senior member of the Presidential Transition Team directed Flynn to contact officials from foreign governments , including Russia , to learn where each government stood on the resolution and to influence those governments to delay the vote or defeat the resolution . . . " Fortunately , Flynn failed in the attempt and , with the US abstaining , the resolution was adopted 14-0 . In 2017 , the New York Timesexpressed unease over the role of Israel in the case and today the issue of Israel 's ability to influence US politics has been exposed once again . <p> UN Appeals <p> Due to the Covid-19 crisis , UN officials are calling for the immediate release of all Palestinian children held in captivity in Israeland Palestine . In a joint Press Statement , Jamie McGoldrick , Humanitarian Co-ordinator in the Occupied Palestinian territory , Genevieve Boutin , UNICEF Special Representative in the State of Palestine and James Heenan , Head of the UN Human Rights Office in the Occupied Palestinian territory reminded the world that , according to the Israeli Prison Service , 194 Palestinian children were being detained in prisons and detention centres , mainly in Israel . This is higher even than the monthly average number of children held in 2019 . The UN appeal states : " Children in detention face heightened risk of contracting COVID-19 , with physical distancing and other preventive measures often absent or difficult to achieve . " <p> The majority of these children have not been convicted of any offence but are being held , while awaiting trial . The removal of abducted children from Palestine to Israel is a gross violation of the Fourth Geneva Convention . Article 49 of the Fourth Geneva Convention states : " The Occupying Power shall not deport or transfer parts of its own civilian population into the territory it occupies . " It also prohibits the " individual or mass forcible transfers , as well as deportations of protected persons from occupied territory " . Under Article 147 of the 1949 Geneva Convention IV , " unlawful deportation or transfer . . . of a protected person " constitutes a grave breach of the Convention . See alsoStatement by the Committee on the Rights of the Child . <p> The law clearly recognises that such population transfer is often a step towards intended colonisation and annexation , yetthe international community does nothing to stop what amounts to a war crime under international criminal law . <p> NZ Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade ( MFAT ) <p> New Zealand should stand by its declared support for rules-based international law and human rights . On its website , MFAT reminds us that : " After a 10 year campaign New Zealand was voted onto the UN Security Council in 2014 and served two years in 2015 and 2016 . Our seat on the Security Council placed New Zealand at the heart of international decisions on peace and security . " In 2016 , this country successfully promoted Security Council Resolution 2334 which , sadly , although passed without opposition , has achieved nothing to halt Israel 's gross violations of international humanitarian law . An appeal by the UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights in the Occupied Palestinian territory , Professor Michael Lynk , calls upon the international community to ensure that Israel must face the cost of its violations of international law . It is high time the UN imposed sanctions upon Israel . <p> The Israel lobby is used to getting its way in the US and the UK . The power and influence of these UN Security Council members is immense but it is not absolute . Those who would have us stay silent , whether they be our ' traditional allies ' or those closer to home who are dedicated to serving Zionism 's ambitions , must be opposed and told so in no uncertain terms . MFAT tells us : " The United Nations works to make the world peaceful and secure , and to promote social progress , better living standards and human rights . " The highest judicial body in the world , the International Criminal Court ( ICJ ) , finds Israel guilty of war crimes which violate " principles outlined in the UN Charter and long-standing global conventions that prohibit the threat or use of force and the acquisition of territory that way , as well as principles upholding the right of peoples to self-determination . " <p> New Zealand could , and should , lead the demand for an end to the shameful lack of decisive international action that is required if Israel is ever to be brought to account . <p> Leslie Bravery is a Londoner with vivid World War Two memories of the Nazi blitz on his home town . In 1947/1948 His father explained to him what was happening to the Palestinians thus : " Any ideology or political movement that creates refugees in the process of realising its ambitions must be inhuman and should be opposed and condemned as unacceptable . " What followed confirmed this assessment of the Zionist entity a hundredfold . Now a retired flamenco guitarist , with a lifelong interest in the tragedy of what happened to the Palestinian people , he tries to publicise their plight . Because the daily injustices they suffer barely get a mention in the mainstream news media , Leslie edits/compiles a daily newsletter , In Occupied Palestine , for the Palestine Human Rights Campaign . These days , to preserve his sanity , he enjoys taking part in a drama group whenever possible ! <h> STAY CONNECTED <p> Launched on Friday 1 March , 2013 , the ' TheDailyBlog.co.nz ' unites New Zealand 's leading left/centre-left commentators and progressive opinion shapers to provide the other side of the story on today 's news , media and political agendas. 
@@31846624 <h> New Zealand government silent on deals with Israel <p> Palestine Solidarity Network Aotearoa is accusing the New Zealand government of developing a back-door policy entanglement with the State of Israel . <p> PSNA says it only discovered that New Zealand had actually signed a Technical , Innovation , Research and Development Agreement with Israel through a Facebook post by the Israeli Embassy . <p> National Chair , John Minto , says New Zealand Minister , Megan Woods signed the Agreement on 5 March , but kept it totally quiet at the time . <p> " Normally a major bilateral deal would involve photo opportunities at Parliament and press releases . On this occasion , with the Israelis , nothing . " <p> John Minto says he concludes that the government is embarrassed about an increasing set of agreements with Israel . <p> TDB Recommends NewzEngine.com <p> " They know that they should n't be doing deals when Israel is poised to illegally annex major parts of the Occupied Palestinian Territories . " <p> " They know they should be breaking off agreements with Israel at this time -- not signing new ones . " <p> John Minto says the previous government delayed signing the New Zealand-Israel Film Coproduction Agreement until 2015 , because it thought that signing the Agreement while Israel was attacking Gaza the previous year was ' not a good look . ' <p> " The current government has never criticised Israeli actions . Not even in 2018 when Israeli snipers were gunning down unarmed Palestinian protesters through the Israeli blockade fence around Gaza . And now not when the Israeli government is ready to steal more Palestinian land . " <p> Respect for international law and the most basic human rights demands New Zealand suspend all bi-lateral agreements with Israel until the threat of annexation is lifted . <h> 14 COMMENTS <p> Israel develops numerous products/inventions that help mankind .... now when was the last time an Islamic nation was leading the world in developing leading edge technology that helps everyone ? Islam stopped being ' innotive ' and world leading centuries ago and let their religion take over from the science and arts and culture ! <p> If you were truly being sincer you would know the last time Islam made genuine contributions to science and the humanities was just before Israelis started denying that they coveted dearly Islamic land . <p> You only need to read the death list from the Christchurch mosque 's to see that Islamic people make valuable contributions to society . While putting religious powers in charge of civil government is a human rights disaster the dark ages told us that so there is nothing new to learn there . What Israel is doing to the Palestinians &amp; the way they keep violating previous agreements is wrong &amp; should not be ignored just because some people make money from doing business with them . <p> what 's your bs comment got to do with the facts that the Israeli govt is committing genocide against the Palestinians and its apartheid you know apartheid aye , like what happened in Sth Africa denying people of another race their civil rights ? who gives a fuck about Israel products when they are murdering people and stealing their land . Fuck what planet do some of you people live on ? ? <p> I think you mean innovative ' And , would you like to be specific about these Israeli products ? They still do not excuse what the fascist Israeli state is doing to the Palestinians . Or our own government turning a blind eye . <p> But what can we do ? Paid advertising in newspapers might be the only outlet . <p> As for IM RIGHT ' s remarks , Israel leads the world in its development of techniques &amp; weapons for oppression , including drones , battle-tested on Gazans and other Palestinians . Israeli police even training America police .. already over ' militarized ' ! ( exposed by Jewish Voice for Peace ) New Zealand should be openly opposing , not quietly supporting , such a cruel inhumane regime . The Palestinians do n't call for an ' Islamic ' state .. some Palestinians are religious .. some are Christian or Muslim .. some are secular . Palestinians want to live .. want a world of justice , of freedom for all of humanity . <p> " The Palestinians do n't call for an ' Islamic ' state .. some Palestinians are religious .. some are Christian or Muslim .. some are secular . Palestinians want to live .. want a world of justice , of freedom for all of humanity " Then why did they vote for Hezbollah and Hamas to run the region ? Both Islamic terrorist organisations and Hezbollah , funded by Iran , who have a mandate to wipe Israel off the map ... yes , what a fantastic way to show the world you want peace , and freedom/justice PFFT ! Do you really think Iran listens to the people of Palestine 's needs/wants ? There is just one goal/reason for Hezbollah being there and that is to be closer to Israel and fire hundreds of , Iranian paid for , rockets at them a month . the Palestinian people are ' useful idiots ' when it comes to Iranian propaganda and Hezbollah attacks . <p> @ im right and gaby are good examples of those who should be monitored very closely while taking what they say with a grain of salt . Liars putting a logical fallacy spin on their dangerous and covert agendas is nothing new . While there are those few who worry about Chinese infiltration and interference in our politics it 'll be the psychopathic zionists who will , if given half a chance , be the ones driving us AO/NZ'ers off our Islands . We AO/NZ'ers should be very , very concerned . And megan woods should be sacked immediately and a by-election should be called for . The fact that , that wo n't happen could be an indication of how far into our politics the zionists may have infected us . I 'm starting to get an understanding of why our government is allowing foreign banksters to take $6 billion dollars out of our economy in net profits annually while allowing our domestic real estate ' values ' to be jacked up artificially . Is it because our government is all bought and paid for ? Is the mortgages we pay simply rent to our new owners ? A $2 million dollar house in , say , Ponsonby is n't home ownership ... it 's enslavement and that , by and of itself , should be an example of just how independent we no longer are . megan woods would n't have acted alone either . Who/what are her alliances here and abroad ? Who 's pulling her strings ? Who 's lining her pockets ? ( Aside from the obvious murderous , war criminal israeli 's of course ) When one adds the word ' secret ' to the word ' politician ' the gloves can come off as far as I 'm concerned . <p> Although it is hardly a surprise that NZ 's human rights opinions are now surpassed by bovine , trade deals that tend to help other nations right wing/totalitarian/big business politics while subjugating the locals human rights ( in both countries ) . <p> Wake up wokies ! <p> While you are trying to get more of the world 's exploiters into NZ to take over Israeli style , take a minute to consider what the end result for yourself is going to be , once there are more exploiters in a nation to vote policy that suits them , they find the locals an inconvenience ? <p> Israel gives all its citizens a vote including 1.5 million Arabs , and there are Arab members of the Knesset . So in fact Israel is NOT an apartheid state , it is a liberal democracy . Unlike Gaza and the West Bank who have n't had elections in decades . <p> So what are the parallels with South Africa ? <p> 1/ There is terrorist insurgency along their borders <p> 2/ There is a radical , leftist element in the West urging their destruction . I urge these people to go visit the corrupt , inept shambles that is South Africa today and reconsider . <p> I 'm buggered if I can understand why people feed the hasbara trolls . They always lie &amp; never engage with whatever issue is under discussion . They only serve to poison minds with their racist zionist ideology by avoiding issues at hand whilst spread truckloads of BS about irrelevancies , trying to appear reasonable in the face of Palestinian people of all faiths being subjected to murder rape , pillage and theft as a continuous zionist driven policy since 1947 . They call other who oppose their inhumane actions " terrorists " while never acknowledging the bombing of the King David hotel which caused the death of UK servicemen and civilians -- insult to injury , the leader of that attack was later made Prime Minister of Israel . Nor the deliberate attack on an amerikan communications vessel USS Liberty resulting in the death of many US Servicemen . Insult there was the attempt to blackmail then President Johnson with the usual zionist smear , smear that he was an anti-semite simply because he pointed out the egregious nature of this attack on an unarmed US Navy vessel to Newsweek magazine . No truth no honour , that is apartheid israel , aka occupied Palestine . Lying propagandists should never be fed . <h> STAY CONNECTED <p> Launched on Friday 1 March , 2013 , the ' TheDailyBlog.co.nz ' unites New Zealand 's leading left/centre-left commentators and progressive opinion shapers to provide the other side of the story on today 's news , media and political agendas. 
@@31846891 <p> Before the announcement of the Covid-19 alert levels , the school climate strikers had April 3 set for a protest in Auckland . However , under Alert Level 2 restrictions , gatherings of over 100 people are n't permitted . Now , there 's action planned for next Friday . <p> School Strike for Climate Auckland organiser and Avondale College student Coco Lovatt said it took some work to regain momentum as the lockdown began . <p> " We 've had to reshape the way that we do things - turning it from mass mobilisation to behind-the-scenes lobbying , " she said . <p> " We are going to be asking the children of New Zealand and anyone else who wants to protest for climate action to , instead of taking to the streets , take to the end of the driveway and draw what they want their future to look like . <p> " The focus for this strike is a green response and seeing green , sustainable stimulus projects rather than more roads . " <p> She said people would then be encouraged to post their drawings online . <p> Ms Lovatt said the group was also trying to confirm an online question-and-answer session with Finance Minister Grant Robertson after next Thursday 's Budget announcement . <p> She said advocating for the climate was more important than ever following the pandemic as the country looked to restart its economy . Alongside strike partners 4 Tha Kulture ( 4TK ) , an indigenous environmentalist group from South Auckland , the group called for a " Covid green response " in an online petition to the Government . <p> Ms Lovatt said the petition was started out of " a gut feeling that maybe it wo n't go the way we want it to go " . <p> " It 's a little bit scary because it 's like , we can only do so much and now it 's really down to our leaders . " <p> But she said organising and hosting things online came with its own challenges . <p> Aorere College student and 4TK co-founder Aigagalefili Fepulea'i-Tapua'i said the open letter focused on " the importance of listening to indigenous voices " when responding to the pandemic in a ' green ' way . <p> National chair and political activist John Minto said the group originally planned to protest in front of Parliament to ask the Government to take action . <p> They shifted to a Zoom call as lockdown restrictions were put in place because they felt it was " still important to speak out " . <p> " It does n't have to be that way . People in Gaza are crying out for equipment , " he said . <p> Mr Minto said going online had enhanced the strike as they were able to hear directly from health care professionals in Gaza . He said this provided a " really immediate " human face to what was happening in the region , and the group was looking at how it could continue it during future protests . <p> " Without the pandemic , we would n't be talking to these people normally . " <p> Mr Minto said getting to grips with the technology was a challenge as the group had to figure out how to get over 100 people on a call at once from New Zealand and Gaza . <p> Dr Lara Greaves , a lecturer at the University of Auckland specialising in political attitudes and behaviour , said moving action online may lower the threshold for people to consider taking part in a cause , at least at first . <p> " People who protest will carry out collective action when there 's something they 're dissatisfied with , but also when there 's not necessarily a mechanism in the system itself to help them achieve that change or maybe they do n't know about it , " she said . <p> " For them to get to that point where they have some kind of protest or collective action that gets attention and causes some kind of change , that 's still just as difficult , if not more difficult digitally . " <p> Dr Greaves said while traditional methods of protesting are " well-trodden " where there are established ways it 's best done , online environments were filled with so many other causes that it could cause fatigue . <p> It would depend on what the cause was in the end to see if it would be successful online , she said . <p> Dr Greaves said digital action also lacked the power of a mass of people occupying physical space . <p> " Just that physical mass of people occupying the space is a really good signal to people that a whole bunch of people think this way ... because people are really bad at conceptualising support for different policies . " <p> " The other thing in that is we have a population that does n't have access to internet devices , " she said , whether for socio-economic reasons or generational differences . <p> Documents released by the Government yesterday estimated that about 82,000 households do n't have internet access . 
@@31847803 <h> A sincere appreciation of The Hunger Games <p> Hunger Games prequel The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes is released internationally today . Books editor Catherine Woulfe is all in . <p> The Hunger Games is 12 years old . Much of the hype and silliness that originally surrounded the series has faded , leaving a story that feels more grown-up , more permanent . It reads so much better now . To the point that I 'm not just fangirl-amped about the prequel coming out -- I 'm intellectually invigorated . Coffee and quiet , please , while I sit with this new book and read it four times over . There are myriad questions I want answered but at the same time really do n't . It 's exactly how I felt when Margaret Atwood released The Testaments . <p> Yet some are still snide and dismissive towards Suzanne Collins ' trilogy . Perhaps that 's because it launched into the slipstream of Twilight and the two get conflated whenever we talk about the reinvigoration of young adult fiction . Perhaps also because , like Twilight , it was made into a series of blockbuster films . <p> But The Hunger Games is not like Twilight ( I love Twilight , although I do see its flaws ) . The Hunger Games is a grown-up story , rich and deep and dark . It is complex but told with clarity . It sticks in the mind and holds together when you turn it over . It is not , truly , a gross-out story about kids fighting to the death -- the actual Games , the scenes in the arena , take up a small part of the second book , and play no part in the third . <p> Collins says she set out to write about just-war theory , which she describes as " an attempt to define what circumstances give you the moral right to wage war and what is acceptable behavior within that war and its aftermath . The why and the how . " In doing so she covers politics and media , the central role of optics . She expertly examines trauma and how it changes a person . Addiction , capitalism , grief . She does it with breathtaking confidence and at pace . She does it with wisdom . I got a glimmer of this when I first read it and many reads later I 'm sure : The Hunger Games is a classic . <p> Suzanne Collins ' series The Hunger Games , and the upcoming prequel The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes . ( Photo : songbirdsandsnakes.com ) <p> I 'm not alone in this conviction . I 've just bought a book called Of Bread , Blood and The Hunger Games : Critical Essays on the Suzanne Collins Trilogy . Have n't read it yet , but the blurb promises these essays , by various academics , have three elements in common : " an appreciation of the trilogy as literature , a belief in its permanent value , and a need to share both appreciation and belief with fellow readers " . These are my people . <p> But back to the people who think it 's a bit shit . Here are the markers of Level 2 NCEA English exams giving feedback to teachers a few months ago : <p> Popular texts and authors that worked well included Shakespeare ( Hamlet , Othello , Macbeth ) , war poetry ( Wilfred Owen and others ) , Owen Marshall , Maya Angelou , Carol Ann Duffy , Katherine Mansfield , To Kill a Mockingbird , Lord of the Flies , 1984 and Frankenstein . It was pleasing to see a significant number of candidates writing on New Zealand and Pasifika poetry . <p> Some texts did not allow candidates to reach the required depth for Level 7 of The New Zealand Curriculum . These included : Wikipedia entries , magazine articles , short online texts , Teen fiction ( e.g. Hunger Games , Feed ) , " In the Rubbish Tin " , " On the Sidewalk Bleeding " and various song lyrics . <p> A lot to pick apart there , but for now : Teen fiction . You can just hear the sneer . And to equate this series -- and " teen fiction " in general -- with Wiki entries ? ! With song lyrics ? I cringe for the kids who adore The Hunger Games and who , like me , think about these books deeply . Imagine if , in this story , you 'd finally found something you considered worth reading . Imagine if you found reading hard but felt this story was worth persevering for . <p> Teachers , hopefully , are ignoring this report . It is at odds with stacks of other content NZQA has put out over the years , like essay exemplars and teaching notes , where The Hunger Games is treated right . <p> Donald Sutherland as President Snow -- very much not just a harmless old duffer . <p> Here 's a quick once-over of the plot . We 're in some kind of broken future world . America probably . What remains of humanity is corralled into 12 miserable " districts " -- there are often parallels drawn with Gaza -- presided over by a grotesquely opulent Capitol . At the apex is President Snow . ( He likes to poison ; he has a gruesome sweet smell ; the prequel out today tells his origin story . ) To keep the districts quelled the Capitol holds an annual Hunger Games , where they choose a boy and a girl from each district , stick them in a high-tech nightmarescape of an arena -- the setting might be sea or desert or forest , it changes every year -- and make the people watch until only one child is left alive . <p> Katniss Everdeen is born into the lowly , coal-mining District 12 . Aged 16 , she volunteers for the 74th Hunger Games to save her little sister , whose name has been drawn from the ballot . The boy chosen alongside her is Peeta Mallark . They win their Games , and in books two and three Katniss becomes a figurehead for the districts ' revolution . She quickly realises that 's not as noble as it sounds . <p> As I write this I 'm also rewatching the first movie . Which is how it feels to read the books , too , once you 've seen the films . The screen version scours off the worst of the barbarity and hurt . In the books , for example , Cato , the last survivor of the 74th Games besides our heroes , endures an excruciating night being mauled by the Capitol 's mutts . Katniss and Peeta spend that time horrified , listening , perched safe above him but unable to get off a shot to end it . Here 's Katniss : " It goes on and on and eventually consumes my mind , blocking out memories and my hopes of tomorrow , erasing everything but the present , which I begin to believe will never change . There will never be anything but cold and fear and the agonized sounds of the boy dying ... " Much cleaner in the movie : Katniss is able to mercy-kill Cato after just a moment . <p> You do lose a lot when you lose those raw edges . You ca n't just watch the films and assume you know the books . ( I wonder whether that 's what last year 's exam markers did . ) But there is a precisely right quality to the lighting and costuming , and to Jennifer Lawrence -- that perfect sarcastic curtsey after she shoots at the gamemakers ! -- that means the films tend to overwrite any other version a reader might envisage . <p> Elizabeth Banks as the Capitol 's ditzy Effie ( left ) and Jennifer Lawrence as Katniss at the Reaping -- Katniss 's first time on a stage . From the 2012 film The Hunger Games . <p> Anyway , super appropriate to have half an eye on the TV , given Collins ' fascination with surveillance and perception and performance and surfaces . This is certainly a thread you could pull on with an hour and a silent exam room . A large part of Katniss 's power comes from her skill in front of a camera -- not her charisma , by any means , but her understanding of what audiences crave and how a single well-chosen line will land and foment . By book three she is speaking in shorthand : " propos " , she calls the propaganda videos she shoots for the rebels . There you go : sprinkle a few Noam Chomsky quotes on top , maybe cast to Trump and Fox et al , and you 've got yourself an essay . A Merit , at least . ( Chomsky ! ) <p> Now and then , especially during scenes of the Games , snatches of university Foucault come swimming back up at me too . The arena is essentially a prison . Those inside ca n't see its edges let alone see out of it . Those on the outside are always watching , and because there are cameras secreted everywhere they can see everything . The Districts themselves get pretty panopticon-shaped , too , if you think about it . <p> So yeah , I 'm leaving the TV on . Right now Katniss is slamming Peeta against a marble wall . Now they are on a rooftop looking down at the lights of the Capitol . The two of them far above the madding crowds . Talking about goodness and death . <p> Can we talk about symbolism , and how it is so beautifully drawn , so smooth and even , throughout these books ? If you went through with a highlighter every couple of pars would be lit up . Flowers , for all that is good in the world . Bread , as a token of kindness and kinship and respect . Makeup , for superficiality and deception . And arrows . Arrows for truth and insight and for directness . For piercing to the heart of things . <p> The opening ceremony of the 75th Hunger Games , from the 2013 film Catching Fire . <p> It 's very Classics , too , of course , Katniss with her archery . You might write about that . The explicit jostling for power ; the pageantry and feasting , the whole gladiator setup , the Games themselves . I 'm reading Madeline Miller 's Greek myth-inspired novel Circe at the moment and seeing parallels all over the place . Collins has said she was riffing on the myth of Theseus : <p> As a young prince of Athens , he participated in a lottery that required seven girls and seven boys to be taken to Crete and thrown into a labyrinth to be destroyed by the Minotaur . In one version of the myth , this excessively cruel punishment resulted from the Athenians opposing Crete in a war ... <p> In the second book we meet Finnick , the beautiful youth who swims like a fish and kills with a trident . ( Also very Classics : one of the darkest aspects of all three books is Finnick 's backstory . That golden , godlike boy who won his Games was then sold for sex , for years , with a series of wealthy patrons . His family would be killed if he did not comply . ) <p> Finnick and Katniss are among the many tributes living with post-traumatic stress disorder . Collins writes about this , and mental health more generally , at length and with intelligence and great , restrained compassion . For me it 's a hallmark and a highlight of her work . Trauma and how it manifests : any young person who lived through the Christchurch earthquakes , who suffered during lockdown , who is desperately anxious about our falling-apart planet , will see themselves in these books . Our young people might recognise the way Collins handles addiction , too -- on this she is wildly better than the films , where Haymitch 's drinking is largely treated as light relief . In the books it is relentless and chaos-inducing . <p> There are two love interests in the mix but it 's made clear that in choosing one Katniss is , more importantly , deciding something about the human condition . About her human condition . This is no moony triangle and it 's certainly not the engine of the book . Collins has plenty else to power her . <p> It is a pleasure to re-read the series and realise that it 's more than stood up . That what Collins wrote as a thought experiment has matured into a sort of prescience . ( Look at Trump 's gilded tower and his wall , his tearing apart and caging up of migrant families ; at smartphones and Love Island and Facebook ; at the opioid epidemic and its links to ever-ratcheting inequality ; at the millions soon to be displaced by climate war and famine . ) On a base level it 's simply very cool to know that a classic -- a masterwork -- was published in my lifetime , and that I unabashedly loved it . <p> In the end , Katniss makes the best choice . She remains seriously messed up . We leave her as an adult and a mother , vastly changed . I believed her story completely . <p> Collins wrote about the making of a person . I ca n't wait to see her do it again -- only this time with that syrupy , chuckling , cruel old man , Coriolanus Snow . <p> The Hunger Games : The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes by Suzanne Collins ( Scholastic , $29.99 ) is available as an ebook today . Tomorrow you can buy it from Unity Books . <p> The Spinoff Review of Books is proudly brought to you by Unity Books , recently named 2020 International Book Store of the Year , London Book Fair . Visit Unity Books Wellington or Unity Books Auckland online stores today . <p> The Bulletin is The Spinoff 's acclaimed daily digest of New Zealand 's most important stories , delivered directly to your inbox each morning . <p> The Spinoff is subject to NZ Press Council procedures . A complaint must first be directed in writing , within one month of publication , to info@thespinoff.co.nz . If not satisfied with the response , the complaint may be referred to the online complaint form at www.presscouncil.org.nz along with a link to the relevant story and all correspondence with the publication . 
@@31858550 <p> In response to the recent Israeli occupation plans to annex parts of the Occupied Palestinian Territories ( OPT ) , the Palestinian Leadership has declared the following points . The Palestine Liberation Organization ( PLO ) and the State of Palestine are ... <p> In response to the recent Israeli occupation plans to annex parts of the Occupied Palestinian Territories ( OPT ) , the Palestinian Leadership has declared the following points . <p> The Palestine Liberation Organization ( PLO ) and the State of Palestine are absolved of all agreements and understandings , including their commitments , with both the US and Israeli governments . Over the past 27 years , the PLO has maintained solid and consistent commitment and adherence to signed agreements , including constructive responses to US administrations , international initiatives and calls for dialogue and negotiations , not limited to the signing of the Oslo Accord . Similarly , on the basis of UN resolutions , the State of Palestine has continued to seek resolutions to continued conflict , while maintaining its commitment to peace agreements . Yet , the Israeli government continues to violate these agreements and international law to entirely undermine any attempt at a peaceful advancement in order to purposely undermine any progression towards a two-state solution . Demonstrated by , yet not exclusive to , accelerating its settlement activities , including the systematic expansion within Area C , land and wage war , and continuous siege on Palestinians in Gaza . The US administration 's continuous and belligerent interference is inexcusable and is , indeed , also responsible of providing impunity and protection from any accountability of Israel 's violations . The unveiling of the so-called " Deal of the Century " and subsequently the annexation plans , are simply an accumulation of longstanding US and Israeli policies . <p> In this context , the Palestinian leadership , reaffirms its dedication and commitment to the two-state solution on 1967 borders as a solution to the Palestine-Israel conflict . Undoubtedly , the two-state solution , in the context of self-determination , international law and existing UN solutions , will cease to exist , as a result of the annexation plan . Yet , the establishment of a two-state solution is an obligation by the State of Israel and one which must be respected . In order to adhere to international law , three fundamental policies maintain : stopping Israeli colonial settlements which entirely undermine this process ; defending the Palestinian people 's right to self-determination and statehood by reaffirming the principles of international law and UN resolutions ; leading efforts to formulate a multilateral and credible approach to ending the Palestine-Israel conflict . <p> Based on the Palestinian Leadership decision and in accordance with International Law , Israel now holds the responsibilities and obligations as the occupying authority over the OPT , the power responsible for , yet not limited to , the protection of the civilian population under occupation . Nevertheless , the Palestinian leadership will continue to shoulder its responsibilities towards the Palestinian people , by protecting national institutions , asserting sovereignty , as well as affirming the state of Palestine on the international stage . Additionally , based on principles of human rights , social justice and good governance , the Palestinian leadership will continue to protect and strengthen its system of governance . In addition , The State of Palestine will no longer hesitate to accede to international agreements and conventions which have yet to be joined . <p> Nevertheless , the Palestinian leadership reaffirm its firm commitment to fighting international terrorism and in keeping in line with our commitment to international law and relevant resolutions . <p> The Palestinian leadership calls on the international community , in particular Australia , New Zealand and Pacific countries , to not only reject and condemn the so-called " Deal of the Century " and US and Israel policies , of which severely violate international legitimacy and agreements signed , but to take swift and deterrent actions , such as imposing serious sanctions , in order to prevent the Israeli occupying state from implementing its outrightly abusive agenda and its unequivocal attempt at the ethnic cleansing of Palestinians while outrightly denying them their most basic human rights . It is the right of the Palestinian people to seek accountability for crimes against them and one which the international community must also endorse . 
@@31868140 <h> No business with Israel while military Occupation rules <p> From 13-25May ( inclusive ) , there were 34 Israeli Gaza ceasefire violations , none of which provoked even a single Palestinian response . The Israeli Navy carried out 14 attacks on Palestinian fishing boats that included the wounding of one fisherman , as well as a hijacking and the taking of prisoners . Besides many attacks on local agriculture , the Israeli Army made three incursions into Gaza . Israel claims that its violence towards Gaza is in order to protect its borders -- but it is the Zionist regime 's forces that pass at will , in and out of Gaza , taking advantage of the people 's total lack of defence . <p> In the West Bank , there were 22 raids , with home invasions , on Palestinian villages and towns . On 13 May , Israeli forces , firing live ammunition , rubber-coated steel bullets , stun grenades and tear gas canisters , continued sporadic raiding ( begun the day before , with the wounding of three people ) in the village of Yabad . Houses were searchedand yet another person , Mahdi Billal Hamarshat , was wounded . In the early morning , a mother , Nujoud Muhammad Salih Khamayseh , was admitted to hospital in Jenin after suffering a nervous breakdown , as a result of seeing Israeli soldiers severely beating and hospitalising her 13-year-old son , Mu'tasim Ribhi Muhammad Abu Bakr . <p> During the night of 15 May , Israeli forces raided the Aqbat al-Jabir UN refugee camp and searched a home , wounding one person , Eyad Khalid Qatash , before going on to beat up and hospitalise three more residents , Fathi Muhammad Raslan Muaqil , Muhammad Nader Qattam and Muhammad Hamidat . Later the same day , Israeli Occupation forces , in al-Eizariya , opened fire with rubber-coated steel bullets , stun grenades and tear gas canisters , striking in the face and hospitalising a four-year-old child , Mohammad Ahmad Abu Da'mous . On 16 May , a mob from the Yitzhar Israeli Occupation settlement raided Einabus village agricultural land , beating up and hospitalising a farmer , Eyad Fawzi Hussein . <p> On 17 May , an Israeli Occupation settler , in the Old City of Jerusalem , knifed and hospitalised a 17-year-old Palestinian youth , Mohammad Al-Natsh . On 18 May , armed Israeli soldiers robbed Majdi Hashim Mohammed Hamad of his bulldozer as he worked his land in the village of Immatin , and seized a wooden hut from a Beit Einoun villager , Hisham Eida . On 19 May , for the second day in a row , Occupation forces bulldozed Palestinian farmland , in order to make way fora seven-kilometre settler-only road . Israelis from the Rahalim Occupation settlement made their presence felt by setting fire to crops and olive trees on al-Sawiya village farmland . Other settlers raided agricultural land in Ras Al-Deir Ariya , Yitma , and severed the branches from approximately 40 olive trees . Over the period , there were many more acts of Israeli Occupation violence and population control , including the seizure of water pipelines in the al-Buqa'a area of the Jordan Valley . <p> On 20 May , one person was wounded as Israeli troops , firing live ammunition , raided Tubas . At 2am , Israelis from the Rahalim Occupation settlement , stoned the home of Mohammad Jasser Snoubar in Yitma village , attacking the family andseverely injuring two people . On 21 May , stone-throwing settlers injured four more people and other Israelis set fire to Palestinian olive and almond trees . On 22 May , Israeli settlers beat up and hospitalised two farm workers , others set fire to Palestinian crops , and the Israeli Army set fire to approximately 120 more Palestinian olive trees . On 23 May , Israelis , armed with metal bars , beat and hospitalised two villagers . The next day saw more beatings and agricultural sabotage ( including arson ) by Israel settlers . On 24 May , Israeli forces raided Za'tara village , just before 2am , and destroyed a tent dwelling , the home of a villager , Hazem Hashem Abu Mohammad . They also destroyed a livestock shelter . Israeli settlers in Jerusalem beat up and hospitalised two residents , Ashraf Al-Shweiki and Dalia Al-Nimri , while in Shuafat village , settler militants assaulted several farmers and severed the limbs off several olive trees . In the evening , a gang , from the Havat Ma'on Israeli Occupation settlement , set fire to wheat and barley crops on land between the villages of Tuba and al-Tuwani.On 25 May , there were two Israeli Gaza ceasefire violations , Israeli settlers uprooted 200 Palestinian olive trees and drove a vehicle into a herd of goats . Since 13 May , Israeli troops have abducted 14 Palestinian minors , the youngest aged 14 . <p> Israel 's Occupation exploitation of Palestinian water resources is a war crime thatalso has a relevance closer to home . On 21 May , The Palestine Solidarity Network Aotearoa ( PSNA ) posted an article on The Daily Blog revealing that New Zealand had quietly signed a Technical , Innovation , Research and Development Agreement with Israel , without publicising it . PSNA 's National Chair , John Minto , noted the fact that , " Normally a major bilateral deal would involve photo opportunities at Parliament and press releases . On this occasion , with the Israelis , nothing . " While MFAT and the mainstream news media remained quiet , the Ministry of Business Innovation and Employment did publish a noticeabout it on 5 March . <p> The main publicity , however , came from the One Community Web Portal for the NZ Jewish Communityand theIsraeli Embassy . The Israeli Embassy celebrated the signing , noting that Dr Gerberghad told the Australia Israel Review : " the relationship with New Zealandis good but there 's room for improvement " . He also said : " Most people understand that Israel is in a very problematic area and that when dealing with Israel it 's important to understand that context . People also realise that Israel is a sophisticated and advanced country , and there tends to be great admiration for Israel 's military and technical achievements . " <p> One Community also published an account of the signing by NZ Minister , MeganWoods , reporting The New Zealand Ministry of Business , Innovation &amp; Employment ( MBIE ) international science partnerships manager , Simon Rae , as sayingIsrael has key capabilities in agritech , water management and other areas of interest to New Zealand , adding that a closer partnership with Israel will provide real opportunities for New Zealand firms . That closer partnership has already benefitted the Israeli company Netafim which is closely aligned with the Zionist enterprise . <p> Simon Rae 's recommendation , that New Zealand partner with Israel in water management , lacks any humanitarian recognition of the Zionist state 's criminal exploitation of water seized from OccupiedPalestine . Cruellyexcluding nearby Palestinian communities suffering water shortages , one current example is the Bardalawater bypass project . Partnered by Israeli and international private corporations , the project aims to supply **25;952;TOOLONG settlements with water plundered from Occupied territory . <p> Netafimprofits further from the commercialisation of military knowledge , derived from the experience gained in the fusion of military and civil enterprises . The company 's command and control software , developed specifically for the Israeli Iron Dome air defence system exemplifies theprofit potential of making available to the agritech markettechnology developed , as in this case , forthe blockade of Gaza . Netafim 's complicity in the Israeli settlement enterprise and Occupation economy means it is party to a wantonly-induced scarcity of water and land for Palestinian agriculture . The Israeli military ensures virtually limitless access to water for settlement agriculture and domestic use and , while Netafim provides Israeli farmers with smart irrigation systems , nearby Palestinian communities , prevented from developing their own water resources and infrastructure , are forced to purchase water from the Israeli state-owned Mekorot -- at rates determined by the Israeli Occupation . <p> IrrigationNZ , Netafim and the National Party <p> IrrigationNZ is a group of corporate entities that describes itself thus : " INZ is a national membership organisation that looks after the interests of irrigating farmers , growers and the industry professionals that service them . " Netafim is a member of INZ . In a Press Release on 25 May , INZ congratulated National MP , David Bennett , for being handed the agricultural portfolio from the previous holder and new National Party leader , Todd Muller . Elizabeth Soal , IrrigationNZ 's Chief Executive , commented , " We have worked closely with Todd since he took over the agricultural portfolio , and we congratulate him on his new role as leader of the National Party , alongside his deputy Nikki Kaye . " <p> Resist pro-Israel corporate and Zionist influence <p> The Israeli Ambassador 's presumption of " great admiration for Israel 's military and technical achievements " reflects something deeply-seated in Zionist thinking . For Israel , the combination of technology and militarism afford superiority and the opportunity for material gain over others . Yet still , both within and outside New Zealand Government circles , those who would tie our country closer to Israel would do so quietly and with circumspection . In the spirit of UN Security Council Resolution 2334 , they must be challenged and called to account . <p> Leslie Bravery is a Londoner with vivid World War Two memories of the Nazi blitz on his home town . In 1947/1948 His father explained to him what was happening to the Palestinians thus : " Any ideology or political movement that creates refugees in the process of realising its ambitions must be inhuman and should be opposed and condemned as unacceptable . " What followed confirmed this assessment of the Zionist entity a hundredfold . Now a retired flamenco guitarist , with a lifelong interest in the tragedy of what happened to the Palestinian people , he tries to publicise their plight . Because the daily injustices they suffer barely get a mention in the mainstream news media , Leslie edits/compiles a daily newsletter , In Occupied Palestine , for the Palestine Human Rights Campaign . These days , to preserve his sanity , he enjoys taking part in a drama group whenever possible ! <h> STAY CONNECTED <p> Launched on Friday 1 March , 2013 , the ' TheDailyBlog.co.nz ' unites New Zealand 's leading left/centre-left commentators and progressive opinion shapers to provide the other side of the story on today 's news , media and political agendas. 
@@31870387 <h> GUEST BLOG : Lois Griffiths -- MIDNIGHT ON THE MAVI MARAMA <p> May 31 , 2010 should be remembered as a ' day of infamy ' , the day when a convoy of aid ships , led by the large Turkish passenger ferry Mavi Marama , was violently attacked in the middle of the night , ininternational waters , by heavily armed Israeli commandoes from helicopters and from Zodiac gunboats . <p> There were 581 passengers on board , of 32 nationalities , hoping to break the illegal maritine siege on Gaza and deliver desperately needed aid . <p> Nine of the passengers were killed outright , many more were wounded . Eight Turkish citizens and a 19-year old Turkish-American were killed outright . <p> TDB Recommends NewzEngine.com <p> This incident should be part of our collective memory instead of disappearing into Orwell 's memory hole . At lease one film , ' The Truth : Lost at Sea ' , has been made . <p> I am relying on the book Midnight on the Mavi Marmara , edited by Moustafa Bayoumi , published by Haymarket Books . If it is not in your public library , you can ask them to order it . It would useful for support groups to have a copy to share . <p> Eye-witness accounts are harrowing . <p> The Swedish writer , the late Henning Mankell was on board . " 04:30 Suddenly there is the sound of gunfire . So now , I know that Israel has chosen the route of brutal confrontation . In international waters , .. we gather up on the bridge , .. a man is shot , I am seeing this happen . " <p> Film maker Iara Lee reported , " I am a dual US-Brazilian citizen of Korean descent . I am a film maker and a human rights activist , .. When the Zodiacs came and surrounded us and their helicopters began sending commandos down , it was chaos . The women were told to go downstairs . I feared for the lives of my fellow passengers as I heard shots being fired on deck . I was very concerned about my cameraman and friends , so I went up to see what was happening .... I had expected soldiers to shoot in the air or aim at people 's legs , but instead I saw the bodies of people who appeared to have been shot multiple times in the head or chest . " <p> Kevin Overden , UK activst , journalist explained , " It began with percussion grenades . They are explosives , they can injure people badly when they go off next to them . They were designed to create panic when you consider that this was a civilian passenger ship carrying over 500 people from 32 different nationalities . ... We heard the different noise of live rounds being fired , but not indiscriminately or wildly . Rather it was carefully targeted from both sides of the ship , which was surrounded , from the helicopter , from those Israeli attack forces who were landing on the ship itself . " <p> Midnight on the Mavi Marama contains not just eye-witness reports from passengers . The book also includes many contributions from journalists , activists , scholars discussing the background to today 's Middle East , including Gaza of course . Among the commentators , are some well-known in the West : Noam Chomsky , Gideon Levy , Alice Walker , Sara Roy , Amira Hass , Neve Gorden , Max Blumenthal , Glenn Greenwald , Juan Cole , Norman Finkelstein . <p> Writers discuss , among other points , the ability of the Israeli regime to promote its version of events both to the Israeli public and to overseas media outlets . The official Israeli line is that the passengers were violent ' terrorists ' with links to al Qaeda . The IDF commandos were innocent victims , lucky to get out alive . <p> American journalist Max Blumental just happened to have arrived in Israel the day after the flotilla raid . " The IDF 's Spokeman 's Office churned out one misleading claim after another , each one more implausible than the next , seeking to implant in the public 's mind a vesion of events that bore little realition to reality ... It was startling to see how some of Israel 's most respected reporters lined up to serve as military stenographers , barely challenging the IDF 's rapidly changing versions of events . IDFclaims about the flotilla passengers ' links to Al Qaeda , anti-Semitic statements shouted at the Israeli Navy , and terrorists intentions were eagerly broadcast by the Israeli media without a second thought . When independent reporters forced the IDF to retract or ' clarify ' all of these claims , the Israel news outlets refused to correct their errors . " <p> The IDF claims that the passengers were violent , the Israeli Navy was only acting in self-defense . <p> Californian piano-tuner Paul Larudee responds , " Self-defense is for those who are being attacked , not those who are attacking . Furthermore there were no arms of any kind aboard our humanitarian aid ships .... If the attackers of our ships had been Iranian , would anyone be making the absurd excuses we are now hearing for Israeli actions ? " <p> Some passengers did put up with a defence when their ship was attacked . <p> Ken O'Keefe , ex-US marine who relinguished his US citizenship and became an Irish national , relates , " On the morning of the attack , I was directly involved in the disarming of 2 Israeli commandos . .. I knew the commandoes were murdering people when I removed a 9 mm pistol from one of them ... I took that weapon away , removed the bullets , proper lead bullets , separated them from the weapon and hid the gun .... I also helped to physically separate one commando from his assault rifle which another brother apparently threw into the sea . " <p> The Israeli attackers were vicious . Autopies later revealed details of execution style killing . The Guardian reported , for instance , that 19-year old Furkan Dogan was shot 4 times from less than 45 cm , in the face , in the back of the head , twice in the leg and once in the back , " . <p> He was an American , born in New York State . Yet the US Government took no action against Israel . <p> Does this not send a message to the Israeli regime that they have a free hand from the US to do anything they want , even murder Americans ? <p> There is a New Zealand connection to the story of the attack on the Mavi Marama . One of the passengers was Cantabrian Nicki Enchmarch , of the ' Viva Palestina ' campaign . Kevin Overden reported , " She was next to one of the very first people to be killed . He was a Turkish man who was holding a camera , that 's all he had in his hands . He was shot directly through the center of the forehead . " <p> Kevin Overden summarized . " This was an attempt to instill fear , to use terror to achieve a political objective . This is the dictionary definition of terrorism . Real terrorism , state terrorism , by Israel . " <p> Yet , on spite of the lies , in spite of the violence , there have , since 2010 , been more attempts to break the barbaric siege imposed on Gaza . There may even be another Freedom Flotilla later this year . <p> The siege will be broken , not by governments but by people of consciece . <p> As Alice Walker , who , herself , has taken part in a Freedom Flotilla effort , explains ... <p> " I know that the people of the Freedom Flotilla are , were in some cases , some of the best people on earth . They have not stood idly by and watched the destruction of others .... We the people , who ultimately hold all the power ; We the people who must never forget to believe we can win .. It has always been about us , as we watch governments come and go . It always will be . " <h> 1 COMMENT <p> Entitled by the brutality of human disgrace against the Jewish , which unfortunately is one among others in history , the Israelis add to the list . When there is a government which does not care about humanity and keeps in place others within the same mindset , the world moves away from its potential as most intelligent animals . Brute force seeks to bolster itself with weapons that expand its capacity . Cunning becomes a virtue against viciousness . <p> We now in a negative time of civilisation , have to set aside our vainglory in human intelligence , ideals and morals , and perhaps look at how animals cope with their conflicts -- look for simpler approaches . What would religion have us do also ? <h> STAY CONNECTED <p> Launched on Friday 1 March , 2013 , the ' TheDailyBlog.co.nz ' unites New Zealand 's leading left/centre-left commentators and progressive opinion shapers to provide the other side of the story on today 's news , media and political agendas. 
