@@41958524 <h> Noam Chomsky on Covid-19 , WHO , China , Gaza and global capitalism <p> Chomsky responds to President Trump 's cuts to US support for the World Health Organization and the surge in deaths in the US to another record high , and discusses conditions in Gaza , the rise of authoritarianism around the world , and the progressive response . <p> " This is typical behavior of autocrats and dictators . When you make colossal errors which are killing thousands of people , find somebody else to blame , " say Chomsky . " In the United States , it 's unfortunately the case , for well over a century , century and a half , that it 's always easy to blame the ' yellow peril ' . " <p> ( Visited 180 times , 1 visits today ) <p> Thanks for dropping by ! The views expressed in Aliran 's media statements and the NGO statements we have endorsed reflect Aliran 's official stand . Views and opinions expressed in other pieces published here do not necessarily reflect Aliran 's official position . <p> Our voluntary writers work hard to keep these articles free for all to read . But we do need funds to support our struggle for Justice , Freedom and Solidarity . To maintain our editorial independence , we do not carry any advertisements ; nor do we accept funding from dubious sources . If everyone reading this was to make a donation , our fundraising target for the year would be achieved within a week . So please consider making a donation to Persatuan Aliran Kesedaran Negara , CIMB Bank account number 8004240948. 
@@41981978 <h> Genocide and ethnic cleansing in Sri Lanka <p> Countless innocent Tamil lives were lost in the wanton and indiscriminate aerial bombardment of the Tamil areas , reports the World Tamil Relief Fund . <p> The first victim of Sri Lankan government 's ethnic cleansing were the Indian Tamils , brought in by the British more than a hundred years earlier to establish the plantation industry in Sri Lanka . The labourers were sent to clear malaria-infested jungles to start these plantations and , in the process , a high proportion of them succumbed to diseases . Within two years of independence the survivors were disfranchised and made stateless . Most of them were repatriated to India . <p> The passing of the ' Sinhala Only ' act of 1955 set in motion a process that would make the Tamils , who had been living in their homeland in the north-east of the island for more than 2,500 years , second-class citizens . Successive state sponsored riots from 1956 to 1983 sent more than a million Tamils out of the Sinhalese as well as their Tamil homeland as refugees the world over , including the United States . <p> Cultural genocide <p> Support the struggle to build a New Malaysia based on Justice , Freedom , Solidarity : <p> Depriving Tamil children of their education and the burning of the Jaffna Library , which was a repository of the culturall heritage of the Tamils , constituted cultural genocide . A Tamil child had to obtain higher grades to seek admission into any seat of higher learning . Bombing of schools and other educational institutions in Tamil areas was a deliberate attempt by the Sinhala government to obliterate the intelligentsia , quite reminiscent of Pol Pot 's regime in Cambodia . <p> All attempts by the elected Tamil representatives to negotiate an agreement with the Sinhalese leadership came to naught . The **26;1421;TOOLONG Pact of 1957 and the Senanayake-Chelvanayakam Pact of 1965 were signed to seek a solution to the ethnic problem . On account of the pressure from the opposition leaders , who led the Sinhalese masses against these pacts , both these pacts were abrogated unceremoniously by the Sinhalese leadership . Peaceful protests , that followed , were broken up and crushed by Sinhalese thugs and police . <p> Frustrated and disillusioned the Tamil party , Tamil United Front , met at Vaddukkodai under their veteran leader , Chelvanayakam , and reconstituted their party under the name , Tamil United Liberation Front . In their first convention on 14 May 1976 , they passed a resolution to create a separate State of Tamil Eelam . This was the beginning of their quest for separation . <p> Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam <p> Meanwhile the impatient Tamil youths , who were disappointed with the slow process of the negotiations , opted to take up arms to fight for their rights . Thus the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam ( LTTE ) emerged in the late seventies . <p> Velupillai Prabhakaran , the leader of the LTTE , who led the resistance against Sri Lankan opression , was always mindful of the fact that seeking a military solution would only aggravate the sufferings of the civilians . He made every effort to seek a political settlement that would enable the Tamils to live in a confederate state , if not an independent one , in peace , dignity , security and progress . With this in mind he entered into ceasefire agreement twice ; once in 1994 and again in February , 2002 . His efforts came to naught , as the Sri Lankan government used the ceasefire to strengthen itself and at an appropriate time broke it . <p> The policy of successive Sinhalese governments had been to impose a settlement on the Tamils that would reduce them to a state of second class citizens . To date the Sri Lankan Government has not produced any meaningful solution to the ethnic crisis , and this has brought untold sufferings to the Tamils and destruction of their properties and livelihood . <p> The economic embargo imposed by the Sinhala government further exacerbated the hardships faced by the Tamils . Food , medical aid and other essentials were denied even to the sick in the hospital . Prolonged enforcement of this embargo , coupled with the miseries of the war , brought untold sufferings to the civil population . Patients , who were transferred to main hospitals for emergency surgery , were prevented from doing so . This is a violation of Geneva Convention . <p> Norwegian-brokered ceasefire <p> When the Norwegians brokered the Ceasefire Agreement of February 2002 , the Tamils expressed a sigh of relief , as this would address their daily existential problems . Unfortunately , agreements reached at the negotiating table could not be implemented and the Norwegian negotiators made strenuous efforts to get both the warring parties to reach a settlement . The Tamil negotiator , Anton Balasingham , tried his utmost to reach a settlement that would bring immediate relief to the civilians . He even renounced the Tamil desire for a separate state . <p> The December 2004 tsunami brought a window of opportunity for the three communities to cooperate . Although most of the victims were Tamils and Muslims , the Sinhalese were also affected . Food , medicine and tents sent in by the overseas Tamil Diaspora to their brethens in Sri Lanka were prevented from reaching the victims and were distributed among the Sinhalese or turned up in the black market in Colombo . <p> The Sri Lankan government took advantage of the 9/11 tragedy and the US government 's policy on the war on terror ' to list the LTTE as a terrorist group . This excuse was used to get aid and armaments . Instead of continuing with the momentum of the peace initiative , the Sinhala Government unilaterally terminated the ceasefire in January 2008 and launched an all out military offensive to bring the conflict to an end . <p> Countless innocent Tamil lives were lost in the wanton indiscriminate bombardment of the Tamil areas . Thousands of civilians lost their homes and became displaced refugees in their own country . These innocent people are not combatants in the conflict . Sri Lanka is the only country in the world that bombs and maims its own citizens . <p> Freedom fighters , not terrorists <p> The fact is Tamil freedom fighters are not terrorists although they might have retaliated in Colombo for attacks on their homeland . It is the Stri Lankan regime that used inhuman methods of torture , indiscriminate shooting , mass arrests , rape of peasant women and girls . Richard Boucher had accepted that LTTE was not exporting terrorism and was not a threat to any foreign government . <p> " The most problematic issue relating to terrorism and armed conflict is distinguishing terrorists from lawful combatants " emphasised UN Special Rapporteur , Kalliopi K Koufa . You have also acknowledged that painting all libration groups with the same brush was not helpful in solving problems . <p> Wayne Madsen , an on-line journal contributing writer has highlighted the danger of regimes using the anti-terror slogan to suppress genuine freedom fights , such as the one the LTTE has been waging against with the Sri Lankan regime . " Forces of repression have been emboldened by this new global context . The language of anti-terrorism has been used to smear and justify violating the rights of ordinary political opponents . " This is precisely what has happened in Sri Lanka . <p> The year 2008 brought nothing but misery to the Tamils . Their agriculture , farming , fishing and other economic activities were purposely wrecked by the army . Their homes , built by them with their life 's savings , were bombed under the guise of flushing out the LTTE . It was reported in a Tamil daily that 57,000 houses had been damaged in Kilinochchi alone . <p> Consequently , the Tamil population had been reduced to the status of beggars who depended on relief aid from the UN and other NGOs from countries that are sympathetic to the Tamils . Even these NGOs , other than the Red Cross , are barred from the war zones of Vanni and Mullaithevu , further aggravating the plight of the refugees . <p> Bring an end to misery <p> We humbly request that the new administration in the United States , which is committed to change , to do all within its power to find a speedy resolution to the conflict and bring an end to the misery and suffering of the Tamils , and put them on the path to peace , progress and prosperity . We request the following : <p> * Start a process through international organisations , such as the UN , to declare a ceasefire between the warring parties to facilitate the movement of food and medicine to the exhausted and desperate victims . <p> * The year 2009 commemorates the 60th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights . It is therefore all the more imperative to examine the human rights violations , which are well documented in Sri Lanka and bring the culprits to justice . Also , a political solution must be found to the conflict , so that the right to self determination of the Sri Lankan Tamils can be firmly established . <p> * As in Kosovo and East Timor , start a process to examine a system that would give the minorities the right to govern themselves . The Tamils have exhausted all avenues of negotiating a settlement with the Sinhalese . In a referendum 90 per cent of them opted for a separate state . In any case , the Tamils lived in their own kingdom all throughout history , until in 1833 when the British brought them under one roof for administrative purposes . Restoration of that status quo should be in order . <p> Today the Sri Lankan Tamils are international orphans . In addition to the deaths of 100,000 Tamils , the war has created 30,000 widows and 20,000 orphans . Geopolitical priorities of the International Community and India has brought them to this state . The deafening silence of the International Community , including the United Nations is baffling and imcomprehensible , especially when there is such a hue and cry internationally over the Israeli bombing in Gaza . In the case of Gaza , it can be argued , the Palestinian rocket attacks on Israel prompted Israeli bombings . In Sri Lanka President Rajapaksa starting the war was totally unprovoked . <p> The Tamils and also the LTTE have always longed for peace . We only want a place under the sun to live in peace and happiness . Many US officials in the past have accepted the fact that the only ideology the LTTE fights for is to be masters of their own destiny . As we had been in the past , we would continue to be honest friends of the United States . Sooner rather than later , the Tamils will have to seek US protection . <p> The Tamils stand has always been that " fighting for survival , dignity and self respect is not terrorism " . <p> The cost to the civilians has been documented as follows : <p> * over 100,000 Tamils have been killed* over 28,000 Tamils have disappeared* over 12,600 Tamil girls and women have been raped* over 30,000 women widowed* over 20,000 children orphaned* over 1.2 million Tamils have been displaced ( internally and externally ) * over eight billion USD worth of property owned by Tamils has been destroyed <p> ( Visited 150 times , 1 visits today ) <p> Thanks for dropping by ! The views expressed in Aliran 's media statements and the NGO statements we have endorsed reflect Aliran 's official stand . Views and opinions expressed in other pieces published here do not necessarily reflect Aliran 's official position . <p> Our voluntary writers work hard to keep these articles free for all to read . But we do need funds to support our struggle for Justice , Freedom and Solidarity . To maintain our editorial independence , we do not carry any advertisements ; nor do we accept funding from dubious sources . If everyone reading this was to make a donation , our fundraising target for the year would be achieved within a week . So please consider making a donation to Persatuan Aliran Kesedaran Negara , CIMB Bank account number 8004240948. 
@@42004058 <h> Virus lockdowns stifle Eid celebrations as infections rise <p> Saudis shop at the Panorama Mall in the capital Riyadh on May 22 , 2020 , as Muslims prepare to celebrate the upcoming Eid al-Fitr , that marks the end of the fasting month of Ramadan . -- AFP <p> RIYADH : Muslims around the world began marking a sombre Eid al-Fitr Sunday , many under coronavirus lockdown , but lax restrictions offered respite to worshippers in some countries despite fears of skyrocketing infections . <p> The three-day festival , which marks the end of the holy month of Ramadan , is traditionally celebrated with mosque prayers , family feasts and shopping for new clothes , gifts and sweet treats . <p> But this year , the celebration is overshadowed by the fast-spreading coronavirus , with many countries tightening lockdown restrictions after a partial easing during Ramadan led to a sharp spike in infections . <p> Further dampening the festive spirit , many countries -- from Saudi Arabia to Egypt , Turkey and Syria -- have banned mass prayer gatherings to limit the spread of the disease . <p> Saudi Arabia , home to Islam 's holiest sites , began a five-day round-the-clock curfew from Saturday after infections more than quadrupled since the start of Ramadan to over 70,000 -- the highest in the Gulf . <p> Mecca 's Grand Mosque has been almost devoid of worshippers since March , with a stunning emptiness enveloping the sacred Kaaba -- the large cube-shaped structure towards which Muslims around the world pray . <p> But on Sunday , an imam stood on a podium while Saudi security forces , some wearing masks , positioned themselves between rows of worshippers who gathered before the Kaaba for Eid prayers . <p> Scuffles in Jerusalem <p> At Jerusalem 's Al-Aqsa mosque , Islam 's third-holiest site after Mecca and Medina , prayers were not permitted inside , although the site is expected to reopen after the Eid holiday . <p> At dawn , small scuffles broke out between Israeli security forces and worshippers gathering around the mosque , although prayers eventually went ahead outside , an AFP photographer said . <p> In Gaza , Hamas authorities allowed prayers in mosques despite the enclave 's first coronavirus death on Saturday , but worshippers mostly wore masks and placed their prayer mats far apart . <p> " Eid is not Eid with the atmosphere of corona -- people feel a sense of fear , " worshipper Akram Taher said . <p> In Afghanistan , the Taliban announced a three-day ceasefire to mark Eid al-Fitr in a surprise move following months of bloody fighting with Afghan forces after the signing of a landmark agreement with the United States . <p> The streets of Kabul were mostly empty as part of a strict lockdown , but some people did venture out and greet each other -- some from a distance and others hugging and shaking hands despite calls for social distancing . <p> Fears of ' new peak ' <p> Muslims across Asia -- from Indonesia to Pakistan , Malaysia and Afghanistan -- have thronged markets for Eid shopping , flouting coronavirus guidelines and sometimes even police attempts to disperse large crowds . <p> " For over two months my children were homebound , " said mother of four Ishrat Jahan at a bustling market in the Pakistani city of Rawalpindi . <p> " This feast is for the kids , and if they ca n't celebrate it with new garments , there is no point in us working so hard throughout the year . " <p> The holiday began on a sombre note after a Pakistan International Airline flight crashed Friday in the southern city of Karachi , killing 97 people including many who were travelling to see family for the holiday . <p> The English daily Dawn said the crash , along with the pandemic , had robbed Pakistan of " whatever little joy had been left at the prospect of Eid festivities " . <p> In Indonesia -- the world 's most populous Muslim nation -- people have turned to smugglers and fake travel documents to get around bans on the annual end-of-Ramadan travel that could send infections soaring . <p> In the conservative province of Aceh , large groups prayed together with few masks and little social distancing , and the Baiturrahman Grand Mosque in the provincial capital was packed . <p> " I did feel worried but as a Muslim , I still had to perform mass Eid prayers as a form of gratitude to Allah , " one worshipper , Arsi , said . <p> COVID-19 death tolls across the Middle East and Asia have been lower than in Europe and the United States , but numbers are rising steadily , sparking fears the virus may overwhelm often underfunded healthcare systems . <p> - Frugal celebrations - <p> Iran , which has experienced the Middle East 's deadliest outbreak , has called on its citizens to avoid travel during Eid as it battles to control infection rates . <p> Health Minister Saeed Namaki said the country was focusing hard on avoiding " new peaks of the disease " caused by people " not respecting health regulations " . <p> The United Arab Emirates has tightened its lockdown which had been relaxed during Ramadan , but that has not stopped some families from planning getaways to luxury beachfront hotels . <p> However , Muslims in many countries are set for frugal celebrations amid growing financial distress . <p> The twin shocks of coronavirus restrictions and falling oil prices have plunged the Gulf region into the worst economic crisis in decades . <p> The lockdowns have hit businesses hard , including retailers who would normally be preparing for the festive rush , as Muslims save their money for masks , gloves and other COVID-19 protective gear . <p> In the Syrian capital Damascus , Eid shoppers rummaged through flea markets for clothes at bargain prices as the war-ravaged and sanctions-hit country grapples with a much more entrenched economic crisis . <p> " The flea market is the only place I can buy something new to wear for the Eid holidays , " 28-year-old Sham Alloush said . <p> " Had it not been for this place , I would n't have been able to buy new clothes at all . " -- AFP 
