@@71939741 <h> A novel of its time <p> On one hand , there is nothing especially novel in the books she has written when it comes to plot/theme ( a love affair threatening to ruin a friendship in Conversations with Friends , a " Langit ka , lupa ako " situation in Normal People ) . On the other , there are some new things in them : in the first , the love affair is actually a m ? nage ? quatre involving a lesbian relationship . <p> Rooney 's hyperarticulate characters are wont to aver such pronouncements as , " No one who likes Yeats is capable of emotional intimacy " ( Conversations with Friends ) , or " Time consists of physics , money is just a social construct " ( Normal People ) . Her plots ' underlying impulse is from the 19th century -- I half-expected someone to say something like " She was wont to aver such-and-such . " <p> But what is remarkable about " the great millennial novelist " is that she has performed the feat of bringing the way we currently write text messages and e-mails to the novel : her prose is terse and clear and uncomplicated and does n't aspire to poetic fancies . However , it manages at times to be simultaneously so ambiguous it 's as if , unaccompanied by an emoji , her characters ' declarations or opinions could be interpreted as either awestruck or mocking , serious or jocular . ( You do not break up via SMS obsolescent or the myriad messaging platforms we now have . With or without an emoji . ) One writer calls it the Internet Voice . <p> Normal People opens with the delineation between the classes to which our protagonists belong . Lorraine , Connell 's mother , is shown cleaning the mansion of Marianne , the rich but unpopular girl suspected to be mentally ill by her high-school classmates who bully her . Smart and well-read , she sees school as an " oppressive environment , " where a teacher calls her out for inattentiveness , to whom she snaps back , " Do n't delude yourself , I have nothing to learn from you . " ( Digression : I know of someone in college who walked out on a dull professor , saying , " I am not growing in this class . " She became a professor herself . ) <p> Equally smart and well-read , Connell belongs to that rare species in school : the nerdy jock . Unlike Marianne , he 's popular and seems well-adjusted . They awkwardly get together and become unavowed fuck buddies , not an official item . They ignore each other in school as if afternoons never see them exploring each other 's bodies with the savage lust of hormone-raging teenagers . They do n't define their relationship except that it should be kept under wraps . Connell does n't immediately disclose why he did n't ask Marianne to the Debs ( the Irish version of prom ) but they will discuss it , however elliptically , years later . They break up for the first time . During college , Connell puts off presenting the idea of moving in together , eventually causing their umpteenth break-up by then . There are so many things unsaid in this novel and I suppose this is also why Rooney is celebrated . The silences are as much part of the novel as the expositions . I suppose this is also why she 's been compared with Jenny Offill ( read between the lines ) and Rachel Cusk ( nothing outwardly happens but something somehow has ) . <p> Still later , tables turn . Marianne proves to be this cosmopolitan girl liked by many , lusted for by men , but unsure of what to do with her life . Privilege and adulation have made her oblivious to the fact that there 's life after college . Connell becomes the misfit , the outsider , whose relationships are vapid because of Marianne 's shadow . Then he gets medicated for depression . <p> Rooney peppers the book with protests ( the war in Gaza , for instance , is casually mentioned ) and other newsworthy events but never really commits to them . Maybe she merely wants to display her political leanings or to be perceived as au courant . Maybe she feels that her book 's sexual politics are too parochial and that world politics can make it less narcissistic . How people get labeled as " damaged " and yearn to be " normal " is somewhat disappointingly glossed over -- there are conversations about childhood physical abuse , fraternal bullying , noncommittal sadomasochism , suicide , etc. , but all this is eclipsed by the lovers ' weird chemistry . An early distasteful character vaguely matures and apologizes in the end but it feels a bit staged . <p> Both of Rooney 's novels are set in Trinity College , Dublin . If she sets her third book there once more , she should call them The Trinity Trilogy . ( The Trinity Trinity ? ) <p> Recommended for people who want to know how depression diagnoses are started with a questionnaire . <p> ( Side note : In a recent pedantic essay , Joseph Epstein wrote that contemporary novels have killed the art form because , among other , more supercilious reasons , they have stopped discovering " the inner lives of men and women in their engagement with the larger society in which they live out their days . " Why this condescending homophobic bigot still has a publishing career is beyond me : I should stop getting deceived by clickbait . Let me tell you , Mr. **45;2134;TOOLONG ... the novel is still alive and well and ambitious as ever . Ms. Rooney 's might not pass your ridiculously blinkered standards but it is a novel still , one that captures her generation 's dialect and zeitgeist , aiming to cross certain social categories and constructs. ) 
