@@61831420 <p> While the richest in countries across the globe have access to healthcare and cash to get by , most of humanity faces the COVID-19 crisis with neither . Pre-COVID-19 , one in two people struggled daily to survive , and Oxfam 's recent research shows that the economic fallout from the pandemic could push half a billion more people into poverty -- setting the fight against poverty back by up to 30 years in some parts of the world . Not only will this make it more difficult to rebuild post-virus , it will also greatly reduce poorer countries ' ability to respond to climate change . <p> As a movement that fights inequality to end poverty and injustice in more than 90 countries , Oxfam is doing its part to tackle the virus . Our work on the frontlines of crises , on public health and tackling diseases like Ebola gives us insight on how to avert catastrophe . Sometimes the technology needed is as simple as operational taps to provide clean , safe water , soap to prevent spread , or a messaging alert system to ensure accurate and timely information reaches people . <p> #COVID19 highlights how the unfair burden left to women in the best of times , grows only heavier in times of crisis . Women at the frontlines -- in hospitals , care homes , supermarkets &amp; living rooms are some of the most vulnerable to the impact of this virushttps : **34;240;TOOLONG ... With our local partners and our expertise in water , sanitation and public health promotion , we are mobilising worldwide -- from refugee camps in Bangladesh and Yemen to the most vulnerable communities in Italy and Gaza -- to deliver clean water , soap , protective equipment and public health information -- all vital tools to prevent and slow the spread of this virus . <p> We are also working to meet acute needs , prevent people going hungry , counter increasing gender-based violence as well as getting cash to the hands of people most in need . It is our priority to support the most vulnerable -- particularly women and girls , the elderly , people living with disabilities and children . <p> " Living here in the camps , everything gives us diseases . The camp infects everyone with diseases , and I have no money to see a doctor . We must sit and bear it and suffer without any medication . We have no means to go see the doctor even when we are sick . " <p> Rohingya woman , 28 years old <p> Rohingya people fled horrific violence in Myanmar in 2017 to the safety of Cox 's Bazar , Bangladesh -- now home to sprawling refugee camps where one million Rohingya refugees live . <p> The impending monsoon season could devastate these camps , and now , COVID-19 could devastate the community living within them . <p> Oxfam sees first-hand the extremely limited access to health care and other essential services people have , as well as the underlying health challenges they face , from chronic malnutrition to cramped living conditions in inadequate shelters . All of these factors could significantly worsen if there is a COVID-19 outbreak . In the camps , basic preventative measures , such as social distancing and self-isolation , remain impossible -- with ten or more family members often living in a single shelter that measures about nine by five foot . <p> Another concern that could significantly worsen the spread of the COVID-19 virus is the shutdown of internet services . Unlike most places in 2020 , where we can check our mobile phones for immediate information about the virus , how to prevent it and what to do if you feel ill , Rohingya refugees have experienced the shutdown of internet services on both sides of the border . <p> Oxfam has urgently scaled up its humanitarian efforts in the Rohingya camps in Cox 's Bazar , not only because of COVID-19 , but also the impending monsoon season which will bring with it further threats and challenges for the communities living there . We are providing vital aid , including clean water and latrines and are also working to improve camp infrastructure by installing flood-proof wells , better toilets and improved roads as well as having contingency plans in place to restore water supplies and distribute essential aid if needed once the monsoons strike . <p> The threat of COVID-19 is putting the human rights crisis faced by Rohingya people into sharper focus . It starkly shows how equal rights are central to ensuring each human life is valued and protected , whether it 's amid a pandemic or not . <p> Find out more <p> Refugee Camps : As Covid-19 continues its relentless spread , refugees at Za'atari mobilise to ensure accurate information is disseminated throughout the camp <p> " Some people thought flies could carry and transmit Covid-19 or that garlic , herbs and licorice-root tea could cure you of it ... Others asked whether it was just the elderly who were at risk . There were so many rumours circulating a few weeks ago that it was hard to tell what was true and what was n't , " explains Aysha , a Syrian refugee at Za'atari Refugee Camp in Jordan . <p> Aysha is one of hundreds of paid volunteers who are part of Oxfam 's cash for work programme designed to give people work opportunities , training , and a source of income . As one of 18 community engagement workers trained to mobilise , engage and raise awareness throughout the Za'atari community , her job is more important than ever . <p> The programme recognises and builds on existing skill-sets in a number of different areas that range from environmental caretakers and cleaners , community outreach workers , recycling workers and technical engineers . It was set up to fill a long-standing gap that made it difficult for refugees in the country -- especially women -- to access permits to work outside the camps . <p> " We 've created a number of different chat groups on various platforms to spread awareness on the virus , " Aysha says . <p> " We stop rumours in their tracks , answer questions , listen to concerns and steer people in the right direction about everything from hand washing and hygiene to physical distancing . We also make sure that people only share material from reliable and valid sources . " <p> Aysha describes the challenges of adjusting to these unprecedented times : " I lost my husband to the war . I 'm the one that takes care of the kids , our home and the one that works . The most important thing to me is my kid 's education . So , I 'm doing my best " , she says . <p> " My work means everything to me , it 's not just a livelihood opportunity or just a job , it has given me a sense of purpose , ownership and agency . It 's so gratifying to be able to help raise awareness and connect with the community in these times of need . " <p> Conflict : Trapped by the blockade , the people of Gaza can not escape COVID-19 <p> " People in confinement around the world are experiencing what it means to be Palestinian , to live under lockdown and movement restriction . There is a lot of empathy and we can only hope some good will come out of this once the storm has passed . " Mohammed Ammar , Oxfam 's Saving Lives Programme Manager in the Occupied Palestinian Territory and Israel <p> Pandemic or no pandemic , Gaza is already experiencing a dire humanitarian crisis . A 13-year-long blockade has devastated the economy , caused widespread destruction and left most people largely cut off from the outside world . <p> With more than 5,000 people per square kilometre , the besieged enclave is one of the most densely populated places on the planet . Residents have nowhere to go and no means of avoiding transmission . Poor water infrastructure also means that proper hand washing is often impossible . <p> In an area where one in eight people relies on life-saving aid , the virus would do untold damage to two million vulnerable people . Gaza is also dependent on Israel for critical medical cases , but the threat of COVID-19 has created a level of collaboration between Palestinians and Israelis that has rarely , if ever , been seen before . <p> " We are bracing ourselves for the worst . Hospitals and clinics face incredible challenges such as electricity , water , and equipment shortages due to very fragile conditions . There is an inadequate amount of Intensive Care Unit beds and ventilators for the population of two million in Gaza . More funds are urgently needed to respond to the worst-case scenario of a major outbreak that would bring Gaza 's health system to its knees . " Mohammed Ammar , Oxfam 's Saving Lives Programme Manager in the Occupied Palestinian Territory and Israel <p> As well as the health system implications , COVID-19 could further destroy the economy of Gaza , which already has an unemployment rate of 47 per cent . Small shops have shut their doors due to the crisis and business-owners have no income to pay their staff or provide for their own families . With movement restricted even more to prevent a further spread of the virus in Gaza , many families are already finding themselves unable to put food on the table . <p> With the support of Irish Aid , Oxfam Ireland mobilised to urgently respond to the threat of Covid-19 in Gaza . Oxfam are providing protection equipment for healthcare workers , beds for patients in quarantine centres , soap and other essential hygiene products . We are also providing hygiene kits to vulnerable families through our partner organisations . Our water engineers are ensuring public water taps used by the most vulnerable families can be used safely . With no other source of clean water , these families are most at risk of catching the virus . <p> Workers rights : How Dhaka 's Garment Workers are some of the hardest hit <p> " Brands and buyers are getting richer while we live in a cycle of poverty and our lives are stagnant . I hope things get better in the future " Labonie Akter lives in a Dhaka slum with her sister . Her husband is a rickshaw puller and lives in their original village with her son . Her son was four when she left and he is now 10 . <p> 83 per cent of Bangladesh 's total exports are ready-made garments , accounting for five per cent of the global garment trade -- and with an available , young , and cheap workforce Bangladesh is an attractive and competitive option for large western fashion brands . <p> There is an estimated four million garment workers in Bangladesh -- 80% of whom are women . Nine in 10 people working in this industry live in poverty earning an average salary of ? 24 a week or ? 4 a day , with some earning as little as ? 3 a day . <p> Much like other capital cities across the world , rents are high . Workers tend to share their living space -- often a single room -- with up to five other people . As COVID-19 infiltrates our towns and cities , this type of cohabitation now poses new challenges in containing spread and maintaining physical distance . <p> The Covid-19 pandemic has devastated the global garment supply chains , resulting in over one million garment workers being fired or furloughed in Bangladesh . All parties are feeling the impact of Covid-19 , however not all parties are equal . Factories operate on paper-thin margins and have far less access to capital than their customers , and workers very rarely earn enough to accumulate any savings . Due to order cancellation or postponement by big brands , workers have been told to return home with no money . <p> It is worth noting that three of the richest men in the fashion industry are worth over 100 billion dollars while the women at the bottom of the supply chain are paid a pittance . <p> " Death from Coronavirus is a maybe , but death from not earning is certain " . <p> Oxfam have a Living Wage campaign for women 's economic empowerment . Working with partners , including the Bangladesh Centre for Workers Solidarity and the Bangladesh Institute for Labour Studies , they work for decent employment , safe workplaces , a living wage and social protection . Most workers earn 8,300 Taka ( ? 90 ) per year , but need 16,000 Taka for a living wage -- which would cover basic needs such as food , health care , education , clothing and transport . <p> International pressure is helping and the government set up a special task force on wages . However , big brands should use their influence to ensure collective bargaining is respected and should invest a portion of their profits in improving the industry . <p> Currently , two per cent of the retail price of a typical garment goes to the women who make them -- less than one per cent of the production cost would do the right thing if brands absorbed it . We want brands to commit to a living wage and publish a timetable for a transparent supply chain . <p> Big brands have a responsibility for ensuring workers rights . <p> With each day , more of us are being personally affected by COVID-19 . In every family , community and country , wherever we may be , we know we must take care of each other . <p> There is opportunity in crisis -- the old , unequal way has been exposed . The foundations for our economies and our societies are now being restructured in response to COVID-19 -- when we overcome the pandemic we need to rebuild differently . <p> We have an opportunity to shift irreversibly towards a sustainable , more equal and human economy in which governments work for all of us -- not only the fortunate few -- and rise to confront global challenges like our climate emergency and gender inequality . <p> Oxfam is calling for a Global Public Health Plan and Emergency Response to save lives . We now need to deliver free testing and treatment to all , and to invest in public health systems and workers so we can to tackle this virus globally . We need an agreement to ensure vaccines will be rapidly available , for free , to all . And , we must urgently get support to local humanitarian responders tackling this crisis , most of whom are women . <p> Many governments are acting quickly , but within their borders . We know that only ambitious political action by governments -- acting together -- can overcome this crisis . We need them to scale up their response to levels never seen in our lifetimes by unleashing the largest ever-economic stimulus for people to help their families and small businesses through this crisis . Emergency solidarity taxes on big businesses and wealthy individuals could help pay for this . <p> Every government , institution and person must play its part and those with the broadest shoulders should bear most of the cost -- we need suspension and cancellation of poorer nations ' debt payments . <p> We 're indebted to all frontline workers -- health workers and humanitarians , carers , supermarket workers and neighbours -- and all those who we now rely upon to hold up our world . We 're in this together -- to stop a catastrophe and to shift irreversibly towards a sustainable , more equal and kinder world . <p> Most importantly , when we overcome the threat of COVID-19 , we need to mobilise the same level of political and public will and compassion to begin the process of rectifying the harm we have caused our planet and environment and kick start a future that offers hope for everyone . <p> Let 's hope that this pandemic marks a turning point and we move forward together to beat poverty and inequality , and for a sustainable and fair world for everyone woman , man and child . <p> You can save unwanted items to donate to their network of shops once they re-open -- your pre-loved clothes , books , furniture and bric-a-brac help raise vital funds that are a lifeline to some of the most vulnerable communities across the world , and also , by donating you save itemstrello from landfill , prolong their life and help both planet and people ! <p> FYI the ROI for you is =&gt; Irish Tech News now gets over 1.5 million monthly views , and up to 900k monthly unique visitors , from over 160 countries . We have over 860,000 relevant followers on Twitter on our various accounts &amp; were recently described as Ireland 's leading online tech news site and Ireland 's answer to TechCrunch , so we can offer you a good audience ! <p> Since introducing desktop notifications a short time ago , which notify readers directly in their browser of new articles being published , over 30,000 people have now signed up to receive them ensuring they are instantly kept up to date on all our latest content . Desktop notifications offer a unique method of serving content directly to verified readers and bypass the issue of content getting lost in people 's crowded news feeds . <p> Drop us a line if you want to be featured , guest post , suggest a possible interview , or just let us know what you would like to see more of in our future articles . We 're always open to new and interesting suggestions for informative and different articles . <p> Contact us , by email , twitter or whatever social media works for you and hopefully we can share your story too and reach our global audience . <p> Irish Tech News <p> If you would like to have your company featured in the Irish Tech News Business Showcase , get in contact with us at email protected or on Twitter : @SimonCocking 
@@61834770 <h> The Palestinian narrative does not share in the global prominence that Israeli or Western narratives enjoy , but one organisation is trying to change that through a digital campaign . <p> Digital diplomacy is the latest weapon at the Palestinians ' disposal to make their voices heard . <p> The Palestinian narrative has been systematically distorted since the loss of their homeland during the Nakba , 71 years ago . A few primary distortions are that historic Palestine was empty , the ongoing Palestinian-Israeli conflict is a religious one , or that Jordan was the true homeland of Palestinians . <p> Palestinians accuse some western media outlets of being biased in favour of Israel for their role in adapting the Israeli narrative and ignoring or giving very little attention to the grievances of Palestinians who have been living under military occupation and colonisation since 1947 . <p> Now to the internet and social media , the landscape of myths and fallacies can be altered . Palestinian citizen journalists and internet users in Gaza have started an online campaign to raise awareness , clarify and challenge certain ' facts ' , which they hope will put an end to the demonisation and dehumanisation of Palestinians who seek freedom . It 's an online battle to counter the Israeli narrative . <p> The chosen name for this campaign , which some describe as unprecedented , is Ihbid , which means " strike " in Arabic , referring to the combating misinformation . Campaigners leave large numbers of comments in English on specific Israeli and pro-Israeli Facebook pages and Twitter feeds . <p> They call themselves the Electronic Army of Habed and currently have around 33,000 followers on Facebook and over a thousand followers on Twitter . Their main hashtag is #Ihbid194 . The number references UN resolution 194 which calls for the Palestinian refugee right to return to where they were forcibly driven out by Zionist militias in 1948 . During that time Palestinians were massacred in an effort to de-populate , de-Arabise and de-Palestinise the historic land of Palestine . The other significance of the number is it is the membership number of Palestine at the UN . <p> One founder of the electronic army of Habed campaign told TRT World that they created several spare accounts in case their main page is taken down by Facebook , stating that they are being targeted now because of their rise to prominence for exposing Israeli crimes and atrocities against the Palestinian people . <p> On Nakba day campaigners left thousands of comments on Israeli embassy Facebook pages and embassies of countries that recognise Jerusalem as Israel 's capital . The founder of the campaigns claims that as a result of their posts the Israeli embassy in Washington and consulates in San Francisco and Miami removed posts celebrating Israel 's so-called independence day and Eurovision . <p> The ongoing electronic battle gained momentum following Israel 's offensive on Gaza early this month where at least 25 Palestinians were killed . <p> Another co-founder , Hassan Al Dawoody , and a researcher in digital diplomacy stated that the number of volunteers increases daily , and they can be classified into two groups ; one targets Israeli and pro-Israeli platforms using several languages , and the other group monitors and targets local Palestinian websites and accounts that stand against the general national Palestinian consensus ( advocating the use of ' Occupied Palestine ' for instance ) . <p> It is unconfirmed whether Habbeedah were responsible for hacking Israel 's webcast of the Eurovision Song Contest with animated images of explosions in the host city , Tel Aviv , amid growing continuing calls by pro-Palestinian activists to boycott the event . <p> One of the habeeds said that some of the Facebook and Twitter accounts targeted were that of US president Donald Trump and his daughter Ivanka for their role in relocating the US embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem . <p> The campaigners insist that their posts are not rude or abusive and follow discussion guidelines on social media . <p> Another strategy of the campaign is to leave positive comments thanking certain users , officials , or celebrities for their support towards the Palestinian cause . <p> Palestinian online citizen journalists and activists believe that digital battles can be just as effective as confrontation on the ground . It 's crystal clear that the influence of the Palestinian official state-run media outlets is weak compared to well-funded Israeli media outlets and Israel-friendly Western media organisations . <p> This unique " battle of awareness " is here to stay in light of the digital revolution , as long as anti-Palestinian propaganda exists and as long as justice is denied to the Palestinian people . <p> Disclaimer : The viewpoints expressed by the authors do not necessarily reflect the opinions , viewpoints and editorial policies of TRT World . <p> We welcome all pitches and submissions to TRT World Opinion -- please send them via email , to **30;178;TOOLONG <p> Yousef Alhelou is a Palestinian journalist and political analyst based in London . He has been covering the Palestinian-Israeli affairs since 2005 and reported on the Israeli wars on Gaza in 2008 and 2012 as well as other major events . He got MA in International Relations , and currently a PhD candidate focusing on media and colonialism . He is a former Reuters journalist fellow attended Oxford University and a United Nations alumni . 
@@61836609 <h> Millions more , however , in India , Pakistan , and Iran , will likely be marking the start of the lunar month on Tuesday based on moon sightings there . <p> In Kilimli district of Zonguldak , workers working in coal mines did their first suhoor under the ground , in Turkey , May 6 , 2019 . ( AA ) <p> Muslims in Southeast Asian countries like Indonesia and Malaysia , and much of the Middle East , including Egypt , Iraq and Saudi Arabia , will fast on Monday for the start of the month of Ramadan . <p> Muslims in Turkey also observe their first fast of the month today . <p> Millions more , however , in India , Pakistan , and Iran , will likely be marking the start of the lunar month on Tuesday based on moon sightings there . <p> Muslims follow a lunar calendar , and a moon-sighting methodology can lead to different countries declaring the start of Ramadan a day or two apart . Traditionally , countries announce if their moon-sighting council spots the Ramadan crescent the evening before fasting begins . <p> Across the world , Muslims fast each day for the entire month of Ramadan , abstaining from food and drink from dawn to dusk . That means around 15 hours without food , water , cigarettes or caffeine . <p> Fasting is aimed at drawing worshippers closer to God through self-control , remembrance , and humility . The challenge of fasting for many is also a chance to reset spiritually and physically , kick bad habits and purify the heart . <p> During the day , Muslims must also abstain from gossip , and cursing , and are encouraged to focus on prayer , reading the Quran and charity . <p> Muslims perform the first ' Tarawih ' prayer on the beginning of the Islamic Holy month of Ramadan at the yard of the Al-Aqsa Mosque in Jerusalem on May 05 , 2019 . ( AA ) <p> It 's common practice across many Muslim-majority nations for liquor stores and hotels to curb the sale of alcohol during Ramadan . Often , restaurants shutter their doors during the day . <p> Those exempt from fasting include children , the elderly , the sick , women who are pregnant , nursing or menstruating , and people travelling . <p> The Ramadan fast begins with a pre-dawn meal called " suhoor " to prepare for the long day ahead . A typical suhoor often includes bread , vegetables , fruits , yogurt , tea , as well as lentils and beans . <p> At sunset , when it 's time to mark the end of the daylong fast , families and friends gather for an evening meal known as " iftar . " <p> Muslims typically break their fast as the Prophet Muhammad ( Peace Be Upon Him ) did some 1,400 years ago , by eating sweet dates and drinking water , followed by a sunset prayer . Then , the iftar meals are enjoyed . <p> Muslims in Indonesia perform tarawih prayers on the eve of the holy month of Ramadan at Istiqlal Mosque in Jakarta , Indonesia on May 5 , 2019 . Istiqlal Mosque has a capacity of 200,000 worshipers making it the largest in Southeast Asia . Based on the outside area of the building and land , the Istiqlal Mosque is also the largest in Southeast Asia and the fourth in the world with an area of 95,000m2 . ( AA ) <p> While Muslims around the world welcomed the start of Ramadan with traditional greetings and messages of peace , the start of the Muslim holy month in the Gaza Strip was marked by sounds of outgoing Palestinian rockets and incoming Israeli airstrikes . <p> Families often shop for food items in the days before Ramadan , but most shops and markets in Gaza were closed due to the heavy round of cross-border fighting . <p> " We got used to this situation , we do n't care anymore , " said Rushdi Anbar , a 42-year-old architect , as he hurried through one of the few markets still open . <p> In 2014 , the latest of three deadly wars between Israel and Gaza 's Hamas rulers began in the second week of Ramadan and lasted for 50 days . <p> Anwar Zeydieh , a mother of three , said she fears a similar scenario this Ramadan . " I do n't think we are ready to endure all this suffering again . " 
@@61847680 <h> Israel Hermes 900 training nears completion <p> By Arie **30;3129;TOOLONG <p> The Israeli air force is close to completing the full integration of Elbit Systems ' Hermes 900 ' Kochav ' unmanned air vehicle ( UAV ) , with the service having recently operated the type without support from the manufacturer 's technical team . More of its personnel are set to be certified to operate the aircraft in the coming weeks . <p> With a medium-altitude , long-endurance design , the Hermes 900 can perform persistent intelligence , surveillance , target acquisition and reconnaissance , and area-dominance missions while carrying multiple payloads weighing up to a combined 350kg ( 770lb ) . It also can fly ground support and maritime patrol missions . <p> Completion of the Hermes 900 's integration is part of a move to increase the number of UAV units within the air force . Demand for its services continues to increase , particularly following last year 's Operation Protective Edge in Gaza . <p> US Air Force chief of staff nominee General Charles Brown plans to make pursuit of the Pentagon 's Joint All-Domain Command and Control battlefield network concept one of the service 's highest priorities . <p> The weapons technology company is leading a team of subcontractors , including General Atomics Electromagnetic Systems , Lockheed Martin and Raytheon Technologies to build the USA 's first production example of a hypersonic weapon , the Common Hypersonic Glide Body <h> More Military UAVs <p> Later this year , the Airpower Teaming System will undergo ground testing , followed by taxi tests and its first flight test . After that , manned-unmanned teaming test flights will be conducted , says the firm . Testing is to be done at undisclosed locations in Australia . <p> FlightGlobal is the global aviation community 's primary source of news , data , insight , knowledge and expertise . We provide news , data , analytics and advisory services to connect the aviation community globally and help organisations shape their business strategies , identify new opportunities and make better decisions faster . 
@@61850551 <h> Galway City Council to discuss boycotting Israel <p> Galway City Council will discuss a motion on whether the council will endorse the Boycott , Divestment and Sanctions movement against Israel on Monday , 11 June . <p> The BDS movement is inspired by the South African anti-apartheid movement and works to end international support for Israel 's oppression of Palestinians . <p> Donegal County Councillors agreed last week to boycott economic trade with Israel and to call for the Israeli ambassador to be expelled from Ireland following the killing of protesters in Gaza by the Israeli Defence Force . <p> If the motion is passed , Israeli products will not be purchased by Galway City Council departments . <p> The Galway Palestine Solidarity Committee has organised a rally on Monday at 1pm at City Hall to show support for the BDS movement and the Palestinian people . <p> In recent weeks , the Israeli Defence Forces killed over 100 people at the Gaza border . <p> 21-year old medic Razzan Najjar ( who was wearing a white coat , clearly indicating she was a medic ) was shot and killed last week while attending to injured Palestinians . <p> This week , the Argentina national team called off their pre-World Cup friendly with Israel which was due to be held in Jerusalem . <p> The City Council motion reads : " 1 . Since its violent establishment in 1948 through the ethnic cleansing of more than half of the indigenous people of Palestine , the state of Israel has denied Palestinians their fundamental rights and has refused to comply with international law ; noting also that Israel continues to illegally occupy and colonise Palestinian land , discriminates against Palestinian citizens of Israel , imposes an inhumane blockade and siege of Gaza and denies Palestinian refugees the right to return to their homes , Galway City Council fully supports and endorses the Palestinian-led Boycott , Divestment and Sanctions movement for freedom , equality and justice and commits itself to discontinue all business contracts it has with Hewlett-Packard , both HP Inc. and Hewlett Packard Enterprise for business and government services , as well as the HP spin-off DXC Technology as HP and DXC provide and operate much of the technology infrastructure that Israel uses to maintain its system of apartheid and settler colonialism over the Palestinian people . " 
@@61852928 <h> Propaganda -- never serious reflection <p> SIR -- Robert AH Cohen , a British Jew and broadcast journalist , asks some important questions of those who support Zionism , such as Rowe , Adam and Davis , whose letters offer only propaganda and never serious reflection or concern for casualties to the Israeli -Palestinian conflict on both sides . <p> In spite of its many new allies , Zionism is under enormous pressure from within as more Jews , in Israel and elsewhere , come to question the wisdom of maintaining a Zionist state that consecrates discrimination and fuels violence . Only extremist Zionists deny that the historical record shows the indigenous Arab population of Palestine paid a high price for the triumph of Jewish nationalism . <p> Zionism was never just an innocent endeavour which Arab hostility and irrational Jew hatred attempted to thwart . Cohen argues , the state of Israel -- which constitutionally discriminates against its own non-Jewish citizens ; besieges and occupies another people 's land ; uses nationalist religious extremists from around the world with no Middle East connections as settler land-grabbers -- is not acceptable today . <p> The opposition to Zionism and to Israel 's treatment of Palestinians draws on basic Judaic principles of justice . Zionism which was a left-wing organisation to begin with is now far-right and is no longer a political project . <p> Zionism has usurped the three thousand years of Jewish religion , history and culture into one entity or belief system : the Occupation , the Siege of Gaza , the Settlements -- all are Judaism . Cohen explains how the defence of an Israeli colonial project of dispossession of Palestinians has now become one of defending Judaism rather than of politics . As Jewish Professor Rabkin of Montreal explains ; ' that shift to the right was inevitable with the influence of the major influx of those from the Russian Empire taking power . ' <p> He points out that there has never been a prime minister in Israel who was either not born in the Russian Empire , or whose parents were . This change of Zionism into a religion , he explains , is why even Rabbis do n't speak out against the atrocities being committed and then excused in the name of their faith . <p> The 551 Gazan children killed by Israel in their 2014 onslaught ; the 200+ Palestinian protesters killed and 1,900+ wounded by Israeli army snipers on the Gaza border in 2018 is what makes Zionism a crime rather than just a political failure for the Jewish people . <p> Zionism attempts to legitimise and justify such crimes but there are a growing number of Jews who have understood that Zionism has been a ' mistake ' in Jewish history . Many will stand with Palestinians to mark the anniversary of their Nakba ( 1948 forced exodus of Palestinians ) on May 15th . <p> Hillel the early Jewish religious leader summarizes the attitude that inspires opposition to Zionism , which has dispossessed , displaced and discriminated against Palestinians : ' That which is hateful to you , do not do to your fellow . That is the whole Torah . ' <p> Israel needs to stop being an ideology and start being a nation . A nation for all its citizens , all with equal national , civil and religious rights . <p> Bob Storey , <p> Skibbereen . <p> Subscribe to the Southern Star'sYouTube channel , like us onFacebook and follow us onTwitter and Instagram for all the latest news and sport from West Cork . 
@@61854477 <h> Amnesty International criticised the arrest of several individuals over expressing their views and called for all in custody to be released . <p> Demonstrators gather outside the International Criminal Court urging the court to prosecute Israel 's army for war crimes in The Hague , Netherlands on Friday , November 29 , 2019 . ( AP ) <p> Amnesty International on Thursday criticised Palestinian authorities in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip for detaining critics and opponents for expressing their views . <p> The London-based human rights group said five people were arrested in March and April , including a peace activist , for holding a video call with Israelis and a writer who criticised authorities in Gaza for a deadly market fire . Amnesty called the detentions a " pattern of arbitrary arrests " of Palestinians for voicing their opinions . <p> " The authorities in both the West Bank and Gaza Strip have violated the right to freedom of expression by arbitrarily detaining individuals solely for peacefully sharing their views on social media . This must immediately stop , " said Saleh Higazi , deputy Middle East director at Amnesty International . <p> The group , which criticised both the West Bank-based Palestinian Authority and Hamas in Gaza , called for all those who were arrested for expressing their views to be released . <p> The arrests happened during states of emergency imposed in both territories over the coronavirus outbreak , and Amnesty said the detentions during a pandemic " puts these individuals at an increased risk . " <p> In the West Bank , one of the detainees is a former member of Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas ' Fatah party who criticised the Palestinian leader . A second detainee had also slammed Abbas ' response to the Covid-19 crisis . Both were later released . <p> There was no immediate comment from the Palestinian Authority . <p> In Gaza , which has been run by Hamas since the militant group routed pro-Abbas forces in 2007 , authorities detained three Palestinians on different charges . Among them is a writer who hinted in a Facebook post at Hamas ' responsibility for a market fire that killed over 20 Palestinians in March . A second is a cartoonist who criticised the detention of the writer . Both were released . <p> " There are no detainees on freedom of expression and the names mentioned had committed violations punishable by law and have nothing to do with political opinion or colour , " he said . <p> Since the 2007 Palestinian split , Hamas and the Palestinian Authority have repeatedly cracked down on each other 's supporters , banned their activities and rounded up critics , although the intensity of such campaigns varies . 
@@61856649 <h> Did Someone Say Participate ? An Atlas of Spatial Practice <p> The idea of architecture as multidisciplinary and socio-politically engaged underpins this reader . The editors , Markus Miessen and Shumon Basar , have brought architectural theorists together with historians , anthropologists , activists , curators , policy-makers and other experts under one conceptual umbrella as ' spatial practitioners ' . In the introduction they declare : ' rather than being yet another publication dealing with the state of contemporary architecture as a crisis of style or shape , this book attempts to dismantle the idea of " the architect " being the one in charge of space . ' Many of the contributors are associated with the relatively new Centre for Research Architecture at Goldsmiths College , London . <p> The book 's no-nonsense layout , interspersed with contributions by visual artists , was created by graphic design team ? b ? ke , who used their ' Olive Nouveau ' typeface . The jacket apes an old schoolbook : an atlas of sorts , but one that maps an extended academic circle and its response to a built world being radically reshaped by conflict and globalization . <p> Accordingly , the book deals with subjects as diverse as the experiences of a UN aid worker in Iraq , the geo-politics of water in Nepal , Berlin 's ruined centre , a day around the Gate of Damascus in Jerusalem , the European Kunsthalle in Cologne and Rebecca Gompert 's extraterritorial floating abortion clinic . In some sections the writing tends to be a bit leaden , but by way of recompense there are also contributions that are hard-hitting and cogently argued , for instance , Stephen Graham 's ' Remember Fullujah : Demonizing Place , Constructing Atrocity ' , a sharply honed critique of military strategy , orientalist dehumanization and urban warfare . ( Did you know that the US army offers a kind of recruitment-driven free computer game called America 's Army , which apparently includes simulations of ' counter terror warfare in densely packed Islamic cities ' ? ) Equally tough is Eyal Weizman 's essay ' Architecture , Power Unplugged : Gaza Evacuations ' , which examines the arguments and proposals for new uses , or the demolition , of evacuated Jewish settlements in the Gaza Strip : a complex situation that Weizman calls ' a rare opportunity to question ... the possible reuse of architecture , in particular the architecture of exclusion , violence , and control at the moment such architecture is unplugged from the socio-political-military power that had been sustaining it ' . <p> Visual arts related contributions include Celine Condorelli and Beatrice Gibson 's ' Mumbai City Dictionary ' , a documentation project about orientation in a mega-city where the GPS signals are scrambled and no map exists . In his essay ' The Museum of the Future ' Peter Weibel argues for ' unpredictable , incalculable , high-risk but risk loving ' institutions . Last but not least , Hans Ulrich Obrist heads up the book with a preface that includes a list of definitions of the future by artists , architects , science fiction authors and futurologists . Two favourites : ' the future is overrated ' ( Cerith Wyn Evans ) and ' the future will be repeated ' ( Marlene Dumas ) . 
@@61859810 <p> Paris-based Tu Vas Voir developing adaptation of Sacco 's graphic novel on 1956 Gaza massacre ; company also confirms new Walter Salles film to start shooting at end of 2012 . <p> Incendies director Denis Villeneuve is set to direct an adaptation of Joe Sacco 's graphic novel Footnotes in Gaza , Paris-based production company Tu Va Voir , which is developing the project , has announced . <p> " It took a long time for us to convince Joe Sacco that we were the right people to adapt the work , " says Tu Vas Voir producer Amiel Tenenbaum , who started bidding for adaptation rights shortly after the work 's publication at the end of 2009 . <p> Footnotes in Gaza is based on Maltese-American cartoonist and journalist Sacco 's own research in the Gaza Strip into the shooting dead by Israeli soldiers of 111 Palestinians in the town of Rafah in 1956 . <p> Sacco first achieved international fame with his 1996 book Palestine . Other works include Area Gorazde and The Fixer , both capturing the Bosnian War . <p> " Joe was always adamant that it was important for him to have confidence in the director ... from the beginning we 'd had Denis in mind , " continues Tenenbaum . <p> After talks with Villeneuve 's agent Claude Girard at the Cannes Film Festival , Tu Vas Voir set up a meeting between the director and Sacco in New York at the end of last year . <p> " Joe came out saying I think you 've found the right person , " recounts Tenenbaum . <p> Tu Vas Voir plans to adapt the work as a feature-length animation , taking inspiration from Sacco 's original black and white illustrations . <p> Canadian Villeneuve , whose Lebanon-set Incendies is nominated for a best foreign language film Oscar , is also co-writing the script . <p> " We 're kicking off the creative development on our own and once we have a script we 'll start bringing on co-producers and looking for finance -- by June , July there will be more news -- we 've already put out a lot of feelers , " says Tenenbaum . <p> Paris-based Tu Vas Voir -- created by G ? rard Lacroix and Edgard Tenembaum in 2002 -- specialises in French features and international co-productions . <p> The company , which produced Walter Salles ' 2004 Motorcycle Diaries , is also currently developing the Brazilian-born director 's next project -- a road movie about two half brothers who meet for the first time at their estranged father 's funeral . <p> The long-announced project , provisionally entitled Terra , was put on hold when Salles signed up to direct On the Road . It is now set to shoot in Chile and Argentina at the end of 2012 with Gael Garcia Bernal and Ricardo Darin co-starring . <p> " Once Walter is off On the Road we expect the production to come together very quickly , " commented Tu Vas Voir co-chief Tenembaum . <p> Buenos Aires-based KS Films has signed up as a co-producer , Paris-based Mars Distribution has pre-bought French rights and Wild Bunch is handling international sales . <p> Tu Vas Voir is also co-producing Argentine director Pablo Reyero 's Escafandra , about a family dealing with the father 's violent suicide , which is due to start shooting in late August . <h> Subscribe to Screen International <p> Screen International is the essential resource for the international film industry . Subscribe now for monthly editions , awards season weeklies , access to the Screen International archive and supplements including Stars of Tomorrow and World of Locations . 
@@61862368 <h> How former Israeli citizen Gilad Atzmon left Israel and how becoming a musician helped him understand Palestinian suffering . <p> Atzmon at a rally for Palestine . ( ) <p> LONDON -- If you are despised by both conservative Zionists and liberal anti-Zionists , it can only mean one thing : you are Gilad Atzmon . <p> Born in Israel in 1963 into a Zionist household , he saw his birthplace as the Jewish promised land and says he was expected to serve and cement the Israeli ideology of Jewish supremacy . <p> However , at age 17 , he was mesmerised by the sounds of African American jazz musician Charlie Parker . As a passionate Israeli , this challenged what he 'd believed up until that point : only Jews produce greatness . <p> Serving as a paramedic and musician in the Israeli military during the 1982 invasion of Lebanon , he witnessed the immense suffering of Arabs . <p> At this point , he says , he began to view life " from an ethical , rather than a Zionist point of view . " <p> Years later he moved to Britain to study philosophy and launched his career as a jazz musician . Today , he attempts to enlighten and unite people through his art . <p> Yet his work as a writer examining Jewish identity has seen him described as a peddler of anti-Semitic conspiracy theories . He argues that this is an attempt to censor honest analysis of , and reflection upon , Jewishness ' immense impact on mass culture , politics and global economics through the likes ofThe Frankfurt School and Milton Friedman . <p> As Israel increasingly meets international criticism and boycott , Atzmon believes his former homeland can only be seriously challenged for its injustices , if it is understood in the wider context of Jewish identity politics -- a context he is trying to remove himself from . TRT World spoke to him to find out why . <p> TRT WORLD : As a musician , how do you feel about Lana Del Ray and many others cancelling their performances at the Meteor Festival in Israel following pleas from the BDS campaign ? <p> Gilad Atzmon : It 's a beautiful thing . I do n't support BDS mounting pressure on artists , but I think it is well appreciated when artists refuse to perform in states where there are so many crimes against humanity . I myself decided to boycott Israel a long time before the BDS movement was born . Since 1996 , I have n't visited my home country . <p> There have been major stories in the news this year regarding Israel . One of the most significant was the Jewish nation-state bill . What do you make of that ? <p> GA : It confirms what we 've known for more than a while : Israel is the Jewish state and everything that is happening in Israel should be understood within the context of its Jewishness . It confirms what I 've been saying for many years . We must dig into the notions of Jews , Jewishness and Judaism to understand the difference between these three and the relationship between them . <p> Break that down for us . <p> GA : I make a clear differentiation between Jews , the people , which I regard as an innocent category ; Jewishness , the ideology ; and Judaism , the religion . <p> I argue that both Jews and Judaism are innocent categories . The fact you are born a Jew does n't make you a war criminal or a supremacist . Also , Judaism is a relatively innocent notion . We know the only genuine Jewish collective who really operate actively for Palestine are Torah Jews , Orthodox Jews . <p> When it comes to Jewishness , this is complicated . I had a debate about this with a supremacist Jew yesterday and his argument was there is no such thing as Jewishness -- it changes along the years . I could n't agree more , elasticity is inherent to Jewishness . One thing that remains constant is the exceptionalism . Jewishness is different explorations of the notion of " chosenness . " Some Jews feel they are chosen because they are elected by God , some Jews feel they are chosen because they are Bolsheviks , and a week later they can feel chosen because they are supporting a free market -- like Milton Friedman . They can feel chosen because they are religious , and they can feel chosen because they are secular . It is this exceptionalism that is the core of " chosenness , " that is racially driven , that I believe is the common ground for all Jewish cultures . <p> This is why I have never in my life referred to Jews biologically , nor as a race , nor ethnicity . But I believe supremacy is something that is essential to Jewishness . This is why instead of talking about " Jews " I talk about the people who identify " politically " as Jews . <p> Gilad Atzmon ( Tali Atzmon / ) <p> You 've made a 180 degree turn from what Israel represents , but tell us about your childhood during which you say you were heavily influenced by your Zionist grandfather . <p> GA : I do n't think you can talk in my case about 180 , 45 or even 360 degree turns . I see my role as a philosopher , and as a philosopher , my job is to refine questions rather than subscribe to or recycle slogans . I 'm working now on Zionism , and I find -- this is interesting -- you 'll be the first one I explore this idea with . I grew up in a society that saw itself as a revolutionary society . I was subject to an ultranationalist upbringing driven by complete contempt towards the diaspora Jew , something I did n't understand because I was growing up in Israel and I did n't know any diaspora Jews . But the diaspora Jews were seen by us as a bunch of capitalists , unsocial abusers of the universe , and we were born to become ordinary people -- workers . My father was a hard-working man , my mother was a hard-working woman and I was raised to be a hard-working Israeli . <p> Unlike the diaspora Jews who went like lambs to the slaughter in Auschwitz , we were raised to fight and , accordingly , I was happy and looking forward to dying in a war . This was my upbringing . Let me tell you : when the war came , I was n't sure if I wanted to die for Israel . I started to understand that something was n't right . <p> Now , I never understood what the problem was with the diaspora Jews . All I knew was that when you immigrate to Israel , we called it aliyah . Aliyah means ascending . If you leave Israel and become a diaspora Jew , it is called yerida -- descending . So here , you already see within Zionism an internal concept of " chosenness ; " so the Israelis are the " uber-chosen . " What I do understand , nowadays , looking at the shift that happened in Israel after 1967 , Israel gradually stopped seeing itself as the Israeli state and more and more as the Jewish state . The dichotomy between " us " the special emancipated Israelites and the diaspora Jews started to disappear . <p> As we became a Jewish state , we started to adopt more and more Jewish symptoms . We became victims , we started to cry about the Holocaust . When I was young , we looked at the Holocaust with contempt . We looked at the Jews who went like lambs to the slaughter with contempt . If you do n't believe me , read Tom Sergev : The Seventh Million . It 's about the million who survived the Holocaust , how badly they were treated in Israel . There are films about it . My parents tell me , and you can hear it from a lot of people , that they were not allowed to play with or bring home young survivors of the Holocaust . They were looked upon by the Israelis at the time as sub-humans . There is a film about it : Aviya 's Summer . <p> What I understood recently is that I was initially very enthusiastic about this Israeli revolution . I agreed with it . <p> I just wanted to be an ordinary human being . But as Israel was transforming into a Jewish state , I had to leave the country . <p> What were you taught at school about the creation of Israel ? <p> GA : We were misled . We were told the Palestinians left willingly . I did n't hear the word nakba until the late nineties . However , when I was in Lebanon in 1982 , I started to see all the refugee camps . I started to dig into it and I realised the scale of the ethnic cleansing . <p> Can you share some of the things you saw ? <p> GA : I do n't like to talk about it . But when I saw the Israeli army in Lebanon , I understood that we were not as righteous as we claim to be and this was the beginning of my transition in the early 1980s . My journey really started there . <p> What was the tipping point that made you leave ? <p> GA : Very simple -- the Oslo Agreement of 1993 . Until that point , there was a common belief that we , the Israelis , wanted peace . When I look at the peace deal that was imposed on the Palestinians , I realised by then the Palestinians were the ones expelled from the country that I believed to be mine . I understood then that we do n't mean peace , that what Israel means by peace is security for the Jews . <p> This is why I am not hopeful . You will not hear me talking about resolution . Israel will be defeated into a solution by the facts on the ground . <p> How did music change you ? It 's part of your journey away from Israel , is n't it ? <p> GA : It was the first time I understood that I can join a discourse that is universal -- aiming at beauty -- rather than being a part of an ultranationalist tribal ethos . If jazz was the music of the oppressed , I gladly joined the oppressed and learned their language and I made it into quite a successful career . <p> How does being a jazz musician aid your philosophical work ? <p> GA : In my thirties , I tried to integrate Arabic music into my jazz . By then I could pretty much play any kind of music , but I realised how difficult it is for me to play Arabic music which is surprising because I grew up with Umm Kulthum , the Egyptian singer , all around me . <p> I found it really difficult . But then I realised that in Arab music it 's all about the primacy of the ear , as opposed to Western musical education where they put you in front of notes and you have to learn to translate the primacy of the eye . The West is obsessed with the primacy of the eye but humanity is all about the primacy of the ear . Primacy of the ear is where ethics starts . We have to listen to each other . I made a huge effort to listen to the Palestinians and understand their plight . If you were a Jewish journalist you would say : " What about listening to the Jews ? " I say listening to the Jews is not necessary because you get it all over -- from the media to the Holocaust museums . But Gaza , Syria , Iraq , Libya is the holocaust that is most relevant for us now . <p> Tell us about some of the thinkers , philosophers and activists who have influenced you ? <p> GA : I am disgusted by most forms of activism and I think activists have very little to contribute to our understanding . This is why they achieve nothing . They are part of the controlled opposition . I ended up learning German philosophy . I started with Immanuel Kant and what I took from him is the ability to refine questions . Then Hegel , Nietzsche and most important , Heidegger who is the ultimate master in refining questions , and this is what I do . By refining questions , I can see the answers are flexible . They are changing as the questions are shifting . <p> Heidegger was about " being , " right ? <p> GA : Obviously , but being is the goal . How do you reach the understanding of " being , " if ever ? Through questioning . What is " being ? " What is that thing that is unique , most fundamental to us human beings ? What he called dasein . This " Being , " with a capital B , that we can never touch . <p> So , what were you told " Being " was when you were growing up in Israel ? <p> GA : I guess that being an Israeli meant , at the early stage of my upbringing , being forceful , being determined , fighting for what you believe in and the willingness to sacrifice for that goal . Believe it or not , in that sense , I am 100 percent Israeli and I had to leave Israel because Israel was not Israel anymore . It stopped being Israeli . It became Jewish , and Jewishness is celebrating victimhood which is something that I would never do . I prefer to die than be a victim . <p> How do you describe yourself now ? <p> GA : I aim at a universal understanding of humanism . To be a universal humanist is a challenge for everyone , it 's a task rather than a state of being . It is being inspired by the ability to see yourself as an ordinary creature . To remove yourself from any sense of privilege . <p> Universal humanism is not the human rights declaration , not a set of commandments . It 's an organic thing that is changing all the time and is finding itself to be more and more inclusive , and this is why you can only aspire to become one and work on it twenty-four seven rather than declare yourself to be one . <p> Is universal humanism not part of the cultural Marxist doctrine , which you find impedes human flourishing ? <p> GA : On paper , yes . But in reality , definitely not . The new left , cultural Marxists -- the Frankfurt School -- are all people in the open who define who is in and who is out . They invented no platforming . How can people who adhere to no platforming be universalists ? <p> Are n't you still seeing the world from a Jewish perspective despite trying to move beyond this ? <p> GA : I hope not , you know . Some people would argue they see some Jewish traits in my thinking , and I accept that . The one thing that I would admit to you is that the one thing I learnt from Otto Weininger -- he 's one of the people who inspired me -- is that in art , self-realisation is the realisation of the world . So while a scientist looks at the world and tells us something about the world , artists close their eyes and write a poem , and through this poem we understand the world , or through a symphony -- and this is the most important thing . So when I look at myself , I occasionally deconstruct the Jew that is left in me . It 's not a privilege , it 's an instrument towards developing a better understanding and a better world . 
@@61867663 <h> Newsfeed <h> The story of a nurse in Covid-19 hospital in Rome <p> As the pandemic drags on , many frontline medics are digging deep to find strength . This is the story of one of them : Italian nurse Giuseppina Bonanno , who works in an ICU in Rome . #HealthcareWorkers #Nurses #ItalyCovid19 <h> Newsfeed <h> The story of a nurse in Covid-19 hospital in Rome <p> Up Next <p> Ahmaud Arbery : Killing of black man by two white men described as " lynching " <h> Related Videos <h> NewsFeed - Palestinian nurse killed by Israeli snipers in Gaza <h> Nursing home residents are among those most affected in Maryland <h> Nursing Home : Combining child and aged care benefits both <h> House of Hope : Darulaceze <h> More Videos <h> More and more saying ' No Mas ' to Meat <h> ' Workers are not slaves , ' Indian states planned rollback of labour laws causes controversy <h> Elon Musk gets his own way despite safety concerns <h> Musk 's World : Billionaires twitter tantrum gets factory opened <h> Poaching In The Pandemic : More animals being killed around the globe <h> A celebration of health workers on the 200th birthday of Florence Nightingale <h> 200 years old and still fly ! <h> The future of air travel <h> Who are the celeb ' super-spreaders ' of fake news ? <h> Kashmir blackout : World 's longest internet shutdown continues <h> Kashmir Continues To Face Internet Blackouts <h> Ahmaud Arbery : Killing of black man by two white men described as " lynching " 
@@61869274 <p> Seventy-two years ago , roughly 600 people were attacked by militias in the Palestinian village of Deir Yassin . More than 100 Palestinians were killed . The massacre was pivotal in pushing Palestinians to leave their homes . <p> Of the 1,200,000 population of Jordan , some 400,000 are displaced Palestinians , refugees from the recent Palestine war . A large number of these are housed at U.N and private camps in the area of Amman , the capital city . ( AP ) <p> For hundreds of years , Jews and Arabs , lived in Palestine as citizens of the Ottoman Empire but that status quo ended in the aftermath of World War I and the establishment of the British Mandate of Palestine . <p> The 1917 Balfour declaration by the UK promised Palestine to the Zionist movement despite the large Arab majority in the region . <p> Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat is seen in Jordan , 1969 . ( AP ) <p> The Palestinians were to suffer further when the West Bank and Gaza fell to the Israelis during the 1967 war . <p> Millions of Palestinians , including those displaced with the establishment of Israel , now found themselves having to live under military occupation , as well as further Israeli expansionism in their lands . <p> An unidentified protester marches in demonstration in front of the Los Angeles Federal Building in Los Angeles , on Monday , March 26 , 1979 , following the signing of the peace treaty between Egypt and Israel in Washington . ( AP ) <p> As of 2010 , 42 percent of territory in the West Bank was under the jurisdiction of Israeli settlements or directly controlled by the Israeli military . <p> Israeli soldiers shoot at Palestinian youths during protests in the West Bank town of Hebron Friday , March 21 1997 . The clashes erupted during protests by Palestinians over the construction of a new Jewish settlement in Palestinian villages . ( AP ) <p> In April of 2020 , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu announced his intention to annex the West Bank with the support of the US . <p> Palestinians light model buildings representing a Jewish settlement during a protest commemorating the 50 years of Palestinian disaster or " nakba " in Arabic , coinciding with the 50th anniversary of the founding of Israel . Monday May 11 , 1998 . ( AP ) <p> For many Palestinians , this is the latest chapter in a process that began with the initial loss of their land in 1948 . <p> Palestinian school children pass graffiti reading " Fifty Years Under The Tent " as they hold a march marking " al-Nakba " , or " The Catastrophe " , in the Dehaishe refugee camp May 13 . ( Reuters ) <p> According to Palestinian figures , roughly 640,000 Jewish settlers now live on 196 settlements ( built with the Israeli government 's approval ) and more than 200 settler outposts ( built without its approval ) across the occupied West Bank and East Jerusalem . <p> International law regards both the West Bank and East Jerusalem as " occupied territories " and considers all Jewish settlement-building activity there as illegal . <p> Palestinians gather during a protest marking the 71st anniversary of the ' Nakba ' , or catastrophe , when hundreds of thousands fled or were forced from their homes in the war surrounding Israel 's establishment in 1948 , near the Israel-Gaza border fence , east of Gaza City May 15 , 2019 
@@61870877 <h> The catastrophe that Palestinians first faced 72 years ago seems to only worsen with time . <p> The Palestinian people commemorate the 72nd anniversary of their Nakba ( catastrophe ) on the 15th of May , one day after Israel celebrated the 72nd anniversary of its independence . The contrast could not be starker . <p> Yes , Israel can say that it is undoubtedly strong and is supported by the world 's only superpower , the United States , and many countries claiming to uphold values of democracy and the rule of law . But Israel continues its oppressive policies , the most prolonged ' temporary ' occupation in history - and through the Nation-State Law in 2018 has declared itself to be the 21st century 's only apartheid state . <p> For this law adopted by the Knesset , the symbol of its tainted democracy , gives Jews and only Jews the right of self-determination in its yet undeclared borders while denying this to the indigenous Palestinians on whose land it was created through violence , dispossession and expulsion in 1948 . <p> Israel 's GDP stands at $363 Billion , while that of Palestine is $14 Billion . In 2019 , Israel ranked as the world 's 8th largest exporter of arms with its sales amounting to 3 percent of the global arms industry . <p> In its case , it proudly markets its military hardware as ' battle-tested ' , code for their use to oppress and punish Palestinians , particularly in multiple wars against Gaza . <p> Ronen Nadir confirmed this claim , a military commander specialising in missile development before establishing his company who said : " In Israel all the people ( in the industry ) are ex-army soldiers , officers . The engineers who work on the development of the systems are actually operating the UAVs in the ( military ) reserves , in actual service . Then they come back to the office with actual and real-time feedback . " <p> The Palestinians , on the other hand , remain , at best , second class citizens in Israel , under occupation in Gaza , East Jerusalem and the West Bank . <p> Gaza , in particular , has been under a tight siege for thirteen years with the UN declaring that it today exists as an unliveable place for 2 million people , deprived of their fundamental human rights including freedom of movement . <p> I recall hearing a Palestinian scholar in Gaza claiming during Israel 's 2014 war against Gaza that it would take 300 years for every Palestinian to leave Gaza for any reason , based on the limited opportunities to travel out of the strip either through Israel or the Rafah crossing with Egypt which remains generally closed . <p> Appetite for expansion <p> The story of the continuing Palestinian Nakba does not end at the borders of historic Palestine . An equal number of Palestinians -- around 6.5 million -- to those that still cling onto their place in their historic homeland , live abroad as refugees or members of the diaspora . <p> While the Palestinians proudly claim to be one of the most educated people in the Middle East , Israel does not see them as people of the land with rights , but rather as a demographic threat to the Jewish nature of the state of Israel . <p> While Palestinians claim rights enshrined in international law and their leadership clings to a two-state solution on the 1967 borders , Israel 's right-wing claims the whole land from the Jordan River to the Mediterranean Sea claiming that it 's scripture provides that notion legitimacy . That view is supported by Christian Zionists who see its continued existence as a precondition for Christ 's return . <p> In the United States , a powerful pro-Israel lobby has been working for decades to inform and influence American policy in support of Israel . It is important to note that this support not only comes from a large proportion of Jewish Americans but from millions of Christian Zionists as well . <p> While successive US presidents and administrations have supported Israel , none has done as much in such a short time to embolden its right-wing settler-led colonialist government than Donald Trump . <p> Soon after his election he took the Palestine and Israel conflict away from the State Department and created a team whose belief in Israel and Zionism means that what Israel wants Israel gets . <p> It receives half of America 's annual aid budget , has had an American president recognise its illegal annexation of East Jerusalem and the Syrian Golan Heights , has ended all aid to the Palestinians , including their UN refugee agency , UNRWA and with more to come . <p> Never has a US Ambassador -- David Friedman , in this case -- done more for Zionism and Israel than the current one . He is a former Trump bankruptcy lawyer , funder of the settlement of Beit El and now a chief proponent of the illegal annexation of large swathes of the West Bank , including the Israeli colonies . <p> Friedman believes there is no occupation and Israel has every right to annex parts of the West Bank to meet what he claims are its security needs , but in reality , is an endless appetite for expansion . <p> Working with Trump 's son-in-law Jared Kushner and former Trump Chief Negotiator for the Middle East , Jason Greenblatt , they mapped out what they called ' the deal of the century ' but what the Palestinians saw as a surrender note . They dressed it up as something the Palestinians would be mad to refuse . <p> The next few months will be extremely dangerous for the Palestinian cause . A new government is taking form in Israel bringing a close to three attempts to elect a functioning government in Israel . <p> Current Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and the leader of Blue and White have agreed to a 3-year power-sharing agreement that allows Netanyahu first bite at leading before handing power to Benny Gantz . <p> At the heart of that agreement is the illegal annexation of large swathes of the West Bank , including the Jordan Valley and the Northern Dead Sea . This is seen not only as an Israeli interest but an American interest . Israel annexes and then America recognises as it did with East Jerusalem and the Golan , except this , will be done at a record pace . <p> This is conveniently expected to coincide with November 2020 , when America elects its next president ( unless the global pandemic derails that ) . Deprived of his 2-3 rallies per day , and failing to get on top of the Covid-19 pandemic , Trump can please his Christian Zionist supporters by taking action thousands of miles away , recognising Israeli annexation . <p> Secretary of State Mike Pompeo 's first overseas visit since the pandemic was for a few hours to meet Netanyahu and Gantz . While the reason given for the visit was said to be the continuing Iranian threat and coordination on Covid-19 -- we can be sure that annexation was on the agenda . <p> Pompeo did not meet Palestinian leaders during his trip , who have stood steadfast since declaring it was breaking all contact with the Americans after Trump recognised Jerusalem as Israel 's capital in 2017 . <p> As they commemorate the Nakba , Palestinians will lick their ever-deepening wounds as they continue to fight for their rights . The road to attaining these starts with unity and reform of the ailing Palestinian institutions , including the PLO and the passing of the leadership baton to fresh young leadership . <p> As they fight to halt annexation , they should worry about the next stage of Israel 's agenda . <p> Disclaimer : The viewpoints expressed by the authors do not necessarily reflect the opinions , viewpoints and editorial policies of TRT World . <p> We welcome all pitches and submissions to TRT World Opinion -- please send them via email , to **30;1033;TOOLONG <p> Professor Kamel Hawwash is a British Palestinian engineering academic based at the University of Birmingham . He is a commentator on Middle East affairs , Vice Chair of the British Palestinian Policy Council ( BPPC ) and a member of the Executive Committee of the Palestine Solidarity Campaign ( PSC ) . He writes here in a personal capacity . His website is at www.kamelhawwash.com 
@@61881898 <h> The global coronavirus pandemic has affected more than five million people , with over 340,000 deaths , according to a tracker . Here are coronavirus-related updates for May 23 : <p> A protester of the " Mascherine Tricolore " movement wearing a protective mask in the colours of the Italian flag participates in a demonstration against the economic measures adopted by the government , amid the coronavirus disease ( Covid-19 ) outbreak , in Rome , Italy , May 23 , 2020 . ( Reuters ) <p> Saturday , May 23 , 2020 <p> Italy 's daily death toll eases <p> Italy recorded 119 new deaths from the pandemic against 130 the day before , the Civil Protection Agency said , while the daily tally of new cases rose marginally to 669 from 652 on Friday . <p> The total death toll since the outbreak came to light on Feb. 21 now stands at 32,735 , the agency said , the third highest in the world after those of the United States and Britain . <p> The Civil Protection Agency said the total number of confirmed cases in Italy since the start of its outbreak now amounts to 229,327 , the sixth highest global tally behind those of the United States , Russia , Spain , Britain and Brazil . <p> Spain 's toll climbs by 48 <p> Spain 's overnight death toll from the coronavirus rose by 48 to a total of 28,678 , the seventh straight day that the fatality rate has been less than 100 , while the total number of cases rose to 235,290 . <p> Spain will reopen its borders to tourists in July and its top soccer division will kick off again in June , the Prime Minister said , marking another phase in the easing of one of the world 's strictest lockdowns . <p> Turkey 's test numbers up , virus cases stay low <p> Turkey confirmed 1,186 new cases of coronavirus , bringing the total to 155,686 , continuing the trend of low case numbers in recent days , according to Health Ministry data posted on Twitter . <p> Recoveries from the disease hit 117,602 as 1,491 more patients were discharged from hospitals over the past day , said Health Minister Fahrettin Koca . <p> The death toll from the outbreak rose to 4,308 as the country reported 32 new fatalities in the last 24 hours , according to ministry data . <p> Number of patients in France continues to slide <p> The number of people in hospital in France fell by 205 to 17,178 , continuing a gradual decline that has lasted more than five weeks since a high of 32,292 on April 14 . <p> The number of people in intensive care fell by 36 or 2.1 percent to 1,665 . <p> France did not publish a revised number of deaths and said the toll will be updated on Monday . As of Thursday , a total of 28,215 people had died from the virus . <p> Groups of up to 10 must aim to stay " safe " - NY governor <p> New York Governor Andrew Cuomo advised people to exercise good judgment and social distancing when gathering in groups of up to 10 people as allowed in an executive order loosening restrictions issued late on Friday . <p> In his daily briefing , he said New York recorded 84 coronavirus deaths on May 22 compared with 109 the day before , continuing a downward trend in the state 's toll from the pandemic . <p> " You can have a safe gathering of 10 people or you can have a wholly unsafe gathering of 10 people , " said Cuomo . " If you do n't have to be with a group of ten people do n't be with a group of ten people . " <p> Palestinians report first death in Gaza <p> A woman has died in Gaza Strip after contracting coronavirus , the Palestinian enclave 's first fatality from the global pandemic , the health ministry said . <p> It said the 77-year-old woman had suffered from a prior chronic illness and had travelled to Gaza through neighbouring Egypt on May 19 . She had been quarantined as a precaution since then , the ministry said . <p> UK death toll up by 282 <p> The United Kingdom 's death toll from confirmed cases of Covid-19 rose by 282 to 36,675 , the government said . <p> Spanish soccer 's top flight division La Liga can return to action from June 8 after being disrupted by the pandemic , Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez said . <p> All organised soccer in Spain was provisionally suspended on March 12 although clubs in the top two divisions have since returned to group training . <p> Pandemic spreading in Bangladesh 's Rohingya camps <p> Bangladesh 's crammed Rohingya camps are threatened with the outbreak as the infection tally rose to 21 with eight new cases reported on Friday , a government official said . <p> The first case in the world 's biggest refugee camps was recorded on May 14 and it took one week to push the infection tally to the second digit mark . <p> Iran 's death toll rises to 7,359 <p> Iran confirmed 59 more fatalities over the past 24 hours , bringing the nationwide death toll to 7,359 . <p> A further 1,869 people tested positive for virus , raising the overall count to 133,521 , said the Health Ministry spokesman Kianoush Jahanpour . <p> He said 104,072 patients have recovered and been discharged from hospitals so far , while 2,633 patients remain in critical condition . <p> China reports zero cases <p> China reported no new confirmed infections or deaths and only two suspected cases during the past 24 hours . That added to evidence that the country has largely overcome the epidemic that began in the central industrial city of Wuhan . <p> The National Health Commission said 79 patients were still being treated as of Friday . Some 376 others are in isolation and being monitored as either suspected cases or for testing positive without showing symptoms . <p> China has reported a total of 82,971 cases , including 4,634 deaths . <p> Russia reports 9,434 new infections <p> Russia said 9,434 new cases of the novel coronavirus had been reported during the past 24 hours , pushing its nationwide tally to 335,882 . <p> The country 's coronavirus crisis response centre reported 139 new fatalities after a record of 150 deaths the day before , bringing the death toll to 3,388 . <p> Malaysia reports 48 new cases , no new deaths <p> Malaysia reported 48 new coronavirus cases , bringing the total number of infections in the country to 7,185 . <p> The health ministry also said no new deaths were recorded , with the number of fatalities remaining at 115 . <p> China 's Wuhan says conducted 1,470,950 tests <p> The city of Wuhan , the original epicentre of the coronavirus outbreak in China , conducted 1,470,950 nucleic acid tests for the virus on Friday , the local health authority said , compared with 1,000,729 tests the previous day . <p> Wuhan kicked off a campaign on May 14 to look for asymptomatic carriers - infected people who show no outward sign of illness - after confirming on May 9-10 its first cluster of Covid-19 infections since its lockdown was lifted on April 8 . <p> Protests in Spain against government 's handling of Covid-19 <p> Thousands of cars honking horns and flying Spanish flags out of their windows drove in procession through Madrid as part of a nationwide anti-government protest called by the far-right Vox party . <p> Protesters called for Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez and Deputy Prime Minister Pablo Iglesias to resign over their handling of the coronavirus crisis . <p> Iran to reopen religious , cultural sites - president <p> Iran moved to open businesses , religious and cultural sites as it eases restrictions imposed to contain the coronavirus pandemic . <p> Museums and historical sites are to reopen on Sunday to coincide with the Eid al Fitr celebrations that end the Muslim holy fasting month of Ramadan , President Hassan Rouhani said on state television . <p> Holy shrines -- some of which became focal points of the coronavirus epidemic in Iran - will reopen Monday . <p> Rouhani had said last week that the shrines would open for three hours in the morning and three hours in the afternoon . Some areas of the shrines such as narrow corridors will stay shut . All workers in the country will return to work next Saturday . <p> Singapore 's health ministry confirms 642 more cases <p> Singapore 's health ministry said it had confirmed 642 more coronavirus cases , taking its tally of infections to 31,068 . <p> The vast majority of the newly infected people are migrant workers living in dormitories , the ministry said in a statement . Six are permanent residents . <p> Thailand reports three new cases , no new deaths <p> Thailand reported three new coronavirus cases and no new deaths , bringing the country 's total to 3,040 confirmed cases and 56 fatalities since the outbreak started in January . <p> The new cases are two Thai nationals recently returned from overseas and under quarantine and a 49-year-old Italian man living in Phuket , said Panprapa Yongtrakul , a spokeswoman for the government 's coronavirus task force . <p> There are 2,916 patients who have recovered and returned home since the outbreak started , Panprapa said . <p> UN warns cybercrime on rise during pandemic <p> The UN disarmament chief says the Covid-19 pandemic is moving the world toward increased technological innovation and online collaboration , but " cybercrime is also on the rise , with a 600 percent increase in malicious emails during the current crisis . " <p> Izumi Nakamitsu told an informal meeting of the UN Security Council that " there have also been worrying reports of attacks against health care organisations and medical research facilities worldwide . " <p> She said growing digital dependency has increased the vulnerability to cyberattacks , and " it is estimated that one such attack takes place every 39 seconds . " <p> South Korea reports 23 new cases <p> South Korea reported 23 new cases of the coronavirus , mostly from the densely populated Seoul metropolitan area where authorities have shut down thousands of nightclubs , bars and karaoke rooms in a desperate attempt to stem transmissions . <p> Figures announced by the Korea Centers for Disease Control and Prevention brought national totals to 11,165 cases and 266 deaths . Thirteen of the new cases came from Gyeonggi province surrounding capital Seoul , which issued an administrative order to ban gatherings at an additional 2,629 bars and karaoke rooms , bringing its number of shut-down entertainment venues to 8,363 . <p> The country was reporting around 500 new cases a day in early March before using aggressive tracing and testing to stabilise its outbreak . <p> But there 's growing concern over the steady rise of infections in the greater capital area , where about half of South Korea 's 51 million people live , which came after health authorities relaxed social distancing guidelines and allowed a phased reopening of schools , starting with high school seniors on Wednesday . <p> Germany 's cases rise by 638 to 177,850 <p> The number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Germany increased by 638 to 177,850 , data from the Robert Koch Institute ( RKI ) for infectious diseases showed . <p> The reported death toll rose by 42 to 8,216 , the tally showed . <p> Australia calls on younger people to get tests <p> Australia 's most populous state said it recorded just three new cases of the coronavirus the previous day and urged younger people to get tested as it prepares to further loosen restrictions on pubs and restaurants . <p> New South Wales ( NSW ) , which includes the city of Sydney , is home to nearly half Australia 's roughly 7,100 coronavirus cases and plans to let pubs and restaurants host up to 50 seated patrons from June 1 , from 10 now . <p> That has prompted health officials to remind people to maintain social distancing measures and increase testing to prevent a " second wave " of infections . <p> Australia 's low number of Covid-19 infections and deaths , relative to many other countries , has been attributed mostly to a closure of national and state borders and a nationwide stay-home order now being unwound by states under a three-step federal plan . <p> US to exempt foreign athletes from virus-related entry bans <p> The United States will exempt some foreign athletes who compete in professional sporting events in the United States from entry bans imposed because of the novel coronavirus epidemic , acting Secretary of Homeland Security Chad Wolf said on Friday . <p> " In today 's environment , Americans need their sports . It 's time to reopen the economy and it 's time we get our professional athletes back to work , " Wolf said in a statement issued by the department announcing he had signed an order for the exemption . <p> Mexico reports another single-day record for virus deaths <p> Mexico on Friday registered a record for coronavirus deaths on a single day , posting 479 more deaths along with 2,960 new infections , according to data from the health ministry . <p> Authorities have now reported 62,527 total cases of the coronavirus and 6,989 deaths since detecting the first cases in Mexico in late February . <p> The previous peak in fatalities was May 20 , when authorities reported 424 deaths . <p> Brazil rises to No. 2 in coronavirus cases <p> Brazil overtook Russia on Friday in terms of the number of coronavirus cases , having registered 330,890 people who have contracted the virus , second only to the United States . <p> However the true number - both of cases and deaths - is likely higher as Latin America 's top economy has been slow to ramp up testing . <p> NBA great and Georgetown coach Ewing hospitalised with Covid-19 <p> NBA Hall of Famer Patrick Ewing , now the head basketball coach at Georgetown University , is in hospital with Covid-19 . <p> Ewing , 57 , said on Twitter on Friday he had tested positive for the virus . <p> France allows faith gatherings <p> France is to allow the resumption of religious gatherings after a two-month hiatus caused by the Covid-19 outbreak , but worshippers will have to wear face masks , the French interior ministry announced . <p> The ministry said late on Friday that it would issue a decree setting out the new rules for religious gatherings . <p> Under the decree , a ban on gatherings imposed in March , as part of government efforts to contain the spread of the coronavirus , would be rescinded . But collective worship would have to observe conditions , including the wearing of masks , a distance of at least one metre between worshippers and hand-washing , the ministry said in a statement . <p> Latin America named virus epicentre as Trump demands churches reopen <p> The World Health Organization declared Latin America " a new epicentre " of the coronavirus pandemic Friday as US President Donald Trump demanded churches reopen despite the ongoing Covid-19 threat . <p> Mexico cancels football season <p> The remainder of the season of Mexican top-tier football division was cancelled Friday in response to the coronavirus pandemic . <p> The Liga MX said the league agreed to conclude the 2020 Clausura season for health reasons and no club will be declared winner . <p> The top two teams , Cruz Azul and Leon , are eligible to join the CONCACAF Champions League next season . <p> Mexico says it has avoided coronavirus ' deluge ' even as cases mount <p> Mexico 's government said on Friday it had the coronavirus outbreak under control even as the country becomes one of the global hotspots for the pandemic . <p> The health ministry had forecast the outbreak could peak two weeks ago , but Mexico has posted its highest totals of deaths and infections in the past two days , trailing only the United States and Brazil for fatalities on Wednesday and Thursday . <p> Coronavirus brought EU , Turkey ' closer ' <p> The European Union and Turkey got closer during the fight against novel coronavirus , which claimed hundreds of thousands of lives , a senior Turkish official said Friday . <p> " I think coronavirus crisis brought Turkey and the EU closer to each other but also demonstrated what Turkey can do in crisis times for the good and benefit of all of us in Europe , " said Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs &amp; Director for EU Affairs Ambassador Faruk Kaymakci . <p> Cuba credits two drugs with slashing coronavirus death toll <p> Communist-run Cuba said this week that use of two drugs produced by its biotech industry that reduce hyper-inflammation in seriously ill Covid-19 patients has sharply curbed its coronavirus-related death toll . <p> Health authorities have reported just two virus-related deaths over the past nine days among more than 200 active cases on the Caribbean 's largest island , a sign they may have the worst of the outbreak under control . <p> The government , which hopes to increase its biopharmaceutical exports , has touted various drugs it produces for helping prevent infection with the new coronavirus and treating the Covid-19 disease it causes . <p> Peru extends protracted national lockdown until end of June <p> Peru on Friday extended its state of emergency and a nationwide lockdown to fight the coronavirus pandemic until the end of June , marking one of the longest periods of mandatory isolation in the world . <p> The Andean nation , which began the lockdown in mid-March , will have lived under it for more than 3-1/2 months by a June 30 expiration , outlasting restrictions in Italy , Spain and China , some of the hardest hit countries in the pandemic . <p> Friday 's extension , announced by President Martin Vizcarra , came as Peru 's confirmed coronavirus cases rose to 111,698 , the second highest total in Latin America . <p> The death toll stood at 3,244 on Friday . <p> Africa coronavirus cases top 100,000 <p> Africa has now recorded more than 100,000 cases of coronavirus , according to an AFP tally drawn from official figures on Friday . <p> Across the continent , a total of 100,002 cases had been registered as of 1100 GMT Friday , of which 3,095 were fatal . <p> Countries in northern Africa have the highest death tolls , led by Egypt ( 696 deaths from 15,003 cases ) and Algeria ( 575 deaths from 7,728 cases ) . <p> South of the Sahara , the highest tolls have been in South Africa ( 397 deaths out of 20,125 cases ) and Nigeria ( 211 deaths , 7,016 cases ) . <p> The continent-wide figure is far behind that of the United States , with 1,577,758 cases , 96,978 of them deaths , and Europe , with 1,974,501 cases and 171,011 deaths . <p> Turkey imposes 4-day curfew across country <p> Turkey imposed a four-day nationwide curfew during the Muslim Eid holiday beginning Friday midnight to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus pandemic that has claimed over 4,200 lives in the country . <p> Markets , grocery stores , greengrocers , and butchers will continue to operate from 10 am to 5 pm local time ( 0700-1400GMT ) on May 23 , but they will be closed on May 24-26. 
@@61881975 <h> The UAE 's Etihad Airways has sent a plane of aid to Israel , purportedly carrying sixteen tons of aid for Palestinians . <p> Israeli media has hailed a historic flight that has flown between the United Arab Emirates ( UAE ) , and Tel Aviv , landing at Ben-Gurion Airport , 9PM on Tuesday 19 May . <p> The Etihad cargo jet , which was not carrying its identifiable hallmark logos , is the first-known direct flight between the countries . <p> The UAE does n't officially recognise Israel , however , the UN-facilitated flight was on an apparent humanitarian mission carrying sixteen tons of aid inbound for the occupied Palestinian territories . <p> A lack of diplomatic ties between Israel and the UAE has n't stopped either side from attempting to open lines of communication . <p> In an interview last year , the UAE Minister of State for Foreign Affairs , Anwar Gargash , told the UAE-based newspaper , The National , " Many , many years ago , when there was an Arab decision not to have contact with Israel , that was a very , very wrong decision , looking back . " <p> Before the coronavirus pandemic struck , Israel was expecting to participate in the Dubai Expo 2020 for the first time . <p> Iranian Supreme Leader , Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , has , however , condemned the first flight between the two countries as a form of " treachery " and a " betrayal " of the Palestinian people . <p> On Twitter , Khamenei said : " Today , some Persian Gulf states have committed the biggest treachery against their own history and the history of the Arab world . They have betrayed #Palestine by supporting Israel . " <p> Today , some Persian Gulf states have committed the biggest treachery against their own history and the history of the Arab world . They have betrayed #Palestine by supporting Israel . Will the nations of these states tolerate their leaders ' betrayal ? <p> The move also sparked a Twitter hashtag #BoycottUAE with many online social media users seeing the move as an attempt towards normalisation between the countries . <p> In a statement , the Etihad spokeswoman said , " Etihad Airways operated a dedicated humanitarian cargo flight from Abu Dhabi to Tel Aviv on May 19 to provide medical supplies to the Palestinians , " adding that there were no passengers on board . <p> Palestinians officials have not confirmed receiving the UAE shipment and it is unclear whether any of the aid will go to occupied Gaza that suffers the most from a crippling blockade ruled by Hamas and hated by the Gulf monarchy . <p> Only Egypt and Jordan openly recognise Israel in the region , while no other Middle Eastern countries officially maintain ties with the country . <p> The position to boycott Israel has been waning in recent years as even countries like Saudi Arabia under the Crown Prince Mohammed Bin Salman , are warming to the idea of a normalisation of ties between its two countries . 
@@61885217 <p> Academy Award and Emmy winning director Guy Davidi will be the latest film industry professional to present at Film In Limerick 's Wednesday Workshop online . <p> The Oscar-nominated and Emmy Award-winning director will join Film in Limerick on Wednesday 27 May 2020 at2pm for a free online film masterclass on directing documentary films . <p> The masterclass is the latest in the Wednesday Workshops series and is open to anyone in the Mid-West with an interest in filmmaking and is supported by Innovate Limerick and Limerick and Clare Education and Training Board . <p> Guy Davidi , has been making films since the age of 16 in his native Israel . After several years working as a camera operator , he began directing documentaries that focused on everyday life in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . <p> His short documentary ' In Working Progress ' , dealt with the issue of Palestinian construction workers who worked in Israeli settlements and his 2008 film ' A Gift from Heaven documented the lives of foreign workers on Israeli farms who work under rocket fire from Gaza . <p> In 2012 , he directed his second feature ' 5 Broken Cameras ' , co-directed with Palestinian director Emad Burnat . The film was a huge hit on the film festival circuit . <p> It was nominated for an Academy Award in 2013 in the Best Documentary section and won the Emmy for Best Documentary in the same year . <p> The film also won Davidi the Best Director award at the Sundance Film Festival and the Audience and Jury awards at IDFA in Amsterdam and well as more than 40 other awards internationally . <p> ' 5 Broken Cameras ' is a first-hand account of protests in Bil'in , a West Bank village affected by the Israeli West Bank barrier . Mostly filmed by Palestinian farmer Emad Burnat , the film is structured around the destruction of Burnat 's cameras and follows one family 's evolution over five years of turmoil . <p> The film was described by A.O. Scott in the New York Times as " a rigorous and moving work of art " and by Peter Bradshaw in the Guardian as " a powerful personal testimony : the kind of material that never makes the nightly news . " <p> Now based in Copenhagen , Davidi continues to make films that focus on Israel 's occupation of Palestine and he is currently completing a new feature documentary ' Senseless ' , which delves into the mindset of Israeli soldiers during their military service . <p> With his extensive experience of documentary directing , Davidi will share his journey and insights in developing and filming documentary stories and on how to develop a career in documentary filmmaking . <p> In advance of the workshop , Film in Limerick is also offering attendees the chance to watch the Oscar-nominated ' 5 Broken Cameras ' for free . All those who register for the workshop will receive a private link to watch the film before the workshop . <p> The event is part of a series of free online Wednesday Workshops events that Film in Limerick has developed for aspiring and practicing filmmakers in the Mid-West . The initiative is supported by Limerick and Clare Education and Training Board . <h> Classified Ads <p> Limerick Post News is your local news , entertainment , business , fashion website . We provide you with the latest breaking news from Limerick and surrounding areas . Since 1986 , we print 50,000 newspapers every week and distribute throughout Limerick City , County and beyond . Pick up your free copy today ! <p> This website uses cookies to improve your experience . We 'll assume you 're ok with this , but you can opt-out if you wish.AcceptRejectRead More <p> Privacy &amp; Cookies Policy <h> Privacy Overview <p> This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website . Out of these cookies , the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website . We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website . These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent . You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies . But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience . <p> Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly . This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website . These cookies do not store any personal information . <p> Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics , ads , other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies . It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website . <p> We are continuing to publish the Limerick Post both in print and online for the foreseeable future . <p> We believe our print circulation and digital presence can play a significant role in keeping the public informed with accurate and relevant content during these challenging times . If you have any information you wish to share with the public , please contact us by email at email protected 
@@61896289 <p> After eight years of experimentation , Gazan farmer Massoud al-Zane has succeeded in growing feijoa for the first time in Palestine , according to a report from Al-Monitor . <p> Feijoa is the fruit of the acca sellowiana , a small tree commonly found in Brazil and northern Argentina that produces guava-shaped green fruit rich iodine and antioxidants . <p> According to Zane , he obtained feijoa seeds from the Ministry of Agriculture back in 2009 , when farmers were tasked with experimenting with the seeds in various locations in the Gaza Strip . <p> Zane said that the warm weather in Gaza suited the tree 's growth , since it is able to withstand high temperatures , cold spells and high water salinity . The tree is also rarely infected with pests , allowing growers to make a higher profit by eschewing pesticides . <p> " In 2009 , we brought hundreds of feijoa seeds from Argentina to test them in different farms and nurseries owned by local farmers , " said Nizar al-Wahidi , director of water at the Ministry of Agriculture . " Only today can we say that we succeeded in producing the first fruits of this shrub . " <p> According to Wahidi , the effort is part of the Ministry of Agriculture 's plan to diversify crops in the Gaza Strip and promote those that are compatible with Gaza 's water salinity and freshwater scarcity . <p> " Feijoa depends on saline water , unlike many fruits that drain the available freshwater in Gaza , " he said . " Therefore , growing feijoa could be a successful project that contributes to reviving the national economy once hundreds of dunams are cultivated to satisfy local market and international demands . " <p> " The Ministry of Agriculture is currently planning to increase feijoa production and launch a media campaign to tell citizens about it in order to encourage local consumption , " said Wahidi . <p> In November , Gaza 's Ministry of Agriculture revealed that pineapples , broccoli and beetroot had also been produced in Gaza for the first time . <p> As Zane looks to expand production of feijoa , his greatest concern remains a future military assault on Gaza by Israel . The war in 2014 resulted in agricultural losses of US$550m , according to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Palestinian NGO Network . 
@@61898895 <h> Palestinians living under Israeli military occupation have long dealt with the kind of brutality being enacted by some US police officers against African-Americans . <p> A now infamous image of a white police officer kneeling on the neck of an African-American man , who would later die , has caused global outrage and violent unrest across the US . <p> Caught on video , George Floyd 's death was seemingly the straw that broke the camel 's back in that it came after several other high profile killings of several other African-Americans either by police or suspects who did not face immediate legal consequences . <p> For one community , the disproportionate violence faced by black people at the hands of US police forces has special resonance as it reflects their own experiences with the authorities . <p> For Palestinians living under military occupation in East Jerusalem and the occupied West Bank , the worst excesses of the kind seen in the US recently , are a near everyday occurrence . <p> In the aftermath of Floyd 's killing , Palestinians were quick to draw parallels between the final images of the man suffering under the knee of the officer , and similar choke holds used by Israel occupation forces . <p> " Crazy how the same thing happens in Palestine but the world chooses to ignore it , " Palestinian athlete Mohammad Alqadi wrote on his Twitter above four separate images of Israeli soldiers pinning Palestinians to the ground with their knees on their necks or head . <p> Killings of Palestinians by Israeli forces are also a regular occurrence : in 2019 , 135 Palestinians were killed by Israeli forces with 108 in Gaza and another 27 in the West Bank , according to the UN . <p> The similarities do not end there , as some activists have drawn parallels between the way US police have handled protests against police brutality in the aftermath of Floyd 's death and the way Israel has dealt with protests in Gaza . <p> Such comparisons come with caveats , as US police officers despite the controversy over their tactics have yet to kill anywhere near the numbers Israel killed in the Gaza right of return protests in 2018 , for example . Nevertheless , some of the tactics used are the same , according to pro-Palestinian groups . <p> On Twitter , the BDS and Palestinian Solidarity working group within the Democratic Socialists of America wrote : " The police violence happening tonight in Minneapolis is straight out of the IDF playbook . How many times have we seen uprisings in Gaza met w/ a storm of tear gas ? How many times are Palestinians in the West Bank doused w/ skunk water during a protest ? US cops train in Israel . " <p> Amnesty International has warned that hundreds of police departments have been training in Israeli alongside military officers , who " have racked up documented human rights violations for years . " <p> The rights group notes that one of the departments involved in the training , the Baltimore Police Department , had been cited by the US Department of Justice for " widespread constitutional violations , discriminatory enforcement , and culture of retaliation . " <p> Both Amnesty and the US State Department have cited incidences of Israeli security officials engaging in brutality against Palestinians . <p> The rights group said : " Baltimore and other police departments should find partners that will train on de-escalation techniques , how to handle mentally challenged or ill citizens , on the constitutional rights of citizens concerning filming and how to appropriately respond to those using non-violent protest to express their opinions . Israel is not such a partner . " <p> Palestinian activist Huda Ammori of the Apartheid off Campus group told TRT World that such links between " militarised " US police forces and the Israeli security establishment emphasised the need for unity between African-Americans and Palestinians . <p> " We 're seeing the oppressors united with their training , their same techniques . Between the Black Lives Matter community and the Palestinian community , and other communities across the world , we need to unite to fight against these systems . " Ammori said . <p> " It 's the same systems of oppression that are affecting all of these communities ... we must fight back together . " 
