@@71909977 <p> The Home Affairs Department is behind a clandestine scheme to recruit ' Good Muslims ' to promote a uniform government line within their communities . By Shakira Hussein . <p> Dutton 's secret propaganda unit <p> Minister for Home Affairs Peter Dutton . <p> Credit : AAP Image / Mick Tsikas <p> The email from Mustafa was friendly , cheerful and littered with signifiers of our shared Muslim identity . <p> Opening with " Salam Alukum Shakira " , Mustafa introduced himself as the influence manager at Breakthrough Media , " a communications agency that prides itself on telling great stories to help address complex social issues " . Breakthrough , he told me , was planning to hold a Twitter training initiative in Sydney for " a diverse group of Australians , in particular Australian Muslims " . <p> This event was " based on requests from members of the Australian Muslim community , who have advised us that a program that builds up the capacity of emerging and established leaders , especially on a platform such as Twitter , is a necessity in today 's political climate " . Given my " excellent academic background " and Twitter profile -- " I 'm one of your many Twitter followers hehe " -- I was regarded as a " perfect fit " for this initiative . And not to worry , Breakthrough would pay for my flights from Melbourne . <p> At first glance , Mustafa 's invitation sounded routine enough . However , Breakthrough Media is far from a routine presence on the landscape of Muslim community politics in Australia . The communications company 's relationship with the British Home Office has been the subject of lengthy investigative reports in The Guardian and by the advocacy organisation Cage , but its Australian branch has attracted little scrutiny since it was established in 2016 . <p> In deflecting attention away from critical voices and towards a supposed consensus of contentment , it serves a clear propaganda purpose . <p> In Britain , The Guardian 's 2016 report noted that the Home Office used Breakthrough Media to " promote a reconciled British Muslim identity " while keeping its involvement hidden , as " any content or messaging attributed to the state are highly unlikely to have any credibility among these audiences " . The work was described as a series of " clandestine propaganda campaigns " . Young Muslims were commissioned to run a government line , without ever knowing it was the government commissioning them . <p> My invitation to Breakthrough Media 's Twitter training event did not disclose any similar relationship with the Australian government . However , concealed in the eight-page registration survey Mustafa asked me to fill in , among the questions about dietary requirements and social media use , was a line saying the project was " a partnership between State and Federal governments , the Australian government 's Department of Home Affairs and the Office of the eSafety Commissioner " . Deep in the forms , it noted that the Countering Violent Extremism Sub-Committee , under the Australian New Zealand Counter-Terrorism Committee , " funds this project " . <p> The survey asked respondents to confirm we were prepared to meet a list of expectations for participants in the " Voice Accelerator Workshop " , including that we were willing to be active on Twitter and attend the workshop , that we were " willing to assess opportunities , supported by Breakthrough , to participate in online discussions that align with your interests " , and that we share " the values of the project , which are : Courage , Participation , Diversity , Respect , Connection , Expression , Accuracy " . It asked that we " respect Breakthrough 's need to be politically neutral , while we respect everyone 's right to express their political opinion " . Wondering whether anyone would actually self-identify as being opposed to motherhood values such as courage and respect , I ticked " yes " . <p> A few weeks later , I arrived at a harbour-side conference venue in Woolloomooloo . The 30-odd participants were seated at designated tables of four or five as Mustafa -- a young man , smartly dressed in a suit and tie -- introduced himself as our MC . He told us that others in the room included Muslim and non-Muslim sportspeople , academics and people who worked in the business and tech sectors , from Perth , Adelaide , Melbourne , Canberra and Sydney -- all potential positive influencers . Mustafa was " a bit of an influencer " having built up a large Twitter following , posting about his favourite football team . He loved football , pasta , curry and sunsets on the beach . All food served on the day would of course be halal and prayer space was available . <p> The overall theme of the day was that " divisive commentators " were having a negative effect on Australian society , that Muslims were bearing the brunt of this , and that it was important for voices like " ours " to be heard . With no mention of the fact the government funded this program , we were informed : " We know that Muslim communities are often the most overlooked or misrepresented in the online space . Governments alone can not redirect these narratives , but they can support those who do so . " <p> I recognised several familiar faces among the participants -- Muslim academics , postgraduate students and community leaders . I was seated at a table with a middle-aged male Muslim academic and a young Muslim man wearing a football jersey . We had been told that we might be photographed or filmed at the workshop , and photographers and camera crews were discreetly visible in the background . <p> In itself , most of the content presented at the workshop would not have been contentious for most Muslims living in Australia . Aside from a session from the adviser to the Office of the eSafety Commissioner , the various presentations were led by external private providers and were probably similar to those provided to their corporate clients on media diversity , Twitter training , and resilience training . Yet I was left feeling deeply concerned by the workshop and by Breakthrough 's shadowy role in Australian public discourse . <p> Just as the disclosure about the workshop 's funding had been hidden deep in the pre-workshop survey , we were also fleetingly told that " a representative of the federal government " was attending the workshop , without being told the name of the department concerned . After directly asking Breakthrough staff for more information , I was told that the representative -- Fiona Crawford of the Department of Home Affairs -- would be happy to answer my questions . Crawford is a former executive producer for ABC News , a former Liberal National Party staffer in Peter Dutton 's home state of Queensland and an unsuccessful LNP Queensland Senate candidate in the 2016 federal election . Her presence at the Voice Accelerator workshop and her background in media made me wonder just how closely Dutton 's Home Affairs department was working with Breakthrough in shaping its " positive social impact through communications " . <p> Breakthrough 's work in both Australia and Britain forms part of the campaign to " counter violent extremism " -- a contentious strategy that seeks to enlist community organisations , educational institutions , service providers and individuals in promoting a model of good citizenship to Muslims and isolating not only those individuals and organisations who are suspected of undertaking a criminal offence , but also those who are regarded as " at risk " of radicalisation and whose ideology is seen as aligning with extremism . <p> One of Breakthrough 's most visible Australian projects is the social media channel RAPT . RAPT describes itself as " a social news channel that explores , discovers and celebrates the stories of young Australians from mainstream and multicultural communities " . The channel is produced by Breakthrough Media and says it " is built on successful partnerships between the Australian government , communities , civil society groups and individuals , taking a grassroots approach in assisting people to tell their stories , celebrate their achievements , and speak out against violence " . <p> I realised when researching Breakthrough that several videos and memes from RAPT had appeared in my Facebook feed after being shared by friends who almost certainly were unaware of any connection to the Home Affairs Department . The content is lighthearted and feel-good and does not have any obvious political agenda . And yet in deflecting attention away from critical voices and towards a supposed consensus of contentment , it serves a clear propaganda purpose . <p> One video features Yassmin Abdel-Magied talking about how to combat unconscious bias and " hustle a job " . It was made shortly before her appearance on ABC TV 's Q&amp;A and the Anzac Day tweet that made her , in her own words , " the most hated Muslim in Australia " . Abdel-Magied confirms that Breakthrough approached her to produce the video but did not disclose its relationship with government . <p> " They initially emailed and as they 'd been given my name through someone I knew , I thought there was no harm in getting involved , " she told me . " I did n't know that they were funded by government at all actually -- they simply said they were ' a social news channel that celebrates the diversity of the next generations of Australians and has a particular focus on strengthening the ties between Muslim and non-Muslim Australians ' . <p> " I was intrigued , but did n't ask too many questions ... They seemed nice , a bit vague about how they 'd started or who they were , but seemed to have good intentions , which gave me some level of comfort . I do n't recall someone from government being there -- at least , there was no one introduced like that . " <p> Mustafa closed the day by telling us we could drop our lanyards into a bucket , to signal that we were willing to accept weekly packages of information in our various areas of interest . These areas were broken down as news and current affairs , sport , arts and culture , science and technology . The idea was that we would share this weekly information on social media and help to push out positive messages . Those messages , I now understand , would be the government line for Muslims . The ' 80s power anthem " Nothing 's Gon na Stop Us Now " blasted through the speakers as we were sent out into the world to make our voices heard -- or rather , to make Breakthrough 's voice heard . <p> I chose " news and current affairs " as the topic for my information package . The first two weeks of content were remarkably apolitical . The focus of the first package was Ramadan , with a series of tweets from Muslims around the world , followed by a package on the British royal wedding and then a notification of the pending appearance by Randa Abdel-Fattah on that week 's episode of Q&amp;A -- which , we were reminded , was an important time of the week for any aspiring " influencers " to be online . The list of likely topics for discussion did not mention the United States embassy 's move to Jerusalem or the killing of Palestinian protesters in Gaza . <p> The workshop participants were repeatedly assured that our participation was voluntary , that we could withdraw at any point , and that we were under no obligation to share material unless we thought that it was worth endorsing . These reassurances seemed odd . It would not have occurred to me that I was under any obligation to share content from an organisation that was not employing me and with whom I had never had any contractual relationship . <p> Of course , sharing this content is the point . As in Britain , Peter Dutton 's department is hoping to shape a unified voice for Good Muslims . This unified voice is propaganda . <p> The Department of Home Affairs did not respond to The Saturday Paper 's questions about Breakthrough or the risk that concealing this contract poses to relations between the government and the Muslim community . A spokeswoman for the department offered a question rather than an answer : " When 's your absolute deadline ? " <p> This article was first published in the print edition of The Saturday Paper on Jun 9 , 2018 as " Dutton 's secret propaganda unit " . <p> A free press is one you pay for . In the short term , the economic fallout from coronavirus has taken about a third of our revenue . We will survive this crisis , but we need the support of readers . Now is the time to subscribe . <p> Shakira Hussein is a writer and researcher based at the University of Melbourne . She is the author of From Victims to Suspects . <p> Margaret Simons Australian supermarkets are vulnerable to shocks , as lockdown panic buying showed , but the government has known about these weaknesses since at least 2012 . It is true that Australia produces more food than we can eat , but it is also true that we are not self-sufficient in groceries -- if by that we mean the contents of the average supermarket trolley . <p> Sarah Price Jess Hill 's incisive examination of domestic violence saw the journalist win the coveted Stella Prize last month . But the four-year project also took an immense personal toll . " All that advice about self-care ... I did n't do any of it . I almost pointedly did n't do it . I thought : ' You need to feel , even just one iota of the pain and suffering the people you are talking to are feeling . ' If I was feeling really relaxed and detached from it , I would n't be able to write about it in the way I wanted to ... I sort of had to inhabit it . " <p> Jane Caro As a long-term campaigner for disadvantaged students and the schools that overwhelmingly enrol them -- public schools -- I was gobsmacked this week by the sudden concern our federal government expressed for these students , and the risk they are getting left behind during the Covid-19 lockdown . <p> Paul Bongiorno Australia 's relationship with its biggest trading partner , China , has plunged to depths not seen since formal recognition of the Communist-governed state 48 years ago . The stakes for Canberra could not be higher , with business leaders and exporters privately furious at the government 's bumbling diplomatic performance over China and coronavirus . <p> Richard Ackland Lord Moloch 's press is leaving no stone unturned in letting a couple of confirmed Trumble detractors give a vigorous " welcome " to the former PM 's book A Bigger Picture . Last Thursday , The Daily Smellograph treated us to an analysis by Peter King , a former member for Wentworth , trounced by Trumble in a bitter preselection in 2003 , amid accusations of branch stacking and branch stripping . <p> The worst part of madness is that it hurts other people . These are the kindest words that can be said about Clive Palmer 's newspaper ads , claiming he has bought 32.9 million doses of hydroxychloroquine to treat Covid-19 . <p> Rick Morton Many are still waiting to rebuild their homes that were destroyed during the Black Summer , but experts have told the bushfire royal commission and parliamentary inquiry that the climate crisis will leave more people vulnerable to disaster . <p> Miriam Cosic Sydney Chamber Opera 's Breaking Glass comprises four exciting new works , in which Australian women composers reimagine the myth of Odysseus , the story of the night parrot , and works by Sylvia Plath and Margaret Atwood . <p> Vivian Pham The sun had barely rotated out of bed by the time the bakers had begun rolling croissants , the baristas singing out orders , and the second-hand bookstore owners prudently applying dust to their first editions . It was just another morning in a suburb of restored heritage properties , and the air , having been buttered and brewed into a naturally occurring atmosphere , made the moustached men strolling around Redfern feel as though they could be anywhere at all , excluding where they actually were . <p> Adam Burnett The demise of the chief executives of Rugby Australia and the NRL came in quick succession on the back of the Covid-19 catastrophe . But the pandemic may have just given the sports ' governing bodies the excuse they were looking for . <p> Margaret Simons Australian supermarkets are vulnerable to shocks , as lockdown panic buying showed , but the government has known about these weaknesses since at least 2012 . It is true that Australia produces more food than we can eat , but it is also true that we are not self-sufficient in groceries -- if by that we mean the contents of the average supermarket trolley . <p> Sarah Price Jess Hill 's incisive examination of domestic violence saw the journalist win the coveted Stella Prize last month . But the four-year project also took an immense personal toll . " All that advice about self-care ... I did n't do any of it . I almost pointedly did n't do it . I thought : ' You need to feel , even just one iota of the pain and suffering the people you are talking to are feeling . ' If I was feeling really relaxed and detached from it , I would n't be able to write about it in the way I wanted to ... I sort of had to inhabit it . " <p> Jane Caro As a long-term campaigner for disadvantaged students and the schools that overwhelmingly enrol them -- public schools -- I was gobsmacked this week by the sudden concern our federal government expressed for these students , and the risk they are getting left behind during the Covid-19 lockdown . <p> Paul Bongiorno Australia 's relationship with its biggest trading partner , China , has plunged to depths not seen since formal recognition of the Communist-governed state 48 years ago . The stakes for Canberra could not be higher , with business leaders and exporters privately furious at the government 's bumbling diplomatic performance over China and coronavirus . <p> Richard Ackland Lord Moloch 's press is leaving no stone unturned in letting a couple of confirmed Trumble detractors give a vigorous " welcome " to the former PM 's book A Bigger Picture . Last Thursday , The Daily Smellograph treated us to an analysis by Peter King , a former member for Wentworth , trounced by Trumble in a bitter preselection in 2003 , amid accusations of branch stacking and branch stripping . <p> The worst part of madness is that it hurts other people . These are the kindest words that can be said about Clive Palmer 's newspaper ads , claiming he has bought 32.9 million doses of hydroxychloroquine to treat Covid-19 . <p> Rick Morton Many are still waiting to rebuild their homes that were destroyed during the Black Summer , but experts have told the bushfire royal commission and parliamentary inquiry that the climate crisis will leave more people vulnerable to disaster . <p> Miriam Cosic Sydney Chamber Opera 's Breaking Glass comprises four exciting new works , in which Australian women composers reimagine the myth of Odysseus , the story of the night parrot , and works by Sylvia Plath and Margaret Atwood . <p> Vivian Pham The sun had barely rotated out of bed by the time the bakers had begun rolling croissants , the baristas singing out orders , and the second-hand bookstore owners prudently applying dust to their first editions . It was just another morning in a suburb of restored heritage properties , and the air , having been buttered and brewed into a naturally occurring atmosphere , made the moustached men strolling around Redfern feel as though they could be anywhere at all , excluding where they actually were . <p> Adam Burnett The demise of the chief executives of Rugby Australia and the NRL came in quick succession on the back of the Covid-19 catastrophe . But the pandemic may have just given the sports ' governing bodies the excuse they were looking for . 
@@71912911 <p> US Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel touched down in Sydney today for the annual AUSMIN meetings between Australian and US foreign policy and defence leaders , which start tomorrow . There will be no shortage of crises for the leaders to discuss , from coup rumours in Baghdad to the ongoing conflicts in Gaza and Ukraine . Leaders will also sign off on existing force posture agreements that permit the rotational presence of US Marines and the US Air Force in northern Australia . <p> But the long term issue of most importance to the alliance which needs to be discussed this year is the future force posture of the US Navy in Australia . <p> At the 2012 AUSMIN in Perth , then Australian Defence Minister Stephen Smith said that the growing strategic importance of the Indian Ocean was leading the US Navy to shift its attention to the waters off Australia 's northwest coast . That AUSMIN meeting committed a joint working group of Australian and US officials to investigate options for the additional presence of US Navy vessels on Australia 's west coast . A formal study did n't begin until December 2013 , and the group will report its finding to the leaders over the next few days with a view to forging a way forward to new naval force posture arrangements . <p> In a sense , the presence of the US Navy in Western Australia is nothing new . US Navy Expeditionary Strike and Carrier Groups have been visiting the port at HMAS Stirling for decades . But the shift in economic power within Asia , the modernisation of the Chinese and Indian militaries , and the growing importance of energy transit routes through the Malacca Straits is leading US strategic planners to think more about the potential for crisis in Southeast Asia . <p> Two recent studies from the Center for Strategic and International Studies and RAND Corporation , both supporting the ongoing US global force posture review , concern themselves with the need to move large numbers of US Marine Corps troops into Southeast Asia . Both endorse the expansion of the Marine Rotational Force-Darwin into a full-size Marine Air/Ground Task Force and then consider further naval and maritime intelligence , surveillance , and reconnaissance initiatives which might be appropriate . The CSIS report considers the presence of a US Carrier Group in Western Australia , but dismisses it as too expensive , given the near US$6 billion cost of facilities upgrades . <p> Both reports mention the possibility of home-porting a US nuclear submarine at HMAS Stirling . This option is attractive , given HMAS Stirling hosts one of the few Mark 48 Torpedo Maintenance Facilities in the southern hemisphere and so can recondition and resupply submarine munitions . The Royal Australian Navy also has readily accessible underwater exercise areas and submarine rescue training facilities at HMAS Stirling . <p> However , the most likely force posture option under discussion is for the future rotational presence of a US Amphibious Ready Group ( ARG ) at HMAS Stirling . The Marines based in Darwin will need some kind of sea-lift if they are to operate in Southeast Asia , and it makes more sense to base this in Western Australia than in other nearby locations . The US Chief of Naval Operations last year flagged his intent to raise another ARG in the lower Pacific region . Local political considerations in both the US and Australia would make home-porting the ARG in Perth difficult , but a rotational presence would make sense . <p> This would require some additional berthing infrastructure at HMAS Stirling , as well as the possible construction of additional ramp space at nearby airfields , but it is far less costly than other options . For the US , this would preposition assets closer to potential trouble spots , diversify basing ( particularly outside of the range of potential adversary missile systems ) , and allow an enhanced and more regular Indian Ocean and Southeast Asian presence , using fewer vessels than if a forward presence was n't available . <p> Australian leaders will need to make more of a case for why this option needs to be explored and how the alliance is evolving . Currently , questions regarding force posture are met with relatively simple endorsements of the strength and shared vision of the US alliance . That cedes much of the ground in the discussion to strident critics such as former Prime Minister Malcolm Fraser , who argues that Australia should withdraw from the alliance entirely . At this AUSMIN , it is not only important to work through the options privately , but to discuss how to make a detailed public case for why such steps are beneficial to both countries . 
@@71913228 <h> Simone van Nieuwenhuizen <p> Simone van Nieuwenhuizen is a researcher at the Australia-China Relations Institute at the University of Technology Sydney . She is co-author , with Kerry Brown , of China and the New Maoists ( Zed , 2016 ) . Simone holds a Master of International Relations ( Diplomacy ) from Peking University and lived in China for three years . She was previously a Research Associate at the Lowy Institute and an intern with the West Asia Program , and has also interned at the Carnegie-Tsinghua Center for Global Policy in Beijing . Her research interests include Chinese politics , China-Middle East relations and North Korea . She speaks Chinese and Arabic , and is learning Russian . <p> For China , 2016 is a year of anniversaries . It 's been 95 years since the founding of the Chinese Communist Party ( CCP ) , 50 years since the beginning of the Cultural Revolution , and 40 years since the death of Mao Zedong , Communist China 's founding father . More than ever , the CCP is fighting for control over its historical narrative . <p> Despite China 's long-standing diplomatic principle of non-intervention in the internal affairs of other states , Beijing can not completely control its citizens ' involvement in terrorist activity abroad . <p> China wants to play an active and constructive role in achieving peace in the Middle East . That 's what Liu Jieyi , China 's permanent representative to the UN , recently said when reiterating Foreign Minister Wang Yi 's ' Five Point Proposal ' promoting an end to violence in Gaza . <p> Stay informed with the latest commentary and analysis on international events from experts at the Lowy Institute and around the world . 
@@71960422 <h> It 's a grab bag of ideas that is masking a bias <p> To submit a letter to The Age , email letters@theage.com.au . Please include your home address and telephone number . <p> As the world watched our recent bushfire conflagration , just before the COVID-19 crisis , international opprobrium about Australia 's recalcitrant approach to climate change was more than embarrassing . <p> Illustration : Michael Leunig <p> Given Australia 's lost decade of necessary action on energy management , there seemed a glimmer of hope when Labor recently indicated a willingness to bridge the political divide . However , Labor 's ambivalence still supports highly polluting thermal coal and gas mining . Minister for Energy and Emissions Reduction Angus Taylor 's " Technology Roadmap " is a grab bag of ideas that claims technological neutrality , but instead attempts to mask a bias that subsidises fossil fuels over cheaper renewables ( " Still in denial : cool reception for Australia 's carbon roadmap " , The Age , 23/5 ) . <p> The " roadmap " looks like a rather worn 1980s copy of Melway , useful back then but not up to date with changes that have occurred now that the community , scientists , and smart business are way ahead in looking to the future . The Coalition 's recycled ideas will not give us the cheap , reliable , and low-emission energy that it promises . You can only fool some of the people all of the time . <p> Advertisement <p> William Chandler , Surrey Hills <h> No grasp of the enormity of the crisis <p> The main criticism of minister Angus Taylor 's Technology Roadmap is that it is " ... essentially a survey of ( mostly ) green technologies ... " It also lacks overall vision and a specific plan with objectives to achieve the vision . <p> Angus Taylor shows no conception of the enormity of the climate crisis , and the consequent urgency and speediness from now on for climate action . It does seem like deliberate delaying and wheel spinning . He must do sincerely better well before the world climate meeting next year in Glasgow . <p> Barbara Fraser , Burwood <h> Bring on the dissent <p> David Crowe ( " This wo n't really change a thing " , Comment , 22/5 ) says the coronavirus crisis is a " pivotal moment to move beyond the fractured politics of the past decade " , but then adds , " the next stage of the crisis is more likely to be about dissent than consensus " . <p> If the best the Morrison government can do concerning climate policy is a proposed " technology investment roadmap " with gas , a highly polluting fossil fuel and driver of climate change , the centrepiece of its economic recovery plan , plus unproven and expensive carbon capture and small-scale nuclear reactors , then bring it on . <p> Our climate and energy policy has been a disaster for a decade or more , designed primarily to protect and reward fossil fuel donors . On Four Corners last week , Ken Henry said he " still feels gutted ... and angry " from the past decade of climate politics . Pity more Australians do n't share that anger . <p> Neil Hudson , East Melbourne <h> It 's embarrassing and terrifying <p> That old saying , " there 's none so blind as those who will not see " could be applied to our government in relation to the real and present dangers of climate change , but do n't take my word for it . According to the 2020 climate change performance index , " of the 57 nations it considered , it ranked Australia as having the absolute worst climate change policy " ( The Age , 23/5 ) , and yet our government is still in denial . <p> It 's not only embarrassing being in this position , it is also terrifying if you think about it . <p> Rosemary Taylor , Castlemaine , <h> The technology is not scalable <p> The most technically difficult part of the response to climate change is not the reduction of emissions , but rather the removal of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere . We already have the technology to do the former , but have no scalable technology to do the latter , indeed we seem not to understand the crucial importance of the latter . <p> Perhaps carbon capture and storage ( CCS ) could be a useful technology , but only if it is employed to remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere , but to use CCS in conjunction with the burning of fossil fuel is idiotic . <p> Maurie Trewhella , Hoppers Crossing <h> THE FORUM <h> Priceless joy <p> I really enjoyed Tony Wright 's ( " Putting a stamp on the lockdown " , Insight , The Age , 23/5 ) . <p> My son , who has Down syndrome , has enjoyed writing letters to his nieces and nephews ( whom he has missed so much ) during this lockdown and the joy on their faces when they a ) received a letter in the mail and b ) when they realised it was from Uncle Damien , has been priceless , according to their parents . <p> Let 's never lose this ability to give such pleasure <p> Jean Christie , Rye <h> Support arts workers <p> Under the Coalition , the arts have suffered numerous funding cuts and no longer even have a dedicated arts minister . <p> Furthermore , the treatment of workers in the arts community by the government during the pandemic has been deplorable . <p> While many workers have been able to access JobKeeper payments , predominantly ALP- and Greens-supporting arts workers have been denied any financial support despite the enormous contribution they make to our society . <p> Thanks to the massive bungle made by the government in its mismanagement of the JobKeeper scheme , some of the not-to-be used $60 billion the government has earmarked should now be used to provide income support for our arts community . <p> Dean Wotherspoon , Northcote <h> Asleep at the wheel <p> The problem is not the calculation error that means JobKeeper will cost the government $60 billion less than originally anticipated . The problem is the lack of awareness from the government in accepting the original JobKeeper numbers and the fact that it must now reframe the whole economic strategy that was wrapped around this initial calculation . <p> Loan repayment strategies , expenditure levels on other government services , mooted tax policy changes , national minimum wage submissions , ongoing amounts and entitlements to JobSeeker and JobKeeper payments , opportunities for action on climate change and social housing , etc . <p> Forget the government mantra about their skilled economic management . They were asleep at the wheel on this occasion just as they have been in so many other areas in recent years . <p> Peter Thomson , Brunswick <h> It 's hardly surprising <p> There is currently much angst regarding the Australia-China relationship . <p> This should come as no surprise given the series of cautionary articles written in 2015 by Geoff Wade , at that time a visiting fellow at the Crawford School of Public Policy , ANU . <p> He concluded that " within the lifetimes of our children , there will be a rapid hollowing out of Australia 's domestic industrial structure in many major spheres -- construction , extractive industries , manufacturing and agriculture . The Australian economy will thereby become something of an offshore appendage to the Chinese economy " . <p> Why , then , did our policymakers not take heed of such warnings ? <p> Joe Wilder , Caulfield North <h> The real blow is this <p> The most devastating blow against the two-state solution is n't annexation , it 's the 20 years Palestinian leaders have wasted by continually refusing Israeli offers to create a Palestinian state or , since 2014 , to even negotiate ( " We should raise our voices against land grab by Israel " , The Age , 23/5 ) . <p> Yasser Arafat said no to a state in July 2000 . <p> Current Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas rejected an offer from Israeli prime minister Ehud Olmert , which came five days before he resigned the prime ministership and with Israel 's elections still a few months away , that included the equivalent of 100per cent of the West Bank , Gaza and a shared capital in Jerusalem in 2008 . An offer the Palestinians were lucky to get , given how soon it followed the murder of 1000 Israelis in the Second Intifada . <p> Yes , Donald Trump 's peace plan -- 70 per cent of the West Bank and no capital in Jerusalem -- is far less than what the Palestinians could have had 12 years ago . <p> But these ongoing rejections -- which Anas Iqtait and Tristan Dunning ignored -- beg the question , what exactly are the Palestinians waiting for ? <p> Danny Samuels , Malvern <h> A chance to remember <p> Your article about Israel 's plans for the West Bank gives us the opportunity to remember that in 1947 , the United Nations voted to partition Palestine without any consultation with Palestinians . <p> In 1948 the State of Israel was proclaimed unilaterally . Seventy-two years later , May 15 , is commemorated by Palestinians as , " al-Nakba " , the " Day of Catastrophe " : Palestinians becoming refugees in their own land . In the same year , UN General Assembly Resolution 194 stated that refugees " wishing to ... live at peace with their neighbours " must be allowed to return or be compensated : this resolution continues to be defied by Israel to this day . Thus for more than 72 years Palestinians have accumulated death , suffering and the abuse of their human rights . <p> Now the government of Israel is proposing to annex part of the West Bank -- this is morally corrupt , as is the continued occupation of Palestine . As the article concludes : " When it comes to upholding international law and UN resolutions , Palestine should not be the exception . " <p> Judith Morrison , Mount Waverley <h> A great love story ... <p> Having read and digested the mighty tome A Bigger Picture , by the former prime minister , one has reflected and come to conclude that " the affair between Malcolm Turnbull and Malcolm Turnbull has to be one of the greatest love stories in Australian political life " . <p> Tony McNally , Melbourne <h> It 's time for a change <p> Until recently , I thought that I was an Australian -- a proud Australian . Now I am becoming aware that we , each of us in Australia , actually belong primarily to a smaller , seemingly autonomous federated state , not a cohesive country . <p> Of course there were indications before the COVID-19 crisis . The health system is a good example . The constant political bickering and blame-shifting between state and Commonwealth departments of health has had the effect of avoiding responsibility so that the ordinary citizen is left bewildered and often disadvantaged . <p> For myself , I want to be an Australian first , not a Victorian . I did n't vote with the knowledge that the state premiers see themselves as leaders of their own " countries " . I want a prime minister to lead our country and be held responsible at the next election . <p> As we emerge from the threat of COVID-19 , life has changed . Perhaps this change affords opportunities to reassess and possibly institute improvements in many aspects of our lives ? <p> The distribution of powers created in the late 19th century to enable federation , allowing the states to retain certain powers , should be re-evaluated by Australians . <p> Michael Grigg , Balwyn <h> Not just jobs for the boys <p> Your readers Tim Mahar and Peter Barry suggest major housing and energy construction as worthy areas of infrastructure to direct the newly available $60 billion ex-JobSeeker funding ( Letters , 24/5 ) . They are necessary and urgent areas of development , but where is the job creation for women in their suggestions ? <p> Given Wendy Tuohy 's depressing but important piece on women bearing more job loss in the pandemic in the same edition , it is vital there is job creation in female-friendly employment fields . <p> If men retort that there are avenues for women in healthcare and teaching , perhaps men needing to look for new vocations could consider teaching . <p> The public education system is in serious need of more male teachers in direct teaching roles as opposed to principal/management levels . <p> Diana Yallop , Surrey Hills <h> Not a good idea <p> Has the government considered all the implications of its proposed $50,000 grant to buyers of freshly built homes ? <p> I can see an exacerbation of what is happening in our suburb ( and many others ) -- that is , the demolition of perfectly sound , habitable homes and removal of trees to make way for large , ugly , environmentally unsound McMansions . The majority of the demolished home is not recycled and goes to landfill . <p> On the other hand , if this grant is to go to new homes on newly released land , there will be further devastation of our vital , ever-diminishing food-growing areas and our native vegetation . The building industry may need a boost , but is this the most intelligent way ? <p> Lu Thek , Glen Waverley <h> Ignoring the basics <p> It is absolutely clear that the authors of the JobKeeper documents at no stage did basic testing with end users before sending them out , which is why they were filled in " incorrectly " . With such large numbers being confused , the issue would have been highlighted in a very small sample . <p> The fault is not with employers but the public servants who clearly remain in another world , often using a language not common to those that pay their wages . <p> Sandy Richards , Port Melbourne <h> Numbers off from the start <p> The budget value of JobKeeper at $130 billion was declared when the program was announced , not when firms made their applications for the scheme ; applications simply had to happen after the budget amount was already in place . <p> Maybe this government , which can not run a bath , as I heard Opposition Leader Anthony Albanese say last week , should have asked the members of the national cabinet to run their eyes and calculators over the detail and not just endorse the headline number , and Josh Frydenberg and his merry Treasury men should not have gone it alone . <p> Simply , this government ca n't get much right -- by looking at this effort . <h> AND ANOTHER THING <h> Simples <h> Politics <p> So Target is closing stores that are underperforming and Nationals deputy leader David Littleproud tells people to boycott them . Really ? <p> Julie Carrick , Leopold <p> I suggest the Australian public boycott the National Party . <p> Kevin Ward , Preston <h> JobKeeper miscalculation <p> At least the $60 billion error was n't the other way around whereby the expected cost was $70 billion and the actual cost was $130 billion . <p> Alan Inchley , Frankston <p> Did n't the Treasury Secretary say earlier last week , before the stuff-up was revealed , that he was comfortable with the level of debt ? The line in the sand was $130 billion . This commitment must stand and the support broadened and lengthened. 
@@71961337 <p> Meanwhile , we 've seen thousands of retail job losses , with Wesfarmers announcing plans on Friday to close up to 75 Target stores around the country , and Myer finally reopening stores after nearly two months of closure . <h> Why the shopping frenzy ? <p> Online sales of many product categories have increased , including for food , winter clothes and toys . This is n't surprising given people still need to eat , winter is coming and we 're bored at home . <p> But beyond the fact most people are spending more time at home , there are a range of psychological factors behind the online shopping upheaval . <p> A 2013 study compared people living close to the Gaza-Israel border during a period of conflict with those from a central Israeli town that was n't under duress . The researchers found those living in the high-stress environment reported a higher degree of " materialism " and a desire to shop to relieve stress . <p> Another pleasant aspect of online shopping is it avoids the typical " pain of paying " experienced during in-person transactions . <p> Most people do n't enjoy parting with their money . But research has shown the psychological pain produced from spending money depends on the transaction type . The more tangible the transaction , the stronger the pain . <p> Even established brands are getting creative . For example , Burger King outlets in the US are offering free burgers to customers who use one of their billboards as a virtual backdrop during conference calls . <p> It 's important to control spending during this fraught time . Simple ways to do this include creating a budget , avoiding " buy now , pay later " schemes , recognising your spending " triggers " and planning ahead . <h> Want to comment ? <p> Send us anemail , making it clear which story you 're commenting on and including your full name ( required for publication ) and phone number ( only for verification purposes ) . Please put " Reader views " in the subject . <p> We 'll publish the best comments in a regular " Reader Views " post . Your comments can be brief , or we can accept up to 350 words , or thereabouts . <h> Help our journalists uncover the facts <p> In times like these InDaily provides valuable , local independent journalism in South Australia . As a news organisation it offers an alternative to The Advertiser , a different voice and a closer look at what is happening in our city and state for free . Any contribution to help fund our work is appreciated . Please click below to donate to InDaily. 
