@@61850305 <p> Libyan authorities are unable to halt the illicit trade in oil or the flow of weapons in and out of the country , and they need an international maritime force to help , United Nations sanctions monitors said in a new report . <p> The confidential report by the U.N . Security Council 's Panel of Experts on Libya , first seen by Reuters on Thursday , will likely increase pressure on major world powers to consider intervention to stop the North African state from spinning further out of control . " The capacity of Libya to physically prevent ( arms ) transfers is almost nonexistent and there is no authorization to enforce the arms embargo on the high seas or in the air as there were during the 2011 revolution , " the panel wrote in the report . <p> The 15-nation Security Council imposed an arms embargo on Libya in 2011 to stop delivery of weapons to the government of former leader Muammar Gaddafi during his crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrations . Under the embargo , the government can import munitions with approval of a council committee . " The absence of universal enforcement of the embargo , the very high demand for ( arms ) materiel and the resources and support available to fighting parties to procure materiel indicate that continuing large scale illicit trafficking is inevitable , " the report said . <p> The panel urged the Security Council to form an international maritime force " to assist the Libyan government in securing its territorial waters to prevent the entry into and exit from Libya of arms ... the illicit export of crude oil and its derivatives and other natural resources . " <p> The Libyan Mission to the United Nations was not immediately available to comment on the report . Reuters could not independently verify the allegations in the report . <p> Earlier this month , Libya and Egypt asked the United Nations Security Council to lift the arms embargo on Libya , impose a naval blockade on areas not under government control and help build Libya 's army to tackle Islamic State and other militants . <p> Libya has descended into factional fighting , leaving it almost lawless nearly four years after the fall and death of Gaddafi . Two competing governments backed by militia brigades are vying for control of the oil-producing OPEC member , and U.N.-brokered talks between them have been unsuccessful . <p> The panel said that U.N . exemptions aimed at enabling Libyan authorities to buy munitions to establish law and order have helped militias develop considerable arsenals . <p> One example cited in the report involved the council 's 2013 approval for Belarus to export 3,000 tons of ammunition to Libya . <p> The panel wrote that in February 2014 much of the first shipment from Belarus was not only " diverted upon arrival at Tripoli airport by brigades controlling it , but some of the deliveries appear to have been made directly to autonomous armed groups . " <p> There were 15 other flights from Belarus . " This raises the possibility that further shipments may have been diverted by the Zintani brigades and the panel is still investigating , " it said . <p> Between the revolution and August 2014 , Tripoli airport was controlled by fighters from the town of Zintan , who are loosely allied with the official prime minister and the elected parliament of Libya . <p> The panel wrote that in March 2014 a shipment of 23 assault rifles , 70 handguns and tens of thousands of rounds of ammunition for the European Union Border Assistance Mission in Libya went missing at Tripoli airport . <p> The panel said arms proliferation from Libya to Egypt and the Sahel remained " significant , " though transfers of weapons to Syria appeared to have declined . " Libya is a preeminent source of arms used in criminal and terrorist activities in Egypt , " the panel said in the report . " Transfers of the arms to Gaza through Egypt are also continuing . " <p> Egypt conducted air strikes on militant targets in Libya last week after Islamic State released a video purportedly showing the beheading of 21 Egyptian Christians . <p> The panel also said the illicit export of crude oil and oil products was providing " funding to the ongoing conflict . " <p> A year ago the Security Council authorized states to board ships suspected of carrying oil from Libyan rebel-held ports and allowed the Libyan government to request that vessels carrying the oil be blacklisted by the council 's sanctions committee . " No vessels were designated despite the export of crude oil from ports that are not under the control of the Libyan government , " the report said . 
@@61855121 <h> Growing concern in Muslim world about Islamist militancy -- survey <p> Written by Reuters - <p> 3rd Jul 2014 <p> 2149 <p> Large majorities in Muslim countries are increasingly worried about Islamist militancy and oppose its best-known groups , such as the global al Qaeda movement , Nigeria 's Boko Haram and Hamas , according to a new survey . <p> Support for violent tactics such as suicide bombing has fallen in many countries over the past decade , although some states still have significant minorities approving it , the survey by the Washington-based Pew Research Center said . <p> Pew , which regularly tracks opinion on religious issues around the world , polled over 14,000 Muslims in 14 countries in April and May , before the radical Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant ( ISIL ) group seized a large swathes of Iraq and Syria and announced a new Islamic " caliphate " there . <p> Although it did not ask about ISIL , the survey 's findings suggest there would be little support for a call on Tuesday by its leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi for Muslims worldwide to take up arms to avenge what he said were wrongs committed against Islam . " As well-publicised bouts of violence , from civil war to suicide bombings , plague the Middle East , Africa and South Asia , concern about Islamic extremism is high among countries with substantial Muslim populations , " the survey said . " In most Middle Eastern countries , concern about extremism has increased in the past year , " said the survey issued on Tuesday . <p> Lebanon was the country most concerned , with 92 percent of those polled agreeing when asked if they were " concerned about Islamic extremism in our country " . Tunisia followed with 82 percent , then Egypt with 75 percent and the Palestinian territories with 65 percent . <p> In other regions , 72 percent of Nigerians , 66 percent of Pakistanis and 63 percent of Malaysians also worried about violent Islamist activity . <p> GROUPS LOSING SUPPORT <p> The survey showed majorities , often quite strong , in most countries against the best-known militant Islamist groups . <p> Negative opinions about al Qaeda were again strongest in Lebanon , with 96 percent against it , followed by Turkey at 85 percent , Jordan at 83 percent and Egypt at 81 percent . <p> The survey was not conducted in Syria or Iraq , where war including al Qaeda forces would make it impossible to interview a representative sample of 1,000 as happened elsewhere . <p> In Nigeria , 79 percent of those polled had negative views of Boko Haram , the insurgent group staging regular attacks in the north that have killed hundreds in recent months . <p> Some 59 percent of Pakistanis were opposed to the Taliban . <p> Islamist group Hamas , which controls the Gaza Strip , has been losing support , the survey said . Negative views about Hamas among Gazans rose to 63 percent from 54 percent last year . <p> The group appears to be more popular in the West Bank , run by President Mahmoud Abbas 's Fatah movement , where only 47 percent of those polled had a negative image of Hamas . <p> The survey asked about suicide bombing as a specific form of militant violence and found the highest support for it in the Middle East at 46 percent in the Palestinian territories , a drop from 70 percent in 2007 . <p> Support in Lebanon was 29 percent , after being as high as 74 percent in 2002 . Most other countries registered support around 20 percent or lower for suicide bombing " to defend Islam from its enemies " . 
@@61870220 <h> States fail to protect civilians from militant violence <p> Written by Reuters - <p> 26th Feb 2015 <p> 1678 <p> Governments are failing to protect millions of civilians from violence by states and armed groups , Amnesty International said on Wednesday , describing the global response to widespread conflict from Nigeria to Syria as " shameful and ineffective " . <p> A year of catastrophic violence had led to one of the worst refugee crises in history , as the number of displaced people worldwide topped 50 million for the first time since the end of the World War Two , the rights group said in its annual report . <p> Almost 4 million refugees have fled a four-year civil war in Syria , and about 95 percent are being hosted by Lebanon , Turkey , Jordan , Iraq and Egypt , according to the U.N . refugee agency , which has repeatedly urged rich nations to take more refugees . " As people suffered an escalation in barbarous attacks and repression , the international community has been found wanting , " Amnesty secretary general Salil Shetty said in a statement . " It is abhorrent to see how wealthy countries ' efforts to keep people out take precedence over their efforts to keep people alive . " <p> The growing influence of non-state armed groups such as Boko Haram and Islamic State was a major concern , Amnesty said . <p> Islamist militants Boko Haram have killed thousands of people in northeastern Nigeria in a five-year insurgency , while Islamic State has taken vast parts of Iraq and Syria and declared a caliphate in territory under its control . <p> Armed groups committed abuses in more than 35 countries in 2014 , including the Central African Republic and India , the rights group said . <p> Amnesty said there would be more victims of abuse and persecution as the influence of such groups spilled across national borders . <p> GENOCIDE AND MASS ATROCITIES <p> The rights group urged the five permanent members of the U.N . Security Council -- Britain , China , France , Russia and the United States -- to renounce their veto rights in situations of genocide and mass atrocities . <p> Since 2011 , Russia and China have cast four vetoes to block international action in Syria , where more than 210,000 have been killed since the conflict began , according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights . <p> The Security Council has failed to deal with conflicts in Syria , Iraq , Gaza , Israel and Ukraine , even when civilians had been subjected to " horrific crimes " , Amnesty said . <p> Amnesty also urged all governments to ratify and adhere to a global arms trade treaty , which came into force in December and aims to regulate the $85 billion industry and keep weapons out of the hands of human rights abusers and criminals . <p> A huge number of arms were delivered to Iraq , Israel , Russia , South Sudan and Syria in 2014 , despite the likelihood of these weapons being used against civilians , it said . <p> The report also highlighted how several governments in 2014 , including Kenya and Pakistan , had reacted to security threats with " draconian and repressive " tactics . <p> Kenya passed anti-terrorism measures last year that opposition groups and activists said would threaten liberties and free speech , while Pakistan lifted a 2008 ban on the death penalty . " Government leaders justify human rights violations by talking of the need to keep the world ' safe ' " , Shetty said . " But knee-jerk reactions do not work . Instead they create an environment of repression in which extremism can thrive . " 
@@61886928 <h> Data roped in to end malaria <p> While preventable and curable , malaria ranks as one of the most severe public health issues across the globe , and is a leading cause of death and disease in many developing countries , with young children and pregnant women being the most severely impacted groups . <p> In 2018 , it was estimated that some 228 million cases of malaria occurred worldwide , with approximately 405 000 deaths recorded in that year . Of this , the African region is disproportionately affected , accounting for 93% of malaria cases and 94% of malaria deaths . <p> One of the worst hit countries is Mozambique , burdened with 4% of the world 's cases of the mosquito-borne infectious disease in 2018 . This translates to about 9.3 million cases out of a population of 29.4 million , and 968 deaths . <p> To combat this scourge , social benefit organisation Goodbye Malaria was established in 2013 as a cross-border initiative between South Africa , Eswatini and Mozambique to drive malaria eradication programmes in Mozambique and the Southern African region . <p> Goodbye Malaria is strongly supported by restaurant group Nando 's , which provided the initial funding for its establishment . A public private partnership concluded over three years ago between Goodbye Malaria , the Global Fund and the governments of the three countries has further bolstered the Lubombo Spatial Development Initiative 2 ( LSDI2 ) -- Goodbye Malaria 's coordinated on-the-ground programme to eradicate the disease . <p> LSDI2 has already yielded measurable success through its key intervention -- Indoor Residual Spraying ( IRS ) , which has been running for the past eight years . The programme is focused on the Southern Mozambique region , and has been steadily expanding to now cover the provinces of Maputo , Gaza and Inhambane . <p> Last year , the programme sprayed 450 000 houses and protected 1.7 million people from malaria infection . This year , Goodbye Malaria is targeting 531 000 houses and protecting over 1.9 million people before the rainy season starts in October/November . <p> The problem : Outdated technology and poor quality data <p> With the rapid expansion of the LSDI2 , Goodbye Malaria was faced with the challenge that its technology platform and data capturing systems were no longer able to effectively support the initiative , which created several challenges . <p> As Mozambique has significant connectivity challenges , Altron Karabina implemented a phase one solution that provided a template sheet which was filled in manually by the programme 's spray teams to capture data about houses that had been sprayed and their occupants . These sheets were then sent to Nando 's IT division to capture all the spray information that the programme required , and this data was stored in a central data warehouse . <p> Says Gerald Elliah , principal consultant at Altron Karabina : " But on top of the connectivity challenges , many of the areas where they spray are rural . So , the data could n't be captured in real time and forms had to be filled out manually , and given to a data capturer to input the data into the system . " There was a lot of scope for error and the process was very time-intensive . " <p> The solution : Innovation and collaboration <p> It became evident that this initiative required some innovation in the areas of business intelligence and automation , given the lack of connectivity in the affected areas . <p> Altron Karabina subsequently updated the existing system to use the Microsoft Power BI reporting environment and created a dashboard that enabled the programme to make better spray-based decisions , and capture richer and better quality data . <p> The data capture mechanism itself was also updated to allow direct form capture in Mozambique , with verification mechanisms that synchronised master data to ensure that capturing mistakes were reduced by limiting capture to appropriate entries . This reduction in errors allowed more information to be stored -- such as demographics about the inhabitants of the sprayed houses , and the type of structures themselves , which in turn allowed the planning model to be far more accurate . <p> The automated solution helps the organisation to visualise and act on the information that they have captured , without having to create manual reports and dashboards on an on-going basis . Hence , the system is more user friendly , stable and flexible , so that it can be upgraded as the LSDI2 initiative expands . <p> Key information provided in the reports now ranges from location , spray cycle and date , to the percentage of houses sprayed compared to a target , the percentage of the population protected compared to a target and the percentage of houses sprayed out of the number visited . <p> " From a technical point of view , we introduced data quality , elements of master data dramatically improved the kind of reporting they can do , and in some cases we introduced new metrics , " says Elliah . <p> Kiri Rundle , Marketing Manager at Goodbye Malaria says : " By putting in place the right technology and leveraging off the strengths of world class partners , such as Altron Karabina , there is great optimism that Goodbye Malaria can achieve the collective goal of eliminating malaria in the region by 2030. " 
@@61893222 <p> Ahmed Abu Artema hates fences . A barbed-wire fence kept him from his mother for 19 years . <p> There is a universal loathing of fences among Palestinians . In Gaza , there is a common Arabic phrase used to refer to life in the Strip -- min al-silik ila al-silik ( from the fence to the fence ) , referring to being trapped by the Israeli fence in the east , the Mediterranean Sea in the west , which is guarded by Israeli warships , and the Rafah border with Egypt in the south . <p> So it is not surprising , then , that the catalyst for the Great Return March was a fence . <p> In December 2017 , Abu Artema was walking along the barbed-wire fence that separates Gaza from Israel when he noticed birds flying over what he and two million others in Gaza could not cross . It was an image that affected him greatly . <p> Later that day , he wrote on Facebook : " In the prison that is Gaza , the opportunities to visit our occupied land are rare . To see beyond the fence is an achievement . What if one of us dreamed we were a bird and soared over these cursed fences ? Is it not a person 's right to move as freely as a bird ? " <p> A month later he wrote another post on Facebook , expressing similar sentiments , ending with the hashtag #GreatReturnMarch . Young people in Gaza reacted to the post immediately , sharing it and adding their own ideas . Within a week , Abu Artema and several others had established a youth committee and had met local institutions and political parties . <p> " We wanted to offer all sectors of society in Gaza the opportunity to be involved , " he says . <p> The end result was the Great Return March -- Friday protests along the Gaza-Israel fence for the past year , which have drawn attention to the Palestinian appeal for the right of return and Israel 's 12-year-long land , sea and air blockade of the Gaza Strip , which has strangled the economy and its predominantly young population . <p> Ahmed Abu Artema started the Great Return March movement , which holds peaceful protests against the fences . ( Supplied ) <p> Camps were set up 700m from Israel 's border fence , beyond the Israeli army 's unilaterally imposed buffer zone . Many of the protests took on a carnival-like appearance , with people of all ages and even traditional dabke dancers attending . <p> But they were met with violence . More than 18 ? 000 protesters have been injured so far , many of them seriously , and nearly 300 killed by Israeli forces -- including children , journalists and the disabled . A recently released United Nations Human Rights Council report found that Israeli soldiers may have committed war crimes by intentionally shooting unarmed Palestinian protestors engaged in peaceful protest . <p> " Israel reacted even more brutally than I expected , and I have lived through three of its wars , " says Abu Artema . He battles to deal with the number of casualties , especially when he visits the injured or families of the slain . <p> " The occupation plans to disable a whole generation of Palestinians , " he says , referring to explosive bullets that have shattered bones , resulting in a high number of amputations . <p> " We talk about 18 ? 000 as if it 's just a number . But when you meet these people , you see that everyone has a story . There are young men who have lost their dreams because of injuries , lost their futures . It 's terrifying . " <p> Meeting the mother of 21-year-old volunteer paramedic Razan al-Najjar , who was shot and killed as she tended to a wounded protester , was particularly painful for the father of three . " They 've robbed me of my joy , " Razan 's grieving mother told Abu Artema . <p> " When you 're the owner of an idea or an initiative , sometimes you feel personally responsible , " he admits . <p> " I feel gratitude , love and pride towards these people who have been injured . I believe we must continue . If we do n't , then we betray the ideals for which these people have made sacrifices . " <p> Despite claims from Israel that the protests are violent , Abu Artema maintains a commitment to peaceful protest . <p> " We discourage the burning of Israeli flags and the attachment of Molotov cocktails to kites . We have also tried to discourage protesters from attempting to cross into Israel . " <p> These are signs of the desperation that fuels the youth of Gaza , he says . " They were born , and live , under siege . They have never seen the world beyond the fences . They do n't have opportunities , a future or hope . " <p> Abu Artema also questions why the entire movement has been stigmatised . " By virtue of a few youth throwing rocks or burning tyres , should the march lose its legitimacy ? " <p> He also rejects claims that the march is a Hamas initiative . <p> " We are a group of about 20 organisers . Most of us , including myself , are leftists . All the political parties in Palestine are behind us and supporting us , and Hamas , being an elected party , is one of those parties . " The Great Return March is " Palestinian-driven , not Hamas-driven " , he says . <p> As the march reaches it first anniversary , Abu Artema maintains that Palestinians in Gaza are in it for the long haul . <p> " Popular protests accumulate their success over time , as you know too well , " he says , hinting at the South African anti-apartheid boycott movement . <p> Currently on a speaking tour in the United States , he has been calling for an arms embargo to be imposed on Israel , a move that South Africa and 22 other countries supported at a United Nations Human Rights Council meeting in Geneva last week . <p> " We will keep knocking at the doors of the global community until we see concrete steps to end the blockade of Gaza . " <p> The fences , he says , will fall . <p> Suraya Dadoo is an independent writer <p> These are unprecedented times , and the role of media to tell and record the story of South Africa as it develops is more important than ever . But it comes at a cost . Advertisers are cancelling campaigns , and our live events have come to an abrupt halt . Our income has been slashed . <p> The Mail &amp; Guardian is a proud news publisher with roots stretching back 35 years . We 've survived thanks to the support of our readers , we will need you to help us get through this . <p> To help us ensure another 35 future years of fiercely independent journalism , please subscribe . 
@@61899810 <h> We speak out against the murder of George Floyd , but do we devalue black lives in SA ? <h> It is inspiring that South Africans have expressed outrage at the murder of Geroge Floyd in the US , yet we are largely silent on the regular police murders at home . <p> The murder of George Floyd in Minneapolis has sent a wave of grief and anger around the world . The US was built on African slavery and indigenous genocide , and remains a fundamentally racist country . <p> As the great African-American academic Cornell West has pointed out , the system of electoral politics in the US has been unable to achieve the sort of reforms that could finally put an end to even the crude racism of the police . As West points out ; the election of a black president did not end the pervasive racism of the American police . <p> But the protests that have erupted across the country have reignited the Black Lives Matter movement , and given real hope that popular rebellion will achieve what electoral politics has failed to do . When the Black Lives Matter became a powerful force after the uprising in Ferguson in August 2014 , people who claimed leadership on the basis of a social media presence were soon co-opted by NGOs and foundations , and the movement lost the source of its real power -- popular rebellion . Hopefully , lessons have been learnt and this time , the movement will insist that its real power comes from , and should remain , on the streets . <p> It is wonderful to see people around the world , including here in South Africa , expressing support for the struggle against systemic racism in the US . But America is not the only country in which black people are regularly subject to police harassment , violence and murder . <p> The situation is at least as bad in Brazil and Palestine . In South Africa , we may have a black government , yet a few weeks into the Covid-19 lockdown , at least 12 people had been killed by the police during lockdown operations . A number of people have asked why South Africans are generally unconcerned about the regularity and impunity with which the police here murder unarmed , poor black people . Often the same people who are grieved and outraged by what happens in America are entirely silent when poor black people are killed by the police here at home . <p> Surely the affirmation that black lives matter should include the lives of black people in South Africa ? Surely , we should know , after the Barack Obama presidency , that having black people in political power does not necessarily reform racist systems ? During Obama 's term in office , police violence against black people in the US , the mass incarceration of black and Latino people , and drone strikes around the world continued unabated . <p> If Donald Trump , Jair Bolsonaro or Benjamin Netanyahu ever have the audacity to visit South Africa , we should take to the streets in our tens of thousands to shut their visit down . But we should also be expressing the same outrage at Bheki Cele and every other politician who supports or fails to condemn the pervasive police violence against poor black people in South Africa . <p> After the Ferguson uprising in 2014 , Angela Davis , the brilliant African-American activist and academic , pointed out that there were clear links between the oppression of black people in the US and Palestinians . She noted that the Israeli state , a deeply racist institution , was training and equipping American police officers . She also noted that during the Ferguson uprising ; activists in Palestine were sharing advice on social media about how to deal with teargas and other forms of police violence . <p> Davis advanced an internationalist position in which we should be in solidarity with the oppressed everywhere , from Gaza to Ferguson . This is an impressively principled form of politics that carries a real moral authority . But while huge numbers of South Africans respond with righteous outrage when the police kill another innocent person in the US , and there is a small but vibrant South African movement in support of Palestine , South Africans generally do not take racialised forms of state violence at home seriously . <p> The reasons for this are not entirely clear . Have we perhaps internalised a colonial devaluation of the lives of our own people ? Or is this a question of a residual faith in the ANC despite its long record of violence , including lethal violence , against poor black people ? Is it because our public sphere is dominated by the middle classes , but it is largely poor people who are murdered by the police , usually with impunity ? <p> Whatever the reason for the general lack of outrage at lethal forms of state violence in South Africa , we can not continue to claim any sort of moral high ground when police murders of our own people pass without comment . It simply makes no sense for us to be outraged by police murders in the US , but silent on the regular police murders at home . <p> With far-right wing presidents in office in the USA , India , Brazil , Australia , Hungary and elsewhere , and the global economy set to collapse into a depression as bad or worse than the Great Depression of the 1930s , these are depressing times . In these difficult times , the rebellion sweeping the US is a real beacon of hope . <p> It is inspiring to see so many people in South Africa following and supporting that rebellion . But if we want to be true to its spirit , we should be opposed to all forms of racist and racialised police violence -- from the US , to Brazil , to Palestine and here at home in South Africa . <p> If Donald Trump , Jair Bolsonaro or Benjamin Netanyahu ever have the audacity to visit South Africa , we should take to the streets in our tens of thousands to shut their visit down . But we should also be expressing the same outrage at Bheki Cele and every other politician who supports or fails to condemn the pervasive police violence against poor black people in South Africa . <p> If we could bring all the anger that we feel about the situation in the US home , we would have a real chance of being able to start to reform policing at home . And reform is urgently needed . It is , literally , a matter of life and death . DM <h> Sign in <h> Do n't have a login ? <h> Become a member <p> There are many great benefits to being a Maverick Insider . Removing advertising from your browsing experience is one of them - we do n't just block ads , we redesign our pages to look smarter and load faster . <p> Click here to see other benefits and to sign-up to our reader community supporting quality , independent journalism . 
