@@41965259 <h> Share this : <p> What has been an open secret across the Arab world is not a secret anymore even in the US : What happened last month in the deep recesses of the House of Saud with the ascension of Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman , aka MBS , was in fact a white coup . <p> Nearly a month ago , as I 've written elsewhere , a top Middle East source close to the House of Saud told me : " The CIA is very displeased with the firing of former Crown Prince Mohammad bin Nayef . Mohammad bin Salman is regarded as sponsoring terrorism . In April 2014 the entire royal families of the UAE and Saudi Arabia were to be ousted by the US over terrorism . A compromise was worked out that Nayef would take over running the kingdom to stop it . " <p> The source also referred to an insistent narrative then pervading selected Middle East geopolitical circles , according to which US intel , " indirectly " , had stopped another coup against the young Emir of Qatar , Sheikh Tamim al-Thani , orchestrated by Mohammed bin Zayed , Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi , with help from Blackwater/Academi 's army of mercenaries in the United Arab Emirates . Zayed , crucially , happens to be MBS 's mentor . <p> But instead of a coup in Doha , what happened was actually a coup in Riyadh . According to the source , " the CIA blocked the coup in Qatar and the Saudis reacted by dumping the CIA-selected Mohammed bin Nayef , who was to be the next king . The Saudis are scared . The monarchy is in trouble , as the CIA can move the army in Saudi Arabia against the king . This was a defensive move by MBS . " <p> Now , almost a month later , confirmation of the white coup/regime change in Riyadh has been splashed on the front page of The New York Times , attributed mainly to the proverbial " current and former United States officials " . <p> That , in essence , is code for the US deep state , and confirms how the Central Intelligence Agency is extremely annoyed by the ouster of Nayef , a trusted partner and former counterterrorism czar . The CIA on the other hand simply does not trust arrogant , inexperienced and hubristic MBS . <p> Warrior Prince MBS has been responsible for conducting the war on Yemen -- which not only killed thousands of civilians but also spawned a tragic famine/humanitarian crisis . If that was not enough , MBS was the architect of the blockade of Qatar , followed by the UAE , Bahrain and Egypt , and now totally discredited as Doha has refused to concede to outlandish " demands " in essence concocted in Riyadh and Abu Dhabi . <p> Nayef , crucially , was opposed to the blockade of Qatar . <p> It 's no wonder the House of Saud and the UAE are already backtracking on Qatar , not so much because of pressure recently applied by US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson on the ground , but mostly because of shadow play : the US deep state making sure its interests in the Gulf -- starting with the Al-Udeid base in Qatar -- should not be messed with . <h> A reckless ' gambler ' <p> MBS , although treated with ( velvet ) kid gloves across the Beltway because of the same old " Saudi Arabia is our ally " meme , is for all practical purposes the most dangerous man in the Middle East . <p> That 's exactly what the famous December 2015 memo by the BND -- German intelligence -- was already stating : The young " gambler " was poised to cause a lot of trouble . Financial circles in the European Union are absolutely terrified that his geopolitical gambles may end up sending millions of retirement accounts into the dust . <p> The BND memo crucially detailed how the House of Saud , in Syria , had bankrolled the creation of the Army of Conquest -- basically a revamp of Jabhat al-Nusra , aka al-Qaeda in Syria -- as well as ideological sister outfit Ahrar al-Sham . <p> That amounted to the House of Saud aiding , abetting and weaponizing Salafi-jihadi terrorism . And this from a regime that , after seducing US President Donald Trump to star in an embarrassing sword dance , felt it was free to accuse Qatar of being a terrorist nation . <p> MBS 's blockade of Qatar has nothing to do with silencing al-Jazeera ; it relates to the Saudi defeat in Syria , and the fact that Doha abandoned the " Assad must go " dead-ender to the benefit of allying itself with Tehran to sell liquefied natural gas to Europe out of their jointly owned North Dome/South Pars giant gas field . <p> MBS -- as well as his ailing dad -- skipped the Group of 20 Summit in Hamburg ; the Qatar embarrassment was too much of a burden , considering for instance Doha 's position as a powerful investor in both France and the UK . Still , all eyes are on him ; MBS has promised to turbocharge the vicious Sunni/Shiite confrontation , taking the war " inside Iran " . <p> And further on down the road , there 's the question of how MBS is going to handle the fraught-with-risk Aramco initial public offering . <p> Religious cleric Sheikh Imran Hosein think a big war will start in the Middle East SOON . Saudi Arabia is gathering a coalition between Sunni nation for attack against Qatar who refuses to follow orders from the Saudi coalition . Then Syria , Yemen , and then finally Iran . The US/NATO is backing this idea and Israel is VERY happy . Pakistan will be the military leader of the coalition . Pakistan has stockpiles of nukes . Armageddon ? https : //youtu.be/cuQ961g-hf4 <p> In a second YouTube video Sheikh Imran Hosein the Saudi agenda is in violation of the Holy Quran and it will result in an uprising among the Sunni Muslims https : //youtu.be/twX80pjLi58 . <p> I 've read that a high official stated Mr bin Nayef had been removed in the national interest and had not experienced any " pressure or disrespect " but said precise reasons for his dismissal were " confidential " . A source close to Mr bin Nayef acknowledged that he had health issues , which were aggravated after an al Qaeda attacker tried to blow himself up in front of him in his palace in 2009 . I see some commenting about drug abuse- this is different . It 's not the case here . Sources claimed he has shrapnel in his body that can not be removed and he depends on drugs such as morphine to alleviate the pain . So this is not what many imagine when you loosely use the term ' ' drug abuse ' ' that has been an open secret across the Arab world is not a secret anymore even in the US : What happened last month in the deep recesses of the House of Saud with the ascension of Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman , aka MBS , was surely not a coup . I 've read articles where they referred to an insistent narrative then pervading selected Middle East geopolitical circles , according to which US intel , " indirectly " , had stopped another coup against the young Emir of Qatar , Sheikh Tamim al-Thani , See that is a definite coup- not the shift of positions in Saudi . <p> Sorry Pepe , your sources are beyond lousy . You are conradicting yourself -- having a favorite narrative -- you are willing to dismiss some hard fact . <p> For one , US trying to topple regimes of KSA and UAE because of -- he support of terrorism ? Seriously ? CIA and the then Crown Prince , Najaf -- were THE archtects of the rise of armed terrorists , their rapid advance against both Iraq and Syria , and the preferred outcome in both coutries , the division of countries into Kurdish , Sunni Salafi caliphates or emirates , and Shia rump states . The countries opposing such geopolitical restructuring in the Middle East were always Qatar and Turkey . Silently , opposing were Kuwait and Oman . Egypt favors Astana process , which means regional solutions sponsored by Turkey , Russia and Iran . Iraq supports such solution as well . In comes Trump , with the horrific notion -- defeat ISIS , and be done with it . Neocon bridages in full alert . <p> Now , I hope people are not blind to the Kabuki theater in Washington , as the pattern is already clear . Trump has in his White House NSC choke full of neocons . Chief of CIA , neocon . Mattis , closet neocon , but open to change . Trump has only two circles of power , State Department and the Joint Chief of Staff , Danford . It works like this . Trump comes out mouting loudly what his NSC neocons tell him is the correct thing to do . He does it , to the ridiculous proportions . Then comes Tillerson and/or Danford to refefine , or change what he said . No complaints from Donald . It worked in already so many times , that it is fun watching . Every time this happens , I am sure Donald has a few choice things to say to NSC for making him look like a fool . A job he most willingly undertook . <p> Let 's talk Saudi Arabia . Long time CIA hand , Najaf , as a crown prince , is in KSA de facto head of state . King has only one role , and that is to listen to all factions , and communicate to Crown Prince , so he can modify his policies accordingly . He also has a say in the key appointments of ministers . US had a key role in getting Najaf appointed Crown Prince , as it was in violation of the rules of inheritance , but the body making that decision went along with the pro-American faction , and the most pro-American Head of the Government of Saudi Arabia came to power . King 's son , however , being the Defence Minister , is backed by all those that lost to US faction when Najaf was appointed . King himself was not too pleased with the pressure applied , as well as with the pro-American interests This is why the King has been in our neocon controlled media often described as " senile " with " dementia " , etc . To insure his speady departure , and the absolute control of Najaf -- who could then have the freedome to appoint his own ministers . With everything in place , neocons started thinking BIG . And Najaf answered all of their hopes . Now , our media , keep in mind , neocon owned , are eager to place all the blame for all the problems on King 's son , Salman . Because he was the only minister that they could not control , and his powers were expanded by King 's decrees into energy and intelligence . But keep in mind , for as long as Najaf was the head of the government , Salman did what he was ordered to do . Thus , it was not Salman 's Yemen war , but Najaf 's with the full support from US . The entire reason for the war is absurd -- to return to power former President , who was never elected to start with . And in the conditions were both North Yemen ( Shia ) and South Yemen ( Sunni ) are in perfect agreement to split the country the way it was before forced unificaiton during arrogant Clinton rule . So , if Najaf was so saintly , why did US support war on Yemen -- why we did not hear any real complaints before , or stopped armning Saudi Arabia to expose the " upstart and arrogant ' Minister of Defence ? It is because US approved of Najaf 's polilcy , and Salman exectued it . In Syria , Najaf was key supporter of CIA programs to support terrorists accross Iraq and Syria , as well as LIbya . There was never any criticism leveled against the rule of Najaf . <p> But what was happening accross the Middle East was a disaster for Saudi Arabia . Let me review , briefly . Syrian Army with the help of Russian military , made major gainst against Al-Qaeda , and all its affiliated groups in Syria . ISIS was firmly ensconced accross Euphrates , as Turkey , Russia and Syria effectively destroyed their " string of pearls " along Turkish border , and bult a corridor from Jarabulus to Al-Bab , preventing the repeat of Manbij , where ISIS turned out to be no more then a placeholder for the expansion of Kurds into majority Arab area . In Iraq , the reliance on the new intelligence center in Baghdad with Russia and Iran , proved to be a turning point in the war against ISIS . <p> Najaf was ousted , as Saudi elite lost confidence in US handing of Middle East . King is not " senile " or having " dementia ' as suggested in our neocon press . He has managed to get consensus by the elite to replace the Crown King , and appoint his son , Mohammed bin Salman . His son , contrary to the stories in our fake media , was not the one who ran the Kingdom , and started Yemen war , or was the brain behind Qatar adventure . This is neocon plan -- through and through . It was carried away by Trumps grotesque show of support for Saudi Arabia , assuming all is safe , and US support has been given . If Najaf had misgivings , it may be due to his good nose for set ups , and this was one . But Salman did not give him way out , and Qatari circus went ahead . For anyone thinking more carefully about the problem , one thing stood out Participation by Egypt . Najaf was especially cruel to Egypt . When Egypt pulled out of Yemen mess , KSA stopped deliver of already paid for oil to Egypt . It pushed Egypt into giving up three islands in Red Sea . But Egypt was a winner in all of this . For one , this raised the level of anti-Saudi sentiment in Egypt , even among anti-Morsi Salafists , that were before very loyal to Saudi Arabia , as the guardian of true Islamic faith . But this is gone now -- both Morsi supporters , and anti-Morsi Salafists found commong ground in hating Saudi Arabia . Sisi could have stopped transter of islands , but he did not . The public sentiment change was worth much more . And when Wahhabi inspired islamists killed many Christians on a bus , Sisi responded by bombing Saudi supported Islamists in Libya , on Egypt 's border . It was so widely popular in Egypti , that he did it few times more , -- for good measure . This was a win for Sisi beyond comprehension . It was a first time that the death of Christians was revenged by bombing of Saudi inspired and funded militants . And to the cheering of majority Moslem Egypt . So , what was Egypt doing in the unholly alliance against Qatar ? Egypt understood the stupidity of the move , and became the big brother to Saudi Arabia , that will need someone to clean up the mess . I would not he surprised that it knew of the end of CIA run Crown Prince reign . <p> The new ruler has already pulled back the demands , and along with Egypt came up with " principles " , none of them really damaging to Qatar -- who will now be " ready for dialog " in a clear move to avoid shaming Saudi Arabia and save their face . Egypt stands to become de facto leader of Sunni Arab world , which makes sense given its population and size , as well as good relations with other regional and global powers . The new Crown Prince is despised in neocon world , as he visited Russia on number of occassions , and met Putin three times . He asked Russia to participate in privatization of Aramco . Set up a joint Saudi-Russia fund for the development of energy . Signed up deal with China for a drone factory to be built in Saudi Arabia . Started a convesation on reforms and liberalization , and is already in conflict with the ruling Wahhabi establishment . Qatar has thrown in a bomb -- questioning the role of Wahhbism on the explosion of violance and extremism in Sunni world . <p> While Trump is still cheerfully talking of Iran as a center of terrorism , nobody in the world is listening . This way , neocons are pleased -- but neocons have not yet learned the lesson of Trumpism . Beware Trump bringing gifts . The anti-Iranian coalition has been broken , Gulf will need to start from scratch formulating its own new policies in the region . And can no longer ignore changes that Syria and Iraq have produced . <p> Neocons are responsible for US loss of influence in the Middle East . Not that they will see it as such . Watch them continue giving their sage advice and continue bulling Trump through neocon studded NSC . And he will continue to go cheerfully trumpeting their advice -- making them uber happy . But when things turn out to be just the opposite from hoped for result , they will act as it they are the ones guiding Tillerson in his mission to calm the region . <p> It has not been Tillerson that calmed it . Far from it . But in neocon eyes , he is the one who thwarted their fabulous plan , and having Trump just pivot 180 degrees . He has no problem with that . So -- beware what you wish for neocons , it may well come true . But wiht the conequences that will be your nightmare . <p> You are absolutely right , this is typical . Also , author has , may be inadvertently put other de-conflict zones in a same category as the one agreed with Americans . But they are not the same . US has no air conrol over those areas . In the last few months of Obama administration in did try to bomb places in Idlib -- but it has backfired . Trump administration continued the practice on the ground for a while longer , but is now changed . There is a method to madness in Trump 's tactics . He did allow generals to do what they pleased , but is asking how does what they do advance the defeat of ISIS . As they could not prove that they were on task on on schedule , more talk about defeting ISIS ensued . And less attempting to prove dominance in Syria . In fact , Trump has been shutting up neocons regularly by acting irrationally according to their wish list , just to then make a 180 degree turn , after others like Tillerson and Danford -- provided informationm to the contrary . <p> It is amazing how quiet is the media land about the entry of Lebanese Army into the border area of Quinetra mountains . The same one where Hezbollah is not be be present . Nobody can now accuse Lebanese Army of the legitimacy of their effort the expell Al-Qaeda from ITS border . The problem with this Al-Qaeda is that it was funded and supported by Israel , who also provided medical treatment for its fighters all these years . Lebanon knows all too well Israeli tactics , and as a country that survived multiple attempts of Israel on invading its land , knows that leaving this group on the border is just asking for trouble . So far , Israel is fuming in silence . But no worries , when angry Israel will just bomb Gaza to feel better . <p> The issue of federalizing Syria is going to be an interesting one . US is not in a good position in Raqqa governorate . Kurds are not having enough manpower to oust ISIS , and even if ISIS decides to depart -- giving them the region as a present , the local Arab population is violently set against US allowing Kurds to rule the region after ISIS is gone . This is why Syrian Army has been able to make inroads into Raqqa Governorate , as it is helped by the local Arab population , many of them organized into tribes , and offering military help to Damascus . This portends bad news to US plans for Kurdistan . On one hand , Turkey , Russia and Damascus have prevented Kurds from taking over region along the border with Turkey by creating Jarabulus-Al-Bab corridor . Kurds on ASfrin side have tried many sly ways to try to cut through the corridor , without success . Turkey even brought in reinforcements to prevent them from trying . Kurds in Kobani region are not capable to acontrol physically the area , so US was forced to make a decison -- full invasion against Syrian Arab population , or backing off the maximalist plan , keeping its presence only in Kurd majority areas . And that is not a large territory . But even though US is not taking any more agressive actions against advancing Syrian Army , it is still being ambvivalent about both Raqqa governorate and the neighboring Deir Azzor . Syrian Army has taken advantage of skirting along Raqqa , to encircle ISIS in Deir Azzor -- a place where ISIS , in full view of US air observation was moving its artillery , abandoning Raqqa . Well , Russia bombed their advance -- and there is nobody on the ground to be displeased with stopping ISIS from just moving from place to place . With the constitution being discussed , there is a minor issue of Idlib . Turkey has the best shot at getting it under control -- but this is still a watching game . <p> As it stands now , Syrian government in all the deconflict zones has an upper hand . It has military , control of police stations , and education system . Its military must coordinate with the armed groups in fighting ISIS and Al-Qaeda . In fact , the better these groups cooperate , the better their chances for getting some of their leadership included into peace talks . These are the regions that will hold back Kurds in claiming too much for themselves in the constitution . And limiting what US can do there in the long run . Not only Syria , but Turkey , Iraq and Iran are not in favor or any US forces sitting around forever . 
@@41965379 <h> Building Food Security During the Pandemic <p> By Tony Blair and Agnes Kalibata <p> Protecting food supply chains is the key missing component of an effective COVID-19 strategy . Global partnerships -- particularly among the private sector , governments , development banks , and farmers ' organizations -- must be established rapidly to prevent a catastrophic food crisis in developing countries . <p> Palestinian employees at the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestinian Refugees ( UNRWA ) wearing protective masks and gloves , prepare food aid rations to be henceforth delivered to refugee family homes rather than distributed at a UN a center , in Gaza City , on March 31 , 2020 , due to the COVID-19 pandemic . ( Photo by Majdi Fathi/NurPhoto via Getty Images ) <p> Every year , some nine million people worldwide -- equivalent to the population of Austria -- die of hunger or hunger-related diseases . That is tragic enough , but COVID-19 's disruption of food supply chains risks doubling this number in 2020 . <p> This is the hidden cost of the coronavirus pandemic , and it will fall on the poorest and most vulnerable . To prevent these avoidable deaths , we must first recognize that Africa , South Asia , and other poorer regions can not go into lockdown or seek to contain the disease by mimicking measures adopted in the West . Instead , they must find their own way to balance the risks of the virus with the risks to livelihoods and lives arising from attempts to defeat it . <p> Above all , however , the international community must act now to keep food supply chains operating . Otherwise , for the poorest parts of the world , the unintended consequences of the cure will be worse than the disease . <p> The United Nations World Food Programme has identified 26 countries that are most at risk from increased food insecurity because of the COVID-19 crisis , with Ethiopia , Nigeria , and Mozambique among the most vulnerable in Africa . In these three countries alone , the WFP estimates that 56 million people ( out of a combined population of about 334 million ) were already chronically food insecure . In addition , of the 1.5 billion children worldwide who are currently out of school because of the pandemic , 350 million depend on school meals to avoid going hungry . <p> COVID-19 is presenting poorer countries with four main food-security challenges . <p> For starters , households have less income to buy increasingly expensive food . Per capita output in Sub-Saharan Africa is set to contract by more than 4% in 2020 owing to the pandemic , while remittances from Africans working abroad are plummeting -- by 80% at one payment company in the United Kingdom . And a household survey in Bangladesh shows that the poor have already seen their incomes drop by a staggering 70% ; almost half are now reducing their food consumption as a result . <p> Second , transporting food has become more time-consuming and costlier . Global shipping activity dropped by 25% in the first quarter of 2020 , while the cost of sending cargo across the Pacific Ocean tripled in March alone . And new hygiene and social-distancing measures are delaying goods clearance and delivery . <p> Third , the pandemic is disrupting the global supply of agricultural products . Farmers in India have been asked by the Indian Council of Agricultural Researchto postpone their wheat harvest until after the lockdown , while countries such as Vietnam and Cambodia are restricting rice exports . This directly affects Africa , which imports $4.5 billion worth of rice each year . <p> In addition , food is becoming more expensive as poorer countries struggle to secure foreign currency to pay for imports . For example , rice prices in Nigeria increased by 30% in the last week of March , partly because of a steep decline in export revenue following the global oil-price collapse . <p> There are also mismatches between supply and demand . In the UK , five million liters of milk are at risk of being thrown away every week because of reduced restaurant demand . But this surplus could instead have been turned into powdered milk and exported to where it was needed . <p> Finally , COVID-19 is affecting farming and food availability in markets , as inputs remain scarce and vital agrochemicals are delayed in ports and at customs checkpoints . The World Bank estimates that agricultural production in Africa could decline by up to 7% in 2020 , depending on the extent of trade blockages . <p> Given these challenges , governments should provide cash transfers and safe food distribution channels to ensure that vulnerable citizens are protected . Crucially , policymakers need to focus on clearing logistics bottlenecks in both domestic and international value chains , so that food can move freely between and within countries . Furthermore , investing in the planting season now will boost countries ' adoption of technological solutions and reduce their reliance on food imports . <p> At the global level , four types of action are needed . <p> First , the international community must increase funding for food-relief and social-protection measures.This support must come quickly , because otherwise the eventual bill will be larger as famine spreads and agricultural systems ' viability is undermined . <p> The second priority is to invest in local agricultural production . Disruptions to local and regional food-production systems should be mitigated swiftly , particularly at critical times in the planting season , when the distribution of inputs such as fertilizer is crucial . Other investments should aim to help poorer countries build up three months ' worth of strategic food reserves , as the Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa ( AGRA ) recently recommended . And supporting market systems for food and non-food crops alike would help poorer countries to become more resilient . <p> Third , we must alleviate disruptions to global food and agricultural produce supply chains by supporting regional and local logistics hubs . The WFP is best placed to coordinate such hubs and needs $350 million immediately for that purpose . That is not a lot of money to ensure that food goes quickly to where it is needed most . <p> Finally , we need to incentivize the private sector to fund agroprocessing and agtech companies . Resources should be channeled rapidly toward investment opportunities that are emerging as a result of the pandemic , especially for innovative value-chain solutions . Priorities include supporting e-commerce and e-market platforms in developing countries -- especially in Africa -- and propping up food processing . <p> Commercial travel , workplace arrangements , and much else are already affected by COVID-19 . The pandemic creates an opportunity to transform food systems as well . The new partnership in Kenya between the African online retailer Jumia and Twiga , an e-market platform for local farmers , is a great example of what can be done . <p> Protecting food supply chains is the vital missing element of an effective COVID-19 strategy . While the challenges involved are huge , they can be solved through global partnerships , particularly among the private sector , governments , development banks , NGOs , and farmers ' organizations . But these solutions must be implemented rapidly if we are to prevent a catastrophic food crisis in developing countries . <p> ( Authors Tony Blair , Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from 1997 to 2007 , is Chairman of the Institute for Global Change and Agnes Kalibata is the United Nations Secretary General 's Special Envoy for the 2021 Food Systems Summit . ) <h> Get The Nepal24Hours.com App <h> Follow Us On : <p> **31;11766;TOOLONG Through Media under Nepal24hours Inc , is a dedicated online news service delivering and Staffed 24 hours , seven days a week by a dedicated staff at its head office in 11843 Elaine Ave , Artesia , CA 90701 , USA , its bureau office in Kathmandu , Nepal and in bureau offices elsewhere brings the latest and up to date news service . The online news service is being presently served by 16 news professionals . The online news services equipped with latest media technologies and features the latest multimedia technologies , from live video streaming to audio visual packages to searchable archives of news features and background information . The site is updated continuously throughout day and night from the USA and Nepal equally . 
@@41965380 <h> Israeli billionaire hopes to bring water to parched Gaza <p> ( In this Thursday , April 30 , 2020 photo , Palestinian engineer Raed Nakhal from Palestine Children Relief Fund , right , and engineer Abdullah Dewik , check the GEN-M machine that generates safe drinking water from air at the roof of al-Rantisi pediatric hospital in Gaza City . A Georgian-Israeli billionaire believes he has found a solution to the Gaza Strip 's chronic water crisis . Michael Mirilashvili wants to deliver hundreds of generators that produce drinking water out of thin air . His company , Watergen , has already delivered two of the machines to Gaza in a rare case of Israeli-Palestinian cooperation in the Hamas-ruled enclave . AP Photo : Adel Hana ) <p> By FARES AKRAM and ILAN BEN ZION , GAZA CITY , Gaza Strip ( AP ) : - A Georgian-Israeli billionaire believes he has found a solution to the Gaza Strip 's chronic water crisis . <p> Michael Mirilashvili wants to deliver hundreds of generators that produce drinking water out of thin air . His company , Watergen , sent a machine to a Gaza hospital last week in a rare case of Israeli-Palestinian cooperation in the Hamas-ruled enclave . <p> Gaza 's water situation is dire . Since the 2007 Hamas takeover of the crowded Palestinian territory , Gaza 's 2 million people have endured endured a crippling border blockade by Israel and Egypt that froze virtually all trade and most travel . <p> The 13-year-old lockdown , along with three Israel-Hamas wars , has produced chronic power cuts and damaged Gaza 's infrastructure , contributing to water contamination . <p> Gaza relies on an aquifer as its main source of potable water . But over-extraction has allowed sea water to seep in , rendering 97% of the area 's water undrinkable . <p> In an interview with The Associated Press , Mirilashvili said he wants to send more water generators to Gaza " because they are our neighbors and it 's a great pity to look at them suffering from such severe water shortages . " <p> He spoke days after one of his machines was installed on the roof of the Al-Rantisi Medical Center in Gaza City . Just a day after delivery , the generator , a large blue cube roughly the size of a vending machine , began producing cold , clean water for the hospital 's pediatric cancer ward . <p> Most of Gaza 's households buy water from private vendors who desalinate water at small-scale stations . But experts warn this water is impure . UNICEF estimates two-thirds of this water is already contaminated by the time it is delivered . <p> The children undergoing cancer treatment at the Gaza hospital need clean food and water because their immune system has been compromised , said Nima Ashour of the Palestine Children 's Relief Fund , a U.S.-based charity that runs the pediatric department . <p> The dire shortage of clean water makes the Watergen machine " very important " for the hospital , she said . <p> The Watergen device runs on electricity . But because of frequent power outages , the machine will soon be connected to solar panels . In the winter , the device can be hooked up to conventional power supplies . <p> Functioning like a dehumidifier , the machine extracts moisture from the air and converts it into drinking water . The machine sent to the Gaza hospital is a medium-sized model and generates about 800 liters , or over 200 gallons , a day . Watergen says its largest generators can provide clean drinking water to thousands of people . The company has also developed a new consumer version for home use . <p> Watergen 's technology was initially developed for military use in 2009 , but it shifted gears to civilian markets after Mirilashvili bought the company in 2017 . <p> Even the billionaire has had to wrestle with Israel 's military bureaucracy , which tightly controls access to Gaza . Mirilashvili said that it took him over a year to receive permission to transfer a first Watergen machine to Gaza . It was delivered to a southern town last December for a separate project . <p> Israel says the blockade is needed to prevent Hamas from arming , and it closely inspects all incoming cargo to make sure it is not used for military purposes . <p> After winning swift permission for the hospital project , Mirilashvili believes the procedure will now get easier and that he could deliver enough water generators to meet the territory 's daily drinking water needs within a year . The generators can cost tens of thousands of dollars apiece . Watergen , which donated the new machine to the hospital , said it is prepared to sell additional devices to Gaza at a " substantial discount . " <p> COGAT , the Israeli defense body responsible for Palestinian civilian affairs , said it coordinated the entry of the machine to Gaza . " We will continue working around the clock to prevent the humanitarian conditions in the Gaza Strip from further deteriorating , " said Col. Iyad Sirhan , a commander for Gaza affairs . <p> Mirilashvili , who was born in Georgia , controls a vast business empire that has included casinos , hotels , oil , real estate and Russia 's largest social network . <p> In the 2000s , he spent eight years behind bars in Russia on kidnapping charges he dismissed as fabricated . The European Court of Human Rights ruled in 2008 that he did n't receive a fair trial , and he was subsequently released . He now spends much of his time in Israel , where he is a prominent philanthropist . <p> Watergen has deployed its machines in over 60 countries , both developing countries lacking water infrastructure , such as India and Uzbekistan , and in areas of developed countries suffering from drought , such as California . <p> Mirilashvili donated the generator to the hospital after he was approached by Jerusalem-based Palestinian businessman Fayez Husseini , a former chief executive of Palestinian mobile phone company Wataniya . Husseini now owns a small firm that promotes water and solar projects in Gaza . <p> Husseini said he learned about the hospital 's critical situation in February while working on another project with the Palestine Children 's Relief Fund . He said he looked at various options and concluded the Watergen machine provided the fastest and simplest solution . <p> " It does n't need pipes . It does n't need concrete , " he said . <p> Bassem Naim , a Hamas official who was not familiar with the project , said he believes it 's all right to cooperate with Israel in humanitarian matters that affect the life of Gazans . <p> Husseini said that for this project , Israeli authorities gave quick approval to move the generator across the border . Although there were no dealings with Hamas authorities in Gaza , he said he did not expect any trouble there either . <p> " I think both sides need to take electricity and drinking water off the table , " he said . " This should not be part of politics . " <h> Get The Nepal24Hours.com App <h> Follow Us On : <p> **31;11799;TOOLONG Through Media under Nepal24hours Inc , is a dedicated online news service delivering and Staffed 24 hours , seven days a week by a dedicated staff at its head office in 11843 Elaine Ave , Artesia , CA 90701 , USA , its bureau office in Kathmandu , Nepal and in bureau offices elsewhere brings the latest and up to date news service . The online news service is being presently served by 16 news professionals . The online news services equipped with latest media technologies and features the latest multimedia technologies , from live video streaming to audio visual packages to searchable archives of news features and background information . The site is updated continuously throughout day and night from the USA and Nepal equally . 
@@41981870 <h> ' Hitler ' does New York <h> Share this : <p> CBS reporter : But the American people , sir , believe that your country Iran is a terrorist nation , exporting terrorism in the world . You must have known that visiting the World Trade Center site would infuriate many Americans . <p> President Mahmud Ahmadinejad : Well , I 'm amazed . How can you speak for the whole of the American nation ? You are representing the media and you 're a reporter . The American nationis made up of 300 million people . There are different points of view over there . <p> The new " Hitler , " at least for a while , has lodged in a prosaic midtown Manhattan hotel . Contrary to a plethora of demonizing myths , this Persian werewolf did not evade his abode to eat kids for breakfast in Central Park . Instead , he turned on a carefully calibrated public relations charm offensive . Whatever his polemical views , for a now-seasoned head of state like Ahmadinejad to turn astonishing US disinformation on Iran , the Middle East and US foreign policy for his own advantage ended up as a string of slam-dunks . <p> Articulate , evasive , manipulative , the Iranian president -- even lost in translation -- was especially skillful in turning US corporate media 's hysteria upside down consistently to paint those in the administration of President George W Bush as incorrigible warmongers . Both at the National Press Club , via video-conference , and live at Columbia University , Ahmadinejad even had the luxury of joking about fabled Western " freedom of information " -- as so many are still " trying to prevent people from talking . " <p> He scored major points among the target audience that really matters : worldwide Muslim public opinion . Contrasting with a plethora of corrupt Arab leaders , Ahmadinejad has been carefully positioning himself as a Muslim folk hero capable of standing up to Western arrogance and defending the rights of the weak ( the Palestinians ) . The way he deflected US ire on the enemy 's own turf will only add to his standing . <p> At the United Nations this week , a remix of 2002 could n't be more inevitable : it 's the same soundtrack of tortuous diplomacy with the bongos and congas and special effects of war beefing up the background . By going on preemptive public relations , Ahmadinejad was clever enough not to commit the same mistake of the previous , " invisible " Hitler , Saddam Hussein . <p> He was also clever in preempting ear-splitting rumors of a next war : " Talk about war is basically a propaganda tool . " One of his key points may not have made an impact in the US , but resonated widely around the world , and not only in the Muslim street : " We oppose the way the US government tries to rule the world " ; there are " more humane methods of establishing peace . " He assured that no Iranian weapons are flowing into Iraq , adding that " regional countries in the Middle East do n't need outside interference . " <p> On uranium enrichment , he repeatedly stressed that it is Iran 's right , as a member of the International Atomic Energy Agency , to conduct a " legal " and " peaceful " nuclear program . " Why should a nation depend on another ? " But if the US would engage in peace talks , so would Iran : " International law is equal to everyone . " As for the US and France , they " are not the world " -- a reference to both the Bush administration 's and the French saber-rattling . " France is a very cultured society , it would not support war . " Humanitarian imperialist French Foreign Minister Bernard Kouchner was summarily brushed aside : he needs to attain " higher maturity . " <p> On Israel , Ahmadinejad said , " We do not recognize a regime based on discrimination , occupation and expansionism , " and he said that country " last week attacked Syria and last year attacked Lebanon " ; pretty much what most of the Middle East agrees with . He may have granted that the Holocaust did take place , but the world needs " more research on it . " The Holocaust is not his main point : it always serves as an intro to one of his key themes -- why should the Palestinians pay the price for something that happened in Europe ? He said he wanted a " clear " answer . No one deigned to provide it . <p> To put in perspective the Iranian hostage crisis in the early days of the Islamic Revolution in 1979 , he said one would need to " go back to US intervention in Iran since 1953 . " His hosts preferred to change the subject . Humming non-stop in the background noise was the " wipe Israel of the map " myth . No one had the intellectual decency to point out that what he really said , in Farsi , in a speech on October 2005 to an annual anti-Zionist conference in Iran , was that " the regime occupying Jerusalem must vanish from the page of time . " He was doing no more than quoting the late ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini -- hoping that an unfair ( toward Palestine ) regime would be replaced by another one more equitable ; he was not threatening to nuke Israel . Warmongers anyway do n't bother to check the facts . <h> You 've got to change your evil ways <p> US corporate media 's treatment of the new " Hitler " seemed to have been scripted by the same ghostwriter lodged in the same ( White ) House . On 60 Minutes , the Columbia Broadcasting System ( CBS ) was firing on all cylinders for a casus belli -- from " There 's no doubt Iran is providing the IEDs " ( improvised explosive devices , in Iraq ) to " Why do n't you just stop denying that you 're building a nuclear bomb ? " Ahmadinejad was bemused , to say the least . CNN for its part could not resist proclaiming , " His state even sponsors terrorism ... in some cases even against US troops in Iraq . " <p> Ahmadinejad succinctly unveiled to the Associated Press the reasons for so much warmongering -- in a way that even a kid would understand : " I believe that some of the talk in this regard arises first of all from anger . Secondly , it serves the electoral purposes domestically in this country . Third , it serves as a cover for policy failures over Iraq . " <p> An even more appalling measure of Western arrogance -- also speaking volumes about " us " when confronted with the incomprehensible " other " -- is the diatribe with which the president of Columbia University , Lee Bollinger , chose to " greet " his guest , a head of state . Bollinger , supposedly an academic , spoke about confronting " the mind of evil . " His crass behavior got him 15 minutes of fame . Were President Bush to be greeted in the same manner in any university in the developing world -- and motives would abound also to qualify him as a " cruel , petty dictator " -- the Pentagon would have instantly switched to **30;1137;TOOLONG mode . <p> Ahmadinejad , to his credit , played it cool . Stressing , in a quirky fashion , his " academic " credentials , he unleashed a poetic rant on " science as a divine gift " just to plunge once again into the Palestinian tragedy . He stressed how Iran " is friendly with the Jewish people " -- which is a fact ( at least 30,000 Jews live undisturbed in Iran ) . Then back to the key point : Why are the Palestinians paying the price for something they had nothing to do with ? Iran has a " humanitarian proposal " to solve the problem -- a referendum where Palestinians would choose their own political destiny . <p> In the absence of informed debate , Ahmadinejad stressed his points the way he wanted to . Iran does not need a nuclear bomb . Iran does not want to manufacture a nuclear bomb . But telling other countries what they can and can not do is another matter entirely . He is more than aware that the nuclear dossier is " a political issue " -- a question of " two or three powers who think they can monopolize science and knowledge . " It 's up to a sovereign Iran to decide whether it needs nuclear fuel . " Why should we need fuel from you ? You do n't even give us spare parts for aircraft . " <p> He also stressed that Iran is a victim of terrorism -- a reference to the Mujahideen-e-Khalq , a micro-terrorist group by any other name , formerly protected by Saddam , now supported by the Bush administration ; but he was also referring to destabilizing black ops by US special forces in the strategically crucial provinces of Khuzestan and Balochistan . <p> Ahmadinejad was not questioned in detail on internal repression , intimidation of independent journalists , what his Interior Ministry is up to , from a crackdown on women not wearing the veil properly to more sinister , unsubstantiated " collaboration with America " charges . When executions were mentioned , he quipped , " Do n't you have capital punishment in the US ? " -- and defended them on the ground that these were drug smugglers . <p> Nobody questioned him on his disastrous economic policies , on the competence of his ministers , on an embryonic pact between Iran and Saudi Arabia to prevent another war in the Middle East , on the upcoming , pivotal summit of the Caspian littoral states in Tehran where Ahmadinejad , Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei and President Vladimir Putin will discuss what happens next -- from technical aspects of Iran 's nuclear program to Bush 's warmongering impetus . Anyway , Ahmadinejad made it clear : Iran is " ready to negotiate with all countries . " The same could not be said about the Bush White House . <p> UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon would have liked this UN General Assembly to discuss seriously climate change and the looming water wars . But nobody -- not even diplomats -- is really paying attention . It 's all about Bush against the " new Hitler . " Gaza is being collectively punished , and Tony " invade Iraq " Blair bleats platitudes about " peace . " About 100,000 brave monks are in the streets of Yangon defying Myanmar 's military junta -- and the UN is not even listening ( " Bring democracy to the Burmese people , " anyone ? ) . It 's just war , war , war . <p> New Yorkers may have shown the new " Hitler " a very ugly face , but at least they should know the war remix 's hard sell is not dubbed in Farsi. 
@@41995169 <h> Israel must face the truth about its territories <h> Share this : <p> The Separation Wall between Israel and Palestine in Bethlehem . Photo : iStock / Getty <p> In June 1967 , in a pre-emptive action that took all of six days , Israel wrested considerable territory from three neighboring Arab countries hellbent on its destruction . The status and subsequent history of those territories has varied greatly . Fifty-three years later , it remains front-page news . <p> The Sinai Peninsula is part of Egypt . Israel occupied it until Egypt agreed to mutual recognition and a peace treaty . As is common , the treaty included the terms governing Israel 's return of the occupied territory and the drawing of a formal border . <p> Syria had claimed sovereignty over the Golan Heights for several decades . Unlike Egypt , Syria never expressed any interest in recognizing Israel or negotiating a border . Israel administered the territory peacefully and productively for decades , shifted its legal regime from military to civilian in 1981 , and eventually claimed sovereignty over it . The US recognized that claim last year . <p> Israel 's actions in the Golan -- conquest , followed by military occupation , leading into a claim of sovereignty over territory formerly belonging to a different sovereign , culminating in calls for international recognition of the claim -- represents a textbook annexation . That definition is important because the term " annexation " is now being bandied about casually and inappropriately vis- ? -vis the two remaining territories : Judea &amp; Samaria and Gaza . <p> Unlike the Sinai and the Golan , these two territories had not belonged to any sovereign since the fall of the Ottoman Empire . Jordan had occupied Judea &amp; Samaria illegally in 1949 and announced an annexation that gained minimal recognition . Jordan 's explicit ( if failed ) annexation was necessary because , even in Jordanian eyes , that land had not previously been sovereign Jordanian territory . In Gaza the matter was even clearer ; Egypt administered the territory as a military occupier from 1949 to 1967 . <p> In 1967 , Israel liberated those two occupied territories . Under intense international pressure -- and to Israel 's lasting shame -- Israel neither proclaimed itself nor behaved as a liberator . That 's why those territories remain in the news . For more than 50 years , their status has remained confused and confusing . <p> That confusion has had significant repercussions . It has confounded the efforts of Jews seeking to rebuild their liberated heartland . It has fueled rage through generations of Arab residents , misled into believing that their violence will produce a sovereign state that has never before existed . <p> It has complicated Israel 's relationships with foreign countries that feel empowered to speak for Arab " refugees " living under a cloud of legal ambiguity . The lack of clarity concerning the legal status of this territory and its residents is the primary factor keeping the Arab/Israeli conflict alive . <p> Early this year , the Trump Plan proposed breaking this logjam in the only way possible : by conceding the truth . Israel would extend its civil legal codes to cover the sovereign Israeli land it liberated in 1967 and the Israeli citizens who reside upon it . <p> It would preserve , for four years , the legal ambiguity surrounding the parts of its liberated , sovereign land where the population is overwhelmingly non-citizens . If , during that period , the Arab population demonstrates competent , peaceful self-governance , Israel will grant them an extremely liberal form of autonomy . <p> To date , Israel has accepted this proposal but taken no action to implement it . A joint Israeli/American team is studying the demographics and terrain to devise clarifying maps . They expect to finish their work this summer , after which Israel is expected to extend its civil laws within the mapped territory . <p> International reaction to Israel 's clarifying announcement -- like international reaction to the Trump Plan -- will be mixed . It will run the gamut from immediate US recognition to vilification from the world 's most anti-American and anti-Semitic regimes . Most of the West and most of the Arab states will fall somewhere in between . <p> In the US , the issue will hit the Democrats hard just in time for their convention . Their ascendant progressive faction is virulently anti-Israel , and it has been pulling the party strongly in that direction . <p> Joe Biden -- the party 's presumptive presidential nominee and historically more of a moderate -- has already announced positions antithetical to Israel 's security . He may promise to withdraw recognition , restore the legal ambiguity , and reignite the conflict . Various European parties may push in the same direction . <p> The Arabs , on the other hand , have become far more realistic . While every Arab state will condemn Israel 's move , few will let their condemnations negate their own national interests . The states -- Saudi Arabia , the United Arab Emirates , Egypt , Oman , Morocco , and others -- most eager to move beyond the Arab/Israeli conflict will continue to do so . Their cautious support for the Trump Plan has already signaled those intentions . <p> The Trump Plan is finally pushing Israel to face the truth : It liberated its own sovereign territory in 1967 , then proceeded to cower in fear before an anti-Semitic world . <p> That truth will indeed set the Middle East free -- free of the Arab/Israeli conflict that has plagued it for nearly a century . 
@@42001919 <h> Trump a ' brand ' for global trend toward hate , says artist Ai Weiwei <p> Ai Weiwei said Thursday he sees US President Donald Trump as the " brand " for a global trend toward hatred and division , as the Chinese artist prepared to open a politically charged exhibition in Jerusalem . <p> In an interview with AFP , Ai also expressed his passion for the cause of refugees and his criticism of his home country -- where he currently can not return . <p> Ai Weiwei 's new exhibition in Israel . Photo : Ai Weiwei via Instagram . <p> At the same time , he spoke of the decision artists such as himself face when deciding to exhibit or perform in Israel due to calls for a boycott over the country 's occupation of Palestinian territory . <p> For Ai , who has visited the occupied West Bank and the Gaza Strip , where he filmed a piece included in the exhibition , being absent from the argument is not an option . <p> " My voice should be heard , " he said at the Israel Museum in Jerusalem , where his exhibition opens to the public on Friday and will run until October 28 . <p> " I have to make the argument ... ( and not say ) ' OK , let 's boycott it , and it 's nothing to do with me . ' I think that 's too easy . " <p> The 250-square-metre ( 2,700 sq foot ) , hand-woven carpet carefully replicates the floor of the Haus der Kunst in Munich , where the Nazis once displayed art they deemed worthy . <p> The carpet took a day to bring into the museum and takes up nearly the entire floor of one hall , with visitors allowed to walk on it . <p> ' Urgency ' to respond <p> Ai , a stocky man with stubble on his chin and an informal demeanour , said he believes there is an " urgency " for artists such as himself to respond to the world 's injustices . <p> Asked about Trump , who famously pledged to build a wall between the United States and Mexico and sought to bar travel to his country from a number of Muslim-majority countries , Ai said he saw him " as a brand for some kind of global trend " . <h> AFP <p> AFP is a global news agency delivering fast , in-depth coverage of the events shaping our world from wars and conflicts to politics , sports , entertainment and the latest breakthroughs in health , science and technology . More by AFP <h> What is Hong Kong Free Press ? <p> Founded in 2015 , Hong Kong Free Press is a non-profit , English-language newspaper -- run by journalists and completely independent . <p> HKFP is only answerable only to readers , not shareholders , media tycoons or corporate umbrella groups . Our work is governed by a Code of Ethics and we publish an Annual Report and Transparency Report every year . Learn more about how you can support us and ensure our independence . 
@@42003758 <h> Share this : <p> A cautious return to a normal life continued in some parts of the world on Sunday as virus restrictions eased , with Spain announcing a resumption of foreign tourism and its top soccer league . <p> But the disease continued its surge in large parts of South America , with the death toll in Brazil passing 22,000 and infections topping 347,000 , the world 's second-highest caseload . <p> Muslims and Christians around the world gathered Sunday to celebrate their faith as Eid al-Fitr begins and churches reopen from lockdowns , presenting fresh challenges for authorities trying to curb the coronavirus . <p> Efforts to lift lockdowns continued on both sides of the Atlantic , with US President Donald Trump sending a signal of his intentions with a golfing trip -- his first such outing since March 8 . <p> Click on the link at the top of the story to see a live version . Source : Johns Hopkins University <p> With infection numbers stabilising in the West , many governments are trying to move towards lighter social distancing measures that they hope will revive moribund business and tourism sectors . <p> In Spain , which has enforced one of the world 's strictest lockdowns since mid-March , Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez sought to reassure potential visitors , saying that from July 1 , " entry for foreign tourists into Spain will resume in secure conditions " . <p> The country 's La Liga football could return on June 8 , he added . <p> Italy is also due to reopen its borders to foreign tourists from June 3 . <p> French churches were preparing to hold their first Sunday masses in more than two months after the government bowed to a ruling that they should be reopened -- provided proper precautions were taken . <p> Nearly two weeks into the relaxation of its shutdown , France finally allowed mosques , synagogues and churches to reopen , but priests , pastors , rabbis and imams will still have to ensure the correct safety measures are in force . <p> Worshippers will have to wear masks , disinfectant gel must be on hand and seating will need to be organised to ensure people keep a safe distance from each other . <p> France 's mosques nevertheless called on Muslims to stay at home to mark the Eid al-Fitr holiday marking the end of the Muslim fasting month of Ramadan . They said they would gradually resume services from June 3 . <p> In Saudi Arabia , Eid prayers will be held at the two holy mosques in the cities of Mecca and Medina " without worshippers " , authorities said on Saturday as the kingdom began a five-day curfew after infections quadrupled since the start of Ramadan . <p> While for Christians in Jerusalem the Church of the Holy Sepulchre will reopen on Sunday but with tight restrictions . <p> The virus is still a cause for concern in the region , with tightly packed Gaza registering its first death on Saturday . <p> Some Muslims in Indonesia were taking radical steps to reunite with loved ones for Eid , with people in the world 's most populous Muslim majority country scrambling to get around lockdown rules . <p> The government has banned most travel across the country , and many residents are turning to smugglers and false certificates . <p> One man told AFP he got a fake certificate for his daughter to travel home from university in the capital , Jakarta . <p> " We want to celebrate Eid al-Fitr together like in past years , " he said . <p> Globally about 5.29 million people have now been infected with the virus which has killed 341,000 , with Latin America the new global epicentre of the pandemic . <p> Far-right Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro has played down the severity of the outbreak but faces increasing pressure amid a rising death toll and the resignations of two of his health ministers within weeks . <p> Scrutiny intensified after release of a video of a cabinet meeting on April 22 -- as the country was fast becoming a virus flashpoint -- in which Bolsonaro and his deputies barely mentioned the pandemic . <p> One of the few mentions of Covid-19 came when the environment minister suggested the government take advantage of the distraction created by the virus to relax environmental protection rules . <p> Neighboring Peru is also struggling . The country of 32 million has registered more than 3,100 deaths . <p> In Ecuador , tourism Minister Rosi Prado told AFP the pandemic could cost the country 's important tourism sector $400 million a month . <p> With the economic toll from lockdowns rising across the globe , efforts continue to kickstart shattered economies . <p> In the United States , where the death toll is nearing 100,000 , Trump has aggressively pushed to reopen the economy , defying the advice of health experts . <p> The US economy has shed almost 40 million jobs this year and many companies , most recently car rental giant Hertz , have gone to the wall . But most states have begun easing their lockdowns and many on Saturday reopened public beaches . <h> Restless public <p> " We just get tired of being stuck in the house . There 's not much else to do . So I came to the beach , " stay-at-home mother Kayla Lambert said , as her two children played in the surf in Galveston , Texas . <p> Resistance to lockdowns among the restless public has been gathering steam , with protests in Spain and Germany over the weekend . <p> Thousands gathered in Madrid on Saturday to demand an end to the rules and Sanchez 's resignation , in a protest led by the far-right party Vox . <p> And in Britain a scandal erupted over a disclosure that a top government adviser had even flouted the rules . <p> Dominic Cummings was seen visiting his parents 400 kilometres away from his London home during the country 's lockdown , despite suffering from virus symptoms . <p> He denies any wrongdoing but faces calls to quit . <p> Others sounded a rare positive note about the effects of the virus , enjoying open spaces that were once packed with tourists . <p> Laia Torra , in Barcelona 's UNESCO-listed Park Guell , said the park had become too crowded in recent years . <p> " It 's wonderful , it 's like going back 20 years , " she said as her children played . 
