@@84788873 <h> Syria : UNRWA - Humanitarian Snapshot , March 2020 <h> Attachments <p> On 17 March 2020 , UNRWA launched a Flash Appeal asking for US$ 14 million to prepare and respond to the COVID-19 outbreak over an initial three-month period . The Appeal outlines the Agency 's immediate priorities and nancial requirements for health and other services related to the pandemic in the West Bank , Gaza , Jordan , Lebanon and Syria . The Flash Appeal is being updated and will be released again in early May as needs and requirements develop in response to the evolving crisis . All 103 UNRWA-run schools and 5 TVET centres in Syria are temporarily closed ; yet , all 25 UNRWA health facilities remain operational and continue to provide essential primary health services , which today are more crucial than ever , to contain and address the spread of the ongoing pandemic. 
@@61837606 <h> What do Israel 's US-backed annexation plans mean for West Bank ? <p> Last Wednesday at 1:03 PM <p> Tell your friends <p> Arab foreign ministers are to hold talks on Thursday on Israel 's US-backed plans to annex key parts of the occupied West Bank . <p> Annexation of the mosaic of settlements Israel has built across the occupied West Bank has long been a dream of the political right but to the fury of the Palestinians it now looks set to become reality with the support of US President Donald Trump <p> AFP <p> Concern has mounted since Israel 's right-wing Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu -- an outspoken advocate of annexing large parts of the Palestinian territory -- agreed to form a coalition with his centrist rival Benny Gantz . <p> The Netanyahu-Gantz agreement includes a framework for implementing annexations outlined in US President Donald Trump 's controversial plan to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict , unveiled at the White House in January . <p> Trump , a staunch supporter of Israel , tapped his son-in-law and senior adviser Jared Kushner to forge a Middle East peace plan . <p> Kushner consulted widely with the Israelis on the initiative , but there was no input from the Palestinians after they cut all ties with the Trump administration accusing it of bias . <p> The Oslo peace accords of the 1990s gave the Palestinians self-rule in parts of the West Bank . <p> But some 60 percent of the territory -- dubbed Area C -- remains under full Israeli civil and military control . <p> That includes all Israeli settlements and Trump 's plan gives US support for their annexation . <p> It also offers US recognition for Israeli annexation of the Jordan Valley , a strategic strip along the Jordanian border that makes up around a third of the West Bank . <p> Trump 's plan provides for the creation of a Palestinian state in the remainder of the West Bank , including the city of Ramallah where president Mahmud Abbas is based , and in the Gaza Strip , which is controlled by Abbas rivals Hamas . <p> Israel seized control of the West Bank , including east Jerusalem , in the Six-Day War of 1967 and has occupied it ever since . <p> More than 600,000 Israelis live in settlements constructed in the territory , which Palestinians regard as the mainstay of their future state . <p> The settlements are considered illegal under international law because they were built under military occupation . <p> - How the US position evolved ? - <p> Kushner has said Washington wants an Israeli government in place that could work with the US on implementation of Trump 's plan . <p> The Jewish state had been without a stable government since December 2018 . <p> The Netanyahu-Gantz deal , sealed on April 20 after three inconclusive elections , looks set to end the stalemate . <p> The United States said Monday it was ready to recognise Israel 's annexation of much of the West Bank but asked the new unity government also to negotiate with the Palestinians . <p> " We are prepared to recognise Israeli actions , " a State Department spokesperson said . <p> The step would be " in the context of the Government of Israel agreeing to negotiate with the Palestinians along the lines set forth in President Trump 's Vision " , she said . <p> - What have Gantz , Netanyahu agreed ? - <p> Netanyahu has lauded the Trump plan as a " historic " opportunity for Israel . <p> Gantz , a former armed forces chief , has also praised the initiative but raised concern about Israel acting unilaterally . <p> Apart from the US , no country has publicly backed the annexation plans . <p> Under the three-year coalition agreement , which is due to be approved by parliament in the coming days , Netanyahu will serve as premier for 18 months , with Gantz as his alternate . <p> They will swap at the mid-way point . <p> On the Trump plan , the coalition deal states : " The prime minister and alternate prime minister will act together and in a coordinated manner in full agreement with the United States . " <p> They will also conduct " international dialogue on the issue , while pursuing the security and strategic interests of the State of Israel , including the need for maintaining regional stability , maintaining peace agreements and striving for future peace agreements " . <p> It says the premier can bring the Trump annexation plan to the cabinet and parliament for " debate and approval " from July 1 . <p> Israeli media have suggested the initial annexation may be only partial -- possibly starting with Maale Adumim , a large settlement on the eastern outskirts of Jerusalem . <h> What will it entail ? <p> Around 65,000 Palestinians live in the Jordan Valley , along with fewer than 10,000 Israelis . <p> It is not clear whether those Palestinians will be given Israeli documents . <p> That number excludes the ancient city of Jericho , the largest Palestinian town in the area , which is already under Palestinian self-rule as stipulated in the Oslo accords . <p> It will potentially be left as an enclave , entirely surrounded by Israeli-annexed territory . <h> How have Palestinians responded ? <p> The Palestinians condemned Israel 's new " annexation government " . <p> " ( Annexation ) means ending the two-state solution and the dismantling of the rights of the people of Palestine , " Palestinian prime minister Mohammed Shtayyeh tweeted . <p> President Mahmud Abbas threatened to rip up all agreements with Israel . <p> The UN special envoy said that annexation would " constitute a serious violation of international law ( and ) deal a devastating blow to the two-state solution " . <p> There have been suggestions the Palestinians could call on Russia to intervene . <p> The 22-member Arab League -- just two of whose members , Egypt and Jordan , have peace treaties with Israel -- has called Thursday 's virtual meeting to discuss how to galvanise international opposition . 
@@61857534 <h> He Says ' Wall , ' They Say ' Border Security ' : A Glossary of the Border Debate <p> 02/01/2019 <p> Tell your friends <p> Kellyanne Conway , White House adviser , recently dismissed as a " silly semantic argument " questions about President Donald Trump 's use of the word " wall " -- is it concrete , steel , see-through , a " smart wall , " slatted , piked , solar-powered , a chain-link fence or just a metaphor ? <p> He Says ' Wall , ' They Say ' Border Security ' : A Glossary of the Border Debate <p> New York Times <p> The semantics , however , are anything but trivial . If the White House and House Democrats are to reach a deal to avert another government shutdown by the Feb. 15 deadline , they must first reach a rough d ? tente over what they are talking about -- in particular , the definition of Trump 's " wall , " and of " border security , " the Democrats ' catchall description of their own approach . <p> " There 's no magic glossary telling you the difference between a fence and wall or a barrier , they are kind of interchangeable , " said Jeh Johnson , who served as President Barack Obama 's homeland security secretary from 2013 to 2017 . <p> " There is a distinction between governing and political rhetoric , and people should not get trapped in the binary , " Johnson said . " The moment when we reach a compromise on the vocabulary is the moment we reach a compromise on the policy . " <p> Here is a glossary that could determine the fate of the debate . <p> <p> The Wall <p> It started its rhetorical life at 35 to 40 feet high in early 2016 , peaked at 50 feet midcampaign , then fell back to 32 feet in January 2018 . <p> In the early days of the 2016 campaign , Trump said the wall should be built of " precast concrete " with " no windows , no nothing . " He now says that he always meant that steel and " see-through " materials could work , too , and has , from time to time , mused about festooning the wall with solar panels . In December , he tweeted an image showing a puzzling rendering of a picketed " Steel Slat Barrier . " <p> Soon after taking office , the president commissioned eight prototypes of wall designs , four made of concrete and the remainder fabricated from steel and other materials . They ranged in height from 18 to 30 feet . <p> The models were tested last year , and the results were inconclusive , according to leaked documents showing that all of them could be breached with a determined effort and the right tools . But Trump administration officials say that the testing provided them with valuable information , and lessons learned were incorporated into an already built section of slatted 30-foot-high " bollard " fence near Calexico , California . <p> As Trump 's image of the wall changed , so did its price tag . He now wants $5.7 billion for the wall -- but that number has bounced between $4 billion and $20 billion over the past three years . During the shutdown fight , he even suggested that he would accept an unspecified " down payment . " <p> ' I Would Ask for Wall . ' <p> Kirstjen Nielsen said this in December before the House Judiciary Committee . <p> Nielsen , the homeland security secretary , was roundly mocked for dropping the article " the " before " wall " -- with critics likening it to the " I love lamp " scene from " Anchorman . " <p> In reality , Nielsen was trying to keep her request as vague as possible to facilitate a compromise , while staying nominally true to Trump 's campaign promise . <p> " She was lampooned , " Johnson said . " But she was really just trying to introduce the concept that a wall could be almost any kind of a barrier . " <p> The fact that Nielsen felt compelled to use the " W " word indicated her concern about alienating members of Trump 's base , who roar " build the wall " at his rallies . To that end , members of the president 's team have been quietly removing the word " replacement " from public statements about upgrades to existing border barriers . <p> They instead insert the word " new , " according to an official familiar with the practice . <p> Border Security <p> Democrats have embraced the phrase border security , meant to describe a comprehensive approach that includes improvements in technology , new surveillance programs and increases in Border Patrol staffing . <p> As part of the failed 2014 " Gang of Eight " effort to overhaul the nation 's immigration system , a coalition of Senate Democrats supported a $46 billion bill to expand the Border Patrol , with improvements to existing fencing . The bill was shot down by House Republicans because it included a process that would have allowed many immigrants who entered the country illegally to remain in the country . <p> But the bill now stands as evidence to Trump and congressional Republicans of how Democrats in previous years voted to increase funding for barriers under the broad rubric of border security , when packaged with a path to citizenship . <p> But Trump 's political weaponization of the wall is now making such a compromise increasingly untenable for Democrats . " We 're not doing a wall , " Speaker Nancy Pelosi told reporters this month . " Does anyone have any doubt that we 're not doing a wall ? " <p> The 2020 presidential campaign is making compromise even more difficult . Sen. Kamala Harris , D-Calif. , who announced this week that she is running for president , declared the wall " a medieval vanity project , " then vowed to make opposition to it a centerpiece of her campaign . <p> " The wall concept is an anathema to most Democrats , " said Geoff Garin , a veteran Democratic pollster who works for Priorities USA , a political action committee . " They are more than willing to have a granular conversation about what is common sense and effective border security , but it 's not going to be a conversation about a wall in any sense that Trump has used the word . " <p> Fencing <p> A bipartisan deal in 2006 -- supported by Hillary Clinton and Obama -- included funding for new and reinforced " fencing " along 700 miles of the southern border . <p> The word " fence " is , for the moment at least , less politically charged than " wall . " <p> In 2006 , a coalition of Republicans and 90 Democrats in the House and the Senate -- including Obama and Clinton , then senators -- passed President George W. Bush 's plan to add more than 700 new miles of double-layered " reinforced " fencing . <p> But what exactly is meant by " fence " ? The southern border is already a crazy-quilt of different border barriers of different sizes , different materials , installed in different eras -- known , by and large , as fencing . <p> And they have different uses . Urban chain-link is meant to deter migrants on foot ; an array of metal and concrete " vehicle barriers " have been strung in remote areas ; and stretches of concertina wire are used to fill in gaps where there are no permanent structures and on top of structures where there are some . There are also dozens of variants -- pickets , corrugated panels , berms , X-shaped steel barriers , even planked walls placed along Gulf Coast beaches . <p> In recent budget bills , Democrats have insisted on a provision limiting the expansion of barriers to " existing " technologies , a move intended to frame any new construction as an old " fence " rather than a new " wall , " according to a senior Democratic congressional aide . <p> Back in 2006 , Pelosi and other congressional liberals voted against the reinforced fencing bill . It is not clear they would support a similar measure even if it were part of a more extensive deal that included a reprieve for the young immigrants in the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program , also known as DACA . <p> Sen. Chuck Schumer of New York , the Democratic leader , was one of those who supported the 2006 bill , and late last year offered Trump a $25 billion deal that included protections for DACA recipients -- and left open the possibility of more fencing . Pelosi did not agree to the proposal . <p> Pedestrian Fencing <p> The Department of Homeland Security has prioritized a plan to build about 100 miles of new fencing to keep out " pedestrians . " <p> Trump 's $5.7 billion request would pay for the installation of barriers on another 215 miles of border -- in addition to an estimated 654 miles of fencing , much of it in the form of vehicle barriers , in place along the 1,900-mile border . <p> That number would include installation of about 100 miles of barriers to keep out migrants , many from Central America , seeking to enter the country on foot in the Rio Grande Valley in Texas . Before the shutdown , Republican senators , led by John Cornyn of Texas , proposed passing $1.6 billion in funding for 65 miles of that project . <p> The idea went nowhere at the time . But a handful of congressional Democrats , including Sen. Jon Tester of Montana , did not rule out supporting the plan in the future . <p> ' Smart ' Wall <p> Nobody is quite sure what that means . <p> " The walls we are building are not medieval walls , " Trump said on Jan. 25 during his rambling Rose Garden announcement of the three-week funding deal that ended the 35-day government shutdown . <p> " These barriers are made of steel , have see-through visibility , which is very important , and are equipped with sensors , monitors and cutting-edge technology , including state-of-the-art drones , " he told reporters . <p> It seems like an unlikely gateway to compromise , but some Democrats believe the president was signaling his willingness to accept funding for new technologies , beyond steel and concrete . <p> Two days earlier , Rep. James E. Clyburn of South Carolina , the third-ranking Democrat in the House , told reporters that he would be open to fulfilling Trump 's $5.7 billion request if it were spent on a smart wall , targeted at improving border surveillance , the expanded use of drones and X-ray technology to screen for weapons and drugs , as well as on the hiring of more Border Patrol agents . <p> Trump , aides said , is open to spending some of the money on similar improvements . His idea of a smart wall was inspired by the one built by Israel on its border with Gaza , which uses high-tech surveillance equipment , including closed-circuit cameras . <p> Barrier <p> " You can call it a ' barrier , ' you can call it whatever you want , " Trump said during a news conference on Jan. 11 , adding , " They can name it whatever . They can name it ' peaches . ' I do n't care what they name it . But we need money for that barrier . " <p> Trump 's language has softened as the funding fight has intensified , and " barrier " now enjoys pride of place next to " wall . " <p> " If the committee of Republicans and Democrats now meeting on Border Security is not discussing or contemplating a Wall or Physical Barrier , they are Wasting their time ! " he tweeted on Wednesday . <p> A day later , he was back to wall-only : " Lets just call them WALLS from now on and stop playing political games ! A WALL is a WALL ! " he tweeted on Thursday . <p> Whether Trump was providing semantic cover for a compromise deal may depend on whether he is disciplined enough to tone down his messaging . <p> His allies seem eager for him to do so . <p> " It does n't have to be a wall , " Rep. Kevin McCarthy , R-Calif. and the minority leader , told reporters on Tuesday . " Physical barriers would be fine . " 
@@61858269 <h> Iran 's 40 Years of Darkness <p> From its beginning 40 years ago this week , the Islamic Republic of Iran has enjoyed the generous benefit of the doubt from credulous observers in the West . History has n't been kind to their sympathy . <p> " The depiction of him as fanatical , reactionary and the bearer of crude prejudices seems certainly and happily false , " Princeton 's Richard Falk wrote of the Ayatollah Khomeini in an op-ed for The New York Times on Feb. 16 , 1979 . " Having created a new model of popular revolution based , for the most part , on nonviolent tactics , Iran may yet provide us with a desperately-needed model of humane governance for a third-world country . " <p> A decade later , after a reign of unbridled terror that culminated with the infamous fatwa against Salman Rushdie and the 1988 mass murder of thousands of political prisoners , including children , there was another false dawn . Several , in fact . <p> Ali-Akbar Hashemi-Rafsanjani , who became Iran 's president after Khomeini 's death , was viewed as a reformer . In truth he was a kleptocrat who orchestrated an international bombing and assassination campaign stretching from Buenos Aires to Berlin . Rafsanjani 's successor , Mohammad Khatami , was supposed to be a moderate . That did n't stop the bloody crackdown on student protests in 1999 or Iran 's illicit pursuit of a nuclear weapons program during his tenure . <p> Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was one Iranian leader who got little international sympathy . Yet even under him Western reporters penned flattering tributes to Iran 's purported openness -- right up until the moment the regime stole the 2009 election and brutally suppressed the failed , if inspiring , Green Movement that followed . <p> Next was Hassan Rouhani , a man the West imagined it could do business with . Business it did , in the form of the Iran nuclear deal and -- until the Trump administration put an end to it -- the lifting of sanctions . <p> Yet as goodwill flowed toward Iran , malice flowed out . In 2015 the government executed close to 1,000 people , roughly double the figure of 2010 . Last month , it publicly hanged a 31-year-old man on charges of kidnapping and having sex with another man ; he 's one of an estimated 5,000 gays and lesbians killed by the Islamic Republic . <p> Abroad , and not just in the Middle East , Iran and its proxies continue to plot violence . An Iranian attempt to bomb the meeting of an opposition group near Paris was foiled last summer . In October , Copenhagen recalled its ambassador to Tehran after another Iranian assassination attempt was prevented in Denmark . In January , Germany banned Iran 's Mahan Air because of its role in ferrying arms and fighters to commit atrocities in Syria . German intelligence officials have also accused Iran of trying to acquire nuclear materials in 2016 , after the nuclear deal went into effect . <p> These are countries that want better relations with Iran and have made efforts to steer a course independent from the Trump administration . Tehran 's behavior gives the lie to the idea that it matches conciliation with conciliation . It matches conciliation with contempt . <p> Donald Trump 's foreign policy has mostly been shambolic , but credit where it is due : Other than the stunning folly of the announced withdrawal of U.S. forces from Syria , where they could help check Tehran 's regional ambitions , he has gotten Iran mostly right . <p> America 's withdrawal from the nuclear deal has not led Iran to resume its nuclear program ( despite some gesturing to that effect ) . A tougher U.S. tone is likely behind the sharp drop in Iranian harassment of U.S. Navy ships in the Persian Gulf . The resumption of sanctions has put Iran under acute economic stress . <p> Most importantly , ordinary Iranians know where to pin the blame . Last summer , social media captured Iranian protesters chanting " Death to Palestine , " " No to Gaza , no to Lebanon , " and " Leave Syria and think of us . " These are people sick of going hungry and unpaid while singing the " Death to America " theme song . <p> The overarching goal of Western policy can not be to appease Iran into making partial and temporary concessions on its nuclear program , purchased at the cost of financing its other malignant aims . The goal must be to put an end , finally , to 40 years of Persian night . <p> This should not be a military campaign . But it can be a campaign of economic pressure , to put Iran 's leaders to a fundamental choice between their ideological ambitions and the needs of their people . It can be a campaign of diplomatic pressure , to underscore that a regime that routinely flouts the rules of civilized countries ca n't be treated as one itself . It can be an intelligence campaign , to continue to expose and subvert Iran 's efforts to acquire and field strategic arms . <p> Above all , it has to be a human-rights campaign . Liberals and progressives should not find it difficult to join conservatives in championing the rights of women in Iran , particularly women removing their headscarves in public and courageously facing the consequences . Nor should it be difficult for liberals and conservatives alike to call attention to the plight of Iran 's political prisoners , much as both sides were once moved to action by the plight of political prisoners in the Soviet Union or China or South Africa . <p> Back when there was an idea of something called the free world , led by the United States , Americans cared about such things and were willing to act . It is not too late for Americans to do so again , when so many are still in the dark . 
@@61870944 <p> Medics evacuate a Palestinian woman who inhaled tear gas fired by Israeli forces during a protest at the Israel-Gaza border fence , in the southern Gaza Strip , June 21 , 2019 . Image : REUTERS/Ibraheem Abu Mustafa <p> May 15 is widely marked as the 72 anniversary of the Palestinian Al-Nakba or the catastrophe . <p> This is a day of mournful recollection of the human and territorial tragedy that historically befell Palestine after the 1948 Balfour declaration , which contentiously established Israel as " a national home for the Jewish people " hard in the heels of the Holocaust . <p> Prior to this catastrophic event that was enacted by the then British Foreign Secretary James Arthur Balfour , it is well-known that both the Palestinians and the Jews had lived harmoniously under the previous Ottoman rule . Thereafter , the Palestinian territory and people have been at the mercy of the Zionist occupation with its obdurate dehumanisation , encroachment , harassment and brutalisation that draws a close parallel to the open-air prison of the past South African apartheid system . <p> Small wonder why the late South African peace icon Nelson Mandela said : " We know too well that our freedom is incomplete without the freedom of the Palestinians . " <p> Currently , Palestine is faced with an infestive permeation of the novel coronavirus and its response to the health crisis is severely encumbered by the preexisting oppressional limitations such as the security blockades imposed on it by Israel and Egypt in addition to having overcrowded refugee camps and an under-resourced and strained healthcare system . <p> However , there still seems to be little honesty and bipartisan action on the part of the International Community to end this sably and the long-standing plight of Palestinians and their territorial conflict with Israel . For example , the Trump times in Washington have variously emboldened the occupying regime of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu by fanatically abetting to weaken and humiliate Palestinians from economic , diplomatic and military angles . <p> The Guardian newspaper for instance lately reported that the United States had announced it will give $5 million to the Palestinians to help them fight the coronavirus epidemic in what it described as " roughly 1 per cent of the amount Washington provided a year before Donald Trump cut almost all aid . " <p> Neighbouring Arab states are also largely controlled by disunited and self-seeking leaders who are indifferent to the Palestinian cause as the UN remains a toothless dog in the conflict . The 72 years of Palestinian suffering and devastation thus remains a blot on humanity . But it is not too late to give this oppressed and occupied lot a new and just beginning . <p> More urgently now , however , is that the world should ease the pandemic burden on Palestine through humanitarian and medical assistance . 
@@85004497 <h> Rapid Gender Assessment - A Summary of Early Gender Impacts of the COVID-19 Pandemic , March 2020 <h> Attachments <p> Across every sphere , the impacts of COVID-19 are exacerbated for women and girls . <p> On March 5 , the Palestinian Authority ( PA ) confirmed the first four cases of a new coronavirus , 2019-novel coronavirus ( 2019-nCoV ) or COVID-19 , in the West Bank and promptly responded by declaring a state of emergency . The virus was identified on January 8 , 2020 as originating from the city of Wuhan in China and has since spread to 210 countries , infecting more than 1.8 million people and caused fatalities all around the globe . COVID-19 can cause severe illness , with a case fatality rate as high as 3.5% . On January 30 , the World Health Organization ( WHO ) declared the spread of COVID-19 a global health emergency.1 As of April 28 , the Palestinian Ministry of Health was reporting 341 confirmed cases , 91 recovered , 12,342 in quarantine and two dead . <p> As in other parts of the world , Palestinian officials have shuttered businesses and restricted movement within the areas under their control in an attempt to mitigate the spread of the virus . The ongoing Israeli occupation and the barriers and checkpoints that characterize Israel 's overarching control of the area have hindered these efforts ; such barriers are sometimes porous for individuals that can carry the virus but also block a coordinated government and humanitarian response . Regions of particular concern are East Jerusalem and the Gaza Strip . <p> Among those most impacted , however , are women and girls . Across every sphere , from health to the economy , security to social protection , the impacts of COVID-19 are exacerbated for women and girls simply by virtue of their sex . All of these impacts are further amplified in contexts of fragility , conflict , refuge , displacement and emergencies where social cohesion is already undermined and institutional capacity and services are limited . <p> CARE Palestine has carried out a Rapid Gender Analysis in order to highlight for policymakers the importance of addressing the gender impacts of this pandemic and social prejudices and gender norms that discriminate against women in the public and private spheres . The analysis focuses on the following areas : <p> Decision-making &amp; Coping Mechanisms <p> Protection with a Focus on Gender-Based Violence ( GBV ) <p> Political &amp; Community Participation <p> Access to Financial Resources <p> Access to Humanitarian Basic Needs and Services &amp; Information <p> This report is intended for policy makers , the Palestinian Authority , civil society organizations -- local and international -- community members , donors , and the international community at large . It is organized around broad themes and areas of focus of particular importance to those whose programming advances gender equality and reduces gender inequalities . It seeks to deepen the current gender analysis available by encompassing learning from global gender data available for the COVID-19 public health emergency . 
@@61886440 <p> Police crack down on suspected Mungiki adherents in Mathare in a past operation . Many residents in Nairobi estates are at the mercy of illegal gangs . File , Standard <p> Nairobi Bishop Josphat Njoroge Gitau has decided to acquire a gun after he received a warning to desist from persuading youth to abandon the Gaza gang . <p> Bishop Josphat Njoroge Gitau has decided to acquire a gun after he received a warning to desist from persuading youth to abandon the Gaza gang . The caution allegedly came few weeks ago from gang members who warned him of unspecified consequences if he continued interfering with their affairs . The bishop reported the matter at the Kayole Police Station and has applied for a firearm certificate . Gaza is active in parts of Kayole and Njiru where it started two years ago . " Some of Gaza members are not happy with the work I am doing . They have been plotting how to stop me but I will not be cowed , " says Njoroge . He heads the Jubilee Restoration Christian Church ( JRCC ) in Njiru . With the support of former Mungiki leader Ndura Waruingi , the reformed criminal took the risky path of trying to convince young boys to severe links with the gang . He reckons more than 50 youths have heeded to his call with an assortment of guns being surrendered . <p> Njoroge 's boldness is a stark contrast of the fear exhibited in most city residents who live in silence amidst other gangs like Mungiki , Superpower , Siafu , 42 Brothers , Nyuki , Apana Tambua , Portmore , Yausa , Superpower Boys , Taliban , Sitaki Kujua , Kapedo , Mgenge , Taka Taka , Kamjeshi , Kamkunji Pressure Group , Baghdad , Usiku Sacco , Mugumoini Youth Chapter and Mzuka . The fear was evident on two elders in Dandora estate following last month 's killing of Alex Ngugi , a crime suspect . The elders who are members of the local Nyumba Kumi committee claimed their work is difficult due to threats posed by Mungiki . They are forced to operate in secrecy . " We fear openly talking to strangers or visitors like you because as soon as we part ways , emissaries will be sent demanding to know the nature of our discussions , " said one of the elders , a pastor . It is believed Ngugi was a gang member . He was shot dead by police after he at gunpoint , violently robbed Casmil Okello of a laptop , mobile phone and Sh2,000 on February 20 . A day later , the body of his father , David Chege , was found abandoned in a car in Gitaru alongside those of Martin Musyoka , Shadrack Njuguna and Joseph Mwangi . <p> Criminal gangs usually instill fear in people who hardly report to police after losing trust in the law enforcers . Chairman of the National Committee on Citizen Participation in Security , Joseph Kaguthi , concurred with wananchi 's predicament in the face of the gangs . Kaguthi blamed police for not taking their job seriously , accusing some of them of colluding with members of criminal gangs , and in the process , jeopardizing any gains made by Nyumba Kumi committes . " Police are betraying Nyumba Kumi members . That is what they have been telling us . They have little trust for the police who are part of these gangs . Quite discouraging that some police officers leak out confidential information in exchange of bribes , " said Kaguthi . According to Kenya Alliance Resident Association ( KARA ) chief executive officer , Henry Ochieng ' , some of the gangs have networks right inside police stations . <p> " These criminal gangs are found across various corners of Nairobi where they operate in discreet with no known structures . Residents fear reporting about them . It is time all stakeholders had an honest discussion on how to deal with the gangs . Issuing amnesty and threats does not address the situation , " observed Ochieng ' . The most notorious are Mungiki , Siafu , Gaza and Superpower , according to police officers familiar with the gangs . Ndura however claims Mungiki is dead in the city . " There is no Mungiki in Nairobi , what is happening is that remnants regrouped into different criminal gangs that pursue certain interests in their respective strongholds , " said Ndura who abandoned the sect . Mungiki is active in Kasarani , Mwiki , Lunga Lunga , Laini-Saba , Mukuru , Dandora and Maili-Saba . Siafu calls the shots in parts of Kibra , Dandora and Lang'ata while Superpower reigns in Eastleigh with its offshoot , Superpower Boys , wreaking havoc in Komarock , Saika and Mowlem . Some of the officers and administrators flatly denied the gangs exist . " Superpower died a long time ago as far as I am concerned , " retorted a chief in Eastleigh while Kayole OCPD Joseph Gichangi said Gaza was a creation of the media and the imagination of residents . <p> The gang is constantly in the news for all the wrong reasons . It started in Kayole and Njiru before spreading to Kawangware , Huruma and Kariobangi . Its followers are mostly teenagers , some still in school . " I have been here trying to understand all this mystery surrounding Gaza . To the best of my knowledge and what I have gathered , Gaza does not exist . Criminals disguised as Gaza members are the ones giving us trouble , " said Gichangi . Ndura said the gangs are a ticking time bomb and urged for concerted efforts of taming them before it is too late . " If not nipped in the bud , there will be a major revolution in the next few years . The gangs will only need one person to inspire and unify them towards the cause of hope , " observed Ndura . He will soon launch a peace caravan that will move around the city dissuading youth against crime . The 42 Brothers gang is embedded in Korogocho , Kasarani , Tassia and Soweto Bridge while Yausa 's territory is in Soweto , Tassia and Komarock . <p> Nyuki stings in Kabiru , Soko Mjinga and along Gitanga Road . Baghdad gang operates in Mathare and Ruaraka while Usiku Sacco has set base in Tassia and Mukuru Kwa Njenga . Portmore 's stronghold is around Saika and Obama . Apana Tambua ( Majengo ) , Sitaki Kujua ( Majengo ) , Kapedo ( Kangemi ) , Mgenge ( Korogocho ) , Taka Taka ( Zimmerman ) , Kamjeshi ( Maringo ) , Kamkunji Pressure Group ( Kibra ) and Taliban ( Raila village ) . Mugumoini Youth Chapter and Mzuka terrorize sprawling Kibra . Nairobi police commander Japheth Koome was none committal on whether the gangs exist . He instead reiterated criminals will not be tolerated . " We have no time to joke around with criminals , especially those terrorizing members of the public while armed . We have killed several of them and I do n't know which criminal gangs they belong to , " stated the police boss . Kaguthi pleaded with residents not to despair but continue reporting to hotline number 22068 assuring them that instant action is taken once the message or distress is received . The chairman said the city has 4,002 active Nyumba Kumi clusters . Ochieng ' expressed fear that with the General Election around the corner , some of the gangs will become bolder . " It is a complex issue that needs talking to gang members tempted into crime to poverty and idleness , " he added . 
@@61891091 <p> Incarcerated Jamaican dancehall icon Vybz Kartel is set to become a grandfather . The acclaimed musician recently broke the news that his 16-year-old son Akheel Raheim Palmer alias Likkle Addi is expecting a baby boy with his girlfriend . <p> Likkle Adi and his girlfriend appeared in a photo shared by Kartel with the caption " Congrats to me son &amp; daughter and extended family . " <p> Vybz Kartel 's name was dragged into the conversation with his lyrics in his songs " Teenage Pregnancy " and " Mhm Hm " being quoted to show he always advocated for pregnancy , no matter the age . <p> In a rejoinder soon after the pregnancy announcement , Kartel wrote " One ting me can bet my life pon me never wish bad pon a next man child ! Mi see picture a go round but If you never get lock up shut di f*** up ! " <p> Both Likkle Addi and his older brother Likkle Vybz are looking to leave a mark in the music industry after setting up Uptown Gaza ( UTG ) . <p> An old photo of Vybz Kartel with his family . Photo : Courtesy.Vybz Kartel 's family . Photo : Courtesy . <p> Murder conviction upheld <p> On April 3 2020 , a three-judge bench upheld the singer 's 2014 conviction for the murder of Clive " Lizard " Williams whose body was never found . <p> During the 64-day trial , the prosecution witness provided evidence that Kartel gave him along with the deceased two unlicensed firearms . They were later summoned to Kartel 's house and questioned after losing track of the weapons . The witness said he hid in a room in Kartels 's house and when he came out , Lizard was lying motionless on the ground . <p> All defendants maintained innocence with Kartel denying seeing the deceased at his house . 
@@85058841 <h> UN paper calls for action to avert Palestinian economic collapse ; warns against unilateral moves that can trigger conflict and instability <p> Sunday , 31 May 2020 , Jerusalem -- In a newly published paper , the United Nations argues that the COVID-19 emergency underscores the inadequacy of the frameworks governing the economic and administrative relationships between Israel and Palestine . While welcoming Israeli-Palestinian cooperation to deal with the health crisis , the UN warns that , if current trends continue , the achievements of the Palestinian Government over the last quarter century will fade , the peace and security situation will worsen , and a hardened and more extremist politics on both sides will inevitably result . <p> The paper , issued by the office of the United Nations Special Coordinator for the Middle East Peace Process ( UNSCO ) for the upcoming bi-annual meeting of the Ad Hoc Liaison Committee ( AHLC ) on 2 June 2020 , notes that any move by Israel to annex parts of the occupied West Bank or any Palestinian withdrawal from bilateral agreements would dramatically shift local dynamics and most likely trigger conflict and instability in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip . <p> United Nations Special Coordinator for the Middle East Peace Process , Nickolay Mladenov , stated " All sides must do their part in the coming weeks and months in order to preserve the prospect of a negotiated two-state resolution to the conflict , in line with relevant UN resolutions , international law and bilateral agreements " . <p> Moreover , the paper highlights the United Nations ' swift and thorough response to the COVID-19 in the Occupied Palestinian Territory ( OPT ) , undertaken in support of the Palestinian efforts . The paper noted the relatively successful prevention efforts in the OPT , however , there remain considerable concerns regarding the ability of the Palestinian health sector to cope with a surge in cases , especially in Gaza . <p> The socioeconomic impact of COVID-19 on the Palestinian people is already immense . The Palestinian Authority needs increased financial and development assistance to address its public health needs , provide essential services , and respond to the socioeconomic impact of the pandemic . The Humanitarian Country Team has also identified significant funding needs for the emergency response , and the United Nations Country Team will soon announce its development system response plan . The paper urges the donor community to mobilize in response to this unprecedented emergency . <p> Note to Editors : The Ad Hoc Liaison Committee ( AHLC ) serves as the principal policy-level coordination mechanism for development assistance to the OPT . The AHLC is chaired by Norway and co-sponsored by the EU and the US . In addition , the United Nations participates together with the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) . The AHLC seeks to promote dialogue between donors , the Palestinian Authority and the Government of Israel . 
@@85060912 <h> Attachments <p> Jerusalem , June 1 , 2020 -- An abrupt decline in economic activities and pressure on the Palestinian Authority ( PA ) ' s finances have placed Palestinian livelihoods at high risks , as the impact of the Coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) continues to hit the economy hard . After growth of a mere 1% in 2019 , the economy is projected to contract by at least 7.6% in 2020 . Beyond the immediate crisis , lifting restrictions on the development of digital infrastructure and fostering better regulations could play an important role in stimulating an already faltering economy . <p> " With the COVID-19 pandemic in its third month , the crisis is affecting Palestinian lives and livelihoods . The Palestinian Authority has acted early and decisively to save lives . However , several years of declining donor support and the limited economic instruments available have turned the ability of the government to protect livelihoods into a monumental task . Hence , external support will be critical to help grow the economy during this unprecedented period , " said Kanthan Shankar , World Bank Country Director for West Bank and Gaza . <p> The new World Bank economic monitoring report highlights critical challenges facing the Palestinian economy . The economy may shrink by at least 7.6% , based on a gradual return to normality from the containment , and by up to 11% in the case of a slower recovery or further restrictions . The PA 's fiscal situation is expected to become increasingly difficult , due to a decline in revenues and substantial increase in public spending on people 's medical , social and economic needs . Even with reallocations of some expenditures , the financing gap could increase alarmingly , from an already high $800 million in 2019 to over $1.5 billion in 2020 to adequately address these needs . <p> Even prior to the Coronavirus pandemic , more than a quarter of Palestinians lived below the poverty line . The share of poor households is now expected to increase to 30% in the West Bank and to 64% in Gaza . Even more striking is the youth unemployment rate of 38% , well beyond the Middle East &amp; North Africa 's regional average . The economy 's potential remains confined by restrictions on the movement of people and goods . The report makes a case for developing a digital economy to help bridge this divide and create high-end jobs . <p> " The digital economy can overcome geographic obstacles , foster economic growth and create better job opportunities for Palestinians . With its tech-savvy young population , the potential is huge . However , Palestinians should be able to access resources similar to those of their neighbors ' , and they should be able to rapidly develop their digital infrastructure as well , " added Shankar . <p> The report emphasizes that digital infrastructure is foundational to the development of a digital economy . At a time when other countries are contemplating the use of 5G , the Palestinian territories are among the last places in the Middle East to launch 3G in the West Bank and 2G in Gaza . The operators are at a competitive disadvantage , facing restrictions on access to spectrum , sites for network coverage and import of certain telecom equipment . They compete against operators who can offer unlicensed 4G/LTE services in the West Bank and 3G in Gaza for those in proximity to Israeli networks ( through pre-paid SIM cards ) . <p> The World Bank report recommends specific reforms to be made in collaboration with Israel , including the revival of the Joint Telecommunications Committee to resolve bilateral issues , agreeing on a timeframe for the allocation of 4G spectrum and ultimately 5G , lifting restrictions on equipment needed to introduce new technologies , and mitigating the effect of unauthorized telecom activity in the Palestinian territories . <p> It also calls on the PA to act on developing a comprehensive strategy for the sector , establishing an independent regulator and prioritizing the passing of a new telecommunications law in line with international best practice . The role of the donors is vital to provide support for the institutional development needed in the telecom sector , help with innovative financing schemes to mitigate the political risks and increase private sector investment . <p> Contacts <p> In West Bank and Gaza Mary Koussa ( 972 ) **30;904;TOOLONG 
