@@51656629 <h> You are here <h> The fury of the virus , the folly of war <p> " Our world faces a common enemy : COVID-19 , " United Nations Secretary-General Ant ? nio Guterres said on March 23 . " The virus does not care about nationality or ethnicity , faction or faith . It attacks all , relentlessly . Meanwhile , armed conflict rages on around the world ... The fury of the virus illustrates the folly of war . That is why today , I am calling for an immediate global ceasefire in all corners of the world . It is time to put armed conflict on lockdown and focus together on the true fight of our lives . " <p> Guterres ' ceasefire plea has yielded some positive results . By April 3 , he reported ceasefires in Cameroon , Central African Republic , Colombia , Libya , Burma/Myanmar , Philippines , South Sudan , Sudan , Syria , Ukraine and Yemen . Actual ceasefires are hard to document , as the so-called fog of war clouds attempts to wage peace . " To silence the guns , " he added , " we must raise the voices for peace . " <p> Guterres makes a vital point : the novel coronavirus is a common enemy , capable , as we have painfully learned , of killing huge numbers , regardless of the flag one flies . As the outbreak aboard the aircraft carrier USS Theodore Roosevelt demonstrated , even staying aboard a $5-billion nuclear naval vessel offers no protection . And COVID-19 's extreme contagiousness will certainly be on the mind of close to 1,000 West Point cadets , the newest of the U.S. army 's elite officer corps . They vacated their historic campus in March , when the army declared a public health emergency . They are now being forced back to campus in June , after President Donald Trump abruptly announced that he would be delivering the commencement address at their previously cancelled graduation ceremony . <p> Ant ? nio Guterres noted in his ceasefire plea , " The most vulnerable -- women and children , people with disabilities , the marginalized and the displaced -- pay the highest price . " <p> Refugees from conflicts across the world are often held in camps that are crowded and lack proper sanitation -- a breeding ground for COVID-19 . At a sprawling refugee camp on the island of Chios , in Greece , long described as a " hellhole , " occupants recently protested the death of an Iraqi woman there , after she suffered a fever . Camp residents believed the death was due to COVID-19 , and that she suffered , as they all do there , from dismal medical treatment . On either side of the U.S.-Mexico border , asylum seekers face the threat of infection , either in squalid camps that have sprung up in Mexican border cities as a result of the Trump administration 's " remain in Mexico " policy , or in immigration jails like the Otay Mesa Detention Center in San Diego -- a private prison run by CoreCivic -- where prisoners have been pepper sprayed and attacked by guards for demanding access to protective face masks . <p> Palestinian refugee camps in Gaza and Lebanon also suffer heightened risks of COVID-19 infection , exacerbated by many decades of systemic impoverishment , poor sanitation and the denial of access to medical care . <p> COVID-19 has prompted a look back at previous pandemics , including the 1918 flu that swept the planet , killing an estimated 50-100 million people . It may even have hastened the end of the First World War , wiping out thousands of soldiers on both sides . The illness has long been called the " Spanish flu , " a misnomer , as it almost certainly did not originate in Spain . News was censored in the warring countries of France , Britain and Germany , but not in Spain , which became the key source of European pandemic news , hence the name . An outbreak in Kansas led to infection of thousands of U.S. soldiers bound for the war in Europe , which added to the deadly flu 's global spread . <p> Much earlier in the First World War , long before the scourge of the flu , a remarkable , albeit short-lived , ceasefire occurred . On Christmas Eve 1914 , along the Western Front , German soldiers sang carols from their trenches , and soon British and French troops followed suit . By daybreak , an informal ceasefire had taken hold . Soldiers left their trenches , embracing their enemies in no man 's land , playing pickup soccer games and sharing champagne and cigarettes . <p> That pandemic , that war , and the " Christmas truce " are distant memories now . Have we learned anything ? How we confront the coronavirus as a global community will tell . UN Secretary-General Ant ? nio Guterres concluded his ceasefire call last March 23 , when the number of confirmed cases globally was " only " 300,000 -- it has since grown to over 3 million : " End the sickness of war and fight the disease that is ravaging our world . It starts by stopping the fighting everywhere . Now . " <p> Amy Goodman is the host of Democracy Now ! , a daily international TV/radio news hour airing on more than 1,300 stations . She is the co-author , with Denis Moynihan , of The Silenced Majority , a New York Times bestseller . This column originally appeared on Democracy Now ! <p> More people are reading rabble.ca than ever and unlike many news organizations , we have never put up a paywall -- at rabble we 've always believed in making our reporting and analysis free to all , while striving to make it sustainable as well . Media is n't free to produce . rabble 's total budget is likely less than what big corporate media spend on photocopying ( we kid you not ! ) and we do not have any major foundation , sponsor or angel investor . Our main supporters are people and organizations -- like you . This is why we need your help . You are what keep us sustainable . <p> rabble.ca has staked its existence on you . We live or die on community support -- your support ! We get hundreds of thousands of visitors and we believe in them . We believe in you . We believe people will put in what they can for the greater good . We call that sustainable . <p> So what is the easy answer for us ? Depend on a community of visitors who care passionately about media that amplifies the voices of people struggling for change and justice . It really is that simple . When the people who visit rabble care enough to contribute a bit then it works for everyone . <p> And so we 're asking you if you could make a donation , right now , to help us carry forward on our mission . Make a donation today . 
@@51672114 <p> St. Joseph Communications uses cookies for personalization , to customize its online advertisements , and for other purposes . Learn more or change your cookie preferences . By continuing to use our service , you agree to our use of cookies . <p> We use cookies ( why ? ) You can change cookie preferences . Continued site use signifies consent . <h> The uprising in Iran : ' This is what revolution looks like ' <p> The Iranian uprising that began last Thursday in Mashhad , Iran 's second largest city , was initially reported as an isolated protest over food prices and unemployment . By Sunday , the entire country was heaving in convulsions . Tens of thousands of people had poured into the streets of at least two dozen Iranian cities and towns , upturning police vehicles and setting government offices ablaze . The Khomeinist regime has been shaken to its foundations . Hundreds of people have been arrested . At least 12 people are dead . <p> By Monday morning , state broadcasters were reporting that security forces had prevented armed protesters from seizing military bases and police stations . President Hassan Rouhani was threatening a crackdown , but the rebellion continues . Nothing quite like it has happened since the Khomeinists seized power from the decrepit Mohammad Reza Shah , the last ruler of the Pahlavi dynasty , in 1979 . <p> Unlike the massive protests that erupted after Mahmoud Ahmedinejad came out on top in the sham presidential elections of 2009 , the unrest this time around is not largely confined to Tehran , Iran 's capital . It 's coming from everywhere . And unlike the 1999 uprising , the tumult of the past four days is not a student revolt . It 's an eruption that has arisen from the Khomeinist heartlands . Even in Qom , the Shia holy city , throngs of protesters last Friday were shouting ' Khamenei , leave the country . " Ayatollah Ali Khamenei is Iran 's doddering Supreme Leader . In Iran 's criminal code , disparaging Khamenei in that way is a crime punishable by death . <p> " I think you 're beginning to see the initial kernel of a revolution forming right now . If this thing is sustained over a period of time and the government tries to clamp down , but the numbers of protesters grow , I think at that point you 've got a revolution on your hands , " Kaveh Sharooz , a Toronto lawyer , human rights activist and former senior policy adviser to Global Affairs Canada , told me over the weekend . <p> Sharooz served as prosecutor in the " Iran Tribunal , " an ad hoc initiative that assembled jurists and international law specialists at the Hague five years ago to assemble a case against senior Khomeinist officials on charges of crimes against humanity for the murder of roughly 20,000 Iranian leftists , intellectuals and minority leaders during the 1980s . <p> " You 've got all the elements of a revolution now , " Shahrooz said . " You 've got an oppressed population rising up and demanding justice -- the wholesale discarding of a government -- and that government is clamping down . That 's what a revolution looks like . There 's no magic to it . That 's what it is , and I think we 're beginning to see the early forms of it . " <p> Another thing that makes the current revolt different from 2009 is that the mass protests back then articulated aims that were solely reformist . Brutally crushed by Khamenei 's Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps ( IRGC ) and its Basij militia , the 2009 protests revolved around charges of vote-rigging within a pantomime election process . The protesters took the lead from their failed " Green Movement " presidential candidates , Mir Hossein Mousavi and Mehdi Karroubi , both of whom are still under house arrest . <p> This time around , the uprising is leaderless , and freelance journalist Samira Mohyeddin , a prominent figure in Toronto 's Iranian diaspora , says that 's a good thing . " There is n't a single person they can go after and put under house arrest . The regime is scared , and that 's what 's really interesting . You can tell they 're afraid the red lines are gone , " she told me . " People are saying ' Death to the regime . ' They 're saying ' Death to Hezbollah . ' They 're saying ' No to Syria , No to Gaza , No to Yemen . ' Iran 's imperialist behaviour is being called into question . The chants are ' We do n't want an Islamic Republic . ' Posters of Khamenei are being burned . <p> " It 's totally unprecedented . And most of this movement is not in Tehran . It 's in the slums and in the small towns . That 's where people are feeling the disparity . This is where the movement is really happening . These are people who have nothing to lose anymore . " <p> An Iranian woman raises her fist amid the smoke of tear gas at the University of Tehran during a protest on Dec. 30 , 2017 . ( STR/AFP/Getty Images ) <p> But the most surprising thing of all , Mohyeddin said , is that so many people seem to be surprised by the sudden ruptures . " It blows my mind that people will sit here and say , ' Where is this coming from ? ' How long do you think people will take this ? How long do you expect people to take this kind of repression ? It 's going to blow . " <p> Mohyeddin said the one thing that has surprised her is that the protests have grown and gathered steam . " I have to tell you , honestly , I thought it would have died down by today , " she told me Sunday evening . " But judging from what I 'm seeing , and from what I 'm hearing from friends in London and Beirut , it 's not stopping at all . They 're in contact , and people are out right now , tonight , and they 're doing things that I ca n't even imagine , like setting a governor 's house on fire . They 're burning down some of the seminaries in Mashhad where the clerics study . If this is n't a secular movement , I do n't know what is . They 're clearly saying , we do n't want an Islamic republic , whereas in 2009 , nobody would say that . They would n't dare . " <p> " Judging by the fact that they killed those protesters , I do n't think it 's going to stop . But I want to say , no matter what the outcome of these protests , the people of Iran have already won , because no longer does this regime have any legitimacy . Zero legitimacy . Because over and over again , people have said they do n't want an Islamic republic . " <p> Shahrooz agrees that the surprise expressed by observers in western countries is peculiar , and it 's odd too that so many news reports have characterized the rebellion as an " economic " protest that became " political . " In Iran , there 's no difference . " You ca n't separate politics from economics . Bad politics leads to bad economic decision-making , which leads to poverty and all the misery you 're seeing in Iran . " <p> Besides , it 's practically impossible to protest against the Iranian regime 's handling of the economy without committing the crime of subversion , or even hirabah -- " enmity against God " -- owing to the economy being in large measure a possession of Ayatollah Khamenei 's untouchable IRGC and other entities controlled by Iran 's mullahs . Iran 's private sector constitutes about a quarter of the country 's gross domestic product . The rest of the economy is taken up by regime institutions and by the " semi-private " sector , which is dominated by the IRGC . <p> Neither should it come as any surprise that impoverished Iranians are raising slogans that directly target what Mohyeddin calls the regime 's imperialist behaviour . The IRGC 's Quds Force , listed as a terrorist entity by both Canada and the United States , takes the lead in arming and directing the forces of Bashar Assad 's regime in Syria , as well as the Lebanon-based Hezbollah terrorist group and Hamas in Gaza . <p> But the IRGC also controls most of Iran 's internet telecom bandwith , and its subsidiaries include major corporate entities in Iran 's oil and gas industry , the banking and insurance sector , and mining and construction . The IRGC owns soccer teams and hotels . The capital-flush Bonyad Taavon Sepah investment outfit is owned and run by IRGC commanders . <p> In the two years since U.S. President Barack Obama 's nuclear deal with Iran went into effect , Iran 's theocratic elites have gained access to roughly $100 billion in funds formerly frozen in escrow accounts by the UN 's nuclear-related sanctions . On top of that cash pile , the regime has already more than tripled its exports to Europe . The flooding of such enormous volumes of money into the ayatollahs ' bank accounts and the IRGC 's many budget portfolios has allowed Khamenei to shift his belligerent regional ambitions into hyperdrive . <p> Iranians have no way of subjecting corruption of this magnitude to any scrutiny . After the 2009 protests , what little remained of Iran 's independent news media was crushed . Foreign journalists were driven out of the country . The regime shut down the BBC 's Tehran bureau . Three years ago , the Washington Post 's bureau chief was arrested on espionage charges . Twitter is banned . Facebook is banned . Over the weekend , the social media platform Telegram , which boasts an Iranian client base of 40 million people -- half the country -- was shut down . <p> The working-class Iranians who flocked to the polls to re-elect Hassan Rouhani last May on the promise of political reform and jobs have been obliged to stand idly and watch as the Khomeinist ruling class has devoured the post-sanctions windfall . It 's bad enough that Barack Obama turned his back on Iran 's courageous Green Movement in 2009 in exchange for the Khomeinists ' commitment to stick around at the nuclear bargaining table . Obama then doubled down by abandoning Syria 's revolutionary democrats to Assad 's barrel bombs , the IRGC 's bombardment of Aleppo , and Vladimir Putin 's air force -- all to keep the nuclear talks on track , and all for an agreement that merely temporarily mothballs the Khomeinists ' plans to develop a nuclear weapons capability . <p> And now that Iranians are rising up again , what friends have they got ? <p> " It 's shameful that the strongest message of support so far for the Iranian people has come from Donald Trump -- somebody who himself has very little belief in liberal democracy , " Shahrooz said . " What I would have expected would be messages of support from people who do believe in liberal democracy , who do believe in the values that these protesters are fighting for . I would have expected this from the left , for one thing , and we 're not seeing that . I have n't seen messages of solidarity from labour unions or any others . Our government has been largely silent . " <p> There was only a " very tepid statement " from Global Affairs Canada , to the effect that the Iranian government should allow its citizens to peacefully protest . That 's another thing that did n't come as a surprise to either Mohyeddin or Shahrooz . <p> Sharooz himself was a longtime Liberal Party member who came within a handful of votes of winning the Liberal nomination in the suburban Toronto riding of Richmond Hill , but the contest went to the regime-friendly Majid Jowhari , who won the riding for the Liberals in the 2015 federal election . While Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland has cooled the embarrassing fervour her predecessor Stephane Dion had cultivated for re-opening diplomatic relations with Tehran , Jowhari is the fulcrum of a powerful Iranian-Canadian business lobby that is chafing to do business with the Khomeinists . <p> As for what the future holds , this is where Sharooz and Mohyeddin part ways . <p> Mohyeddin is filled with optimism , convinced that the darkness that descended upon Iran in 1979 will soon be lifted , and that the Iranian people will not allow the regime to resort to the barbarism and genocide Bashar Assad has unleashed upon the Syrian people for their impudence in demanding democracy . " The regime would never dare do what Assad did , " she said . " They just would n't dare . " <p> Sharooz said he wants to believe that , but he just ca n't . <p> " This is not going to have a happy ending . I ca n't imagine that . This is a regime that is not going to give up power without a fight . The moment that they feel their power is threatened they will unleash any violence that they can to maintain that hold on power . The ending to this story , whether it 's two years from now or five years from now , it 's going to be bloody . " 
@@51676646 <h> Palestinian students under siege <p> Riham Al-Nahhal is one of the lucky few who have left the Gaza Strip to pursue their education . But for now , university will have to wait . <p> Her original plan was to arrive in Toronto in time to attend Ryerson and pursue her graduate degree in biomedical science . Instead she was held for 26 hours at the Israel-controlled Rafah crossing , on the border between Gaza and Egypt . Riham said she arrived in Toronto on Sept. 4 , too late to join class . She will not be starting school until next semester . " We are still deciding between Ryerson and U of T , but right now she is relaxing , " said Wal . <p> Riham completed her undergrad at Al-Azhar University in Cairo , Egypt , and claims she has been trying to make it to university in Canada for a year . <p> Israel has imposed a siege on the Gaza Strip since the Hamas government took control in June 2007 . The borders have mostly been kept closed , and when they do open , only a few hundred people are allowed to leave at a time . <p> Around 670 aspiring international students in Gaza have been prevented from leaving to attend schools in foreign countries . <p> Riham 's husband , Wal Al-Nahhal , sponsored her entry into Canada with a family sponsorship visa . Without such a document , most Palestinians wishing to leave the country have to rely on patience and luck . <p> " They seem only to open the border once every three weeks , " said Wal . " It 's like collective punishment for the Palestinian people . " <p> U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice had harsh words for the Israeli government when she visited the Middle East in May of this year . " If you can not engage young people and give them a complete horizon to their expectations and to their dreams , then I do n't know that there would be any future for Palestine , " she said . Shortly after that , then-Foreign Minister and Prime Minister-elect Tzipi Livni made a few exceptions and allowed four of seven Fulbright scholars to leave the territory . <p> The current Israeli policy is to allow only " extreme humanitarian cases " to leave Gaza , according to Major Peter Lerner , a spokesperson for the Israeli Military . International students , he said , " are not people who need humanitarian aid . " <h> Stay up to date . Sign up for our weekly newsletter , sent straight to your inbox : 
@@51676987 <p> OTTAWA -- The federal government has added Mexico , Israel and six other countries to the list of so-called " safe " nations Canada has deemed unlikely to produce legitimate asylum claimants . <p> The addition Thursday , which takes effect immediately , brings to 35 the number of countries now on the list . <p> Mexican officials have been asking for the designation for some time . They hope it will be a precursor to Canada finally dropping the visa requirement it imposed on Mexican visitors in 2009 after asylum claims tripled from 2005 . Mexico had become the top source for asylum claims , many of which were ultimately found to be false . <p> The Israel designation does not include Gaza and the West Bank . <p> In a statement on its embassy 's website Thursday , the Mexican government acknowledged Canada 's move . <p> " The Government of Mexico takes note of this decision as a significant step in the implementation of Canadian immigration reform and trusts that this decision will contribute to achieving mutually satisfactory conditions for the elimination in the very near future of the visa requirement for Mexican nationals , " the statement said . <p> The new list released by Immigration Minister Jason Kenney also includes Japan , Norway , Iceland , New Zealand , Australia and Switzerland . <p> " Faster processing of asylum claims from generally safe countries is an essential feature of Canada 's new faster and fairer refugee system , " Kenney said in a statement . <p> " Our new system provides protection more quickly to genuine refugees , while removing individuals whose claims are rejected from the country faster . " <p> The first **33;1105;TOOLONG included the United States as well as a number of European Union countries , including the Czech Republic , which was also slapped with a visa in 2009 due to an overwhelming number of claimants . The country has vowed not to ratify the European Union free trade deal , negotiations for which are set to wrap up in a matter of weeks , if Canada does n't remove the visa requirement . <p> Kenney has not yet done so for either Mexico or the Czech Republic . According to his office , this will only happen once it 's clear the new system is working as expected . <p> Robert Tripes , a spokesman for the Czech embassy , said the ultimatum stands but he 's optimistic the visa exemption is forthcoming . <p> " In this case , we are confident that it is coming soon , " he said , adding the " safe " country listing is a step in the right direction . " We understand the system of the new law has to be checked . " <p> In December , Kenney said he left Mexico off the first list because the government was still assessing the country 's security situation . While fewer than one-quarter of Mexican claims are accepted as well-founded , meaning it should qualify for the list , he noted his department likes to " do a country review of the broader social conditions as a fail safe before proceeding with designation . " <p> Under the Protecting Canada 's Immigration System Act passed in June , asylum claimants from countries listed as " safe " will have their cases fast-tracked . They are entitled to a full review within 30 to 45 days compared to 60 for non-designated countries , but will have no right to appeal a negative decision to the new Refugee Appeal Division . They also wo n't be able to access an automatic stay of removal if they choose to fight the decision in Federal Court . <p> The aim is to deport illegitimate claimants faster from countries that offer state protection , are home to human rights and civil society organizations and do n't generally produce a lot of refugees . According to Citizenship and Immigration , similar accelerated asylum procedures already exist across Europe . <p> The list is largely determined based on statistics . Safe countries include those with a combined **32;1140;TOOLONG rate of 75 per cent or higher , or a withdrawal/abandonment rate of 60 per cent or higher , for asylum claims . <p> For countries that produce less than 30 claims , a " qualitative checklist " that considers whether a country has an independent judicial system , recognizes basic rights and permits the existence of civil society organizations would be used . <p> Citizenship and Immigration officials have said the quantitative review that would trigger whether a country should be on the list will be based on a rolling 12-month scale , not necessarily the last calendar year . <p> Critics , however , have raised numerous concerns about the process . <p> Amnesty International and the Canadian Council for Refugees have argued the list violates the UN Refugee Convention as denying a right to appeal is an issue of access to justice . Furthermore , it does n't diminish the fact that some countries labelled as " safe " are in fact not for some people . <p> In an interview in June , Amnesty International 's Alex Neve raised concerns about a number of countries that could , statistically speaking , make the list , including Israel given its human rights record . <p> " We 've highlighted time and time again that there is no objective way to draw that line , to come up with that list and that inevitably . . . it becomes arbitrary and subjective , " he argued . <p> Immigration lawyers have also said the 30-day time frame for a hearing is n't long enough to allow claimants to find a lawyer and make their case . <p> Meanwhile , the NDP has called the sliding scale arbitrary and the process too politicized . Immigration critic Jinny Sims has argued designation decisions should be made by an independent panel , not the minister himself . 
@@51677925 <p> Around the stove , about 30 Palestinians gather inside a big tent on top of Mount Al-Urma , east of the town of Beita in the occupied West Bank , taking a rest and preparing for the latest confrontation with Israeli soldiers and settlers . <p> Hours earlier on Monday , settlers had tried for a second time to reach the top of the mountain , but the residents of Beita , which lies south of Nablus , had quickly gathered to defend their lands . <p> Clashes erupted , during which the Israeli army opened fire , wounding two Palestinians with live ammunition and 10 others with rubber bullets . <p> I know exactly how many knees I 've hit , says Eden , who completed his service in the Israel Defense Forces as a sniper in its Golani infantry brigade six months ago . For much of the time , he was stationed along the border with the Gaza Strip . His assignment : to repel Palestinian demonstrators who approached the fence . <p> " I kept the casing of every round I fired , " he says . " I have them in my room . So I do n't have to make an estimate -- I know : 52 definite hits . " <p> They 're the best of our boys . One is a " musician from a good high school , " another a " boy scout " who majored in theater . " They 're the snipers who have shot thousands of unarmed protesters along the Gaza border fence . <p> In the Gaza Strip there are 8,000 permanently disabled young men as a result of the snipers ' actions . Some are leg amputees , and the shooters are very proud of that . None of the snipers interviewed for Hilo Glazer 's frightening story in Haaretz ( March 6 ) has any regrets . If they are feeling at all apologetic it 's because they did n't spill more blood . One was mocked in his battalion with " here comes the killer . " They all act like murderers . If their actions do n't show it -- more than 200 dead as a result of them -- then their statements prove that these young men have lost their moral compass . They are lost . They will go on to study , to have careers and to raise families -- and will never recover from their blindness . They disabled their victims physically , but their own disabilities are more severe . Their souls were completely twisted . They will never again be moral individuals . They are a danger to society . They lost their humanity , if they ever had it , on the shooting berms facing the Gaza Strip . They are the sons of our friends and the friends of our sons , the young people from the apartment across the hall . Look how they talk . <p> On the rare occasions that the Israeli authorities afford me a permit to visit Jerusalem , my mother always insists that I bring her a stack of " ka'ak al-Quds " ( ka'ak of Jerusalem ) . <p> Ka'ak is an ovular bread coated in a generous layer of sesame seeds . It is widely available across Palestine and also in Ramallah , where we live . But for most Palestinians , Jerusalem 's ka'ak is a unique delicacy . Like my mother , I also ask friends who get a chance to visit Jerusalem to bring me batches of ka'ak al-Quds - not only because it tastes particularly good , but because it carries with it a part of Jerusalem 's cultural history . <p> Are you annoyed by the anti-motorcycle barriers or speed bumps on your local bike path ? Spare a thought for Palestinian bicycle advocates . According to the UN , the Israeli occupation of the West Bank imposes 705 obstacles to the free movement of Palestinians . <p> These obstacles include military checkpoints where only those with permits can pass , a 440-mile separation barrier , and roving patrols that can turn a joyous bike ride into humiliating roadside detention . <p> A 15-year-old Palestinian was killed by Israeli army fire during clashes in the West Bank , the Palestinian Health Ministry said Wednesday . According to the ministry 's report , 16 other Palestinians were wounded , two of them gravely . The clashes erupted against the backdrop of a tour by Israeli settlers to a fortress at an archaeological site near Nablus in Area B , a zone that up 22 percent of the West Bank , and is under Palestinian Authority civilian control and Israeli security control . According to the settlers , the fortress dates back to the Hasmonean era . <p> A social media post inciting violence against Palestinians and Arabs was published every 64 seconds during the first two rounds of Israeli elections in 2019 , a new report finds . <p> According to the latest annual " Index of Racism and Incitement in Israeli Social Media , " produced by the organization 7amleh -- Arab Center for the Advancement of Social Media , 2019 saw a 14 percent increase from the previous year in violent or racist discourse against Palestinians and Arabs on Israeli social media . In 2017 , such posts were made every 71 seconds ; in 2018 , every 66 seconds . <p> Election-related incitement accounted for more than half of the increase in 2019 , the report reveals , with popular incitement running parallel to incitement by Israeli officials during the unprecedentedly long campaign season . <p> Standing at the podium in the Prime Minister 's Office in Jerusalem Saturday night , a grave-looking Benjamin Netanyahu declared Israel was in a state of emergency . The prime minister , who did not field questions from reporters , announced he would be ramming through a series of emergency directives , including the mass surveillance of Israeli citizens , as part of the fight against the coronavirus outbreak in the country . <p> The Israeli government unanimously passed in the early hours of Tuesday new emergency regulations for tracking the cellphones of coronavirus patients or those suspected of being infected , circumventing the approval of the Knesset in the process . <p> Ministers authorized the move despite the Justice Ministry 's commitment to have it go through the Israeli parliament , which did not have the time to deliberate on the matter . <p> Two days after the outbreak of the novel coronavirus in Bethlehem , Amjad Zaghir , a shoe factory owner from the Palestinian city of Hebron , realized the West Bank would soon run out of face masks . Less than three weeks later , he is now the only mask manufacturer there . <p> Zaghir 's factory , which he started overnight , now produces thousands of masks a day , and has made him a national hero for helping Palestinians protect themselves from the virus . <p> Zaghir got to work as soon as news broke of the first diagnosed cases of COVID-19 in Bethlehem . He bought a mask and began studying it , tilting it left and right . <p> Speaking on Channel 12 news on Sunday , the director general of Magen David Adom emergency medical services announced that there will be no more testing for the coronavirus in the Arab community if the criteria are n't changed . This surprising statement only intensified our fears that the number of those infected in the Arab community is far higher than what has been reported until now , but there is no information because there are no tests . <p> IN 2006 , ST . Louis-based activist and academic Mark Chmiel received a message on his answering machine from the Federal Bureau of Investigation . The FBI wanted to talk to Chmiel about trip three years ago that he and other St. Louis activists took with the International Solidarity Movement to the West Bank , in the Israeli-occupied Palestinian territories . When Chmiel 's attorney reached out to the FBI , they did not respond . <p> Chmiel later wrote that he was motivated to travel to the West Bank by Palestinians ' calls for volunteers , international organizations ' inability to deal with the occupation , and his own country 's complicity in Israel 's actions . The International Solidarity Movement , or ISM , which would be Chmiel 's vehicle , encourages international volunteers to come to the occupied territories and engage in nonviolent direct action against the occupation . During the delegation Chmiel was on , Israel soldiers opened fire on a Palestinian protest and injured one of the St. Louis activists . An aging Holocaust survivor who was also part of the delegation was subjected to a humiliating and invasive search when departing from Israel . <p> Two organizations with close ties to the Israeli government have teamed up on a federal lawsuit targeting the U.S. Campaign for Palestinian Rights ( USCPR ) , one of the leading Palestine advocacy groups in the United States . <p> The civil lawsuit , which marks an escalation of the Israeli-led campaign against global Palestinian rights activism , was filed by the Keren Kayemeth LeIsrael-Jewish National Fund ( KKL-JNF , often referred to simply as JNF ) , the quasi-public body that owns 13 percent of state land in Israel and holds significant sway within Israeli land bodies . The International Legal Forum , an Israeli legal group that has received funding from the Israeli government , is advising the JNF on the case . <p> As I sit in my house in Haifa , quarantined , like others around the world , I can not help but recall a previous experience under Israeli-imposed curfew . <p> Eighteen years ago , during March and April of 2002 , the Israeli army re-invaded the West Bank , including the city in which I was residing at the time , Ramallah . For months , we remained under lockdown as Israeli tanks , jeeps and soldiers terrorized our streets and homes . <p> We spent the days hearing about the rising death toll and worried about what the future would hold . While the initial action was met with international condemnation , soon the lockdown -- and the terror of Israel 's army -- became " normal . " Few raised their voices at Israel 's collective punishment of Palestinians and all of the accompanying land confiscations and home demolitions undertaken by the army . <p> Israeli authorities agreed on Tuesday to halt almost all demolitions of illegal Palestinian structures in the West Bank for the remainder of the coronavirus pandemic . <p> The decision was relayed to the Association for Civil Rights in Israel , which had appealed to the Civil Administration , the Defense Ministry body responsible for carrying out the demolitions . ACRI had called the practice " inhumane , " particularly in the midst of a public health crisis . <p> Israeli authorities agreed on Tuesday to halt almost all demolitions of illegal Palestinian structures in the West Bank for the remainder of the coronavirus pandemic . The decision was relayed to the Association for Civil Rights in Israel , which had appealed to the Civil Administration , the Defense Ministry body responsible for carrying out the demolitions . ACRI had called the practice " inhumane , " particularly in the midst of a public health crisis . <p> When people started to share the Facebook post " Dear world : How is the lockdown ? -- Gaza , " I felt uncomfortable . Though the posters sought to generate empathy for the 2 million Palestinians trapped in the Gaza Strip , the attempt to compare the closure that free citizens of the West are experiencing to the 13-year siege on the Strip is , at the very least , tasteless . Now that the virus has crossed the military checkpoints and 12 Palestinians have been diagnosed as infected , the distortion of this comparison is going to become tragically clear . <p> A group of radical settler youth who had been put in a military-run coronavirus quarantine facility attacked Palestinian campers and torched their cars overnight on Monday . <p> Israeli police have launched an investigation into the incident which took place in the southern West Bank , near the Dead Sea , but so far no suspects have been arrested . <p> According to an initial investigation , two Palestinians from Jenin and a third from Haifa , an Israeli citizen , set up their tent in a camping site near the quarantine compound . The settler youth approached them and asked for cigarettes , then returned to the quarantine compound . About 15 minutes later , they came back to the site and began throwing stones at the group of campers and set their two cars ablaze . <p> Defense Minister Naftali Bennett has ordered a stop to testing for COVID-19 in the Gaza Strip , Maariv reported . Previously , the IDF had said that it would conduct about 50 tests per day for Gaza residents at the military laboratory in Tzrifin . The decision to cancel testing was made after the IDF 's initiative was not approved on the government level , and Bennett was not notified of the decision due to coordination issues inside the army , Maariv said . In total , only about 100 tests were done over the course of two days . <p> It took one year , three elections and a global pandemic , but Israel finally has a new government , and this time , it is one with a broader mandate than any other in recent memory . <p> This is mostly thanks to Benny Gantz who repeatedly said that he would not join a government led by Benjamin Netanyahu , only to join a Netanyahu-led government at the third time of asking . <p> He did so under the pretext of creating an emergency government to deal with the coronavirus pandemic . But this is not a government established to deal with any emergency . This is a government with the specific brief of determining when and over what further areas of territory occupied in 1967 Israel will start applying its sovereignty . <p> It will be interesting to see where the Blue and White Party is in the polls by the time Netanyahu is supposed to leave office in eighteen months-18 of the 33 MKs elected on the Blue and White slate in the last election split off to sit in opposition , and it 's quite possible that the remnant of Blue and White which is a junior partner in the continuing Netanyahu ministry will now go into long term decline . <p> In any case , it is now a virtual certainty that Netanyahu will stay in power as long as he likes , and perhaps for life , with no progressive , pro-peace alternative anywhere close to emerging on the scene . <p> There will only be peace in the Middle East when Western powers stop interfering , Arabs and Persians accept the existence of Israel and a stronger Asia sphere serves as a balance of power . <p> NDPP wrote : <p> Israel is the result of western powers ' interference . There can and should be no acceptance of the existence of this murderous , racist apartheid settler- state and its ever increasing illegal occupation . Free Palestine . Down Israel . <p> Until recently , he sold cellphone accessories in Gaza 's markets . The restrictions introduced in response to the COVID-19 pandemic have left him without an income . <p> " I used to earn $10 per day , " Mattar , a father of seven , said . " It was too small an amount to be able to save anything . I have no money to feed my children since I have stopped working . " <p> The loss affects his sense of dignity . " You can not imagine how it feels for a father to stand helpless in front of his children , " he said . <p> Unemployment was already a major problem before the first cases of the new coronavirus were confirmed in Gaza during March . <p> The official unemployment rate in Gaza was 43 percent during the last few months of 2019 . According to the Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics , that meant more than 208,000 people were without work . <p> When Donald Trump announced his " Deal of the Century " at the White House in late January with Netanyahu at his side , many in Israel and the US dismissed it as an PR stunt to boost his election campaign . With Palestinians outright rejecting the plan and the Israeli right up in arms over potential recognition of Palestine , the plan appeared dead on arrival , and seemed to receive a death blow when Netanyahu failed to secure a right-wing majority in the last elections . Netanyahu , also facing a trial date for corruption and bribery , seemed to be out of options . 
@@51682177 <p> St. Joseph Communications uses cookies for personalization , to customize its online advertisements , and for other purposes . Learn more or change your cookie preferences . By continuing to use our service , you agree to our use of cookies . <p> We use cookies ( why ? ) You can change cookie preferences . Continued site use signifies consent . <h> Amiel : A land for peace ? Come off it . <p> In last week 's elections , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin ( Bibi ) Netanyahu won big at the expense of his allies , particularly Naftali Bennett 's religious Zionist party Bayit Yehudi . Instead of trying to steal votes from the left-wing opposition or woo undecideds with soft policies to demonstrate flexibility , Bibi made a brilliant and unexpected ruse to the right . This weakened his prospective coalition hard-liners , putting him in better shape to make a peace agreement should the Saudis and Egyptians manage to kick Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas into genuine negotiations -- something a politically weak Abbas has avoided so far . Bibi 's rhetoric and campaigning convinced Israel 's fractious right-wing parties that the election was important and must not be lost . Winning in politics is everything , nothing else counts . Policy details generally come later . <p> The election was a total defeat for U.S. President Obama , who continues his extended public hissy fit . After all , he , Barack Obama , had given Bibi the benefit of his own extraordinary insight into the Middle East -- an insight which has grown and grown ever since his wonderful Cairo speech in 2009 . That speech praised the contributions of the Middle East 's version of Islam for nearly 60 minutes while conveniently overlooking such problems as the absence of free speech and religious tolerance , the persecution of gays , the mutilation and oppression of women and the culture of public floggings and beheadings . Obama did admit that Islam had some issues with " the struggle for female rights " but so , said Obama , did America . A week after the speech , when the popular uprising in Iran began against the rigged election of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , America offered no help . <p> Bibi 's statement that there would be no Palestinian state on his watch is not news to anyone who has been watching the Arab world for the past 24 years . Bibi commits himself to nothing by saying that the empty pantomime of the past decades -- since the 1991 peace conference in Madrid -- is over . " Land for peace " was the slogan of Madrid and then Oslo and Wye River , and it was all fake . When the Arabs had that land -- the West Bank and Gaza -- they gave Israel no peace , only the 1967 war , which is how they lost the land . When Israel gave the Sinai Peninsula back to Egypt , they got a cold peace . When Israel gave back Gaza to the Palestinians , they got a terrorist Gaza heaving thousands of rockets at them . Land for peace ? Come off it . Peace can only be made when both sides want it . In fact , the Palestinians have been refusing a state since 1948 , when the UN gave them one . What has stopped the creation of a Palestinian state every time is the Arab refusal to recognize Israel as a Jewish state -- either specifically or by demanding the right of return that would eliminate Israel demographically . Netanyahu will not play that game anymore and nor should any Israeli or Western leader . <p> By now , Netanyahu should have known that you never put your inner thoughts online . Most political leaders rally troops on election day by inflaming worries about opposition turnout -- busing in Hispanic and evangelical and working-class white voters etc. -- and I ca n't see anything wrong in Bibi posting on Facebook that " the Arabs are voting in droves " but let 's get real here . Barack Obama 's crocodile tears over this " divisive rhetoric " is something coming from a U.S. President whose words have inflamed race relations in America like no other modern president . Obama 's rhetoric about the rich has revitalized the class divide . And , btw , where else in the Middle East can you say " the Jews are voting in droves " ? The Arabs have 13 seats in the Knesset , they are the third-largest party out of 10 in the Parliament . The Israeli Supreme Court has an Arab member ( Salim Joubran , who upheld the ruling against Likud for racist advertisements in 2013 elections , sat in judgment of a former Israeli president and is the chairman of the 2015 election committee ) . There are prominent Arabs in every aspect of Israeli life and while they are still not treated fairly and equally in municipal services and housing , that is improving . In Israel , Arabs can and do serve in the Israeli Defense Forces . <p> The United States is run by a President who is either naive , egomaniacal or evil . He appears to believe that " reaching out " to Iran -- which , if successful , will speed up Iran 's possession of nuclear weapons -- will be his great legacy . A more likely scenario has Bibi playing a blinder : Israel will ignore Washington and plan massive bombing of Iran 's nuclear facilities ; Egypt and Saudi Arabia will tell Iran this has their tacit support -- the Saudis are reported to have already given Israeli planes refuelling rights -- unless Iran stops its nuclear program . Egypt and Syria will tell Abbas to stop playing footsie with terrorists and get serious about peace negotiations . Iran understands that in return for stopping nuclear buildup , they will get some credit for an Israeli-Palestinian peace settlement . It 's convoluted and mad but it 's the souk , the Middle East , where nothing is as it seems . <p> Meanwhile , the West should understand -- when dealing with leaders who are moored in the Middle Ages and have nothing in common with the 21st century except some military technology -- that we can not hope for civilized solutions . Primitive , barbaric , tribal hatreds are not the only spirits in that region , and within Middle Eastern societies are intelligent , decent and civilized Muslims -- but the leitmotif that wags the tail of this dog belongs to the 12th century . The Jewish state 's dream of curing infant mortality and working alongside Arabs to turn the desert green wo n't work with ISIS , Hezbollah or Hamas . The West has lost all strength except military strength , which only goes to show that sophisticated weapons without the backing of strong values are very limited if not useless . <p> Last week , the UN 's Commission on the Status of Women named Israel as the No. 1 violator of women 's rights among its 193 members . Not Sudan , where the legal age for female marriage is 10 with no minimal age for " consensual sex . " Not Iran , where female " adultery " is punishable by stoning and so on . Western funds maintain the UN . We ought to leave it and build a new alliance based on democratic values . You ca n't have plenary sessions , co-exist or negotiate with barbarians ; you can only totally isolate or destroy them at tremendous cost . Benjamin Netanyahu knows that and deserves support rather than reflexive carping from the cheap seats . 
@@51685306 <h> Meet 7 Of The World 's Most Inspiring Mothers <h> Wherever they are , mothers will do anything for their children . At UNICEF , we witness it every day while we work to help children and their families survive and thrive . For Mother 's Day , be inspired by some of those mothers who do everything they can to keep their children safe , healthy and happy . <p> AntonioGuillem via Getty ImagesWoman breathing fresh air at sunset on the beach and raising arms <p> Wherever they are , mothers will do anything for their children . At UNICEF , we witness it every day while we work to help children and their families survive and thrive . For Mother 's Day , be inspired by some of those mothers who do everything they can to keep their children safe , healthy and happy . <p> Livey Van Wyk was 17 when she discovered that she was pregnant and HIV-positive . But she did n't give up . Livey was among the first young people who announced their HIV status during a time of much stigma and rejection . She was then enrolled in a UNICEF-supported program helping prevent mother-to-child transmission of HIV and she gave birth to a healthy baby boy , Remi , who is now 13 . After the birth , the young girl took control of her destiny and she became , at the age of 26 , the youngest mayor in Namibia . <p> " Remi is 13 years old now . He is my strength and my courage , " says Livey with pride . <p> With HIV test kits UNICEF helps prevent the passing along of this deadly virus from mother to child . <p> Neveen Barakat comforts her six-year-old daughter , Rosol , in the northern Gaza Strip . Neveen 's husband passed away in a blast that hit a UN-run school in Gaza . The blast wounded three of her children , including Rosol , and left Neveen with a permanent disability . <p> " Rosol saw a lot of things : people injured with missing hands or legs , with wounded faces and eyes , " said Neveen . " She also saw her father killed . This was shocking for her . It had serious psychological effects on her . " <p> Neveen brings three of her children to receive psychosocial support from a counsellor supported by UNICEF . <p> In South Sudan , Angelina Nyanin holds her niece who suffers from malnutrition , as a UNICEF nutrition worker feeds the baby Plumpy'Nut , a peanut-based paste for treatment of severe acute malnutrition . Angelina has five children of her own . In August 2016 , her village was attacked by armed men . Her husband was killed and her sister-in-law was taken away . Angelina is now taking care of six children by herself . <p> " Food and insecurity are our biggest worries , " she said . " Because of the fighting that is going on around us it is difficult to find food . We are forced to collect and eat water lilies from the swamp . But the children lose weight quickly . " <p> Conzuelo Flores plays with four-year-old Allizon Stefany Escobar on her lap , at home in Belize . Mrs. Flores is Allizon 's great-grandmother and primary caregiver and spends many hours interacting with the child every day . She is raising her great-granddaughter because Allizon 's mother works full time . The three live with Allizon 's aunt and cousin in a simple cinder-block house with electricity and running water but with minimal amenities . <p> " If anything happened to this girl , I would die , " Conzuelo Flores says . <p> Love and play are two of the essential foundations of children 's learning , development and well-being . <p> Giving birth to healthy twins is hard enough . Doing it in the middle of a Category Five cyclone requires a special kind of determination and bravery . Avalon went into labour just as Fiji was struck by one of the strongest storms ever recorded in the Southern Hemisphere . She survived ferocious winds , flying debris and downed power lines to make it to hospital and give birth to two healthy girls . In the aftermath of the cyclone , UNICEF gave mothers like Avalon the expert advice , supplies and support they needed to see their newborns through this tough time . <p> " I was due on March 16th and I kept joking with my family and telling them what if the babies will arrive during the cyclone . And it actually happened , " she said . <p> Maryamu was home sick when members of the Boko Haram rebel group attacked the church in her hometown in Nigeria . When she heard gunshots , she grabbed her daughter and ran . Maryamu has not seen her husband since and fears the worst . In a camp for internally displaced people in Yola , Maryamu and her one-year-old daughter , Hyaladan Yaduku , are receiving medical and school supplies and access to clean water from UNICEF . Maryamu wants to return home when it 's safe - even though she knows there is little left of her former life . <p> " There is nothing in our house . They took it all , " she said . " We had a motorcycle and many cows . It 's all gone . " <p> Alinafe is a single mother of two daughters , Desire , two , and Janet , 10 , and two sons , Kelvin , eight , and Innocent , six . They live in a shelter in Alinafe , made from the husks of maize in the Balaka District of Malawi . The mud brick house they once lived in was destroyed by bad weather . Due to drought , the field that once gave them a small regular harvest now lies dry , barren and useless , and Desire now suffers from severe acute malnutrition . Alinafe takes her regularly to the hospital where she is weighed , given a basic health check and gets therapeutic food . <p> Inspired by these courageous mothers ? You can honour your mother 's dedication and compassion with a Mother 's Day gift that gives back . Buy your mother a Survival Gift that reaches children and families around the world now . 
@@51694593 <h> Palestinians in Toronto enraged at Canada 's support for Israel 's war <p> " This is n't really a new war , it 's been going on for a long time , " says Abdel Karim , a Palestinian student studying finance at UTM . " Talk to any Palestinian here and he 'll say , ' Okay , so they dropped some bombs , in a couple weeks it 'll stop and then it will happen again . ' It 's the same thing . " <p> The sequence of events following Dec. 27 2008 when Israel launched its ongoing offensive attack against Gaza , was predictable . The Arab-Israeli conflict captured the focus of the international media . As numbers totaling the dead and wounded spewed from humanitarian agencies , calls for diplomacy from the international community went unheeded . <p> The Palestinian student community here in Toronto has come to expect this usual unfolding of events . <p> Like most third generation Palestinians living outside the territories , Abdel has spent time growing up in different countries . Born in Croatia , Abdel moved to the U.S. when he was three months old . Just six years ago , his family decided to immigrate to Canada . Despite never having set foot on Gazan soil , Abdel says , " I am Palestinian before anything . " <p> In the past , when the territories succumbed to military violence , Abdel would contact his two cousins attending Khan Younis University . Any attempt to reach them since December has been futile due to electricity cuts , making communication impossible . <p> Hamman Farah , a recent graduate of York University , has managed to maintain contact with members of his extended family in Gaza City including his grandmother , aunts , uncles , and other distant relatives . Relaying their sentiment since the attacks , he describes their fear : " They are terrified . There is a shortage of bread , and the water is dirty . They have to boil it to clean it up ... There is a constant debate whether to stay home , or go somewhere else . " <p> " My family keeps telling me , ' We are miserable here , we want to leave but we ca n't . ' They describe Gaza today as hell on earth . " <p> Hamman was born in Gaza City , and spent much of his childhood in Gaza and the United Arab Emirates before immigrating to Canada in 1991 . <p> Before the Israeli blockade made traveling to Gaza problematic , Hamman used to spend every summer there . According to him , Gazans lead a " ghetto life , " as most are poor and have little opportunity while constantly under surveillance . <p> Both Hammam and Abdel find activism to be the best means to cope with the turmoil back home . Abdel is president of the Arab Student Association at UTM and Hamman participates in fundraising and awareness raising activities with the Coalition Against Israeli Apartheid . <p> Rafeef Ziadeh , a third-generation Palestinian , activist , and PhD candidate at York University , also identifies with the cause . " Most Palestinians are born into the Palestinian struggle from a very early age , " he says . " Whether they are born in Palestine or a part of the Diaspora , the issue touches Palestinians and non-Palestenians and it is resonates especially with students . " <p> Ziadeh attests that the general sentiment of Palestinian students in Toronto is directed against the Canadian government and its decision to remain detached from the crisis while supporting Israel . Canada was the only nation on the U.N . human rights council to oppose a motion condemning Israel 's attacks . <p> At the end of the third week of the Israeli offensive on Gaza , the death toll has passed 1,000 . Israel has brought in reserve forces , pushing into more populated urban centers . Meanwhile , the Hamas rockets launched into Southern Israel and blamed for the invasion continue , casting a shadow on the success of the Israeli mission . <p> A coalition of student groups opposing the Gaza invasion will be meeting today ( Thursday ) at Sid Smith room 1073 starting at 4:00 p.m. 
@@51695211 <h> Ford government releases annual report on freedom of speech on campus <p> As part of the Ontario government 's 2018 directive that all colleges and universities must develop and report on free speech guidelines , the Higher Education Quality Council of Ontario ( HEQCO ) released its first annual report on November 4 regarding the state of free speech on campuses . It revealed that U of T did not have to make any alterations to its freedom of speech policy in order to comply with governmental regulations . <p> Background on the policy <p> Doug Ford unveiled his free speech policy requirements in August 2018 , stating that institutions found to be non-compliant with the government 's free speech requirements are at risk of losing funding . <p> The policy is based on the Chicago principles for free expression , which were outlined in a 2014 document from the University of Chicago that summarizes its commitments to freedom of expression . <p> The HEQCO was tasked with monitoring the implementation of this directive , which falls under its mandate to evaluate the postsecondary education system in Ontario . <p> The state of free speech at U of T <p> In U of T 's " Annual Freedom of Speech Report " -- which each university and college is now required to produce as part of Ford 's policy -- U of T highlighted two cornerstone free speech documents that were passed in 1992 , as well as a number of expansions to the policy framework over the years . <p> Universities were also required to note any free speech issues or complaints in their reports . U of T highlighted an event held in March 2019 at UTM where the controversial scholar , Norman Finkelstein , spoke about the Israel-Palestine conflict . Finkelstein 's lecture , which primarily argued against the right of Israeli guards in Gaza to self-defence , faced criticism and calls for cancellation both from within the university and the public . <p> In addition , U of T was the only institution to cancel an event during the January to August reporting period , when a space booking by the Canada Nationalist Party ( CNP ) was denied due to security concerns . In its report , U of T noted that CNP Leader Travis Patron had come under RCMP investigation for a hate crime earlier this year . Patron was also recently charged with assault and aggravated assault in Regina on November 2 , where two women alleged that Patron attacked them after they refused his offer of a ride . <p> The HEQCO report identified one issue in regard to compliance with the Chicago principles in Ontario . The report notes that a central feature of the Chicago principles is that free speech " takes precedence over civility and respect . " This section of the Chicago principles was not explicitly stated in the Ford government 's minimum requirements , but the HEQCO asserts that it is not evident in all of Ontario 's postsecondary institution 's free speech policies . <p> " Universities in general and U of T in particular have been pretty vigorous in defending free speech on campus ... universities were doing perfectly well protecting free speech before the Ford government initiative came along , " said Wayne Sumner , University Professor Emeritus in the Department of Philosophy , to The Varsity in an interview . <p> Sumner believes free speech initiatives are the result of " overblown " fears that right-wing speakers are being targeted on campus . However , Sumner does not believe any harm has come from this initiative , saying , " The Chicago principles are the right framework for freedom of speech on campus . " <p> A Globe and Mail article quoted James Turk , the director of the Centre for Free Expression at Ryerson University , who went further , saying , " This was all part of Ford playing to a right-wing base , suggesting that the elites in these liberal institutions need to be reined in so they respect freedom of expression . " <p> In an email to The Varsity , Ciara Byrne , a spokesperson for the Ministry of Training , Colleges and Universities wrote that " postsecondary institutions across the province are already seeing an improvement in the upholding of free speech , " despite the policy being in place for less than a year . Byrne emphasized that while the government wishes to uphold free speech , hate speech will not be tolerated . <p> AD <h> Review of sexual violence policy finds 56 reports in three years , only one tribunal <p> At the University Affairs Board ( UAB ) meeting on November 13 , in a relatively empty Governing Council chamber , the university 's sexual violence policy went through its first three-year review . The reports presented at the UAB found that from early 2017 to late 2018 , there were 56 cases reported through the Sexual Violence Prevention &amp; Support Centre ( SVPSC ) , but during that same time , only one hearing was held . <p> That hearing saw the respondent admitting to " non-consensual touching . " The respondent was sanctioned with a one-year suspension , a five-year notation on their transcript , and a one-year probationary period after the suspension , limiting contact with the survivor . <p> This review was part of the mandate of the Sexual Violence and Harassment Action Plan Act that was passed under former Ontario Premier Kathleen Wynne , which sparked the policy 's creation in the first place . U of T 's proposed revised policy clarified language , but included no substantial changes . <p> At the same meeting , the university released its numbers for non-academic offences , which included the number of tribunals held in cases where the respondent to a report of sexual violence is a student . <p> " Cases can be resolved in different ways . Where the respondent is a student , cases may be referred to a hearing under the Code of Student Conduct , but may be resolved before the hearing is conducted , " wrote Sandy Welsh , Vice-Provost , Students , in an email to The Varsity . <p> " In making a decision as to whether a matter is referred to a hearing , the wishes of students who come to the centre are always considered , " wrote Welsh . " In some cases they may not want a hearing , and would prefer the matter be resolved in another way . " <p> How we got here <p> In 2016 , the provincial legislature enacted the Sexual Violence and Harassment Action Plan Act , which , through the then-Ministry of Advanced Education and Skills Development , mandated that universities and colleges were to develop independent sexual violence and assault policies . Up until then , U of T 's policy was embedded among several other policies , including the Student Code of Conduct and the university 's Policy and Procedure on Sexual Harassment . Following calls to action from the U of T community , and part of a wider movement across North America in 2014 , the university began the process of consulting on revisions for a new policy . <p> By the time the then-bill reached royal assent in 2016 , U of T 's Policy on Sexual Violence and Sexual Harassment was undergoing consultations , with the university releasing a draft in September and a final version in November of that year . The policy was the work of years-long consultations , research , and various task force and committee recommendations -- including the development of a tri-campus SVPSC . <p> Since then <p> In 2017 , a year after its release , U of T 's policy received a " C " grade for its sexual violence policies from Our Turn , a coalition of 20 Canadian student unions . The policy was marked down for lacking mandatory sexual violence sensitivity training , not acknowledging the existence of a rape culture at the university , and not having clearly defined timelines for reports and investigations . The same year , Tamsyn Riddle , a U of T student , filed a human rights complaint against U of T and Trinity College , citing a failed 17-month sexual assault investigation in 2015 and failure of the college to enforce the interim measures imposed on her assailant . <p> Various reports were released in 2019 , reflecting the policy 's first three years : the university 's own SVPSC 2017 -- 2018 report , a report from the U of T student advocacy group for sexual assault survivors Silence is Violence , and the Ontario provincial survey on sexual violence at postsecondary institutions . <p> The SVPSC reported that 56 cases of sexual violence were filed under the university 's sexual violence policy from the office 's first two years of operation . <p> Silence is Violence , a grassroots student advocacy group , collected its own data , surveying 544 anonymous students . Of its respondents , 109 reported experiencing at least one instance of sexual violence or were uncertain whether the incident they experienced was an act of sexual violence during their time at U of T. Thirty per cent of respondents indicated that they knew someone who had experienced sexual violence on campus . <p> The provincial Student Voices on Sexual Assault survey released on March 19 reported that of 26,824 U of T respondents , 4,628 reported experiences of stalking and 12,293 reported instances of sexual harassment , including discrimination and online and physical harassment . It also found that 3,602 U of T students reported non-consensual sexual experiences , which makes up 13.42 per cent of U of T 's respondents . <p> The revised policy , with clarified language but lacking any substantive additions , will continue through the governance process , where it will ultimately be voted for approval at the December 12 meeting of Governing Council . <p> The Ministry of Training , Colleges and Universities was unable to comment at the time of publication . <p> Editor 's note ( November 18 , 6:00 pm ) : This article has been updated to clarify that the data is compiled from multiple reports . The article has also corrected that the SVPSC report is from 2017 -- 2018 , not 2018 -- 2019 . <p> AD <h> U of T to review policies after UTM student handcuffed while seeking mental health support <p> On October 2 , Natalia Espinosa , a third-year student at UTM , was handcuffed by campus police at the Health &amp; Counselling Centre ( HCC ) , as first reported by The Medium . Though she had arrived at the HCC that day to seek support for suicidal ideation , Espinosa told The Varsity in an interview that she left the HCC in police custody , and was then escorted to Credit Valley Hospital . <p> In the aftermath of the news , student groups around U of T have strongly criticized the university 's policies , further strengthening their calls for change around how the administration is handling mental health . Though the university explained that its procedures are in line with local law enforcement practices , it told The Varsity that it will be reviewing its policies in light of this event . <p> The events of October 2 <p> Espinosa described how , as a UTM student , she had always been told that she should go to the HCC in the event of a mental health crisis . Her friend and fellow U of T student , Anita Mozaffari , urged her to seek help , and Espinosa , with Mozaffari by her side , obliged and went to the HCC to request a meeting with a psychiatrist . <p> Upon arrival they were informed that the process of seeing a psychiatrist involved three steps . Espinosa would have to be seen by a mental health nurse , and then a doctor , before she 'd finally be able to discuss her health issues with a psychiatrist . This process , they were told , could take a month or more . <p> Then the HCC receptionist notified them that the mental health nurse was not in that day . Espinosa told The Varsity that she became distressed upon hearing that she may not be able to immediately receive care . As she became more and more visibly upset , the HCC receptionist reportedly allowed Espinosa in to see a regular nurse . <p> With the nurse , Espinosa developed a safety plan which involved her staying the night with Mozaffari . After the plan was approved , the nurse then told Espinosa that , per U of T protocol , she would have to call campus police to have a " 10 -- 15 minute talk " with her before she could leave . <p> Two campus police constables arrived and Espinosa told them about her prior intention to end her life , and that her plan had included a specific location . The officers then told Espinosa that because her plan included a real location , they would have to place her under arrest and transport her to a hospital . <p> " I told them that I would be more than willing to go to the hospital , " said Espinosa , and yet campus police insisted that she needed to go in handcuffs . Once the handcuffs were placed on her , Espinosa began to experience a panic attack . She recounted how her distress was met with silence from the constables : " It seemed like the police did n't know what they were doing . " In fact , it was Mozaffari who jumped in to calm her down . <p> Mozaffari described to The Varsity that the officers were ready to take Espinosa to their car , even while she was actively experiencing mental distress . " They did n't even think to stop and calm her down and care for her . " <p> Espinosa was led out of the HCC and through the Davis Building , with a jacket placed over her handcuffs . Since the police car was not ready , she had to stand in the entrance to the building and face the stares of those passing by , making her feel criminalized . <p> They would not let Mozaffari ride with Espinosa to the hospital , and while she was alone in the back of the police cruiser , Espinosa experienced another panic attack and vomited . <p> Espinosa was admitted to the hospital and her handcuffs were eventually taken off . She was able to receive care and will continue seeking support there . In light of this incident , she said that she no longer trusts the mental health services provided by U of T. <p> Mozaffari sees this event as being indicative of a larger issue at U of T. Not only does she find the handcuffing protocol to be damaging , but she was shocked that someone who was suicidal , as Espinosa was that day , was asked to wait a month or more to receive care . <p> Espinosa also believes that U of T is not doing enough to combat mental health issues on campus and is angered by the actions of campus police in this situation . In light of her treatment , she has filed an official complaint with U of T. <p> Law enforcement policy on mental health <p> In an email to The Varsity , a U of T spokesperson explained that while they can not comment on any specific case , " The safety and wellbeing of those involved is the primary consideration in any situation " for the university . U of T will be re-examining their policies in light of this incident . <p> Mark Overton , Dean of Student Affairs at UTM , further explained that not all cases in which a student is suicidal will result in campus police bringing the student to the hospital . " It 's very much on a case-by-case basis . " <p> A number of considerations go into whether or not a campus police constable decides to handcuff and transfer a student to a hospital , with one main consideration being the expression of specific intentions to harm oneself . Overton went on to clarify that handcuffs are involved in order to ensure that individuals deemed at risk are safely brought to the hospital . <p> Both Espinosa and Mozaffari agree that having a protocol that involves handcuffing students who are reaching out for mental health support will deter those who are most vulnerable from coming forward . " When you 're in such a vulnerable position , you need to be treated with dignity and respect , and you need to be treated with care , because ultimately I believe this is a health care matter . It is not a police matter , " said Mozaffari . <p> Espinosa also claimed that , " The fact that they 're using handcuffs ... is criminalizing and creating more stigma around mental health . " She further noted that she finds it unacceptable that law enforcement can act in mental health situations without health care professionals present . <p> Mental health at the intersection <p> Espinosa and Mozaffari believe that mental health is particularly pressing for those at an ' intersection , ' such as women , racialized peoples , and members of the LGBTQ+ community . <p> As a racialized woman , Mozaffari acknowledged that there are barriers to accessing mental health services for some more than others , and that police interactions can take on a radically different tone depending on your identity . " There will always be a slight fear when you 're interacting with police because statistically , they will treat you with more violence . " <p> Espinosa would like to see more services and initiatives aimed specifically at members of marginalized groups who experience mental health issues . She also wishes to see more diverse representation among those who handle people experiencing mental health crises , noting that her interaction with a female police officer that day was a much more calming experience than when she was interacting solely with male police officers . <p> After the events of October 2 , Espinosa and Mozaffari told their story to Beverly Bain , who teaches at UTM . Bain has since begun advocating on behalf of Espinosa and will soon be releasing and circulating a letter to raise awareness of what happened to her . <p> Bain spoke with The Varsity to discuss the issues at hand . <p> Bain believes that for racialized women such as Espinosa , there is a greater vulnerability inherent in reaching out for mental health support . " It exposes them , it also puts them in a situation where they feel that their agency is denied ... When they try to assert agency and voice their needs can easily be put in a situation where they can be put in danger by those law enforcement individuals . " <p> Bain sees the reason for this being that " women are not supposed to speak up , they are not supposed to say no , they 're not supposed to challenge authority . " <p> Community responses <p> In response to the events of October 2 , the UTMSU released a statement condemning the actions of the police constables who put Espinosa in handcuffs and the policies that allowed this to unfold . " These actions taken by the HCC and the police are shameful and further the intimidation and discrimination that students face on our campus when accessing mental health services . " The University of Toronto Students ' Union ( UTSU ) , the Association of Part Time Undergraduate Students , and the U of T Students ' Law Society all announced their support for the statement . <p> A petition has also been released calling for the university to publicly apologize for handcuffing Espinosa and to improve mental health services on campus . As of publishing time , the petition has over 130 signatures . <p> If you or someone you know is in distress , you can call : <p> Canada Suicide Prevention Service phone available 24/7 at 1-833-456-4566 <p> U of T is one of the many colleges and universities in Ontario that , according to a recent survey by the Toronto Star and the St. Catharine 's Standard , are experiencing a boom in international student enrollment . Accompanied by increasing international student tuition costs , this suggests that these universities may see international tuition fees as a viable replacement for government funding . <p> While the university is currently encountering financial pressures from decreased provincial funding , these growths corroborate earlier estimations made by The Varsity that the university would use international tuition to replace funding lost as a result of the Ford government 's new policies . <p> The investigation found that international student enrollment in Canada has increased by 73 per cent since 2014 , partially due to new laws that make it easier for non-Canadian students to work and attain permanent resident status . U of T alone has seen an increase in international student enrollment from 10 per cent of the total student body in 2008 -- 2009 to 24 per cent in 2019 -- 2020 . <p> For many schools , international students are a lucrative alternative to provincial grants -- the demographic brought in $21.6 billion to the Canadian economy in the last year alone , reported the Star . <p> While domestic fees are government regulated , international tuition fees are unregulated and decided by the university . For the 2019 -- 2020 academic year , 87 per cent of U of T 's operating revenues will come from tuition , other student fees , and provincial operating grants -- with the proportion from provincial grants declining . <p> In response to the higher tuition fees for international students , the U of T spokesperson wrote , " universities do n't receive provincial funding for international students as we do for Canadian students . Canadian students and their families pay taxes that flow back to universities and colleges , so we ask international students to pay their share . " <p> The three-part investigation from the Star and the Standard offered a few suggestions to prevent universities from taking advantage of international students . Among them being increased provincial operating grants and government support for incoming international students -- or that schools could offer training to staff , better language support , and more robust support services . <p> U of T plans to continue to invest in academic and co-curricular programming , counselling , and support services for international students , according to the U of T spokesperson , who also mentioned other services that the university provides to international students , " such as language assistance , additional orientation and advisors to help them learn everything from navigating the TTC to understanding U of T 's academic culture and expectations . " <p> " International students benefit from studying at the University of Toronto and we benefit from their presence , " wrote the spokesperson . " International students enrich our community with their experiences , fostering a vibrant exchange of perspectives and opinions and helping us build relationships around the world . " <p> As the months-long protests in Hong Kong show no signs of slowing down , U of T students have continued to bring the protests to Toronto . Pro-Hong Kong students set up a Lennon Wall on the UTSG campus and organized a 48-hour hunger strike , though the strike ended prematurely due to worsening weather conditions at the recommendation of first-aid volunteers on site . <p> The protests in Hong Kong , ongoing since June , were sparked by an extradition bill which would have allowed for detainees in Hong Kong to be extradited to mainland China . The bill has since been withdrawn , though the protests have continued and grown in scope , now encompassing greater demands for full democracy and freedoms . <p> As the protests continue , violence has escalated as demands by protestors have expanded -- universities in Hong Kong have become grounds for petrol bombs and tear gas as protestors and police clash amidst heightened protests against police brutality and calls for full democratic elections . <p> Lennon Wall <p> The U of T Hong Kong Extradition Law Awareness Group ( UTHKELAG ) put up a Lennon Wall outside of the University of Toronto Students ' Union ( UTSU ) building on the night of November 5 , as a forum for expressing pro-Hong Kong sentiments . Lennon Walls , which are collaborative mosaic walls that originated in Prague during the 1980s , have been a part of the anti-extradition law protests in Hong Kong over the past few months . <p> The U of T Lennon Wall features over a hundred coloured sticky notes on which students have written messages such as " Free Hong Kong , " and " Democracy Now ! " In the middle of the wall is a memorial to Alex Chow Tsz-Lok , a student at the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology who died on November 8 after falling off a parking garage during a police raid days earlier . <p> Chow was reportedly attempting to escape tear gas when he fell , though the exact circumstances surrounding his death remain unclear . His death has further fuelled global protests , and it has been cited as one of the only deaths linked directly to police interference . <p> " Lennon Walls have popped up around Hong Kong mostly as sites for expression of views , largely pro-democracy , in favor of the protests and our objectives , " said Milton Chow , a fourth-year student at U of T and a member of UTHKELAG . <p> He said that the purpose of the wall is " to allow the U of T community to see that what 's going on in Hong Kong matters to our Hong Kong student community right now , especially since Toronto is home to one of the largest Hong Kong diasporas anywhere in the world . " <p> Milton explained that the group hopes to keep the wall up for " as long as we possibly can , " to show the spirit of their activism . <p> " It 's pretty clear that it is named after former Beatles frontman , John Lennon , " said Milton . " But , in large part it revolves around his messages of peaceful yet radical change , and moving toward greater freedom and democracy for all . " <p> Michael Junior Samakayi , UTSU 's Vice-President , Equity , said that the UTSU 's decision to allow the wall on their building was a show of solidarity with the people of Hong Kong : " If we 're not standing up for them , then what are we really doing as a student union ? " <p> Hunger strike <p> This weekend , the student protestors set up chairs , posters , and a tent outside of Old City Hall as they attempted to wait out a 48-hour hunger strike from 10:00 am on November 16 to 10:00 am on November 18 . However , 12 hours in , the strike ended early due to safety concerns regarding the cold weather . <p> Marco So , a first-year student from Hong Kong at the strike , described the current wave of protests as " maybe the last fight for the democracy of the Hong Kong people . " He called the hunger strike " a way of self-sacrificing , " and cited his own reason for getting involved in the strike as not having participated in Hong Kong protests before : " And I feel a little bit of regret about that . " <p> Man Kin Sum , an exchange student at U of T from the Chinese University of Hong Kong participating in the strike , said he was motivated by the recent violence at his home university , where students and police clashed in an hours-long skirmish . <p> " In the past few days , Hong Kong police tried to get into our school , and there are like a thousand cans of tear gas and they tried to use a water cannon and even rubber bullets to attack students , " said Sum . <p> Hogan Lam , one of the organizers of UTHKELAG , said that the purpose of the hunger strike was to show solidarity with Hong Kong and to get the attention of U of T and Canada . <p> Due to the nature of the attack at a university , Lam said , " I feel like U of T , as one of the biggest educational institutions in the world , they really have to say something or at least make a stand . " <p> On November 13 , the Governing Council 's University Affairs Board passed its yearly review of the university-mandated leave of absence policy ( UMLAP ) , its three-year review of the Policy on Sexual Violence and Sexual Harassment , and the university 's report on non-academic disciplinary cases . The report on the UMLAP revealed that out of eight cases in the past year , two students requested a review of the decision to use the policy on them , though the university ultimately upheld its original decisions . <p> Student Choice Initiative <p> Vice-Provost , Students Sandy Welsh led most of the meeting , giving reports on the various policies up for review and on the Student Choice Initiative ( SCI ) -- the province 's mandate for universities to create an opt-out option for some incidental fees . The winter opt-out period for students -- running from November 1 to January 20 -- has already begun , Welsh announced at the meeting . <p> Welsh attributes its lengthy time-frame , weeks longer than the summer opt-out period , to the deadline for adding and dropping classes , and its effect on a student 's full-time or part-time status . The vice-provost also announced that between the last fall collection period and this past one , there was a two per cent reduction in incidental fees collected through the university due to the SCI . <p> Welsh reported that the policy had been used in eight cases in the past year , emphasizing that it was only used as a last resort . Two of the student cases took voluntary leave from the school . Of the remaining six , two students requested a review of the policy 's implementation . For both , the policy was sustained , with one student requesting a tribunal , withdrawing the case before the hearing , according to Welsh . <p> Following her report , Welsh addressed concerns raised about the policy . Specifically , some worry of a broader deterring effect that the policy might have on students in seeking help from mental health resources within the university . Welsh , again , emphasized the extreme and serious nature of the cases on which the policy was enacted , which included risk of harm to others . She further pointed out that any request to invoke the policy needed to be made by a divisional head . <p> Sexual violence policy updates , non-academic discipline report <p> During Welsh 's presentation of the revisions for the Policy on Sexual Violence and Sexual Harassment in its first three-year review , she lamented the Ontario government-imposed deadline for the report , which tightened the timeline for consultations , after winter exams had already began . Changes were also passed to the Code of Student Conduct to reflect the jurisdictional divide between the two policies . <p> Finally , Welsh presented the university 's annual report on cases of non-academic discipline : the governance document details specific counts of incidents . Among 12 cases there were 17 offences : 10 offences against persons , four offences of unauthorized use of university equipment , one offence against property , one abetting offence , and one offence of disruption . <p> AD <h> Remembrance Day service marks 100th anniversary of Soldiers ' Tower <p> Flying Officer Edwards of Victoria College remembered as first RCAF pilot to lose life in combat <p> Amidst heavy snowfall and below-freezing temperatures , more than a hundred people gathered at the foot of Soldiers ' Tower to take part in U of T 's Service of Remembrance . This year 's service marks the 100th anniversary of the laying of the first cornerstone of Soldiers ' Tower . <p> The Soldiers ' Tower Committee has been holding Remembrance Day services since 1924 , when the tower was officially unveiled . In her opening remarks , Michelle Alfano , Chair of the Soldiers ' Tower Committee , said " to those who served and all their families , we see you , we acknowledge the courage of your actions , and as long as the Tower stands , we will honour and remember your sacrifices . " <p> While the ceremony honours the 16,000 U of T community members who served during World War I , World War II , and other military conflicts , this year , tribute was paid to one serviceperson in particular . <p> Flying Officer Robert Lesley Edwards is remembered not only for being a part of the No. 1 Squadron Royal Canadian Air Force ( RCAF ) , but also as a BA graduate from Victoria College who resided in Burwash Hall . Edwards was killed during the Battle of Britain on August 26 , 1940 . He was the first RCAF member to lose his life in the service of his country . <p> St. Michael 's College student , Master Corporal Isaiah Samson of the 32 Service Battalion read a brief description of events during the Battle of Britain . Two days after the German air force launched an aerial assault on London , an Allied patrol engaged German bomber planes , known as Dornier 215s . <p> " Flying Officer Robert Lesley Edwards of Cobourg , Ontario , opened fire at very close range and shot the tail off a bomber but his aircraft was hit by heavy crossfire from the enemy gunners , and it followed the Dornier to earth . " At 28 years old , Edwards left behind a mother and a wife . <p> Memorial prayers were given throughout the service , first by Rabbi Julia Appel who recited El Ma'alei Rahamim , and then by Imam Yasin Dwyer of the Muslim Chaplaincy of Toronto . The service came to an end with Major The Reverend Richard Ruggle 's prayer of remembrance , followed by the playing of the Last Post and a two minute silence . <p> " In Flanders Fields , " the iconic Canadian poem , was also recited during the service . The author of the poem and Lieutenant-Colonel John McCrae was a U of T alum who served in combat , graduating from the Faculty of Medicine as a member of the Zeta Psi Fraternity . His poem was read by a fellow Zeta Psi Fraternity member , Second Lieutenant Tom Ellard . <p> In an interview with The Varsity , Ellard spoke about his own experiences as a serviceperson . Reflecting on loss and sacrifice , he recounted how a fellow soldier and friend lost his life in Afghanistan . He said that was the moment " it really came home that what we do is dangerous , and people do pay a price . " <p> When asked about the ceremony , Ellard expressed how proud he was with the student body for continuing the legacy of honouring Canada 's servicepeople . " There 's a lot of people that arrived to stand in the snow and inclement weather , because I think there 's a recognition that both their grandparents , their brothers or sisters , or they themselves might be called upon to do something similar . " <p> " That 's an important commitment , this freedom we enjoy is n't free . There are prices to be paid and sometimes it 's the ultimate sacrifice . " <p> Members of the U of T community , along with overseas visitors , laid wreaths beside Soldiers ' Tower during the service . President Meric Gertler , Vice-President and Provost Cheryl Regehr , Chancellor Rose Patten , and Chair of the Governing Council Claire Kennedy laid the wreath for the university . <p> Federal MP and Minister of Foreign Affairs Chrystia Freeland , MPP Jessica Bell , and City Councillor Mike Layton , all elected representatives for University -- Rosedale , laid the wreath for the government . The Honourable Kevin Rudd , former Prime Minister of Australia , was also in attendance and laid the wreath for the Commonwealth . <p> AD <h> Public Editor : How can journalists ethically report on a student 's death ? <p> Experts say reporting can cause contagion ; where does The Varsity stand on principled journalism in these cases ? <p> Some journalistic practices , such as including details about suicide or adding the word " suicide " in headlines , can potentially make suicide contagious , according to a study published by the Canadian Medical Association Journal ( CMAJ ) . <p> The study identified significant associations between elements of media reports and suicide deaths . It touched on how reporting on suicide can have a meaningful impact on suicide deaths . In short , it says that journalists and media outlets should carefully consider the specific content of articles before publication . <p> Following the death by suicide of a University of Toronto student at UTSG more than a month ago , the question of whether The Varsity does a good enough job reporting on suicide is something worth looking into . <p> For the most part , The Varsity has noticeably taken steps to ensure that its readers are properly being walked through sensitive storytelling . For example , every story pertaining to the topic of suicide begins with an advisory message , such as " Content warning : discussions of suicide . " <p> It 's a popular belief in many newsrooms that one should only report on suicide if there is some overriding public interest in doing so , an example of this is the Toronto Star 's policy on the matter . <p> In our case , reporting on a student 's death can be of public interest , seeing as this was the third death by suicide of a U of T student in the span ofover 16 months , and students across all three campuses have been demanding better access to mental health support for some time now . <p> In an interview with Time , Dr. Ayal Schaffer , a psychiatry professor at U of T who co-authored the CMAJ study , said that reporting on suicide is not the problem , rather it 's how it 's being done where the trouble lies . <p> " Our goal is not to blame journalists ; it 's not to tell journalists how to do their jobs . But it is to provide a pretty strong research base to support specific guidelines about how reporting on suicide should be done , " Schaffer said in the interview . <p> Time noted that the research analyzed stories published between 2011 and 2014 on the topic of suicide that appeared in 13 publications with wide circulations in Toronto . It found nearly 17,000 stories that mentioned suicide , including 6,367 articles where suicide was the major focus . It is worth noting that about 950 people in Toronto reportedly died by suicide during this timespan . <p> When searching for how many stories The Varsity has written with the word " suicide " mentioned , there were over 500 results . To some , this is a large number of stories circulating around suicide , and to others -- given that The Varsity has written countless stories over the years -- it is an insignificant number . <p> According to Josie Kao , Editor-in-Chief of The Varsity , she found herself , like many journalists , covering an " alarming number of deaths on campus " when she was acting as News Editor last year . Kao then decided that The Varsity needed a responsible guide on reporting on suicide . <p> " We know that we have a huge responsibility as a media organization to prevent contagion and at the same time de-stigmatize mental illness , " Kao wrote . <p> These guidelines included which terms to use when reporting on suicide , as well as in the event that a death occurs on campus in a public place , on campus in a private place , or off campus . <p> " Not all situations warrant reporting on ... because the risk of suicide contagion is so high . I 'm extremely proud of the work that the paper has undertaken since I began working here , and I truly believe that student journalism is at the forefront of responsible reporting on suicide , " Kao added . <p> It 's important to ask how students on all three campuses at U of T feel about upsetting stories that are told every day . Does it make them feel informed about what is going on on campus and equip them with all the information needed to confront the school and demand change ? <p> Or does it instead make them feel scared that someone who walked the same halls , sat in the same lecture hall , ate at the same cafeteria , wrote the same exams , might one day want to end their life ? Or what if they themselves feel that they can also take their life because others are doing so ? <p> I would like to know how readers feel about this topic and where they stand , reading the tragic circumstances surrounding one of their own . <p> As your newest public editor , I want to make it my mission to look at both sides of the reader 's perspective so that we can work together in creating an educational , yet safe , environment for all . 
@@51697875 <h> Refugee crisis deserves more attention <p> Venezuelan migrants wanting to return to their country due to the COVID-19 pandemic wait in Cali , Colombia , for a chance to get into a bus that will take them to the border on May 12 . ( Luis Robayo/Getty Images ) <p> The current preoccupation of our media with the COVID-19 outbreak has left us singularly ill-informed about many other major stories on the world scene . A few examples will serve to illustrate the point . <p> How is the political and economic confrontation between the United States and Iran unfolding ? What is happening in the military confrontation between Russia and Turkey in northern Syria ? How is Venezuela coping with having rival claimants to the presidency ? How are Brazil and Argentina dealing with their imminent economic meltdowns ? How , if at all , are peace negotiations progressing in Afghanistan ? These and a host of other significant stories have virtually disappeared from our newspapers and newscasts . <p> One that certainly deserves more attention than it has been getting is the refugee crisis affecting people and countries around the globe . The simple fact is that the world is now confronted with the largest population of refugees than at any time since the end of the Second World War . And the situation seems to be getting steadily worse year after year . <p> Many of today 's refugees are not of recent vintage but the product of long-ago struggles . The creation of the State of Israel in 1948 led hundreds of thousands of Palestinians to flee to neighbouring countries , where they and their descendants remain to this day . Another outflow of Palestinians occurred at the time of the Six-Day War in 1967 . Together they make up the largest refugee community in the world . Some two million of them are packed into the relatively small area of the Gaza Strip , one of the most densely populated regions on earth and ideally suited for the spread of disease . The medical facilities of Gaza have repeatedly been targeted by the Israeli air force , and the people must now rely on primitive hospitals and clinics for their survival . The Palestinians were dealt another severe blow last year when U.S. President Donald Trump decided to terminate American funding for the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine . In doing the bidding of Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu , Trump has put yet more Palestinian lives at risk . <p> Another historic refugee flow is that of the Tibetans who fled their country when it was invaded and occupied by China in 1950 . Several tens of thousands of Tibetans found refuge in the Darjeeling region of northeast India . There they live to this day along with their spiritual leader , the Dalai Lama . Although the latter has repeatedly made clear that his sole political objective is autonomy for Tibet within the Chinese state , the Chinese government castigate him as a dangerous separatist who threatens the national unity of China . The presence of the Dalai Lama in India is the source of endless disputes between the governments of China and India , and there is no prospect that the Tibetan refugees will be allowed to return home in the foreseeable future . <p> Another historic case , but of somewhat more recent years , is the plight of Afghan refugees . When the Soviet Union invaded and occupied Afghanistan in late 1979 , some five million Afghans fled the ensuing violence . They found refuge primarily in Pakistan and to a lesser extent in Iran . Neither of these countries was particularly keen on welcoming them . They represented a burden on their strained economic revenues and caused a certain amount of social unrest among the native population . When the Soviet Union withdrew from Afghanistan in 1988 , some refugees returned home , but the vast majority stayed put , fearing the violent civil war then gripping their country . The Afghan refugees continue to live a fairly miserable existence with a minimum amount of support from international agencies . And they are facing more and more hostility from the Pakistani and Iranian governments that are now both confronted with economic crises . <p> Then there is the situation in Africa , which is home to a large number of refugee flows . Hundreds of thousands of people have fled civil wars in the Democratic Republic of Congo , Rwanda and Burundi . They have found refuge in each other 's territories and are the source of political turmoil in all three countries . There are the refugees from the breakdown of the state in Somalia , where intense levels of violence have forced people to cross the border into Kenya , where they live in vast tent encampments . And there are those who fled the civil wars in Sudan and South Sudan to find refuge in Chad and in the Central African Republic . Finally , there are hundreds of thousands of West Africans stranded in northern Libya waiting for an opportunity to migrate to western Europe . None of the host countries are able to support these new arrivals , who are entirely dependent on the help of the United Nations High Commission for Refugees and the World Food Programme , thankfully two of the UN 's best run and most effective agencies . <p> The civil war in Syria , now in its ninth year , has produced an appalling list of victims . Some 500,000 people have been killed , some five million have fled the country and millions more are internally displaced . The Syrian refugees have found shelter primarily in Jordan , Lebanon and Turkey . None of these countries have the financial means to support these people , who are again dependent on the UNHCR and the WFP for shelter , food and clothing . In Turkey , there are nearly three million Syrian refugees who have become pawns in that country 's often contentious relationship with the European Union . The EU has provided Turkey with $6 billion in aid in exchange for a promise to block the onward movement of the refugees to Europe . Turkey is now demanding more money and is threatening to allow tens of thousands of Syrians to make their way to Europe 's shores if it does not receive it . This is causing panic in countries such as Greece and Italy , which are already submerged by refugees from the Middle East and North Africa . <p> There are now two distinct refugee flows in Latin America . Tens of thousands of people have crossed Mexico in the direction of the American border in order to escape the murderous gang wars now afflicting Guatemala , Honduras and El Salvador . There are people genuinely afraid for their lives and those of their children . They have , however , encountered nothing but hostility from the Trump administration . Those who manage to make their way across the border are incarcerated in often inhumane conditions , including the separation of children from their parents . The wealthiest and most powerful nation on earth could certainly do better by these miserable refugees . The second flow in Latin America is that produced by the policies and politics of Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro . Brutally clinging to power in the face of shortages of food and medicine , and massive popular demonstrations , Maduro has forced hundreds of thousands of his countrymen to flee to neighbouring Colombia , where most of them are now destitute . <p> The most recent mass outflow of refugees occurred in Southeast Asia in 2017 . Some one million Rohingya Muslims fled their country in the face of a campaign of murder , rape and arson mounted against them by the security forces of Myanmar , formerly Burma . What the UN has deemed to be an exercise in ethnic cleansing has resulted in these people being forced into makeshift camps in neighbouring Bangladesh . Now Bangladesh is one of the poorest and most densely populated countries in Asia and it can ill afford to suddenly accommodate a million newcomers . Thus despite the aid provided by international agencies , the Rohingya refugees are left in appalling conditions , the victims of flood rains , food shortages and disease . <p> The sheer number of refugees in the world , and the conditions under which most of them are obliged to live , represent a humanitarian tragedy of unprecedented proportions in modern times . Their plight deserves as much attention and solicitude as that being paid to the victims of COVID-19 , most of whom will recover to lead healthy , happy and productive lives , which is certainly more than can be said for the millions of refugees ! <p> Louis A. Delvoie is a retired Canadian diplomat who served abroad as an ambassador and high commissioner . 
@@51703600 <h> For Palestinians in Lebanon , 69 years of despair <p> SIDON , Lebanon -- Ahmad Dawoud recalls the day 10 years ago when a Lebanese soldier asked to search his taxi . Then 17 , the Palestinian did n't wait for the soldier to find the weapons hidden in the trunk . <p> He jumped from the car and fled into the nearby Palestinian refugee camp , where the Lebanese army has no authority . <p> But it was not long afterward that Dawoud , who once admired the radical groups that have sprouted in the camps in Lebanon , decided he was tired of running . That same year , in 2007 , he surrendered to authorities and spent 14 hard months in jail . <p> Although he was released without a conviction , he could n't erase the biggest strike against him : As a Palestinian in Lebanon , he is a stateless , second-class resident in the only country where he 's ever lived . <p> On Monday , Palestinians mark 69 years since hundreds of thousands of them were forced from their homes during the 1948 war that led to the creation of Israel . Many settled in the neighbouring West Bank , Gaza , Jordan , Syria and Lebanon . <p> As refugees , various U.N . charters entitle them and their descendants to the right to work and a dignified living until they can return to their homes or such settlement is reached . <p> But Palestinians in Lebanon suffer discrimination in nearly every aspect of daily life , feeding a desperation that is tearing their community apart . <p> Many live in settlements officially recognized as refugee camps but better described as concrete ghettos ringed by checkpoints and , in some cases , blast walls and barbed wire . The U.N . runs schools and subsidizes health care inside . <p> In Lebanon , there are 450,000 refugees registered in 12 camps , where Lebanese authorities have no jurisdiction inside . <p> " Our lot is less than zero , " Dawoud said in a recent interview outside Ein el-Hilweh , the crowded camp in Sidon that is one of the most volatile . <p> On peaceful days , children play in the damp alleys and merchants park their carts of produce along the camp 's main streets . <p> But the place feels hopelessly divided along factional and militant lines , and it frequently breaks down into fighting between Palestinian security forces and militants or gangs that capitalize on the general despair . <p> Last month , 10 people were killed in a flare-up that drove out thousands of the camp 's estimated population of 75,000 . <p> Palestinians are prohibited from working in most professions , from medicine to transportation . Because of restrictions on ownership , what little property they have is bought under Lebanese names , leaving them vulnerable to embezzlement and expropriation . <p> They pay into Lebanon 's social security fund but receive no benefits . Medical costs are crippling . And they have little hope for remediation from the Lebanese courts . <p> Doctors are prohibited from working in the Lebanese market , so they find work only in the camps or agree to work for Lebanese clinics off the books , and sign prescriptions under Lebanese doctors ' names . That leaves them open to employer abuse , a condition normally associated with low-skill work . <p> " If a young boy gets in trouble because he is Palestinian , the prosecutor writes in his note to the judge , ' He is Palestinian , ' meaning : ' Do what you wish to him . Be cruel to him . Forget about his rights , ' " said Sheikh Mohammad Muwad , a Palestinian imam in Sidon . <p> The crush of war refugees from Syria has made it even harder for Palestinians here to find work . Nearly six in 10 under age 25 are unemployed , according to the U.N . ' s Palestinian relief agency UNRWA , and two-thirds of all Palestinians here live below the poverty line . <p> UNRWA country director Claudio Cordone said they feel trapped in political limbo and see an " almost total lack of meaningful political prospects of a solution " to their original displacement from Palestine . <p> Lebanese politicians say that assimilating Palestinians into society would undermine their right to return . But Palestinians say they are not asking for assimilation or nationality , just civil rights . <p> " They starve us , so we go back to Palestine . They deprive us , so that we go back to Palestine . Well , go ahead , send us back to Palestine ! Let us go to the border , and we will march back into Palestine , no matter how many martyrs we must give , " Muwad said . <p> For those in the camps , the line between hustling and criminality is often blurred . Unemployed and feeling abandoned by the authorities , many turn to gangs for work . <p> Adding to this is a widely shared disaffection with the Palestine Liberation Organization , which many Palestinians now see as having sold out their rights with the failed Oslo Accords of 1994 . <p> This has helped fuel the rise of radical Islam -- a shift in the occupied Palestinian territories that is reflected by Hamas ' rising popularity , and one outside the territories in the meteoric trajectory of militant groups such as Fatah al-Islam in the volatile and deprived Nahr al-Bared camp . <p> Growing up in Nahr al-Bared , a camp much like Ein el-Hilweh , Dawoud felt a strong affiliation for Fatah al-Islam , his gateway to radical extremism . <p> " They were the only ones who seemed honest , " he said . " Of course , later I figured out they were just like everyone else , too . " <p> In 2007 , the Lebanese army razed most of Nahr al-Bared to crush Fatah al-Islam . <p> By that time , Dawoud already was in Ein el-Hilweh , and his arrest was the beginning of a slow falling out with the gangs that once sheltered him and treated him like a brother . After his stint in prison , they began to feel they could n't trust him , and he was chased out of Ein el-Hilweh in 2013 . Now , he can only enter the parts of the settlement firmly under PLO control . <p> With no job , no prospects and little wealth , Dawoud now runs errands for others in his white 1980s-era BMW -- all done under the table , of course . Palestinians can not apply for the red license plates that identify taxis and other commercial vehicles . <p> " I do n't even think about marrying and getting into those situations , " he said , waving off starting a family at age 27 . His ambition now is to apply for a visa to leave Lebanon . But first he needs a travel document , and for that he needs to be on good terms with the Lebanese authorities . <p> Not all Palestinians live in camps , but even the most privileged among them endure discrimination . <p> At a panel on Palestinian labour rights at the American University of Beirut , Muhammad Hussein asked a Lebanese Labor Ministry official why he was denied work even in sectors that are formally open to Palestinian employment . <p> The 22-year-old graduate showed the official an email he received from a marketing firm in Dubai refusing his job application on the grounds that the Lebanese office had to give priority to Lebanese workers . <p> The Government of Canada is making funding available to organizations working with Indigenous people living in urban areas.Prime Minister Justin Trudeau announced the federal government will contribute $75 million to a variety of groups including friendship centres . Janet Carrier , executive director with the Prince Alb ... <p> Sgt. Conrad Logan said over the last four days , RCMP received information about people bringing back an excessive amount of beverage alcohol which includes rye , whisky , rum , flavoured coolers and beer . RCMP came up with a plan and patrolled and checked traffic coming into the community . He said in his 20 years of RCMP ... <p> Separate locations for participants of council meetings is proving to be another barrier to communication for an already divided Prince Albert city council . Since last month some councillors have been in the chambers while others have been on phone lines , based on protocols around a ten-person gathering limit in a room ... 
@@51706693 <h> George Galloway speaks to rabble.ca <p> British MP George Galloway was banned from entry to Canada in March 2009 . Galloway and supporters have taken Minister of Citizenship and Immigration , Jason Kenney , to court in an attempt to overturn the ban . Canadian Federal Court heard the case this week in Toronto . On Wednesday , April 28 , Galloway set aside some time from campaigning in the UK elections to speak to rabble editor Cathryn Atkinson . <p> Cathryn Atkinson : How are you feeling about the hearing ? <p> George Galloway : I 've been confident all along that Canada remains a country governed by law , rather than the capricious whim of here-today-gone-tomorrow politicians . I was always confident and still am confident that the court will grant permission because really all we 're asking is to have a say . <p> People do n't have to agree with it , and many will not . But the Canadian people have a right to hear , and hear not down a crackling telephone line but face-to-face , where they can ask questions and engage in the debate . <p> It 's unbecoming of a country like Canada to ban a fellow commonwealth parliamentarian elected for almost 25 years , five consecutive terms , and a man who can travel in and out of the United States , sometimes on a weekly basis . To say that such a person is a terrorist is deeply insulting to the intelligence of the Canadian people . <p> CA : You 're in the middle of the U.K. election , and you are raising funds for your charity , the Viva Palestina aid convoy , right now , and I wondered how the Canadian ban fits into what you are experiencing at the moment . <p> GG : I 've been grappling with the Harper government across the Atlantic and fighting an election in the East End of London at the same time and this is not what I would have chosen , but that 's the way it 's broken . I 've been talking to the Canadian media in the last few days more than I have been able to talk to the British media . <p> Skipping ahead , I am also preparing to sail into Gaza with humanitarian aid from Turkey on May 15 , so everything is quite tight . If it goes our way in court , then as soon as I can -- or tout de suite -- I 'll be there in Canada , pausing only to collect my toothbrush . <p> CA : I understand you were attacked in London recently while you were campaigning . What happened ? <p> GG : The Islamist fundamentalists do n't like us , because we are their rivals in the constituency . We say to Muslims that are angry and bitter that they are right to be angry , but the best way to be angry is to engage in the democratic political process with people who are not Muslims , but who are equally angry about the same things . That 's not a message that the fundamentalists want to hear . <p> NOTE : Police arrested and bailed three men on suspicion of behaviour likely to cause harassment , alarm or distress with regards to the alleged attack , which took place on April 10 . <p> CA : How often had you visited Canada before the ban ? <p> GG : I 've travelled very widely in Canada : Montreal , Vancouver , Toronto , Ottawa , and I 've spoken , of course , by video link in many other places , Mississauga and others . The best way to get to the top of the bestsellers list is to have someone ban your book , and one of the consequences of Jason Kenney 's foolish ban is that far more people in Canada know what I stand for and will be interested to hear me when I eventually get there , than ever would have been the case if he had not embarked on this . <p> CA : Are the issues raised by your banning bigger for Canadians than for you ? <p> Yes . I want to stress I have no automatic right of free speech in Canada . Yours is a sovereign country and can exclude people that it sees fit under its own law . But when the law is perverted in such a way , and the result is that Canadians are denied their sovereign right to hear someone they want to hear , then that 's much bigger than this individual case . <p> If Canada is governed by people who are capable of telling a pack of lies , then that 's the biggest issue of all . <p> CA : You 're very much aware of the email exchanges regarding your ban between Immigration Minister Jason Kenney 's director of communications , Alykhan Velshi , and the bureaucrats in Ottawa and London . What are your thoughts on them ? <p> GG : I learned of my ban from the front page of the dirtiest newspaper in Britain , Rupert Murdoch 's Sun , which is a very strange way to conduct diplomatic behaviour between the high commission in London and a senior British parliamentarian . They did n't have the grace or the manners to call me personally and tell me that this was going to be in the papers and that this decision had been made . <p> But more importantly than that , it turns out that what was claimed to be a decision of the immigration department , which the immigration minister was unlikely to overturn , it turns out that it was a decision made in the minister 's office , and the immigration department was instructed to comply . <p> CA : Did you feel that your privacy rights had been violated , given how the ban became public knowledge ? What have you been advised regarding this by your lawyers ? <p> GG : Yes . I do n't know the details of the laws , but it was undoubtedly a breach of my privacy and a breach of diplomatic etiquette , and it 's damaging to Canada 's relation with the world , especially with fellow parliamentarians . When that news broke in The Sun , people thought it was some kind of spoof . How could Canada ban a senior British parliamentarian on the grounds that he was a security risk ? It 's just too ridiculous for words . <p> And then there 's the issue of how I am able to sit in New York and deliver speeches by videolink to Canada . New York , the centre of the biggest terrorist atrocity in the western world , I can travel in and out of at will . But Canada , I ca n't . This is a measure of how Canada has become Israel 's ambassador at large . Not just Israel 's ambassador at large , but Netanyahu 's ambassador at large -- the most extreme government that Israel has ever had . <p> I ca n't imagine why Canada would want to throw away the high reputation it had in the world as a decent place in which people respected others . For what ? For Netanyahu ? What 's in that for Canada ? <p> CA : There many pages of emails , memos and other documents about your banning case which the Government of Canada 's lawyers tried to redact , including the exchanges between Velshi and government and high commission staff . What are your feelings about that ? <p> GG : Redaction is the last refuge of the scoundrel . And these scoundrels who tried to redact were confounded by a good , old-fashioned cock-up mistake , because the material has ended up public anyway . You could n't make it up . <p> CA : The George Galloway ban case is coming smack in the middle of other troubles for the Harper government : the Guergis/Jaffer affair , the Speaker 's ruling on redacted information regarding Afghan detainees , and more . Your situation seems to be part of a larger series of problems this government is now facing . <p> GG : Yes . I have to be careful not to stray too deeply into Canadian political waters , but it 's clear to me that the Harper government has really damaged Canada 's reputation in the world and its standing amongst its own people . It is severely reduced . And this case that I 'm involved in has contributed to that . <p> Mr. Kenney has lain a gunpowder trail which has ended up blowing up in the government 's face . <p> CA : People are saying , well , journalists are saying , that George Galloway could n't have bought this kind of publicity in Canada . What do you say to that ? <p> GG : Undoubtedly , the audience , when I do arrive , if I 'm allowed to enter the country , will be vastly greater than it would have been had I not been banned , and that 's the ultimate irony . If I were Mr. Harper , I would be asking Mr. Kenney how he embarked on such a very foolish course of action . And I suspect that when people do hear what I 've got to say about Palestine and about the war in Afghanistan that they will understand maybe a bit more why the Harper government was so unwilling to let me speak there . <p> CA : I understand you had launched a libel suit against Jason Kenney and others for being accused of supporting terrorism but had to abandon it . <p> GG : I had to abandon it for financial reasons . The lawyers were charging me $30,000 a month before the case started , and then the costs of the case . And then the case might have taken up to two years . It was completely beyond my reach and I had to abandon it . I 'm sorry about that , but I had to . <p> CA : If you succeed in overturning the ban , will you revive it ? <p> GG : I 'm not sure the statute of limitations allow for it , but obviously we 'll look at it . <p> CA : When will you come if the ban is overturned ? <p> GG : I 've got the British election on May 6 and I 'm sailing into Gaza on the 15th , or leaving Turkey on the 15th and arriving into Gaza a few days later , God willing , and I do n't know how long I 'll be stuck at sea . That depends on the Israeli navy , I suppose . But as soon as I can after that , I 'll be in Canada . <p> But we wo n't know the result of today 's hearing for four weeks , as I understand it . <p> CA : I know you 've answered this before , but could you tell me about your relationship with Hamas , which apparently caused this whole problem ? <p> GG : I 've never been a supporter of Hamas and I 'm not now . I met President Arafat when I was 23 years old , and I was with him at his bedside in Paris when he died five years ago , and I remain loyal to his political life . I 'm not in favour of Hamas , but I am in favour of democracy . The Palestinian people are entitled to choose their own leadership and nobody else is entitled to choose it for them , least of all those who seek to negate them , who seek to drive them off the map and out of the political game . <p> That 's real nub of the question , is n't it ? I think it 's immoral to kill people 's children because of how their parents voted in a democratic election . There are others , and Harper 's government is one of them , who believe it 's entirely legitimate to starve people 's children to death and I just do n't . <p> CA : In terms of the ongoing campaign of the boycotting of Israel , the divestment movement and the framing of Israel as an apartheid state , has this changed the way Israel is being viewed now ? Is it different now ? <p> GG : Well , I think it is . Israel has been spending its political capital with profligate abandon since 1982 , since the big invasion of Lebanon in 1982 , which led to the massacre in the Sabra and Sh ? tila camps . Then in 2006 , their invasion of Lebanon , in 2008-09 , their invasion of Gaza , their murder of the Palestinian operative in Dubai on Jan. 20 , 2010 , the stealing of the passports of many friendly countries , have all more-or-less left the Israeli political bank balance close to zero . The only place where they seem to have credit now is with the Harper government . <p> CA : How has British public opinion moved on this issue ? <p> GG : It has moved decisively . When I started out on this campaign in 1975 , when I was 21 , you could 've fitted all the supporters of the Palestinian struggle in my office , with room for an elephant at the back . Now there are millions and millions of people who know that the Palestine question is the heart of the matter . It 's the flaw at the heart of western policy towards the middle east , and that has been paid for very expensively in Palestinian blood . <p> The more these changes take place in public opinion , the more reckless , really , the Israeli government has become , and it 's all the more surprising , therefore , that Canada should have a government so absolutely ... well , I do n't want to use the word craven because that would suggest submissiveness . I do n't think the Canadian government is submissive towards Israel , I think the Harper government is the last redoubt of George Bushism , and they ideologically identify with Netanyahu . It 's particularly tragic . <p> George Galloway is the Respect Party MP for Bethnal Green and Bow in London , and is currently running for re-election in a neighbouring riding . <p> Cathryn Atkinson is the News and Features editor of rabble.ca . Read her two articles on the case here and here . <p> More people are reading rabble.ca than ever and unlike many news organizations , we have never put up a paywall -- at rabble we 've always believed in making our reporting and analysis free to all , while striving to make it sustainable as well . Media is n't free to produce . rabble 's total budget is likely less than what big corporate media spend on photocopying ( we kid you not ! ) and we do not have any major foundation , sponsor or angel investor . Our main supporters are people and organizations -- like you . This is why we need your help . You are what keep us sustainable . <p> rabble.ca has staked its existence on you . We live or die on community support -- your support ! We get hundreds of thousands of visitors and we believe in them . We believe in you . We believe people will put in what they can for the greater good . We call that sustainable . <p> So what is the easy answer for us ? Depend on a community of visitors who care passionately about media that amplifies the voices of people struggling for change and justice . It really is that simple . When the people who visit rabble care enough to contribute a bit then it works for everyone . <p> And so we 're asking you if you could make a donation , right now , to help us carry forward on our mission . Make a donation today . 
@@51710453 <h> China says virus pushing U.S. ties to brink of ' Cold War ' <p> BEIJING , CHINA --China said Sunday that relations with the United States were " on the brink of a new Cold War " , fuelled in part by tensions over the coronavirus pandemic that has killed nearly 350,000 people worldwide and pitched the global economy into a massive downturn . <p> Fresh tensions between Beijing and Washington emerged as virus restrictions muted celebrations by Muslims around the world of the end of Ramadan , Islam 's holy fasting month . <p> More European nations meanwhile moved to ease their lockdowns . <p> In Britain , Prime Minister Boris Johnson was on Sunday forced to defend his top aide Dominic Cummings , accused of having breached the government 's own lockdown rules . <p> Globally more than 5.3 million people have been infected by the virus , which most scientists believe jumped from animals to humans -- possibly at a market in the central Chinese city of Wuhan , where the pandemic emerged in December . <p> U.S. President Donald Trump has accused Beijing of a lack of transparency over the outbreak , and is pushing the theory that it may have leaked from a top-security Chinese laboratory . <p> Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi said Sunday that Washington had been infected by a " political virus " to continually attack China , but that Beijing would nevertheless be open to an international effort to find the coronavirus source . <p> " It has come to our attention that some political forces in the U.S. are taking China-U.S. relations hostage and pushing our two countries to the brink of a new Cold War , " Wang said . <p> He blasted what he called efforts by U.S. politicians to " fabricate rumours " about the virus 's origin and " stigmatise China " . <p> While European nations initially among the hardest hit have started to ease lockdowns in a bid to salvage economies and lifestyles , other countries such as Brazil , where deaths have surged , are emerging as new centres of the pandemic . <h> END OF RAMADAN <p> Hundreds of millions of Muslims around the world were celebrating the Eid al-Fitr holiday marking the end of Ramadan , with Islam 's two most important mosques still closed to worshippers in Mecca and Medina . <p> At the same time , churches were reopening in some countries , Spain 's football league announced it would kick off again on June 8 , and thousands flocked to beaches in the U.S. , where lockdowns and social distancing are issues that have begun to split communities . <p> With infection numbers stabilising in the West , many governments are trying to move towards lighter social distancing measures to revive moribund business and tourism sectors , while remaining wary of a second wave of infections . <p> In Spain , Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez sought to reassure potential visitors , saying that from July 1 , " entry for foreign tourists into Spain will resume in secure conditions . " <p> Italy is also due to reopen its borders to foreign tourists from June 3 . <p> South Africa 's President Cyril Ramaphosa meanwhile said Sunday that a controversial ban on the sale of alcohol would be lifted for home consumption when the country moves into level three of a five-tier coronavirus lockdown next month . <p> Primary schools in England will reopen to some pupils from June 1 , the government said . Secondary school pupils will return later , with " some contact " between teachers and older children preparing for exams from June 15 . <p> Reopening schools remains controversial in Britain , which has the highest number of coronavirus deaths in Europe . <p> French churches were holding their first Sunday masses in more than two months after the government bowed to a court ruling that they should be reopened -- provided proper precautions were taken . <p> " My cell phone is crackling with messages ! " Father Pierre Amar , a priest in Versailles , just outside Paris , told AFP . <p> France 's mosques , however , called on Muslims to stay at home for the Eid al-Fitr holiday . They said they would gradually resume services from June 3 . <p> In Saudi Arabia , Eid prayers will be held at the Mecca and Medina mosques " without worshippers " , authorities said as the kingdom began a five-day curfew after infections quadrupled since the start of Ramadan . <p> " Eid is not Eid with the atmosphere of coronavirus -- people feel a sense of fear , " Palestinian Akram Taher said in Gaza , where worshippers wore masks and kept prayer mats apart . <p> For Christians in Jerusalem , the Church of the Holy Sepulchre briefly reopened its doors , but with tight restrictions in place . <h> BRITISH SCANDAL <p> In Britain , Prime Minister Johnson rejected calls for him to fire Cummings after a row over reports that the top aide had flouted the lockdown rules . <p> Cummings was seen visiting his parents in Durham , 250 miles ( 400 kilometres ) away from his London home in March , despite suffering from virus symptoms . The Observer and Sunday Mirror reported he had broken lockdown restrictions again in April . <p> " He has acted responsibly and legally and with integrity , " Johnson said of Cummings , despite criticism from some within his own party . <p> An investigation by Britain 's Sunday Times newspaper meanwhile found that the March 11 Champions League Liverpool-Atletico Madrid match in England may have " led to 41 additional " coronavirus deaths . <p> Despite positive signs elsewhere , the disease continued its surge in large parts of South America . Brazil 's death toll now exceeds 22,000 and infections top 347,000 , the world 's second-highest caseload . <p> In the U.S. , where the death toll is highest in the world nearing 100,000 , President Trump has dismissed the advice of health experts and pushed to reopen the economy . <p> He sent a signal of his intentions by playing golf on Saturday -- his first outing to the links since March 8 . <p> But The New York Times marked the grim U.S. toll on Sunday with a memorial on its front page carrying one-line obituaries for 1,000 victims . <p> " The 1,000 people here reflect just one percent of the toll . None were mere numbers , " the newspaper said . <p> The U.S. economy has shed almost 40 million jobs this year and many companies have gone to the wall . But most states have begun easing their lockdowns and many reopened public beaches despite infection worries . 
@@51711139 <h> -3.63(-0.03%) <h> -0.40(-0.22%) <h> -2.40(-0.14%) <h> The Montreal billionaire bringing cycling to the Mid East <p> Sylvan Adams , Honorary President of Giro d'Italia 's " Big Start " Israel , speaks during the unveiling of Israel 's first Velodrome in Tel Aviv , Israel May 1 , 2018 . Picture taken May 1 , 2018 . REUTERS/Nir Elias <p> Sylvan Adams is double-booked and juggling three conversations . We 're supposed to speak this morning but his photo shoot with an Israeli magazine is now running long . He 's in his north Tel Aviv penthouse overlooking the Mediterranean . AtUS$34.8-million it was the most expensive home in Israel when he bought it in 2014 . I 'm waiting on the line in Toronto . Adams is negotiating between the camera crew , his assistant and me , the sticking point being when all of this publicity will be coming out . Naturally , the magazine does n't want their piece scooped by this one , and Adams has no interest in any of this coverage getting scuttled . <p> Of all of the things Adams inherited from his family , a penchant for media appearances is not among them . Not from his father , at least . Marcel Adams eschewed the spotlight so assiduously while building Montreal-based Iberville Developments into a billion-dollar real estate empire , that he was included among Canada 's ' Hermit Kings ' in the Globe and Mail 's 2006 detailing of the country 's most reclusive moguls . <p> Marcel 's youngest son suffers from no such shyness . Indeed , Sylvan has an impassioned story he wants to tell .... As well as a few other thoughts on politics , history and the media that he 's more than happy to share . His main message and animating force though is his love for Israel . Specifically , his desire for the country to be seen by others in the same light that he sees it . A second , complementary mission is his devotion to cycling ; as an elite sport , a societal good , and as a conduit for showcasing all that is wonderful about a place . <p> At the beginning of May , all of these threads were woven together in a three-day , globally-watched celebration of sport in the Holy Land . <p> Italian cyclist Elia Viviani crosses the finish line during the third stage of 2018 Giro d'Italia , Tour of Italy cycling race , in the Red Sea city of Eilat , southern Israel , Sunday , May 6 , 2018 . ( AP Photo/Ariel Schalit ) <p> The reason for the race <p> " Correction .... " Adams stops me in mid-sentence . " I am THE guy who brought the Giro to Israel " . In asking about his part in persuading one of the world 's most prestigious bike races to begin this year in Jerusalem , I clearly must have inferred a less starring role for Adams . And if so , the mistake is all mine . He is unequivocally the reason the Giro D'Italia held its first three stages in Israel , before finishing the remaining 3,100km of the tour in Italy . <p> In the world of pro cycling , or even in Middle Eastern sports , that 's no small matter . Never before in the race 's 101-year-old history had any section of it been staged outside of Europe . For Adams though , that 's only part of a much-bigger plan . The end-game is to elevate cycling in the country he now calls home . His mission includes funding a network of bike lanes connecting Tel Aviv , building a world-class velodrome to promote track cycling , and sponsoring a racing team to both compete on the pro circuit , and to inspire young Israelis to pick up the sport . Think of Vince Carter and Steve Nash capturing the imagination of Canadians in the aughts and sparking a northern pipeline of new talent straight into the NBA . That 's what Adams is seeking to emulate in Israel . <p> For those unversed in the magnitude of pro cycling , which , fairly enough is pretty much everyone in Canada , it 's tempting to dismiss the Giro D'Italia as simply a smaller , less famous version of the Tour de France . ( And that 's if you have heard of it at all ) . <p> While inarguably true that the Giro is not " The Tour " , the race remains enormously significant . Total viewership is pegged somewhere between 775 million and a billion people , figures that easily exceed every Winter Olympics on record . This May 's race was broadcast in 198 countries , making it one of the most globally-seen sports events in history . <p> For Adams , it 's these facts almost as much as the cycling itself that fueled his desire to land the race , and led him to pick upUS$16-million of the US$20-million price tag to host the opening stages . He is absolutely determined that Israel be in the spotlight for something other than sectarian strife and religious fanaticism . That this has been so rarely the case recently is a source of overweening frustration for Adams . It takes little prompting to get him speaking at length about the easy mix of Arabs and Jews on the Tel Aviv boardwalk at dusk , or of the Israeli doctors who tend to Arabs in need . The fair-minded police , the restaurateurs welcoming all ... the harmony knows no bounds . <p> Adams places the fault of these truths not being more widely appreciated firmly at the feet of the media , and their myopic obsessions with the narrowest of topics . If there 's a focus on the tensions here , he insists , seemingly without irony , it 's a function of lazy journalists preferring the comforts of their hotel , rather than deigning to witness what 's actually going on in the country . <p> When he warms to a topic , you get the sense that Adams has grown comfortably accustomed to being either the family heir or the most generous benefactor at the table . Dissenting views or doubts offered seem very unfamiliar . Still , there is no questioning his sincerity or his wish that more of Israel could be seen as peaceful and colourful as the beaches of Tel Aviv . <p> One small , symbolic step to improve the narrative , and strike a more hopeful note is Adams ' decision to add the image of a dove with an olive branch in its mouth -- the logo of the Peres Center for Peace and Innovation -- to the jerseys of the Israeli racers in the Giro . <p> Unfortunately , those patches could do little to prevent the bloody clashes that flared up on the Gaza border , within two weeks of the race , killing 60 , injuring 2,700 and almost completely dominating international coverage of the country for the rest of the month . <p> In fact , local tensions almost derailed the event before its start . When the Giro announced it was coming to Israel , they said the first stage would be in ' West ' Jerusalem , a distinction that exists only if there is also ' East ' Jerusalem , the part of the city long viewed by Palestinians as their future capital . All this to say that Giro representatives were either sending an extremely political message or operating with a very outdated map . Regardless the message from the Israeli government was unequivocal : Remove all references to a ' West ' or count us out . Race officials quickly capitulated . <p> And so , on Friday , May 4 176 riders lined up along the edge of Jerusalem 's Old City . Spectators crowded the sidewalks and no less a figure than beloved , if tarnished , cycling legend Lance Armstrong covered the event from Tel Aviv . On his podcast , The Move , Armstrong spoke glowingly of the organizers , the country and the celebratory spirit on the street . For Adams , it was exactly the kind of publicity he so fervently wanted to garner for the event . ( That Armstrong cited him by name as the one who made it possible could only have been a deeply gratifying bonus ) . <p> If things could get any better , they did shortly afterwards when Adams stood at the podium and presented the pink jersey to the stage winner , and last year 's champion , Tom DuMoulin . Even standing next to DuMoulin would 've undoubtedly been a thrill for Adams , himself an accomplished age-group cyclist . Despite only taking up the sport in his 40s , Adams has won 17 Quebec championships , six Canadian masters titles , and four Pan-Am gold medals . A natural athlete , he 's proved to be exceptional on the bike , deepening his passion and further propelling his current mission . <p> That includes the US$19-million velodrome in Tel Aviv which now bears his name , as well as his co-ownership of the country 's first professional team , the Israel Cycling Academy . Most significant however , at least in his adopted hometown , is the Sylvan Adams Cycling Network , an extensive system of paths linking Tel Aviv to the neighbouring suburbs . <p> One of the benefits of being a billionaire is that you can make a splash , and that Adams most certainly has done since moving to Israel two years ago . His endowments extend from a US$21.5-million sports institute to an award honoring exceptional newcomers to the country . And Adams is now part of that number , having stepped down from the CEO 's post at Iberville and officially immigrated to Israel . When asked about the decision , in his late 50s , to leave Canada for good , Adams declines to explain further . And that 's fair enough . Anyone who 's endured five decades of Montreal winters , the majority of those years in the commercial real estate business , requires little explanation for choosing to spend the next phase of their life in infinitely warmer Tel Aviv , especially if that time is going to be spent in a sprawling two-storey penthouse on the Mediterranean . <p> It is the view that Adams sees when he looks out the window ... the beach , the boardwalk , the families picnicking on the sabbath , that he wants to share . " People visit me , they come here , and experience the place , and they ca n't believe it , " he says . " There is peace here . That 's what I want people to know . " 
@@51712255 <p> The Latest on the coronavirus pandemic . The new coronavirus causes mild or moderate symptoms for most people . For some , especially older adults and people with existing health problems , it can cause more severe illness or death . <p> TOP OF THE HOUR : <p> -- President Putin says virus stabilized in Russia . <p> -- Italy drug agency leader warns of anti-malaria drug use . <p> -- Virus accelerates across Latin America , India , Pakistan . <p> KEYSTONE , S.D. -- Mount Rushmore is opening sooner than expected . The national memorial and its facilities and restaurants will be opening Saturday , about three weeks earlier than previously planned . <p> The National Park Service 's website says the grounds will be open from 5 a.m. to 11 p.m . <p> " After careful consideration and consultation with local and state health authorities , we are pleased to announce that Mount Rushmore 's parking lot , retail shops , and Memorial Team Ice Cream will open earlier than expected on Saturday , May 23 , " according to the memorial 's Facebook . <p> The Nature Trail and the Presidential Trail will be open to the base of the mountain , and the Sculptor 's Studio will be open . The park service says the information centre and gift shop are closed and all educational and interpretive programs are suspended . <p> The amphitheatre , Avenue of Flags and a short section of the Presidential Trail are closed due to deferred maintenance . <p> Visitors are encouraged to maintain physical distancing and hand sanitizer dispensers are available in multiple locations . Employees will be wearing personal protective equipment that is appropriate for their job responsibilities . <p> ROME -- Italy has registered 652 new coronavirus cases , even as the number of people in the country known to be currently positive for COVID-19 continues to decline . <p> According to Health Ministry figures , the nation where the outbreak began in Europe now has 228,658 cases . Nearly 300 of the latest confirmed infections were registered in Lombardy , the northern region which also has had the highest number of deaths in Italy . <p> In the 24-hour period ending Friday evening , 130 deaths nationwide of infected patients were confirmed , raising Italy 's overall death count to 32,616 . <p> But in recent days , various government agencies , comparing the numbers of deaths during the outbreak this year to the same period last year , have concluded that surely far more persons who died this year likely had COVID-19 but were n't tested . Many who died in nursing facilities or in their own homes did n't receive COVID-19 tests . <p> Cyprus ' Transport Minister Yiannis Karousos says flights will begin from countries , selected by a team of medical experts , on June 9 and June 20 . <p> The first group includes Greece , Malta , Bulgaria , Norway , Austria , Finland , Slovenia , Hungary , Israel , Denmark , Germany , Slovakia and Lithuania . The second group includes Switzerland , Poland , Romania , Croatia , Estonia and the Czech Republic . <p> Karousos says starting June 9 , passengers arriving from countries in either group must get a health certificate confirming they virus-free three days before departure . <p> Starting June 20 , passengers from the first group of countries wo n't need health certificates , but those from second group will still be required to produce . <p> He says local organizations and governments can set rules and guidelines . The state wo n't pre-empt those rules . <p> DeSantis says there have been no deaths in Florida of people under age 25 . <p> People walk on Ledra street a main shopping street in Nicosia , Cyprus , Thursday , May 21 , 2020 . Cyprus took a major step toward a return to normality on Thursday when most restrictions of a two month-long stay-at-home order were lifted , allowing primary school kids to return to classes and hair salons and outdoor cafeterias to re-open . ( AP Photo/Petros Karadjias ) <p> Also , Miami Beach city commissioners agreed to open beaches and hotels on June 1 , a week after the Memorial Day holiday weekend . Officials say they did n't want large crowds at the beach over the long holiday weekend that unofficially kicks off the summer season . <p> On Friday , there was more than 49,000 reported cases in Florida , with more than 2,100 deaths . The median age of people infected was 54 years old . <p> GAZA CITY , Gaza Strip -- Gaza 's Hamas rulers have allowed mosques to reopen for Friday prayers for the first time since March despite a spike in coronavirus cases . <p> Worshippers brought their own prayer rugs , wore masks and kept space between themselves . They were given hand sanitizer at the entrances to mosques . The opening came ahead of the Eid al-Fitr holiday , marking the end of the holy month of Ramadan . <p> Authorities in Gaza have reported 35 new cases in recent days , bringing the total number to 55 . All the new cases were detected in quarantine facilities . But they have renewed concerns about a wider outbreak that could overwhelm the depleted health care system in the impoverished territory , which is home to 2 million people . <p> Hamas says it would bar the entry of returnees until the end of June to allow health workers to deal with the new cases . <p> ATHENS , Greece -- Greece 's government has backed a plan to impose major traffic restrictions in central Athens over the summer . <p> The restrictions were proposed by Athens and include a ban for most vehicles along several central streets close to Parliament . City authorities say they hoped to launch the ban in mid-June for three months with a possible extension to follow . <p> Traffic was limited during the lockdown imposed in late March that was eased earlier this month , prompting many city residents to take up cycling and jogging in the downtown area . <p> Authorities reported one new death and 21 new infections on Friday , bringing the death toll to 169 and the total confirmed cases to 2,873 . <p> MADRID -- Spain 's foreign ministry says more than 700 Spaniards and Moroccans residents in Spain are returning by ferry from Morocco after a two-month wait . <p> They had been stranded in Morocco since the COVID-19 pandemic hit Europe and northern Africa in early March . <p> The ferry is leaving from Tangier and will arrive in M ? laga on Friday evening . <p> It 's the first ferry Spain 's government has sent to recover nationals and residents from Morocco during the health crisis . Spain 's government had previously arranged flights to return home from Morocco . <p> YANGON , Myanmar -- A court in Myanmar has sentenced a journalist to two years in prison for a story that erroneously reported a death from COVID-19 . <p> The lawyer for Zaw Ye Htet , an editor with the Karen State-based news agency Dae Pyaw , says his client was sentenced Wednesday under the Penal Code . It deems it an offence to publish or circulate any rumour or report that can cause fear or alarm among the public that may induce unrest . <p> The lawyer , Myint Thu Zar Maw , says Friday his client was arrested on April 13 , the same day he published the incorrect report of the death in Myawaddy , a city on the border with Thailand . <p> Zaw Ye Htet 's wife , Phyu Phyu Win , says her husband acknowledged the error after being summoned by police . He posted a correction online , but was arrested . <p> Myanmar and international rights groups say the government uses the broadly worded Section 505(b) to stifle criticism and political dissent . <p> MOSCOW -- Russian President Vladimir Putin says the coronavirus has stabilized in the country , with the number of new infections abating . <p> Putin , speaking during Friday 's video conference with top officials , says " the positive dynamic is not so fast as we would like it to be , sometimes even unstable , but it does exist . " <p> Russia currently ranks second behind the United States in the number of infections with more than 326,400 reported cases and more than 3,200 deaths . The U.S. has more than 1.5 million cases and leads the world with more than 90,000 deaths . <p> The Russian leader says the positive trends set the stage for further lifting restrictions , but he emphasized the need to preserve the hospital capacity for a possible new wave of contagion . <p> Officials have reported to Putin the hospitals treating COVID-19 patients are currently filled by just over half and the influx of patients , particularly those in grave condition , has been decreasing . <p> The coronavirus mortality rate in Russia has remained remarkably low at about 1 per cent , drawing suspicions in the West that the country was under-reporting its death toll . Russian officials have rejected the claim , saying the low death toll reflected efficient preventative measures and broad testing . <p> GENEVA -- The United States says it wants the World Health Organization to start work " now " on a planned review of the WHO 's co-ordinated international response to the COVID-19 outbreak . <p> The U.N . health agency is facing a Trump administration threat to cut off funding . <p> Adm . Brett Giroir , an assistant secretary in the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services , sent a written letter to the U.N . health agency 's executive board meeting on Friday saying the United States believes the WHO can " immediately initiate organizational processes for the review , " such as by bringing together independent health experts and setting up guidelines for it . <p> Giroir is one of the board 's 34 international members but did n't participate in person in the board 's first virtual meeting on Friday . <p> He alluded to a resolution passed Tuesday by the WHO 's assembly calling on its director-general , Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus , to launch " comprehensive evaluation " of the WHO-co-ordinated international response to the outbreak to begin " at the earliest appropriate moment . " <p> The bill approved by lawmakers Friday would take control over the state 's pandemic response from Democratic Gov . Laura Kelly and give much of it to the Legislature 's mostly Republican leaders . <p> Some Democrats predicted Kelly would veto the bill , but her office stopped short of promising that . Democrats objected to curbing Kelly 's power and predicted substandard nursing homes and manufacturers of defective personal protective equipment would be shielded from being held accountable in the state 's courts . <p> The Republican plan would require Kelly to get permission from legislative leaders to keep businesses closed for more than 15 days or to exercise other broad powers granted to governors during emergencies after May 31 . Legislative leaders also would have the final say in how $1.25 billion in federal relief funds are spent . <p> PARIS -- French Prime Minister Edouard Philippe says France will hold the second round of municipal elections on June 28 , nearly four months after the first round in March was interrupted by the coronavirus lockdown . <p> The voting will take place in the 5,000 districts in which the first round was not decisive , including the French capital where Mayor Annie Hidalgo , a Socialist , held a strong lead in March voting . <p> Some 30,000 other districts elected their municipal councils , which designate their mayors , outright . The prime minister says the June 28 date " is reversible " if it 's deemed that health concerns are too important a week before the vote . <p> France counts more than 28,000 deaths from COVID-19 . <p> ROME -- The head of Italy 's pharmacological agency says there is little data about the effectiveness of the anti-malaria drug promoted by U.S. President Donald Trump to treat coronavirus . <p> Dr. Nicola Magrini offered a briefing on the various trials the Italian Pharmacological Agency had approved during the coronavirus crisis , including one involving hydroxychloroquine . <p> Magrini says while the drug was being used in Italy , the agency recommended it only in some patients , preferably on its own or in association with other drugs only in clinical trial settings . <p> While the science is still out on hydroxychloroquine 's effectiveness , Magrini said : " We are fairly certain about the possible harm and absence of security of using it in some limited sub-groups of patients . " <p> Trump has said he is taking hydroxychloroquine to protect against the coronavirus , even though his administration has warned it can have deadly side effects . <p> Magrini adds he did n't expect a vaccine before spring or summer of next year . Italian researchers are collaborating on the Oxford University vaccine . <p> MADRID -- The Spanish government is allowing Madrid and Barcelona to ease their lockdown measures . <p> Most of Spain has begun to slowly reopen since May 11 , but those two areas combine for nearly half of the country 's 233,000 officially recorded cases . Spain 's COVID-19 death toll of almost 28,000 is the world 's fifth highest . <p> The government is allowing the country 's 17 autonomous regions to gradually lift restrictions on movement and social distancing . The loosening of limits is staggered over four stages , with a requirement that certain targets , including the number of cases and hospital capacity , are met before moving onto the next stage . <h> Stay informed <p> Health Minister Salvador Illa says the Madrid region and city of Barcelona are moving into Phase 1 on Monday . That permits outdoor-only seating for restaurants and bars up to 50% of capacity , gatherings of families and friends of up to 10 people . It also allows the reopening of small shops , museums , cinemas and places of worship , all with restrictions on capacity . <p> BERLIN -- A German regional politician is reportedly suggesting taking in COVID-19 patients from Russia , which is seeing a spike in cases . <p> German weekly Der Spiegel reported Saxony 's governor , Michael Kretschmer , says it would be a " strong sign " if the European Union treated Russian patients , too . Germany has taken in scores of coronavirus patients from other EU countries , particularly France and Italy , in recent months . <p> Kretmscher told Spiegel that " we should also show solidarity with Russia . " <p> Russian health officials reported more than 326,000 cases of COVID-19 on Friday and more than 3,200 deaths . <p> Follow AP news coverage of the coronavirus pandemic at https : **26;417;TOOLONG and https : **37;445;TOOLONG **17;484; The Free Press would like to thank our readers for their patience while comments were not available on our site . We 're continuing to work with our commenting software provider on issues with the platform . In the meantime , if you 're not able to see comments after logging in to our site , please try refreshing the page . <p> You can comment on most stories on The Winnipeg Free Press website . You can also agree or disagree with other comments . All you need to do is be a Winnipeg Free Press print or digital subscriber to join the conversation and give your feedback . <h> Have Your Say <h> Have Your Say <p> Comments are open to The Winnipeg Free Press print or digital subscribers only . why ? 
@@51713592 <p> ' Once again , Hamas is using this political development US embassy opening to cynically foment chaos on the Gaza border . The terrorist group has doubled down on the exploitation of their own people ... " - CIJA CEO Shimon Koffler , May 14 , 2018 <p> " Israeli Miko Peled explains the threat of ' terrorism ' is a non-issue in Palestine today and a shameless excuse for crimes in Gaza . " <p> " ... The killing now taking place is , in other words , exactly , to the letter , the ' killing and killing and killing ' he called for 14 years ago . Calmly , premeditated and intentionally designed by its architect , it is equally calmly and intentionally being carried out by Iraeli soldiers . <p> In response to the current killing and shooting a senior member of the Israeli parliament , Avi Dichter , reassured his audience on live television on Monday that they need not be unduly concerned . Their army , he told them , ' has enough bullets for everyone . ' <p> The people of Gaza are exterminable because they are not Jewish . That is what the situation amounts to , not according to critics of the siege of Gaza , but according to its architects , planners , enablers and supporters ... " <p> " We could see very quickly that the Israelis were going to shoot a lot of people , Tarek Loubani , a Palestinian Canadian emergency physician who treated patients in Gaza on 14 May , told the Electronic Intifada Podcast . <p> According to Loubani , four members of his team , including himself and Abu Hassanein , were shot that day - mostly in the lower limbs . Activists criticized the Canadian government 's diluted responses as well as the Israel lobby 's defense of Israel 's violence . " <p> " ... Our only option is to stay on our land . To be on our land . Today between the River Jordan and the Mediterranean , we are the majority - as Palestinian Arabs , Palestinian Christians and Muslims . We are 50.9% . Jews are 49.1% . What are they going to do with us ? <p> We have recognised Israel 's right to exist . We have accepted a Palestinian state with East Jerusalem as its capital . To live side by side in peace and security with the state of Israel . What does Israel do in return ? More settlements , more dictations , more killing , more murders , more sieges , more closures , more collective punishments , more house demolitions . <p> All of these actions are being done in 2018 by a member of the UN . And they call it ' the only democracy in the ME . It 's fascism ! Never in the history of South Africa and the darkest hours of Apartheid were blacks prevented from using roads that whites were using . Today , in the West Bank and East Jerusalem are roads we can not use as Palestinians . <p> This must stop . We will stand up . We will not depart . This is our land . And we will defend ourselves ... " <p> " Yesha Council , represents the Jewish settler movement , and the right wing ( My Israel ) movement , ran their first workshop this week in Jerusalem , teaching participants how to rewrite and revise some of the most hotly disputed pages of the online reference site . <p> ' We do n't want to change Wikipedia , or turn it into a propaganda arm , ' says Naftali Bennett , director of the Yesha Council . ' We just want to show the other side . People think that Israelis are mean , evil people who only want to hurt Arabs all day . " <p> ' I 've killed lots of Arabs in my life and have no problem with that ' . Naftali Bennett <p> " ... With the fall of white rule in South Africa in 1994 , Israel is now the world 's last apartheid state , a government based in ethnic and racial supremacy . Its very existence is an insult to humanity . Israel is the antithesis of civilization . It is , by nature , racist barbarism . <p> All the civilized peoples of the world are in solidarity with the Palestinians , who face the last bastion of legalized racial rule on the planet . Their catastrophe , their nakba , was among the last acts of a racist imperial order that must ultimately be swept away . <p> If not , then the final nakba is coming - for all of us . " <p> Names and Faces of the 62 Palestinians Killed by Israeli Forces this Week <p> " ... The Palestinians now are asking for a special UN protection for the Palestinian people to replace the occupation in the occupied territories . That motion should be supported by these kinds of motions . We need to be more practical , on the ground , ' Saeed Nimer , a professor of political science at Birzeit University , told Press TV in an interview on Friday . " <p> " Israel 's massacre of dozens of Palestinians in the occupied Gaza Strip last Monday is sharpening the divide between the French state and the country 's staunchly pro-Israel leaders . Since Monday , people have demonstrated in solidarity with Palestinians all over the country , including thousands in the streets of Paris ... " <p> " Israel has been keeping 1.9 million Palestinians ' caged in a toxic slum from birth to death ' in the Gaza Strip , UN human rights chief Zeid Ra'ad al Hussein told a special session of the Human Rights Council on Friday . His remarks come as the council began considering a draft resolution on sending an international warcrimes probe to Gaza ... " <p> " Every government in the world , except Israel , considers Israel 's settlement building since 1967 to be illegal . Israel is ' extremely unpopular worldwide ' . It consistently polls as , and today remains , in the bottom four most unpopular countries in the world ... " <p> Is the point that Canadians should stop caring about Palestine , because it 's hypocritical not to let Israel finish the same genocide Canada already perpetrated ? Is it that Canadians should feel superior , because Canada 's already given its colonized population the right to move freely ( 1935 ) and vote ( 1960 ) ? Or is it a message of reassurance to Israel that even if they grant Palestinians full citizenship on paper , it does n't mean they have to stop being racist , stop shooting them at their pleasure , or let them have their land back ? Please clarify . <p> Is the point that Canadians should stop caring about Palestine , because it 's hypocritical not to let Israel finish the same genocide Canada already perpetrated ? <p> That 's what it sounds like . The tweet is the same sort of thing you used to hear from South African diplomats doing whataboutery tours of First Nations reserves in the 80s . <p> And the thing is , the tweet only really makes sense if there IS widespread anger among Canadians about Israeli aggression in Palestine ( otherwise , the hypocrisy issue would be minimal ) . But that kind of contradicts the complaint by pro-Palestinian activists that their cause is shut out of mainstream discussion in Canada . <p> Protestors took to the streets of Argentina , Bolivia , Brazil , Chile and Venezuela on May 15 in solidarity with the Palestinian people , while students occupied the main administration building at Chile 's largest public university , Universidad de Chile , that day . <p> Students from the Department of Philosophy and Humanities at Universidad de Chile had voted the previous day to endorse the BDS movement and to call on the university to sever ties with the University of Tel Aviv and the Hebrew University of Jerusalem . <p> BDS Chile notes that these two universities are built on former Palestinian land and are linked to the development of military technology that enables the systematic oppression of Palestinians and Israelis who oppose Israel 's military occupation , TeleSUR English reported on May 15 . <p> Students from the departments of Medicine , Social Sciences and Law had previously voted in support of BDS and in favour of a university " free of Israeli apartheid . " <p> In April , more than 500 Latin American artists signed a statement publicly endorsing the Palestinian call for a cultural boycott of Israel in which they pledged to " reject any invitation to perform in Israel or at any event financed by this government that leads to the ' normalisation ' of apartheid , that is , where the regime of segregation maintained by the state of Israel against the Palestinian people is not denounced . " <p> Among the signatories are poets , painters , rappers , theatre directors , filmmakers , actors , writers , and musicians from 17 Latin American countries . <p> Meanwhile the campaign to get the Argentine national football ( soccer ) team to withdraw from its June 9 pre-World Cup friendly match against Israel continues to grow , inside the country and internationally . <p> BDSMovement.net wrote on May 15 : " The scheduled match will be part of Israel 's 70th anniversary ' celebrations ' and is taking place while Israel implements a criminal shoot-to-kill-or-maim policyagainst peaceful Palestinian protesters in Gaza . This makes the ' friendly ' a whitewash of Israel 's crimes and therefore extremely unfriendly to human rights ! ... <p> " The Israeli government has agreed to pay three million dollars to host the match . This is part of its ' sports-washing ' propaganda strategy , which exploits sporting events to hide its systemic human rights abuses against Palestinians . <p> Could Gaza become an independent mini-state like Qatar , or be linked to Egypt ? Hamas wanted all of Palestine as an Islamic state . The West Bank could be the State of Palestine , capital East Jerusalem with Jewish settlers as a minority with dual citizenship . Abbas clings to demands he knows Israel wo n't accept . <p> No comparison to Canada . Many Jewish Europeans wanted , after centuries of being an often persecuted minority in Christian Europe , a state ( of their own ) , the only Jewish majority state anywhere <p> " ... If 60 stray dogs were shot to death in one day by IDF soldiers , the whole country would raise an outcry . The dog slaughterers would be put on trial , the nation of Israel would have devoted prayers to the victims , a Yizkor service would be said for the dog slaughterers by Israel . <p> But on the night of the Palestinian slaughter , Zion rejoiced and was jubilant : We have an embassy and a Eurovision . It 's difficult to think of a more atrocious moral eclipse ... " <p> " The Canadian BDS Coalition and many of its member groups and friends are among the more than 50 signatures to this open letter sent on May 16th to Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and Minister of Foreign Affairs Chrystia Freeland ... " <p> At the UNHRC Justin Trudeau breaks the land-speed record for a cowardly flip-flop by opposing an independent investigation into the IDF 's Gaza massacres only two days after demanding such an investigation ... <p> The Canadian BDS Coalition and many of its member groups and friends are among the more than 50 signatories to this open letter sent on May 16th to Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and Minister of Foreign Affairs Chrystia Freeland . <p> " Trudeau is under tremendous pressure to ' walk back ' his criticism of Israeli killing of Palestinian civilians . He even got a call from Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu ... After years of telling the Palestinians they should try ' non-violent resistance ' It was mostly always that , they have done so , and have paid a terrible penalty in death and injury . Will Canada support them ? Or not ? <p> " ... From the foot soldiers to the big brass , from the flag-waving street folk to the height of academia , Israel is ideologically prepared to enact a Palestinian Shoa . Israeli society is ideologically prepared to enact a genocide on Palestinians right now , and if we do not make the comparison and act accordingly , Israel will march into the decisive stage , up to the 6th million Palestinian and over . <p> To stop the pending genocide , world leaders must cease talking and start acting . Arms embargo , economic sanctions and arrests of traveling war criminals will be a long-overdue start . Anything short of that is compliance . " <p> " For days now , the Israeli rewrite has been well underway , working overtime , to convince the world seven weeks of carnage in Palestine , more particularly Gaza , did not happen . Or , if it did , Israel 's response to the Great Return March was a measured , proportionate answer ... " <p> This is Why Gazans Are Continuing the Great Return March Protests ( and vid ) <p> " Hafsa Kara Mustapha , a journalist and Middle East expert from London , and Maxine Dovere , a reporter and political commentator , discuss Israel 's war crimes , apartheid against the Palestinian people and whether ICC will take any action against Israel . " <p> " In calling for an ' independent inquiry ' on why Israeli snipers killed 60 protesters in one day , Foreign Affairs Minister Freeland singles out ' Hamas ' . Netanyahu 's far right gov has been given a green light by ' Canada ' to continue killing Palestinians . Even when a Canadian doctor is shot by Israeli snipers , in an action that was clearly illegal , the Trudeau gov will shield Israel . " <p> Motasem Dalloul is one of over 100 journalists who were shot or injured during the Great Return March in Gaza . " This is my first appearance after intensive treatment for Israeli bullet that penetrated my back , chest , lungs , liver , while covering Great Return March 10 days ago . Israel , which shot me while among 20 foreign and local journalists , does n't want anyone to disclose its brutality . " <p> " ... All of this we do so the world can see how inhumane and unjust Israeli colonization is . There is no excuse to not see what is happening . As such , remaining complicit is a conscious and active decision to side with oppression and directly be a part of it ... " <p> " ... Falling in line automatically behind Netanyahu , as always , were his Canadian Zionist lapdogs at the Centre for Israel and Jewish Affairs ( CIJA ) . CIJA claims to represent ' the Jewish community ' in Canada when they say ' Israel had no choice but to use force . ' Since many Canadian Jews repudiate the leadership of CIJA , that too is chutzpah . <p> Should n't we expect Israelis , of all people , to have at least some empathy for the wretchedness of Gaza 's almost 2 million souls imprisoned in their tiny enclave ? Yet they seem to feel mostly race-based hatred . It 's shameful ... " <p> " The suffering of Gaza is a testament to the human capacity for sadism and pretending ' not to see ' : sadism on the part of the savage Israeli occupiers , who have never relaxed their iron grip on Gaza for a moment ... " <p> " More than 100 Palestinian protesters have been injured after gathering at the Israel-Gaza border to continue the March of Return protests , which have been marred by violence for over a month . On Friday , violence erupted near Khan Younis , when Israeli troops fired tear gas and live rounds to ward off protesters who had gathered . <p> The violence follows the Israeli Supreme Court 's decision to back the IDF in using live ammunition against protesters in Gaza . The Palestinian Foreign Ministry has called for an ICC investigation ... " <p> " Watch what Jimmy Dore had to say about an ' IDF ' tweet regarding the Great March of Return . ' So when you have people in prison , and you remove all their hope , what do you think they 're going to do ? " <p> " Palestinians previously shot by Israeli snipers took part in protests on Friday in Gaza . Their bodies are injured but their determination to be free of Israeli siege , occupation and terror is bullet-proof . " <p> " The court ruling gives the military ' a green light to its continued use of sniper and live fire against Palestinian protesters in the Gaza Strip , ' stated Al Mezan and Adalah , two of the groups that had petitioned the court . The two groups stated that the court had refused to watch the video clips documenting Israeli shootings of demonstrators and rather than actually examining the case , fully accepted the claims presented to it by the state . <p> The high court ruling may be viewed by the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) as an indication that Israel 's judicial authorities are unwilling to carry out genuine proceedings concerning crimes against Palestinian citizens . " <p> " For the first time , Gaza will attempt to break the 12-year-long siege by sea ! On Thursday morning , ships will set sail with a number of injured Gazans and patients aboard , carrying the hopes and dreams of the Palestinian people for freedom . " 
@@51718719 <h> Gaza quiet after Israel , Hamas agree to cease-fire <p> JERUSALEM -- The Israeli military lifted protective restrictions on residents in the south on Monday , while Gaza 's ruling Hamas militant group reported a cease-fire deal had been reached to end the deadliest fighting between the two sides since a 2014 war . <p> The escalation had killed 25 on the Gaza side , both militants and civilians , while on the Israeli side four civilians were killed by incoming fire . <p> The Islamic Jihad militant group , which Israel accused of instigating the latest violence , confirmed that a " mutual and concurrent " truce had been brokered by Egypt . Hamas spokesman Hazem Qassem said Egyptian mediators , along with officials from Qatar and the U.N. , helped reach the deal . He said Hamas could still use " different pressuring tools " to get Israel to ease a crippling blockade of Gaza . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu pointedly noted that " the campaign is not over , and it requires patience and judgment . " <p> The intense fighting over the past two days came to a halt early Monday and residents on both sides went back to their daily routines . Schools and roads had been closed , and Israelis had been urged to remain indoors and near bomb shelters as intense rocket fire pounded the area . <p> Israel and Hamas are bitter enemies and have fought three wars and numerous smaller battles since the Islamic militant group seized Gaza from Western-backed Palestinian forces in 2007 . <p> In the latest fighting , which erupted over the weekend , Palestinian militants fired hundreds of rockets into Israel , while the Israeli military responded with airstrikes on some 350 militant targets inside Gaza , including weapons storage , attack tunnels and rocket launching and production facilities . <p> It also deployed tanks and infantry forces to the Gaza frontier , and put another brigade on standby . A Hamas commander allegedly involved in transferring Iranian funds to the group was killed in an airstrike , in an apparent return to Israel 's policy of targeting militant leaders . <p> Palestinian medical officials reported 25 deaths , including at least 10 militants as well as three women , two of them pregnant , and two babies . The four Israeli civilians killed were the first Israeli fatalities from rocket attacks since the 50-day war in 2014 . One was killed when his vehicle was hit by a Kornet anti-tank missile near the Gaza border . <p> The Israeli military had no immediate comment on an airstrike that killed six civilians , including a 12-year-old boy and an infant , when it destroyed a five-story apartment block in the northern Gaza Strip town of Beit Lahiya . The Gaza public works ministry said 130 housing units were destroyed by Israeli airstrikes . <p> Egyptian mediators had been working with the U.N . to broker a cease-fire . Under past Egyptian-brokered deals , Israel has agreed to ease its joint blockade of Gaza with Egypt in exchange for a halt to rocket fire . <p> The latest fighting broke out after Palestinian militants accused Israel of not honouring an earlier cease-fire deal from March and opened fire on soldiers on the Israeli side of the Gaza frontier . <p> The terms of the latest deal were not known , but recent cease-fires have been short-lived . <p> In weary communities in southern Israel , there was criticism that the latest round of fighting had ended without tangible results -- and no hope that it would not recur soon . <p> " When we have the upper hand , we need once and for all to finish the terror because this will repeat itself and will not stop , " said Jacque Mendel , a resident of the coastal city of Ashdod , where a man was killed in his car by a rocket Sunday night . <p> Israel appears to have little appetite for another prolonged conflict . Later this week , the country marks Memorial Day , one of the most solemn days of the year , followed by the festive Independence Day . Next week , Israel is to host the popular Eurovision song contest , and the fighting could have deterred visitors . <p> Netanyahu , who recently secured re-election in part thanks to the votes of the rocket-battered residents along the Gaza Strip frontier , has traditionally been cautious in his handling of Gaza , for fear of sparking an open-ended war with no clear endgame . But he is under pressure from the same electorate and his potential coalition partners appear to favour a more hard-line approach to Gaza . <p> Even within his own ruling Likud Party , Netanyahu faced unusual criticism for not going further to quash Gaza militants . <p> Likud lawmaker Gideon Saar wrote on Twitter that the reported cease-fire was not an achievement for Israel . " The timeframes between these violent attacks on Israel and its citizens are getting shorter and the terror groups in Gaza are getting stronger between them , " he wrote . <p> Benny Gantz , Israel 's emerging opposition leader , also criticized Netanyahu , saying that ending the current round amounted to " another surrender to the extortion of Hamas and the terror organizations . " <p> In Gaza , a year of Hamas-led protests along the Israeli frontier against the blockade that has ravaged the economy has yielded no tangible benefits . In March , Hamas faced several days of street protests over the dire conditions . <p> Still , Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh said late Sunday that the militant group was " not interested in a new war , " and the start on Monday of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan likely lessened motivation for battle . <p> Signs of normal life slowly returned to Gaza , with banks opening after three days . Schools are to reopen on Tuesday . <p> EDMONTON - The Alberta Opposition says Premier Jason Kenney 's United Conservatives have a new " sugar daddy " in Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and should not accept a federal COVID-19 wage subsidy the party has applied for.NDP finance critic and MLA for Lethbridge-West Shannon Phillips says Kenney and his colle ... <p> LETHBRIDGE , AB - Take Lethbridge News Now on the go anytime , anywhere - now available on Spotify , Apple Podcasts , and Soundcloud.The Daily with LNN is a podcast-style news update , detailing some of the local , regional , and national stories we have been working on.Lethbridge News Now * The Daily with LNN - May 28 ... <p> LETHBRIDGE , AB - Lethbridge Police Service ( LPS ) is asking for the public 's help.On Monday , May 25 at approximately 9:48 pm , Lethbridge Fire and Emergency Services were called to an alley on the 600 block of 3 Ave South on reports of a fire in a waste/recycling bin.When firefighters arrived , they found a small fire nex ... 
@@51720873 <p> Canada has become an increasingly popular destination for international students . In fact , the international student population in Canada has more than tripled in the last 10 years . <p> Many of these students arrive from the Middle East and North Africa ( MENA ) . <p> Of the total number of international students in Canada , there are over 36,000 from the following MENA countries : <p> Algeria <p> Bahrain <p> Egypt <p> Iran <p> Iraq <p> Jordan <p> Kuwait <p> Lebanon <p> Libya <p> Morocco <p> Oman <p> Palestine ( Gaza and the West Bank ) <p> Qatar <p> Saudi Arabia <p> Sudan <p> Syria <p> Tunisia <p> United Arab Emirates <p> Yemen <p> An advantage MENA students may have over some of the other international students is their language ability , since English is taught in most MENA countries . In addition , many North African students are fluent in French , placing them in the ideal position to study at French-speaking institutions in provinces such as Quebec and New Brunswick , and cities such as Ottawa and Sudbury . <h> Why Canada is a great option for MENA students <p> Receive a quality education <p> Canada boasts some of the best universities in the world , with three in the top 100 : The University of Toronto , McGill University and the University of British Columbia . With this in mind , it 's no wonder that many MENA students choose Canada . <p> Pay affordable tuition <p> Unlike in the United States and other popular study destinations , you do n't have to break the bank to study in Canada . You do pay a little more than Canadians as an international student but the international fees are still much lower than in other countries . <p> Study and work <p> Not only is tuition affordable , you can also work while you study . Typically , you 'll be allowed to work for up to 20 hours a week during the semester , and full time during scheduled breaks . <p> It is important to remember that Canada is bilingual . If you speak English or French , you 'll settle in easily . Canada famously welcomes thousands of immigrants every year from all over the world . Because of this , Canada is very diverse and you 'll be exposed to many different cultures . In fact , it is estimated that 51% of the population of Toronto were born outside Canada . <p> This means that students unable to arrive to Canada in time for the fall 2020 semester can begin their Canadian educational program online , and not have time deducted from the length of their PGWP as long as they arrive to Canada by December 31 , 2020 . <p> You will still be eligible for the PGWP even if you arrive to Canada in 2021 , although time outside of Canada in 2021 will result in a shorter PGWP length . <p> A longer PGWP duration is preferable since it gives MENA students more time to obtain the Canadian work experience that they need to become eligible for more of Canada 's immigration programs , which sometimes require that an immigration candidate have such work experience to be eligible for the given program . <p> Implied status : Students and graduates who are already in Canada with expired visas may continue to work provided they have applied for an extension . <p> Canada is helping international students during the coronavirus pandemic <p> Canada understands the importance of international students to its society and economy , and has therefore decided to help students impacted by COVID-19 . The following are a number of ways the Canadian government are supporting international students : <p> Working hours : Students may be able to work for up to 40 hours per week in certain sectors . <p> Canada Emergency Response Benefit ( CERB ) : The CERB offers $500 per week for 16 weeks to eligible international students <h> Step-by-step guide to study in Canada if you 're from the MENA region <p> Step 1 : Select a program at a university , college or other learning institution . <p> A study permit is a document that allows MENA students to legally study in Canada . You must apply with your letter of acceptance from the designated learning institution , and prove that you have enough funds to cover the first year of tuition . You must also be admissible to Canada , and you may be required to submit a police background check or a medical . <h> Study in Canada this fall <p> Canada embraces international students from some 200 different countries , and MENA students can find a home in Canada . There are many benefits to study in Canada from the MENA region , and Canada is doing its part to welcome international students from the MENA region and all corners of the globe in time for the fall 2020 semester. 
@@51725256 <h> The University of Toronto , standing on the wrong side of history <p> On October 27 , students gathered at the Ontario Institute for Studies in Education ( OISE ) to discuss and debate how U of T 's investment practices are complicit in human rights abuses and violations of international law . Most of those in attendance came to hear fellow students and academics share information about the situation in Palestine , and what could be done -- but not all of them . <p> An off-campus hate group attended the event to launch a direct attack on academic debate and freedom of speech . Rather than stand up for these core principles on campus , the university took actions that supported this group . <p> In 2005 , close to 200 Palestinian civil society organisations called on international allies to support them in launching Boycott , Divestment , Sanctions ( BDS ) , a campaign to achieve basic universal human rights . BDS is aimed at pressuring Israel to halt blatant violations of international law , such as the continuous construction of Israeli settlements on occupied Palestinian territory , the on-going destruction of Palestinian homes , and restrictions on Palestinian freedom of movement . Thousands of international civil society organisations have heeded this call , including student unions across North America and Europe . In 2012 , the University of Toronto Graduate Students ' Union ( UTGSU ) , representing over 15,000 students , joined the campaign . Earlier this year the Ontario Canadian Federation of Students , representing 300,000 students across the province , also voted to support the campaign . <p> BDS is one of the few tools we have to express our support for Palestinians facing military blockades , dispossession of land , and indiscriminate attacks by the Israeli military . The campaign makes these issues local and asks institutions like ours to withdraw investments from companies complicit in these abuses . Our university has substantial investments in three corporations -- Hewlett Packard , Lockheed Martin , and Northrop Grumman -- that directly support the Israeli military 's illegal occupation of Palestinian land . These companies have aided the Israeli military through the sale of hellfire missiles , bomber jets , and information technologies that facilitate the continued land , air , and sea blockade of Gaza , which contains nearly two million residents . <p> At the end of last month , the UTGSU formally launched a campaign called U of T Divest , which urged our university to divest from these companies . The message is simple : students ' money should not support war crimes . This is hardly a controversial position , and it is one supported by millions of students around the world . Even our colleagues in the Ivy League down south are recognising the importance of the campaign , with a growing BDS movement at Princeton . More broadly , the campaign paves the way for the university to adopt ethical investment practices with all of its funds . <p> The campaign 's growth and popularity has led to a backlash from university administration . These have ranged from bureaucratic efforts to thwart campus organizing -- such as blocking pro-Palestinian student groups from booking meeting spaces -- to more recently providing de facto support and cover for known hate groups . One such group calls itself the " Jewish Defense League " ( JDL ) . The JDL is a hate group banned in the United States and , ironically , banned from participating in Israeli politics because of its blatantly racist positions . Its litany of abuses is too long to list , but one extreme example is when a JDL member massacred 29 Muslims kneeling in prayer at a West Bank mosque . The JDL described the killings as a " preventative measure . " <p> On October 27 , the JDL deliberately disrupted the BDS campaign launch event by hurling racial epithets at students and visiting speakers , accosting student organisers and attendees , and refusing to exit the room even after being granted time and space to air their vile rhetoric . They went on to accuse anyone who sought their removal from the premises of being supporters of " dirty Arab terrorism " and those who " want to throw acid in the faces of unveiled women . " They also claimed that any " white " supporters of the BDS campaign must have been born with mental disabilities . <p> We only wish this was the most disturbing aspect of the evening . <p> Event organizers followed university policy to the letter , giving disrupters three opportunities to cease their disturbances after which they were asked to leave the event . They refused . Again according to the university 's own policies on the disruption of meetings , the university should have then found us an alternative safe space in order to continue the meeting . It did not . Instead , the university played directly into the hands of the disrupters and called for the event to be cancelled without explanation . The JDL were permitted to remain on the premises for over an hour while countless students and faculty were forced to wait in the building 's foyer . With the help of supportive faculty , we were able to secure another room where the event continued . <p> Through its actions , the university was complicit in supporting a known hate group . In light of this , we are forced to ask whether the university can stand by its claim to foster an environment conducive to " tolerance and mutual respect " in which " radical prescriptions for social ills can be debated . " <p> In their official response to concerns aired separately by faculty who were present that evening , the university claims to " recognise that there are strong views on our campuses " which " may be discomfiting or even offensive to some . " The problem with this is that the JDL is not representative of campus views ; and this is not simply a case of one perspective drowning out others . What occurred is nothing less than a student-organized event being disrupted by an off-campus hate group . The university 's actions raise serious questions about its ability to follow its own policies aimed at ensuring student safety on campus . <p> There can not be any tolerance for bigots who seek to bully and intimidate students that engage in academic debate and freedom of speech . Moreover , the university conduct continues to silence voices calling for basic human rights for Palestinians and adherence to international law . <p> What happened on the evening of October 27 is symptomatic of events occurring on campuses in Canada and around the world . The mainstream popularity of the movement has left defenders of Israel and university administrators scrambling for new tools to shut down debate , organizing , and action calling for social justice . <p> In spite of these attacks , the U of T Divest campaign will continue . Though stunned by the complacency demonstrated by our university administration , we remain steadfast and stand in solidarity with the student unions at Ryerson and York , who have endorsed the BDS campaign . <p> We hope that when you -- students , staff , faculty , and alumni -- visit www.UofTdivest.com you will sign the petition in support of the divestment campaign . <p> Three decades ago , U of T was one of the last Canadian universities to divest from apartheid South Africa . When it finally did , the walls of apartheid had already begun to crumble . The university was ultimately on the right side of history , though just barely . When it comes to Palestine , will the university be able to say the same thing ? Maybe . But it will be up to us to make them . <p> Chris Webb is a PhD student in the Department of Geography . <p> Omar Sirri is a PhD student in the Department of Political Science . Both are members of the UTGSU BDS Ad Hoc Committee . <p> AD <h> Get ready to work for free <p> Governor of the Bank of Canada Stephen Poloz leaves students bewildered at the prospect of unpaid work in the future <p> Earlier this month , Stephen Poloz , the Governor of the Bank of Canada , sparked national outrage when he suggested that unemployed Canadian youth would do well to seek out unpaid work in order to avoid the negative effects of unemployment . During a news conference after his speech to the House of Commons , Poloz advised Canadians to " get some real-life experience even though you 're discouraged , even if it 's for free . If your parents are letting you live in the basement , you might as well go out and do something for free to put the experience on your CV , " as reported in the Toronto Star . <p> Detractors spanning the political spectrum from across the country hammered Poloz for the comments and for the governor 's stance on unpaid internships , in which he glosses over concerns with regards to the efficacy and ethics of unpaid work . <p> What is most immediately alarming about Poloz 's statement , and most deserving of criticism , is the outrageousness of these comments coming from someone in his position and what they necessarily indicate for the future of Canadian youth . The content of the message alone is enough to rattle young people entering the job market , but it is what Poloz 's comments imply about the foreseeable future that is causing the most concern . <p> Since the 2008 financial crisis , central banks worldwide have taken on a significant role in the path towards economic recovery , which includes keeping up the public 's confidence . Central bank statements therefore often include predictions : messages of hope for the future . It is alarming then that Poloz 's most recent comments are devoid of the usual optimism . <p> The difficulties of finding employment and competing for higher education will continue to plague young Canadians for some time to come . Monetary policy and low rates , which will now be slowed down , have not , and will not , solve our employment issues . The fundamental causes of youth unemployment are much more deeply engrained and more broadly dispersed than the recession . <p> When Liberal MP Scott Brison asked Poloz if he thought unpaid internships have greater benefits for wealthier youth , Poloz said : " I was n't trying to go deeply in this and it 's not a monetary policy matter . " Now that Poloz feels that he has stabilized the economy and secured jobs for the majority of core taxpayers , he can muse on half-baked solutions to what he perceives as minor issues . <p> The uninterested and patronizing way in which he proposed a solution to the endemic unemployment of Canada 's emerging workforce indicates the extent to which he does n't think about the problem . Even though it is not simply a matter of monetary policy , Poloz 's inability to defend his response shows that he does not take responsibility for the economic well-being of Canada 's youth . <p> If he actually cared , he would have called on the standing committee of legislatures he was speaking with , people who are actually responsible for the matter , to pass laws to assist with youth unemployment . It is baffling that he can be so callous and apathetic when painting youth as basement dwellers that should work for free . <p> The sad truth is that he should care . With every passing year that youth can not find jobs , Canada 's work force -- which is already in peril as the baby boomers retire in droves -- gets weaker . A vibrant youth contingent is an integral part of a successful economy and is the surest path to overall economic recovery . Young earners will consume a fair deal ; they will buy homes , cars , and start families . It is a travesty , not to mention dangerous , for our generation not to receive more support . <p> Instead , we still have 200,000 young Canadians looking for work . Many more are working part-time to cover debt , and thousands more are currently in school pursuing expensive degrees in hopes of becoming more employable . These students are " looking for employment " -- which by definition means trading hours of your life for monetary compensation , which they will then use to live . <p> This is not to say that unpaid internships are not valuable , or that the jarring effects of unemployment are not real . But these young Canadians are no longer looking for , and can no longer afford , unpaid opportunities on their r ? sum ? -- they already have enough of those . <p> Further , Ali Hamandi 's opinion piece in the Toronto Star suggests that those with unpaid experience are actually less employable than their paid peers . <p> Poloz 's statement then raises the question : if there is enough demand for Canada 's unemployed youth to take on these unpaid jobs , then how is it that companies can not pay them to take on all these vacant positions ? The answer is likely that these positions do not actually exist . <p> If these positions do exist , companies will take advantage of free labour to lessen their workloads . Most companies are not actively looking for free labour unnecessarily . They do n't need Poloz to give them the " okay " to take on free labour ; they need to be coaxed into hiring more paid youth . <p> Canada 's leaders need to take youth employment seriously , and not mindlessly promote potentially precarious solutions . Effective policies do exist and can be extended . For example , existing government subsidies and programs have been effective in creating paid jobs for youth . Canadian youth do need to make difficult decisions , and their prospects are not as bright as their parents ' -- but we need support and we can not simply settle for unpaid work . Poloz 's statements have helped youth in one area : he put the issue on the agenda . Hopefully more people , with better ideas , will take notice . <p> Christian Medeiros is a third-year student at Trinity College specializing in international relations . <h> Is social media an appropriate forum for debate ? <h> Ranting on social media is n't only ineffective , but inappropriate <p> Rarely do any of us , when updating our statuses or composing a new tweet , take the time to go over our dialogue and edit -- and I 'm not talking about making sure you 've used the correct " there . " <p> Rather , editing for bigotry , insensitivity , and just plain offensive content is often an afterthought , if the status or tweet receives any attention at all . <p> Unfortunately , sites like Twitter , Facebook , and Instagram are optimized for users ' convenience , making it easier to share thoughts and feelings online in the spur of the moment . This convenience , however , comes at a price . In our hasty posting , we do n't realize the often negative repercussions these comments can have in the future . <p> Take for instance former Sportsnet commentator Damian Goddard , who was fired after tweeting his opposition to same-sex marriage . Or , more recently , Jian Ghomeshi 's infamous Facebook post , where he detailed his firing from CBC due to his less than " palatable tastes in the bedroom . " With over 100,000 " likes " and more than 38,000 comments , Ghomeshi 's post catalyzed the online community to throw in their two cents over social media as to whether or not the CBC was justified in firing the radio host . <p> The point is , when posting your opinions on social media , especially when responding to sensitive issues like sexual assault in the case of Ghomeshi , you have to base your comments on facts -- something many people forgo in their haste to comment . <p> Without facts , it 's hard to form a respectable or informed opinion on a subject , as you have no evidence to back it up . When you rant in a tweet or status update , you come across as biased , or worse . <p> Rants have the habit of coming off as spontaneous and emotionally charged , making them unsuitable media for voicing your opinion . The use of all caps , emojis , interrobangs , and expletives has the effect of delegitimizing an argument . Rants are the domain of amateurs and are fraught with issues of credibility and honesty . <p> This is n't a condemnation of those who post their opinions on social media ; in fact , I absolutely encourage people to voice their opinions via these networks . When done properly , an educated , well thought-out opinion is able to spark critical debate about important issues . However , these kinds of debates are rarely initiated and usually give way to senseless and barbed opining lacking real information . <p> Before posting that rant on social media , take a few seconds to consider three cardinal rules of the Internet . The first , whatever you post is fair game for the public . Second , your online posts can be used against you -- employers frequent social media sites in the hiring process . Last , but not least , if you post something particularly bigoted or inflammatory , it can , and will , go viral . So if you 're about to tweet or post , make sure you think before you click . <p> Emma Kikulis is an associate comment editor at The Varsity . She is studying sociology and English . <h> Despite the prevalence of spontaneous comment , there is good debate taking place online <p> In the day and age of the Internet , where news is only a few clicks away , it follows that debate is just as easily accessible , especially on social media . <p> Of particular timeliness to this topic is the case of Jian Ghomeshi , who has recently been accused of abusing several women , resulting in his dismissal from the CBC . The circumstances of Ghomeshi 's conduct and subsequent firing have been discussed ad nauseam online with voices from all sides chiming in over social media . <p> But is Facebook or Twitter the right place to condemn someone like Ghomeshi as the ultimate scum of the earth or to cast aspersions on his accusers ? The Internet has gained a reputation for being a cesspool of social commentary , and yet , believe it or not , there is actually worthwhile debate taking place in some corners . <p> There is a marked difference in the conduct and tone of online discussions depending on where you look . <p> Sites like Twitter and Facebook can not be relied upon for informed or well-researched commentary , but there is often insight and substance to the debates taking place on sites like Reddit . <p> Many of the top-rated comments surrounding Ghomeshi-gate on Reddit reflect honest beffudlement over a lack of useful information . Whereas others hastily took to tweeting and posting their unsolicited opinions , Reddit users would seem to be less quick to jump the gun with their thoughts . <p> This is not to say that the Reddit community is n't weighing in on contemporary debates and social issues . There are well-informed positions on a wide range of topics from many of the site 's users , something other sites lack entirely . <p> If you search through Facebook and Twitter , you may also find some of your friends or some of the people you follow are able to have balanced discussions on the topic . <p> There is some degree of exaggeration in calling posts on Twitter and Facebook useless . Sure , we all have those Facebook friends that post ridiculous and misinformed commentary -- but we also have several friends who are open to serious discussions . While my experience may not be representative of all posts on sites like Facebook and Twitter , it does prove that there is room for effective debate through social media . <p> Aside from the comment sections on online articles , there is no way to comment directly on the news , and there is still no easy way of directly refuting the source of information . On social media , there is room for dynamic arguments complete with solid points and counterpoints that may just shift your opinion . <p> Hopefully , an increase in accountability will encourage users to do their research . <p> Simon Spichak is a second-year student at New College studying neuroscience . <h> It 's time to stop grade deflation <p> If you told the average student at the University of Toronto that there is no such thing as a bell curve here , they would laugh . <p> U of T makes this claim by adopting a rigid definition of bell curving that permits instructors to " calibrate " or " adjust " grades but not curve them . This is a distinction without a difference . There 's only a difference if you do n't want to admit that your grading policy is deeply problematic . <p> U of T prioritizes institutional success over student success by forcing students into boxes instead of assessing them properly . The university operates on a system of quotas , where professors are encouraged to hand out a certain number of As , Bs , and Cs and always stick to a class average hovering around a C + . A bell curve is good for lazy or incompetent instructors who create unfair assessments . <p> It 's bad for students because it causes massive stress while writing tests , and then leaves them with less knowledge . After all , you can change a grade from a 40 to a 60 per cent , but the student wo n't magically understand that 20 per cent of material . <p> Giving out too many As requires professors to rock the boat . So if they 're tenured and feel incredibly passionate about it , they might . Though most do n't . <p> It 's a time-consuming process and it 's easier to hand out the expected grades and move on . <p> For untenured faculty , part-time instructors , or teaching assistants , the pressures to simply hand out grades in their allotted divisions , regardless of what grades students deserve , are even greater . <p> Bell curving and quotas are important because they hint at a larger problem -- grade deflation . <p> While other universities manipulate their grades , they mostly tend to do so as a way of inflating marks . In 2013 , the most common grade at Harvard Univerity was an A , and the average grade was an A- . <p> In October , Princeton University eliminated their decade-long grade deflation policy after failing to meet the target of only giving out As 35 per cent of the time -- 43 per cent of 2013 grades were As . This is roughly in line with the average at private colleges in the US . Indeed , a 2010 study found that the nationwide average GPA at private colleges was 3.3 on a 4.0 scale . <p> Even within Canada , U of T 's grades are particularly low . A 2006 study found that students at UTSC got lower grades on average than counterparts at Carleton University or Ryerson University due to marking , not ability . While four per cent of UTSC students reported getting mostly As , 10 per cent of Carleton and Ryerson students reported the same . At UTSC , two-thirds of students reported mostly B-s or less , compared to 55 per cent of Ryerson and Carleton students . <p> The problem was bad enough that then-President David Naylor instituted an aggressive overhaul of the grading system responding to the concern that U of T students were struggling to get into graduate school at U of T as a factor . <p> Naylor 's overhaul may well have led to some progress , but it 's happened behind closed doors . U of T does n't release average annual grades , or the most common grade , or even the grade distribution . <p> I believe that grades at U of T are lower and that getting high grades at U of T is harder than at other Canadian universities . <p> U of T should follow the lead of the elite American institutions it tries to compete with and reveal its grading data . It 's been nearly a decade since Naylor set out to reform U of T 's rampant grade deflation . It 's time to see if any progress has been made . <p> Zane Schwartz is a fourth-year history student who contributes to the Globe and Mail and Macleans . He was The Varsity 's news editor last year . His column appears bi-weekly . <p> AD <h> The death of innovation ? <p> Innovation is rapidly declining . One only needs to glance at the University of Toronto 's recent decrease in institutional research income from last year as proof of this fact . When compounded with the increasing number of students enrolling every year , U of T is wandering down a path that will inevitably see the institution dropping from the often-cited World University Rankings in short order . <p> Take it from someone who 's worked in other labs in Europe and Africa : I am well aware that researchers at U of T are under stricter time constraints when it comes to publishing scientific results than its international peers -- limited research funding requires that publishing take place within a year . <p> Eager to start , researchers venture into gaining the latest insights , with one problem : the renowned scientists they need to consult do n't want to cooperate -- the details of their experiments and recent breakthroughs are patented information . <p> ANN SHENG/THE VARSITY <p> This reveals the greedy and self-serving side of patenting institutions that are primarily concerned with maximizing institutional income and monopolizing the utility of their research -- the results of which can feature heavily in addressing the world 's challenges including cancer and global warming . This culture of educational " individuality " inevitably repels fresh minds seeking to build original ideas on the existing research framework . The result is that researchers lower their standards by optimizing existing results in order to graduate , rather than pursuing their own innovative projects . Such is the case at U of T. <p> The above argument shows how decreases in research funding at U of T hinder research efforts and foster a culture of individuality , which kills innovation . This is not the only threat to an innovative scientific community on campus , however , our subconscious attitudes and values are also eroding our capacity for breakthrough . <p> Previous innovations such as the toilet , refrigeration , and the Small Pox vaccine revolutionized the world in the twentieth century . However , today 's diverse entrepreneurial innovations such as Facebook , Android , and the Xbox 360 have n't tackled many problems , except for boredom , perhaps . <p> The disappointing result is that this generation 's concentrated efforts have not , and may never , solve the tremendous challenges of our time . <p> Instead of facing today 's challenges head-on , similar to previous generations , we have chosen to rebuild the infrastructures to empower the coming generations to contest these problems because these problems are literally too complex to tackle directly . Better tools are needed before feasible solutions can be attained . <p> Hence , the innovation of this generation is around building these tools , not contemplating the end results . We could call it an infrastructural innovation , but it 's no less important than the grand innovations of the past . U of T should be at the vanguard in changing this system . <p> Sam Henry is a second-year student pursuing a master 's of applied science at the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering . <p> AD <h> Potential for TA strike looms <p> Teaching assistants ( TAs ) and course instructors who are members of Canadian Union of Public Employees ( CUPE ) 3902 Units 1 and 5 recently voted to give the union strike mandates following a series of unfruitful negotiations with the university . <p> CUPE 3902 represents about 8,000 academic employees at the University of Toronto who work on contracts of one year or less . <p> The vote for Unit 1 , which represents students and postdocs employed as TAs , course instructors , or in other academic capacities , saw a record-high turnout of 1,723 people , with 90.3 per cent of votes in favour of the move , as reported on the union 's website on November 11 . <p> The vote for Unit 5 , which represents internally funded postdocs employed as researchers , saw a turnout of 179 people , with 81 per cent voting in favour of the move . <p> Though the vote does n't guarantee a strike immediately , the union can now legally call a strike at any time . <p> The implications of a potential strike are causing tensions between students , instructors , and the administration . <p> For the union , the primary goal of negotiations has been to seek wage increases to match inflation , and increases to benefits . <p> The union is also seeking tuition credits or waivers at U of T , as well as changes to university hiring policy . The TAs ' funding package has been frozen since 2008 . <p> According to Ryan Culpepper , vice-chair of CUPE 3209 Unit 1 , the university has disagreed with every major proposal the union has brought forward and has given less than half of the bargaining dates from previous years . <p> For Culpepper , this inflexibility is as unacceptable as it is unprecedented . " To my knowledge , this round of bargaining marks the first time the university has come to the bargaining table demanding a total compensation freeze on Day One of negotiations , " Culpepper says . <p> Students and teachers <p> According to Culpepper , master 's and PhD students at U of T are awarded minimum funding of $15,000 per year for five years . The university may require graduate level students to work up to 205 hours under this funding package . <p> Beyond these hours , TAs are paid at an hourly rate that is negotiated by CUPE 3902 . <p> Currently , the negotiated earnings are $42.05 per hour at an average of 5 hours per week . <p> Culpepper told The Varsity that course instructors and TAs at the university have been unionized for 41 years , and have opened negotiations with the university 18 times since 1973 . <p> These negotiations have led to three strikes , with the latest one occurring in 2001 . <p> Effect on undergraduate students <p> A strike by CUPE 3902 would impact students who rely on TAs and course instructors for grading , office hours , tutorials , exam invigilation , and lectures . <p> According to Culpepper , a strike would mean the cancellation of all these aspects of work including the potential cancellation of some classes . <p> If a strike were to occur , it is likely that there would be picket lines that may result in some buildings being closed . <p> Students are concerned that these actions would unfairly target learners who benefit from union members ' work . <p> Anna McNeil , a third-year kinesiology student , said that she does n't think students should be penalized for any failed negotiations . " Their problem does not have to do with the students , but with the institution of University of Toronto , and they should find a better way to come to an agreement , " McNeil says . <p> McKenzie Embree , an upper-year environmental studies and political science student , echoes McNeil 's concerns , adding that she thinks it is greedy for instructors to exert this position . " I think that the TAs already receive more than they give by breaking down their wages to $42.05 per hour and benefits . They are ... trying to use the fact that they can control our future by putting our education in the balance , " Embree says . <p> TA SPEAKS Out <p> Craig Smith , a PhD candidate in the Department of Political Science and a TA for POL208 , Introduction to International Relations , thinks that the motivation for the strike vote came down to negotiating in good faith . " The purpose of the initial strike vote is to change the bargaining dynamics at the table , " Smith says , adding : " If the university bargained in good faith , none of this would have to happen . It 's in nobody 's interest to shut down the university . " <p> Smith says that , as a TA , he does not want to jeopardize any learning opportunities for his students , but says that the university has put instructors in a tight situation . " It 's terrible that in every bargaining round they have to test the solidarity of the union , and test our willingness to put our students in the middle of this , " he explains . <p> Smith adds that he -- like most TAs -- loves his teaching position . " Most people who I know are doing this because they are passionate about the areas that they teach in , and they love to teach , " Smith says . <p> According to Angela Hildyard , U of T vice-president of human resources and equity , U of T offers TAs a greater level of support than peer institutions such as McGill University or the University of British Columbia . <p> Hildyard remained optimistic that negotiations will continue and that a strike will not be necessary . " The parties have had a series of negotiation sessions which the university hopes to continue . Its goal remains to arrive at a renewal collective agreement that is reasonable considering all the interests at stake , one of which is to be responsive to the Ontario Government 's stated position that there be no net increases in compensation in broader public sector settlements , " she says . <p> Smith emphasized that TAs are often an integral part of the learning process for U of T students . " For most students , TAs do the majority of the teaching . For the university to put those people in a precarious situation , I do n't understand their interest in doing that , " he says . <p> Smith adds that the motivation to get involved transcends direct rewards for many TAs and becomes a matter of political importance . " The reason that departments that are more political are so turned on to this stuff is because we realize that none of the gains that we have now would have been possible without solidarity and mobilization in the past , " he says . <p> The current collective agreement expired on April 30 , 2014 . <p> Correction:The TA wage rate is $42.05/hour , not $45/hour as was incorrectly stated . <p> AD <h> " Women suffer disproportionately " <p> Mosaic Institute event highlights women in armed conflict <p> The summit addressed issues affecting women in war and conflict . EMMA COMPEAU/THE VARSITY <p> " Women suffer disproportionately , " began Augusta Waldie , co-president of UofMosaic@UofT at the Women &amp; Armed Conflict Citizen Summit , presented by The Mosaic Institute on November 15 , 2014 . <p> The day-long event offered a space for students to discuss issues affecting women in armed conflict . <p> Waldie says that discussions surrounding sexual assault and gender-based violence have recently exploded on campus , creating a framework for students to think about justice on a global scale . " It is our hope that students will expand their interest and their pursuit of justice to an international context and work with us to ease the suffering of women trapped by armed conflicts , " Waldie says . <p> Illana Landsberg-Lewis , who currently serves as the executive director of the Stephen Lewis Foundation , an organization dedicated to combating HIV/AIDS in Africa , spent eight years working for the UN Development Fund for Women ( UNIFEM ) . During her time with UNIFEM , she was instrumental in the development and management of UNIFEM 's Trust Fund on Violence against Women . <p> Landsberg-Lewis discussed her time working at the United Nations , as well as issues surrounding gender violence as a weapon of war . <p> She focused on conflict in the Democratic Republic of Congo , which she describes as " one of the worst places in the world for women " -- where rape is normative and used to spread HIV/AIDS . <p> When asked if she feels hopeful in spite of the hardships she witnesses , Landsberg-Lewis says that the she " runs on outrage , " and that the women she works with give her hope . <p> Lee Maracle , traditional teacher at the University of Toronto 's First Nations House , also gave a talk on First Nations restorative justice and the Stolen Sisters . " Rape is not about sex , love , lust or the way you dress -- but about powering out on someone , " Maracle said during the discussion , adding : " Girls need to learn to fight back . " <p> Another member of the U of T community also spoke at the event : James Maskalyk , a physician and author who practices emergency medicine at St. Michael 's Hospital in Toronto . <p> Members of the UofMosaic , a network of campus-based chapters of The Mosaic Institute , discussed why it is important for students to care about global conflict issues . " Toronto is full of multi-cultural identities that are able to connect with these issues and should get involved , " says Abdi Hesi , a graduate student at U of T , adding : " Understanding international conflict can help people understand conflict in Canada between indigenous people and the government . " <p> Alawia Sherif , an undergraduate student at U of T , says that " one of the guiding values of Mosaic is creating an inter community dialogue between communities in conflict and to harness diversity in a way that creates a generation of global citizens . " <p> Waldie adds that UofMosaic@UofT is currently working with the International Campaign to Stop Rape and Gender Violence in Conflict to raise awareness about these global issues and create tangible change . <p> Concluding her keynote address at the Women &amp; Armed Conflict Citizen Summit , Landsberg-Lewis ' voice broke with tears as she told the audience that it is " so far past time to act . " <p> AD <h> Speakers announced for 2015 TEDxUofT conference <p> U of T event is titled " A Constellation of Insights " <p> The conference is scheduled for March 15 , 2015 . COURTESY OF PIERRE ROQUET <p> University of Toronto -- educated physician , Joshua Liu , created an app that aims to reduce patient readmission rates after a surgical procedure . <p> Liu , the co-founder and CEO of Seamless Mobile Health , is one of four speakers scheduled to speak at this year 's TEDxUofT , a community-organized branch of the global conference series . <p> The other speakers include Avis Glaze , an educational leader who has made it her mission to increase graduation rates among students with disadvantaged backgrounds ; Carmen Logie , an assistant professor at U of T 's Faculty of Social Work who researches health equity ; and Kang Lee , a professor at the Ontario Institute for Studies in Education who researches face processing and the development of lying . <p> The speakers were announced at the 2015 conference launch event on November 18 . <p> This year 's conference , titled " A Constellation of Insights , " is designed to connect spirits , ideas , and discoveries . <p> According to TEDxUofT chair and UTSC student Jeanny Yao , the conference will centre on connecting pieces of the global puzzle to give the audience a broader picture . <p> Nabhia Pasarcha , a launch event attendee , said the conference offers students an opportunity to engage with research that often goes unnoticed . " These speakers are people in the community that you are not really looking at , and this conference gives you a chance to see the people doing work behind the scenes , " says Pasarcha . <p> Amin Sharifi , TEDxUofT partnerships director , says the conference serves as both a learning experience and a networking opportunity . " There is a difference between watching a speaker online and listening to them in-person , " says Sharifi . <p> Attendance for the event is limited due to space constraints . Victoria Banderob , TEDxUofT social media executive , says that conference organizers plan to sell around 400 tickets . <p> According to Banderob , the conference is scheduled for March 15 , 2015. 
