<h> University of Windsor cut a deal with a pro-Palestinian encampment in July . What 's happened since ? <p> Justin H ? bert , head of the Jewish Students Association at the University of Windsor , answers questions about the current Israel/Gaza war during a tabling session on campus on Nov. 28 , 2024 . ( Submitted photo ) <p> It 's been nearly five months since officials at the University of Windsor signed what many observers describe as the most far-reaching agreement by any post-secondary school in Canada to meet the demands of pro-Palestinian students who erected protest encampments in the spring . In return , the Windsor student council and the so-called Liberation Zone protesters agreed in July to dismantle their encampment peacefully , with no academic penalties . <p> But the terms of the deal outraged Jewish leaders in the city and across the country : they felt it went too far , rewarded illegal activities , and ignored the trauma felt by the small group of Jewish students who attend Windsor and have long complained they have been the targets of campus antisemitism after Oct. 7 . While local Jewish leaders are still working on a legal challenge against the university , and some major philanthropists have cancelled their donations , the university has recently taken some steps to hear the concerns of Jewish students -- a Jewish advisor has just been hired , ( along with someone who will advise Palestinian students ) . Two links about antisemitism have been uploaded to the school 's new anti-oppression website . And the Jewish students club has just been invited to join a campus Parade of Nations event next semester . <p> So has the situation on campus actually improved at all for Jewish students ? Ellin Bessner traveled to Windsor recently to speak at a Jewish community event . On today 's episode of The CJN Daily , she interviews Justin H ? bert , a law student who heads the Jewish Students Association , Stephen Cheifetz , president of Windsor 's Jewish Federation , and Marion Zeller , the Federation 's new CEO . <p> Related links <p> Read more about professor Ira Cohen , the new Jewish Student Advisor appointed in Oct. 2024 , at the University of Windsor . <p> Why the University of Windsor offered a separate agreement for Jewish students after a deal to end the student Palestinian encampment in July contained widespread boycott of Israel and increased support for Gaza and Palestine , in The CJN . <p> Hear student Sydney Greenspoon and Jewish Federation chair Stephen Cheifetz explain why they will fight the University of Windsor 's deal with encampment protesters , from July 2024 , on The CJN Daily .
