<p> DEIR AL-BALAH , Gaza Strip ( AP ) -- More than 45,000 Palestinians have now been killed in the war in Gaza between Israel and Hamas militants , health officials in the embattled territory said Monday , as often-stalled ceasefire negotiations appeared to be gaining ground . <p> Qatar , Egypt and the United States have renewed efforts to broker a ceasefire deal in recent days , and Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz said Monday he believed negotiators are closer to a deal than at any time since the only previous truce , a week-long pause in November 2023 that saw 105 hostages released . <p> " We all estimate that an opportunity is being created following Hamas 's need to become more flexible , and I really hope we can advance to a practical stage in this process , " Katz said ahead of a closed-door session of the Foreign Affairs and Defense Committee . <p> Israel and the Lebanese militant group Hezbollah , a key Hamas ally , agreed to a ceasefire late last month . <p> Palestinian health officials updated the Gaza death toll to 45,028 . They said 106,962 others have been wounded since the war began , and warned that the true toll is higher because thousands of bodies are buried under rubble or in areas that medics can not access . <p> The ministry 's count does not distinguish between civilians and combatants , but it has said more than half of the fatalities are women and children . The Israeli military says it has killed more than 17,000 militants , without providing evidence . <p> The war is by far the deadliest round of fighting between Israel and Hamas , with the death toll amounting to roughly 2% of Gaza 's prewar population of about 2.3 million . <p> A family dies as another airstrike hits a shelter <p> More than 50 dead were brought to hospitals across the bombed-out territory over the past 24 hours , Gaza 's Health Ministry said . <p> Among the latest killed were 10 people , including a family of four , in an overnight Israeli strike in Gaza City 's eastern Shijaiyah neighborhood , Palestinian medics said . <p> Israel claims Hamas is responsible for the civilian death toll because it operates from within civilian areas in the densely populated Gaza Strip . Rights groups and Palestinians say Israel has failed to take sufficient precautions to avoid civilian deaths . <p> The war began when Hamas-led militants stormed into southern Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , killing some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and abducting another 250 . Israel responded by heavy bombardment and a ground incursion into the Palestinian enclave . Around 100 hostages are still inside Gaza , at least a third believed to be dead . Most of the rest were released during a ceasefire last year . <p> A separate strike on a school on Sunday in the southern city of Khan Younis killed at least 13 people , including six children and two women , according to Nasser Hospital , where the bodies were taken . The hospital initially reported the strike had killed 16 but later said three bodies had been from a separate strike . <p> Louise Wateridge , a spokeswoman for the United Nations relief agency for Palestinians , said she met with children injured in Sunday 's strike . They included a 17-year-old girl with a severe leg injury and shrapnel wounds . <p> She survived along with her twin sister and three other sisters , Wateridge said , but their mother was killed . Wateridge said one sister described " how their mother 's bones were crushed under the rubble . There was nothing they could do to save her . " <p> The Israeli military said it had struck Hamas fighters operating inside a command center embedded in a compound that had served as a school in Khan Younis . It did not provide evidence . <p> A Palestinian journalist is mourned <p> In central Gaza 's Nuseirat urban refugee camp , mourners gathered for the funeral of a Palestinian journalist working for the Qatari-based Al Jazeera TV network who was killed Sunday in a strike that hit Gaza 's civil defense agency . They carried his body through the streets , along with his bulletproof vest . <p> Al Jazeera said Ahmad Baker Al-Louh , 39 , had been covering rescue operations of a family wounded in an earlier bombing when he was killed . <p> The strike also killed three civil defense workers , including the local head of the agency , according to Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital . The civil defense is Gaza 's main rescue agency and operates under the Hamas-run government . <p> The International Federation of Journalists said last week that 104 journalists and media workers have been killed in 2024 , with more than half dying in Gaza . <p> The Israeli military said its strike targeted Hamas and Islamic Jihad militants in a command center embedded in the offices of the " Civil Defense " organization . It accused the journalist of having been a member of Islamic Jihad , which his colleagues in Gaza denied . <p> Gaza 's civil defense rejected the claims that militants operated from the site . <p> " We were stunned by the Israeli occupation statement , " Mahmoud al-Lawh , the journalist 's cousin , told The Associated Press . " These claims are lies and misleading to cover up this crime . "
