<p> Israel 's minister of diaspora affairs and combating antisemitism asked Pope Francis to clarify his remarks about the need to investigate whether the current war in Gaza constitutes a genocide . <p> " As a people who lost six million of their sons and daughters in the Holocaust , we are particularly sensitive to the trivialization of the term ' genocide ' -- a trivialization that comes dangerously close to Holocaust denial , " Amichai Chikli , the minister , said in an open letter addressed to Pope Francis and published by several news outlets Dec. 20 . The Italian newspaper , Il Foglio , published the entire letter online . <p> Chikli also criticized the pope 's presence at an event " echoing the Palestinian narrative , depicting Jesus as a Palestinian Arab . " <p> The event was Pope Francis meeting with the artisans , volunteers and government representatives responsible for the Christmas decorations in St. Peter 's Square and in the Paul VI Audience Hall Dec. 7 . <p> The Nativity scene in the square came from the island town of Grado , Italy , and showed Mary , Joseph and the empty crib in a traditional mud and thatch fishing hut found in northern Italy , while the scene in the audience hall was donated by people from Bethlehem and Palestinian authorities . It featured olive-wood statues of Mary , Joseph and the baby Jesus , who was lying on a white and black kaffiyeh , a Palestinian headdress . <p> Photos of the pope admiring the scene in the hall evoked criticism at the time by some commentators , saying the choice seemed to imply that Jesus was born a Palestinian rather than a Jew . Bethlehem , Jesus ' birthplace , is in Palestinian territory . <p> When the pope stopped to pray before the Bethlehem creche at the end of his general audience Dec. 11 , the baby Jesus statue and kaffiyeh-draped manger were gone . The Vatican press office offered no comment beyond a reminder that traditionally the baby is not placed in a Nativity scene until Christmas Eve . <p> " There is no other way to understand the decision to present ( Jesus ' ) image in a cradle , wrapped in a keffiyeh , " Chikli wrote . " It is a well-known fact that Jesus was born of a Jewish mother , lived as a Jew and died as a Jew . " <p> Had this " strange tribute " been an " isolated case , I would not have written this letter , " the minister wrote . <p> What drove him to write , he said , were remarks published a few weeks before with " an even more serious expression : you echoed a new accusation of genocide , insinuating that the state of Israel ' might ' be guilty of genocide in Gaza . " <p> An excerpt from the book , " Hope Never Disappoints : Pilgrims Toward a Better World , " written with the journalist Hern ? n Reyes Alcaide , was published Nov. 17 by Vatican News and other outlets , quoting the pope saying the international community should investigate whether Israel 's military actions in Gaza constitute genocide . <p> " According to some experts , what is happening in Gaza has the characteristics of genocide . It should be investigated carefully to determine whether it fits into the technical definition formulated by jurists and international bodies , " the pope said in the book . <p> Chikli wrote that the leading proponent " of this new charge against Israel is the human rights organization , Amnesty International , " which released a report Dec. 5 titled , " ' You Feel Like You Are Subhuman ' : Israel 's Genocide Against Palestinians in Gaza . " <p> " This is a desperate and disgusting attempt to rewrite history , " he wrote , accusing the report of claiming that Israel launched " an unprovoked attack on the Gaza Strip on Oct. 7 , 2023 . " The report , however , did not deny the attack while investigating Israel 's " military offensive launched in the wake of the deadly Hamas-led attacks , " it said . <p> Chikli wrote , " Israel did not launch any attack against Gaza ; quite the contrary . The terrorist organization Hamas , together with thousands of Gazans , launched a vicious attack against the southern region of Israel , " committing " horrific war crimes against humanity . " <p> " It is a right and a moral duty to fight evil , to fight the jihadist monsters of Hamas . It is puzzling that this has to be explained to the world , " he wrote . <p> In the letter , he described genocide as the attacks against the less than one percent of Germany 's unarmed Jewish population in the 1930s at a time when " there had been no violent conflict -- territorial , religious or political . " <p> " At Treblinka , 845,000 Polish Jews were murdered . This is what genocide means , " he wrote , adding that " The Vatican 's silence during those dark days of the Shoah is still deafening . " <p> The Israeli minister told the pope , " We know that you are a dear friend of the Jewish people ; this year alone , you have met with hostage families , wounded soldiers , rabbis and Jewish leaders from around the world . " <p> " We appreciate these efforts and wish to deepen the relationship between the Vatican and the state of Israel , as well as between the Christian and Jewish people , " he wrote , noting next year 's 60th anniversary of " Nostra Aetate , " the Second Vatican Council 's 1965 document on relations with other religions , which also ushered in a new era in Catholic-Jewish relations . <p> " Your guidance , actions and leadership have immense influence throughout the world , " the minister wrote . " For this reason , I kindly ask you to clarify your position regarding the new accusation of genocide against the Jewish state . " <h> Please support The Catholic Register <p> Unlike many media companies , The Catholic Register has never charged readers for access to the news and information on our website . We want to keep our award-winning journalism as widely available as possible . But we need your help . <p> For more than 125 years , The Register has been a trusted source of faith-based journalism . By making even a small donation you help ensure our future as an important voice in the Catholic Church . If you support the mission of Catholic journalism , please donate today . Thank you .
