<p> THIS is a deeply disturbing book about the far right and its manipulation of xenophobia , challenges that are all too prevalent in the contemporary context . <p> Greece has a long history of far-right violence , dating back to the Nazi occupation and the civil war that followed . While recognising the significance of these roots , though , this book focuses on more recent times , in the 21st century . <p> The author came to Greece as a journalist in 2015 , when the country was still devastated by the effects of austerity policies , triggered by the economic crisis of 2008 . This economic chaos gave many opportunities for the far-right " Golden Dawn " party to exploit , already , even before his arrival . <p> And then there was the " European refugee crisis " as people sought refuge from horrific violence at home , with the Greek islands of Lesbos and Chios among their first staging posts on their way towards western Europe.When Patrick Strickland first arrived , he was only too aware of the anti-refugee xenophobia and racism that remained rampant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ series of dispatches about the human impact of displacement , borders and fascism , a record of racist violence that the world should n't be permitted to forget . But this was only one side of the story . He was also writing a love letter to the people fighting the rise of fascism.You Can Kill Each Other After I Leave recounts the stories of those who resisted far-right violence as well as the stories of the perpetrators . The book 's strength comes from these personal accounts , from refugees and asylum-seekers from Afghanistan , Gaza , Iraq , Syria and elsewhere . Strickland enables them to tell their stories in their own words . And he bears witness to the deteriorating conditions in the camps to which they became confined , as government ( including Syriza/Leftist government ) policies hardened towards them , as the numbers grew.There are extremely distressing accounts of violence perpetrated by Golden Dawn activists and their supporters , including accounts of brutality that the author himself witnessed.Reporting instances of far-right violence was very dangerous , though . Journalists , especially photojournalists , were frequently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thugs were generally able to behave with impunity.All too often , the police were simply looking on , if not actively supporting the perpetrators , and even providing them with weapons . State collusion with the far right was a chilling , horrific forerunner of state collusion in other contexts , including Gaza and the West Bank , more recently.Although much of the book 's focus is on refugees and asylum-seekers , Strickland also recounts the stories of economic migrants , such as the Pakistanis who had come to mainland Greece in search of better livelihoods in the previous decade , only to encounter appalling exploitation and repression.As in the islands , at first , there had been Greeks who had provided support to the newcomers . Strickland describes the anarchist squats that developed in Athens and elsewhere as centres of resistance and solidarity.But as time went on resistance became increasingly problematic . Strickland is very critical of politicians from the left as well as the right , for their failures to intervene , let alone to develop humane policies in response . Eventually Golden Dawn activists were put on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organisation and party leaders were subsequently sentenced to 13 years in prison . While this was a cause for celebration , this was not the end of anti-migrant violence.As the author also points out , in 2023 , Greeks headed to the ballot box to cast their votes in the second round of that year 's general election . The rightist party , New Democracy , gained more than four out of 10 Greeks , with more than half voting for anti-migrant parties overall.Strickland concludes the book on a sober note . Violence continues , along with the prevalence of fascist conspiracy theories . But there are also grounds for hope . " We work together , we live together , " anti-fascists chanted on a demonstration that he witnessed when he returned to Greece in 2024 . " Locals and migrants , smash the fascists . " <p> This book is n't always easy to follow . The narrative shifts from place to place , following different stories over time . Nor is this a deeply analytical account , let alone a Marxist-Leninist account.The author clearly recognises the significance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's economic plight in the wake of the crisis of 2008 . Other factors also gain a mention , with references to the potential interests of the US in the region , during the dispute with what is now called Northern Macedonia . The name was extremely controversial with Greek nationalists , including the far right , claiming that " Macedonia " could only be used to refer to the north-west of Greece . But such wider issues are not fully explored.Rather , the book 's strengths lie in the vivid accounts of people 's experiences of far-right violence along with the author 's accounts of popular resistance , and humanity . The wider implications are only too relevant .
