<p> HUNDREDS of campaigners have written to Wales Netball , urging its backing in the call for the removal of the Israeli Netball team from the Euro Netball competition and any potential future competitions . <p> They have also written to Euro Netball calling for the exclusion of Israel from the competition , a copy has been sent to Welsh government Sports Minister Jack Sargeant MS , and sports committee chairman in the Senedd , Delyth Jewell MS . <p> The letters come following news that Wales plans to welcome the Israeli Netball team to play at the Cardiff City House of Sport for the Europe Netball Open event , between May 7-11 2025 , despite the rampage going on in Palestine . <p> Zahid Noor from Palestine Solidarity Campaign 's Cymru said : " Hosting Israel 's team sportswashes apartheid , illegal occupation and genocide . Netball Israel includes players from illegal settlements -- built on stolen Palestinian land . " Israel 's leaders have had arrest warrants issued by the International Criminal Court , and the International Court of Justice has ruled that Israel 's military conduct in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complicit in war crimes . " The matches must be cancelled , and Israel 's team must be suspended . Wales Netball has told us they are not the organisers of the event , and that they will keep a watch on any decision Euro Netball makes , but this is not good enough . They need to remove themselves from this tournament . Nothing about this complies with the Future Generations Act , which these bodies are bound by , and are signed up to supporting . " Israeli attacks killed scores of more people over the last couple of days , with far-right National Security Minister Itamar Ben-Gvir claiming that top US Republican lawmakers support bombing " food and aid depots " in Gaza . PSC Cymru said that given Israel 's refusal to listen to the calls of the international community to protect the human rights and lives of Palestinians in Gaza , " it was right that ... Israel 's participation in major international sporting events was reviewed . " Clive Haswell , co-chair of Cardiff PSC , said : " Apartheid in Israel is well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who are segregated and not allowed to participate in normal life , including sport . " A Plaid Cymru spokesperson said : " Plaid Cymru believes that suspension from international sporting competitions is a legitimate way to apply diplomatic pressure to states which violate international humanitarian law . This was the case when organisations such as Fifa , Uefa and the International Olympic Committee suspended Russia from their competitions , following Russia 's illegal invasion of Ukraine . " The Palestinian Campaign for the Academic and Cultural Boycott of Israel ( PACBI ) , a founding member of the Palestinian-led BDS movement , highlighted Israel Netball 's " direct involvement " in Israel 's war crimes and crimes against humanity , stating that nearly half of its teams were based in illegal Israeli settlements on stolen Palestinian land , a war crime under international law .
