<p> It also warned that since the collapse of the Hamas-Israel ceasefire in March " and in the past week in particular , Israeli attacks on Palestinians have accelerated . " <p> Israel 's constant displacement of Palestinian civilians in Gaza and its complete blockade of aid into the Strip has only exacerbated the situation , it said . " The Israeli military also continues targeting civilian objects indispensable to the survival of the civilian population , " the statement read . " Between April 21 and 22 , the Israeli military conducted deliberate and co-ordinated attacks across three governorates in Gaza , resulting in the destruction of 36 heavy machines , including excavators , water trucks and sewer suction tanks . " These were being used by Gaza municipalities for humanitarian relief operations , such as rubble removal , water distribution , and maintenance of vital sanitation systems . " The destruction of these vehicles is likely to significantly hinder rescue operations , including retrieval of the injured and killed from under the rubble , clearance of debris to allow the movement of ambulances , as well as delivery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operation of sewage systems -- further risking outbreaks of disease . " With food aid halted , remaining stocks in Gaza are rapidly depleting , rendering the strip 's population , especially vulnerable groups and children , at growing risk of starvation . " The World Food Programme ( WFP ) announced today that it has " delivered its last remaining food stocks to hot meals kitchens in the Gaza Strip . " These kitchens are expected to fully run out of food in the coming days , the WFP said . " No humanitarian or commercial supplies have entered Gaza for more than seven weeks as all main border crossing points remain closed , " it said . " This is the longest closure the Gaza Strip has ever faced , exacerbating already fragile markets and food systems . " More than 116,000 metric tons of food assistance -- enough to feed one million people for up to four months -- is positioned at aid corridors and is ready to be brought into Gaza by WFP and food security partners as soon as borders reopen . " Meanwhile , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in air and artillery strikes across Gaza today.Israel 's latest destruction of the Gaza Strip began in October 2023 , following Hamas 's mass killing and kidnapping spree in Israel that month . More than 1,130 people were killed and more than 200 were forcibly taken to Gaza . Gaza 's government puts the death toll from Israel 's genocidal rampage at over 61,700 people.Meanwhile , the Israeli military announced on Thursday night that it has received three of the 50 new Lockheed Martin fighter jets it has ordered from the US arms company .
