<p> ACTIVISTS from Youth Demand calling for a full trade embargo on Israel were arrested after disrupting today 's London Marathon . <p> Willow Holland from Bristol and Cristy North from Nottingham jumped over barriers and threw red powder paint in front of the men 's elite race as it crossed Tower Bridge . <p> The pair wore T-shirts reading : " Youth Demand : stop arming Israel . " <p> Beforehand Ms Holland said : " I am taking action with Youth Demand because I have run out of other options : thousands are being killed in Gaza , our government is making no effort to stop it and no other course of action , marches or rallies , has worked . " I refuse to be complicit in a genocide funded by our politicians . Profit should never be prioritised over basic decency , we 're taking action for human lives and human rights . " Ms North said : " We have tried all other avenues to get the government to stop arming Israel and yet our government is still enabling a genocide . " They are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by using our taxes to arm a genocidal state , breaking humanitarian international law . " A security motorcyclist grabbed the pair , pushing them to the floor at the side of the road moments before runners started to pass.London 's Metropolitan Police force said in a statement : " Marathon event staff intervened to remove the protesters from the path of the race . " He was quickly supported by police officers who arrested the protesters on suspicion of causing a public nuisance . They remain in custody . " The United Nations World Food Programme arm announced on Friday that its food stocks in Gaza have been completely depleted by Israel 's blockade . A Youth Demand spokesperson said : " This is a race against time : Gaza is running out of food . " Millions of starving Palestinians are being bombed with UK complicity . By continuing to arm Israel , British Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer has crossed the line from genocidal denial to genocidal complicity . " We ca n't allow politicians to run away from accountability for their war crimes . "
