<h> Sponsored <p> AL-TUWANEH , West Bank ( AP ) -- Just last week , Israeli troops came and tore down a Palestinian family 's shed in this remote , hilly corner of the West Bank , residents say . It was the latest instance of destruction targeting a collection of hamlets whose population is threatened with expulsion . Palestinians in the Masafer Yatta area cheered the Oscar win of the documentary " No Other Land , " which depicts life in the beleaguered community , and hoped it will bring them some help . In al-Tuwaneh , one of the hamlets that make up Masafer Yatta , Salem Adra said his family stayed up all night for the Oscar ceremony . They watched as his older brother , Basel Adra , the film 's co-director , came on stage to accept the award for best documentary . " It was such a huge surprise , such joy , " he said . " No Other Land " follows Basel Adra as he risks arrest to document the destruction of Masafer Yatta at the southern edge of the Israeli-occupied West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ filmmaker , Yuval Abraham . The joint Palestinian-Israeli production has won a string of international awards , starting at the Berlin International Film Festival in 2024 . Five years in the making , it gained greater resonance amid Israel 's devastating military campaign in Gaza that forced almost its entire population from their homes , as well as increasing raids in the West Bank that have caused the displacement of tens of thousands of Palestinians . At the same time , the film has raised hackles in Israel , scarred by the bloody the Oct. 7 , 2023 attack by Hamas that triggered the war . Salem Adra , who at times helped his brother film for the movie , said he hoped the Oscar win " opens the world 's eyes to what 's happening here in Masafer Yatta . " " It 's a win for all of Palestine and for everyone who lives in Masafer Yatta , " he said . He said that since the film was first released , threats and pressure against his family have increased . Their car has been stoned by settlers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ International Film Festival a year ago , the military returned over and over to the family home , and once detained his father , searching his phone and asking , " Why are you filming ? " The Israeli military designated Masafer Yatta as a live-fire training zone in the 1980s and ordered residents , mostly Arab Bedouin , to be expelled . Israel said the Bedouin did not have permanent structures in the area . But families say they have lived and herded their sheep and goats across the area long before Israel captured the West Bank in the 1967 Mideast war . After a 20-year legal battle by residents , Israel 's Supreme Court upheld the expulsion order in 2022 . The around 1,000 residents have largely remained in place , but troops regularly move in to demolish homes , tents , water tanks and olive orchards -- and Palestinians fear outright expulsion could come at any time . Salem Adra said the latest destruction came Wednesday , when troops tore down the shed of a family in a nearby hamlet . Standing on a stony ridge above @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military have set up 10 outposts around the village since Oct. 7 , 2023 . Shepherd Raed al-Hamamdeh , 48 , led his herd of goats across the rocky land . He pointed to one outpost -- with tents and a trailer flying the flag of an Israeli military unit -- on the other side of a small valley . Farmers no longer tend the olive grove in the valley for fear of being attacked . Al-Hamamdeh said the military uses drones to drive off herds if they get too close to the outposts . " Settlers attack . When we herd sheep , we ca n't go far as you can see . Only up to this point can we reach , " he said . He pointed to the rubble of a house that he said settlers had destroyed , driving out the family and burning their furniture . In Israel , the film garnered little media attention since its release -- and what attention it did get has been angry . When it won the documentary prize at the Berlin festival , its Israeli director Abraham came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end to the war in Gaza without mentioning Hamas ' initial attack and taking of the hostages held in Gaza . In his Oscar acceptance speech , Abraham spoke of both . But that did little to calm criticism in Israel . Culture and Sports Minister Miki Zohar called the win " a sad moment for the world of cinema . " He said the film distorted reality and accused its creators of using " defamation " of Israel as a way help promote the documentary . Usually , Israeli films that are nominated for prestigious international prizes receive boastful accolades in Israel . But after the Hamas attack , " everyone is in mourning or in trauma , we can hardly hear any other voice on any other subject , " Raya Morag , a professor at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem who specializes in cinema and trauma , said last week . On Monday , she said it was n't yet clear if the win will bring the documentary more attention in Israel . But , she said , " it wo n't be possible for people to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people that have n't seen the film . " In his acceptance speech Sunday night , Basel Adra called on the world " to stop the injustice and to stop the ethnic cleansing of Palestinian people . " He said he hoped his newborn daughter would " not have to live the same life I am living now ... Always feeling settler violence , home demolitions and forceful displacement . " On Monday , his brother Salem walked down from the ridge along with his 4-year-old son to a family home . He checked the CCTV cameras the family has set up around the house to watch for settlers . They were still filming . -- - AP writers Omar Akour in Amman , Jordan , and Melanie Lidman and Tia Goldenberg in Tel Aviv contributed to this report . Sam Mcneil , The Associated Press
