<p> JERUSALEM -- The mother of Israeli American hostage Edan Alexander told NBC News she was both shaken and relieved to see her son in a Hamas-issued propaganda video . <p> " To get this video it 's a huge relief for me to see that he 's still strong . It was amazing , " Yael Alexander said in a video call Saturday , hours after the video , captioned " time is running out , " was posted on the Telegram channel of Hamas ' military wing , the Qassam Brigades . <p> Edan grew up in New Jersey and had volunteered to serve with Israel 's military . He was stationed outside Gaza when he was among around 250 people taken hostage during Hamas ' terror attacks on Oct. 7 , 2023 , that also saw 1,200 people killed , according to Israeli tallies . Around 100 people remain in captivity , although a third are believed to be dead . <p> The 20-year-old , who appears under duress in the Hamas video , calls on President-elect Donald Trump to use his power to negotiate for the freedom of those who remain in captivity in Gaza . <p> Edan , who at points can be seen coveringhis face with his hands and crying , adds that he does not want to end up like fellow AmericanIsraeli Hersh Goldberg Polin , who was killed while being held by Hamas in August . <p> " To see him speaking , crying , just to see him -- like , I 'm still shaking , " Yael Alexander said . " He cried a lot in this video . It was very tough to see Edan like this . It was real . It was tough , " she added . <p> " He told me that he 's with us , he 's embracing us , " she said , adding that he told her that he was " going to do whatever he can " to secure a deal to free the remaining hostages . <p> Netanyahu 's office said in a statement after the call that he " feels very much the anguish " of what Edan Alexander and the hostages were going through and assured them that Israel was " working with determination and in every way to return them home , along with all the hostages who are in the hands of the enemy . " <p> Hamas leaders held talks with Egyptian security officials to explore ways to reach a deal with Israel that could secure the release of hostages in return for Palestinian prisoners . <p> The visit was the first since the United States announced on Wednesday it would revive efforts in collaboration with Qatar , Egypt and Turkey to negotiate a ceasefire in Gaza . <p> Hamas is seeking an agreement that would end the war , while Netanyahu has said the war will only end when Hamas is eradicated . <p> Calling the video " a cruel reminder of Hamas 's terror against citizens of multiple countries , " Sean Savett , a spokesperson for the U.S. National Security Council , said in a statement that it had been in touch with the family . <p> Echoing what her son said , Yael Alexander urged Trump to " act now " and work with President Joe Biden to secure the release of the hostages . <p> " This is not an issue for Democrats or Republicans , " she said . This is an issue for everyone to act . This is human life . It 's seven Americans . They need to come back home . "
