<h> Topline <p> President-elect Donald Trump threatened " hell to pay in the Middle East " if remaining hostages are not released by the time he takes office next month -- a statement echoing his previous support for Israel and past calls for the Oct. 7 hostages to be released . <p> President-elect Donald Trump said while people are " talking about the hostages who are being held so ... + violently and inhumanely " in the Middle East , there has been no action on the matter . <p> Getty Images <h> Key Facts <p> Trump said in the Truth Social post that while " everybody is talking about the hostages who are being held so violently , inhumanely , and against the will of the entire World , in the Middle East " it has only been talk and " and no action ! " <p> He added that if the hostages are not released by Jan. 20 , 2025 -- the day he is set to take office -- " those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America . " <p> Around 100 people who were taken hostage from Israel by militant-group Hamas on Oct. 7 are believed to still be held in Gaza , though only about two-thirds are believed to still be alive , according to the Associated Press . <p> Israel 's president Isaac Herzog thanked and blessed Trump for the sentiment in a post on X , formerly known as Twitter , saying , " We all pray for the moment we see our sisters and brothers back home ! " <h> Key Background <p> Gaza-based militant group Hamas took about 240 people hostage when it attacked Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 . More than 100 hostages were released through a previous ceasefire deal between Israel and Hamas , but the two have been unable to agree on terms of another ceasefire since last year . The Washington Post reported that while most hostages are believed to be held by Hamas still , some may be held by other militant groups like Palestinian Islamic Jihad . The Palestinian Health Ministry , which is operated by Hamas , has estimated more than 45,000 people have died since Oct. 7 , according to Al Jazeera , and Israel has been facing increased international pressure to resolve the war as the death toll increases . Last week , Israel agreed to a ceasefire to end its fighting with Lebanon-based Hezbollah , and at the time U.S. President Joe Biden said the U.S. would be making another push soon for a ceasefire between Israel and Hamas and he was hopeful the Hezbollah ceasefire would lay the groundwork . <h> Tangent <p> Trump 's statement came after the Israeli Defense Forces confirmed that Omer Neutra , an American-Israeli citizen who was believed to be held hostage in Gaza , was dead . The IDF said in a post on X that Neutra , who was a 21-year-old platoon commander in the Armored Corps for the IDF , " was killed in battle on Oct. 7 and his body has been held hostage in Gaza since . " Neutra was one of seven American hostages still believed to be held by Gaza , CNN reported , four of whom are dead .
