<p> Pro-Palestinian students hold white t-shirts stating the message , " DIVEST , " as they protest during the UC Berkeley graduation at California Memorial Stadium in Berkeley , Calif. , on Saturday , May 11 , 2024 . Credit : Yalonda M. James / San Francisco Chronicle via AP <p> The BDN Opinion section operates independently and does not set news policies or contribute to reporting or editing articles elsewhere in the newspaper or on bangordailynews.com <p> Sara A. Colb is the deputy director of ADL New England . <p> Last month , the Belfast City Council stepped well out of its local government lane to weigh in on matters of foreign policy , which it is ill equipped to do . ? The council voted , as reported by the Bangor Daily News , " to divest from companies that activists say have contributed to the disproportionate killing of tens of thousands of Gaza 's residents " and " prohibit future investments in such firms for as long as the occupation and attacks on Gaza continue . " ? <p> While the desire to see an end to this war is one most of us share , Belfast 's action to divest , and the Boycott Divestment , and Sanctions " BDS " movement that gave rise to it , do little to promote peace in the Middle East . ? They can , however , cause real harm here at home . <p> For context , it 's important to understand the history of the BDS movement . BDS is an international movement that began in the 2000s , roughly two decades before the current conflict . Under the guise of protesting certain actions of the Israeli government , it is a movement that opposes Jewish self determination on any portion of contested land and aims to dismantle Israel as a Jewish state . At its core , the goal of the BDS movement is to replace much of Israel with a Palestinian state . By delegitimizing and pressuring Israel through the diplomatic , financial , professional , academic and cultural isolation of Israel , Israeli individuals and Israeli institutions , it has increasingly targeted Jews and others who support Israel 's right to exist . ? By insisting upon isolation , and rejecting Israel 's very right to exist as a Jewish state , the Anti-Defamation League warns , BDS 's efforts actually undermine rather than advance the only option for achieving sustainable peace -- a two-state solution . ? ? <p> The Belfast City Council took up the divestment measure after local supporters of BDS " reached out to Mayor Eric Sanders urging the City Council to consider municipal divestment from companies that are described by BDS as ' part of Israel 's prolonged military occupation , apartheid , and genocide , ' " according to the town manager 's report on the Nov. 19 meeting . <p> Such incendiary and inaccurate language can promote a deeply biased and false view of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and current war between Israel and Hamas in Gaza . It ignores the atrocities perpetrated by Hamas on Oct. 7 , 2023 -- the largest slaughter of Jewssince the Holocaust -- as well as the estimated 100 hostages from Israel still being held in Gaza , and holds Israel singularly responsible for all violence in the region . ? Indeed , proponents of BDS were claiming Israel was committing genocide for several years , well before Israel 's post Oct. 7 military operation against Hamas in Gaza . <p> While I can not speculate about the motivations of individual council members in voting for divestment , I can speak to the impact . Delegitimizing the world 's one Jewish nation has consequences for Jews . The vast majority of American Jews and Americans in general believe in Israel 's right to exist . Furthermore , since for the vast majority of Jews in the U.S. and around the world , Israel is an integral part of their Jewish identity , actions that demonize Israel and single it out for unique treatment directly harm the Jewish community . <p> In the year that followed the Oct. 7 Hamas attack , ADL tracked over 10,000 antisemitic incidents in the United States , the highest number ever recorded in a year since ADL began tracking , representing a 200 percent increase over the number recorded in the same period the prior year . <p> At a time of skyrocketing antisemitism , divestment measures risk further exacerbating the hate and isolation that so many Jews are already experiencing . ? Where such action will also have no impact on this war , it simply can not be justified . ?
