<p> " If the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " he wrote on Truth Social . " Those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America . RELEASE THE HOSTAGES NOW ! " <p> Trump 's pledge to hit Hamas " harder than anybody has been hit " is n't a break from the current strategy but a continuation of it . <p> Trump did n't mention Hamas by name , but it 's clear that this was an ultimatum to the group to release the remaining hostages it abducted in Israel during the Oct. 7 , 2023 , attacks . ( Israeli authorities estimate over 60 hostages taken in Israel remain in Gaza . ) <p> Trump sells himself as a great negotiator who pierces through the noise and gets things done with his business acumen and a willingness to act aggressively toward his opponents . But in this case -- as in so many others -- Trump 's rhetoric seems far from a groundbreaking strategy . It looks closer to his typical bluster . <p> Trump 's belligerent language is a reminder that he 'll likely lean into what some call " the madman theory of foreign policy " -- the idea unpredictability and an apparent willingness to use force aggressively can help a political leader intimidate his opponents and achieve his geopolitical goals . But it 's unlikely to be effective here . That 's because Trump 's pledge to hit Hamas " harder than anybody has been hit " is n't a break from the current strategy but a continuation of it . <p> While things can get worse -- Trump can encourage Israel to expend even more energy laying waste to Gaza -- it 's unclear how such a directive would bring Israel and Hamas closer to an elusive ceasefire and hostage deal . Hamas has demonstrated it is willing to tolerate massive military defeats and will bank on Israeli repression to help generate new recruits . That 's alreadyhappening . Hamas has also made clear that it 's indifferent to or eager to sacrifice massive amounts of civilian life in Gaza in order to achieve its political goals . There is no evidence that brutal repression is enough to compel it to give up on all of its demands at the negotiating table . <p> Moreover , the idea that Hamas is the only -- or the primary -- party that needs to be compelled to make concessions is misguided . Israelis have protested against Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu en masse because his administration has made it clear that getting the hostages released is n't his priority . Part of that can be explained by the reality that Netanyahu 's political survival -- and protection from looming corruption charges -- depends on the indefinite extension of the war . <p> Netanyahu has deliberately set vague criteria for the conditions for an end to his military operation : It 's unclear how and whether Hamas can ever be totally " destroyed . " That 's why former Gen. Benny Gantz quit Netanyahu 's war Cabinet in June , citing Netanyahu 's failure to commit to a clear postwar plan and saying Netanyahu stood in the way of a " real victory . " It 's why the Israel Defense Forces ' top spokesperson took the remarkable step of saying Netanyahu was " throwing sand in the eyes of the public " by promising that it was possible to completely destroy Hamas . " Hamas is an idea . Anyone who thinks we can eliminate Hamas is wrong , " he said in an interview with an Israeli broadcaster . <p> As Vox explained in a report in October , Israel 's demands have been " both evolving and abstract " : <p> Netanyahu reportedly torched a potential July ceasefire agreement with Hamas by insisting that Israeli troops maintain a permanent presence in Gaza , and that Israel would continue to have control of the Gaza/Egypt border . Those are much bigger -- and more unrealistic -- asks than previous demands for the return of Israeli hostages in Gaza , which is what the initial ceasefire conversations revolved around . <p> In other words , if Trump wants to be successful in getting the hostages released , he 's also going to need to persuade Netanyahu to stop playing games in committing to realistic terms for a proposal . <p> Trump 's threatening to rain hellfire on Hamas is n't going to alter the fundamental dynamics of the situation in Gaza . Trump might think it makes him sound like a madman who should n't be messed with . But implying that he might try to help brutalize Gaza is the most predictable thing a U.S. president could promise right now . <p> Zeeshan Aleem is a writer and editor for MSNBC Daily . Previously , he worked at Vox , HuffPost and Politico , and he has also been published in , among other places , The New York Times , The Atlantic , The Nation , and The Intercept . You can sign up for his free politics newsletter here .
