<h> Israel 's military says hostages were likely killed by Hamas as airstrike hit <p> Ruti Munder at the grave of her husband , Avraham Munder , in Israel in August.AVISHAG SHAAR-YASHUV/NYT <p> JERUSALEM -- Six Israeli hostages whose bodies were found in the Gaza Strip over the summer were probably shot dead by their Hamas captors in February , around the same time that an Israeli airstrike hit near the underground tunnel where they were being held , the Israeli military said Wednesday . <p> Later on Wednesday night , the Israeli government said that its forces had recovered the body of another hostage , Itay Svirsky , 38 , in Gaza . Svirsky was abducted from Be'eri , a small village near the Gaza border , during the Hamas-led attack Oct. 7 , 2023 , which triggered the war in Gaza . Both his parents were killed during the assault . <p> The two announcements added fuel to an already anguished debate in Israel over whether the country 's military campaign in Gaza is endangering the return of the remaining 100 captives held there , at least some of whom are presumed dead . <p> Advertisement <p> The Israeli military said its investigators and pathologists could not definitively determine how the group of six hostages had died , as their bodies were recovered six months after they were killed . Israeli troops found the bodies with " signs of gunfire " on them in the southern city of Khan Younis in August . The hostages were killed in February , around the same time that Israeli fighter jets targeted a Hamas site in Khan Younis , according to the military . <p> It was only later that Israeli officials learned the bombardment had hit , at most , 220 yards from where the six hostages were being held , Rear Admiral Daniel Hagari , the Israeli military spokesperson , said in a televised news conference . <p> " We were supposed to bring them home alive , and we failed in our mission , " Hagari said . <p> The airstrike ultimately killed the hostages ' Hamas guards , most likely by asphyxiation , said an Israeli military official who briefed reporters on the condition of anonymity to comply with protocol . <p> In a statement , the Israeli military said it was " highly probable " that the hostages ' deaths " were related to the strike , " which may have prompted their captors to shoot them . But the Hamas guards ' deaths appeared to raise the possibility that the airstrike might have killed the six hostages either way . <p> Hagari said it was impossible to determine whether the hostages were killed by gunfire or as a consequence of the strike . But the military believed the former scenario was more likely , he said , rather than one in which other militants later shot the hostages ' bodies . <p> Advertisement <p> The six hostages were mostly older people taken from their homes during the Hamas-led attack . They were : Avraham Munder , 79 ; Haim Peri , 80 ; Yoram Metzger , 80 ; and Alexander Dancyg , 75 , from the tiny kibbutz of Nir Oz ; and Nadav Popplewell , 51 ; and Yagev Buchshtab , 35 , from a nearby community , Nirim . <p> Hamas and its allies took 251 people captive during the Oct. 7 assault , which killed 1,200 people , most of them civilians . After over a year of war , hostages remain in Gaza despite Israel 's efforts to free them by force and an internationally backed push for a ceasefire and hostage release deal between Israel and Hamas . <p> Talks have been deadlocked for months , as both Israel and Hamas have set seemingly irreconcilable conditions for a postwar settlement . <p> Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu argues that ramping up Israeli " military pressure " on Hamas will ultimately compel the Palestinian militants to come to an agreement . But at least some of the hostages have been mistakenly killed by Israeli airstrikes in Gaza , including three soldiers . <p> The Israeli military has since tightened its criteria for authorizing airstrikes , such as sometimes mandating the approval of a special intelligence directorate working on the hostage issue , the statement said . That may require intelligence indicating that an area is clear of hostages , the Israeli military official told reporters . <p> Israel 's campaign in Gaza has flattened huge chunks of its cities and killed over 44,000 people , according to Gaza health officials , who do not distinguish between combatants and civilians . The Israeli military says it has " eliminated " 17,000 militants . <p> Advertisement <p> The families of the remaining hostages fear that each additional day in Gaza further threatens their loved ones ' lives . At least 37 of the remaining hostages are already presumed dead by the Israeli government ; the bodies of another 37 have been retrieved by Israeli soldiers . <p> " The investigation is yet more evidence that military pressure leads to the killing of hostages , " the Hostages and Missing Families Forum said in a statement Wednesday . " The military inquiry , as well as numerous other events , shows the absolute urgency of bringing all of our people back . " <p> The death of Svirsky -- the hostage whose body was recovered Wednesday in Gaza -- had been announced in January . Palestinian militants had held him alongside Noa Argamani , who was freed in an Israeli rescue operation in June , and Yossi Sharabi . <p> " Dear Itay : During our time together in captivity , we imagined a thousand scenarios in which we returned back to Israel , " Argamani wrote on social media . " We never thought you would come back like this , as a corpse . "
