<h> Similar to video of Edan Alexander released last week , Zangauker states " the guards informed us of the new instructions , we are very afraid . " <p> Hamas released a video of hostage Matan Zangauker , December 7 , 2024. ( photo credit : screenshot ) <p> Hamas published a three-minute video of hostage Matan Zangauker , 24 , to Telegram on Saturday , entitled " Time is running out . " <p> In the video , Zangauker introduces himself and tells the camera that he has been in captivity for over 420 days . He then sends a message to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu : " I heard about your new plan to return us home . I heard that you will give $5 million to whoever returns us safely home and provide them a safe exit from the Gaza Strip . I am very disappointed . Now I am certain that you do not know your enemies and you do not understand their mentality . This is your failure and the failure of the government since October 7 . " <p> Similar to the video of Israeli-American hostage Eden Alexander Hamas released last week , Zangauker states that " the guards informed us of the new instructions , and we are very afraid , my friends and I , for our lives . " <p> Zangauker says that " we die a thousand times every day , and no one feels for us . The people of Israel , do not neglect us . We are still alive . We want to return before we go crazy . Isolation is killing us , and the darkness here is frightening . It is illogical that we pay the price for the government 's mistakes , and it is time to put an end to our suffering . " Natali Zangauker ( left , ) sister of Israeli hostage Matan Zangauker , and their mother Einav Zangauker ( right ) arrive for a police investigation in Tel Aviv , May 1 , 2024. ( credit : AVSHALOM SASSONI/FLASH90 ) <h> A message to his family and friends <p> He also sent a message to his mother , Einav , who has been leading the Hostages and Missing Families Forum protests since the beginning of the war on October 7 . <p> " I watch you , and I hear you a lot , and I understand the activities you do , and I hear the activities you carry out . I am very happy that you are well , and I hope to see you soon and sit with you at the same table to eat and drink and talk with you . " <p> There is then a pause in the video before Zangauker reappears . <p> " You are leaving us to die and fall . I do not know how you work . Why do you make all these mistakes ? I am paying the price for your mistakes that you make every day . I am dying little by little , and every day , a part of me dies , " he said . <p> " The people of Israel , my family , my friends , my mother , Dado , Shani , and my grandmother : The government has neglected us and continues to neglect us day after day . I hope you will do what you can to change the situation and return me with the rest of the prisoners alive and healthy , " the hostage said . <p> " Life in Gaza is not easy . We live with little food , undrinkable water , and little medicine . We live with rats , spiders , and other animals , and the lack of hygiene products affects us badly . We have skin disease and dandruff . We do n't have soap . " <p> Zangauker then calls on all the people of Israel to demonstrate in front of Netanyahu 's house and not let him sleep . <p> " Why is this taking so long ? Why is there no agreement ? Why are we here ? " he asks as the video concludes . " Do n't forget us ! " <p> Zangauker was taken captive from Kibbutz Nir Oz on October 7 . He was abducted alongside his partner , Ilana Gritzewsky , who was released as part of a hostage deal after 55 days in captivity . <p> The Hostages and Missing Families Forum said in response that " the release of Matan 's video , coming just one week after Edan Alexander 's , provides further evidence that after more than 420 days in captivity , there are hostages still alive and enduring severe suffering . " <p> The forum concluded that " through these 420 days of ongoing abuse , malnutrition , and confinement in darkness , the critical need to secure the return of all 100 remaining hostages becomes more urgent with each passing hour . As time grows increasingly precious , we urge all parties involved in negotiations to explore every available path and apply all possible forms of pressure -- these hostages ' lives hang by a thread . "
