<p> Investigators have found that a high-ranking Chicago police official should be suspended in two separate disciplinary cases -- one focusing on inflammatory comments he made about Palestinians ' treatment of gay people and another hinging on the improper disclosure of juvenile criminal records to a top mayoral aide . <p> In each case , the Chicago Police Department 's Bureau of Internal Affairs has recommended that Area 1 Deputy Chief Don Jerome should be suspended for 28 days . <p> Meanwhile , Jerome has remained on active duty in a highly visible position as police officials determine his fate . " The disciplinary process is being finalized , " said a police spokesperson , who declined further comment . <p> The first disciplinary case centers on a March 21 incident at City Hall , where Jerome " disseminated a list containing juvenile records " to one of the city 's deputy mayors , according to a summary report of the probe . <p> Internal investigators found that he violated rules that bar cops from improperly handling or releasing records , disobeying an order or directive , and discrediting the department . <p> Months later -- as scores of demonstrators gathered to protest the war in Gaza during the Democratic National Convention -- a Palestinian American sergeant accused Jerome of making a series of offensive statements about the ongoing conflict and the treatment of gay people in the Middle East . <p> In a complaint , the sergeant described Jerome 's comments as " offensive , misogynistic , homophobic , and racist , " adding that he feared retaliation . <p> Jerome , the sergeant and more than a dozen other officials had gathered Aug. 20 at the Deering District police station , where Jerome began joking about an earlier protest that brought together advocates for LGBTQ+ and Palestinian rights , according to the complaint . <p> " If those LGBTQ protesters were in Palestine , those Muslims would behead them for being gay , " Jerome said . <p> Investigators determined Jerome " made an offensive derogatory statement regarding LGBTQ protesters , " according to a summary report . The investigation found he was disrespectful , failed to promote the department 's policies or goals , discredited the department and violated a law or ordinance . <p> An allegation that Jerome threatened retaliation by allegedly saying " I will remember your name " was n't sustained . Neither was an allegation that Jerome harassed the sergeant by pointing at the sergeant and repeatedly asking , " Who beheads gay people ? " <p> The sergeant 's attorney , former CPD General Counsel Thomas Needham , said his client " is appreciative of the prompt attention and swift conclusion to his complaint , " adding that Jerome 's " rhetoric and behavior contradicts the values and mission of the Chicago Police Department and further erodes public trust . <p> " Deputy Chief Jerome remains in his current position which involves frequently addressing the media and continues to oversee hundreds of officers of all races , ethnic groups , and religions under his command serving Chicago 's diverse communities , " Needham added . " Hopefully Supt. Larry Snelling will take the appropriate measures to resolve and finalize the matter satisfactorily . <p> " There can not be a different standard for the command staff than there is for the rest of the officers in the Department , " he said , noting that Snelling and Mayor Johnson " should take a hard look at whether deputy chief Jerome deserves the public 's trust to continue to hold his current position . " <p> Jerome previously faced an unsustained complaint related to a pro-Palestinian protest in January in which he allegedly damaged someone 's camera . Ahmed Rehab , executive director of the Chicago chapter of the Council on American-Islamic Relations , insisted that Jerome 's background includes " anti-Muslim , anti-Palestinian animus . " <p> " Unless he recants and apologizes , or is disciplined , our communities will not feel safe with him wielding police authority , " Rehab told the Sun-Times . <p> Jerome has faced dozens of complaints since joining the police department in 1994 , a handful of which were sustained , according to a database maintained by the Invisible Institute , an independent newsroom focused on police accountability . <p> Most notably , Jerome was suspended for 28 days for his role in the cover-up of then-Supt . Eddie Johnson 's drunken driving incident in 2019 . At the time , Jerome was the commander of the Deering District , where the top cop was found slumped over in his police SUV after dismissing his driver and trying to drive home . <p> Responding officers failed to administer a sobriety test , giving Eddie Johnson a police escort home while watching him violate traffic laws . He was ultimately fired amid the scandal . <p> Besides the designs chosen from a state competition as finalists , you 'll also be able to vote starting in January on whether to just keep the current state flag instead or to revert to one of two past versions : the 1918 Centennial Flag or the 1968 Sesquicentennial Flag . Legislators will make the final call next year . <p> CHSN has yet to appear on Comcast , the largest cable provider in the market , and Marquee continues to operate under short-term extensions while trying to stave off being moved to the distributor 's highest-priced tier . <p> Nikki Giovanni was called " the princess of Black poetry . " She spent decades as a literary celebrity , writing books for children and adults and sharing blunt and conversational takes on everything from racism and love to space travel and mortality .
