<p> Prominent industry insiders are gathering support for Oscar consideration for the documentary " We Will Dance Again , " which chronicles the horror that unfolded at Israel 's Nova International Music Festival on Oct. 7 , 2023 . <p> Producer Marc Platt , Sean Penn , music mogul Scooter Braun and former HBO and MTV documentary chief Sheila Nevins are voicing support for the film , produced by Sipur , Bitachon 365 in collaboration with MGM Television , HSCC and Susan Zirinsky 's See It Now Studios with BBC Storyville . " We Will Dance Again " has aired on the BBC Storyville plaform in the U.K. and on Israel 's Hot Channel 8 . The 90-minute documentary , written and directed by Yariv Mozer and produced by HSCC 's Michal Weits , is available in the U.S. on Paramount+ . <h> Related Stories <p> Platt , Braun and others are hosting an invitation-only screening for the documentary on Sunday on the Paramount Pictures lot . A survivor of the terrorist attack by Hamas that ignited the war in Gaza will take part in a panel session after the screening . More than 360 people were killed and many more wounded when terrorists opened fire on the outdoor festival held in Re'im in southern Israel . <h> Popular on Variety <p> Penn , who produced the 2023 documentary " Superpower " about the war in Ukraine , is speaking out for " We Will Dance Again . " <p> " We bandy about the term ' must-see film , ' and yet rarely do films live up to that in any literal sense . As heartbreaking as it is revelatory , ' We Will Dance Again ' is truly a must-see film in our time , " Penn said . <p> Nevins emphasized that a documentary such as " We Will Dance Again " is the right vehicle to capture world-shaking events and also help with processing the trauma . <p> The film pieces together the savage attack with video footage from a range of sources , including some incredibly disturbing material released online by Hamas terrorists . The ensuing war in Gaza has created a global humanitarian crisis that has left more than 44,000 Palestinians dead . Nearly 1,200 Israelis died in the Oct. 7 attack and 63 people remain captive from the 251 hostages taken by Hamas on Oct. 7 . <p> Zirinsky , the longtime CBS News producer and former CBS News president , stressed that the film 's focus is on the young adults whose lives were shattered that day . <p> " This film is apolitical -- and the authenticity of the 12 survivors -- immersing you in events as they unfolded right before your eyes -- and that is why so many of Hollywood 's greatest storytellers have voiced their appreciations for having unraveled this tragedy as we honor the memories of the many lives lost , " Zirinsky said .
