<h> Now is the time for Jerusalem to grasp the opportunity and push forward for a deal . <p> Waking up to the news that the savage regime of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad had fallen marked a monumental moment in the history of the Middle East . <p> For 54 years , Syria has been under the rule of the Alawite-minority Assad family after Assad 's father , Hafez Assad , took power in 1970 . Since the elder Assad 's death in 2000 , his son has ruled Israel 's northern neighbor with an iron first , clinging to power in the Sunni-majority country . <p> Since Syria 's civil war erupted in 2011 , Assad has suppressed insurrections by rebels by using extreme methods , including chemical weapons in 2013 on opposition-controlled suburbs of Damascus . The attacks led to the death of hundreds of civilians . In 2017 , Assad carried out another chemical attack on rebels in Khan Shaykhun , between Aleppo and Damascus . <p> Assad 's forces killed hundreds of thousands of civilians , and millions have been displaced , some internally and some abroad , creating one of the world 's largest refugee crises . <p> Following the toppling of his regime early on Sunday as rebel forces entered Damascus without a fight from the Syrian military , one of the heartening developments was reading the social-media posts of exiled Syrians rejoicing and planning their return to their " free " country.Syrian rebel leader Abu Mohammed al-Julani ( credit : REUTERS/Mahmoud Hasano/Media Branch of Syrian Rebel Operations Room/via REUTERS ) <p> There are certainly no tears shed in Israel over Assad 's demise . In addition to his war crimes against humanity , he was a sworn opponent of Israel 's existence and allowed Iran to commandeer his country to funnel weapons to Hezbollah in Lebanon . <p> With the rebels , led by Abu Mohammed al-Julani , set to take control of the war-torn country , however , the old adage of whether it 's better to cope with the devil you know comes into play . <p> The likelihood that Syria will emerge as a stable country that does n't present a threat to Israel is slim , but there is one major benefit of the regime change and its implications . Assad 's fall is one more domino in the crumbling of Iran 's influence in the region and in the increasing isolation of Hamas in Gaza . That opens the door a crack for the chances of a deal to be reached to free the remaining 100 hostages held by Hamas . <p> Hamas has already lost its on-the-ground ally , Hezbollah , which left its Gaza comrades out to dry when it agreed to a ceasefire with Israel late last month . Iran 's role as a spiritual ally to Hamas has also been greatly diminished , as Tehran 's weakness has been exposed threefold : its decision not to retaliate against Israel for the October 25 attack on its military facilities , its " defeat " in Lebanon with the tremendous loss its proxy Hezbollah suffered at the hands of Israel , and its abandonment of Assad in his time of need . <p> With the precarious ceasefire in the North holding for the time being , Hamas is more alone than ever in its fight against Israel as it struggles to survive . At its lowest point , the time for a hostage deal is ripe , and there appears to be movement from both sides after weeks of inactivity . <p> According to a Walla report , Israel has given to Hamas , through Egyptian mediators , an updated version of a proposal that involves the release of the remaining 100 hostages . The deal offers a ceasefire with Hamas that would last 42 to 60 days . During this period , Hamas would release female hostages , male hostages over 50 , and hostages in critical medical condition . Israel would release hundreds of Palestinian prisoners , including those serving life sentences , in exchange . <h> Hamas signals commitment to cooperation <p> Hamas spokesperson Sami Abu Zuhri last week said Hamas was ready for a deal . " We are committed to cooperating with any effort to reach a ceasefire in Gaza , and we are interested in ending the aggression against our people , " he said , according to Arab media reports . <p> The recent release of two videos made by Hamas of hostages Eden Alexander and Matan Zangauker further indicate that Hamas is feeling pressure and desperately wants a deal . <p> Now is the time for Jerusalem to grasp the opportunity and push forward for a deal -- whether it 's a partial release , as detailed last week , including women , children , the elderly and infirm ; or optimally , a comprehensive package that will release all of the hostages , install a new government in Gaza , and bring our troops home . <p> If Assad 's downfall turns out to hasten the return of Israeli hostages , it will be an ironic -- and wonderful -- twist to the legacy of a man who will go down in history as a bloodthirsty mutation and stain on humanity .
