<h> Thr stressed mother has not touched her son 's messy room since October 7 , and greets him every morning in his empty room . <p> Shelly Shem Tov , mother of 22-year-old Omer Shem Tov , who was abducted from the Nova music festival on October 7 , told the Jerusalem Post Miami Summit that since the 430 days since her son 's been held hostage she 's no longer counting the days , she 's counting the minutes . <p> " It 's more than half a million minutes that my sunshine is in captivity . People are asking me , how can you handle it ? So I am saying that every day , I am afraid to open my eyes because I do n't know what the day will bring , " Shelly said . " Then I am opening my eyes and I see daylight , and I 'm thinking about my Omer that did n't see daylight for 430 days . " <p> Shelly shared how she has n't touched Omer 's messy room since October 7 , saying that he will come home and clean it himself . <p> Shelly said she goes into Omer 's room every morning and says " good morning , love of my life , I know that you are strong , I know that you have faith . We are doing everything to bring you back home . " <h> Living in a nightmare <p> It 's a nightmare of more than half a million minutes in hell she does n't want any parent to experience . Dana Shem Tov , sister of Omer Shem Tov , 21 , an Israeli hostage kidnapped on the deadly October 7 attack on Israel by Palestinian Islamist group Hamas from Gaza , shouts slogans next to other relatives , friends and supporters during a rally calling for the hostages ' release , amid the ongoing conflict ( credit : CARLOS GARCIA RAWLINS/REUTERS ) <p> Shelly recounted learning about Omer in captivity from former hostage Itay Regev , a friend of Omer 's he who was abducted and held captive with , along with Regev 's sister . <p> Shelly learned how Omer and Itay observed Shabbat in Hamas captivity with a small bottle of grape juice , a piece of bread or even a piece of salt . They knew God was with them , she said . <p> " I 'm so proud about my son . They took his freedom , but they could n't take his faith , his soul , " Shelly said . " And for me , I know that my son is strong . He has faith . He knows that he 's waiting , that people , the soldiers will come to take him back home . And we are waiting , and we are praying every day that this miracle would happen . "
