<h> Alsobrooks can be an advocate for Israeli women in Hamas captivity GUEST COMMENTARY <h> Share this : <p> Prince George 's County Executive Angela Alsobrooks , the Democratic candidate for the Maryland U.S. Senate seat , answers questions during an interview with the editorial board at the Baltimore Sun . ( Amy Davis/Staff ) <p> It 's December 2024 , and multiple women have been held hostage in Gaza for nearly 450 days . UN Women , the organization responsible for advocating for justice for Romi Gonen , Naama Levy , and all other female victims of Hamas ' sexual violence , has been mostly silent regarding their abduction and the massive sexual violence that took place on Oct. 7 , 2023 . Every day that passes is another day that Israeli women are subject to sexual violence . <p> In an interview with The 19th in April , you spoke about your time in public office , saying , " I loved fighting for women , and I also loved , after the cases were done , talking to them in my office -- supporting and encouraging the women who had had horrible things happen to them , to their children and families . " Your record of advocating for justice for women has been beyond exceptional . It is your passion for justice and your record of leadership that has led us to call upon you for help . <p> We urge you to publicly support Israeli women who were sexually assaulted by Hamas during the Oct. 7 terrorist attack and who are being assaulted in Gaza right now , and to condemn sexual violence by saying that you believe Israeli women . Rape and sexual assault have no place in war and it is important to stand in solidarity with these victims . Your advocacy is all the more important because of the recent wave of antisemitism , misogyny and atrocity denial that is affecting survivors and harming more general efforts to combat sexual assault . <p> On Oct. 7 , 2023 , Hamas terrorists attacked Israel , killing nearly 1,200 people and kidnapping 251 people , holding them as hostages . During the attack , many Israeli women and girls were subjected to sexual violence and extreme acts of cruelty . In many cases , they were gang-raped , tortured and mutilated before they were killed . Videos of naked and bloodied women filmed by Hamas , photographs of bodies and eyewitness accounts provide abundant evidence of gender-based violence and brutality , intended to cause as much pain to victims as possible . For Hamas , the cruelty of this sexual violence was the point . <p> Political attacks , propaganda , overwhelming post-traumatic stress and shame have been inflicted on survivors of these assaults , thus making many of them reluctant to come forward . Despite these obstacles , the Association of Rape Crisis Centers in Israel found that sexual violence was systematic , widespread and a " clear operational strategy " of Hamas . <p> There is further evidence that the Israeli hostages in Gaza are still being sexually assaulted . A horrifying video posted on Oct. 7 showed a young woman named Naama Levy being dragged by her hair and forced into the back of a Jeep , with her ankles slashed and her sweatpants stained with blood . Released hostages said that Levy was alive but wounded and being abused . The former hostage Amit Soussana testified to both doctors and reporters about how she was tortured and sexually assaulted during her captivity and urged that a deal be reached , so the remaining hostages can be freed . <p> As American-Jewish feminists , we have witnessed the deafening silence coming from countless champions of feminist causes , from the Women 's March to the United Nations . We need our leaders on all levels of government to set the standard that all survivors of sexual violence deserve to be believed . <p> Senator-elect Alsobrooks , please believe Amit . Please believe Naama . Please believe us when we say we are in dire need of leadership to demand justice for our murdered and abducted sisters . Please say , " I believe Israeli women " and support a deal to free the hostages , so that the women who are being abused and tortured can be liberated and return to their families and friends . <p> Michael DeLong and Beth Vander Stoep are local advocates with the community organization Baltimore Area Jewish Feminists .
