<p> While Amnesty International was the first international NGO to declare what Israel is doing as a genocide , other groups have meticulously documented the country 's alleged war crimes . <p> One of the legal scholars who advocated for these charges against Israeli leaders was Theodor Meron , a man who oversaw the world 's first genocide trials . Meron was once an Israeli diplomat , then an American judge , and was himself a survivor of the Nazi genocide of Jews . <p> One thing these reports and these court rulings have in common is that they use the words of Israeli leaders , such as Gallant 's declaration about food and water being kept out of Gaza , as evidence of Israel 's intentions . But that 's not all . Both Amnesty International and the International Court of Justice have cited similar sources to allege that Israel is committing war crimes : Israeli soldiers bragging about it on social media . <p> This is evidenced by Amnesty International 's analysis of 62 videos , audio recordings and photographs posted online showing Israeli soldiers in which they made calls for the destruction of Gaza or the denial of essential services to people in Gaza , or celebrated the destruction of Palestinian homes , <p> mosques , schools and universities , including through controlled demolitions , in some cases without apparent military necessity . <p> It continued : <p> Of these , 31 called orally or in writing for the annihilation , destruction , burning or " erasure " of Gaza , or used other similar rhetoric . The existence of a large number of these public videos and statements highlights not only systemic impunity but also the creation of an environment that emboldens , if not tacitly rewards , such behaviour . <p> After Amnesty International 's report was released , Israel 's Foreign Ministry stated on X : " The deplorable and fanatical organization Amnesty International has once again produced a fabricated report that is entirely false and based on lies . " <p> But this report adds to a growing consensus among some experts about what has happened in Gaza over the last 14 months . When people say that this is " the first livestreamed genocide in history , " it 's not just Palestinians filming their own destruction for the world to witness , it 's Israeli soldiers doing so as well . <p> Last week , The Washington Post published a visual story titled " Revenge , fire and destruction : A year of Israeli soldiers ' videos from Gaza . " The Post reported even more evidence of Israeli soldiers destroying the homes and neighborhoods of private citizens , and in some cases , admitting that there is no military purpose or justification for what they are doing . One soldier told the Post , " I took these videos to raise the morale of the people at home , and I do n't regret it for a moment . " <p> The paper also reported on a sick genre of images that has become all too common in the past 14 months : Israeli soldiers filming themselves playing with Palestinian women 's underwear or lingerie . Regarding that video , the Israeli military told NBC News , they 've " taken action and will continue acting to identify misconduct and behavior that does not align with the expected morals and values of IDF soldiers . " <p> One soldier told the Post , " I took these videos to raise the morale of the people at home , and I do n't regret it for a moment . " <p> We 've also seen videos of Israeli soldiers destroying children 's toys and laughing at what was a Palestinian shop in Northern Gaza late last year . Regarding this video , the IDF told NBC News , " The behavior of the soldiers in the video is inappropriate and contrary to the values of the IDF , " and pledged to review the case accordingly . <p> A day after the American election , a video began circulating online of an Israeli soldier appearing to fire his gun indiscriminately and adding his commentary on the election results , remarking , " This is on the occasion of Donald Trump 's presidency . " Once again , the Israeli military told NBC News , " The soldier 's actions are severe and do not align with the values and orders of the IDF . The soldier will be disciplined by his commanders . " <p> But despite all of this -- despite an arrest warrant for Israel 's leader ; despite the charges of using starvation as a weapon of war ; despite women and children making up nearly 70% of the dead Palestinians in Gaza , according to a United Nations report ; despite the fact that more women and children have been killed in Gaza by Israeli military than any other recent conflict in a single year , according to Oxfam ; and despite a U.N . agency 's report that 10 Palestinian children lose one or both of their legs in Gaza every day -- The Financial Times first reported on Nov. 27 that the Biden administration has provisionally approved a new $680 million weapons sale to Israel .
