<h> Israel 's frenzied reality : When destroying an enemy navy is n't the top news story - analysis <h> This astounding military achievement was relegated to a secondary headline . It was just one more story in a news cycle overflowing with drama . <p> A bombed hangar after the IDF hit weapons depots near the Mazzeh military airport , outside Damascus , on December 9 , 2024 ( photo credit : BAKR ALKASEM/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> " The IDF announced that it destroyed Syria 's navy , " the announcer of the KAN radio news bulletin said matter-of-factly at 11:00 am on Tuesday . <p> There were two astounding things about that announcement . <p> The first was that Israel had taken out the Syrian navy , with all its ships and sea-to-sea missiles . The second was that this item did not lead the news bulletin -- that distinction went to the courtroom drama of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , who took the stand for the first time in his more than four-year-old corruption trial . <p> Think about that for a moment . Israel had neutralized an entire enemy naval force , along with much of its air force , in what could only be described as a Six-Day War-style operation . And yet this astounding military achievement was relegated to a secondary headline . It was just one more story in a news cycle overflowing with drama . <p> This illustrates the relentless pace of life in this country right now . Israeli soldiers take a position in the Golan Heights , near the Israeli border with Syria , northern Israel , December 8 , 2024. ( credit : MICHAEL GILADI/FLASH90 ) <p> Meanwhile , the deaths of seven IDF soldiers in Lebanon and Gaza reported the day before did n't even make the 11:00 am bulletin . Their funerals and the circumstances of their deaths -- once events that would have gripped the nation -- were overshadowed by these other stories . <p> This unrelenting flood of events is not unique to this week . Consider just the past two months : A ceasefire with Hezbollah in Lebanon came into effect two weeks ago ; the IAF significantly degraded Iran 's air defense systems and ballistic missile program six weeks ago ; Israel killed Yahya Sinwar , the leader of Hamas in Gaza , eight weeks ago . Each of these is an earth-shattering event , yet they all blur into a whirlwind of historical moments , leaving little time to breathe in between , take them in , and process their significance . <p> No sooner is the nation processing one momentous event than another comes and pushes it to the side . <p> And then came the rapid collapse of the Assad regime in Syria on Sunday . Journalists rightly termed this as " historic " -- the downfall of a dictator whose family had brutally ruled the country for 54 years is indeed historic . But in the same breath , the term " historic " was also used to describe Netanyahu 's courtroom testimony , the first time a sitting prime minister has taken the stand in his trial . <h> Historic shift <p> Even though Netanyahu 's testimony was " historic " in the sense that something like this has never happened here before , using the same adjective for both events feels inadequate and even misleading . <p> The rebel takeover of Syria is a seismic shift with far-reaching regional consequences . Netanyahu 's testimony is unprecedented but will not have nearly the same impact on the country or the region . Its real significance will not be evident until a verdict is reached and the appeals process is exhausted -- a process that could stretch on for years . <p> Nevertheless , these days in Israel do have a " historic " feel , as if we are living through events that will be flagged and highlighted as highly significant in future history books . <p> The rapid-fire frequency of these formidable events creates a dangerous paradox : we become simultaneously desensitized to drama and addicted to it . When every headline screams " historic " or " dramatic , " it becomes difficult to distinguish the genuinely monumental from the merely momentary . <p> This addiction to action is n't just a feature of the news cycle ; it 's woven into the national psyche . If there is a world-stopping event leading the news daily , what do we do when there is n't ? Then , we tend to take a regular run-of-the-mill story and make it dramatic . <p> Yair Lapid 's father , the late justice minister Tommy Lapid , once captured this tendency perfectly in an op-ed in The Jerusalem Post . " If a drainage pipe bursts in Tel Aviv , the next day 's headline will declare that the country 's entire sewage system is on the verge of collapse , " he wrote . In a nation addicted to drama , even the mundane becomes magnified . Hamas released a video of slain hostage Eden Yerushalmi before her death , giving a message directed at Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. ( credit : Screenshot/Hamas Telegram ) <p> This tendency is amplified by a media landscape that thrives on hyperbole . Every political skirmish in the Knesset , every piece of propaganda released by Hamas , every disagreement with the US president , every arrest or protest is a crisis or something billed as dramatic . <p> But this addiction has a cost . The constant bombardment of high-stakes events erodes the public 's ability to process grief and celebrate victories . When tragedies like the deaths of seven soldiers barely register because other events drown them out -- in this case , genuinely significant ones -- it reflects a troubling , though understandable , numbness . <p> At the same time , our national addiction to drama creates a vacuum that demands to be filled -- often by overinflating and blowing up smaller stories into dramatic crises . <p> And yet , how can we help it ? Israel experiences in a month what other nations might in a year . The news cycle here is frenetic , like the pace of the collective life here itself -- filled with triumph , heartbreak , and tension , often all at the same time .
