<h> Following a vote in the national Senate , Switzerland 's House of Representatives accepted the proposed Hamas ban on Wednesday afternoon by 168 votes to six . <p> A Swiss flag is pictured during the sunrise on the Commercial and Financial District in Geneva , Switzerland , November 23 , 2017 ( photo credit : REUTERS/DENIS BALIBOUSE ) <p> Foreign Minister Gideon Sa'ar congratulated Switzerland for independently designating Hamas as a terrorist organization through primary legislation in a post on X/Twitter on Wednesday . <p> Switzerland has independently designated Hamas as a terrorist organization through primary legislation with overwhelming support . I commend Switzerland for this critical step and urge other nations to follow suit . Hamas is one of the most heinous terror organizations in ... <p> " Switzerland has independently designated Hamas as a terrorist organization through primary legislation with overwhelming support . I commend Switzerland for this critical step and urge other nations to follow suit . Hamas is one of the most heinous terror organizations in history -- it must be recognized as such worldwide , " Sa'ar posted . <p> Swiss media reported that movements to ban Hamas as a terror organization began in 2017 when the Swiss parliament initially called for their ban . The Federal Council halted this action by claiming that Switzerland was " using its contacts with Hamas in Gaza to urge them to comply with international humanitarian law . " <p> Parliament members pushed for a Hamas ban , Swiss media reported Wednesday , noting that they practiced neutrality and had only adopted existing UN bans for sanctioning terrorist organizations , as per local law . <p> Still , Hamas has not officially been designated on the UN 's terror list , leading the central European country to create new legislation to allow for this designation . Though Al Qaeda and the Islamic State were banned , Hamas would need alternative action . <p> Swiss diplomats raised concerns on how the ban could rely on political pressure from partner states . <p> Non-neutral countries banned the terror organization at a quicker speed , with the EU designating Hamas a terrorist organization in 2003 . Those sanctions expanded after the October 7 , 2023 attacks . Israel banned the group immediately after it was founded , and the US and United Kingdom followed in 1997 and 2001 , respectively . <p> Following a vote in the national Senate , Switzerland 's House of Representatives accepted the proposed Hamas ban on Wednesday afternoon by 168 votes to six . <p> Swiss Parliament approved the ban for an initial period of five years with the option to extend . <h> Policy of neutrality <p> Switzerland , which is known for remaining assertively impartial with diplomatic ties and policies , had given Hamas an opportunity to act as a legitimate governing body . After Switzerland committed to a contact policy with the terror organization , the Federal Council justified it as a " Swiss commitment is aimed at preventing violent extremism . " <p> This changed for Swiss parliamentarians following October 7 massacre in Israel . In the largest pogrom against the Jewish people since the Holocaust , Hamas led a deadly assault on Israeli communities , murdering more than 1,200 and taking 250 hostage . More than a year later , 100 captives remain in Gaza . <p> After Hamas made it clear that they had intentions of repeating the brutal assault , Switzerland decided to close the channel for dialogue . The actions were carried out with violent intent , not for peaceful purposes , Swiss officials ruled .
