<p> Pressure from President-elect Donald Trump was a major factor in Hamas relenting on two key issues during cease-fire and hostage-release talks with Israel , a senior administration official told NBC News on Friday . <p> New hope for an agreement had senior Biden administration officials fanning out across the Middle East this week with the goal of closing on a critical pact by the end of 2024 . <p> According to officials who spoke on condition of anonymity because they are not authorized to speak to the media , Hamas has now agreed to Israeli forces staying in the Gaza Strip temporarily after fighting ends and to provide a complete list of hostages , including Americans , who will be released . The Wall Street Journal was the first to report on the concessions Hamas was prepared to make . <p> " There is a confidence we have not seen since May when the president Joe Biden presented his proposal , " the Biden administration official told NBC News , acknowledging that Trump 's warning that he wants to see a deal before he takes office was " a big factor " in recent concessions . <p> Not everybody shared this optimism . <p> " We are not there yet , " another U.S. official warned . <p> Negotiators were " closer " but " we 've been close before so I 'm very cautious . " <p> The Oval Office has only one occupant at a time and Trump wo n't take over until Jan. 20 , but Biden has appeared deferential to letting his successor get involved in negotiations and has not pushed back on his efforts to be engaged in talks . <p> Basem Naim , a member of Hamas ' political wing , told NBC News that he was not aware that the group had recently made concessions during negotiations . <p> This month , Trump wrote on Truth Social : " Everybody is talking about the hostages who are being held so violently , inhumanely , and against the will of the entire world , in the Middle East -- but it 's all talk , and no action ! " <p> " If the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against humanity , " he added . <p> National security adviser Jake Sullivan said Thursday that the Biden administration has had " very good consultation and coordination , " with the incoming Trump team . <p> " We talk to them about how we can send a common message that the United States , no matter who 's sitting in the Oval Office , no matter whose party is in charge , wants to see this ceasefire and hostage deal and see it now , that is all part of the American contribution to an effort to ultimately produce an outcome here , " Sullivan said , speaking from Tel Aviv . " And we 're going to keep working until we get it done . " <p> The latest cease-fire proposal stems from U.S. proposals earlier this year , an Israeli official told NBC News . Both leaders of the Shin Bet internal security agency and Mossad traveled to Cairo in recent weeks to discuss the potential agreement . <p> The U.S. hopes to secure the agreement before the end of the month , Sullivan said Thursday at a news conference in Tel Aviv . Sullivan met with the Qatari prime minister in Doha on Friday and will then travel to Cairo for further discussions on the deal . <p> Secretary of State Antony Blinken , who has traveled to the Middle East more than 10 times since Hamas ' Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack , did not give a timeline . <p> " What we 've seen in the last couple of weeks are more encouraging signs that it a ceasefire is possible , " Blinken said Friday after meeting with his Turkish counterpart . Blinken will discuss the next steps for a future Gaza with his Arab counterparts in Aqaba , Jordan , on Saturday . <p> Negotiations to secure the release of the remaining hostages captured by Hamas during the Oct. 7 attack have languished for months . Around 1,200 people were killed in Israel during the attack . <p> Nearly 45,000 people , more than half of them women and children , have died in Gaza in the war that followed the attack , according to health officials and aid organizations . Much of the Palestinian enclave has been destroyed and a majority of the population driven from their homes .
