<h> Kantor praised the resilience of Israel 's injured soldiers : " Thanks to these young adults , we shall rebuild what has been destroyed . " <p> Kantor was presented with a special award for her efforts : " We shall rebuild what has been destroyed . " ( photo credit : Elliot La-Mer - DEMAGIC ) <p> At the Jerusalem Post 's 2024 Miami Summit , philanthropist and founder of the " Lev Esh " foundation , Olessia Kantor , delivered a powerful speech honoring the resilience and courage of Israeli soldiers wounded in the recent war in Lebanon and Gaza . <p> For her invaluable work , Kantor - also part of the Jerusalem Post 's 5o Most Influential Jews list for 2024 - was presented with a special award for entrepreneurship and philanthropy . " Olessia Kantor has been working to aid those suffering from the deep wounds of trauma caused by October 7 , " said Deputy Editor-in-Chief Tamar Uriel-Beeri , " Tonight , we recognize her vital effort to heal the nation . " <p> Drawing from her personal experiences , Kantor spoke of the extraordinary strength embodied by these warriors , framing their journeys as a testament to the human spirit . " And ask about the first association that the word " injury " brings up , you would most likely find various answers , among others : Difficulty , pain , hospitalization , " she began . <p> " But after spending the last year with injured soldiers , my answer is two words : spirit and resurgence , " Kantor noted how these soldiers remain steadfast in their commitment despite immense physical and emotional scars . Kantor shared the stories of two such heroes . <p> Lieutenant Roei Yaaran , who lost both legs in battle , attended his brigade 's graduation ceremony to present green berets . " Roei has been spending long months in recovery , " she said , " surviving immense pain . Yet , somehow manages to give strength to everyone he comes across . " <p> She also recounted the journey of Sergeant Major Michelle Rokovitzin , the most critically injured soldier , who fought her way back from a coma and recently accepted a surprise marriage proposal . " Not a single person believed she would make it , but Michelle fought against all odds . " <p> Reflecting on her foundation 's mission , Kantor described " Lev Esh " as a source of support for both physical and psychological wounds . " Among the wounded , " she said , " There are those who are not acknowledged as such , and the scars in their souls are of the deepest , most painful kind . " <p> Kantor shared her admiration for their resilience and described them as symbols of inspiration and national resurgence . " Thanks to these young adults , " she concluded , " We shall rebuild what has been destroyed . With this spirit , The rebirth we have all been wishing for will come true . "
