<h> September 5 Is Almost Nauseatingly Suspenseful <p> Peter Sarsgaard captures the right pitch for this type of role : a soft-spoken single-mindedness that can quickly shift to outrage or bewilderment . Photo : Paramount Pictures <p> Tight as a drum and almost nauseatingly suspenseful , Tim Fehlbaum 's September 5 presents an unexpected angle on a familiar event . The violent standoff at the 1972 Munich Olympics , which saw the Palestinian terror group Black September take a group of Israeli athletes hostage -- an incident that resulted in the shocking deaths of all the captives and most of the captors -- has been well documented on film , most notably in Steven Spielberg 's Oscar-nominated 2005 drama Munich . Fehlbaum returns to the event via its on-the-ground transmission : the ABC sports team that , while providing round-the-clock live coverage of the Olympics that year , suddenly found itself in one of the biggest , most dramatic news events of its time . <p> This approach is filled with potential pitfalls . At heart it 's kind of an underdog story , about sports guys , chroniclers of the frivolous , punching above their weight when given the opportunity . Make it too much of one , however , and you undermine the deadly gravity of the situation . At one point , network headquarters suggests to ABC sports chief Roone Arledge ( Peter Sarsgaard ) that they let the news team handle this one , and he refuses ; his guys found the story , they have access to the satellite link , and they 're the ones on the ground . Sarsgaard , who gave his greatest performance more than two decades ago in another true-life journalism drama , Shattered Glass , once again captures the right pitch for this type of role : a soft-spoken single-mindedness that can quickly shift to outrage or bewilderment as the situation demands . You can imagine this guy , with those seemingly kind eyes that also look like they could slice right through you , leading a newsroom . ( The actor , who won the Volpi Cup at Venice last year for Memory , probably deserves a bit more recognition these days as one of the best we 've got . ) <p> The movie stays largely within the confines of ABC 's remote studio in Munich , which Fehlbaum and his crew have scrupulously re-created , reportedly down to the tiniest details . Its dark , cramped corridors and control rooms absorb the sinister mood of the events happening outside ; every decision begins to feel like a life-and-death matter , even though in many of these cases it 's just journalists and technicians pressing buttons and saying words . Much of the suspense derives from the ways that the studio crew , led by Geoffrey Mason ( John Magaro ) and Marvin Bader ( Ben Chaplin ) , figures out how to cover the unfolding story , from tapping into radio frequencies being used by the police to dressing up a crew member as an athlete so he can smuggle canisters of film in and out of the now-cordoned-off Olympic Village . At 94 minutes , the film races by , but it also demonstrates a patience and fascination with the process -- with the whirr of tape reels , the tangle of cables , the lumbering weight of cameras -- that enhances the tension . By focusing so intently on this particular group of people covering this broader event , Fehlbaum finds his way into an otherwise pre-determined drama . We know what happened at Munich , yet we find ourselves living through the events as if their outcome was unwritten . <p> The film also takes on the quality of a conjuring . Fehlbaum has also remained ruthlessly faithful to the facts , interweaving acres of real , contemporaneous television footage with this modern-day reconstruction , so that his actors are interacting with actual images from the era . When they talk to the legendary sportscaster Jim McKay , we 're seeing the actual McKay ( who died in 2008 ) as if he were responding in real time ; when an Israeli athlete who got away from the kidnappers comes into the studio for an interview , we 're seeing the real guy . That may not sound like such a dramatic aesthetic gambit , but the incorporation is so thorough , so constant , that the movie starts to feel like a conversation with the past . Which it is : We forget , perhaps , that the presence of Israeli athletes at Munich was a big deal in 1972 , just a generation and a half removed from World War II , in a landscape where the shadow of the Holocaust still loomed large . <p> Of course , September 5 comes at a time when it 's bound to become part of another conversation , about what 's currently happening in Palestine . The film serves as an important reminder that civilians have died on both sides of this conflict for decades -- that nobody anywhere , really , has a monopoly on the murder of innocents . And while September 5 was filmed before the events of October 7 and Israel 's subsequent attack on the Gaza Strip and beyond , the filmmakers did n't walk into this guilelessly ; the struggle in the Middle East might sometimes exit the news cycle , especially in the U.S. , but it 's been an ongoing debacle for most of our lifetimes . <p> The hermetically sealed quality of Fehlbaum 's film perhaps prevents us from reading too much into it about contemporary politics -- or maybe it invites us to read whatever we want . But of course , such a framing can itself reveal the real-time political machinery of a historical event . Within this heated environment , we see how attitudes and language become codified . At one point , there 's even an internal conversation about whether to refer to the Black September captors as " terrorists . " We know how that one turned out . September 5 reminds us -- as did Munich , as does No Other Land , for that matter -- that it 's the drip , drip , drip of small , seemingly minor decisions and actions that wind up determining how we see , experience , and understand history .
