<p> Israel 's defense minister has vowed that it would maintain " full freedom of action " in the Gaza Strip after fighting ends in the Palestinian enclave , a day after raising hopes that a ceasefire and hostage deal was imminent . <p> Israel was " closer to a ceasefire deal than we have ever been , " Defense Minister Israel Katz said during a closed-door parliamentary committee hearing Monday . The comment was confirmed to NBC News by an Israeli lawmaker who was present . <p> While ceasefire talks have broken down multiple times in the past , two U.S. officials and an Israeli official last week told NBC News that Hamas relented on key points to securing an agreement . <p> According to the officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity , Hamas agreed that Israeli forces would remain in Gaza temporarily after the end of hostilities , and Hamas would provide a comprehensive list of hostages , including American citizens , to be released . Hamas would also see a large number of Palestinian prisoners released by Israel as part of the deal , the sources said . <p> An anti-government protest in Tel Aviv on Tuesday calling for action to secure the release of hostages.Jack Guez / AFP via Getty Images <p> The Wall Street Journal first reported these concessions . Hamas has not confirmed to NBC News or others ' reporting that it has agreed to Israeli troops in Gaza . <p> Hamas said Tuesday that " serious and positive discussions " had taken place in Doha , Qatar , with Egyptian and Qatari mediators , and that reaching a ceasefire agreement and prisoner exchange was possible if Israel " stops setting new conditions . " <p> On Tuesday morning , Katz said Israel would maintain control over Gaza after the fighting ends . <p> " After the military and governmental power of Hamas in Gaza is defeated , Israel will securely control Gaza with full freedom of action " he posted on X , likening this outcome to Israel 's current control over the occupied West Bank . <p> Katz did not immediately respond to NBC News ' request for details on what " full freedom of action " would mean . But the comparison to the West Bank underscores a key concern for Palestinians and their supporters : the fear of prolonged Israeli military presence in Gaza , akin to the West Bank , where Israel maintains ultimate control over territory and settlements , and carries out regular raids in the area . <p> Yossi Mekelberg , a senior consulting fellow with Chatham House 's Middle East and North Africa program , said Katz ' comparisons with the West Bank suggest that Israel is " going to have full control entering by any means at any given time . " <p> " That 's a completely fair enough interpretation , considering that we know what happens in the West Bank , " he said . " Is that what a ceasefire agreement is going to say ? I have my doubts . " <p> Smoke and flames rise from a residential building following an Israeli attack in Gaza City on TuesdayHamza Z. H. Qraiqea / Anadolu via Getty Images <p> Gershon Baskin , an Israeli hostage negotiator and frequent critic of Netanyahu 's government , said he did not believe Katz ' remark that Israel had never been closer to a ceasefire . <p> " I have difficult accepting that Hamas has dropped its fundamental demand of an obligation to end the war including full Israeli withdrawal , " he told NBC News via WhatsApp . <p> President-elect Donald Trump has injected urgency into negotiations , repeating Monday his threat that there would be " hell to pay " if no deal was in place by the time he was inaugurated Jan. 20 . <p> A senior administration official told NBC News on Friday that Trump 's pressure was a major factor in Hamas relenting on two key issues during ceasefire and hostage-release talks with Israel . <p> " There is a confidence we have not seen since May when " President Joe Biden " presented his proposal , " the official told NBC News , acknowledging that Trump 's warning that he wants to see a deal before he takes office was " a big factor " in recent concessions . <p> The U.S. hopes to secure a ceasefire agreement before the end of the month , national security adviser Jake Sullivan said last week in a press conference in Tel Aviv . <p> Recent developments in the region , including the weakening of Iran , the longtime backer of the terrorist group , the degradation of Hezbollah and the fall of Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad , also contributed to the compromise by Hamas , the senior Biden administration official said . <p> Negotiations to secure the release of the remaining hostages captured by Hamas during the Oct. 7 , 2023 , terror attack have languished for months . According to Israeli officials , around 1,200 people were killed in the country during the attack and around 250 people were taken hostage -- dozens of whom are still being held by Hamas and other militant groups . <p> More than 45,000 people , more than half of them women and children , have been killed in the Gaza Strip in Israel 's military campaign following the attack , according to the enclave 's health officials and aid organizations . Much of the Palestinian enclave has been destroyed and a majority of the population driven from their homes .
