<p> The enclave was pushed closer to the grim milestone by Israeli airstrikes that killed at least 26 people Sunday , including 16 at a school sheltering displaced Palestinians in northern Gaza . <p> Oren Marmorstein , a spokesperson for Israel 's Foreign Affairs Ministry , confirmed to NBC News on Sunday that Israel had filed the appeal against the ICC warrants . <p> The warrants were related to " crimes against humanity and war crimes committed from at least 8 October , 2023 until at least 20 May 2024 , " including " the war crime of starvation as a method of warfare ; and the crimes against humanity of murder , persecution , and other inhumane acts . " <p> A woman touches the cheek of a child killed by an Israeli airstrike Saturday.Omar Al-Qattaa / AFP - Getty Images <p> Marmorstein said Israel , which is not a member of the ICC , " categorically rejects the baseless accusations " and is " determined to defend the justice of its positions and to strongly oppose the miscarriage of justice . " <p> Foreign Minister Gideon Saar also said he ordered the closure of Ireland 's embassy in the country because of " the extreme anti-Israel policies of the Irish government . " <p> The Irish government said last week it would ask the International Court of Justice to broaden its definition of genocide , claiming Israel has engaged in the " collective punishment " of people in Gaza . <p> While the closure is another step in Israel 's growing isolation from the international community , Netanyahu 's spokesperson , Omer Dostri , has confirmed that Netanyahu spoke with President-elect Donald Trump on Saturday about regional developments in Lebanon , Syria and Gaza and the threat posed by Iran . <p> Netanyahu 's office said Sunday his government has approved plans to expand settlements in the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights , allocating over $11 million to a plan aimed at " doubling " its population , currently around 20,000 . In 2019 , Trump signed an order recognizing Israeli sovereignty over the area , which was seized from Syria in 1967 . <p> Meanwhile in Gaza , Israel bombed clusters of houses and set some ablaze in three towns , also attacking Khalil Aweida , a school-turned-shelter , before it stormed it and ordered displaced families to head toward Gaza City , according to Reuters , citing medics and residents . <p> Mohammed Abu Afash , director of Palestinian Medical Relief , a nongovernment organization , warned Sunday of an " environmental disaster " in the northdue to the accumulation ofbodies in the streets and " their devouring by stray dogs and cats , " adding that the World Health Organization had delivered limited fuel and medical supplies amid the siege . <p> The Israeli military did not immediately respond to a request for comment . <p> A Palestinian man carries a child killed by an Israeli airstrike through a cemetery in Deir el-Balah on Sunday.Eyad Baba / AFP - Getty Images <p> Israel attacked the school-turned-shelter after it launched a wave of airstrikes Saturday , which killed at least 49 people , seven of them during an attack on another school sheltering displaced Palestinians , health officials said . <p> They said women and children were among the dead , including a girl who was only 2 days old . <p> The Israeli military has been operating in northern Gaza for over two months , though the siege of the Gaza Strip has lasted for 15 months , a response to the Oct. 7 , 2023 , terrorist attack in which roughly 1,200 people were killed in Israel and around 250 people were taken hostage . <p> Since then , nearly 45,000 people have been killed in Gaza , most of them women and children , while over 105,000 people have been injured , and many victims remain buried under rubble . <p> Meanwhile , in the Israeli-occupied West Bank , tensions have escalated after at least one person was killed following violent clashes between Palestinian Authority forces and Palestinian militants in the city of Jenin . <p> Western-backed PA forces have set up checkpoints in the city and claimed their forces were undertaking security operations to restore law and order in the refugee camp suburb , a stronghold of militants alienated from Palestinian leadership . <p> Philippe Lazzarini , commissioner-general of the U.N . agency for Palestinian refugees , said Saturday that it had suspended services in Jenin Camp for another day following the violence , with children unable to attend school and residents cut off from health care and other essential services . <p> " All sides of these internal confrontations need to uphold the basic principles of international law that guarantee the safety of civilians &amp; their access to basic services in all situations , " Lazzarini said on X.
