<p> Top officials from the U.S. , Qatar and Egypt have resumed their mediation efforts in recent weeks and reported greater willingness by the warring sides to wrap up a deal . In a key concession , Hamas officials say they are prepared to show more " flexibility " on the timing of an Israeli troop withdrawal from Gaza , and Israel 's defense minister , Israel Katz , said Monday that a deal is closer than ever . <p> Officials on all sides have cautioned that key details must still be worked out . But there is a general sense of optimism that has been lacking for many months . <p> The changing sentiment appears to be the result of several factors . Israel has inflicted heavy damage on Hamas over the course of the war . The group is more isolated after Hezbollah 's ceasefire with Israel , and Iran , a key backer of both militant groups , has suffered a number of setbacks , highlighted by the downfall of its close ally , Syria 's Bashar Assad . <p> Here is a closer look at the emerging deal , according to the officials , who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were discussing closed negotiations . <p> Preliminary ceasefire <p> The first phase would last from six to eight weeks . During that time , Hamas would release some 30 hostages -- roughly half of those believed alive . They include three or four dual U.S.-Israeli citizens . <p> Israel would release hundreds of Palestinian prisoners , including as many as 100 who are serving long sentences for alleged involvement in bloody attacks . <p> This is expected to include a reopening of the territory 's Rafah crossing with Egypt , which has been closed since Israeli ground troops invaded the southern border town in May . The crossing is especially important because it is the primary exit point for Palestinians in Gaza who want to travel abroad , and the only one not controlled by Israel . <p> Mediators say they are considering a return to a 2005 agreement that allowed the internationally recognized Palestinian Authority to operate the crossing with European Union observers . That agreement collapsed when Hamas seized control of Gaza in 2007 and expelled the Palestinian Authority forces . <p> Israeli troop withdrawals <p> During the first phase , Israeli troops would withdraw from some Palestinian population centers , allowing many Palestinians to begin returning home . But Israeli troops would n't leave Gaza altogether at this stage . They would remain along the Philadelphi corridor -- a strategic strip of land along Gaza 's border with Egypt . <p> Ending the war <p> During the initial ceasefire , the sides would continue negotiations on a permanent agreement , to include an end to the war , full withdrawal of Israeli troops , and release of remaining hostages and bodies held by Hamas . <p> Talks would begin on final arrangements for Gaza , including who would govern the territory and plans for rebuilding the destruction . <p> Guidelines : Keep it civil and on topic ; no profanity , vulgarity , slurs or personal attacks . People who harass others or joke about tragedies will be blocked . If a comment violates these standards or our terms of service , click the " flag " link in the lower-right corner of the comment box . To find our more , read our FAQ.
