<p> After an unprecedented spring of pro-Palestinian protests on campuses across the United States , the fall semester has been comparatively quiet . The total number of protest actions declined by more than 64 percent , from 3,220 to 1,151 , according to data from the Crowd Counting Consortium , a project by Harvard University 's John F. Kennedy School of Government and the University of Connecticut that collects data on protests . <p> The number of students arrested for protesting dropped even more precipitously . Last spring , 3,572 students were arrested in connection with their involvement in protests as pro-Palestinian encampments proliferated on campus quads , starting with the one launched at Columbia University on April 17 . But in the fall , only 88 student protesters were arrested . ( For the purposes of this article , numbers for the spring were calculated using data from Jan. 1 to July 1 and from July 1 to Dec. 17 for the fall . ) <p> The decline can certainly be attributed in part to a natural loss of momentum following the fever pitch the movement reached in the spring . But some free speech advocates believe that the restrictive expressive-activity policies some institutions introduced over the summer and early fall may have discouraged students from protesting . <h> Most Popular <p> The policies ranged from banning the erection of tents on campus grounds to limiting the times and places where students are allowed to hold demonstrations . <p> While free speech experts agree that some time , place and manner restrictions are acceptable , they have branded some policy changes unconstitutional . The Foundation for Individual Rights and Expression singled out New York University 's highly controversial new conduct code , which states that attacks against " Zionists " can be considered discrimination or harassment , as the term can be construed as an attack on individuals for their Jewish or Israeli identity . <p> " NYU 's policy as written sweeps into its ambit a large amount of protected political speech , " FIRE wrote to the institution . " With an ongoing war in the Middle East , speech that strongly advocates for -- or against -- the Israeli or Palestinian cause can not help but be offensive to many people . With few exceptions , it nevertheless remains , and must remain , free from official punishment . " <p> Pro-Palestinian demonstrators last spring frequently rallied against Zionists and Zionism ; some encampments featured signs that read " No Zionists , " and protesters chanted slogans such as " the Zionists have got to go . " <h> Confusing Language <p> But it 's not just the policies themselves that have contributed to the decline in protests . FIRE 's director of policy reform , Laura Beltz , noted that many students struggled to parse the complex , bureaucratic language of the policies , leaving them uncertain about what was , in fact , permitted . <p> " We 've gotten a lot of questions from students just trying to navigate the policies , because these are really lengthy documents , " she said . " Some of these rules for when you have to reserve a space or when you have to give advanced notice are really confusing . " <p> At UMass Boston , for example , students are now expected to give five days ' notice before protests or demonstrations , but exceptions can be made " when protests or demonstrations are caused by news or affairs coming into the public knowledge less than 24 hours previously . " FIRE has criticized the policy for its vagueness , arguing that it leaves it to administrators to determine when relevant information came " into public knowledge . " <p> " Because news is constantly changing , whether a demonstration is caused by news or affairs occurring within the past day is an inherently subjective assessment , " the organization wrote in a letter to the university . " The difficulty and subjectivity of these calculations invite administrators to make self-serving arguments about which ' news or affairs ' are recent enough to permit impromptu demonstrations . " <p> Students may also be wary of holding protests after observing the severe backlash their peers experienced during the spring , when thousands were arrested -- including some who alleged the police used force . Others faced institutional sanctions and online or in-person harassment . <h> Editors ' Picks <p> Furthermore , numerous students who faced conduct charges or arrests in the spring continued to be affected bysanctionslike suspension this fall , which keeps them off campus and thus unable to engage in protests . Others received deferred suspensions , which often require students to stay out of trouble for a certainperiodof time to avoid a harsher punishment . <p> Jay Ulfelder , program director of Harvard 's Nonviolent Action Lab and one of the researchers on the Crowd Counting Consortium , said that this semester has also seen a shift in the manner of protest , with two types becoming more common : vigils , which increased from 168 in the spring to 217 in the fall , and " study-ins " -- where students silently work on their computers while displaying signs bearing messages of protest -- which jumped from five in the spring to 63 this semester . <p> " Part of that is organizers trying , as they say , to keep the focus on the people of Gaza . Part of it is also , I think , it looks worse for an administrator when they 're actively preventing a vigil where people are holding candles and remembering people who died , " Ulfelder said . <p> Of course , those demonstrations were not without their own controversies ; a series of study-ins at Harvard , for example , ended in 12 students and 25 faculty members being banned from the library for two weeks due to the institution 's ban on demonstrations in the library .
