<h> Trump , the Abraham Accords , and my Gaza solution - opinion <h> " In Gaza , the " protectors " will be the Abraham Accords countries , with the important active addition of Saudi Arabia and Egypt . " <p> US PRESIDENT-ELECT Donald Trump meets with House Republicans on Capitol Hill in Washington , last week . It is difficult to tell how Trump will react if Israel will fail to end the current war on its various fronts by the time he enters office , says the writer. ( photo credit : BRIAN SNYDER/REUTERS ) <p> With the clock ticking down to Donald J. Trump re-entering the White House as the 47th president of the United States , the same clock is also ticking down in Israel 's war against Hamas in Gaza , which begs the question : What is the best post-war solution for Gaza in the context of a fractious and dangerous Middle East ? <p> Earlier this year , The Jerusalem Report published my concept of a future Gaza as a model for a new Middle East My concept is to convert a destroyed Gaza into an Abraham Accord project built on the known concept of protectorates and in Gaza 's case , not based on the support of one large nation but a collective protectorate of the existing Abraham Accord partners to reconstruct Gaza both physically and ideologically . <p> The ideological part is more important than structural rebuilding of Gaza . The Gaza Strip was being controlled by a radical and authoritarian ideology that led to its physical destruction.Read More ... <p> A new Gaza can not be put into the hands of those who refuse to forge a rational peaceful future for its people based on an active desire to live in peace and partnership alongside Israel . <h> Why the Palestinian Authority ( PA ) can have no part to play in formulating a new Gaza <p> The corrupt Fatah-PLO leadership in Ramallah follows the same playbook as Hamas in indoctrinating its young into a mindset of antisemitism and the concept of a Palestine replacement of Israel.Palestinians take part in a protest in support of prisoners held in Israeli jails , in the West Bank city of Hebron on December 1 , 2024 ( credit : YONATAN SINDEL/FLASH90 ) <p> The reason the authoritarian PA will not hold elections is that internal polls show that Palestinians would vote Hamas into power . Knowing this and to appease their people , Mahmoud Abbas and his Fatah adopted their pernicious " pay-to-slay " policy , incentivizing Palestinians to kill Jews . Palestinians affiliated with Hamas are included in their reward system . <p> It is unacceptable for Israel to have this imposed on Gaza by myopic two-state peacemakers who blindly try to kosher Ramallah . It is suggested that Israel should control Gaza -- but who is going to rebuild it ? I doubt that hard-working Israelis are willing to foot the bill , and no international partners seem willing to participate if Israel takes permanent charge of Gaza . <p> Some see Gaza as an integral part of ancient Israel , but surely they are eyeless in Gaza as in the legend of a blinded Samson . And I do n't want to see my grandchildren patrolling the streets of Gaza with more than two million Arabs and just a few thousand Jews . <p> There are some who propose easing Gaza into a Jewish majority by offering Gazan families humanitarian repatriation of $250,000 and free flights to whichever destination they prefer . These dreamers have yet to tell me who is going to donate billions of dollars needed to fund this hallucination . <p> The best solution for Gaza is my concept of a new Gaza to be constructed as an Abraham Accords protectorate . It was unlikely that Saudi Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman would take the courageous initiative to join Israel in a Gaza venture -- until Donald Trump was re-elected . Now all options are on the table . <p> Trump the peacemaker will be keen to extend his successful Abraham Accords initiative by bringing Saudi Arabia into the fold -- and what better way for this to be put to the test that in rebuilding Gaza ? It is in Saudi Arabia 's interest to actively pull Gaza away from Iranian influence and do so in partnership with others under the protection of the United States . <p> Gaza is the model for a new Middle East -- a partnership of genuine cooperation in the form of an Abraham Accords protectorate . The status of protectorates is recognized under international law , and the specific relationship between the " protectorate " and the " protector " is well known . As a political and governing system , the concept of protectorates has been successful and is working well in the international arena . In Gaza , the " protectors " will be the Abraham Accords countries , with the important active addition of Saudi Arabia and Egypt . <p> The reconstruction will build a new society not based on radicalism but on the moderate form of Islam represented by Saudi Arabia , under the Crown Prince , the UAE , and Bahrain . They will not only build the new mosques and madrassahs Islamic religious schools . They will employ the imams and religious teachers introducing their brand of Islam , which includes recognition of Israel . <p> When Israel was developing Gaza , a grand plan was proposed for an offshore airport , marina , and seaport with a connecting road and rail bridge to the mainland . This project was introduced by Israel Katz , the current defense minister . Formerly , Katz served as foreign and transportation minister . Gaza is ideally located to be the Cote d'Azur of the Middle East bordering on Israel , Egypt , and the Mediterranean , making it a potential geographic pivot for Gaza-based tourist travel into Egypt and Israel . <p> The protectorate concept will nurture Gaza into becoming an independent state , with its citizens receiving Gazan identity and passports , eventually being introduced as a new member of the United Nations sponsored by its Abraham Accords protectors ? <p> The writer is a senior associate for public diplomacy at the Israeli Institute for Strategic Studies .
