<h> Trump 's return to White House creates uncertainty for Israelis and Palestinians <p> In 2019 , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu renamed a planned settlement " Trump Heights " after he became the first Western leader to officially recognize Israel 's control over the Golan Heights . <p> ABC News <p> The upcoming change in the White House is sparking uncertainty for the Middle East . President-elect Donald Trump might be a familiar face ( and a historically friendly one for the Israelis ) , but what he will do to address the conflict between Israel and the Palestinian territories remains unclear . <p> Jerusalem lies at the heart of the near-century-old conflict between Israelis and Palestinians , since it stands as a powerful political and religious symbol for both sides . Palestinian protests over the move spread to Gaza and the West Bank , turning deadly as demonstrators clashed with the Israeli military . <p> In 2019 , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu renamed a planned settlement " Trump Heights " after he became the first Western leader to officially recognize Israel 's control over the Golan Heights . <p> ABC News <p> Many Israelis welcome Trump 's return to the White House . In his first term , Trump became the first Western leader to officially recognize Israel 's control over the Golan Heights , which it seized from Syria in 1967 . And , as a thank you , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu renamed a planned settlement in the area " Trump Heights " in 2019 . <p> Some members of the Israeli government hope Trump will go a step further when he returns to the White House on Jan. 20 . Days after Trump won the presidential election , Bezalel Smotrich -- Israel 's far-right finance minister -- announced at a press conference that he 's ordered preparations for the annexation of settlements in the West Bank . <p> " I intend , with God 's help , to lead a government decision that says the government of Israel will work with the new administration of President Trump and the international community to apply Israeli sovereignty over Judea and Samaria , " he said in Hebrew . <p> Smotrich referred to the West Bank as Judea and Samaria , a reference to ancient Israelite kingdoms as some Israelis assert that the area is a historic Jewish homeland . <p> Smotrich 's plan would effectively cement the West Bank as Israeli territory , despite the occupied land being part of what would form a Palestinian state . <p> Official U.S. policy has always been in favor of a two-state solution , meaning it supports the creation of a Palestinian state alongside the state of Israel . Trump 's appointment of Mike Huckabee -- the former governor of Arkansas and a staunch supporter of Israel 's expansion ambitions -- as ambassador to Israel has thrown continued commitment to that policy into question . <p> In the West Bank village of Al-Makhrour , a Christian area west of Bethlehem , local woman Alice Kasiya is holding out hope for better days under Trump . Her family 's land was seized by Israeli settlers at the end of July . In a video posted to social media , she said 50 Israeli soldiers sealed off the area as bulldozers drove through . <p> " He 's a business guy . He had many peace agreements with other countries before , in his presidential time , " she told ABC News . " And I know everyone says no , it will , it will be worse with him , but I believe it will be better . He 's a good guy . " <p> West Bank resident Alice Kasiya , whose family 's land was seized by Israeli settlers over the summer , expressed hope that Trump 's return to office will bring positive change to the area . <p> ABC News <p> Kasiya , who 's been arrested three times while protesting , said she believes the situation ca n't get any worse . She noted that Israeli settler expansionism has accelerated dramatically since Hamas ' deadly Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack . <p> " We have seen many settlers coming and trying to take over lands , " she said . " So it 's like cancer . They are spreading . They put the first step and they will keep moving around until they get everything slowly , slowly . " <p> Kasiya also warned that what happens in her area reverberates far and wide . <p> " It 's not for us only , it 's for the whole world , " she told ABC News . " Because this city is the Holy City that affects the whole world . If it 's not in peace , nowhere else will be living in peace . "
