<h> " We 're not going to leave them in power in Gaza , 30 miles from Tel Aviv . It 's not going to happen , " he said amid calls by many to accept a ceasefire-hostage release deal in the Palestinian enclave . <p> Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said that he would not " agree to end the war before we remove Hamas " in an interview with Wall Street Journal editorial writer Elliot Kaufman , which was later published in the US newspaper on Friday . <p> " We 're not going to leave them in power in Gaza , 30 miles from Tel Aviv . It 's not going to happen , " he said amid calls by many to accept a lasting ceasefire-hostage release deal in the Palestinian enclave . The Journal op-ed notes that the Israeli prime minister only envisions such a deal to be a partial one if the Palestinian terrorist organization is still intact . <p> The Israeli leader told Kaufman that Israel is " winning big " against its opponents with the weakening of Hamas and Hezbollah and the dismantlement of Syria 's Assad regime , the op-ed notes . <p> Netanyahu also claimed in the interview that only days after October 7 , some Israeli military officials suggested going more after the Hezbollah terrorist organization so that Hamas would be left " intact in the south , " to which the prime minister disagreed and said , " We should n't conduct a two-front war . One massive front at a time . We 're here to uproot Hamas -- not to deliver deterrent blows , but to destroy it . " <p> Netanyahu then defended Israel 's position to control the Philadelphi Corridor in Gaza 's south , saying , " It 's not enough to destroy Hamas if you do n't control the southern closure . " Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu during a situational assessment on Mount Hermon . December 17 , 2024. ( credit : IDF SPOKESPERSON 'S UNIT ) <p> He then discussed the US withholding weapons should Israel enter Rafah , which Netanyahu described as a " legitimate case " and appreciated the pressure US President Joe Biden was under on the matter , Kaufman 's op-ed stated , with the Israeli leader saying " It 's not easy to be president , let 's face it , with these very radical fringes in his party . It was n't easy to do what Mr. Biden did . " <h> Netanyahu says Islamic Republic and its proxies are weakening <p> Looking towards Israel 's northern border , Netanyahu told Kaufman that before his assassination , Hezbollah Secretary-General Hassan Nasrallah " was literally taking over the command of the military actions . But the thing that startled me was that I realized he was the axis of the axis , replacing Qassem Soleimani . " <p> He later said that Iran " has no supply line , " saying the Islamic Republic spent billions of dollars on Syria , Hezbollah , and Hamas . " We warned Assad not to let Iran supply Hezbollah with weapons through Syria . He played dumb , " he added . " I do n't know if we killed anyone , but we certainly smashed the weaponry of the Syrian army , " he said regarding the Israeli bombing of Syria 's chemical weapons facilities . " We do n't want all the stuff the Syrians amassed falling into the hands of the jihadists . " <p> He then made it clear that he was optimistic about US President-elect Donald Trump returning to the Oval Office , saying that he " places the onus squarely on Hamas and tells them there will be consequences . "
