<p> SEATTLE -- The family of Seattleite and University of Washington graduate Aysenur Ezgi Eygi , who was killed by Israeli soldiers in the West Bank , met with the Secretary of State and other officials in D.C. this week to demand a U.S. investigation into her killing . <p> Eygi , 26 , was shot in the head in September while she was in the West Bank to protest against Israeli settlements with the International Solidarity Movement . Witnesses said Eygi was killed after a peaceful demonstration against a settler outpost by the West Bank town of Beita devolved into a clash between stone-throwing protesters and Israeli troops firing live ammunition . <p> Eygi 's husband and sister expressed frustration in an interview Thursday about their meeting with Secretary of State Antony Blinken . Eygi 's widower , Hamid Ali , said that even their " low expectations were not met . " <p> " After a disappointing meeting with Blinken where he essentially said he would n't be doing anything , we 've targeted ( senators and Congress people ) to put pressure on Blinken , " said Ozden Bennett , Eygi 's sister . <p> Shortly after Eygi 's death , Blinken and other officials called for an Israeli investigation into her killing . The Israel Defense Forces said Eygi was killed " unintentionally " during a " violent riot . " A Washington Post investigation found Eygi was shot more than 200 yards away from Israeli forces and 30 minutes after demonstrators had retreated . <p> Ali and Bennett said they went into the meeting hoping for more evidence , documentation , eye witness accounts -- anything . Instead , Ali said they were met with " shoulder shrugging and indifference " about the investigation . <p> Bennett said that when they asked specifically for an independent investigation conducted by the U.S. , Blinken referred them to the Department of Justice . <p> State Department spokesperson Matthew Miller told CNN the Israeli government communicated to Blinken they are finalizing their investigation and said Blinken offered " his deepest condolences " to the family . <p> In the spring , Eygi had been part of the UW encampment protesting Israel 's ongoing destruction of Gaza . She was born in Turkey , moved to Seattle as an infant and was a Turkish American dual national . <p> Friends and loved ones remember her as a brilliant , principled woman who enjoyed cooking and making art . She studied psychology and Middle Eastern languages and cultures at UW . Eygi wanted to enter a doctorate program this year . She loved her cat and was a proud aunt . <p> During their trip to D.C. , Eygi 's family also held a vigil for her outside the White House . Bennett , Ali and Eygi 's father , Mehmet Eygi , joined several Washington lawmakers at Lafayette Square on Wednesday calling for an independent investigation . <p> " It has been 100 days since Aysenur was murdered , and there has been absolutely zero accountability , and that is completely unacceptable , " said Rep. Pramila Jayapal , who represents the district Eygi lived in . " ... This is not a single incident . It is a pattern . " <p> Rachel Corrie , from Olympia , was also an activist with the International Solidarity Movement when she was killed in Gaza in 2003 . Corrie was crushed to death as she tried to block an Israeli military bulldozer from demolishing a Palestinian home in the southern Gaza town of Rafah , near the Egyptian border . <p> Eygi 's loved ones have connected with Corrie 's family members , and said they have learned what to expect from their experience . <p> " This is n't a short-term advocacy effort , but something that will take many years but with likely little to show for it , " Bennett said . " The Corries are still doing this work , to this day , 20 years later . " <p> Ali said he hopes President-elect Donald Trump 's administration will be responsive to pressure , adding that any administration should " seek justice for the killing of one of its citizens by a foreign power . " But Bennett and Ali hope they do n't have to keep trying to convince state officials to do so . <p> " Having to spend time doing this kind of advocacy is kind of robbing the time I have to spend in proximity to the memory of Aysenur , " Ali said . " Every day , it gets a little bit harder to remember her . " <p> Stay informed on what is happening in Clark County , WA and beyond for only <p> Get a rundown of the latest local and regional news every Mon-Fri morning . <h> Support local journalism <p> Your tax-deductible donation to The Columbian 's Community Funded Journalism program will contribute to better local reporting on key issues , including homelessness , housing , transportation and the environment . Reporters will focus on narrative , investigative and data-driven storytelling . <p> Local journalism needs your help . It 's an essential part of a healthy community and a healthy democracy .
