<p> The Hostages Families Forum held a rally in Tel Aviv on Saturday , demanding a deal that would guarantee the return of all the hostages . <p> The rally was addressed by members of the families and relatives of the hostages , as well as hostages who were returned in the previous deal . <p> In the statement of the families , Einav Zangauker , mother of hostage Matan Zangauker , who earlier this week marked his second birthday in Hamas captivity , spoke and said , " We heard tonight that the prime minister said in an interview with foreign media that he would not agree to end the war ' before we remove Hamas . ' This is another attempt at torpedoing the deal . " <p> " The same prime minister who deliberately did not act to replace the Hamas government is now using this as an excuse to prolong the war and abandon the hostages . Netanyahu wants to bury my Matan in the tunnels . An end to the war in Gaza and a comprehensive deal to return all the hostages - this is in Israel 's interest ! Hamas has been defeated . Its leadership has been eliminated . There is no justification for continuing the war in Gaza . " Jerusalem - the protest march arrived at Paris square , calling for the release of all 100 hostages in a single deal . ( credit : ORNA KUPFERMAN ) <h> Weak , vile , evil <p> Danny Elgert , brother of hostage Itzik Elgert , said , " This week , the vile and evil manner in which Netanyahu 's nest is run together with his family members , and how the poison machine is operated , was revealed . " <p> " We are once again reminded of the hate campaign that came out of Netanyahu 's office and was launched against us , the families , and against a deal . A fraud operation on behalf of Netanyahu and his people was launched on the public in order to torpedo a deal . Netanyahu , look the families in the eye ! You humiliated us , trampled us , turned us into public enemies . The only thing left for you to do is fulfill the will of the people , end the war . " . <p> Yotam Cohen , Nimrod Cohen 's brother , said , " When we are all in a warm , dry house with a stove and blankets , the kidnapped are freezing in wet , dark tunnels . They are in immediate danger of death and suffering and are in continuous torture . " <p> " There is a heartless and inhuman government here that abandons its own citizens and soldiers , a depraved government that commits crimes against its own people . Get them out of there ! Get my brother Nimrod Cohen and all the hostages out of there ! "
