<h> " Those who do not contribute to the national effort would do well , at the very least , not to hinder it , " Netanyahu responded . <p> Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and National Unity head Benny Gantz exchanged barbs on Sunday after Gantz claimed that Netanyahu had attempted to sabotage a hostage deal by speaking on the subject to foreign media . <p> " Netanyahu is once again running to the foreign media , " Gantz initially said . " While the negotiators are working , Netanyahu is once again sabotaging it . You have no mandate to once again thwart the return of our hostages for political considerations . Returning the hostages is the right thing to do -- morally , in terms of security , and nationally . " <p> " We are in sensitive times -- life and death truly rest on the power of words . To quote Netanyahu from just a week ago : ' The less we talk , the better , ' " Gantz said . <p> " Yet , like a rerun , Netanyahu is once again rushing to foreign media and talking endlessly , and once again , a ' diplomatic source ' provided a briefing over the weekend . While the negotiators are working , Netanyahu is again undermining the process , " Gantz continued , alluding to the interview Netanyahu held with Wall Street Journal editorial writer Elliot Kaufman , published Friday . <p> " One more thing -- you said in the Wall Street Journal that Hamas can not rule Gaza because it is 30 miles from Tel Aviv , " Gantz said , speaking directly to Netanyahu . " Let me remind you : Hamas can not rule Gaza because it is two kilometers from Nir Oz and Be'eri , and four kilometers from Sderot . Their security must be restored , and the hostages taken from their beds there must be brought back . " A man walks past posters of hostages kidnapped during the deadly October 7 , 2023 attack by Hamas , amid the ongoing conflict in Gaza between Israel and Hamas , in Tel Aviv , Israel , November 25 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/Stoyan Nenov TPX IMAGES OF THE DAY ) <p> Netanyahu responded to Gantz , saying that he should not " lecture " the prime minister on the need to eliminate Hamas or the " sacred mission of bringing our hostages home . " <p> " Since Gantz left the government for political reasons , the prime minister has led efforts to deliver a severe blow to Hamas , crush Hezbollah , and take direct action against Iran -- measures that ultimately contributed to the fall of Assad 's regime in Syria . Those who do not contribute to the national effort would do well , at the very least , not to hinder it , " Netanyahu responded . He also slammed Gantz for " submissively calling for an end to the war even before entering Rafah . " <p> Following this response , Gantz then told Netanyahu not to be a " serial coward . " <p> " You were afraid to dismantle the coalition , and only Gantz 's persistence brought back over 100 hostages . You were afraid to launch a maneuver in Gaza , and it was Gantz who pushed to move forward . You trembled at the thought of starting a northern campaign to return residents to their homes on September 1 , and it was Gantz who pressured you . You know very well that if the situation had n't been forced upon you - you would never have acted . " <p> " Netanyahu , you have already sabotaged the possibility of a hostage deal in the past out of fear of breaking up the coalition . We wo n't let you do it again when a real deal is on the table . Netanyahu -- stop being afraid , " Gantz stressed . <p> " On October 7 , I was woken up at 6:29 a.m . There was a large-scale attack from Gaza , and it was clear this was not a routine round of fighting . I arrived at the Kirya , our military headquarters , convened the cabinet , and declared war , " Netanyahu recounted to Kaufman . " I said it was going to be a long war . " <p> " On October 8 , Hezbollah entered the fighting . At that point , we were facing two fronts , " he continued . <p> " On October 9 , I told the heads of the communities near Gaza , ' I ask you to stand firm because we are going to change the Middle East . ' On October 11 , the defense minister and the chief of staff suggested we shift our focus northward against Hezbollah , leaving Hamas in the south unanswered , " the prime minister added . <p> " I said , ' We can not do that . It is unwise to fight on two fronts simultaneously . One massive front at a time , ' " Netanyahu explained , justifying his decision to avoid confronting the northern threat at the onset of the war .
