<p> An injured Palestinian man is transported to the emergency ward of the Kamal Adwan Hospital , following an Israeli strike in Beit Lahia in the northern Gaza Strip on November 21 , 2024 . <p> AFP via Getty Images <p> Health officials in Gaza say there is only one hospital remaining that is providing humanitarian aid services in the northern part of the strip amid the ongoing Israel-Hamas war . <p> In early October , Israel Defense Forces reportedly ordered evacuations of several regions in the north of Gaza , doctors at the hospitals told ABC News , including Beit Hanoun , Jabalia and Beit Lahia , as they work to surround Hamas fighters who are allegedly in the area . <p> Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya , director of Kamal Adwan Hospital in Beit Lahia , said in a recorded message shared over the weekend on an X account by the director general of the Hamas-run Gaza Ministry of Health that his hospital is " currently the only hospital still providing humanitarian services in northern Gaza . " <p> Between 50,000 and 75,000 residents are estimated to remain in northern Gaza , according to the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs . <p> In additional comments Sunday , sent via a WhatsApp group the Gaza Ministry of Heath uses to share updates with the media , Safiya said there are currently 400 civilians inside Kamal Adwan Hospital , including babies in the neonatal unit who are in incubators and in need of oxygen . He further said that despite orders from the IDF to evacuate Kamal Adwan Hospital , there is no way to safely evacuate patients from the hospital . <p> " We have repeatedly requested assistance and have openly invited Israeli forces to see for themselves the internal workings of our hospitals so that we may continue to serve our population without fear of attack and death . These calls were rejected , " Safiya said in Sunday 's comments . " We also call on the world to witness , that if Kamal Adwan Hospital is decommissioned , there will be no way of preserving conditions of life to the remaining 75,000+ civilians in north Gaza . " <p> An injured Palestinian man is transported to the emergency ward of the Kamal Adwan Hospital , following an Israeli strike in Beit Lahia in the northern Gaza Strip on November 21 , 2024 . <p> AFP via Getty Images <p> ABC News has not been able to confirm if and when Israeli forces were invited to enter Kamal Adwan Hospital , as Safiya claims , nor when the invitation was allegedly rejected . <p> Safiya also said that Kamal Adwan Hospital has been the target of IDF attacks as recently as Sunday . <p> " Direct attacks on the hospitals began with no warnings and no civilian protection permitted by the occupation , in the way of normal procedures expected in a combat zone , " he said in the Sunday message to reporters . " International Committee of the Red Cross and other U.N . bodies were consistently denied access to intervene . As a result , significant harm and loss to civilian life and means of preserving life resulted in these attacks on hospitals . " <p> " Regarding Kamal Adwan Hospital , IDF forces are operating in its vicinity but not within its premises , " the IDF said Monday in response to an ABC News request for comment , adding that the IDF " is unaware of any evacuation order of the hospital . " The IDF response did not address whether they attacked the hospital . <p> Israel has claimed that Hamas uses hospitals , and networks of tunnels beneath them , as bases to conduct and promote terrorist activity , and U.S. officials have backed this claim . Hamas , however , has repeatedly denied it . <p> Israeli forces have also insisted that they have tried to limit civilian casualties as much as possible over the course of the war . <p> The latest update from the Gaza Ministry of Health comes as UNICEF says children in the most northern part of Gaza have been largely unable to receive humanitarian assistance for more than 10 weeks due to the ongoing siege . <p> More than 96% of women and children in Gaza are currently surviving on a diet of rationed flour , lentils , pasta and canned food , which does not meet their nutritional needs , according to UNICEF . <p> " Gaza must be one of the most heartbreaking places on earth for humanitarians . Every small effort to save a child 's life is undone by fierce devastation , " UNICEF Communication Specialist Rosalia Bollen said during a press briefing at the Palais des Nations in Geneva on Friday . <p> " For over 14 months , children have been at the sharp edge of this nightmare , with more than 14,500 children reportedly killed , thousands more injured , " she continued . " As we approach the end of the year , a time when the world strives to celebrate family , peace and togetherness , in Gaza the reality for over a million children is fear , utter deprivation and unimaginable suffering . " <p> Since Hamas launched its surprise terrorist attack on Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , more than 1,700 Israelis have been killed and more than 8,700 have been injured , according to Israeli officials . In Gaza , more than 45,300 people have been killed , and more than 107,700 people have been injured , according to the Gaza Ministry of Health .
