<p> Kamal Adwan Hospital has been hit multiple times over the past three months by Israeli troops waging an offensive against Hamas fighters in surrounding neighborhoods , according to staff . The ministry said a strike on the hospital a day earlier killed five medical staff . Hamas has been designated as a terrorist organization by the United States , Canada and the European Union . <p> Israel 's military said it was conducting operations against Hamas infrastructure and fighters in the area and had ordered people out of the hospital , but said it had not entered the complex as of Friday night . It repeated claims that Hamas fighters operate inside Kamal Adwan but provided no evidence . Hospital officials have denied that . <p> The Health Ministry said troops forced medical personnel and patients to assemble in the yard and remove their clothes . Some were led to an unknown location , while some patients were sent to the nearby Indonesian Hospital , which was knocked out of operation after an Israel raid this week . <p> Israeli troops during raids frequently carry out mass detentions , stripping men to their underwear for questioning in what the military says is a security measure as they search for Hamas fighters . <p> The Associated Press does n't have access to Kamal Adwan , but armed plainclothes members of the Hamas-led police forces have been seen in other hospitals , maintaining security but also controlling access to parts of the facilities . <p> A woman sits outside a tent made locally from pieces of cloth and nylon , in a camp for internally displaced Palestinians at the beachfront in Deir al-Balah , central Gaza Strip , Friday , Dec. 27 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Abdel Kareem Hana ) <p> The Health Ministry said Israeli troops also set fires in several parts of Kamal Adwan , including the lab and surgery department . It said 25 patients and 60 health workers remained in the hospital . The account could not be independently confirmed , and attempts to reach hospital staff were unsuccessful . <p> " Fire is ablaze everywhere in the hospital , " an unidentified staff member said in an audio message posted on social media accounts of hospital director Hossam Abu Safiya . The staffer said some evacuated patients had been unhooked from oxygen . <p> " While IDF troops were not in the hospital , a small fire broke out in an empty building inside the hospital that is under control , " he said Friday night . He said a preliminary investigation found " no connection " between military activity and the fire . <p> The Israeli military heavily restricts the movements of Palestinians in Gaza and has barred foreign journalists from entering the territory throughout the war , making it difficult to verify information . <p> " These actions put the lives of all of these people in even more danger than what they faced before , " U.N . spokesperson Stephanie Tremblay told journalists , and noted colleagues ' reports of " significant damage " to the hospital . It should be protected as international law requires , she added . <h> A largely isolated north <p> Since October , Israel 's offensive has virtually sealed off the northern Gaza areas of Jabaliya , Beit Hanoun and Beit Lahiya and leveled large parts of them . Tens of thousands of Palestinians were forced out but thousands are believed to remain in the area , where Kamal Adwan and two other hospitals are located . Troops raided Kamal Adwan in October , and on Tuesday troops stormed and evacuated the Indonesian Hospital . <p> The Israeli rights group Physicians for Human Rights-Israel this week petitioned Israel 's High Court of Justice , seeking a halt to military attacks on Kamal Adwan . It warned that forcibly evacuating the hospital would " abandon thousands of residents in northern Gaza . " Before the latest deaths Thursday , the group documented five other staffers killed by Israeli fire since October . <p> Israel launched its campaign in Gaza vowing to destroy Hamas after the group 's Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack on southern Israel in which terrorists killed around 1,200 people and abducted some 250 others . Around 100 Israelis remain captive in Gaza , around a third believed to be dead . <p> Israel 's nearly 15-month-old campaign of bombardment and offensives has devastated the territory 's health sector . A year ago , it carried out raids on hospitals in northern Gaza , including Kamal Adwan , Indonesian and al-Awda Hospital , saying they served as bases for Hamas , though it presented little evidence . <p> Israel 's campaign has killed more than 45,400 Palestinians , more than half women and children , and wounded more than 108,000 others , according to the Health Ministry . Its count does not distinguish between civilians and combatants . <h> Deaths from the cold in Gaza <p> Children and adults , many barefoot , huddled Friday on the cold sand in tents whose plastic and cloth sheets whipped in the wind . Overnight temperatures can dip into the 40s Fahrenheit ( below 10 Celsius ) , and sea spray from the Mediterranean can dampen tents just steps away . <p> " I swear to God , their mother and I cover ourselves with one blanket and we cover ( their five children ) with three blankets that we got from neighbors . Sea waters drowned everything that was ours , " said Muhammad al-Sous , displaced from Beit Lahiya in the north . <p> The children collect plastic bottles to make fires , and pile under the blankets when their only set of clothes is washed and dried in the wind . <p> At least three babies in Gaza have died from exposure to cold in recent days , doctors there have said , and the Health Ministry said an adult -- a nurse who worked at the European Hospital -- also died this week . <p> Khaled and Keath reported from Cairo . Associated Press writer Edith M. Lederer at the United Narions contributed to this report .
