<h> Houthis brag about thirteen attacks on Israel - analysis <h> An IRNA report indicates how the Houthis are carrying out their attacks in order to show off their capabilities to the Iranian regime . <p> Armed Houthi followers hold RPG launchers as they take part in a parade during a protest to decry the U.S.-led strikes on Houthi targets and to show support to Palestinians in the Gaza Strip , amid the ongoing conflict between Israel and the Palestinian Islamist group Hamas , near Sanaa , Yemen Januar ( photo credit : REUTERS/KHALED ABDULLAH ) <p> The Iranian-backed Houthis say that they have carried out 13 attacks on Israel over the last ten days . The claims were repeated by Iran 's state media . This indicates how the Houthis are carrying out their attacks in order to show off their capabilities to the Iranian regime . <p> The IRNA report said that according to " sources , the group said in a statement that these attacks were in line with support for Palestinians in the Gaza Strip and in response to the regime 's aggression against Yemen . " <p> The report went on to note that the spokesperson for the group " was cited by media as saying that most of these operations targeted the Tel Aviv region in central Israel . " The Houthis have launched numerous missile attacks on Israel over the last two weeks . <h> Houthis escalated attacks <p> This is one of the first indications of how the Houthis view their escalation . It is clear they have escalated attacks in December , with ballistic missiles launched every tow days at Israel during the last two weeks of December . The report says the " attacks were carried out from December 19 to 29 . <p> On Saturday , Ansarullah also targeted the Navatim Air Base in southern Israel , in the Negev region , with a ' Palestine 2 ' type hypersonic ballistic missile , which the resistance group said was successful . " This is important because it indicates what the targets of the Houthi attacks have been . Security forces loyal to Yemen 's Huthi movement march in the Huthi-run capital Sanaa in support of the Palestinians and against the US and Israel , on December 18 , 2024. ( credit : MOHAMMED HUWAIS/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> The Iranian report also claimed the Houthis have targeted Ben-Gurion International airport . They took credit for preventing flights temporarily to the airport . The Houthis " said the attack was in response to Israeli airstrikes on Sana'a and Hudaydah in the past few days . Yemeni armed forces have threatened to expand their range of targets in Israel and to respond with countermeasures to any escalation by Tel Aviv . " <p> This is an important indication of how the Houthis are attempting to replace other Iranian-backed proxies as the main front against Israel . At the same time this week , Iran 's president has called for closer ties with Oman . <p> Oman is a neighbor of Yemen . " Pezeshkian hailed the longstanding friendly relationship between Iran and Oman and emphasized that further development of bilateral ties is of paramount importance to Iran , " Iran 's state media said . Iran 's leader also said he supports regional peace .
