@@33195484 <p> This is the second of the three part article based on the writer 's recent visit to China <p> Lessons for Lanka in the transformation of a centrally controlled economy to a social market economyBy Ameen Izzadeen caption id= " attachment209544 " align= " alignright " width= " 300 " caption= " To Tiananmen with love : A large number of people from all parts of China visit the Square . For most , it 's a dream-come-true visit . " /caption Tiananmen Square is an economic indicator , said our tour guide as we discussed briefly the global concerns over China 's slowdown . We know economists use consumer price indices , stock market indices , gross domestic product and the strength of the local currency as indicators to judge the economic performance of a country , but a capital 's main square being used as an economic indicator is news to us . Our tour guy , Mr. Rocky -- that was what he wanted us to call him -- has an answer . Mr. Rocky was a ten year-old boy when the Tiananmen Square protests for greater political freedom took place in 1989 . He said he grew up with the change that transformed China 's economy from a centrally controlled state economy to the present social market economy . caption id= " attachment209545 " align= " alignleft " width= " 300 " caption= " Mr Rocky , our tour guide , says the crowd at Tiananmen Square is an economic indicator " /caption He said his economic barometer was the crowd strength at Tiananmen Square : The bigger the crowd , the stronger the economy . We were at Tiananmen Square on Sunday August 28 -- hours after we arrived in Beijing on a ten-day tour organised by the Chinese embassy for 17 Sri Lankan journalists . The crowd at Tiananmen Square was so overwhelming that Mr. Rocky had to warn us not to lose sight of him . He carried a red flag attached to a long stick as he zigzagged through the hundreds of thousands of happy faces at the 440,500 square metre square -- the size of about 30 cricket grounds . Just arrived in the country , we followed him , like a bunch of schoolchildren on an excursion . People came from all parts of China . The young and the old alike were seen taking pictures , with selfie sticks galore . Their looks indicated that they were economically well off , cultured and that they have surplus money to spend on travel , which is now made easy by the super-grade road networks and transport systems . We learnt that China 's domestic tourism has been growing by ten percent for the past decade or so and it constitutes 4 percent of China 's GDP of 9 trillion dollars.If Chinese citizens have only one chance to visit a city in their life time , said Mr. Rocky , they would choose Beijing . If they were told that they could go to only one place in Beijing , he said they would select Tiananmen Square . Tiananmen in Chinese means the Gate of Heavenly Peace . Since the Communist revolution of 1949 , the Gate , built in the 15th century during the Ming dynasty , has become the symbol of state power . Communism is not dead The Gate carries a portrait of Mao Zedong , who gave leadership to the people 's revolution in 1949 . It opens the way to the Forbidden City that tells stories about not only the Ming Dynasty rulers who built it but also about China 's rise and fall , the dirty Opium Wars the Europeans foisted on the Chinese and the shenanigans surrounding China 's politics . caption id= " attachment209546 " align= " alignright " width= " 300 " caption= " Through the Gates of Heavenly Peace to the Forbidden City " /caption Apart from the Forbidden City , the square also houses the Great Hall of the People where China 's parliament or the National People 's Congress meets , the Monument to the People 's Heroes and the Mausoleum of Mao Zedong . We could feel the devotion with which thousands of people line up to pay their respects to Chairman Mao . The scene belies western media reports which tend to undermine Mao 's legacy and his revolution . Communism is not dead in China . It is still visible in China 's economic success , the credit for which is usually given to Deng Xiaoping who took over the leadership after Mao 's death . But Deng 's reforms would not have succeeded if Mao had not prepared the people for it . He made them to labour in fields and factories , but in the end , they emerged as skilled . Deng gradually and cautiously introduced free market principles into China 's state-controlled economy , keeping one leg on the accelerator and the other on the brakes . He guided China to what is now known among economists as social-market economy , a mix of socialist ideologies and pragmatic free-market concepts . The blue and grey uniform like clothes the Chinese wore during the days of Mao have long since disappeared . Instead of the communist-era clothes that covered the curves of women , in modern China , the clothes many women wear are statements of fashion . The malls are full of international brands while on the roads , upmarket cars such as Mercedes Benz , Audis and BMWs -- all made in China -- are commonplace . Yet the Communist era 's commitment to hard work can be seen in the people as China is on the threshold of becoming the world 's number one economy . How did China achieve this remarkable economic feat ? During our visit to Haitian textile factory in Quanzhou ( pronounced Chanzou ) , we found the answer . Deng 's reforms began in the agricultural sector and gradually extended to industry and the service sector . Infrastructure building , public utilities and the energy sectors were with the state . caption id= " attachment209547 " align= " alignleft " width= " 300 " caption= " Picture postcard beauty : The Kunming 's wetland park , a main component of Kunming 's city-building project " /caption When the reforms took root , it brought together Mao 's small entrepreneur , academic and the skilled worker . With the state providing financial assistance , the three clicked to form a venture . The Haitian textile factory which specialises in sports fashion under a number of international brands was one such combination . It was set up in 1994 . Company officials told us they not only pay attention to quality , but also to research and development . That was the secret of the company 's success , they said . As the fledgling private sector thrived under Deng 's reforms , the country was also opened up for foreign direct investments . More sweeping reforms were introduced in 2005 , opening up the infrastructure , public utilities and the energy sectors for private sector investment . Privatisation strategy In recent months , Sri Lanka 's Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe has been reiterating at public meetings that Deng found Sri Lanka 's free trade zone model appealing and introduced it in China . While the model took China to the stars , Sri Lanka was plagued by a 30-year-war and corrupt politicians . But Sri Lanka can learn much from China 's experience , especially lessons in privatising state-enterprises . Under Deng 's reforms , small-scale state enterprises were privatised or closed ; but large-scale ones were restructured . Some were merged and made into corporations and allowed to raise funds through the stock market . Unlike Sri Lankan state-sector workers who have become the pawns of their political masters masquerading as union leaders , China 's state-sector workers did not strike or accuse Deng of selling state resources . They knew it was the way forward and cooperated with Deng . Among the state enterprises that were restructured were the state-owned China Harbour Engineering Company Group and the China Road and Bridge Group . They were merged to form China Communications Construction Company ( CCCC ) . China Harbour Engineering Co Ltd ( CHEC ) , a subsidiary of CCCC , is today one of the biggest construction companies in the world . It built the Hambantota Port and has won the contract to build the International Financial Centre or the Port City in Colombo . During our stay in China , whichever way we turned and wherever we went , we saw the construction of new roads , flyovers , skyscrapers and large-scale projects -- a city-based economic strategy to develop . The people were happy to see their cities taking a new shape and were grateful to Mao 's groundwork and Deng 's reforms . caption id= " attachment209548 " align= " alignright " width= " 200 " caption= " Zheng He : Kunming 's connection to the ancient Maritime Silk Road " /caption During our visit to Kunming , the city of eternal spring -- its temperature averages 20 Celsius throughout the year -- in the South West of the country , the city 's Foreign Affairs Office officials took us to two mega project sites . Kunming is the capital city of China 's Yunnan Province , which shares borders with Myanmar , Laos and Vietnam . This beautiful mountainous city some 1,892 metres above sea level is also the hometown of the famous Chinese Mariner Zheng He . We visited the Zheng He theme park and museum . In the first part of this article published last week , we said an imaginary silk thread that connected the ancient Maritime Silk Road and the modern Maritime Silk Road followed us wherever we went during our stay in China . The silk thread was visible at the Zheng He Park , where archaeological evidence was shown linking Sri Lanka and Zheng He , a hero of the ancient Maritime Silk Road . It was also visible at the sites of the two mega projects . Green projects The US$ 6 billion Kunming Financial Centre project site , reminded us of the Port City or Financial Centre project the Chinese will build in Sri Lanka . The project is part of Yunnan 's " gateway strategy , " with which it seeks to boost trade with South and Southeast Asian nations . We visited the Kunming Dianchi Convention Centre , a part of the project . The showpiece convention centre hosted the China-South Asia Expo in June this year . Sri Lanka , whose national carrier operates two flights a week to Kunming , sent a large trade delegation to the Kunming Expo . Similar expos are held to promote trade with South East Asian nations also , regardless of political differences over South China Sea disputes . The trade shows appear to underscore China 's policy of promoting peace through trade . We were also taken to the Kunming Dianchi International City Wetland Park Project that was being built around the wetlands and the Dianchi Lake . The economy of Yunnan and its capital city Kunming thrives on tourism . The US$ 12 billion project includes a Disneyland-like theme park , high-rise apartment complexes , business districts and shopping malls and is aimed at achieving higher living standards for its citizens and a faster economic growth for the city . The mega projects , we were told , were environment friendly . City officials told us that they were committed to the cause of protecting the environment . They said eighty percent of the city 's energy needs were met by green energy sources such as solar power , wind power and hydro power . Wetland Park project officials said the project was a combination of the area 's ecological contribution -- its topography , greenery and hydrological resources -- and the development needs of the city . Riding an open electric cart , we enjoyed the beauty of the park . It was certainly a delight to the eye and a statement that spoke about China 's city-building capabilities . Figures may show that China 's economy has slowed down , but the ground reality indicates there is more room for growth in Social-Market China . The Communist Party seems to know when to step on the accelerator and where to press the brakes . ( More next week ) London Buddhist Vihara marks 90-year history with exhibitionhttp : **30;877;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 11:14 pmBy Neville de Silva in London A week-long exhibition depicting the 90-year history of the London Buddhist Vihara founded by the Anagarika Dharmapala was held at the Vihara last week . The Vihara has a unique history as the first Buddhist temple to be established outside Asia and the first temple that brought the Buddha Dhamma to the west . Founded in 1926 by the Anagarika Dharmapala , the great Buddhist revivalist and writer who carried the Buddha 's message to the world , the exhibition attracted a wide cross-section of people of different religions and faiths particularly as the Vihara is considered the Centre of Excellence for Theravada Buddhism in the west and performs an important task in the UK including teaching the Dhamma to British-born children and youth of Sri Lankan lineage and to others in the community . Despite some difficult times it faced in the early years , the London Vihara remains the pre-eminent Buddhist Vihara in the UK offering a highly-valued Dhamma Duta service to the British community in the United Kingdom . The Most Venerable Bogoda Seelawimala Thera , the chief monk of the Vihara and the Chief Sangha Nayake of the United Kingdom , in his introductory address set out the outstanding work done by the Anagarika Dharmapala in carrying the Buddha Dhamma to parts of the world that remained unaware of the great and noble teachings . The London Vihara , which is managed by the Anagarika Dharmapala Trust in Sri Lanka , is one of the great achievements of the Anagarika . He said the pictures displayed at the week long exhibition were a testimony to that achievement . The exhibition was officially opened by Lord Nick Bourne , Under-secretary for Communities and Local Government and was attended by several dignitaries including the Mayor of the Borough of Ealing , Dr. Patricia Walker and the President of the Buddhist Society Dr Desmond Biddulph . Jaffna International Cinema Festival for second consecutive yearhttp : **36;909;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 11:12 pmBy Minushi Perera Agenda 14 in collaboration with the Fine Arts Department of the University of Jaffna and Ceylon Theatres presents the Jaffna International Cinema Festival JAFFNAICF ) 2016 from September 23 to 27 in Jaffna . JAFFNAICF 2016 is being held for the second consecutive year to celebrate independent cinema in the peninsula , recovering from the war . Using art to reach out to people , this festival aims to create a space for communities across borders to interact with each other through cinema . " The first Jaffna International Cinema Festival was held in 2015 . We showcased about 22 award-winning and critically acclaimed foreign movies for film lovers in the Jaffna peninsula and also many movies produced by Sri Lankans and about 15 short films by aspiring filmmakers in the north . Following in the footsteps of last year 's success the company hopes to further broaden horizons this year as well , " Ceylon Theatres Manager Marketing Chamal Fonseka said . " This year we will open the festival with an award winning film , ' I , Daniel Blake ' by Ken Loach , which is its Asian premiere and close the festival with an award winning film titled ' Visarani ' from Chennai , India by the well known film director Vetrimaaran , " said the director of JAFFNAICF , Anomaa Rajakaruna . An international jury will select the best debut film of the festival and best short film of the festival . The jury members are , Alice Shih from Canada , Axel Estein from Germany , Gaytri Chatterjee from India and Juan Carlos Lemus Polania from Colombia . Three master classes will be conducted for filmmakers by Andrea Wenzler ( Germany ) on editing , Shanmuga Raja ( India ) on acting , and Shyaman Premasundara ( Sri Lanka ) on sound designing . A competition for the short films will be held and the jury would select the winners . " Tamil cinema celebrates its hundredth anniversary this year but unfortunately due to the 83 riots most of the studios which produced Tamil films were destroyed and we lost the films too . Jaffna International Cinema Festival will be screening ' Kuthuvilakku ' - a well known Sri Lankan Tamil film , " said Anomaa Rajakaruna . See www.jaffnaicf.lk for details of the schedule and cinemas that films are to be **26;947;TOOLONG , here 's a chance to win two GLF passeshttp : **34;975;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 11:11 pmNow here is your chance to show-off your creative abilities , by designing the rooster image of FGLF 's official logo , which is inherent to Galle as the town 's mascot . As history has stated one of the theories of the name " Galle " is that the word is derived from the Dutch word ' Gallus ' which means rooster . Hence why the Dutch have used the rooster as a symbol of Galle . The selected 10 best entries of the " Rooster art competition " will each win two festival passes and your winning Rooster will be displayed at the Fairway Galle Literary Festival 2017 . Any Festival fan from young to old is welcome to participate -- age is no barrier here ! So put your creative caps on .... download the rooster sheet from our website : **29;1011;TOOLONG and please read the competition 's Terms and Conditions before participating . Use any material you like and design a uniquely amazing rooster and post us your entries by November 30th 2016 to FGLF Office 15/1 , Peiris Avenue , Kalubowila , Dehiwala.HSBC gives ear to Music Projecthttp : **33;1042;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 11:08 pmMusic has the power to bring people together . It 's this universal power of music that drew HSBC to support The Music Project to work with Sri Lankan youth to establish a long term initiative of peace building through the twinning of schools and communities through music . HSBC will provide financial support to conduct the Orchestral Programme for 175 children in two rural schools - Pothubowa Maha Vidyalaya in Kurunegala and Mallavi Central College in Mullaitivu for one year . The children will be able to learn orchestral instruments including the recorder , flute , violin , cello , trumpet , clarinet and percussion . They will also benefit from specialist instructors and get the chance to perform and participate in various workshops . " The project evolved in the context of post-conflict Sri Lanka . We wanted the children to have something holistic and therapeutic . The core of the project is cohesion through music but really it 's so much more than that . It empowers them ( and their parents ) , builds confidence and gives them a skill that will stay with them for life , " said Trustee of The Music Project , Shalini Wickramasuriya . Programme Director for The Music Project Saluka Kotagama added , " These children come from remote areas . The project provides them with a positive , uplifting experience that would inspire them to achieve greater things in life . While music is at the core of it , we are also empowering these children with life skills such as confidence , motivation and self-esteem by providing exposure as well as opportunities that would benefit them in any career path they choose . " " We sincerely believe that music is intrinsic to the cultural evolution of a nation . It 's especially important that we look to the future and contribute to developing an empowered younger generation that believes in connectivity and social cohesion . Music is definitely one of the best platforms to achieve this , " said CEO HSBC Sri Lanka and Maldives Patrick Gallagher.Ven . Basnagoda Rahula Thera appointed president of Houston Viharahttp : **34;1077;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 11:07 pmProfessor Ven . Basnagoda Rahula Thera , a popular teacher of Buddhism and meditation , has been appointed president and treasurer of the Houston Buddhist Vihara by Ven . Pannila Ananda Nayaka Thera , former president of the vihara and Chief Incumbent of the Attanagalla Rajamaha Viharaya . The Houston Buddhist Vihara , a prominent Buddhist temple in the United States , serves Sri Lanka , Vietnamese , and mainstream American devotees . Ven . Rahula 's path to success is both laudable and inspirational . Born in the little known village of Basnagoda in the Kegalla district as the only child to his parents , Ven . Rahula entered the Buddhist order as a novice monk at the age of twelve . After receiving his Bachelor 's degree in Buddhist philosophy from the University of Kelaniya , he migrated to the United States , at the invitation of Ven . Ananda Nayaka Thera , in 1992 and soon learned to deliver Dhamma talks to American audiences in English . He also obtained a Master 's degree in literature at the University of Houston-Clear Lake in 1993 . He was also appointed a part time English lecturer at a regional American college . " I was both elated and surprised that I got that teaching position , " says Ven . Rahula , " It was amazing for a Buddhist monk to go to a classroom in a saffron robe and teach English to American students in an American college . " He has also published two books on Buddhism : Beautiful Living : Buddha 's Way to Prosperity , Wisdom , and Inner Peace and Buddha 's Way to Prosperity : at Home , at Work , in the World . Notably , Sir Arthur C. Clarke wrote the forewords to both books . Buddhist scholars say Ven . Rahula 's books are the first to discuss the Buddha 's guidance to his lay followers on secular life.Lions to build paediatric ward for Haltota hospitalhttp : **32;1113;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 11:00 pmThe Centennial Year Legacy Project ( Level 3 ) of Lions Club District 306 A2 was launched recently with the laying of the foundation stone to construct a much needed paediatric ward for the Rural Government Hospital at Haltota in Horana . The funds to construct and equip this ward -- Rs. 3.6 million -- were raised by the Lions of the District . The architectural design was drawn by Asanga Samarasekera Associates who have offered their services pro bono . Construction work is to be completed within nine months . The Chief Guests at the launch was Lion District Governor Dr. Athula Kikkaduwa and his wife Lady Lion Dr. Dhamayanthi . Among the Lions in attendance were Past District Governors : Dr. Nandana Kaluaratchchi , his Dr. Manel , Arjun Abeysinghe , Asanga Samarasekera , Chandra Katuwawela , First Vice District Governor Widyakeerthi Dissanayake , his wife Ajitha , Lion Cabinet Secretary Kumudu Kitsiri , Convention Secretary Kumar Rodrigo , Lion Deputy Cabinet Secretary Somathilake Hettiarachchi , GMT Coordinator Mangala Perera , his wife Lion Anusha and District Centennial Coordinator Farid Abdelcader . This event was coordinated and organised by the Region 5 Zone 1 Chairperson Gihan Perera of the Kananwila/Haltota Lions Club.Is OMP running low on justice for disappearances ? http : **25;1147;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 10:47 pmBy M.C.M. Iqbal In response to Kishali Pinto Jayawardena 's column , ' Focus on Rights ' in the Sunday Times of July 31 , 2016 which I read avariciously , I would like to make some observations as a retired public servant once directly involved in the functioning of commissions of inquiry into disappearances of persons ( COIs ) set up by former President Chandrika Bandaranaike . As she points out quite rightly , the Office of Missing Persons ( OMP Act No.14 of 2016 ) is going to be the first permanent body ' tasked with searching and tracing missing persons ' established without a time frame . Past COIs had a time frame both for the life of the commission and for the period of the incidents to be looked into . But other than that , they too had the power to summon witnesses , access records , obtain information from detention centres and even accept evidence that did not fall within the limitation of the Evidence Ordinance. caption id= " attachment208920 " align= " alignright " width= " 300 " caption= " Relatives of missing people want to know the truth " /caption Yet , as is widely accepted now , all these Commissions failed in their tasks . From the writer 's personal knowledge , these bodies were not to blame for that failure . They laboriously prepared comprehensive reports with appropriate recommendations . These findings were not made available to the public in their entirety . Many of the alleged perpetrators found implicated were also involved in later disappearances . So if this information had been available at that time , many of the subsequent disappearances would not have occurred . Let us examine the provisions of the OMP to see if such a fate would not occur here as well . The OMP Act says that the Right to Information Law will not be applicable to ' confidential ' information made available to the Office . In this writer 's view , this would eventually lead to the same failures of secretive information that befell the findings of the COIs mentioned above . If the OMP is not held to a higher standard , even if a witness wants to release the information to the public , the OMP can hold that back . As Ms. Pinto-Jayawardena has stated in her column , protection of witness information should have been specified more narrowly rather than relying totally on the OMP as to what amounts to ' information received in confidence . ' Most frustratingly , Section 13(2) of the Act says that the findings ' shall not give rise to any criminal or civil liability ' . This is contrary to the expectations of victims who are eager to know what happened to their loved ones . Can they be told after exhaustive investigations that the OMP could not find the missing person and stop at that ? Will a complainant who alleges that a particular person was personally handed over to a particular military officer or taken away by known police officers or other persons be satisfied if the OMP says they can not now be found ? What if the remains of the person concerned are found in one of the graves exhumed and the complainant is told that the OMP has no power to take any further action ? That will create a public uproar . Section 12(i) of the Act states that the OMP can report a possible offence to the relevant law enforcement or prosecuting authority . But that is exactly what happened to the findings of the COIs which provided a list of more than 2,000 persons against whom they found credible evidence of being responsible for disappearances . The files were passed on by the President 's Office to the then Missing Persons Unit of the Attorney General 's Department and to the Disappearances Investigation Unit of the CID . What happened to those cases is history . What is there to prevent the same happening to any cases the OMP may forward to the prosecuting authority ? Section 12 of the Act speaks of the investigative powers of the OMPs . Past COIs had almost the same powers . Investigation units headed by a senior retired Superintendents of Police with a handpicked team of police officers perused Police Information books at police stations . They found names of the ' disappeared ' marked in the Diet Registers but absent in the corresponding entries of persons detained . Also , entries in the running charts of police vehicles mentioned that a team of police officers had visited particular villages at precisely the very same time that ' disappearances ' occurred . This fact was denied when relations inquired . But no action was taken against the alleged perpetrators . The investigation reports gathered dust . What is there to prevent the same thing happening to investigation reports by the OMP ? Section 12(d) gives new powers to exhume suspected grave sites availing of a judicial order . Sufficient funds must be available for this , including mass graves of the late 1980s and early 1990s . Section 12(f) authorises an OMP officer to enter any place of detention without a warrant to look for a missing or disappeared person . This is a power already in the hands of the Human Rights Commission ( HRC ) . The question is , has that power been actually used ? Would the OMP make a difference in this case ? Section 10(e) provides for data on missing persons to be collated . I was involved with the establishment of a Disappearances Data Base by the pre-2005 HRC which was aborted midway . Let us hope that this work would continue . A note on the staffing and financing of the OMP would finally be appropriate . The Secretariat of the OMP does not appear to have a statutory head nor is there a mention of an accountant . Monies would be provided for the OMP from the Consolidated Fund . But the experience of the COIs shows that the financial independence of the OMP would be limited as it will be subservient to the authority of the Secretary to the President who is the Chief Accounting Officer of the Consolidated Fund . This could have been obviated if the Parliament was authorised by the Act to make direct allocation of funds to the OMP as they do to the Bribery Commission and the Commissioner of Elections . These are grave problems in the OMP law as passed by Parliament that come to mind . ( The writer is a retired SLAS officer and was a Secretary to three Commissions of Inquiry into Disappearances . ) The G-20 fiddles while Rome burnshttp : **35;1174;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 10:43 pmBy Somar Wijayadasa NEW YORK ( In Depth News IDN ) - The G-20 Summit in China took place when our world is more divided than ever before , and multi-millions suffer from wars and other calamities. caption id= " attachment208916 " align= " alignright " width= " 300 " caption= " G20 Hangzhou summit " /caption One showpiece of the Summit -- even before it started -- was the decision by United States President Barack Obama and Chinese President Xi Jinping to ratify the Paris Agreement of the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference , a significant achievement considering the fact that US and China are world 's two biggest greenhouse gas emitters that cause global warming . But another major threat to our planet " nuclear weapons " was ignored . Obama can at least partially realise the vision of " a world without nuclear weapons " that he first laid out in Prague , in 2009 , by unilaterally announcing a " no-first-use " option of ever initiating the use of US nuclear weapons , and a " no-launch-on-warning " option of unleashing nuclear weapons immediately after detecting an apparent nuclear strike by another state . If Obama ( Nobel Peace Laureate ) makes that bold decision , all nuclear powers would follow his lead . The possibility is not without precedents as President John Kennedy said that these nuclear weapons " must be abolished before they abolish us " , and President Ronald Reagan said : " We must never stop at all until we see the day when nuclear arms have been banished from the face of the earth . " Since he became President , Obama has prioritized his " Pivot to Asia " project to shift US diplomatic and military resources away from the Middle East and into Southeast Asian countries in order to counter China 's growing dominance in the region and ensure a foothold in growing markets -- even though China views it as meddling in its backyard . Obama has bolstered economic and diplomatic ties with Vietnam , Cambodia and Myanmar and has deployed a rotational force of marines to Australia , a missile-defence system to protect South Korea from the North 's missiles , and has made a strong case in providing military aid and US support for regional cooperation in addressing maritime disputes in the South China Sea . At the Summit , Obama asserted that " The United States is more deeply engaged across the Asia-Pacific than we have been in decades " and that " Our position is stronger and we 've sent a clear message that as a Pacific nation , we are here to stay . " Bidding farewell to G-20 , Obama went to Vientiane to attend the ASEAN conference where he described Laos as the most heavily bombed nation in human history . He said that " Eight bombs a minute were dropped on average during the Vietnam war between 1964 and 1973 -- more than the amount we dropped on Germany and Japan during World War II " . The US flew 580,344 bombing missions over Laos , dropping 260 million bombs -- equating to two million tons of ordnance . Obama committed $90 million to clean up an estimated 80 million unexploded bombs that still litter the impoverished Laos . Apart from the death and destruction in Laos , casualties in the Vietnam War are estimated at 1,313,000 Vietnamese deaths , and nearly 60,000 American soldiers killed-in-action , over 150,000 wounded , and some 1,600 missing . Referring only to the ravages in Laos , Obama said that " Villages and entire valleys were obliterated , and countless civilians were killed . That conflict was another reminder that , whatever the cause , whatever our intentions , war inflicts a wrenching toll , especially on innocent men , women and children " . While we know that Russia , China and North Korea are openly hostile to Washington , other countries in the region that know about past U.S. policies in Vietnam , Laos , Cambodia and Korea may not easily fall in line behind the United States . State of the world : Pathetic Conflicts in Syria , Libya , Iraq and Yemen , the violence in Nigeria , Democratic Republic of the Congo , Central African Republic , and South Sudan are raging unabated . The United Nations Children 's Fund ( UNICEF ) reports of " losing a generation of children " because about 13.7 million school age children in these conflict zones are not in school , and that 50 million children worldwide have been driven from their homes -- 28 million due to conflicts and the rest to escape extreme poverty , trafficking , kidnapping , rape and even murder . Syria , today , presents the biggest humanitarian crisis thanks to the Arab Spring protests that erupted in 2011 . It has so far killed over 500,000 Syrians . According to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees ( UNHCR ) , 13.5 million people in Syria need humanitarian assistance , 4.8 million Syrians have fled to Turkey , Lebanon , Jordan , Egypt and Iraq , and 6.6 million are internally displaced within Syria . In the Syrian conflict , Russia and the U.S. have largely backed opposing sides . This quagmire is a gross humiliation on the United Nations and all world leaders for their lack of vision and enthusiasm to resolve this humanitarian crisis . As of this writing , U.S. and Russia stuck a deal for a ceasefire even though several previous truces failed . In addition to above-mentioned man-made disasters , the UN World Food Programme ( WFP ) pointed out that some 795 million people in the world do not have enough food to lead a healthy life . The vast majority of the world 's hungry people live in developing countries , where 12.9 percent of the population is undernourished . The UN confirms that 783 million people do not have access to clean water . The Asian Development Bank ( ADB ) reveals that over 1.7 billion people in Asia and the Pacific lack access to sanitation , and UNICEF data shows that some 594 million people in India -- nearly 50 percent of country 's population defecate in the open . That is the true state of the world , and a damning indictment on our world leaders . China and Russia : Game changers in international relations Last year , Russia signed a $400-billion deal to supply China with 38 billion cubic metres of gas annually from 2018 for 30 years ; a 457 miles gas pipeline ; a $25 billion deal to boost Chinese lending to Russian firms ; a $2 billion investment fund targeting agricultural projects ; a deal for Russia 's Sberbank to open a $1 billion credit line with China Development Bank ; and the two countries would jointly invest $19.7 billion in a rail link between Moscow and the Russian city of Kazan to be completed by 2020 . Among other mega projects under way are the Shanghai Co-operation Organization , String of Pearls Project , China Africa Forum , the New Silk Road ( One Belt , One Road ) initiative and the Asian Infrastructure and Investment Bank ( AIIB ) . The two nations seek to integrate the New Silk Road with the Eurasian Economic Union project to overcome the economic difficulties they have faced . During his visit to the US , in 2015 , Xi announced that China would create a $3.1 billion Fund to help developing countries tackle climate change , and another Fund worth $2 billion to aid developing countries to implement the post-2015 Development Agenda . In 2006 , 19 Asian and Eurasian countries agreed to build a Trans-Asian Railway network . China is building a 427 km long railroad from China through Laos to Thailand 's border and a $3 billion railroad from Addis Ababa , Ethiopia to Djibouti where China is investing $400 million in modernizing Djibouti 's seaport . A former Chinese diplomat confided in me that " China is eyeing acquiring the American military base in Djibouti " . While the balance of world power is clearly changing , China has been building economic blocs with Russia , Central Asia , Africa and Asia while United States has been building military blocs and bases around China in Taiwan , Japan and South Korea . It is time for all world leaders to shed their differences and military ambitions , and work together to make our world a safe place for all to live in peace . ( Somar Wijayadasa was a UNESCO delegate to the UN General Assembly and a Representative of UNAIDS at the United Nations . ) Sri Lanka a pearl in China 's past , present and futurehttp : **34;1211;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 10:00 pmFascinating stories about a Lankan prince , Maritime Silk Road and the science of teaBy Ameen Izzadeen What have a 19th generation Chinese descendant of a Sri Lankan prince , an 11th century mariner and three key cities in China got to do with 17 Sri Lankan journalists , who have just returned from a ten-day trip to China , courtesy the Chinese embassy in Colombo ? caption id= " attachment208892 " align= " alignright " width= " 300 " caption= " Plain tea and painting : Tea ceremony at the Anxi tea distribution centre " /caption The answer : A fine silk thread connecting the ancient Maritime Silk Road with the new Maritime Silk Road that symbolises China 's rising soft power . As we visited the three cities in our itinerary -- first , the capital Beijing in the North-East , then the port city of Quanzhou ( pronounced Chanzhou ) in the South-East and Kumming the city of eternal spring in the West -- the imaginary silk thread attached to us kept extending , just as the real silk thread extended from the boiled cocoon as the spool turned . The imaginary thread spun a tapestry depicting the places we visited , China 's glorious past and its dream for the future , with Sri Lanka shining like a pearl on the Maritime Silk Road -- a key component of China 's ambitious One-Road-One-Belt ( OBOR ) project . What do you think of the new Maritime Silk Road ? This question was posed to me by a young Chinese journalist , who was among an army of media personnel covering our visit to the graveyard where a son of Parakramabahu VI and his descendants are believed to have been buried . Parakramabahu VI ruled Sri Lanka from the Kotte Kingdom from around the second decade in the 15th century to 1459 , " Well , it is a good idea , because enhanced trade ties can not only lead to an economic boom but also diminish the chances of countries going to war . We can achieve world peace . We must promote it , " I said , standing close to a place where Chinese archaeologists found tombstones describing the burial of the descendants of a Sri Lankan prince . He was known in China as Prince Ba Lai Na. caption id= " attachment208894 " align= " alignleft " width= " 300 " caption= " Intangible world heritage : The house where the Lankan prince lived ( left ) and the place where he is believed to have been buried . Chinese officials seek UNESCO recognition for the two places which are linked to the ancient Maritime Silk Road " /caption Love in Quanzhou The graveyard lies a short drive from our hotel in Quanzhou , which was the starting point of the ancient maritime silk Road . It is said that Zheng He , the renowned Chinese mariner , began at least six of his voyages from this port . Zheng He , a Chinese Muslim eunuch who served Emperor Yongle of the Ming dynasty , was no stranger to Sri Lanka . On his maiden voyage and subsequent voyages , he visited Sri Lanka . It was he who is believed to have taken the Sri Lankan prince to China to meet the emperor . The prince on his journey back fell ill after he reached Quanzhou . It was winter , too . After his recovery , which took a long time , he had decided to remain in Quanzhou , where he fell in love with a noblewoman of Chinese-Arab origin with the surname Pu . After the Sri Lankan prince 's marriage to this woman , the emperor naturalised him and gave him the name Shi . When we visited the ancient cemetery , Quanzhou 's cultural affairs officials told us that the totem on the tombstones showed two snakes in an art form that was popular in the 15th century Sri Lanka . More research was being carried out in both China and Sri Lanka , they said , adding that more evidence would expedite the process of declaring the story of the Sri Lankan prince and the artefacts associated with him as UNESCO world intangible cultural heritage . The Quanzhou port already enjoys this status following UNESCO 's recognition of the ancient Maritime Silk Road in 1991 . " Intangible Cultural Heritage " is defined by UNESCO as practices , customs , knowledge and skills -- as well as instruments , objects , artefacts and cultural spaces associated with them -- that communities , groups and , in some cases , individuals recognise as part of their cultural heritage . Our hosts , Quanzhou 's Foreign Affairs Committee officials , were keen to take us to as many such places of cultural importance as possible so as to underscore the links between Quanzhou , Sri Lanka and the ancient Maritime Silk Road . The princess First to a living heritage , a princess : We fondly called her Kumarikawa , meaning princess in Sinhala . Wearing a blue dress that gave her the appearance of a princess , 53-year-old Xushi Yine welcomed us to her handicraft and antique shop in Quanzhou . She said that to see us in her shop , where pictures she had taken of herself with Sri Lankan dignitaries such as Prime Ministers Ranil Wickremesinghe and D.M. Jayaratne and Speaker Karu Jayasuriya adorned the walls , gave her the feeling that she was being visited by her long lost relatives . Xushi was a 19th generation descendant of the Lankan prince , as to whose real identity opinions differ among Sri Lankan historians . She took us to a house which was a stone 's throw away from her shop . " This was where the Sri Lankan prince lived 600 years ago , " she told us . " The house has , over the years , undergone renovations , while its ownership has changed from the Shi family . " Although owned by its present occupiers , the house is under the care of the Quanzhou municipal government , because it is part of the ancient Maritime Silk Road heritage . Xushi was zeroed in as a present day descendant of the Sri Lankan prince , following the Sri Lankan government 's request to the Chinese government in 1986 to trace the lost tribe of the Lankan prince . A decade-long search led them to a cemetery where they found the tombstones with inscriptions to say that the remains were of the descendants of a Sri Lankan prince . It was later found that even in Taiwan there are descendants of the prince . caption id= " attachment208896 " align= " alignleft " width= " 168 " caption= " Kumarikawa : Xushi Yine , the 19th generation Chinese descendant of a Sri Lankan prince " /caption At Quanzhou 's maritime museum , which showcases the historic Maritime Silk Road , curator Ding Yuling told us that a book is being written about the Lankan prince . Other officials said a docudrama is being made about Xushi , who has emerged as Quanzhou 's icon representing Chinese President Xi Jinping 's ambitious Maritime Silk Road Project which seeks to link Colombo , Hambantota and other key ports in the Afro-Asian region with Quanzhou , the largest metropolitan region in China 's Fujian Province . Quanzhou 's history records visits by traders , seafarers and explorers . Among them were the Persians , the Arabs , the most notable among them being Ibn Batuta , the Europeans , among them was Marco Polo , the Tamils from Tamil Nadu and , of course , the Sri Lankan Sinhala prince . Buddhist pagodas , Hindu kovils , Christian churches , Muslim mosques and Manichaean temples stood side by side as the city emerged as a classic example of the Chinese people 's respect for multiculturalism . Basking in its glorious past , Quanzhou with a population of 8 million people in an area of 11,250 square kilometres , is emerging as one of the world 's largest ports . Its people believe President Xi Jinping 's ambitious OBOR initiative will once again make this port city a pivot of world trade . Live and let live The message from Quanzhou 's history is that in trade relations between people of different countries , cultures , religions and races , co-existence is a blessed byproduct . This is also the message that Quanzhou wants to give the rest of the world as it gears up for the Maritime Silk Road project , which is , according to Chinese officials , a live-and-let-live initiative that will propel the economy of not only China 's south but also other countries all the way up to Somalia and Djibouti , where China is building a naval base -- not far from an American military base -- to ensure maritime security in the Indian Ocean . In 2014 , Sri Lanka and China entered into a defence and maritime security cooperation agreement . This and another agreement that gave China the right to explore Sri Lanka 's ocean for the wreckage of ships of Zhang He 's fleet apparently raised alarms in New Delhi and Washington . Asked about this agreement to explore Sri Lankan waters , Quanzhou Museum Curator Ding said she was aware of this agreement , but her museum or marine archaeologists of Quanzhou were not involved in it , though they have the technology to do so . She also said the museum maintained academic ties with Sri Lanka 's universities and she was keen to visit Sri Lanka 's maritime museum in Galle . A delegation of Quanzhou maritime museum officials is expected to visit Sri Lanka in November . Quanzhou 's officials dismissed the idea that China entertained any military ambitions through its Maritime Silk Road project . They insisted it was purely aimed at improving trade , academic and friendly relations . They said that many companies based in their " prospering city " had expressed a willingness to invest in Sri Lanka . Tea science and tea art Our three-day stay in Quanzhou also took us to Anxi , one of its counties , and the birthplace of tea . It is said people in this area used tea as a herb more than 3000 years ago and as a hot reviving brew some 2,500 years ago . Today , tea is also a cold sweet drink in China . Sri Lanka may be the world 's number one tea exporting country , but the first tea saplings were brought to Sri Lanka by British planters from China in 1824 . Given this history , I felt that our visit to Anxi was like a reunion between a mother and a child long separated from her . It is in Anxi County that we learnt the word ' teaology ' -- the science of tea . At the Anxi Tea College of the Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University , students are offered degrees to doctorates in teaology . Television cameras followed us when we visited Anxi , the region that produces China 's best tea and houses the nation 's largest tea distributing centre . Chinese journalists asked whether I liked Chinese tea . Of course , I said . " It is a health drink , like Sri Lanka 's black tea . " I told them the two countries should cooperate and learn from each other 's knowledge and experience in tea production . But a problem is the language barrier . At the Anxi Tea College officials said the courses were in Chinese but they had plans to introduce courses in English and open the college to foreign students . Tea is not only a science ; it is an art linked to tradition . At the Anxi tea distribution centre , two Chinese girls , clad in green kurtas and white pants , performed the tea ceremony for us . While one girl painted a flower on a white paper , the other girl 's slender hands moved like waves as she handled the utensils to make hot tea for us . With Anxi offering many useful tips to Sri Lanka 's tea trade , we realised that the visit was worth all the tea in China . ( More next week . ) Be on your guard , there could be LTTE sleeper cells : Major Gen. Kamal Gunaratnehttp : **31;1247;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 9:53 pmMy book is for the families of the poor soldiers who authored the final victoryBy Chandani Kirinde Umpteen stories are written on how wars are fought and won and this is true of Sri Lanka , too , where since the defeat of the LTTE in May 2009 , countless books have been authored giving different perspectives of how the Sri Lanka Army ( SLA ) defeated the Tamil Tigers . caption id= " attachment208882 " align= " alignright " width= " 300 " caption= " Major General Kamal Gunaratne : " I am not a hardliner but we have to learn lessons from the past " Right : Prabhakaran 's ' Tamileelam ' identity card . Major Gen. Gunaratne says he will hand it over to the Army museum " /caption The most recent publication titled ' Road to Nandikadal ' , authored by Major General Kamal Gunaratne whose entire career in the Sri Lanka Army spanned the three decades of the separatist war in the North and East of the country , seeks to tell the story from the perspective of a battle hardened soldier . He chose to launch the book earlier this month , a day after he hung up his uniform for the last time -- 35 years and six days from the first day he donned military fatigues . It has been an exhaustive exercise for the newly retired Major General , four years of writing in long hand in Sinhala , not wanting a ghost writer to author the book for him . " I have written the book from my heart . It 's 100 percent honest and based on my first hand experiences of more than three decades in the army , " he said . Through his book , Major General Gunaratne tells the reader the story of what inspired him to join the Army , his frustrations at times working within a system where hierarchical politics sometimes got in the way of sound decisions in the best interests of the country , the camaraderie of soldiers who fearlessly went forward in the final battle against the LTTE knowing they were facing certain death or serious injuries , his feelings of euphoria on seeing the lifeless body of the LTTE leader Velupillai Prabhakaran lying at his feet and still has a word of praise for the dreaded terrorist leader for his unfettered commitment to his cause . The flush of military victory has receded over the years but the release of his book has once again opened up new discussion on whether such a publication is a precursor to a possible career in politics . " I am a well experienced and very successful military commander who reached the pinnacle of my career . If I enter politics , I will be an infant in the field . Hence you will never hear the name Kamal Gunaratna in politics , " he says firmly . The rumors of his possible entry to politics , he says , were sparked by the presence of former President Mahinda Rajapaksa and Former Defence Secretary Gotabaya Rajapaksa at the launch of his book earlier this month . " I have the highest respect for President Rajapaksa for his unwavering support to the military when he was under tremendous pressure from the international community to stop military action . As for Gotabaya Rajapaksa , he was my Officer Commanding when I joined the Army and I learnt a lot under him . This is why they were among the five persons I personally chose to invite for the event . But this does not mean I will align with them in politics , " he says . Two other special invitees to the book launch were the widows of two much decorated senior military officers , Major General Vijaya Wimalaratne and Lieutenant General Denzil Kobbekaduwa . They died in action in 1992 . " If not for these two generals there would be no road to Nandikadal . They are the two most respected generals who ever served in the SLA . " A notable absentee on the occasion was former Army Commander and now Field Marshal Sarath Fonseka . Asked why his former Commander was left out of the invitee list , Major General Gunaratne says it was to avoid an " embarrassing situation . " " Now he is a politician and they have their own problems and I did not make it an embarrassing situation for anyone . I have given due respect and due recognition to General Fonseka in my book and I still respect my Commander General Sarath Fonseka , not Field Marshal or politician Fonseka , " he says . Questions of political affiliations aside , Major General Gunaratne is uneasy about recent developments like the attacks on the Kandyan dancers at the Jaffna University and the attack on our High Commissioner in Malaysia . " I am not a hardliner but we have to learn lessons from the past , " he says . And in this situation , he does not mind being called an alarmist and warns it is too early to downsize the army or withdraw the military form the north and east even if the LTTE is militarily defected . " The army must remain as it is for the next five years , " he says . To justify his argument , Major General Gunaratne points to the presence of more than 12,000 rehabilitated ex-LTTE cadres in the north and east . Among these , he says were around 500 suicide cadres and the lack of a mechanism to monitor their level of integration , means there is a threat of them regrouping . " If the proper leadership emerges to give them motivation and moral courage , there could be a few hundred ready to take up arms again . Some sections of the Diaspora too have not given up their dream for a separate state and are active in pursuing different means to revive separatism , " he cautions . " I am an alarmist due to valid reasons , " he says . Major General Gunaratne is assured a place in the history which records the decisive final battle against the LTTE . This is because he headed the 53 Division whose men killed Prabhakaran and wiped out almost the entirety of the top leadership of the Tamil Tigers . While he talks openly about his jubilation and that of the soldiers around him on that fateful day on seeing the LTTE leader 's body , he says it 's a matter that must be left at that . " Prabhakaran s body was cremated . We 'll leave it at that , " he says when asked for more details of what happened after the famous scenes were flashed across the nation over television showing the LTTE leader 's body lying on the ground surrounded by hundreds of soldiers . A memento he is taken from the scene , the Identity Card of Prabhakaran remains with him , which in due course he hopes to hand over to the army museum . " I wrote this book mainly for the families of the poor soldiers who came forward to defend the country . I want their loved ones to read it and understand the bravery of these soldiers . I did not want to antagonise anyone . I just want to get everyone into the picture about what transpired on the battle front , " he says.India 's prohibition hypocrisyhttp : **31;1280;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 9:44 pmBy Shashi Tharoor NEW DELHI -- Last month , 18 people in the Gopalganj district of India 's Bihar state died after consuming illicit alcohol , highlighting -- once again -- the peculiar relationship between morality and tragedy in India . The victims were poisoned because this April , in a fit of moralism , Bihar adopted a draconian law prohibiting the sale , possession , and consumption of alcohol . It is far from the first such ban that has ended badly . In a country where the national hero is the saintly Mahatma Gandhi , who considered alcohol an unmitigated evil , drinking has always carried a whiff of disrepute . India 's constitution , in its non-enforceable Directive Principles , urges Indians to work toward prohibition , and the government does not serve alcohol even at state banquets and official receptions . Four out of 29 Indian states ( Bihar , Gujarat , Manipur , and Nagaland ) and one union territory ( Lakshadweep or the Laccadive Islands ) are currently attempting to enforce total prohibition . caption id= " attachment208872 " align= " alignleft " width= " 200 " caption= " Police have failed to stop bootlegging despite a ban on sale and consumption of alcohol in India 's Bihar state . AFP " /caption But maintaining a sweeping prohibition policy has long proved difficult in India . In Manipur in 2002 , the 1991 ban was lifted in five hill districts , where alcohol consumption is a centuries-old local tradition . Lakshadweep makes an exception for an uninhabited island , where a tourist resort is allowed to operate a bar . When I was a child , what was then Bombay excused anyone with a doctor 's note confirming alcoholism . ( Well-heeled executives tripped over themselves to be labelled alcoholics . ) The State that best illustrates the appeal and the pitfalls of such moralism is Kerala , which announced in 2014 that it was implementing a partial ban on the sale of alcohol , with the goal of achieving total prohibition in ten years . It has been backsliding ever since . A coastal state , Kerala has long been viewed as a tourist paradise -- a reputation no doubt kept afloat on a sea of easily available libations . Before the ban , Kerala held a somewhat dubious distinction : India 's highest per capita consumption of spirits . But in India , where prohibition is popular among many segments of the electorate , politicians find it particularly difficult to resist the self-righteous urge to improve their fellow citizens . So Kerala 's government introduced the ban . And , at first , many approved . The influential Christian churches applauded the move , as did the Christian-affiliated political parties . Kerala 's Muslim leadership , including the then-ruling coalition 's ally , the Indian Union Muslim League , was equally vocal in its support . Working-class women , tired of watching their labourer husbands blow their monthly wages on booze , also welcomed the decision , as did traditionalists , Gandhians , and other moralists , of which India has an abundance . No public figure of any consequence in Kerala stood up to oppose the decision . Any politician who might have been inclined to do so knew that they would be instantly tarred as a votary of evil alcohol , an agent of the " liquor mafia , " a bar-loving enemy of good , wholesome Gandhian values . But there were good reasons to oppose the ban -- reasons that had nothing to do with religion , morality , or alcoholism . Excise duties on liquor account for 22% of the state revenues that sustain generous welfare programs in Kerala , which boasts the best social development indicators in India . Another 26% of State revenues come from tourism , which would surely also take a hit . Furthermore , much of Kerala 's economic viability depends on dynamic knowledge and services sectors . Attracting talent and investment from abroad would become much more difficult if prohibition hampered the state 's quality of life . ( IT professionals in Bangalore , in the neighbouring state Karnataka , flock to that city 's bars and pubs after long hours at work . ) Kerala 's leaders should have known that their state could not afford to do without widely available , heavily taxed liquor . But they began to implement the policy anyway . Almost immediately , 20,000 bar workers and distillery employees lost their jobs , in a state that already struggles with high unemployment . Tourism operators were stung by cancelations , as would-be visitors decided to visit Sri Lanka or Goa instead ; 50% of existing convention bookings were cancelled . And IT companies contemplating moving to clean , green , tech-friendly Kerala expressed concern about the prohibition policy . It was not long before Kerala 's government decided that prohibition would apply only to hard alcohol , and closed bars could reopen as wine and beer parlours . But that was not enough to save the government in June 's state election , which produced a new communist administration that , advocating education about the evils of alcohol instead of a ban , has promised to review the prohibition policy . So Kerala is no longer hurtling toward disaster in the name of saving people from themselves . But it never should have gone as far as it did , given experience with prohibition in other states , where falling revenues and rising crime ( including smuggling , tax evasion , and illicit liquor production ) forced its revocation . Four states -- Andhra Pradesh , Haryana , Mizoram , and Tamil Nadu -- have repealed prohibition policies . To be sure , not everyone loses out from a prohibition policy . When Kerala first announced its plans , neighbouring Tamil Nadu 's alcoholic beverages corporation , TASMAC , promptly declared its intention to open a string of new outlets along the states ' border , to cater to the demands of Keralite consumers . In other words , excise duties from Kerala would now fill Tamil Nadu 's coffers . Banning alcohol in India has been economically devastating . Yet politicians continue to use the promise of prohibition to win votes . When elections were called in Tamil Nadu early this year , its Chief Minister declared herself in favour of prohibition . After the election was won , however , all such talk discreetly subsided . My late father liked to say : " India is not only the world 's largest democracy ; we are also the world 's largest hypocrisy . " I suppose we can drink to that . ( The writer , a former UN under-secretary-general and former Indian Minister of State for External Affairs and Minister of State for Human Resource Development , is currently Chairman of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on External Affairs and an MP for the Indian National Congress . ) Courtesy : Project Syndicate , 2016 . Exclusive to the Sunday **36;1313;TOOLONG medical degrees : Here 's a second opinionhttp : **33;1351;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 9:40 pmBy M. Jinadasa caption id= " attachment208859 " align= " alignright " width= " 200 " caption= " SAITM students stage a protest demanding that their right to higher education be recognised " /caption Hours and hours of twiddling our thumbs outside Medical Consultants ' rooms awaiting admission to their " godly " presence , is all what it takes to realize the dearth of qualified doctors in Sri Lanka . My adverse views on the ETKA took a 180 degree turn , in the span of one and half hours at a private hospital waiting for my Consultant to show up for his appointment . The need for more doctors has become a top priority in the Country and in the face of State 's inability to commit the required finances to expand the State medical colleges , I can fully understand why successive governments have supported the concept of Private Medical Colleges in Sri Lanka . I have carefully studied the issue relating to SAITM and had the benefit of perusing various expert reports and visiting the said University . I have also gained first hand information about the establishment through my professional relations with the said institution . I find the following facts interesting : There are three groups that appear to object to SAITM , namely , the University Student Bodies , the Sri Lanka Medical Council ( SLMC ) and the Government Medical Officers Association ( GMOA ) . All three parties have a vested interest in objecting to SAITM , as restricting the intake to the medical profession makes their members a highly valued and sought after commodity in the country . All three groups have stated that the SAITM degree is unacceptable but only the SLMC and the eight deans of state medical faculties have issued reports citing their specific concerns . As far as the GMOA and the university student bodies are concerned , no specific allegation has been made against the degree itself and the allegations are vague and nebulous . Clinical exposure The SLMC and the eight state medical faculty deans have not faulted the SAITM 's course study but their criticism lies on the lack of adequate clinical exposure for the students . This can easily be remedied by permitting the SAITM students access to state hospitals . The Health Ministry has permitted such access , for which payment is made by SAITM . In addition SAITM has also pledged and/or is willing to pledge financial aid for the maintenance and upkeep of the hospitals in which their students train , which is an added benefit to the country . This problem of adequate lack of clinical exposure , therefore , appears to be solved at present . University student bodies and the GMOA claim that SAITM has been improperly established , but has to date failed to specify the alleged irregularity . A careful study of this issue reveals that no such irregularity exists . SAITM has acquired its degree awarding status after full compliance with the law and after undergoing due assessments from several Committees appointed by University Grants Commission . caption id= " attachment208860 " align= " alignleft " width= " 200 " caption= " SAITM students taking part in academic activities : Pic courtesy saitm.edu.lk " /caption The report submitted by the eight state medical faculty deans has been prepared without visiting or contacting SAITM for their views and is based purely on third party accounts . The lack of sufficient verification of facts by this panel is best exposed by its colossal blunder in assuming that the agreement between Nizhny Novgorod State Medical Academy ( NNMSA ) Russia and SAITM to conduct the MD degree programme has been terminated in October 2015 when , in fact , this agreement is still in existence to date , and there is written confirmation of this fact by NNMSA , a university recognised by the SLMC . From the time of acquiring the degree awarding status , SAITM has invited and included members nominated by the University Grants Commission in its Council , Senate and Admission Panel . SAITM has been periodically subject to institutional and subject reviews by committees comprising eminent persons appointed by the Secretary to the Higher Education Ministry , which is the specified authority for non-state degree awarding institutes . A comparison of the stringent procedure adopted by the state to recognise SAITM as a degree awarding institute and the procedure adopted to recognise the medical degree awarded by the Medical Faculty of the Kotalawela Defence University will convince the public that the State has been extremely circumspect and has taken precautions to ensure the good quality of the degree awarded by SAITM . Specified authority SAITM was recognised as a degree awarding institution prior to the publication of the said gazette notifications introducing the requirement of a Compliance Certificate . Upon the publication of the gazette notifications , SAITM has made every endeavour to ascertain from the Higher Education Ministry the identity of the specified professional body for the purpose of securing the Compliance Certificate . However , the ministry was unable to identify this body . Furthermore , the SLMC , which is required to function under the provisions of Medical Ordinance ( Chapter 105 ) is not vested with powers to issue such a ' Certificate of Compliance ' . SAITM had at all times been eager to secure the Compliance Certificate as reflected by its correspondence with state entities and will do so no sooner the identity of the specified professional body is notified by the ministry . Until such time , it is reasonable to presume that SAITM has been justly afforded the same exemption that is afforded to the Kotalawela Defence Academy Medical Degree Programme . Therefore , at present , in terms of section 29(1) of the Medical Ordinance , the SLMC is duty bound to register a holder of a degree awarding institute as a medical practitioner , if the other criteria specified therein are satisfied . Although SAITM admitted two batches of students from or about 2015 , both batches of students are for the same degree programme and there is only one academic programme for the year in respect of the two annual intakes . There are several reasons for having two intakes for this one academic programme : <p> a ) The students from local schools have a different academic cycle to the students of international schools and foreign schools , which necessitates two intakes to be held every year for the same degree programme ; <p> b ) The 1st batch of intakes ( which are the students from local schools ) are provided with the opportunity to participate in the foundation programme which includes an English language course until the 2nd intake ( comprising international school students and foreign students ) is finalised . This process is of immense academic value to the local students who have to switch from the Sinhala medium to English medium when following the degree programme . Otherwise , students from international schools who have studied biological sciences in English have an advantage over the students from local schools , as they are more familiar with English terms . Furthermore it is a requirement to have the foundation course as a part of curriculum , according to the Subject Benchmark statement , to facilitate basic sciences , language , and other areas relevant to medicine . <p> A perusal of the SLMC inspection report reveals that signatories to this report had personal prejudice and/or bias , probably related to the SAITM 's decision to expel a student , a daughter of a signatory of the report , for disciplinary reasons and the matter is now before court . There is also a legal battle between the other signatory to the report and SAITM over a statement issued against the Hospital owned by SAITM . Accordingly , both signatories should not have been a party to this report . The allegations on the basis that the establishment of the medical degree programme and the admission of new students were accompanied by serious irregularities are frivolous . No specific cases are cited in support of these allegations . Clause 70 D of the Universities Act specifies stringent conditions in relation to the admission of students , the supervision of course of studies , the examination and the assessment of the qualifications of teaching staff . These are being strictly abided by SAITM . For example : Admissions The governance structure , under which SAITM functions , requires the consent of the Ministry of Higher Education ( specified authority ) for admissions of students . The eligibility requirements for selection to SAITM are above the minimum standards prescribed by the UGC . No student is admitted to SAITM 's MBBS programme without the approval of the specified authority . As such whether or not there is majority representation from the state higher education and health sector institutions for admissions of students is of no consequence as the final authority for admissions lies with the specified authority . Conduct of the degree programme and examinations At present SAITM 's examination panels consist of external examiners . The external examination panel for the final year students comprised eminent professionals from the state medical faculties and consultants who participate in final examinations of state medical faculties . In addition , professors and senior lecturers also participated in the final examinations . The course of studies The curriculum and the syllabus for the SAITM medical degree programme is prepared in accordance with the UGC 's benchmark statement for medicine . The programme is monitored and approved by the UGC 's review committee . SAITM has provided scholarships at a cost of Rs. 500 million to date . SAITM is exploring the options for provision to be kept for the admission of students on student loans and increasing scholarships . A proposal initiated by SAITM for public-private participation in the management of Dr. Neville Fernando Sri Lanka- Russia Friendship Hospital is being negotiated at present with the State . SAITM is willing to reach a negotiated arrangement on this issue which is beneficial to both parties and which is financially viable to maintain the hospital to the required standards of a private teaching hospital.Sri Lankan gems sparkle in Londonhttp : **34;1386;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 11:46 pmcaption id= " attachment208325 " align= " alignright " width= " 300 " caption= " High Commissioner , Amari Wijewardena opening the Sri Lanka pavilion " /caption By Neville de Silva in London Sri Lanka 's worldwide reputation as the home of Sapphires drew large crowds to the Sri Lanka ( SL ) pavilion at the International Jewellery London ( IJL ) , the biggest gem and jewellery exhibition in the United Kingdom ( UK ) held over three-days last week . On display at the SL pavilion at the Olympia Exhibition Centre was a premium collection of gems and jewellery organised by the National Gem &amp; Jewellery Authority ( NGJA ) and the SL High Commission ( HC ) in London , aimed at promoting the country 's internationally-famous gems and jewellery in the international market , particularly in the UK . The SL pavilion was officially opened by SL 's new HC in the UK , Amari Wijewardene . Exhibiting their collection of sophisticated gems and jewellery were three SL companies- Sunshine Gems &amp; Jewellery , The Choice and McMillan Jewellers . Among the items on display were a wide range of precious stones such as blue , pink , yellow and star Sapphires and Rubies , an array of semi-precious stones like Chrysoberyl , Cat 's Eye , Aquamarine and Garnets , and a select collection of fine jewellery . Over 500 companies from nearly 40 countries around the world participated at the IJL exhibition this year , bringing together a large number of major brands , jewellery designers , leading suppliers and prospective buyers at this internationally-known show . This is the third consecutive year SL participated in this exhibition under a national pavilion . The recognition SL has gained as a major supplier of precious stones has been a huge " plus factor " in attracting many international jewellery makers to the SL stand . Although the British jewellery market is heavily dominated by Diamonds , the designers have gradually begun to pay an increasing attention to coloured stones in their creations This shift is expected to clear the way for coloured-stone suppliers like SL to become an important partner in the overall value chain of the British jewellery industry over the coming years . After their participation at the IJL , the SL exhibitors visited Birmingham and Hatton Garden , the two places where most British jewellers have set up their manufacturing operations . In addition to the exhibitors who shared the national pavilion , two representatives from San Gems also joined the tour , which was organised by the SLHC in London , to provide an opportunity for the visiting exhibitors and relevant officials of the NGJA to have a better understanding of the latest trends in the jewellery market , different technologies used by the industry and the prospects for the SL Gem &amp; Jewellery industry to foster mutually beneficial linkages with the British jewellery makers and related institutions.Address by Hon. Mangala Samaraweera at the at the IFIMEShttp : **34;1422;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 11:28 pm <p> Address by Hon. Mangala Samaraweera , MP. , <p> Minister of Foreign Affairs of Sri Lanka <p> at the <p> International Institute for Middle-East and Balkan Studies ( IFIMES ) <p> Slovenia , 7 September 2016 <p> Democracy , Reconciliation and Development : Vision for a New Sri Lanka <p> Prof. Dr. Ernest Petric Vice President of the Advisory Board of the International Institute for Middle-East and Balkan Studies , and Members of the Institute Honorary Consul of Sri Lanka in Slovenia , Excellencies , Distinguished guests , Ladies and Gentlemen , It is an honour for me to be here today , at the invitation of the International Institute for Middle-East and Balkan Studies , to speak to you about the changes that are taking place in my country . Although Sri Lanka is situated far away from where we stand here this afternoon in geographical terms , this region of the Balkans and the region where we are situated in South Asia , are both inheritors of ancient civilisations and rich histories . In classical times , the Balkans lay at the heart of the Greco-Roman civilisation , and was also influenced by Christianity and Islam . Today , this region is home to a diverse ethno-linguistic people , not very different from the region of South Asia that constitutes one-fifth of the world 's population comprising diverse ethnic , religious and linguistic groups . Today , South Asia is a mix of the ancient and the modern -- with the influence of western colonisation having left its mark as well , on language , religion , attire , food , architecture , culture , literature and every conceivable aspect of social life . caption id= " attachment208329 " align= " alignright " width= " 300 " caption= " Mangala in Slovenia : Foreign Minister Mangala Samaraweera delivered the keynote address at the International Institute for Middle-East and Balkan Studies ( IFIMES ) in Slovenia on Wednesday . He spoke on the topic ' Democracy , Reconciliation and Development : Vision for a New Sri Lanka . ' Mr. Samaraweera 's speech appears on our website sundaytimes.lk " /caption Each of the nations in South Asia , including Sri Lanka , continues to grapple with issues of nation building in the post-independent modern era while adjusting to the rapidly evolving modern technological advancements , globalisation , and dealing with challenges posed by climate change , migration , urbanisation , terrorism and violent extremism , and taking steps to achieve equitable and sustainable development , and economic growth . Ladies and Gentlemen , My country , Sri Lanka , has an ancient history steeped in myth and legend , influenced by beliefs and folklore , which is no different to this region . We also have a recorded history dating back over two thousand years . Vast ruins of ancient kingdoms , temples , irrigation tanks and engineering feats are still visible today , indicating that Sri Lanka was the seat of one of the small but important historical civilisations of Asia at the time . The geographic location of Sri Lanka , in the Indian Ocean , midway between East and West , and just 48 km away from India , made Sri Lanka a significant part of the maritime history of the pre-colonial and ancient world ; providing ports for the exchange of goods between East and West ; and a contact point between two great regions . At the time of Independence in 1948 , after 150 years of British rule , Sri Lanka , then Ceylon , was placed in a unique position among the countries in the developing world . We started practicing universal adult franchise as early as 1931 . We were considered a model Commonwealth country , carefully prepared for Independence , with a relatively good standard of education , two universities of high quality , a civil service largely consisting of trained locals , and with experience in representative government . caption id= " attachment208330 " align= " alignleft " width= " 300 " caption= " First time visit by Tasmanian govt. officials Tasmania Premier Will Hodgman ( pictured ) and Minister Matthew Groom met Deputy Foreign Minister Harsha De Silva last week . While the discussion was wide ranging , it centered on the similarities and differences of the two islands , including renewable energy opportunities and thoughts on international education . Mr. Hodgman said he hoped that this first-ever visit to Sri Lanka would be the beginning of a long partnership . " /caption The different communities in the country showed promise of being able to live and work towards common national goals in peace , harmony and unity . They had worked together to gain independence from the British despite the fact that they followed different faiths , spokes different languages and followed different customs . However , our nation faltered . Successive leaders of our peoples , since Independence , made mistakes which saw our country plunge into torment and conflict for well over three decades . Our country experienced the trauma of two youth insurrections in the South ( in 1971 and in the late 1980s to early 90s ) ; a separatist movement which manifested in terrorism in the North and the East of the country for over two decades ; and death and devastation caused by the December 2004 tsunami . After all this , when our country saw the end of violence unleashed by terrorism on the 19th of May 2009 , everyone belonging to every community heaved a sigh of relief . It was our fervent hope that Sri Lanka could at last resume her long suspended dream for a better , peaceful , united future . The future that a newspaper in London had predicted for us at the time of Independence way back in 1948 -- that Sri Lanka , in time to come , would no doubt become the ' Switzerland of the East ' . However , this was not to be . We failed to seize the opportunity to achieve meaningful reconciliation and consolidate peace . The 6 years or so since May 2009 saw Sri Lanka take an unfortunate journey on an autocratic path . Civil liberties were curtailed , independence of institutions including the judiciary was compromised , democracy was weakened , the rule of law was undermined , and good governance practices and human rights were violated with impunity . We failed to address the causes of conflict in a manner that would guarantee durable peace , meaningful reconciliation and non-recurrence . Divisions in society were becoming deeper along religious and ethnic lines , freedom of speech and expression were curtailed , and fear and intimidation pervaded society . Our nation which had been a prominent and respected member of the international community since Independence , including in the United Nations , abandoned her natural foreign policy of engagement , and chose instead , to follow a policy of antagonising traditional friends and partners , and isolated itself from the world community . It was against this backdrop of a sense of total despair , that several parties in Opposition , which I like to call the ' Rainbow Coalition ' joined forces . We came together to field a common opposition candidate , Mr. Maithripala Sirisena , at the Presidential election in January 2015 , in response to the call by a large section of people in Sri Lanka who were yearning for change . Despite an election campaign which was deeply flawed and one-sided , the rainbow coalition of the opposition scored a decisive victory on the 8th of January , on a platform promising far reaching democratic and constitutional reforms . The people of Sri Lanka reasserted their commitment to democracy by dislodging an emerging dictatorship through non-violence . Not stopping at that , the people voted once again at the Parliamentary Election in August last year to uphold the same values and norms . Most importantly , for the first time in Sri Lanka 's history , with the support of the people we have formed a National Unity Government , bringing together the two main rival political parties in the country , the Sri Lanka Freedom Party led by President Maithripala Sirisena , and the United National Party led by Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe . This unprecedented move has heralded a new culture of consensual politics , providing the much needed political and policy stability in our country to undertake far reaching reform and important decisions in the long-term interest of our nation . Addressing the inaugural session of Parliament on 1 September last year , following the Parliamentary Election in August , the President explained that the formation of a National Unity Government is essential to obtain the bipartisan consensus that is necessary to face the important challenges before our nation , which include reconciliation and peacebuilding . Today therefore , for the first time since Independence , the myopia that plagued our nation has been set aside . The temptation of political parties to follow a path of confrontation in order to achieve short-term political gains over the long-term interests of the people is now over , and we have in our Leader of Opposition , Hon. R. Sampanthan , a wise , committed and respected politician with the resolve to work together to ensure that we do not let our country lose yet another opportunity . Fortunately , today , with the demise of the LTTE , no one in our country believes that violence is a solution to our problems . The desire for peace , the desire to ensure non-recurrence is clear . The people of our country , in every walk of life , the rich and the poor , those living in the North , South , East , West and Centre , desperately want peace to last . They have all suffered too much bloodshed and unimaginable agony . The National Unity Government therefore , is focused on fostering a national consensus around the " never again " principle which everyone in our country relates to . We have set our nation on a historic journey . Our vision , very briefly , is to build a Sri Lanka that , -safeguards , promotes and protects the rights and dignity of all , and equality of all ; -respects and celebrates the multi-ethnic , multi-lingual , multi-religious nature of our society ; -empowers our youth and our women ; -upholds the rule of law ; respects democracy and fundamental freedoms including the freedom of the media ; -preserves our environment while taking steps to ensure integrated and sustainable development ; -gives priority to securing the best education possible for our children and youth , including the skills they require to meet the demands of the global value chain ; and securing the best health facilities possible ; -focuses on infrastructure development , and equitable economic growth required for the prosperity of all our people ; -enhances and encourages understanding and preservation of culture , respect for each other 's traditions and beliefs , and is always conscious of the need to be a responsible and respected member of the international community ; -gives priority always to the needs of the people of our country and what is in their best interest ; -is reconciled , democratic , and prosperous , with a united and entrepreneurial people , at peace with themselves , and at peace with the world ; and -works in engagement and in cooperation with the international community and international organisations to address issues of concern , not only for Sri Lanka , but for the region and the global community as a whole . Ladies and Gentlemen , During the first 100 Days in Office itself , we took a series of important steps to consolidate democracy and democratic institutions , despite not having a confirmed majority in Parliament . These included the passage of the 19th amendment to the Constitution through which the two-term limit of the Presidency was re-introduced ; the Constitutional Council was appointed ; Independent Commissions were restored ; Right to Information was recognised as a fundamental right ; and the Promotion of National Reconciliation and Integration were recognised as duties of the President . Our focus is to pursue an agenda based on three main areas : strengthening democracy ; fostering reconciliation ; and pursuing equitable economic development for all our people . While consolidating the democratic gains achieved within the first 100 days in Office , we have managed to take action on all fronts thereafter , strengthening good governance and the rule of law ; promoting and protecting human rights ; fostering reconciliation ; and achieving economic development ; while engaging and working closely with the international community in a constructive manner that benefits the people of our country . -The enactment of the Right to Information Act in June this year , was yet another step in strengthening our democracy ; -As I said before , from May 2009 , post-conflict reconciliation eluded us as a result of short-sighted policies and the triumphalist approach that was adopted immediately following the end of conflict . The National Unity Government has approached reconciliation as a matter of urgent priority . A series of symbolic and tangible steps have been taken towards healing the wounds of conflict and addressing the grievances of our people . We have put in place the structures required to coordinate the setting up of key mechanisms required for this purpose . First among them is an Office on Missing Persons . The legislation for the establishment of this Office was passed in Parliament just last month . This Office which has a humanitarian mandate , will have as its main objective , ascertaining the fate of the missing , irrespective of when and where they went missing and in what location , and seek to provide answers to their family members and loved ones . -A Task Force consisting entirely of civil society representatives has been appointed to seek the views of the public that will inform the designing of the truth-seeking , justice , accountability and reparations mechanisms that we propose to establish . -The Government is also working towards the adoption of a new Constitution for Sri Lanka . This Constitution , while entrenching the democratic gains we have achieved during the last year , will also be a celebration of Sri Lanka 's diversity as a multi-ethnic , multi-religious , multi-lingual country that will guarantee equal rights , justice and dignity for all , and address some of the issues that have plagued us since Independence and has stood in the way of our unity as a nation . The Public Representations Committee tasked with seeking the views of the public for the new Constitution has just completed its work , and their Report has been handed over to the Government . The sub-committees tasked with submitting proposals on fundamental rights , judiciary , law and order , centre-periphery relations and public finance are to hand over their reports to the Steering Committee of the Constitutional Assembly chaired by the Prime Minister , shortly . In the last one-and-a-half years , we have completely changed the way we engage with human rights mechanisms . Our objective is to uphold , promote and protect the individual rights of all . As you are all aware , the Government co-sponsored the Resolution titled ' Promoting Reconciliation , Accountability and Human Rights in Sri Lanka ' at the UN Human Rights Council in September last year , out of our own firm conviction that Sri Lanka must come to terms with the past in order to forge ahead and secure the future that the people of our country truly deserve . We have since extended a standing invitation to the UN Special Procedures Mandate Holders . We received the Working Group on Enforced and Involuntary Disappearances last November ; the High Commissioner for Human Rights in February ; the Special Rapporteurs on the Independence of Judges and Lawyers , and Torture in April-May this year ; we will be receiving the Special Rapporteur on the Rights of Minorities in October ; and we have just seen the conclusion of a very successful visit by the Secretary-General of the United Nations , Mr. Ban Ki-moon . We still have a long way to go to achieve reconciliation . As you all know , Ladies and Gentlemen , reconciliation does not happen at once . It requires effort , hard work , commitment , and careful , continuous and concrete action . It is not an end that can be reached where no further work is required ; and it is certainly not a box that can be ticked as a task completed and achieved . It is a journey that requires constant striving . A commitment towards which our nation should be bound across generations , and a central tenet of governance . The price to pay , if we falter , is not one that our nation can endure once again after over thirty years of bloodshed that has spared no one . For some , the pace at which we are making progress appears too slow ; and for others , too fast . I would say that while victims and the general public as well as some in the international community may be impatient , after so many years of conflict , we can not take risks that will make us lose everything that we have gained in the last one-and-a-half years . So we move with caution . Perhaps our approach could be described as what the Romans called festina lente - making haste slowly . Ladies and Gentlemen , Political will and good intentions will not succeed unless all stakeholders in our country feel that their development needs are being addressed and cared for , and their living conditions are improving . Therefore , winning the peace is just as much about jobs , education , healthcare and infrastructure for all Sri Lankans as it is about political reforms . The peace dividend must be felt in economic terms by all sections of Sri Lankan society ; the peace dividend for the unemployed youth must be greater and better job opportunities ; for the housewives -- better living standards ; for the farmers -- higher prices and access to markets ; for the students -- more schools , technical colleges and universities with better-trained teachers and lecturers ; and for the elderly -- greater access to hospitals and medicine . The Government of Sri Lanka has no doubt that as the necessary political and economic reforms take place , investments and trade and ultimately jobs , growth and economic development will follow . But as the relationship between peace and development is holistic and dynamic , the faster the peace dividend is felt , the greater and faster the likelihood and durability of peace . In a nutshell , the people 's purses must feel the benefits of greater democracy , reconciliation , and peace . And they must feel them fast . We are in the process of putting in place the economic plans and policies required to sustain and accelerate Sri Lanka 's 6% plus growth rate ; attracting investment , creating a million jobs , developing Sri Lanka as a hub -- taking advantage of its geographic location ; and expanding market access ; and improving living standards through an ambitious economic development drive . The Government 's economic strategy is based on attracting foreign direct investment , making Sri Lanka 's exports more competitive , promoting tourism , and improving productivity through education and knowledge transfer . Sri Lanka is at the centre of the rapidly growing Indian Ocean region , astride the main East-West shipping route and next to one of the world 's largest markets , India . We are leveraging this unique geo-economic location to accelerate growth : negotiations are already underway to deepen our existing free trade agreement with India . We plan to do the same with Pakistan with whom we also have a free trade agreement . We also plan to negotiate and conclude a Free Trade Agreement with China . These Agreements -- combined with our excellent air and sea connectivity to the sub-continent -- will help cement our position as a Gateway to the sub-continent . We seek to also improve market access abroad . Due to the previous Government 's short-sighted policies , we lost European Union GSP+ concessions . Having filed our application for GSP+ recently , we hope to regain the facility by the end of the year . A concerted effort is also underway to improve the business climate domestically . Far-reaching governance reforms that are rules based have structurally made investment and business more secure and certain . Sri Lanka is taking measures to increase investor 's ease of doing business and confidence more directly . For example , we are bringing a number of government agencies together to create a one-stop investment and trade-facilitation shop under the Agency for Development . We are reviewing our laws and regulations to create a simple rules-based business environment : including those related to land ownership , as well as tariffs and para-tariffs . We have adopted policies that enable private enterprise to thrive : for example , Sri Lanka has one of the lowest income tax rates in the world -- at 15 percent . Together these reforms -- alongside our educated workforce and solid infrastructure -- are making Sri Lanka the most attractive , secure and competitive investment destination in the region . We need further and faster support in poverty alleviation , urban development , infrastructure development , education -- particularly vocational , technical and English language training -- and agricultural productivity improvements . As we in Sri Lanka strive to create a better tomorrow for all our people , we value the partnerships we build with nations across the world to assist us in our efforts in reconciliation and development ; to promote peace , security , and economic and social progress . Ladies and Gentlemen , We are firm in our conviction to succeed in this journey for the sake of all our people , vindicating the faith reposed on us by our friends in the international community , but more than anything else , to do right by the people of our nation and future generations , and secure for them the destiny that we were unable to achieve 68 years ago at Independence . Thank you.Behind global crackdown on NGOshttp : **36;1458;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 7:25 pmBy Somar Wijayadasa NEW YORK ( In-Depth News ) - At a time when United States-Russia relations continue to deteriorate , Russia has blacklisted seven U.S.-based non-governmental organizations ( NGOs ) as being " undesirable " on its territory.This can not be ruled as another manifestation of President Vladimir Putin 's Cold War-style paranoia as this happens in hundreds of countries around the world . In the past year , Armenia , India , Egypt , Cambodia , Russia , China and Uganda are among the countries that enforced draconian laws to regulate NGO activities -- mostly on suspicion of foreign governments interfering in their internal affairs . caption id= " attachment208125 " align= " alignright " width= " 400 " caption= " Russia:Pussy Riot protests against President Putin were sponsored by foreign NGOs " /caption Recently , Israel passed laws targeting NGOs that receive funding from abroad . Israel 's Prime Minister , Benjamin Netanyahu said the public needed to know when foreign states were " meddling " in its internal affairs . He said that " the law 's approval will increase transparency , contribute to creating a discourse that reflects Israeli public opinion , and will strengthen democracy " . The most notable ouster from Russia was the U.S. Agency for International Development ( USAID ) , in 2012 , on charges of trying to " influence the political process through the distribution of grants " to anti-Putin political groups . This probably came as retribution after a wave of massive anti-Putin political protests before and after his presidential election , and also the infamous " Pussy Riot " that caused a world-wide anti-Putin propaganda campaign . Raising concern about outside political interference , Putin said : " I object categorically to foreign funding of political activity in the Russian Federation ... not a single self-respecting country allows that and neither will we . " Russia adopted NGO legislation , in April 2008 , as it feared that foreign-funded NGOs are fomenting revolution in Russia , just as many believe they did successfully in Georgia , Moldova , Ukraine and Kyrgyzstan . Another so-called " foreign agents " law passed in 2012 , requires NGOs to register as foreign agents if they receive funding from abroad and engage in political activities . Before signing that law , Putin told the Russian legislators : " Do n't be afraid of democracy . We must understand that democracy is different from a state of anarchy . Of course democracy implies a rule of law . If we fail to comply with existing national laws , democracy can not exist . " Last year , Putin tightened the noose further by signing the " Undesirable NGOs " Law which empowers the Russian government to sanction any group as " undesirable " if it is deemed to undermine Russia 's constitution , defence and national security . Twisting Dostoevsky 's Crime and Punishment , I asked my erstwhile UN colleague who later became a member of the Russian Parliament : " Do you agree that passing all these stringent NGO laws as punishment fit the crime committed by foreign governments funding and involvement in NGOs ? " His agitated response was a resounding " Absolutely yes " . He added : " Did you forget the Arab Spring revolutions , Maidan in Ukraine , the Umbrella Revolution in Hong Kong , ethnic tensions in China ? And who is causing all these in the name of democracy and freedom of speech ? " He further reiterated , " Russians and Chinese do n't need foreign funding to develop their countries " . " These foreign fundings , " he said , " are covert operations to brainwash our people to revolt against democratically elected governments to cause regime changes . " It is precisely for this reason that more than one hundred countries from Algeria to Zimbabwe have already ratified legislation to register and monitor NGOs -- thereby , to prevent foreign funding to domestic NGOs that exert undue influence on domestic policy . These countries accuse the United States and European countries of using NGOs to support political unrest in the guise of supporting democracy , rule of law and human rights protection . At a time of advanced communication capabilities when a political agitator can momentarily summon tens of thousands of people to stage a mass demonstration , Governments have every right to regulate NGOs , and be vigilant at all times to ensure that they only engage in legitimate activities , and not violate the country 's national security . The purpose of rigid NGO legislation is quite explicit : it is to prevent foreign subversion of domestic politics . In 1945 , Article 71 of the United Nations Charter provided for the formation of NGOs in consultation with the Members of the United Nations concerned . And , since then , the UN has been a staunch supporter of NGOs . NGOs proliferated after the second World War as most countries needed humanitarian assistance to uplift the masses from unemployment , poverty , malnutrition , health issues and repair war-damaged infrastructures.The World Bank defines NGOs as private organizations that pursue activities to relieve suffering , promote the interests of the poor , protect the environment , provide basic social services , or undertake community development . In keeping with the noble mission of the United Nations , millions of NGOs around the world continue to deliver humanitarian services in emergency situations , promote grassroots economic development , and provide much needed assistance in health , education and poverty alleviation . UN accreditation rules theoretically require a " democratically adopted constitution " , " representative structure " and an " appropriate mechanism of accountability " but are largely devoid of timely enforcement powers.Many countries find that some NGOs are highly problematic in their conduct , funding , and connection to governments , programme mission and methods of work . Some dubious NGOs have been front groups , weapons promoters and corporate lobby associations . It is now evident that western donors have historically used NGOs to exploit economic opportunities in poor countries , to counter hostile political ideologies and to aid terrorism against legitimately elected democratic regimes -- just as Norway was accused of doing in Sri Lanka . The global crackdown on NGOs unfortunately is coming at a time when many parts of the world are beleaguered with wars , refugees , hunger , unemployment , economic and health crises . Since it is usually the NGOs that provide first-line assistance to the needy , any legal implications and decreased resources could be an impediment to providing these vitally needed humanitarian services . NGOs raise billions of dollars each year but they function without budgetary and governance oversight , and there is no accepted benchmark for evaluating the effectiveness of NGOs in their stated missions.For example , the Indian Ocean tsunami ( 2004 ) and the deadly earthquake in Haiti ( 2010 ) generated over $8 billion and $10 billion dollars , respectively -- for disaster relief activities including medical care , shelter , food , and clothing for survivors . But many unscrupulous NGOs , individuals and politicians reportedly pocketed billions of dollars because these countries lacked regulatory , legal and enforcement procedures.To avoid misappropriation of funds and also to avoid suspicion of subversive activities , foreign governments can provide funding through a Government established department or through a watchdog group to collect and channel foreign funding to NGOs as it is effectively done now in several countries . All NGOs should adapt ways to avoid suspicion and prosecution by strictly adhering to the mandates they have provided to the donors and clients , and above all maintain transparency and accountability.It is time for both the NGOs and foreign governments to take a hard look at their mandates , their core values , and change how they operate . If not , these restrictive NGO laws taking hold around the world would have a profoundly detrimental impact on their legitimate services on behalf of the needy . ( Somar Wijayadasa , an international lawyer , was a UNESCO delegate to the UN General Assembly for ten consecutive years from 1985-1995 , and was Representative of UNAIDS at the United Nations from 1995-2000 . ) Literature for national integrationhttp : **29;1496;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 7:12 pmBy Rajitha Weerakoon The 59th Sri Lanka Literary Awards -- the premier literary event of Sri Lanka held last Thursday at the BMICH , saw a positive movement of national integration through literature with a greater participation of significant numbers of Tamil literati . Twenty six nominees were listed for the highest national awards in Tamil literature with 11 out of them emerging as winners . The increasing numbers of writers show prolific literary activity in Tamil literature gathering momentum . The nominated numbers of Tamil writers were much less in the last year . caption id= " attachment208109 " align= " alignright " width= " 400 " caption= " Prof. Emeritus Merlin Peris rerceiving the highest lifetime award " Sahithyaratna " from President Maithripala Sirisena " /caption Chief Guest President Maithripala Sirisena who at the last Sri Lanka Literary Awards requested Tamil writers to help bring about reconciliation using the pen , reiterated his call this year . The President in his message stated that literature helps to discard racial conflicts and religious extremism and cure the minds of those who are sick due to such destructive ideas . Prime Minister Ranil Wickremasinghe assured in his message that the stage is now set for better literary pursuits to be undertaken in a manner that stimulates greater social engagements . The Sri Lanka Literary Awards which covered children , youth and adult literature in its 42 categories in Sinhala , Tamil and English , is the only event which represents creative writers of the Lankan literary tapestry . Monks , diplomats , professors , men , women , the young as well as the old and the feeble , the affluent and not so affluent were either winners , nominees or inspired spectators applauding those who enrich literature . The Sri Lanka Literary Awards Ceremony was organised by the Department of Cultural Affairs and according to Jayasumana Dissanayake , Chairman of the State Advisory Board for Literature , the organisers this year in order to select the winners , obtained books published last year from the National Archives . They were not confined to those submitted by authors as in the past . The President gave away Awards for the Best Novels in Sinhala , Tamil and English respectively to Niragi Seneviratne ( DulwalaAlankare , ) Sivalingam Aruran ( Yalisai ) and Rizvina de Alwis ( It 's not in the Stars . ) The highlight was the awarding of the highest lifetime award " Sahithyaratna " by the President to Professor Emeritus Merlin Peris , Professor of Western Classics for his contribution to both Sinhala and English literature , Pandit Siri Thilakasiri- a prolific writer of books of literary value for his contribution to Sinhala Literature and Bishop Rev. Subramaniam Jebanesan -- a Doctor of Philosophy from Jaffna , for enriching Tamil literature.St Paul 's Church , Kynsey Road Celebrates 200 years of worshiphttp : **33;1527;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 7:04 pmThe Church of St.Paul the Apostle , Kynsey Road , Colombo 8 celebrates 200 years of worship on September 18 . The Celebration Sung High Mass will be held on the 18th at 5.30 p.m. presided over by Bishop of Colombo , the Rt . Rev. Dhiloraj Canagasabay . A Mission Service will be held on September 17 at 5.30 p.m . The parish was originally located in Pettah , then a residential locality in Colombo , the Church having been dedicated for worship in 1816 , near the Old Town Hall as the first Anglican Church in the neighbourhood . Although in use in 1816 , the church was not consecrated until 1821 by the Bishop of Calcutta , who also had the responsibility for Ceylon . This first Church building served the Parish till 1845 , when it was badly damaged by a fire caused by fireworks falling on the cadjan roof . Resisting the suggestions to move the Church to another site , the loyal parishioners insisted on restoring the Church exactly where it stood and it was brought back to use in 1846 . In 1926 , the decision was made to sell the Church premises and use the funds to build a new church , in closer proximity to the homes of the people whom the church should nurture and serve.The construction of this Church was initiated by Rev.Basil Jayawardene in June 1930 . The church was built in Byzantine style based on the model of the St.Sophia Cathedral , in Istanbul . The consecration of the church on Kynsey Road took place on January 24 , 1934 , on the eve of the feast of the Conversion of St.Paul the Apostle . The Church today is known for an annual celebration of the feast of Our Lady of Walsingham and also for its long standing relationship with the Syrian Orthodox Church of MalabarAgga ? ? a Sutta : Migration of humans since evolution and present day violencehttp : **32;1562;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 6:56 pmBy Satharathilaka Banda Atugoda Humans since their evolution , from the earliest times , had been on the move , in search of food , pasture lands for herds , farmlands for agriculture , better shelter to protect themselves , water to drink and other human needs , and more comforts . This trend continued with new expectations , and desires and wants , as humans became sedentary . This is a simplistic explanation for lay-persons , like us. caption id= " attachment208087 " align= " alignright " width= " 563 " caption= " Migrants being rescued from a dinghy off the Libyan coast in the international waters between Malta and Libya . AFP/Italian Red Cross/Yara Nardi " /caption Relevant sections of Agga ? ? a Sutta The great philosopher and teacher of non-violence , the Buddha speaks of this phenomena in the Agga ? ? a Sutta ; He lucidly analyses , to Vasettha and Bharadwaja the two Brahmins , how humans evolved , lived contentedly in their environment until private ownership developed in the community based on production of grains , and agricultural plots , when conflicts arose about how equitably their distribution should be effected . In order to settle such disputes a leader was chosen from among them who later acquired for himself powers , to execute decisions ; the earliest seeds of the concept of kingship commenced thus and Maha Sammata was selected with the free will of these humans . They themselves , underwent a whole cycle of evolution after descending from Abhassara , another Brahma Loka . The Maha Sammata or the leader chosen with the consent of the wider grouping of beings , ruled over these independent societies . Eons later these came to be known as empires , kingdoms . The beings in these entities moved from one to the other for occupations , and the leaders eventually , expanded their economic territory . Some among these humans became land owners , ( Khattiya ) , some agriculturists and merchants , entrepreneurs ( Vaishyas ) , some manual-workers , ( Shudras ) , and those who were in search of spiritual attainments , Brahmanas . These groups were called castes in India later ; but they were really econo-spiritual-socio segments in society . These humans were in search of better worldly lives , and in the process there arose , inter and intra-quarrels , when the interests of one impinged on the other , - between and among these societies . As humans grew in numbers these conflicts graduated to wars and later world wars . The greed and ignorance in persons in these societal-entities , led some to move from one community to the other , which seemingly were better equipped to satisfy them . ( Agga ? ? a Sutta in Digha Nikaya ) What is termed as ' migration ' is thus , moving out from their habitat seeking more comforts . They could be social , economic , educational , and other facilities . Due to the controls and safeguards , governing varied communities , those who migrate had to force their way surreptitiously , and in secrecy , and in the case of some others their environs encouraged them to do so . The present terms refugee and asylum-seekers are persons who are forced to move out , due to war , famine , or persecution . Those who yearn for a better life in the process are called economic refugees . All of them are termed migrants . Explanation in modern science . Modern science has studied this phenomenon of migration in relation to the evolution of humans . There are varied theories propounded , by eminent scientists , biologists , archeologists and naturalists . One of the theories generally , talked about is that the earliest migration took place from Africa , around 77,000 , years ago . They were the hominids who migrated North who are called Neanderthals , and also called Homo Sapiens , and Homo Erectus in East Asia , and Hobbits in South East Asia . These findings have been corroborated by DNA tests of persons , in the present different continents . Different approximations of dates of how long ago these migrations have taken place are given by scientists , ranging from 30,000 to 90,000 years . Migration from present day Europe to America has occurred approximately , 30,000 years ago from Alaska to Bering Strait . The knowledge has advanced in this field since our student days , that young researchers could undertake further studies . The humans in different environments changed physical structures and there came into being , indices like Cephalic Index , of the equation between the head and the rest of the body . There is certainly a core-relation of these findings to the philosophical teachings of the Buddha . An aspect that the pure-scientists , leave for social scientists is the trends of migration in the world , known to us . They were infact due to the worldly reasons propounded in the teachings of the Buddha , ignorance and lust . The emperors and kings or the Maha Sammatas , overwhelmed with greed and ignorance , ignored the Dasa Raja Dharma , taught in the Dhamma . The rulers in the present day world are bereft of any of the ethical codes of governance . It has been so from the time of the nation state 's emergence . They try to expand their territory for self aggrandisement . It is almost the same with all those who rule the present States . There would not have been two world wars , regional wars , religious and ethnic conflicts , mass displacements of people , hunger , deprivation , inadequate shelter , migrations at the risk of-lives , refugees and all the evils , if the world leaders were humane . The emergence of world bodies for preservation of peace , and economic advancement and social and cultural resurgence have been necessary because of man 's inhumanity to man . Dasa Raja Dharma The Buddha taught the leaders to follow the ten royal ethics in the Kutadanda Sutta in Digha Nikaya which are as follows : Liberality , generosity , charity ( dana ) , morality ( sila ) , loyal service ( parichchaga ) , honesty ( ajjava ) , kindness , gentleness ( majjava ) , non attachment - mainly to power ( thapas ) , non-hatred ( akkhoda ) , non-violence , non political victimisation ( avihimsacha ) , and non-opposition to people 's will ( avirodha ) . When these virtues are translated to world politics today , and domestic politics , it is easy to comprehend that the varied administrations are responsible for the human problems and sufferings engulfing the nations . Migration and violence Leaving aside the individual national problems , the major crises spots of the world are sufficient testimony to the unethical governance in most countries . The migration and the refugee crises in the Middle East and the violence in the region is due to the non-conformity to any human ethics by the ruling classes . As space is inadequate , only the violence perpetrated in Europe during the last month are referred to in this essay . The political causes are well-known to the readership . There was an exodus of humans from the Middle East due to non-ending violence , caused firstly , by the ruling classes , and secondly , due to the violence by armed groups on the respective governments and their forces . The fleeing of millions of people to safe places on earth , commenced over a year ago . This was mainly to Europe , and Europe welcomed them . The violence armed groups perpetrated on the people of Europe due to hatred-based wrong concepts , are spreading violence in various parts of the world . One continuing saga of this phenomenon of inhumanity of man to man , are the attacks , by armed groups on civilians . Therefore , this immigration to Europe from the Middle East is viewed by the Europeans , with a certain amount of suspicion mainly due to the terrorist attacks in the varied cities in Europe . In the month of July alone , there were attacks in Germany in a train at Wurzburg , Munich , in France , in Nice on Bastille Day , in a Christian Church in St. Etienne , and other sporadic violence . The debate in Europe is whether , the sympathy shown by them to the immigrants especially , from the Middle East had been adequately reciprocated . Since the time European leaders allowed the refugees to enter European countries in 2015 , the terrorist violence they had to undergo seems to tell the immigrants that they are no more welcome . Similar massacres continue in the name of ethnicity , religion , race and false concepts of freedom and sovereignty in other parts of the world , forcing populations to flee such regions . The onus of reducing this inhumanity by man on man stems from rulers and descends to the commoners . The rulers therefore , should follow a code of ethics , based on whatever , doctrine they follow . When such a world will be born is however , beyond comprehension . ( The writer was an Ambassador for Sri Lanka . ) Democracy , development and national securityhttp : **32;1596;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 6:29 pmText of the speech delivered by the Minister of Law and Order and Southern Development Sagala Ratnayaka at the 9th Kotelawala Defence University International Research Conference 2016 on Professional Integration for a Secure Nation At the outset , I must convey my congratulations to Kotelawala Defence University ( KDU ) for the achievements it has made in the recent past and thank the authorities and the staff of KDU for their contribution to elevate the level of our armed forces by gradually enhancing the intellectual capacity of our officers over the last 35 years or so . Indeed , as a tertiary educational institution in Sri Lanka that gives a very high priority for high quality research and is systematically expanding to accommodate additional disciplines , KDU affirms and enhances the true purpose and meaning of an academy . In short , it sets an example to the entire tertiary education system in the country . caption id= " attachment208051 " align= " alignleft " width= " 200 " caption= " Law and Order Minister Sagala Ratnayaka : Civic duty is an every day affair " /caption The commitment to research is amply demonstrated by the fact that KDU has hosted eight international research conferences before this . Although primarily founded to train undergraduates in fields related to the broad subject of defence , KDU has evolved in a manner that clearly indicates an acknowledgement of the complexities related to issues of security in a fast changing environment of technological advancement along with the emergence of forces that not only has access to these but have no qualms about abusing the knowledge to produce horrific outcomes . Moreover , KDU has explicitly acknowledged that security in its broad sense is not limited to threats of a military kind . It is apt , then , that the theme of this conference recognizes the need for integrated approaches in issues pertaining to national security . National security is a concern of very high priority of every country , and it has become vitally important in the modern context of complex geopolitical , economic and social realities in the world . We live , after all , in a world where threats are both internal and external . The enemy , so to speak , operates with scant regard for national boundaries . We live in an era of transnational terrorism where the enemy operates on multiple fronts using multiple pathways . Infiltration is no longer about the enemy breaking through defence lines or territorial boundaries surreptitiously . It is also about breaking into repositories of sensitive information . It is about codes within codes , the manipulation of minds through multiple mechanisms , and the sophisticated use of misinformation . The preying on vulnerabilities is far more complex than it used to be even a mere decade ago . All the more reason to empower readiness with integrated approaches . Needless to say in this effort , serious , uncompromising and dedicated research is a non-negotiable prerequisite . We have learnt through the harsh experience of two bloody insurrections and a three decade long war that national security is not a matter than can be handled by the security forces of a country alone . Whether we like it or not , it is a matter where every citizen has a role to play , however small it may be . An alert , informed , educated and disciplined citizenry is an invaluable auxiliary force to the formal institutions dedicated to national security . You would no doubt discuss during these sessions the important roles played by non-military sections of the population in securing our nation from the threat of terrorism . True professionalism in whatever field , contributes immensely . Knowledge-produced through research in whatever field of study is useful one way or another . The integration of professionalism , then , produces a bulwark that can make a huge difference in strengthening the theatre of security in a country . The conference will no doubt provide opportunity for stimulating discussion on such issues and for a sharing of knowledge that help the participants in their search for answers to complex problems . When I referred to Sri Lanka 's experiences on the subject of national security , I spoke in the past tense . We have lived through harsh times where death , dismemberment , destruction and displacement were part of the everyday stories of individual as well as collective tragedy . Today , in our present , we have recognized the importance of addressing anomalies which can be exploited to the point of creating conditions for conflict that lends a hand to extremisms . If our approach to ending a long drawn conflict draw from multiple disciples and their effective integration , then the post-conflict struggle for reconciliation and sustainable peace must build on those strengths . We have recognized this and our Government is sparing no pains to mobilize the very same resources for this purpose . Indeed , our policies are based on the overarching theme of integration and unification , that is the integration of all irrespective of ethnic , religious , caste , class or any other differences as we strive to achieve and strengthen peace , harmony and coexistence , which are the signs of a secure nation , a nation of strength that can withstand any internal or external threats to its national security . It is in this context that I believe that the deliberations on the subject of integrity ought to consider the interrelated nature of democracy and development with the more traditional , that is to say military , aspects of national security . I am sure that this distinguished audience is well aware of the fact that there are threats of many kinds . Poverty , unequal distribution of resources , division along petty political lines , social fragmentation , inadequate employment , corruption and malpractices , the proliferation of drugs among the youth , inadequate healthcare and cyber-crime are common to most if not all countries . They all constitute threats to security of one kind or another . In such a context , we must realize that neither the government nor the security forces can single-handedly confront the multiplicity of threats . They need the support of all professionals to work together to ensure a secure nation for the younger generations and indeed generations yet to come . So , whether you are an academic , an engineer , a doctor , a lawyer , an accountant , a manager , a politician or a member of any other profession , you need to clearly identify the role you play and perform it with the utmost commitment to make the nation a secure one from diverse threats that may be local or international . Everyone , then , has a part to play , a civic responsibility if you will , in strengthening democracy and a development drive which seeks to move towards resolving societal anomalies that threaten peace , stability and indeed democracy itself . Sri Lanka has learnt that insecurities generated by poor representation , limiting of freedom , mal-development , societal anomalies , the limiting of opportunities and the non-satisfaction of reasonable aspirations have often provided the conditions for fissures that produce national security nightmares . I am encouraged therefore by the fact that KDU has embraced spheres that are not traditionally associated with national security . We need , as all nations need , young men and women who are well-versed in all the subjects related to development even as we need , as always nations do , young men and women who are empowered with the knowledge necessary to handle those security threats that are of a military nature . We need simultaneously to correct systemic flaws that inhibit freedom , and to strengthen existing structures that make for a healthy democracy , including , where necessary , amendment of relevant legislation and creating institutional arrangements that safeguard these rights . I can not emphasize enough , therefore , that the present government of Sri Lanka , under the leadership of President Maithripala Sirisena and the Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe , is totally committed to taking every possible step to maintain the status of our country as a secure nation in the broad sense I 've outlined above . Our approach has been and will be holistic . We stick to the fundamental principles of good governance . We are determined to put in place the checks and balances that insure our people and our nation against system-abuse . We believe that this is a necessary precondition not just for a healthy democracy but to ensure that the best minds in the relevant fields are mobilised to serve the national interest . In the relatively short period of time since President Sirisena was elected and a new Government ushered in , we have made considerable progress against the stiff odds . The foundation for democratic change has been laid and we are determined to build a strong edifice that will stand the test of time . The best democracy , if it is poor , will not make a happy citizenry . An unhappy , disillusioned and frustrated citizenry is not the best news for either democracy or national security . What democracy does is to create the space necessary for the airing of grievances . However , if such aired grievances are not addressed or due to reasons of economic stress can not be addressed , democracy itself is rendered vulnerable . This is why development is priority . We must understand that vulnerabilities are preyed on by forces bent on destruction and thrive in situations of anarchy . Let it not be said that this Government in setting itself an agenda that focuses on development and the democratic reforms necessary to ensure accountability , transparency and the rule of law , is neglecting what has traditionally been considered the preserve of the security forces . We are acutely aware , as I mentioned at the beginning , of the possibility of national security being breached , less on account of mal-development , constitutional error or flaw , and non-addressing of grievances , but the threat of incorrigible players that can and will exploit the slightest weakness in a security system . We do recognize the palpable need for a demilitarisation the fulfilling of which grants relief to a war-weary nation desperately in need of pushing aside the signs and symbols of conflict.We have been mandated to do this . On the other hand , let it not be , that this amounts to a dropping of the guard . No nation , however small , can afford to do this . A nation such as ours which has had the bitter experience of suffering setbacks on all fronts due to unpreparedness will not be caught napping . Demilitarisation , ladies and gentlemen , does not mean a suspension of a military apparatus . The withdrawal of non-strategic wartime camps and the removal of checkpoints are necessary measures in a country that moves from a conflict mindset to one which needs to get used to the ideas of peace , reconciliation and co-existence . However , we have not and will not compromise the intelligence element of national security measures . Intelligence , you would agree , is a key component of any national security apparatus . We recognize this . Few predicted the upheavals of 1971 and 1988-89 . Few thought that unrest among young people in certain parts of the country would snowball into a full blown war that set the country back by several decades , not just hampering and indeed bringing to a halt national development , but causing large scale destruction to state resources and human resources . We can not predict what terrors the future holds . We can do our best to ensure that conditions for such eruptions are not created , but human frailty there will always be , and there will always be extremist elements that can destroy the best laid plans . There is no substitute for readiness on these matters . In all this , the efforts of a well-meaning government will come to naught without the wholehearted support of the citizenry and especially the professionals . The role of the Government is to create conditions which encourage the citizens and professionals to recognise this and clear pathways for everyone to engage positively and in the spirit of civic responsibility . The people of Sri Lanka can look back and feel proud of their achievements . Everyone played a part . However , all of us must understand that civic duty is not something one is called upon to demonstrate in a moment of crisis but that it is an everyday affair . We all have to do our bit because we all benefit from the commitment and efforts of those who do so . Whether we emerge as a more wholesome nation that upholds the principles of democracy , celebrates the rule of law and enjoys the full flowering of respect and civility depends on this commitment . I should say , ' this commitment to an integrated effort to ensure the security of the nation on all counts ' . A Royal hashhttp : **36;1630;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 6:22 pmWho 's running the school to the ground ? By Roy Alboy " Vandals may strive to sack our seat of learning , And even raze it to the ground by burning , But Royal 's spirit never can go cold , Her blood is Blue , her heart is solid Gold ! -Alexis Roberts ( From a College magazine , 1961. ) caption id= " attachment208043 " align= " alignright " width= " 400 " caption= " Royal College , Colombo " /caption Who runs Royal ? is the burning question in the minds of its stakeholders - parents , teachers , old boys and well wishers . Many actions of the recent past , be it by the state , the ministry or the new man at the helm , is felt by its stakeholders as not in the best interests of the school or the 8000 plus children attending it . One then can transform the burning question to read ' Who is running Royal to the ground ' ? History has shown that Royal College being the largest public school in the country serves the nation best by moulding its young men to become responsible citizens . Hence Royal 's decline becomes a matter of interest not only to the immediate community interacting with the school , but also to the entire nation . Earlier this year , the Minister of Education used his imperious powers with the country 's top Royals to evict the long time head of this august institution . Various allegations were laid across the man 's chest , some of which we are told are still under investigation . The past head , unceremoniously evicted thus , is currently languishing with no proper job to do . For the first time at Royal , the gala send off privileged for the head of the school at the end of their tenure , was not to be as his removal was quick and surgical . Many past and present Royalists were unsure of the reasons for his transfer and unhappy with the manner in which the surgery was swiftly performed . After all the man had served the school for 12 long years ! A new man was thrust upon the hallowed institution as a replacement despite serious allegations when he was at the helm of Ananda College , Colombo . Six months or more have passed with him as head , but signs are disturbing as one is at a loss to figure out as to who the real decision maker at Royal is . Many characters are seen to portray themselves as veritable play makers and or king makers . First amongst these is a senior official planted at Royal by the ministry of education during the reign of the past Principal . He was quickly found to be wanting in ability and character and viewed by the school community as totally unworthy , unsuitable and incapable of handling a senior position in the county 's largest public school . This person who , since embracing lay life , was investigated and removed from the Defence College , Colombo previously . He is toeing a Sinhala-only policy playing the nationalist card because Royal is a state school . Stakeholders are blaming the authorities in the Ministry for assigning him to Royal . After all Royal has been one of the very few secular schools in the country well represented by the country 's ethnic diversity . On the other hand a band of teachers , who have upstaged the management committee within the school and were the flag bearers in welcoming the new head when he arrived to take up the appointment , are seen to call the shots influencing the new head at each turn . This group is known to have the backing of an ex deputy Principal , who had to leave Royal under controversial circumstances with a history of creating conflicts at each of her past appointments . This nexus of influence also has within , a past retired Principal of Royal who recently was obnoxious enough to walk unannounced into a management meeting of the school to hold forth ! The current teachers , the ex-deputy Principal and the past retired Principal are presiding over the demise of the great institution making administrative changes , influencing sports awards and even threatening teachers with transfers , if they do n't fall in line . It is alleged that the ex- deputy Principal wields overwhelming influence over the incumbent Minister of Education . Another surprising play maker is the SDS committee appointed in April 2016 , who for lack of better description acts the proverbial bull in the china shop ! The re-emergence of a former SDS official , who held the same office a few years ago , is too good to be perceived as coincidental . The man in question held the same office under the immediate past Principal , left office with a soured relationship and campaigned heavily for the candidacy this time around . A set of teachers who vociferously supported his election were the ones who aligned with the former deputy Principal to revolt against the then Principal . It is no secret that the re-emergence of this character was not an incidence of mere chance , but was an organised move instigated from outside school quarters . The SDS official and another who is a teacher and coincidentally an old boy and parent , are dictating terms to the current Principal who remains the ex-officio President of the SDS . This ' gang ' is today over-stepping their authority assuming leadership and dictating terms at fora such as the century old Games Council and other activities of the school . Surprisingly , the current head allows such high-handed acts to happen right under his nose claiming he has no control over these influential sorts . The actions of these SDS officers have created disgust amongst stakeholders within the school which has affected many activities of the school . The said SDS officers along with the newly appointed head , have also stated publicly that they plan to bring down a peg or two , the Royal College Union , the most revered alumni association of Royal , which has served the school in good stead for a period of over 125 years ! As a wag commented ' the SDS has now become the School Destruction Society ? The irony is that , all this is happening under a regime where the Prime Minister of the country , an ardent old boy who was once an active member of the Royal College Union and 28 other old boys , are members of parliament and the bulk of them come from the ruling parties . It is impossible that these occurrences are blind to those in power and begs the question of how long this ' gang ' of destructive elements are allowed to carry out the destruction of this great institution ? It is timely that those holding power take an interest in their alma-mater and act swiftly to ensure corrective action so as to preserve the traditions of Royal and not let it be governed by self-centred individuals whose short term interest is to be the play makers of the day but in the long term , destroy the long established traditions of Royal that has stood the test of time . " When the swamp disappears , there will be no mosquitoes " The battle of the burkinihttp : **33;1668;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 6:19 pmBy Ian Buruma LONDON -- There has been a lot of fuss lately about the handful of Muslim women who choose to bathe on French beaches wearing a special garment that covers the head ( not the face ) , and much of the body . That garment -- the so-called burkini -- was invented in 2004 by an Australian-Lebanese woman named Aheda Zanetti , with the goal of enabling even the strictest Muslim women to swim or play sports in public . Little did Zanetti know that her creation would generate a national controversy . caption id= " attachment208037 " align= " alignright " width= " 400 " caption= " A woman wearing a burkini walks in the water August 27 , 2016 on a beach in Marseille , France a day after the country 's highest administrative court suspended a ban on full-body burkini swimsuits that has outraged Muslims and opened divisions within the government pending a definitive ruling . Reuters " /caption The imbroglio started when mayors in several southern French seaside towns banned burkinis on their beaches . A grotesque photograph soon appeared in newspapers around the world of three armed French policemen forcing a woman to undress on a beach in Nice . Though the ban has now been invalidated by France 's highest court , it is still enforced in several seaside resorts . And , indeed , the controversy is far from over . Former French President Nicolas Sarkozy , who is now running for a new term , recently called the burkini a " provocation , " while Lionnel Luca , the mayor of Villeneuve-Loubet , spoke of " rampant Islamization . " The equally outraged Prime Minister Manuel Valls has called bare breasts a symbol of French republican liberty . After all , he concluded , was n't Marianne , the female symbol of the French Republic , usually depicted with her breasts exposed ? There is little doubt that Sarkozy 's opposition to the burkini is entirely opportunistic . The controversy represents yet another opportunity to stoke prejudice against an unpopular minority , in the hope of syphoning votes from the far-right National Front 's Marine Le Pen in the 2017 election . But , in a tradition that spans centuries of European missionary zeal , his opportunism has been cloaked in moral terms : " We do n't imprison women behind fabric . " Sarkozy would have us believe that the ban on burkinis is really meant to liberate Muslim women from primitive restrictions imposed by authoritarian Muslim men , just as British colonial rulers once liberated Indian Hindu widows from being burned alive to accompany their spouses in death . This reflects a broader tendency , which has been gaining traction since the end of the last century , to couch anti-Muslim rhetoric in the language of human rights , as though equal rights for women or gays were ancient Western customs that must be defended against alien religious bigotry . In Valls 's version of history , public nudity is a cherished French tradition and a sign of freedom . To be fully French , it seems , women must , like Marianne , bare their breasts . Yet , in the nineteenth century , when Marianne became a symbol of the French Republic , nudity was acceptable only in an idealized form , in paintings or sculptures of Greek deities and other mythical heroines . It was fine to gaze at the breasts of a painted nude Marianne or Venus ; but for a real , living woman to expose even part of her ankle was considered highly improper . Of course , nowadays , these attitudes are rare in the Western world . So even though Valls 's version of history is skewed , one might argue that European Muslims who insist that women of their faith should be covered up are out of step -- especially given that women sometimes have little choice in the matter . Indeed , in some immigrant areas , Muslim women feel obliged to cover their heads , lest Muslim men see them as prostitutes , who may be molested with impunity . But this is not always the case . Some Muslim women actually choose to wear a hijab and , in rare cases , a burkini . The question is whether the State should be determining what citizens should or should not wear . The French republican answer is that people may wear whatever they like in private , but must conform to secular rules in public . In recent years , however , those rules have been applied more strictly to Muslims than to members of any other faith . I have not heard of policemen forcing orthodox Jewish women to bare their heads by ripping off their wigs . Well , some might argue , orthodox Jews are not responsible for massacres in the name of their religion . And that is true . But the assumption that women in burkinis are all potential terrorists is farfetched . A woman lying on a beach in a body-covering swimsuit is probably the least likely person to start shooting or bombing . As for the argument that Muslim women need the state to free them from Muslim men who force them to wrap their heads in scarves or cover up their bodies , the question is whether this is worth depriving other women of their choice to appear in public in these ways . I am inclined to doubt that it is . The best way to help women escape from domestic authoritarianism is to encourage them to lead public lives as well , in schools , in offices , and on beaches . It is better for a woman to be educated in a headscarf than not to be educated at all . For certain public functions , it is perfectly legitimate to ask people to show their faces . Some jobs come with certain dress codes . Private companies can insist on their own rules ; there is no need for national legislation . The excessive imposition of conformity by the state can actually have the opposite effect than what is intended . Forcing people to adhere to a common identity fosters a rebellious insistence on difference . It is no good telling people named Fatima or Mohammed that they are French and must adhere to the norms laid down by Sarkozy or Valls , if they are not treated as equals by people called Nicolas or Marianne . Wearing a headscarf , beard , or bodysuit can be a harmless way for humiliated people to defend their pride . Take away that pride , and defensiveness can swiftly become less harmless . ( The writer is the Professor of Democracy , Human Rights , and Journalism at Bard College , and the author of Year Zero : A History of 1945 . ) Courtesy : Project Syndicate , 2016 . Exclusive to the Sunday **38;1703;TOOLONG national education : the SAITM modelhttp : **35;1743;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 6:16 pmBy Chula Goonasekera and Mahes Salgado In Sri Lanka , anything ' private ' seems not too good nationally . Nationalisation is the buzz word , as it means somebody else 's effort and work is acquired for presumed wider benefit of the public . Historically , however , this process is a proven pathway of ' politicisation ' leading to a gradual downfall of the institution ending up with increased public liability . A majority of the public see ' privatisation ' as a provision for public exploitation . But , is it ? This impression is also prevalent amongst our reporters and publishers . This article is about one example where ' private education ' can be used for national benefit . Not many would want to publish this kind of article in their newspaper or website as it does not favour the buzz word , ' nationalisation ' and unfortunately , this kind of publication bias factures the foundation of independent reporting , which an essential feature of true democracy and healthy debate . The South Asian Institute of Technology and Medicine ( SAITM ) was a contemporary campus established in 2011 in Colombo to provide tertiary education for self-funding students . caption id= " attachment208033 " align= " alignright " width= " 300 " caption= " A protest campaign broke out against the South Asian Institute of Technology and Medicine ( SAITM ) mainly led by students attending state universities who enjoy free education . " /caption It acquired degree awarding status for the MBBS medical undergraduate degree in 2013 and was to be on par with the MBBS degree awarded by the state universities in Sri Lanka . Since the course was fee levying , it was affordable only to a fraction of our community . This created a sense of a ' class ' divide . As a consequence , a protest campaign broke out against the SAITM which was mainly led by students attending the state universities who are enjoying free education . The protests were similar to those that were staged against the North Colombo Medical College ( NCMC ) two decades ago , the first privately funded medical school in Sri Lanka started in 1980 . The NCMC was abolished and nationalised in 1989 and was absorbed into the state sector , and renamed Faculty of Medicine , University of Kelaniya . I have no connection whatsoever with the SAITM . I am also not sympathetic to the protesters as their demands are extremely selfish . However , I see a novel educational model within this framework that can kick start our stagnant tertiary education system in Sri Lanka . Having studied and worked in a state university for over 20 years , my interest is to uplift tertiary education . We can re-model this educational pathway with broader understanding to benefit the entire nation as a whole . When I entered the Faculty of Medicine , University of Peradeniya in 1975 to study medicine , only two per cent of the Advanced Level student population got an opportunity to enter university . The remaining 98% that ' failed ' entry ( not because they failed the Advanced Level Exam ) had to find their own ways and self-fund their tertiary education . Today in 2016 , after 40 years has gone by nothing much has changed . Only three per cent of the Advanced Level student population gain an opportunity to enter a Sri Lankan university . Sadly , as a country we have not really made any progress with regard to tertiary education for our children . This is a ' failed model ' that needs rational and radical modification . We can never be a developed country this way as we are not producing a sufficiently skilled workforce that can match the demands of a developed country . Unless , we resolve this educational gap , we are to see more and more people protesting along road sides demanding jobs that are non-existent . That is why we need to find another model for tertiary education in Sri Lanka -- without resorting to the export of housemaids . For us to be hopeful of becoming a developed nation , at least 40% of our Advanced Level student population should follow a relevant undergraduate degree program and acquire modern skills to cater to the current needs . There shall never be sufficient national funding for this purpose in the current environment of heavy national debt . Furthermore , free education is not sufficiently competitive to promote educational advances . Competitive education is not a bad thing . In fact conversely , it is the biggest impetus for modernisation . The tragedy is that 97% of students who did not get a chance to enter a Sri Lankan university not only have to self-fund their tertiary education under the current setting but also pay taxes to fund the three per cent who entered the university as they receive free education via public money . It is these three per cent of students , who are now securely placed in state universities wanting to block medical and some other education programs for the others . This is an inverted model of capitalism . Basically students in free education want to ' privatise ' medical education for themselves . In the socialistic jargon , this is another form of the caste system , based on the Z-score mania . They have no right to interfere with anybody else 's education , especially when they are funding it by themselves . The problem with the SAITM is its lack of transparency in the student selection process and inaccessibility to the common man who can not afford the fees . Both these issues can be resolved relatively easily . The solution is within grasp in four realistic steps . n The SAITM gets included in the University Grants Commission ( UGC ) admission hand book and student selection takes place via the UGC as for any other university study program in the country . Therefore , the current nationally accepted selection process will take over student selection to SAITM . In the UGC book this program should be identified as a ' fee levying ' program with details of the cost . n The UGC Quality Assurance Council and the Sri Lanka Medical Council ( SLMC ) approve the acceptability of its curriculum with the relevant improvements . n Advanced Level students can now select their choices upon their merit and include the SAITM also if they so wish . This will ensure equity at the application and entry level . n If a student selected to the SAITM can not afford the course fees there should be provision for him/her to apply for a low-cost repayable government loan . The loans are subject to mandatory repayment in instalments after their qualification and employment . Thus , ensuring that the increasing numbers of students entering tertiary education do not become a national burden . n The SAITM be declared as a non-profit making organisation and subject to the Government auditor 's scrutiny . The SAITM will this way come under the national framework as any other state university . However , the SAITM should preserve its automaticity and modify its curricula in keeping with rapidly evolving medical knowledge . It should also retain its right to the processes of modification and recruitment of staff . It should also preserve the right to select a small proportion of exceptional students , including foreign students in keeping with UGC policy . This is to ensure that these institutions are not ' locked ' in with an outdated national model and can improve the quality of their programs to maintain student demand and become financially self-sufficient . Fifty per cent of medical knowledge changes every five years . The current curricula revision pathway in the national university system is too snail paced to keep it modern and up-to-date . This is a good model of tertiary education that will apply to most other programs also . It will also invite other investors to establish quality educational institutions in Sri Lanka . It is also a model that can attract foreign students via our own A Level exams ( A major investment for the country ) . This will resolve this issue in the long run and allow more self-funded education programs to join the UGC . This will give a much needed boost to education in our country and also stop the brain drain of educators . ( Chula Goonasekera is a former professor and dean of the University of Peradeniya and Mahes Salgado is the Head of the English Language Teaching Unit . ) Traditional and not so traditional weaveshttp : **34;1780;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 6:10 pmThe Thunpath Rata - Traditional mats and woven products exhibition organised by the National Crafts Council and the Faculty of Visual Arts , University of the Visual and Performing Arts , which opened on September 8 at the J.D.A Perera Gallery , University of Visual and Performing Arts ends today at 8 p.m . Pix by Amila Gamage We can prevent suicideshttp : **32;1816;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 6:08 pmWorld Suicide Prevention Day -- September 10By Dr. Chithramalee de Silva The World Suicide prevention Day falls on September 10 every year . " Connect , communicate , care " is the theme of the 2016 World Suicide Prevention Day . These three words are at the heart of suicide prevention . They will raise public awareness about the importance of having a conversation and , most importantly , how . caption id= " attachment208021 " align= " alignleft " width= " 400 " caption= " The World Health Organisation says one person commits suicide every 40 seconds . Pic courtesy Reuters " /caption Suicide is a major public health problem worldwide and moreover it is considered as a social problem . Every suicidal death is a tragedy bringing the life of the person to a sudden end ; consequently , it has an unbearable effect on families , individuals and friends . The significant number of deaths and hospitalisations place a heavy burden on health systems and the socio economic impact is often huge . In the world , one person dies every 40 seconds due to suicide . According to the first suicide prevention report by the World Health Organisation , more than 800,000 people lose their life to suicide every year , corresponding to an annual global age standardised suicide rate of 11.4 per 100,000 population with 15 for males and 8 for females . In Sri Lanka nearly 3,000 people died in 2015 due to suicide with a death rate of 14.7 per 100,000 population ( Department of Police . 2015 ) . The rate of suicide is four times higher among men compared to women . The reasons In Sri Lanka , harassment by the spouse and family disputes were reported as the most common reason in 2014 while matters associated with love affairs ranked second . Chronic diseases and physical disabilities , underlying mental illness , economic reasons were the next common underlying factors for suicidal deaths , according to police reports . Some mental health conditions such as depression , schizophrenia and substance use disorders are major recognised risk factors for suicides and addressing these risk factors will result in suicide reduction . Many suicides are the result of an impulsive act , therefore identifying the people who are at high risk and attending to their psychological , physical , mental and socioeconomic needs are of paramount important . Impact Those who attempted suicide or died of suicide and their families experience considerable stigma , and may not seek care . This in turn affects the mental health of survivors and their families . Therefore , those who attempted suicide and their family members require continued support from health care providers for long a period as they face enormous difficulties in leading their life . Interventions available in Sri Lankan health system for suicide prevention : <p> Promoting competencies of school children through curriculum changes and life skills enhancing programmes <p> Awareness programmes for schoolchildren on study techniques , anger management , coping with stress and for parents on good parenting through school health programmes <p> De-criminalising suicides in health system ( not referred to as criminal acts ) and provision of better care for those who admitted to hospitals with attempted suicides <p> Screening for depression and suicidal risk -- especially for mothers during post-partum period <p> Provision of psychotherapy and psycho-social interventions for patients with mental illnesses <p> Availability of hotline for counselling -- 1333 <p> Strengthening community based mental health services to detect those at risk and provide them care <p> Media Influence Both print and electronic media have an enormous impact on the lives of people and therefore responsible media reporting is important in suicidal deaths . The vulnerability and susceptibility of the people often acts as a platform for individuals who are at a greater risk and media events that sensationalise and describe the act in its various dimensions can trigger these acts . Media can play an effective proactive role in suicide prevention by minimising the prominence given to suicide reports , informing public about sources of help and emergency helpline numbers , encouraging people to take action and seek care , conveying positive stories of people who have overcome suicidal thoughts and ideations . Actions to minimize suicides : <p> Encourage good social support for adolescents , youth and elderly who are at a higher risk <p> Good parenting care especially for young persons <p> Establishing counselling services in schools , community and work places <p> Identifying those who are at higher risk and provide care especially psychosocial care <p> Ensure correct medical treatment and follow up of patients with depression and other mental health problems <p> Establish hotlines for counselling and popularise among the community <p> Restrict the easy access to means of suicides ( safe storage of pesticides , chemicals and drugs at both individual and community levels ) <p> Strengthen good marital relationship while minimising the gender-based violence <p> Mental health promotion and suicide prevention are complementary to each other and policies and programmes addressed for mental health will also contribute for suicide prevention . <p> " Suicides are preventable ... and requires coordinated and sustained effort from multiple sectors of society , both public and private , including health and non-health sectors such as education , labour , agriculture , industry , justice , law , defence , politics and the media . These efforts must be comprehensive , integrated and synergistic as no single approach can impact alone on an issue as complex as suicide " ( WHO 2014 ) . ( The writer is Director Mental Health , Ministry of Health , Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine ) Dilip 's Dimbulla red wine adjudged best at Aussie showhttp : **36;1850;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 6:05 pmThe wine from Australia 's Dimbulla Estate owned by Sri Lankan businessman Dilip Kumar has been adjudged the Best Red Wine at this year 's Hunter Valley Wine show . The wine judged the Best Red Wine was a Tempranillo Shiraz 2014 . The Hunter Valley Wine Show is one of the most prestigious held in Australia every year . caption id= " attachment208118 " align= " alignleft " width= " 200 " caption= " WINE AND SHINE : Dilip with his super wine in one hand , the trophy in the other " /caption This small vineyard was named after the Sri Lanka tea growing area where Dilip worked for a time before migrating to Australia in 1974 . He pursued business interests in the automotive industry and became the successful owner of car , truck and bus Dealerships in Victoria and NSW . He now owns Peninsula Motor Group based in Bankstown in the western suburbs of Sydney where he has dealerships for Holden and Hyundai cars . He is also the Australian distributor for Hyundai Commercial Vehicles . About 15 years ago , Dilip acquired the land in the Hunter Valley and established 10 hectares of wine grape vines including Semillon , Shiraz and Tempranillo , which is a grape associated with the Spanish Rioja region . Vines take time to establish so it is only in the past five years that Dimbulla Estate wines began to win medals at regional wine shows . In the history of the Hunter Valley Wine Show , this is the first time that a blended wine has won the premier award . In all the other years , single variety Shiraz has been the dominant red wine at the show . A past pupil of Trinity College , Kandy , Dilip had a short career in tea plantations in Sri Lanka before he migrated to Australia . He graduated from the Dave Syme Business School of Monash University and the Harvard Business School in Boston , Massachusetts . Dilip says he has two abiding interests outside of business -- one is wine , the other is rugby , he was the chairman of the Australian Rugby Union in 2005 . After his playing days at the Dandenong Club in Victoria , he got involved in Rugby administration . He first sponsored the Warringah Rugby Club for 10 years and took it to four Sydney " A " Grade Championship Finals . He then joined the NSW Rugby Union Board was Chairman for four years . From 2000 to 2005 Dilip was a member of the Australian Rugby Union and he was the Chairman of the Finance and Audit Committee during the RWC 2003 . In 2005 he was appointed the Chairman of the Australian Rugby Union . Despite all this , Dilip considers that his greatest contribution to sport has been as a foundation trust Member of the Lloyd McDermott Rugby Development Team ( LMRDT ) which has been promoting rugby union among indigenous youth in Australia since 1992 . In that time thousands of young aboriginal children , mostly from remote areas , have been assisted through the LMRDT to play sport , finish their education and to find work . In 2000 , the Government of Australia awarded Dilip the Australian Sports Medal for his services to Rugby . Dilip is married to Barbara and has two children , both of whom have graduated with degrees in Business.Day of recollection for lawyershttp : **33;1888;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 6:05 pmA Bible study , prayer , praise , reflection and worship has been initiated for Catholic legal professionals meeting once every month at Buona Morte Church , Hulftsdorp . This being proclaimed the Jubilee year of Mercy , a day of recollection has been organised for Christian legal professionals and their spouses on September 16 ( Poya day ) at the Subodhi Institute , Piliyandala . Please confirm your participation with any one of the following : Fr. noel- 0777349446 ; Shamil Perera -0777 793 800 ; Shehan Gunawardena -077772699 ; Dutika Perera- 0772456772 and Dilhan- 0777741178SLFP at 65 : The crisis of Lanka 's political party systemhttp : **34;1923;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 6:03 pmBy Pradeep Peiris PhD The Sri Lanka Freedom Party 's 65th anniversary hit news headlines this time mainly due to the party 's current internal power struggle . Since January 2015 , the SLFP has been embroiled in a bitter internal power struggle between its current leader Maithripala Sirisena and his predecessor Mahinda Rajapaksa. caption id= " attachment208018 " align= " alignright " width= " 400 " caption= " The SLFP founded by S.W.R.D. Bandaranaike ( centre ) evolved under the leadership of his widow Sirima Bandaranaike , daughter Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga , Mahinda Rajapaksa and now President Sirisena " /caption After losing the Presidential election and having handed over the SLFP leadership , Rajapaksa started a new battle to regain power . His first priority seems to be to capture power within the party , despite the hullaballoo about a new party under his leadership . To counter the Rajapaksa-threat , Sirisena has not only had to secure his leadership within the party but also work to prevent the party 's ground level leadership joining Rajapaksa in his endeavor to form a new party . So , undoubtedly , the SLFP is experiencing an unprecedented internal crisis at the time it celebrates its 65th anniversary . Among political circles , there is a great deal of curiosity as to whether Rajapaksa will/can form a new political party that would deal a fatal blow to the SLFP and effectively end the six decades old two-party hegemony in the country 's electoral politics . I do not think Rajapaksa and his clique can form a new party that could decimate the SLFP and alter the current two-party system . For me , such a new party would end up being another ephemeral party -- a party that will last until its leaders find a permanent party . The current crisis in the SLFP is more to do with the peculiar nature in the functioning of the country 's political party system than a power struggle between two leaders . The post-independent electoral politics , during the past six decades , has produced a particular kind of party system in the country . Especially , the two main parties -- the UNP and the SLFP -- have become institutionally weak and ideologically ambiguous entities that are more or less hostages of their leaders . Therefore , internal crisis is almost unavoidable at times when a party -- especially one of these two main parties -- is experiencing a transition of its leadership . For me , the SLFP 's crisis alludes to the true nature of the functioning of political parties and electoral efficacy in Sri Lanka . From parties of ideas to parties for material benefits The SLFP was formed to provide a voice for the long neglected grievances of the rural Sinhala Buddhist community in the country . Of course , the political ambitions of S.W.R.D. Bandaranaike and the internecine struggle among the UNP leadership at that time could have also paved the way for the emergence of the SLFP . However , the SLFP under Bandaranaike who clearly appealed to the Sinhala Buddhist countryside could not identify itself either with the right wing ideas of the UNP or extreme Marxist ideas . Owing to its poly-ethnic and classist outlook , the UNP too did not show much interest in representing the interests of Sinhala Buddhist nationalists , which , at that time , was thought to be sectarian politics . On the other hand , the Marxist parties , the then main opposition to the UNP , also insisted on maintaining their secularism to focus on the economic and social problems of the day . Therefore , at the outset , the SLFP was a party of ideas and values and was formed with the intention of tapping into the Sinhala Buddhist rural electorate . Owing to this history , the SLFP has been widely perceived as a party of the Sinhalese Buddhists and marginalised social and economic classes in rural Sri Lanka . However , the SLFP has never been exclusively a party of Buddhists or the poor . The two-party electoral competition that came to govern the electoral politics in the country since 1956 not only changed the dynamics of the electorates , but also subjected both the SLFP and its rival UNP to continuous transformation . Following the strategy of the UNP , every time when it was voted out of office , the SLFP also exhibited a great deal of willingness to relax its ideological commitments for the sake of widening its voter bases to regain power . Also in their quest for power , both the UNP and the SLFP paid more attention to the distribution of patronage . Therefore , once elected , both these parties relied chiefly on the distribution of patronage to retain power . In this context , especially after 1994 , the SLFP did not bother to maintain a consistent and distinct ideological position on many vital issues . These electoral practices of the two main parties , over the past six decades , have contributed towards weakening the effect of traditional cleavages such as caste , class and religion among factions of the Sinhalese society . Instead , such politics has contributed to the emergence of a new political cleavage based on the voters ' party-identity . Leader is ' the institution ' During the initial phase of the formation of Sri Lankan political parties , political elites were more prominent than party institutions . Therefore , Calvin Woodward referred to the then party system as ' parties of notables ' . Although both main parties made successful attempts at building formal party organisational structures , during the period from 1960s to 1970s , they still failed to end the dominance of families in electoral politics . Particularly with the introduction of the Executive Presidency , parties increasingly became servants of their leaders and their coterie of close confidants , who control the policies and strategies of the party . As a result , the same party would , under different leadership , often subscribe to different ideological and policy programmes . For example , the SLFP stood for slightly different or sometimes contradictory ideological and policy programmes under the leadership of Sirimavo Bandaranaike , Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga , Mahinda Rajapaksa and Maithripala Sirisena . The Proportional Representation system influenced the SLFP to broaden its electoral coalition . Thus , Kumaratunga , reached out to minority ethnic parties , in addition to its traditional Leftist partners , to form the People 's Alliance regime . Later , her successor , Mahinda Rajapaksa further increased the number of constituent partners in his regime by inviting the Sinhalese Nationalist parties too . He also incited crossovers from many smaller parties across a wide ideological spectrum to strengthen his position within Parliament . The alliances that the SLFP formed with various parties and individuals , during the past decades , were actually personal initiations of the incumbent leader of the party , dictated by electoral calculations . As noted previously , this situation intensified with the introduction of the Executive Presidency which was more about the individual leader than the party as a whole . Therefore , the phenomenon of the party leader having an independent organisational structure parallel to the formal party structure has become increasingly visible . These informal and parallel party structures are extremely helpful for the leader to consolidate and expand his powers within the party . When the party is in power , it is easy for the leader to replace the party institution with his/her own personal network of cronies . Therefore , as a result , once out of power , both these main parties -- the UNP and the SLFP -- struggle with a series of internal crises , and threats of disintegration and defections . Today , what the SLFP is experiencing is simply a bitter consequence of the peculiar nature of the country 's electoral politics which , one must remember , is not a fate that is exclusive to the SLFP . ( Dr Pradeep Peiris is a Director at Social Scientists Association , Colombo and teaches at the Dept of Political Science , Colombo , Sri Lanka . He can be contacted on pnpeiris@gmail.com ) PM calls for an Indian Ocean Orderhttp : **35;1959;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 12:04 am'Global Power Transition and the Indian Ocean ' --Inaugural address by Premier Ranil Wickremesinghe at the Indian Ocean Conference on September 1 , in SingaporeNo one state to dominate , cooperation between SAARC and ASEAN needed Over the past 500 years , the Indian Ocean region lost control of its geo-political and geo-economic relevance . First the entire region was subjugated to colonial dictates , and then in the post-colonial era , to cold war concerns and global power plays . You will agree with me that currently the global political and economic balance of power is undergoing tectonic shifts and major re-adjustments are in the offing . Single power and duopoly appear to be a thing of the past , and for the first time in five centuries economic power in the world is moving again towards Asia . caption id= " attachment207509 " align= " alignleft " width= " 400 " caption= " Ranil Wickremesinghe addresses the Indian Ocean conference on Thursday , Sept 1 . EPS " /caption Aside from which the global financial system is moving away from a single currency ( the dollar ) dominated international system towards a multi-currency international system . New sources of investment capital are reducing western dominance . New consumer markets and the expansion of the Asian middle class are changing the traditional focus of markets . Several megatrends are also poised to enhance on this shift . First , it is expected that the individual will be empowered due to reduction in poverty , the rise of the middle classes , the ICT revolution and widespread use of communication technology , the social media and better health care . Second , there will be a diffusion of power with the unipolar world - giving way to a multipolar one - based on networks , coalitions and alliances . Third , demographic changes , aging populations will impact on economic growth of certain countries . Fourth , the demand for food , water and energy resources will increase substantially with the growth of the global population . And fifth , climate change and shifts in the environment will impact on economies across regions . This re-adjustment is increasingly evident in the economic forecast for the next few decades . There will be resistance to any single country attempting to unilaterally shape the strategic order of the region . Yet building political will and strategic trust and the institution of institutional structures are all prerequisites for such an inclusive multilateral strategic security order that can respond in case of any emergency . But in reality , these two oceans of Asia also make for two distinct spheres of influence within the Asian continent , each maintaining separate sophisticated trading and political systems while interacting with each other . The Indian Ocean still has a heavy British influence- the Pacific has taken to American practices . We play cricket , they play baseball , the rest play football . For instance , unlike the Indian Ocean , the Pacific Region has been intrinsic to US security . For this reason US Administrations from Presidents Franklin D Roosevelt to George W Bush have treated these two areas separately . On the other hand - the countries in the Indian Ocean Region have historically been reluctant to join power blocs . Despite superior economic and military might , even during colonial times it was difficult to dictate the future of the Indian Ocean Region . The countries of the region have historically played a significant role in global trade and commerce , given rise to some of the great civilizations and religions of the world , and are home to unique and diverse cultures and histories . Whilst partnership and collaborative relationships were built with countries and civilizations outside the region , the region maintained its multipolar characteristic . To my mind , the notion of Indo-Pacific or the Indo Asia-Pacific appears destined to remain a more conceptual rather than a realistic premise . The collapse of the Trans Pacific Partnership has further weakened the arguments for it . Ladies and Gentlemen , In contrast , the Indian Ocean has emerged as one of the world 's busiest and most critical trade corridors , rapidly surpassing the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans . Covering a vast global expanse - extending to East Africa in the West , Australia in the East , South Africa in the South , the Indian Ocean is well poised to regain its influence in world politics and the global economy . The Indian Ocean Region has always been a significant playing field for big powers . Historically it has also been a bridge between the East and West . Moreover , South Asia is also kindling underpinned by the growth of India , making it one of the fastest growing regions of the world . Since South Asia dominates the Indian Ocean and therefore this power transition in the Indian Ocean will be heavily influenced by South Asian developments . Consequently , I see the South Asia and ASEAN countries presenting an emerging opportunity that can bring with it benefits similar to those that came in the past to the Atlantic and Pacific basins . That is the challenge of the next decade or two . Our responses will shape our destiny in the 21st Century . The cooperation and coordination between ASEAN and SAARC including the Ramayana Connection have given us strong cultural affinities . We have similar Governmental institutions and commercial practices . The English language is a link language . We have a huge cohort of youth more regionally conscious than their parents . We also have a lot of work to do in bringing these two groups together . More frank in-depth discussions ; Ongoing dialogue at the highest levels . We must not allow the internal disputes and differences of these multilateral organisations to impede the collective relationships between the two groups . It also challenges SAARC to reach a higher level of cooperation than what we have been able to achieve so far . The opportunities are there - waiting to be exploited -- and with ingenuity we should be able to forge ahead . Ladies and Gentlemen The multipolar world we live in will be dominated by the competition among the five or six major Global powers during the next two decades . It may well be a protracted undetermined contest . The Indian Ocean will be a major theatre of competition . But the multiplicity of contestants gives us - in the region - a margin of flexibility , which we must utilize to determine the regional order . We must commit ourselves to an order based on the rights of all States to the freedom of navigation - the unimpeded lawful maritime commerce and over-flight . Our own futures and the futures of our extra regional partners are therefore heavily invested in how strategic security is managed in the region . Many countries remain dependent on energy supplies and traded goods that are carried across the region . Those who are geographically located in the region have a primary interest in the security of the Ocean , which is more often than not linked to their economies and the livelihoods of their people . Managing competition and strengthening cooperation would be essential given both these economic and strategic security factors , which have a direct impact on the future of this region . This is something we can not do alone . There are major power interests at play particularly those of China and Japan . Middle power interest such as those of the Republic of Korea ( ROK ) and Australia . Nor have the US and the European entity relinquished their interest in the region . It is time for Indian Ocean countries especially Asian nations to take the lead in determining their own future . It is our belief that an Indian Ocean Order needs to be crafted with accepted rules and agreements that would guide interactions between states . This Order needs to be built on a consensual agreement and no singular State should dominate the system . The Indian Ocean Order would have the primary responsibility of upholding the freedom of navigation in the Indian Ocean , ensuring that shipping and air routes to East Asia and beyond are kept open , building closer economic cooperation amongst countries in the region , incorporating an Indian Ocean Development Fund for development of the region , and in particular , establishing a strong Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Management mechanism to deal with natural and manmade disasters . Today , IORA ( the Indian Ocean Rim Association ) the regional organization is not an effective force and has fallen short of expected levels of delivery with regard to regional cooperation . It is dormant when the strategic concepts concerning the Indian Ocean are being discussed . What is required as a start is a dialogue between SAARC and ASEAN leaders . Indonesia , an ASEAN member also the current Chair of the IORA , can initiate this dialogue -- spanning the IORA and all the interested major and middle powers . The final objective will be the agreement on an Indian Ocean Order . A settled arrangement guiding the interaction between states to ensure the safety and security of the Indian Ocean and its lanes of communications . An Order established by consensual agreement for a peaceful maritime security space and the strengthening of Maritime Security cooperation for mutual benefit . Such an Indian Ocean Order can only be consolidated by strong and meaningful regional cooperation . IORA 's present scope of meeting at official and ministerial level is insufficient for this purpose . This is where organizations such as the India Foundation have a role to play ; To present proposals for closer cooperation . Two of the areas requiring your efforts will be - firstly the establishment of an Indian Ocean Assembly . An Assembly which brings together inter alia Heads of State and Governments , leaders of political parties , officials , academics , intellectuals , non-governmental sectors , cultural and commercial leaders , media representatives , youth groups in order to recommend measures for consideration by the Indian Ocean region . Secondly a programme for cooperation in Education and Human Capital Development . This single measure will make a significant contribution to the rapid development of the region . Our task , then , is to begin building a political eco-system that is both prescriptive and preventive ; prescriptive in that it creates a structure out of the natural affinities of geography , culture and resources that already exist ; preventive in that it contains the inevitable local disputes and prevents them from disrupting or spilling over on to a common Indian Ocean agenda . ( Full text ) <p> Global Power Transition and the Indian Ocean <p> Inaugural Address by Hon. Ranil Wickremesinghe <p> Prime Minister of Sri Lankaat the <p> Indian Ocean Conference on 1st September 2016 <p> Shangri La Hotel , Singapore <p> Y B ( Yang Berhormat ) Dato ' Seri Dr Ahmad Zahid Bin Hamidi , Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Home Affairs of Malaysia His Excellency Dr Vivian Balakrishnan , Minister for Foreign Affairs of Singapore Shri Nitin Gadkari , Minister of Road , Transport and Highways of India Excellencies Ladies and Gentlemen It is a great pleasure to be here . I want to thank the India Foundation for the invitation extended to give the inaugural address at the " Indian Ocean Conference 2016 " . I am pleased to see the India Foundation partnering with important think-tanks across Asia , the RSIS , BIISS and IPS to create this platform for discussion and intellectual exchange . Let me also commend the Conference organizers for their foresight in convening this important Conference given the changing historical power context in the world . Over the past 500 years , the Indian Ocean region lost control of its geo-political and geo-economic relevance . First the entire region was subjugated to colonial dictates , and then in the post-colonial era , to cold war concerns and global power plays . You will agree with me that currently the global political and economic balance of power is undergoing tectonic shifts and major re-adjustments are in the offing . Single power and duopoly appear to be a thing of the past , and for the first time in five centuries economic power in the world is moving again towards Asia . Aside from which the global financial system is moving away from a single currency ( the dollar ) dominated international system towards a multi-currency international system . New sources of investment capital are reducing western dominance . New consumer markets and the expansion of the Asian middle class are changing the traditional focus of markets . Several megatrends are also poised to enhance on this shift . First , it is expected that the individual will be empowered due to reduction in poverty , the rise of the middle classes , the ICT revolution and widespread use of communication technology , the social media and better health care . Second , there will be a diffusion of power with the unipolar world - giving way to a multipolar one - based on networks , coalitions and alliances . Third , demographic changes , aging populations will impact on economic growth of certain countries . Fourth , the demand for food , water and energy resources will increase substantially with the growth of the global population . And fifth , climate change and shifts in the environment will impact on economies across regions . This re-adjustment is increasingly evident in the economic forecast for the next few decades . We can all tangibly feel how Asia is growing at a tremendous pace . The wealth and technology gap between the West and the East has narrowed significantly by the sheer weight of numbers in Asia . By the year 2030 , it is estimated that Asia will surpass North America and Europe combined , in terms of global power based on GDP , population size , military spending and technological investment . Of the four largest economies of the world -- China , US , India and Japan , three are located in Asia . This global power transition to Asia creates both opportunities and challenges for Asia as whole and the Indian Ocean in particular . This Conference , therefore , is timely and significant . Ladies and Gentlemen , This transition in global power can be traced to the economic awakening of East Asia , driven by the growth of China and the complementary growth of ASEAN countries - particularly Indonesia and Vietnam . Yet , parallel to that , the US had built close economic alliances and military arrangements with Asia-Pacific countries . Of course by 2008 there were setbacks suffered by the Western economies . This then challenged the western dominance of the global order and has led to an emerging multipolar global order . Now , the US is proposing the furtherance of a single combined security strategy for the two Asian oceans -- the Indian and the Pacific . Will this create a super region with Maritime Asia at its centre ? Obviously this will have new implications for Asian security . This is highlighted by the emergence of such concepts as the Indo-Pacific and more recently the Indo-Asia-Pacific . The question that remains is - whether such a region - on the scale of the Indo-Pacific or the Indo-Asia-Pacific is viable ? Ladies and Gentlemen The leading American political scientist and political economist , Francis Fukuyama in a recent interview remarked and I quote : " Asia is polycentric , multipolar , and constantly evolving . There is no uniformity in Asia in terms of geopolitics and culture and each of those countries is a separate world to itself , even as it overlaps in trade and commerce with its neighbors and with the United States . It is a challenge for Americans to keep up with that region . " The disparate nature of Asia not only in terms of size , resources , diversity and interests of both regional and extra regional states , but also growing militarization , historical disputes and strategic mistrust , pose serious challenges to the emergence of a viable and sustainable strategic security order . There will be resistance to any single country attempting to unilaterally shape the strategic order of the region . Yet building political will and strategic trust and the institution of institutional structures are all prerequisites for such an inclusive multilateral strategic security order that can respond in case of any emergency . But in reality , these two oceans of Asia also make for two distinct spheres of influence within the Asian continent , each maintaining separate sophisticated trading and political systems while interacting with each other . The Indian Ocean still has a heavy British influence- the Pacific has taken to American practices . We play cricket , they play baseball , the rest play football . For instance , unlike the Indian Ocean , the Pacific Region has been intrinsic to US security . For this reason US Administrations from Presidents Franklin D Roosevelt to George W Bush have treated these two areas separately . On the other hand - the countries in the Indian Ocean Region have historically been reluctant to join power blocs . Despite superior economic and military might , even during colonial times it was difficult to dictate the future of the Indian Ocean Region . The countries of the region have historically played a significant role in global trade and commerce , given rise to some of the great civilizations and religions of the world , and are home to unique and diverse cultures and histories . Whilst partnership and collaborative relationships were built with countries and civilizations outside the region , the region maintained its multipolar characteristic . To my mind , the notion of Indo-Pacific or the Indo Asia-Pacific appears destined to remain a more conceptual rather than a realistic premise . The collapse of the Trans Pacific Partnership has further weakened the arguments for it . Ladies and Gentlemen , In contrast , the Indian Ocean has emerged as one of the world 's busiest and most critical trade corridors , rapidly surpassing the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans . Covering a vast global expanse - extending to East Africa in the West , Australia in the East , South Africa in the South , the Indian Ocean is well poised to regain its influence in world politics and the global economy . The Indian Ocean Region has always been a significant playing field for big powers . Historically it has also been a bridge between the East and West . Today the region is acquiring an intrinsic significance of its own . The Atlantic basin is declining . Central Asia and Africa have yet to evolve into mature political economies . The Middle East is in turmoil and Latin America is also undergoing a somewhat troubled growth . The Pacific basin - particularly the Eastern Pacific is very dynamic but it has its own latent instabilities such as the South China Sea and East China Sea disputes , developments in North Korea , increasing militarization of disputes and the absence as yet of regional institutions to bring coherence to the political economy of the area . So it is possible to argue that the Indian Ocean Region has an extraordinary opportunity to create something new in the global context and something historically uniquely beneficial to its people . Already , the ASEAN nations are on the ascent in the eastern side of the Indian Ocean . Three ASEAN members control the sea-lanes linking the Indian Ocean to the Pacific . Moreover , South Asia is also kindling underpinned by the growth of India , making it one of the fastest growing regions of the world . Since South Asia dominates the Indian Ocean and therefore this power transition in the Indian Ocean will be heavily influenced by South Asian developments . Consequently , I see the South Asia and ASEAN countries presenting an emerging opportunity that can bring with it benefits similar to those that came in the past to the Atlantic and Pacific basins . That is the challenge of the next decade or two . Our responses will shape our destiny in the 21st Century . The cooperation and coordination between ASEAN and SAARC including the Ramayana Connection have given us strong cultural affinities . We have similar Governmental institutions and commercial practices . The English language is a link language . We have a huge cohort of youth more regionally conscious than their parents . We also have a lot of work to do in brining these two groups together . More frank in-depth discussions ; Ongoing dialogue at the highest levels . We must not allow the internal disputes and differences of these multilateral organisations to impede the collective relationships between the two groups . It also challenges SAARC to reach a higher level of cooperation than what we have been able achieve so far . The opportunities are there - waiting to be exploited -- and with ingenuity we should be able to forge ahead . Ladies and Gentlemen The multipolar world we live in will be dominated by the competition among the five or six major Global powers during the next two decades . It may well be a protracted undetermined contest . The Indian Ocean will be a major theatre of competition . But the multiplicity of contestants gives us - in the region - a margin of flexibility , which we must utilize to determine the regional order . We must commit ourselves to an order based on the rights of all States to the freedom of navigation - the unimpeded lawful maritime commerce and over-flight . Our own futures and the futures of our extra regional partners are therefore heavily invested in how strategic security is managed in the region . Many countries remain dependent on energy supplies and traded goods that are carried across the region . Those who are geographically located in the region have a primary interest in the security of the Ocean , which is more often than not linked to their economies and the livelihoods of their people . Managing competition and strengthening cooperation would be essential given both these economic and strategic security factors , which have a direct impact on the future of this region . This is something we can not do alone . There are major power interests at play particularly those of China and Japan . Middle power interest such as those of the Republic of Korea ( ROK ) and Australia . Nor have the US and the European entity relinquished their interest in the region . As Fukuyama states , the West led by US will continue to project a tremendous amount of soft power globally due to strong institutions , continued stability and prosperity , high per capita GDP , dominance of the English language , technological lead , democratic traditions and culture . It is time for Indian Ocean countries especially Asian nations to take the lead in determining their own future . It is our belief that an Indian Ocean Order needs to be crafted with accepted rules and agreements that would guide interactions between states . This Order needs to be built on a consensual agreement and no singular State should dominate the system . The Indian Ocean Order would have the primary responsibility of upholding the freedom of navigation in the Indian Ocean , ensuring that shipping and air routes to East Asia and beyond are kept open , building closer economic cooperation amongst countries in the region , incorporating an Indian Ocean Development Fund for development of the region , and in particular , establishing a strong Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Management mechanism to deal with natural and manmade disasters . Today , IORA ( the Indian Ocean Rim Association ) the regional organization is not an effective force and has fallen short of expected levels of delivery with regard to regional cooperation . It is dormant when the strategic concepts concerning the Indian Ocean are being discussed . What is required as a start is a dialogue between SAARC and ASEAN leaders . Indonesia , an ASEAN member also the current Chair of the IORA , can initiate this dialogue -- spanning the IORA and all the interested major and middle powers . The final objective will be the agreement on an Indian Ocean Order . A settled arrangement guiding the interaction between states to ensure the safety and security of the Indian Ocean and its lanes of communications . An Order established by consensual agreement for a peaceful maritime security space and the strengthening of Maritime Security cooperation for mutual benefit . Such an Indian Ocean Order can only be consolidated by strong and meaningful regional cooperation . IORA 's present scope of meeting at official and ministerial level is insufficient for this purpose . This is where organizations such as the India Foundation have a role to play ; To present proposals for closer cooperation . Two of the areas requiring your efforts will be - firstly the establishment of an Indian Ocean Assembly . An Assembly which brings together inter alia Heads of State and Governments , leaders of political parties , officials , academics , intellectuals , non-governmental sectors , cultural and commercial leaders , media representatives , youth groups in order to recommend measures for consideration by the Indian Ocean region . Secondly a programme for cooperation in Education and Human Capital Development . This single measure will make a significant contribution to the rapid development of the region . Our task , then , is to begin building a political eco-system that is both prescriptive and preventive ; prescriptive in that it creates a structure out of the natural affinities of geography , culture and resources that already exist ; preventive in that it contains the inevitable local disputes and prevents them from disrupting or spilling over on to a common Indian Ocean agenda . I thank you once again for inviting me to share my vision for the Indian Ocean at this forum . Thank you . 01.09.2016Ends to justify means and cry of bogey menhttp : **37;1996;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 11:57 pmBy Tassie Seneviratne The article by Kishali Pinto Jayawardena , ( KPJ ) titled " The ends can not justify means in nation-building " , that appeared in the Sunday Times of August 21st 2016 , gives food for much thought . My mind first went to a conversation I was privileged to have with a friend who was connected to President J.R Jayewardene ( JRJ ) through marriage of his sisters to two of JRJ 's brothers . The conversation centered on my contention that President JRJ retaining a five sixth majority in Parliament elected on the old system through a referendum defeating by legal jugglery the purpose of proportional representation introduced by President JRJ himself and enshrined in the constitution , was wrong . My friend agreed with my contention . About a week or so later my friend communicated to me President JRJ 's response to my argument . He had put my line of thinking to President JRJ and JRJ 's response had been that he agrees it is wrong , and asked my friend whom he has in mind to take over the Presidency . My friend had stated that there was none other but JRJ . JRJ had responded telling him , in which case , to leave it to him to do it his way , because it was the only way he can remain in power . Mrs. Bandaranaike 's coalition government that became unpopular because of the queues , escalating prices , non- availability of essential items etc. that dotted the country , was the bogey . JRJ however failed to deliver because he was plagued by a terrorist war with the LTTE who believed it was the only means left to liberate the Tamils . Shakespeare in many of his works brings out the universally established fact that ' ends do n't justify the means ' . In Julius Caesar he portrays Brutus as noble in character but unpractical and pedantic . Although the nobility of Brutus is unquestioned , the other conspirators with whom he conspired were prompted by jealousy and vengeance . caption id= " attachment207494 " align= " alignright " width= " 200 " caption= " President J.R Jayewardene failed to deliver because he was plagued by a terrorist war with the LTTE " /caption It is now accepted that the murder of Caesar was utterly base and senseless -- base because it was mainly due to jealousy , and senseless because even Brutus who acted from pure motives was grasping at the impossible in his unpractical and futile attempt to restore the old order of Roman republicanism with other conspirators whom he himself described as base elements . Brutus should have realised at the outset that if the murder of Caesar was right , then the other deeds of violence and injustice which that murder necessarily entailed would be justifiable . The unstoppable wheel of crime and punishment caught up with Brutus too and he committed suicide leaving Rome in disarray . The bogey was dictatorship . Ironically , what followed was the ascendance of Emperor Augustus Caesar who built the Roman Empire . Christopher Marlowe in ' Dr. Faustus ' effectively brings out the eventuality of ends and means of a different kind - complementing each other . Dr Faustus is a professor of divinity at Wittenburg as well as a renowned physician , astronomer and scholar . Not satisfied with the limitations of human knowledge and power and driven by extensive pride , he begins to practice necromancy . He eventually makes a deal with Lucifer whereby he exchanges his soul for twenty four years of the devils service to him . During this period he enjoys a lot of power , fun and frolic . But at the end of the twenty four years he is frightened but helpless and the devils carry him away . His unbridled ambitions and the means to achieve them led him to an unfortunate end . Had Dr. Faustus lived today , he could have satiated his unbridled ambitions for power , fun and frolic by entering the Sri Lanka Parliament ! As stated by KPJ in her article , the bogey men of the ' Yahapalanaya ' band wagon are the Rajapaksas . The Rajapaksas are by no means a yard-stick to go by . That 's comparing with the devil incarnate . The ' Yahapalanaya ' government must be judged by its own promises -- the promises being , ending nepotism and corruption , reducing the cost of living , improving living standards of the people , independent police , independent judiciary , right to information and more . Some of these promises have been fulfilled . But nepotism , corruption and cost of living are soaring to giddy heights . Bribing opposition members of Parliament with cabinet portfolios and perks that go along with it , at the expense of the people , in return for supporting the government - some of them being corrupt members of parliament rejected by the people but taken in through the national list ; appointment of the former Governor of the Central Bank and his questionable deals ; are glaring instances of nepotism and corruption , while a myriad other matters of contention regarding economic and environmental concerns remain unresolved . We can see a repetition of Brutus ' character by a cultivated reputation for honesty , but engaging others to do the dirty work while remaining ' Mr. Clean ' . KPJ writes of another pertinent point raised by a conversationalist of hers -- " why should compromised groups which clearly have an agenda in riding along on the Yahapalanaya band wagon as it were , be allowed to drive these debates ? " Some of these compromised individuals were activists in " People power for good Governance . " They now hold lucrative positions in the Yahapalanaya Government and are singing for their supper , nepotism , corruption etc. notwithstanding . " People Power for Good Governance " will have to take stock of this Faustian bargaining -- " base means to mean-ends " and forge ahead sans opportunists , till people power becomes a reality . ( The writer is a retired Senior Superintendent of Police . ) Electoral reform -- MMP the only game in townhttp : **36;2035;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 11:51 pmBy Asoka Obeyesekere The fact that proposing a new electoral system is a responsibility placed upon the main twenty-one member steering committee of the Constitutional Assembly underscores its importance . The committee must address three key questions . Q1 . What principles must a new electoral system champion ? Q2 . Which electoral system can deliver these principles ? Q3 . What issues can an electoral system not solve ? I will show that the core principle that government is mandated to deliver is a return to localised constituency representation , coupled with the need for a proportionate result . The only way to suitably deliver this balance is through a dual ballot mixed member proportional ( MMP ) electoral system . I will conclude by emphasising that despite electoral reforms , many of its perceived cures will not be delivered through electoral reform alone . What principles must a new electoral system champion ? At the heart of the electoral reform debate is the pledge by President Maithripala Sirisena to introduce a " Mixed Electoral System that ensures representation of individual Members for Parliamentary Constituencies , with mechanisms for proportionality " . There are therefore two key principles underscoring this pledge . Firstly , having an individual MP improves the quality of representative and representation , as the candidate has a smaller area to campaign and represent , thereby ensuring lower campaign costs ( an assumption which I go on to show is often mistaken ) and greater local focus . Secondly , in reinforcing the principle of proportionality , the concept of fairness is preserved , as smaller parties , which are unlikely to win individual constituencies , can still garner support across broader geographic areas . Which electoral system can deliver these principles ? There is only one mixed electoral system that can provide constituency representation whilst guaranteeing a proportionate ( or at worst a very close to proportionate ) overall outcome . This system is called mixed member proportional ( MMP ) and every single MMP in national parliaments across the world have a dual vote . A dual vote MMP delivers the combination of constituency representation and proportionate results by allowing voters to exercise greater choice . In addition to voting for a candidate , a citizen also gets to vote for a party . Both choices need not conform with one another . You can therefore exercise your vote for a SLFP candidate in a constituency and then vote for the JVP as a party . The important point is that the final composition of parliament is determined by the latter party vote and separate list ( PR ) seats are used to top up any party which has n't achieved their vote share through constituency seats alone . What issues can an electoral system not solve ? There are two key areas beyond the scope of electoral reform . Firstly , underpinning the principle of constituency representation was a feeling that a new electoral system will reduce campaign costs . Many hark back to 1977 when Felix Dias Bandaranaike , a goliath of his time was defeated in Dompe by Sarathchandra Rajakaruna who conducted a localised door-to-door campaign . Whilst this opportunity could arise , in reality campaign costs could further spiral as individuals must win in their constituencies . Similar sums of money employed in past elections could therefore be used in more focussed efforts at a constituency level to increase the instances of vote buying . This issue needs the implementation of campaign finance regulations , not electoral reforms . Secondly , an electoral system can not reduce election violence . Whilst instances of inter-party violence will decrease with the absence of manape canvassing for ( preferential vote ) , the new fault line will be cross-party which could prove ever more combustible . Election violence is a law and order ailment and prescribing electoral reform is a misdiagnosis . Going forward Transparency International Sri Lanka has provided an electoral reform brief to all members of the steering committee on the need for a dual vote MMP electoral system . In the event that the committee does not provide a dual vote MMP , the committee members must justify how the pledge to deliver a balance of constituency representation with proportionate outcomes can be otherwise achieved . Similarly , the preamble of the proposals must be honest in acknowledging that electoral reform is not a panacea , but merely one of many steps required in addressing public concerns of declining political standards.7th anniversary celebration of the Samadhi Buddha Statue at New Jersey Buddhist Viharehttp : **34;2073;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 11:06 pmPRINCETON , NEW JERSEY -- The Seventh Anniversary of the Samadhi Statue at the New Jersey Buddhist Vihara &amp; Meditation Center in Princeton , New Jersey was celebrated on August 20 . This all day celebration was attended by many dignitaries including a Sri Lankan ambassador , President of a Japanese Buddhist temple in New York , Mayor Phillip Kramer , Deputy Mayor Ted Chase and Township Councilman Rajiv Prasad ( D-At Large ) . Also attending were Darrin Russo , the Democratic candidate for Somerset County , and Somerset County Freeholder Brian Levine . Councilman Prasad read a township proclamation honouring the event . The evening celebration was highlighted by a flower procession in the Meditation Trail through this wooded 10-acre property . There were also religious chantings in the afternoon and evening led by the Chief Incumbent -- Ven . Bhanthe Hungampola Sirirathana Nayaka Thero. , in a special handmade Teak gazebo ( " Mandappaya " ) donated by former ambassador Major General Shavendra Silva , flown in from Sri Lanka . The evening was capped by a celebratory dinner prepared by the center 's members . The statue which took two years to complete is reportedly the largest representation of the sitting Buddha in the Western hemi-sphere . It was constructed mostly by volunteers and a special monk flown from Sri Lanka according to Dr. Kottahachchi , Chairman of the Center.In just a few years , the center has gone from serving 70 Sri Lankan families to over 300 families of all nationalities . The Center is about to embark on a major $2.5 Million expansion which consists of a large building which includes a meditation Hall , Library and residence for the monks , parking and an expanded meditation trail with a Bridge over a meandering stream . This expansion was necessitated by the growing interest in the Center enhanced by the completion of the Statue in 2009.8 Sri Lankans receive Chevening scholshttp : **34;2109;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 11:04 pmThe United Kingdom has increased the number of Chevening scholarships for Sri Lanka , for the second consecutive year . The increase in awards was announced at a reception hosted at the British High Commissioner 's Residence on September 1 , where eight Sri Lankan scholars were presented with their certificates . This year 's scholars will travel to the UK on fully funded scholarships to read for one year Masters courses in Politics , Environmental Design and Engineering , Finance , International Business and Management , Law , Development and Globalisation , and Gender Studies . The application window for the 2017/2018 academic cycle is now open for talented young Sri Lankan graduates who wish to pursue Masters courses at universities in the UK . More details at http : **25;2145;TOOLONG Outreach clinics for eldershttp : **34;2172;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 10:53 pmThe Geriatric Medical Unit of the Colombo South Teaching Hospital will hold Community Outreach Clinics for elders in Dehiwala and Piliyandala . They hope to give their caregivers advice , do an initial geriatric screening , check vision and also do basic Physiotherapy for patients with Musculoskeletal Disease . The first clinic was held yesterday in Piliyandala and the next will be held on October 1 for Dehiwala from 8 a.m. -- 12 noon . The Geriatric clinic is now held every Tuesday from 2 -- 4 p.m. in the Colombo South Teaching Hospitals . As there was a need to support the aged in the community , it was decided to conduct Geriatric clinics in Dehiwala and Piliyandala with the help of the Social Service Officers in line with International Elders Day which falls on October 1 . Community services get helping handhttp : **36;2208;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 10:52 pmCommunity services at Kalipulla watte , Dematagoda were revived under the auspices of the Dematagoda Youth Front and the National Youth Services Council at the request of Provincial Council member and Pragna Pradeepa founder Jayantha de Silva , who is seen in the picture lighting the oil lamp on arrival at the ceremony . Lanka safe and scenic for Miss Intercontinental 2016 : Organisershttp : **30;2246;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 10:46 pmBy Kaveesha Fernando " Besides the beautiful landscapes and beaches that Sri Lanka has to offer , we are also looking for security . This is why we decided to hold Miss Intercontinental in Sri Lanka because it 's a safe place and we feel very secure here , " said CEO of the Miss Intercontinental Organisation Detlef Tursies . For Sri Lankans who have suffered the effects of a 30-year long war , hearing Sri Lanka declared as a safe place to hold a major beauty pageant is heartening . Miss Intercontinental 2016 will be held in Sri Lanka and the organisers of the pageant are excited to be in Sri Lanka for the show . caption id= " attachment207403 " align= " alignright " width= " 280 " caption= " Reigning Miss Intercontinental Valentina Rasulova . Pix by Anuradha Bandara " /caption The Miss Intercontinental beauty pageant began in 1971 . Initially held as a teen beauty contest , it became an annual evetn following peak viewership which the show attracted at its debut in Oranjestad , Aruba . The pageant is contested by the title holders of over 60 countries in their bid to win the crown . caption id= " attachment207404 " align= " alignleft " width= " 240 " caption= " CEO of the Miss Intercontinental Organisation Detlef Tursies " /caption At a news conference held on Thursday to announce the event , Mr. Tursies said following a discussion with their Sri Lankan partners , this year there will be a new segment . They will add fairy tales alongside dances from Sri Lanka . Vice President of the John Keells Group and head of brand marketing Cinnamon Hotels Dileep Mudadeniya explained what the event would mean for Sri Lanka . " The idea is to take this event positively outside Sri Lanka and create vibes so that people want to come and visit Sri Lanka " he said . caption id= " attachment207405 " align= " alignleft " width= " 240 " caption= " Vice President of the John Keells Group and head of brand marketing Cinnamon Hotels Dileep Mudadeniya " /caption Speaking to the Sunday Times about how the pageant has changed her life , the reigning Miss Intercontinental Valentina Rasulova says " Before , people would hear my name and say ' who is Valentina Rasulova ? ' . Now it 's Miss Intercontinental Valentina Rasulova . People treat you differently " . Her advice for contestants aspiring for the crown is threefold -- they should know what sets them apart from the other contestants , they should have ' inner beauty ' which she defines as being kind and helping others and they should be happy . She feels that being happy is very important because there 's a difference between women who just strike a pose and those who smile because they 're genuinely happy . The Miss Intercontinental pageant will be held on October 16 . The crown The crown worn by Miss Intercontinental 2015 ValentinaRasulova at the official event declaration is called ' Oriental Holy Water ' and is worth over USD 360,000 . Commemorating the 150th anniversary of the Sri Lanka Policehttp : **34;2278;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 10:22 pm <p> Police vs . Community <p> Complex dynamics in civilian policing <p> By Asoka Wijetilleka In every civilized society , a police system exists for the common good of the entire community . World over , the primary duty of any police force is the prevention and the detection of crime and criminal law enforcement with the view to apprehending perpetrators of crime and collecting evidence against them enabling them to be prosecuted in courts of law and to maintain public tranquility . Of course , based on the nature of the structure of the State and its organs and the system of law and justice , the structure and the powers and functions of the police vary from country to country . Due to 130 years of British colonial rule , Sri Lanka inherited a police system similar to it 's former colonial rulers- the United Kingdom . caption id= " attachment207388 " align= " alignright " width= " 400 " caption= " Traffic management : The police spend a great deal of time and resources but most tasks are carried out by motorists who have to abide by road rules . " /caption In many countries including in Sri Lanka , the laws and statutes specify the functions of the police force , the obligation for it to be an Institution for crime prevention and to function in this capacity . However , it meets with misunderstanding and often veiled opposition when it seeks to assert its preventive and social role . This attitude which is widespread among the public , must be changed . The police essentially needs to secure the willing cooperation of the public in voluntary observance of the rules of law . Law and order is the basic foundation of any civilized society . The most fundamental issue for the police is dealing with the community . Over the passage of time the tasks of the police in serving the community have become more complex and extensive . The police has to accomplish the impossible and therefore has to develop an operating mode that is acceptable to most of the people most of the time . The role of the police is vastly different to the approaches of other state apparatus with a totally divergent " culture " and an arduous 24 x 7 duty to perform , which needs to be understood by society . The fundamental duty of the police is to serve mankind ; to safeguard lives and property ; to protect the innocent against deception , the weak against oppression or intimidation , and the peaceful against violence and disorder , and to respect the constitutional rights of all people to liberty , equality and justice . Nevertheless , the community most of the time seem to be unaware that they expect the police to perform an arduous and a difficult task . Moreover , they are often a scapegoat for the community 's social and moral default . The police in Sri Lanka are primarily responsible for the maintenance of law and order , prevention of the commission of crime , detection of crime , investigation of crime with the view to identifying and aprehending suspects , collecting evidence and thereby facilitating their prosecution in courts of law . When excercising this primary duty the police is often criticized for its coercive role , while on the other , its attempts at purely preventive and social work are ill-received . " That 's not its job " is often heard with allusion to the alleged incompatibility between its coercive functions and its preventive aspirations . Due to serious security threats faced by the country as a result of separatist terrorism prepetrated by the LTTE up till mid 2009 , which propagated establishing a mono-ethnic , mono-political separate sovereign State in the Northern and Estern Provinces of Sri Lanka , the Sri Lanka Police was compelled to assume additional responsibilities for the protection of the State , sovereignty , its national leaders , the civilian population and property . In this regard , the Sri Lanka Police was required to perform uncoventional duties similar to those performed by the security forces . The deployment of police presonnel to perform national security functions did lead to virtually one half of the entire 85,000 odd police force being deployed either in the Northern or Eastern Provinces referred to as ' operational areas ' . As a result , the number of police personnel available to perform conventional police duties such as patrolling for the purpose of preventing the commission of crime , early detection of crime and receiving intelligence and conducting criminal investigations , became far less than the actual number required in carrying out such duties and responsibilities effectively . Be it either for the former or the latter reason , the police alone can not solve the problem of crime or order . The police certainly could do better with the active participation of the community . The civic community must support compliance with the rule of law , instead of looking to the police as merely an institution responsible for controlling criminality , public tranquility and/or law and order . An excellent case in point is the last general election . The public well understood the importance of good behaviour and obedience to law and order , except in a few isolated negligible number of incidents . This perceptive approach of the public made the role of the police relatively uncomplicated in discharging their duties in the enforcement of law and order with a positive note for the conduct of a fair and a peaceful election . This undoubtedly enhanced the public trust towards the police . Going by this illustration , of the police as the enforcing arm of the law , it is needless to say that the public adherence to discipline and observance to the rule of law undoubtedly rest as pre-requisites , they being the main stake holders to achieve this objective . This is the most important fabric and foundation , essentially needed if we are to progress as a nation . C. Wright Mills in his book " Sociological imagination " has referred to the social problems quite correctly as a threat to values . The high level of literacy , social mobility and the long history of excercing the adults franchise can not be single handedly considered influencing forces to transform behavioural patterns of individuals . Efforts to prevent crime must therefore include the teaching of conventional values . In this context , it is also neccessary to find ways to strengthen individual bonds to society , commitment to the conventional order and participation in conventional activities . The best way is to strenghten the Institutions that socialise people and continue to regulate their behaviour throughout life- the family , the school and the work place and address the individuals as part of the society and teach the necessary values for social well-being . In this backdrop , personal or inner controls are as important as social or external controls in keeping people from committing crimes and for the observance of the rule of law . Thus , it would be seen that the solution to control crime is not only in the hands of the police . It has a combination of multiple factors , to put it very simply , public behaviour , their perception ; attitudes ; more importantly obedience to law , respect for authority , upholding values , investment in customs and traditions -- they all too play a major role - a role that will certainly be supportive in the maintenance of law and order by the police . Therefore , civil society essentially plays a pivotal role and needs to be a driving force to support the police in the flow of information to curb crime or could group together to support crime prevention mechanisms and other violations , adversly affecting the well-being of the community and respect and observe the rules of law . In the light of what is said , the conception of its vocation in the field of crime prevention must , at the outset , be shared by all those who are capable of helping the police either through moral influence in the country or through their professional relations with the police such as judges , sociologists , criminologists , social workers , probation officers , and above all by peace loving citizens . It must be regarded with no separation that policing in a democratic society are public political functions . These processes emanates from the three divisions of the government namely , the executive , legislature and judiciary . All of this is subjected to civilian oversight , with the community finally responsible for all the processes dealing with crime and criminals . What the police are , what they do , how they do , how well they fulfill the expectations , how professional they are and what improvements they need are political questions , inevitably needing to be viewed as pre-requisites for enhancement and enforcement of the laws . On the other hand , reinforcements of informal controls on individual behaviour are the most vital way to reduce the incidence of crime . Compliance with most laws does not depend upon the likelihood of them being enforced , but upon the acceptance of informal norms and a concern for the feeling of others . The participation of all social institutions towards the maintenance of peace and public order is a must and they could be partners in systematic crime preventive action through more effective police community cooperation , which is a seriously lack in our country . If you look back , history reveals that crime has been analyzed in the last centrury from every aspect ; biological , theological , sociological , psychological and economical . Evolution theory has taught us that we evolved from an animal state where killing and being killed was part of nature 's design . Milions of years have passed and we have shed more of our instinct . Our minds are however , still pre-occupied with the most predatory instincts and society is pervaded by overt and covert forms of violence generating a general climate of irrationality . No police system in this world has ever succeeded by functioning in isolation . No police force in the world has been able to effectively deal with crime and other law and order problems without the active support of the community it serves . Therefore , as leaders of the civil society , as conscientious community and social leaders , as responsible citizens of Sri Lanka , all should help the police in the discharge of its duties and functions . Given this orientation , crime and disorder , are major concerns to be dealt with by the police and could be termed " community malignancies " that would imperil the quality of living and morality to a very harmful extent . It is in this theoretical matrix the community 's role and responsibility in crime prevention has to be viewed decisively . Unlike in totalitarian systems , in a democratic society , the police function depends to a considerable degree on self-policing by every citizen . This dictum comes into play as a pivotal role as law observance is the most salient part of law enforcement . Traffic management is a case in point . The police spend a great deal of time and resources doing it , but most of the actions ( tasks ) are carried out by motorists who has to abide by the road rules . Hence , the order can not only be secured only through fear of punishment and the public too have an important role to play to obey the " rules of law " . Ironically with the social changes , the approach of the police in dealing with law and order has to be generally one of professional development , including elevation of recruitment standards , extensive training covering a wide range of subjects including police community relations , strengthening against submissions to the demands of politicians and expansion of specialized training , resources to some degree and gradual emergence of police community relations . The purposes of these areas and developments in the recent past , has been to strengthen implementation of equal protection under the law for all citizens , to foster and improve communication and mutual understanding between the police and the community and to enhance police education and training especially to deal in social and behavioural attitudes to meet the ever changing challenges , vastly different to the conditions of yesteryear . In this backdrop , the social behaviour of people must be also well understood . The current social behaviour is that many people becoming preoccupied with their own personal issues that they pay little attention to larger community problems . This situation has distanced the people from supporting the police by way of providing true and genuine information and responsiveness to curb crime and for productive enforcement action . Further , as in the past , large numbers of today 's youth do not submit to traditional behaviour controls , in or out of schools . Problems of discipline loom large in and around class rooms . School behaviour , to say the least , especially at the upper levels , is often marginally , criminal , often violent , as many witness during big matches and the newly emerged ' demonstration culture ' , the situation turning dangerous and frightening and even to the extent of students man handling the teachers . Therefore , obviously the maintenance of order continues to be important in a school setting . The fact is that if anger or hostility is accompanied by physical attack upon school staff , fellow students or property , as witnessed in school demonstrations in recent times , the optimum atmosphere for teaching or learning is bound to rapidly deteriorate . Teachings at school levels and homes and improving the quality of instructions and monitoring the activities and behaviour of students will improve the discipline and order to make children good citizens . Therefore , mutual assistance among the various components of society will certainly encourage the police to become more functional . The best solution is to have only one urge and that should always be allowed to exist ; the urge to live in peace . In this context not only the police but the people too have a vital role to play . The community must understand that police needs the community in their role and such participation is equally beneficial to all segments of the community . Public interest in the police community relationship at times surmounts adversely when civic peace and order are threatened by dissident groups in street demonstrations , confrontations and the like . Unfortunately such treacherous actions have now become very common compared to the past . Often these events spill over into violence and police are quickly accused of being " villains " , forgetting the fact they are guardians of the law . Today , people are used to a culture of taking to streets , blocking roads , thus inconveniencing the peace loving public , to bring-forth their grievances in the form of protests seeking the intervention of the authorities to resolve their problems . Such situations have since of late been a common site with no single day passing by without a demonstration taking place . The publicity drawn on such events for public consumption has also led to the replication of occurrences in the guise of democracy , little realizing the ill effects to the community in particular and public tranquility in general . Citizens must understand that the prevention of violent situations is not the responsibility of the police alone . A just social order for all is the ultimate answer and reaching this goal is a vital responsibility also in the hands of the community . One of the most enduring policing tenets attributed to Sir Robert Peel -- the 19th Century British Home Secretary , who played a key role in the establishment of the Metropolitan Police Act is the adage " The police are the people and the people are the police " . The truth of the saying could be made real only when the community play a hands-on role making their neighbourhood safe and observe the rules of law . The citizens essentially need to understand the core values of the society in which they live and collaborate with the Police to uphold and maintain law and order . It is unlikely that many instances of police action have ever been completely satisfactory to everyone concerned ; for no matter how brilliant or efficient they may be , it is at most times not viewed with enthusiasm by the thwarted or apprehended offender or his or her family , friends and/or interest groups . Constructive critism must come by the way to improve the efficiency of the police but cetainly not in the way of destructive criticism to incapacitate and/or ridicul its image . Therefore , the community needs to alter this adversarial element in the relationship with the police , to understand that in all their functions , the police carry out a multifaceted responsibility assigned to them by the community they serve . Public participation to assist the police in their duties must be understood as a civic right of the community and not to enable the police to win popularity contests . Reduction of crime through community involvement , reduction of fear of crime , solicitation of information from the public , involvement of community in police functions and improvement of the image of the police force are some of the key factors that require to be listed . The police needs the public in their role as a supportive body . The public has frequently taken the position of not wanting to get involved and then point the finger of blame at the police for rising crime . This is not to say that the police can simply point the finger of blame back at the public . What it means is that the responsibility of an efficient police force is two-way ; it needs public support and participation to deter offenders working against society and on the other hand the police needs to improve their professionalism to serve the public . Public support , community-wide interest and individual participation , therefore are all important to be enlisted . In other words the information that allows the police to exert formal control must be supported by the people . However , information must be truthful and should not be brought-forth due to other dubious reasons , such as personal enemity , professional and personal jealousy , resentment and intervention of interest groups to fabricate evidence . Such irresponsible transgressions will only divert the attention of the police on a wrong trail , making the end result pessimistic and negative . Citizens must be the ones who are the major reporters of crime , witnesses of crime and accusers of wrong doers-they are the information sources for police to act swiftly for the benefit of the community at large . The police requires community based support in crime prevention and to enforce the rule of law . This approach of the public will exemplify the problem solving proximity to police and community relations , in which citizens could function as the eyes and ears of the police . The public should not remain passive , only to protect individual interest . Public support is few and far between . Although one can observe a descending trend in civic engagement in all continents across the globe , it is amply clear that at least a minimum level of civic participation is essential to sustain effective implementation of the rule of law . The civic consciousness undisputably still holds great value and correspondingly needs citizen mobilization as a driving force , if we are to translate the enforcement of law and order . Citizen involvement in crime prevention and control can not be considered an unrealistic expectation in today 's context ; many citizens are apathetic and prefer that police alone be responsible for maintaining law and order . Citizens must , therefore , not forget the fact that all policing is community policing and the job of the police will be easy if the citizens obey the rules of law . Abraham Maslow has said that " when one 's only tool is a hammer , every problem looks like a nail " . The public participation in assisting the police is twofold : to be disciplined and to cooperate with the police in the prevention of crime and the preservation of public tranquility . The creation of this kind of community participation requires the collaborative effort by all social agencies as a complementary option to conventional law enforcement . The impetus of building police-public partnership will certainly bring-forth success in civilian policing for the wellbeing of the community and is bound to ameliorate the maintenance of law and order to enhance the quality of life . ( The writer was a Senior Deputy Inspector General of Police and Secretary - General of the International Police Association . ) A Foreign Minister who remained embedded in the UN landscapehttp : **31;2314;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 10:07 pmUNITED NATIONS -- When Foreign Minister ACS Hameed came under attack for staying in five-star luxury hotels during the UN General Assembly sessions in New York , he fired back at the Opposition MP in Parliament with a rejoinder dripping with sarcasm : " Where do you want me to stay when I travel overseas ? " , he asked . " in thosai boutiques ? " To put it in perspective , that would be like rooming at the Ambal Caf ? in Hulftsdorf or Saraswathie Lodge in Bambalapitya . Or perhaps Saravanaa Bhavan in New York 's Lexington Avenue . Hameed routinely pitched his tent either at New York 's Hyatt Regency , the Intercontinental Barclay , the Waldorf Astoria or the Palace Hotel -- and he did it in style , like scores of other high-flying Foreign Ministers arriving for the UN sessions , come September . A globe-trotter of near-biblical proportions , he was probably in Colombo only on transit , in between catching overseas flights . Hameed , whose 17th death anniversary was commemorated September 3 , was an unforgettable character in his heyday -- enjoying every single moment of his tenure as Foreign Minister . As a former Sri Lankan Ambassador , who worked closely with Hameed , told me : " Hameed was not a great reader but had an intuitive knowledge of international affairs , rather like Mrs.Sirimavo Bandaranaike " . With Sri Lanka holding the chairmanship of the Non-Aligned Movement ( NAM ) during 1976-1979 , Hameed was constantly called upon to preside over some of the thorniest international issues of the 1970s : which of the two Cambodian factions had the rightful claim to the seat at the UN ( the General Assembly session that day was held up for over four hours as he negotiated behind closed doors trying to resolve the dispute with backing from the UN 's Legal Adviser ) ? Was it Kampuchea under the Khmer Rouge regime ( 1975-1979 ) ? And should Egypt , which had signed the Camp David peace agreement with Israel in 1978 , be driven out of NAM ? There was also sharp divisions in NAM over the disputed territory of Western Sahara in the Maghreb region of North Africa and the split over the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan ( 1979-1989 ) . As he sat in judgement , Hameed 's closest advisers during the General Assembly sessions included two career diplomats , Jayantha Dhanapala and Nihal Rodrigo , along with Ernest Corea , a former editor of the Daily News and later Sri Lanka 's High Commissioner to Canada and Ambassador to the United States . Ernest was a longstanding friend , having known Hameed long before he became Foreign Minister , and was the only Sri Lankan Ambassador who addressed him by his first name : Shahul , throwing protocol to the winds . As Ernest told me last week : " Shahul faced many challenges in his life -- one of them was a lack of physical height -- but his biggest challenge was managing the Foreign Affairs portfolio for the Sri Lanka government . " " To the best of my recollection , he was the first Foreign Minister to hold that portfolio without the direct involvement of the Prime Minister's/President 's office " . Previously , Defence and External Affairs were hitched together . When President Jayewardene unhitched them , there was a fairly widespread perception , particularly in Colombo 's foreign policy establishment , that the whole business of foreign affairs was being downgraded . " Shahul proved them wrong " , said Ernest who lives in retirement in Virginia . With President Jayewardena never setting foot at the UN -- a self-imposed , unexplained boycott of the world body-- Hameed was in all his political glory as he faithfully made his annual pilgrimage to the General Assembly sessions . As part of the landscape in the UN Delegate 's Lounge , Hameed was seen holding court , even as he kept chomping at his cigar , probably the best from Cuba , which he picked up in Havana during his frequent trips to the Cuban capital before Sri Lanka handed over the NAM chairmanship to Fidel Castro in 1979 . At home , Hameed had a tough task steering the NAM ship among sceptics like Gamini Dissanayake and Lalith Athulathmudali , and of course , JRJ himself . Still , Hameed showed remarkable patience and persistence . Perhaps his most joyous moment as Foreign Minister was when JRJ told Fidel Castro at the Havana summit that it was Hameed who enabled Sri Lanka to hand over NAM 's leadership to Cuba " untarnished and unaltered , " said Ernest who was in Havana for the handing over ceremony . This put to rest the speculation even within his own party that his days as Foreign Minister would be short . " The fact is that JRJ realized as few others did that Shahul had an intuitive feel for international relations . Those who had the privilege of working with him understood this . He had his faults . Who does n't ? , " said Ernest . " I am not going to be counted among his critics who might want to let fly at him now that he is no longer with us . Rather , I would like to remind those of us who worked with him and others who observed him at work that he was outstanding in several areas " . First he was tri-lingual in English , Sinhala and Tamil . This gave him a remarkable reputation among his peers . Second , he had a phenomenal memory and could at precisely the correct moment during a drafting session pull out from the recesses of his mind a word , a phrase or other salient reference that added substance and depth to a public policy statement . He was also insistent , as some of his colleagues were not , that a solid Sri Lanka/India relationship was an essential component of foreign policy , said Ernest . " One more point needs to be stressed and this is very personal . He was an excellent extempore speaker . He could intervene in a debate to deal with a complex issue for which most of us were unprepared as if he was saying to himself : " Here 's that loose ball I was waiting for . " Armed with self-deprecating humour , Hameed funded the publication of a collection of cartoons that lampooned him . He particularly relished a cartoon which showed him sitting before a huge globe with the caption : " Let me see - what are the countries I have still not visited . " An equally lovable cartoon in November 1978 showed a world-weary Hameed arriving at the Katunayake airport and innocently asking a passer-by : " My dear man , could you show me the way to Harispattuwa ? , " his electorate in his hometown of Akurana . His initials ACS were spelled out as " All Countries Seen . " The cartoons were sketches from some of Sri Lanka 's celebrated artistes of the 1970s , including W.R.Wijesoma , JiffreyYoonoos , Mark Gerreyn and Amita Abayesekera . " One of the greatest gifts is the ability to laugh at oneself , " said Wijesoma in an introduction to the book titled " Mr Foreign Minister " , " Mr Hameed is doing just that , and I believe he is having the last laugh . " Oscar Wilde once made the distinction between two forms of torture : the rack and the Press . Ask any politician , said Hameed , and he would opt for the grisly torture chamber over the editorial offices and the news desks in Colombo . Hameed hailed from Akuruna and his electorate was Harispattuwa : a majority Sinhala Buddhist electorate . And to have been elected over a very long period was a tribute to Hameed 's political relationship among his voters . One of Hameed 's memorable moments was when an Eelam activist/lawyer from London , Krishna Vaikunthavasan , surreptitiously gate-crashed into the UN , took his place in the speakers roster , and tried to upstage Hameed by walking onto the podium of the General Assembly and unleashing a diatribe against the government accusing it of genocide . When the president of the Assembly realized he had an interloper on his hands , he cut off the mike within minutes and summoned security guards to bodily eject the intruder from the hall . And as Hameed walked up to the podium , there was pin drop silence in the Assembly Hall . But the unflappable Hameed , unprompted by any of his delegates , produced a riveting punchline : " I want to thank the previous speaker for keeping his speech short , " he said , as the Assembly , known to tolerate longwinded and boring speeches , broke into peals of laughter . The writer can be contacted at **28;2347;TOOLONG hands over first major donationhttp : **32;2377;TOOLONG ... August 2016 @ 7:11 pmGive2Lanka ( Gte ) handed over its first major donation , a cheque for Rs. 1.5 Million to Berendina at a function held at Colombo Golf Club recently with Vice President of GiveIndia Vikas Puthran as the Chief Guest . caption id= " attachment206404 " align= " alignright " width= " 400 " caption= " Dulan de Silva ( right ) is seen handing over the cash donation to Anura Athapattu ( current Chairman of Berendina Group ) . " /caption This donation will enable Berendina to increase its scholarship programme ( for education/ career counselling/higher education/employment linkages ) to 2 , 250 deserving children . Give2Lanka has also made a few contributions to helping Sasanka , the Royal College student who has been in a coma for the past three years . Currently , Give2Lanka covers more than nine worthy causes . Give2Lanka runs a crowd funding platform to provide a lifeline for deserving causes addressed by trusted local NGOs . Sri Lanka 's recent classification as a middle income country has caused the suspension of over nine key international funding channels including NORAD , SDC , Novib , Helvetas , Dutch Embassy , and DFID . Give2Lanka is led by Dulan de Silva , former Executive Chairman of the Berendina Group and ably supported by four private sector Company Directors and two development professionals on the board of directors.The RAW Truth in Sri Lankahttp : **35;2411;TOOLONG ... August 2016 @ 10:16 pmIn 1991 , she was the last Indian journalist to interview Rajiv Gandhi and a few metres away from him when a female LTTE suicide bomber blew herself up and killed the former Indian Prime Minister . Twenty-five years later , Neena Gopal , the then young journalist , returns to the picture to tell a bigger story in her new book " The Assassination of Rajiv Gandhi " , unearthing , among other matters , the role India 's intelligence arm , the Research and Analysis Wing , played in Sri Lanka 's ethnic conflict that dragged on for three decades . The Sunday Times today carries extracts from the book . caption id= " attachment205471 " align= " alignright " width= " 400 " caption= " Neena Gopal : A journalist for thirty-seven years , Neena Gopal began her career in a Bangalore that was the hotbed of post-Emergency politics . Moving to the UAE in the 1980s , she worked for the Dubai-based daily Gulf News where , as Foreign Editor , she travelled in the Middle East during and after Operation Desert Storm , the first Gulf War in 1990 , covering war-torn Iraq and its neighbours through the Second Gulf War in 2003 . Neena 's other news-hunting ground has been India and its immediate neighbourhood , both as a foreign affairs journalist and as a close observer of the life and times of many leaders in India , Pakistan , Sri Lanka and Afghanistan . She currently edits the Bangalore edition of the Deccan Chronicle . " /caption The RAW Truth : The order to kill ' Rajiv Gandhi avarunde mandalai addipodalam . ' ' Dump pannidungo . ' Blow Rajiv Gandhi 's head off . Eliminate him . ' Maranai vechidungo . ' Kill him . Of the hundreds of intercepts between the thirty-eight- odd Tamil insurgent camps in the Nilgiris in India and their cohorts in Jaffna , Sri Lanka , almost every single one centred on arms shipments and gunrunning between Vedaranyam and Point Pedro , barely 18 kilometres from coast to coast . But no intercept would be as chilling as the kill order that came through in short bursts of VHS communication on a frequency that the LTTE favoured , that April day in 1990 . When it was intercepted , it set off alarm bells among Tamil insurgents ranged against the Tigers , their numbers already worn thin by the LTTE 's targeting of their cadres and top leadership . The intercept , in Old Tamil interspersed with English used by the Jaffna Tamils -- and largely incomprehensible to Indian Tamils -- only added to the confusion that hung over the all too brief radio message . ' Dump ' . That particular term came into use when the LTTE began to ruthlessly eliminate Tamil civilians who resisted their fiat and ' dumped ' them in pits across Jaffna . It was another way of saying ' kill ' . But the difference this time was that the order was not to eliminate one of their own . The target was the former Indian prime minister , the leader of another country . When PLOTE leader Siddharthan Dharmalingam first heard it , he was so alarmed , he immediately tipped off the IPKF 's counter-intelligence head in Sri Lanka , Col Hariharan . A native Tamil speaker with an inside track into the Lankan Tamil narrative , Col Hariharan was greatly helped in his task , he says , by having an aunt who was married to a Jaffna native . It was Col Hariharan , the head of Counter Intelligence ( COIN ) , and one of a handful of Indian operatives with his ear to the ground and an understanding of the Tigers ' mindset , who recognized its true import . But it did n't fly . Whether it was n't specific enough or clear enough to warrant immediate action , or was simply not taken seriously by the intelligence mandarins to whom the information was passed on , is not known . Either way , India 's intelligence agents were clearly unequal to the task of reading the threat for what it was -- a death sentence passed by the LTTE , an insurgent group nurtured by India , on India 's former premier . ' Even when Rajiv Gandhi was the Prime Minister , the R&amp;AW had drawn attention to the likelihood of a threat to his security from the Sri Lankan Tamil extremist organizations . It repeated this warning after he became the Leader of the Opposition , ' says B. Raman , head of RAW during 1988 -- 94 , in his eye-popping memoir , The Kaoboys of R&amp;AW.1 ' These warnings did not receive the attention they deserved because they were based on assessments and not on specific intelligence , ' he writes . Except , this particular intercept was as specific as it could get . Prabhakaran 's ' handler ' when the LTTE leader was in India , Chandran , is pushing eighty-five , but remembers the intercept as clearly as though it were yesterday . He recounts how everyone misread the signals -- not just his men , but also agents from the IB who were tasked with monitoring the threat posed by Lankan Tamils residing in India , who had to trawl through hundreds of messages that went back and forth . Chandran , additional secretary in the Cabinet Secretariat and in charge of RAW in Sri Lanka , was sidelined once the Rajiv Gandhi government fell , and his years of cultivating the Tamil militants came to nought . ' By that time , the government had changed . Nobody wanted to hear what we had to say anyway . And I had been shunted out , ' he said . ' The IB and RAW did n't agree on much . If we had read the signals right , if we understood what was going on in Prabhakaran 's mind , who knows , we could have prevented this . It was our fault , we made a huge error of judgement . We misread Prabhakaran . We never believed he would turn against us in this manner . We should have seen it coming . We did n't . We failed Rajiv Gandhi , we failed to save his life , ' he said , emotional and close to tears as he spoke to me from his office in New Delhi . Twenty-five years later , neither Siddharthan nor Col Hariharan remembers more than this particular part of the intercept . But both say that if it had been taken on board , and acted on with the seriousness that such a tipoff deserved , history would have taken a different course . caption id= " attachment205473 " align= " alignright " width= " 200 " caption= " Colonel Hariharan " /caption It was brought to the notice of Siddharthan ( now a Tamil National Alliance MP in the newly elected Sri Lankan Parliament ) by an alert Jaffna Tamil in his employ who monitored radio communications between Tamils on the Indian mainland and Jaffna . The PLOTE leader , in turn , alerted Col Hariharan who served in Sri Lanka from 3 August 1987 to June -- July 1990 and was reaching the end of his tenure . At the time , the LTTE was the predominant force in the RAW-run training camps in India . Col Hariharan who also had a small army of Jaffna Tamils keeping an eye on the LTTE for him , says he too was taken aback when he was given the cassette to listen to and , from what his codebreakers told him , was alarmed enough to warn India 's IB that a plot was afoot to eliminate Rajiv Gandhi . This was a full year before the suicide bomb blast claimed the former prime minister 's life . ' It was the first time we heard any mention of Prabhakaran taking vengeance against Rajiv Gandhi , ' Siddharthan said , quickly correcting himself after having first used the word ' revenge ' . But the warning -- albeit tenuous and imprecise -- instead of being investigated , was laughed out of court ; it was simply set aside and forgotten . It was n't the only warning that was n't fully investigated . In his book , Raman talks of another alert , this time from German intelligence , about the repeated visits of a Sri Lankan Tamil explosives expert and an LTTE sympathizer to Madras . But it was not sufficiently probed by the IB . Instead , it ignored the warning on the grounds that the Lankan Tamil was n't an explosives expert , and remained curiously blind to the question of what the man was doing in Madras in the first place . In 1990 , LTTE had the upper hand . PLOTE 's founder Maheswaran had co-founded the LTTE with Prabhakaran in 1976 . But by 1982 , the two had fallen out and almost killed each other in a public shoot-out in Madras . Maheswaran went on to found PLOTE but was murdered in broad daylight on a Colombo street in 1989 . PLOTE made every effort to stay one step ahead of the main person of interest at the time -- their main enemy , ' Baby ' Subramaniam , the LTTE commander operating out of Tamil Nadu . Subramaniam was the LTTE 's point person to eliminate all challenges to Prabhakaran . ' Subramaniam was the darling of the Tamil Nadu politicians and knew exactly how to keep RAW and everyone happy while doing exactly what Prabhakaran wanted him to do , ' Siddharthan tells me . The intercept may have been to Subramaniam from someone speaking on Prabhakaran 's behalf . Together with other LTTE leaders , like the intelligence chief Pottu Amman and the deputy head of the women 's wing , Akila , Subramaniam was closely involved with the planning and execution of the plot to kill Rajiv Gandhi . Even though the Indian Army was making tracks for home , Prabhakaran was relentlessly whipping up anger against the IPKF , blaming them for excesses against civilians . This single burst of chatter should have alerted the then V.P Singh government and , subsequently , the Chandrashekhar government to restore the Z security that Rajiv Gandhi used to have before he lost the prime ministership . Opposition leader or not , he was on the hit list of the Khalistanis and the Sikhs , and warranted more than the negligible cover he had been provided.The Jaffna Conspiracyhttp : **30;2448;TOOLONG ... August 2016 @ 10:11 pmIn the dense jungles of north-eastern Sri Lanka , across the Palk Strait , Prabhakaran nursed a grudge against Rajiv Gandhi which would become a full-scale obsession . It was here , deep in the forests of the Wanni , that the plot to kill the former Indian prime minister was first hatched . caption id= " attachment205467 " align= " alignright " width= " 200 " caption= " Seconds before Rajiv Gandhi was killed in the Sriperumpudur suicide blast . Inset : the Female LTTE killer Dhanu " /caption As the LTTE chief , solitary and furtive , moved like a hunted animal under the cover of darkness from one hideout to another , night after night , from Jaffna and Kankesanthurai to Vadamarachchi , and Vavuniya and back , the depth of his fury at Rajiv Gandhi 's perceived perfidy was an open secret . That is , it was a secret to everyone but the Indians . Through the IPKF deployment in the north-east , he played a game of cat and mouse with Delhi . Knowing he would be easy prey if he broke cover , he rarely slept in the same bed twice , neither took nor made any telephone calls , trusting no one , staying one step ahead of both Colombo and Delhi . It was a habit that stayed with him till his last days . His only entertainment after he was forced to return to the island nation from India in 1987 came from a movie projector in the safe house he picked to hide out for the night . This is where he would watch the latest thriller play out as shadows on a blank wall . The Tiger chief ' s obsessive paranoia fed off Kollywood , the Tamil movies that featured his idol , MGR , in the lead , and films of the same genre as the 1984 Kamal Haasan-starrer Oru Kaidhiyin Diary ( A Convict 's Diary ) that spun stories of angry men nursing a grievance , extracting retribution , driven by revenge . A school dropout , Prabhakaran did have his Achilles ' heel . It was n't wine or women or song , or books -- he grew up on Phantom comics -- it was the movies . He was addicted to the string of videos brought to him by the one RAW agent with whom he shared a very special rapport -- the legendary S. Chandrasekharan , known affectionately by the moniker ' Chandran ' Chandrasekharan , who retired from RAW and set up the respected Delhi-based think tank , the South Asia Analysis Group , says it was from these nightly thrillers that the Jaffna conspiracy to assassinate Rajiv Gandhi probably took its inspiration . The Fred Zinnemann 1973 movie , The Day of the Jackal , based on the Frederick Forsyth bestseller , was the probable first seed . Prabhakaran routinely settled scores by publicly eliminating his rivals to instil fear in his enemies ; his first ' kill ' was the Jaffna mayor Alfred Duraiappah in 1975 , whom he reportedly shot as he entered the Varadaraja Perumal temple . Chandran believes the plan to assassinate Rajiv Gandhi was in keeping with this ' kill or get killed ' philosophy . ' Everyone thinks it was the CIA and Mossad that planted the idea of assassinating Rajiv Gandhi in Prabhakaran 's head . I believe it was the movies that he saw ; that 's what gave him the idea , ' says Chandran . Conspiracy theorists , however , demur . It was n't that Delhi did n't have him within sight . If Prabhakaran wanted to get back at India for trying to call the shots in his backyard , India had mobilized every resource at its command to have eyes on their prize target at all times.But as a RAW operative from that era freely admits , with surveillance dependant on tip-offs from Lankan Tamils outside the inner circle , they never knew precisely where he was at any given moment . ' We knew the minute he left that location , ' he laughs . Close , but never close enough . Delhi undoubtedly had ample opportunity to eliminate the LTTE chief a number of times -- and chose not to . As a senior member of the Indian Air Force ( IAF ) , who served in the IPKF and was stationed at the IAF bases in Palaly and Trincomalee , recounts , he and the helicopter squadron he commanded had been given Prabhakaran 's co-ordinates . ' I had my copter , all ready to go . We informed headquarters that we had been tipped off on where he was . One of our chaps had tracked him down . It was all systems go . All we needed was clearance from Delhi and we could eliminate him . Just like that , ' he says , snapping his fingers . ' We waited for the signal but then came the message -- a firm " no " , ' says the senior Air Force pilot . ' We had him in our sights . If we had eliminated him then , who knows . . . ' he says with a shrug , leaving the sentence hanging . Only once thereafter did the IPKF get close enough to Prabhakaran . They bombed his bunker in the Wanni , in his hideout Base One Four , in January 1989 . The LTTE chief , though angry and upset , escaped with barely a scratch . Complicating matters was the confusion and lack of clarity in Delhi 's intelligence and strategic circles , on whether Prabhakaran constituted a short-term threat to be eliminated or a long-term asset to be cultivated . And added to this was the question of whether this bit player who had forcefully interjected himself into the Indo-Sri Lanka narrative by taking on the Indian Army , could still be ' turned ' ; a Tamil ' card ' that India could use to keep Colombo off balance in the years to come . Prabhakaran was under no illusions about where he stood vis- ? -vis Delhi . He may have made concessions on a one-on-one basis to Indians like Chandran , but Rajiv Gandhi 's Delhi was the enemy . In fact , the RAW operative 's relationship with the LTTE chief and the man that RAW cultivated as its LTTE insider , Col Kittu , real name Sathasivan Krishnakumar , was so strong that when Indian soldiers were being held prisoner by the LTTE , it was Chandran -- as he himself admits -- whom the Indian Army called for help . ' They asked me to intercede with the LTTE and get our men released , ' he says . ' I did . I stepped in when Military Intelligence MI asked for help . ' He knew the Lankan . Tamil leaders like few others , all were on a first-name basis with him . Chandran was low-key , nondescript . RAW recruits of that time still recall how , in the mid-1980s , he would simply throw a bag over his shoulder , get on a motorbike and zoom off from their office in Madras and not be seen or heard of for months together . Their guess was that Chandran , the only Indian who could reach out to the top rungs of the Tamil militant groups , had either headed off to Jaffna on a clandestine boat or to one of the many camps in the state where the Tamil groups were being given military training . Thirty years later , incidentally , Chandran continues to staunchly deny that Indian operatives trained the Lankan Tamil separatists . ' We did n't need to . One group of Tamils had already travelled to Palestine and received military training from George Habash 's wing of the PLO Palestine Liberation Organization . When that first group came back , they trained the others ; India had no role to play in giving them military training , ' insists Chandran , as politically correct as ever , leaving out the fact that India had provided refuge and set up the camps where the Tamils trained . Thirty years later , as difficult as it is for him to accept , Chandran also acknowledges that Prabhakaran 's black warrant for Rajiv Gandhi was unexpected . ' I did n't see it coming . I thought I knew him , but one did n't expect this . It makes me want to weep ; it saddens me deeply that we were unable to save Rajiv Gandhi . We should have saved him , we should have known . We did n't really get Prabhakaran , ' says Chandran . Many members of his RAW fraternity as well as senior members of India 's military who served in Sri Lanka with the IPKF have gone public over the years with their disquiet on the role played by the Colombo elite and the political families , particularly President Premadasa who is said to have fuelled Prabhakaran 's antipathy towards Rajiv Gandhi . Rajiv Gandhi was a leader whom Colombo and , for that matter , Pakistan 's counter-intelligence agency , Inter-Services Intelligence ( ISI ) , which had a major presence in the Sri Lankan capital , did not want to see return to lead India . And Prabhakaran was easy pickings for anyone wanting to settle scores with ' Big Brother ' . India paid him scant attention to begin with , preferring Lankan Tamil groups such as the People 's Liberation Organisation of Tamil Eelam ( PLOTE ) and EPRLF . As India played footsie with the other groups , the LTTE grew more powerful , tightening its hold over the Tamil people under an ever more menacing Prabhakaran who refused to be relegated to the margins of the Tamil discourse . Delhi could no longer afford to ignore him . But in trying to contain and manage him , they erred , and erred badly.Sustaining South Asia 's public health successeshttp : **31;2480;TOOLONG ... August 2016 @ 7:30 pmIn recent years , South Asian countries have beaten down infectiousdiseases like malaria , polio and lymphatic filariasis . These public health victories are the result of sustained policies , investments and hard work that are worth celebrating -- and sustaining . Public health programmes need to guard against complacence and re-introduction of disease-causing microbes , which can easily happen in this age of globalised travel and goods transport . caption id= " attachment205425 " align= " alignright " width= " 563 " caption= " Residents gather to look on as laboratory assistants , from the Institute of Serology , collect samples from a sewer in the outskirts of Kolkata to monitor the polio virus in urban West Bengal , India ( Sanjit Das / Panos ) " /caption When beating back a persistent infectious disease appears within reach , governments must ensure policy priority and adequate funding for the last lap . Countries have to pursue these efforts even as they reorient public health systems to face relatively new infections -- like dengue -- as well as challenges arising from the rise of lifestyle-related illnesses . Also called non-communicable diseases ( NCDs ) or chronic diseases , these are not passed from person to person . The four main types are cardiovascular diseases ( like heart attacks and stroke ) , cancers , chronic respiratory diseases ( such as asthma ) , and diabetes . Health planners call it a ' double burden ' that many low -- and middle -- income countries have to face . Sri Lanka , whose overall health indicators are impressive for its level of income , has been grappling with this since the late 1990s . Rolling back infectious diseases Worldwide , public health experts use a common set of definitions for phasing out infectious diseases . In their parlance : <p> Control ' means reducing the incidence and prevalence of a disease to a locally acceptable level ; <p> Elimination means reducing to zero of the incidence of disease in a defined geographical area ( usually a country ) ; and <p> Eradication is the permanent reduction to zero of worldwide infections ( as happened with smallpox in 1979 ) . <p> Despite modern medical advances , combating infectious diseases is an arduous task . " Microbes are dynamic and resilient : they spread locally , nationally and internationally with ease in our globalised world , and when they find susceptible populations they re-emerge as public health problems , " says David L Heymann , a professor of infectious disease epidemiology at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine . He wrote a decade ago : " Surveillance and continuation of control interventions are necessary to maintain achievements in infectious disease control unless transmission has been interrupted and the microbe destroyed worldwide . " Anti-malaria campaigns This caution is illustrated by Sri Lanka 's experiences with malaria control in recent decades . Thanks to indoor spraying and other measures since 1946 , malaria cases came down from 91,990 in 1953 to a mere 17 in 1963 . The island nation was hopeful of crushing the ancient scourge , but soon there was a resurgence : 538,000 cases were reported in 1969 . For the next 30 years , large numbers of cases were reported as the country struggled to maintain control efforts amidst a civil war in malaria endemic areas . Finally , they succeeded . From 1999 to 2011 , the country 's Anti-Malaria Campaign ( AMC ) achieved a 99.9 per cent reduction in malaria ( the war ended in 2009 ) . There have been no deaths due to indigenous malaria since 2007 , and no cases of indigenous malaria reported after October 2012 . In 2013 , 2014 and 2015 , the few reported cases ( 95 , 49 and 36 respectively ) all involved those who had contracted malaria while overseas ( as migrant workers , business travellers or UN peacekeepers ) . " As a result , the country has moved in to the phase of prevention of re-introduction of malaria , " says the AMC . Having completed three consecutive years without indigenous malaria , Sri Lanka recently applied for WHO certification as a malaria-free country . That is expected before end 2016 . So far , 33 countries and territories have been certified and entered in the WHO register as having eliminated malaria through specific measures . In 2015 , the Maldives was certified as malaria-free . But as long as the malaria-carrying mosquitos abound , countries can not relax control measures . " The price of an outstanding surveillance and response system , which is now essential , is not beyond the affordability of Sri Lanka 's health system , which is known to deliver an equitable and effective health service , " four public health researchers and officials wrote in a review article in 2014 . The authors added : " Singapore , with similar environmental risks for malaria as Sri Lanka , has sustained a malaria surveillance and response system to keep the country malaria-free , despite large volumes of labour migration into the country and small local outbreaks , which must reflect an assumption that the investments are well below the cost of a malaria resurgence . " Polio and Filariasis Polio is another major disease whose roll-back is nearing the last lap . South Asia is the last stronghold of the crippling virus . Polio cases worldwide have come down from an estimated 350,000 in 1988 ( when WHO member states resolved to eradicate it ) to 74 in 2015 . Today , only two countries ( Afghanistan and Pakistan ) remain polio-endemic , compared to more than 125 in 1988 . Thanks to a massive mobilisation , India succeeded in stopping polio transmission in January 2011 . WHO 's South East Asia Region -- home to a quarter of the world 's population -- was certified as entirely polio-free in March 2014 . Polio work in Afghanistan and Pakistan ( which fall under WHO 's Eastern Mediterranean Region ) is held up by political instability . Violent attacks on vaccination workers have caused setbacks , as have widely held myths fuelling suspicions on vaccine safety . " As long as a single child remains infected , children in all countries are at risk of contracting polio . Failure to eradicate polio from these last remaining strongholds could result in as many as 200,000 new cases every year , within 10 years , all over the world , " cautions WHO . Meanwhile , progress against lymphatic filariasis ( LF ) has been more promising . In June , WHO announced that the Maldives and Sri Lanka have eliminated LF , also known as elephantiasis . The mosquito-borne disease was crippling people for decades , forcing them to lead lives of stigma , discrimination and poverty . " The success in the Maldives and Sri Lanka follows intensified mosquito control efforts ; treatment of the infected population , disability prevention and control ; strengthening of surveillance ; and closely monitoring and evaluating these efforts which together helped eliminate LF as a public health problem , " WHO said . At a recent ceremony in Colombo to mark the accomplishment , the director of Sri Lankia 's Anti-Filariasis Campaign ( AFC ) highlighted the need for continuing disease surveillance in endemic areas while also conducting surveys in non-endemic areas . ' Ensure healthy lives and promoting well-being for all at all ages ' is one of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals ( SDGs ) adopted by all UN member states in September 2015 . A multi-pronged strategy to deal with the double burden of disease is essential for pursuing this goal . Courtesy scidev.netPandering to western imperialistshttp : **28;2513;TOOLONG ... August 2016 @ 7:01 pmFor the past few days I have been musing about the great Anagarika Dharmapala , whose 152nd birth anniversary falls on the 17th of next month . Quite apart from the invaluable service Anagarika did with regard to reviving the place of Buddhism in this country during British colonial times and setting up the Maha Bodhi Society , one of his great qualities was that he worked hard to help develop self-respect in our people , ruthlessly attacking their aping of unnecessary British habits and paying pooja to western imperialists. caption id= " attachment205413 " align= " alignright " width= " 200 " caption= " US Ambassador Atul Keshap " /caption What he would have thought and had to say about the behaviour of our current leaders , as they pay pooja to the new western imperialists , I can only imagine . Just take the recent newspaper headline ' US commends SL on passage of OMP bill ' , and the prominent quotes on the front page of that paper from such ' important ' persons like the US ambassador Atul Keshap , US Assistant Secretary of the State Department Nisha Biswal and US Assistant Secretary of the State Department Tom Malinowski who " tweeted " their approval of the legislature of our country passing a bill to set up the Office of Missing Persons . I do not want to comment on the propriety of a foreign diplomat like Keshap who is serving as his country 's representative in this country having the gall to comment on such internal matters . Would the Sri Lankan ambassador comment in the Washington papers on American internal matters -- even on the ludicrous farce of the current American presidential campaign ? Decent diplomats should diplomatically steer clear of discussing in public the internal matters that do not concern them . I recall in 1991 when a British high commissioner to Sri Lanka , David Gladstone , was expelled from this country because he started poking his fingers into our local elections . caption id= " attachment205414 " align= " alignleft " width= " 200 " caption= " US Assistant Secretary of State Tom Malinowski " /caption Of course at that time we had a President who had a bit more of a spine and was a stronger personality than our current President , who does not have the guts to even expel members of his own party who defy him ! I also find it particularly galling to our see the pronouncements of minor functionaries of the US government ( Assistant Secretaries of State , for heaven 's state ) given such prominence in our daily newspapers . Would even a small town newspaper in America give such prominence to the tweets of an assistant secretaryof a Sri Lankan government department ? And let it be known that this Tom Malinowski is a man who is well known to have contributed US $500 to the 2004 presidential campaign of John Kerry . When Kerry was appointed Secretary of State , we find Malinowski appointed as his Assistant Secretary ! Rewarding political supporters with the plums of office is not a practice confined to Sri Lanka ! Sadly we in this country are now governed by a set of leaders who appear to be so subservient to the dictates of the US that we keep bending over backwards to obtain the approval of these low level functionaries of a government that functions in the world today with absolute no regard for the human rights of the Afghans , the Syrians , the Iraqis ... caption id= " attachment205416 " align= " alignright " width= " 200 " caption= " US Assistant Secretary of State Nisha Biswal " /caption Are we , an independent sovereign nation , so subservient to American imperialism that we need to seek the approval of that nation for everything we do ? Now that the cabinet has approved the purchase of new fighter planes for our Air Force , will we subserviently have to purchase them from the US , the country which is the world 's largest exporter of armaments ? Anagarika Dharmapala would have had much to say about our leaders ' lack of **26;2543;TOOLONG battle : Lanka-linked US expert examines key issueshttp : **34;2571;TOOLONG ... August 2016 @ 6:45 pmJoel Rubin says Hillary victory will split the Republican Party down the middle ; rare window of opportunity to improve Sri Lanka-US ties caption id= " attachment205396 " align= " alignright " width= " 400 " caption= " Joel Rubin : Washington wants to build a special partnership with Sri Lanka " /caption By Ameen Izzadeen Joel Rubin , 46 , is a peace activist , women 's rights activist , health care activist , politician and now foreign policy consultant . Mr. Rubin , who also served as a deputy assistant secretary for legislative affairs in the State Department and now a Democratic Party activist , has a Sri Lankan connection . He is married to a Sri Lankan born American . His women 's right activism also has a Sri Lankan connection . That was due to a horrible experience his Sri Lankan mother-in-law went through in the United States . His health care activism is connected to his own health crisis , which began when he woke up one morning with ringing in his right ear . Tests showed the growth of a tumor on the nerves controlling balance and hearing on his right side . It was benign and successfully removed . Following surgery , he had a problem . He saw the world skewed . After months of rehabilitation , he is back to normal , though he is hard of hearing on the troubled ear . Rubin , a political analyst whose views are often sought by US news channels , was in Sri Lanka last week , holidaying with his family . In an interview with the Sunday Times , he analysed the upcoming elections and Hillary Clinton policies . nYou give priority to women 's issues and connect your activism with your mother-in-law , a Sri Lankan . Could you please share her story with our readers ? I am inspired everyday by the women in my life . I am married to an American born Sri Lankan , Nilmini . She is my blue sapphire and three daughers -- Renuka , Araliya and Bahavana . Mithra , my mother-in-law , came to the United States in the 1960s , prior to Nilmini being born . When I ran for Congress there were issues that we wanted to talk about . Women empowerment was crucial to ensure that we had a just society . I was a peace volunteer . Beginning my professional career after college , I worked with women 's groups in the field in Costa Rica . My mother was a college professor . I assumed that the life at my home was the way it was . But by going overseas , it became clear to me that it was n't . In the United States women do n't get equal pay for equal work . It gets worse as one goes down the line -- the white women with education , white women without education , black women with education and black women without education , minority women , immigrant women , it gets lower and lower . It is extremely unfair . In my family , my mother-in-law suffered an overt form of discrimination , much worse than the economic inequality we were talking about . It was blatant racism and physical violence . Because she was a coloured woman , she was forcibly sterilised against her will after giving birth to my wife in Washington State . I will describe it as manipulated Eugenics . ( Eugenics is a movement that existed in the 1920s and 30s and it sought to improve the genetic quality of the human population ) . After she gave birth , her husband went home . She was in hospital . It was normal . Then the doctor came in and told her , " No more brown babies for you . " He put her under anesthesia and sterlised her against her will -- a traumatic example of discrimination and violence . I am so happy that she came forward and shared her story as part of my campaigning for Congress . For me it is an eye-opening . This year , we have a woman running for president and that is bringing out a lot of questions and issues . It was just like when Barack Obama was running for president . A lot of people did not like an African American being the president . But now Hillary Clinton . Sri Lanka beat us to the punch in 1960 , producing the first ever female head of government . Thanks Sri Lanka for paving the path . Opinion polls show Hillary Clinton has a clear lead over Donald Trump . But we have not heard the debates yet . Will they tilt the scales ? The polls clearly show that Hillary has an eight to ten percent lead . The Brexit poll also showed the stay camp leading prior to the people . So People like me , as Democrats , get nervous about that . Even a ten point lead is not a guarantee . American politics is entering a period of strategic shift . Most people are not happy with what they see . Democrats were supportive of Bernie Sanders and Hillary Clinton is the establishment candidate . She is the well-known , well-funded and well-qualified candidate in the history of our party . Going up against Bernie Sanders , who was practically unknown and had never been a Democrat , she beat him but she had to adopt his progressive policies at the Democratic convention to call a truce with the progressive base . So now in many ways Bernie Sanders has shaped the policy platform of the Democratic Party . Hillary Clinton has smartly adopted it and brought it together to take the party to victory . Trump , on the other hand , defeated the most competitive field of establishment candidates the Republicans have ever had and he did so with little money . Trump represents a Republican base which is anti-establishment . I think the debates would be the downfall of Trump . In the Republican Party debates , Trump was able to knock out the other candidates . He did , however , do that with language that is appealing to his base , but repulsive to Democrats and those in the middle which is where the votes are . So if Trump maintains that approach , he is in trouble . But Hillary has demonstrated her capacity to be different from those Republican candidates who were tongue-tied in the debates with Trump . In 2000 when she ran for the Senate , she ran against Republican Rick Lazio , and she infuriated him in the debate to the point where he got up from the podium , moved over and walked towards her in a threatening way . And then he pulled back . He lost the election . And then last year , she went to testify before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee to answer questions on her role in the Benghazi attack . Many thought it would be Hillary 's downfall but she testified for 11-and-a-half hours and defeated her distractors . She was calm and effective . But the question now is : will Trump agree to the debates , because he is trying to argue that the debate schedule is rigged and unfair . Trump is one of those characters who , when he does not like where the result is going , tries to change the rules of the game . Let 's assume that Hillary Clinton will make it to the presidency . But she is perceived as a hawk , the one who prodded President Barack Obama to go after Muammar Gaddafi and Bashar al Assad . Thus there is reasonable fear that she would bring more chaos to world , especially to West Asia ? I think it is a bit unfair characterisation of her . As Secretary of State for four years she successfully negotiated a deal with Russia to reduce nuclear weapons . Another of her feats was the round of diplomacy with Iran . Another was to negotiate a ceasefire with Israel and the Palestinians . Lots of her work was to promote women and girls in diplomacy and development . And there were also national security issues , battles and debates on Syria . It is recorded that she wanted to be more aggressive in the beginning but we were n't . But when we look back at the results after 400,000 deaths in Syria and no clear end in sight , one ca n't argue the path we have taken is successful . It is hard to say that what she was arguing for would have worked . We tried nothing but strong active diplomacy . With regard to Libya , may be Hillary went with mainstream consensus , with the Arab League also coming up with a resolution to use force to stop Gaddafi . President Obama ultimately decided to authorise strikes on Libya but the biggest failure in Libya was the post-conflict situation . We were not as robust there as we could have been . Our ambassador Chris Stevens , a personal friend of mine , was killed . It was a nightmarish situation in Libya . It is not to say that keeping Gaddafi or not dealing with Gaddafi at that time would have led to a better outcome . So I do n't believe that Hillary coming in is going to be a military-first or shoot-first kind of presidency . She has surrounded herself with people who are major figures in diplomacy , some of the best minds we have on the diplomacy front , but also willing to use force as part of that package . On national security and foreign policy , Hillary as president can start work without a briefing needed to explain what agencies do what functions and it is incredibly advantageous in her case . I fear the alternative and the alternative is a person who seems to have little or no value for America 's relationship around the world or treaty obligations . He does not seem to care about nuclear proliferation . He seems to be cavalier about nuclear weapons and about asking Russia to spy on the Democratic Party . He is an erratic character . But despite all this advantage you talk about she still compromised national security by having a private email server ? Well she said she made mistakes and I take that word . FBI director James Comey himself said it was not something that warrants further action though he called it reckless . He did not claim that national security was compromised . It is a concern but it is a different question when you have one candidate saying we should invite a foreign government to spy on us , and the other saying she made mistakes . You are a peace activist . President Obama was committed to the Middle East peace but he leaves office without achieving it . Can Hillary play the honest broker role and achieve the impossible which Mr. Obama naively , mistakenly or otherwise thought possible , given her pro-Israeli stance ? I helped start an organsiation called J-street which is an alternative pro-Israel peace lobby . Started by the pro-peace Jewish community -- I am Jewish . I think it is in America 's interest to make peace between Israel and the Palestinians . As a supporter of Israel , I believe Israel needs to maintain its democratic and Jewish character and that 's the way we achieve peace with Palestinians . I care deeply about peace with the Palestinians . They need to have a just peace where they can build their own state and become part of the community of nations . Hillary has been there for years . She was there in the 1990s and got some criticism for engaging with the Palestinians . Bill Clinton went to Gaza in the late 1990s . He sponsored the Oslo peace process . I think her experience as Secretary of State has taught her how hard it is to achieve peace . It has also taught her that in the American political context , at every level we are accountable to the American electorate . One has to make sure that we are bringing enough support along with it . Take for instance , the Iran nuclear deal . The people supported diplomacy with Iran . We were able to build a constituency that supported diplomacy though it was not popular with Israel and its hardline supporters in Washington . We have to create the space with intellectual and political support for policy makers to go for it . Something on this line has to happen on the Israeli-Palestinian issue . But we wo n't see in her someone who would force Israel into a deal , because we know that such an approach does not work . But I am dismayed and worried about the situation in Israel and Palestine . I was there and it was shocking to see the separation wall -- a horrible thing to watch . I think it is hard to dissect what went wrong with President Obama 's efforts . He was pushing the Arab League , the Saudis and the Palestinians . I think he was right to push . He had the political space to do it . The problem was that others did not want to go along with him . Netanyahu did not make a real commitment to negotiate . The Palestinians had their own problems of government ; the Saudis were not willing to make the extra leap for peace . Now we see a different world -- the Syrian conflict , the post-Arab Spring and the post-Iran nuclear deal . The Israelis have started to reach out to neighbours -- Egypt , the Gulf states , the Saudis who are looking at Iran warily . Hillary understands this reality . She is a traditionalist in the realist world . The Republican Party was unable to produce a nationally accepted candidate . Is the GOP dead meat now ? It may be so well after the elections . This is the kind of election where Trump has done something we have never seen in modern American politics . One man has become a wrecking ball of the party . Trump is really blasting through all the traditional positions of the Republican Party and he is demoralising their leadership to the extent where they are facing the last gasp of influence . If he is defeated , it will be difficult for the Republicans to pick up the pieces . In 2012 after their defeat , the Republicans had an autopsy to figure out what went wrong . The autopsy advocated a rapport with the minorities and the Hispanics and called for a better foreign policy . Trump is doing the opposite of it . But he is popular among the Republican base . In the last decade or so , the Republican base has become more and more hawkish , more and more xenophobic , more and more conservative , more and more anti-government , and anti-establishment . The Tea Party movement was part of the process . What Hillary is trying to do right now is to scoop up a significant amount of reasonable Republicans who are now homeless , who do not feel they have a party . Millions of Americans do not share Trump 's vision of the world and xenophobia and are comfortable with the Democrats . But in Clinton victory you can see a split in the Republican Party or a big mess . Most social justice activists are happy to note the return of socialism to the mainstream US politics -- as manifested in the campaign of Bernie Sanders . But still politics in the US is a game scripted by the One Percent or the Wall Street . How do you see this phenomenon ? I as a congressional candidate had to raise money . I raised nearly 400,000 dollars . I was on the phone six hours a day , asking people for money . That is not the way to run for public office and that is not the way to attract good people to run for office . We see a situation where elections have become expensive -- could be a billion dollars at presidential level . The candidates have to go where the money is . And that is dangerous from the governance perspective because these people do have an outside influence on policy . I do believe that bringing Bernie into the Democratic fold in the Hillary campaign is significant . People power -- as signified by his supporters -- has had an impact on the Democratic Party in the right way and it would show itself if they come out on election day . That 's how the progressives should demonstrate their power . If they stay at home or vote against her and if she loses , then they have lost everything . But if they come in their numbers and show her they can help her win the election , then they are in the room together with their demands that include $15 an hour minimum wage , strengthening social security and health care . I do not think progressive politics is going away anytime . When I contested for Congress from a wealthy part of the country , I saw people support progressive positions . Though I did not win the election , the rival candidate who was arguing for those progressive positions won . The United States was a co-sponsor of several human rights-related resolutions against Sri Lanka at the United Nations Human Rights Council . The Obama administration , following a change of Government in Sri Lanka last year , softened its stance and became more cooperative , probably because of geopolitical exigencies in view of China 's close relations with Sri Lanka . Do you think there will be a continuity of this policy under the next president ? I think there is a window of opportunity between the United States and Sri Lanka . We have a new American president coming in , and whenever that happens there 's a fresh look . In Sri Lanka , we see a relatively new government which is also doing things differently . The perception among the people who track this in Washington is that there 's an opening in Sri Lanka that is different from the recent past . The 2015 elections have brought in a government that has made public commitments to political reforms seen as a gateway to better relationship with the United States . The Obama administration wanted to explore openly and aggressively moves towards this relationship . That is why Secretary John Kerry came here , that is why Washington has appointed Atul Keshap , a personal friend of mine , as the ambassador . When he speaks , people in Washington listen . People are interested in the strategic relationship . From the American government 's perspective , programmes to strengthen democracy , civil society and human rights are also on the table . That is a good sign . But this window of time is one where the political reforms process has catalysed new thinking in Washington about how to strengthen , build and grow this partnership successfully . There is also the geostrategic question . There is China out there , while the US-India partnership is moving forward . Then the strategic location of Sri Lanka , the energy market in the shipping transit , counter terrorism , piracy and a whole bunch of factors we should be thinking about . But at the end of the day , it is the Sri Lankan people themselves who motivated this positive shift in bilateral relations . The new political opening here has allowed for an inflection point of thinking in Washington . So it is really a unique window.Ardhi Pooja ceremonyhttp : **32;2607;TOOLONG ... August 2016 @ 5:33 pmAn Ardhi Pooja ceremony was recently held at Sri Dharmarama Karumaniamman Kovil . Chief guest and western province councillor Jayantha de Silva of the Pragna Pradeepa concept , is seen here making an offering during the pooja . Etisalat links up with ' So Others May See ' for vision carehttp : **36;2641;TOOLONG ... August 2016 @ 5:31 pmThe Vision 2020 Secretariat of the Ministry of Health recently released the National Survey of Blindness , Visual Impairment , Ocular Morbidity and Disability in Sri Lanka . According to their findings , Sri Lanka has a prevalence rate of 1.7 % in blindness . This means 1.7% of Sri Lankans aged 40 and above are blind in both eyes . caption id= " attachment205384 " align= " alignleft " width= " 400 " caption= " State Minister Ruwan Wijewardene who is also President of ' So Others May See ' project is seen here with Etisalat Chief Commercial Officer Yasser Aboul Mayem and a schoolgirl " /caption Cataracts are the most common cause of blindness and Sri Lanka has a backlog of over 1million Cataract surgeries in the last five years . Refractive errors , glaucoma , diabetic retinopathy and blindness are among the other causes of vision impairment in the country . Although most cases of cataracts are related to the aging process , occasionally children can be born with the condition , or a cataract may develop after eye injuries , inflammation , and some other eye diseases . The ' Denethakata Senehasak'campaign is the corporate social responsibility ( CSR ) component of Etisalat Lanka . With the brand 's continued partnership with So Others May see Inc . ( SOMS ) , Etisalat has been involved in supporting Sri Lanka 's efforts in working towards the elimination of cataracts and vision impairment , which is the primary cause of preventable blindness . The brand had previously advocated the cause of safeguarding the country 's vision through their annual ' Spectacle Dansala ' project to provide free spectacles to those in need . The project has conducted vision screening for people across Sri Lanka who lack access to timely eye care and helped restore the sight of individuals while donating over 8,800 spectacles . The campaign was launched at the Attanagalla and Gampaha Education divisions where 78,612 school children from 98 schools were screened for vision impairments . Approximately 900 students benefited from receiving custom-made prescription spectacles , while 221 students were referred to regional eye hospitals . Chief Commercial Officer of Etisalat Lanka Yasser Aboul Amayem said Etisalat intends to continue and expand this CSR initiative by eventually focusing on extending the programme to all parts of the country . " There are many people in our community , especially the younger generation , who are deprived of clear vision due to difficulties . We are proud to partner with SOMS once again to conduct this programme to eliminate avoidable vision defects and blindness . " " An organization such as Etisalat can behave as a pillar of support to increase public awareness and also support the cause by providing individuals from low income families with aid to restore their sight through initiatives such as " Denethakata Senehasak " said President of SOMS . State Minister of Defence Ruwan Wijewardene . State Minister Wijewardene stated that this year they hope to achieve their target of providing free eye care services to over 12,000 individuals , including both adults and children . " We believe that everyone deserves to continue living a productive and meaningful life and we are happy to partner with Etisalat Lanka , who have supported our cause and are partnering with us to conduct this project , " he said . Etisalat hopes that through these initiatives , they are able to significantly contribute to reducing the number of persons suffering from preventable blindness via more efficient screening , eye care services and the provision of surgeries and spectacles to correct vision impairments in the elderly as well as the young . " We have received immense help from Etisalat to conduct these programmes with Vision 2020 Secretariat of Ministry of Health , thus providing sight to many who previously could not see , " said the State Minister.International Conference on Human Rightshttp : **34;2679;TOOLONG ... August 2016 @ 5:25 pmThe ' International Conference on Human Rights , Citizenship and Democratisation ' will be held on August 27 and 28 to celebrate the 25th anniversary of the Centre for the Study of Human Rights ( CSHR ) in the field of human rights . Justice Minister Wijeyadasa Rajapakshe will be the Chief Guest at the inauguration which will be held on August 27 at 4 p.m. at the Sri Lanka Foundation , while the sessions will be held at the BMICH . This conference aims to enhance human rights protection and promotion towards entrenching human rights values by providing a platform to academics , civil society , students and participants to share their knowledge , research and related experiences towards creating a human rights culture for all . The CSHR was established as a human rights organisation in 1991 , within the Faculty of Law of the University of Colombo . The CSHR has been engaging in education , research , capacity building and providing knowledge services in the area of human rights to diverse sectors such as government , including security forces and law enforcement authorities , legal and medical professionals , school and university communities , media , rural and plantation communities , quazis , civil society and the general public , islandwide . Being a university based organisation , the CSHR has been able to interlink the theoretical aspect with the practical application of human rights at different levels across the country . This exceptional status , coupled with international collaboration , has also enabled the CSHR to carry out a variety of human rights education programmes from certificate to master 's level , in addition to the dissemination of human rights through research , capacity building and knowledge services at the local and international levels . Prior registration will be advisable and for further information please access the website : **27;2715;TOOLONG Independence Day of Pakistanhttp : **32;2744;TOOLONG ... August 2016 @ 5:25 pmSpeaking on the occasion of the 70th Independence Day of Pakistan in Colombo , the High Commissioner of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan in Sri Lanka , Maj Gen ( R ) Syed Shakeel Hussain said that economic cooperation coupled with peaceful resolution of disputes will pave the way for a promising future for not just the south Asian region but also for the world at large . The High Commissioner said that the Government of Pakistan is actively engaged with all neighbouring countries in an effort to create a peaceful neighbourhood and at the same time intensifying economic engagement with all friendly countries . ? On Pakistan-Sri Lanka relations , he explained that historical and cultural links date back to the time when the Indus Valley and Gandhara Civilisations prospered in what is now Pakistan . Pakistan and Sri Lankan are continuing to nurture their mutually beneficial relations in diverse fields with both countries exploring ways to broaden and deepen economic ties , through enhancement of trade and bilateral investments , within the framework of the Free Trade Agreement . The Chief Justice of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan Justice Anwar Zaheer Jamali who is currently visiting Sri Lanka , was the chief guest on the occasion . In his address , the Chief Justice said that Pakistan attaches great importance to its relations with Sri Lanka , in both bilateral and regional context . Chief Justice Jamali said there is a strong desire in Pakistan to further develop and promote the bilateral relationship between the two friendly countries . He also commended the government of Sri Lanka for taking admirable initiatives to promote interfaith harmony , reconciliation and national unity between all the segments of society . The High Commissioner also hoisted the national flag of Pakistan and cut the Independence Day cake along with the Chief guest and children . Later , the messages of the President and Prime Minister of Pakistan were read out to the participants . The flag hoisting ceremony was attended by a large number of participants from various walks of life including members of the Sri Lanka Pakistan Friendship Trade and Investment Association , Pakistan Sri Lanka Business Council , prominent Sri Lankan personalities , Pakistani community , High Commission officials and the media . The video of first ever ? tri-lingual Pakistan Sri Lanka friendship anthem ? produced by the High Commission of Pakistan Colombo ? was also launched by the Chief Justice Anwar Zaheer Jamali and High Commissioner Maj Gen ( R ) Syed Shakeel Hussain.The Tamil Card -- Strategy or Blunder ? http : **32;2778;TOOLONG ... August 2016 @ 5:17 pmExtract from the book At the height of the Sri Lankan crisis in the 1980s and 1990s , all the major players in that country accused India of attempting to destabilize its smaller neighbour by arming Tamil separatists . And they continued to hold on to this belief through all the finger-pointing and accusations that followed . So the central question that must be addressed is this : Why did India under Indira Gandhi prepare for a covert intervention , only for her son and successor , Rajiv Gandhi , to abandon the Tamil card and , by accident or design , turn a strategic asset into an enemy ? Was India 's Sri Lanka policy driven by these two Indian leaders personally ? Or was it their advisers who altered their thinking on this unquiet island and , once that happened , sent relations between the two countries into a downward spiral ? Clearly , Indira and Rajiv Gandhi lived in different times and were governed by vastly differing strategic imperatives . They were also two individuals who looked at foreign policy through different prisms . Either way , history would show that neither of the paths chosen by the two leaders fully served Indian interests . One talked war but never waged it ; the other talked peace but went to war . In the long run , arming the Tamil insurgents would prove to be counter-productive as it gave angry young Tamil men and women who had an axe to grind against the Sinhalas access to arms and weaponry they would not have had otherwise . India failed to factor in that even if it shut off the arms tap , the Tamils had enough middlemen -- Sri Lankan Tamil , Indian and foreign -- to procure weapons through alternative sources . Leaving the Tamil insurgents stranded , without the promised Tamil Eelam and with a province instead of a nation , alienated not just the Tamils -- whose cause Delhi claimed it was espousing -- but the Sri Lankan majoritarian polity as well . The overt Indian military intervention only served to reinforce the suspicions of an already wary Sinhala community that India was not there to play honest broker , but was preparing to midwife a de facto Tamil state . Today , India -- Sri Lanka relations are picking up after nearly forty years of mutual suspicion fuelled by one self-inflicted wound after another . But even six years after the LTTE was annihilated by the Mahinda Rajapaksa government in May 2009 , Colombo was unable to fully embrace Delhi , at least not until the present government 's new power trio -- President Maithripala Sirisena , Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe and former President Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga -- recognized the perils of not having India fight their corner , especially when they were facing an international community more than ready to try them for war crimes.Mahattaya connectionhttp : **30;2812;TOOLONG ... August 2016 @ 5:01 pmPulling the wool over everyone 's eyes , the LTTE number two , Mahattaya , held extensive peace talks in Colombo . The Tiger insurgents even signalled they were committed to finding a political solution to the ethnic impasse by forming an LTTE political wing , the People 's Front of Liberation Tigers ( PFLT ) or Makkal Munnani , which Mahattaya was appointed to head . Prabhakaran , the man who believed violence was the answer to all his problems , justified the move to mend fences with Sri Lanka 's UNP by spinning the fiction that after India 's betrayal , they would get a ' better deal ' from Premadasa and thus save the Tamil people . caption id= " attachment205364 " align= " alignright " width= " 300 " caption= " Raw agent Mahattaya who was tortured to death is seen with Prabhakaran " /caption In reality , all he wanted was to use Premadasa who shared Prabhakaran 's virulent antipathy against ' foreign troops ' -- read India -- to run the IPKF out of the country . The first benefits accrued pretty quickly -- armed with the weapons supplied by Premadasa and the information on Indian troop movements shared by Sri Lankan intelligence , the Tigers effected huge losses in men and material on the Indian Army in the Wanni region . ' We knew VP was in touch with Premadasa , and that Premadasa had operatives of the Sri Lanka Army spying on our ops and passing the information on to the LTTE . I do n't know whether NIB the Sri Lanka intelligence unit , National Intelligence Bureau was conducting it . In any case they were tapping my phone whenever I went to Colombo . So I knew that they knew , ' Col Hariharan says . While the distrust between India and Prabhakaran persisted , a report that appeared in The Hindu on 24 July 1989 , about two years after the IPKF 's arrival on Lankan shores , headlined ' Prabhakaran Reported Killed in a Shootout ' was the proverbial red rag to the LTTE bull . Once again , as with all secret ops , and unbeknownst to the army , MI or any other agency for that matter , an elaborate strategy by RAW to remove Prabhakaran and replace him with Mahattaya had been put in motion by 1989 . The story , planted in the highly respected Indian newspaper , was meant to unnerve the Tamil community and throw the LTTE off balance . What it actually did was to confirm all of Prabhakaran 's worst fears . It exposed RAW 's hand . It tipped Prabhakaran off on what awaited him , and it made him all the more relentless in his determination to get the IPKF off the island and wreak vengeance on the highest echelons of the Indian government for attempting to eliminate him . It almost certainly planted the first seed of suspicion in his mind about his deputy , Mahattaya , as he wondered whether he was now in RAW 's pay . The report said Mahattaya had killed Prabhakaran in a shootout , and proclaimed himself the leader of the Tigers in a widely circulated video.The report said the shoot-out happened as a result of the two men 's differences over making a deal with President Premadasa . ' In the last ten days , top political leaders of the Eelam movement have been eliminated violently . . . ' the report said , including ' the outstanding moderate political figure , the veteran A. Amirthalingam , his colleague V. Yogeswaran ( TULF ) , and the leader of PLOTE Uma Maheswaran who earlier lost to Prabhakaran in the violent struggle for supremacy in the militant movement . ' It went on to describe how people had gathered to pay homage to posters of Prabhakaran in the village of Ananthaperiyakulam , 20 kilometres from Vavuniya . The report stated that the shoot-out , which claimed the life of Prabhakaran 's lieutenant Kittu , took place in the Vavuniya jungles from where Prabhakaran was driven out before being shot dead . But , with Kittu and Maheswaran clearly very much alive , it tipped off the Tiger supremo on what RAW had planned for him . He knew he was the target , that this was a bid to take over the Tigers and place them under a new head , his deputy , Mahattaya . Four years later , Mahattaya , along with over 250 men who were loyal to him , would pay the price for RAW 's monumental bungling.Lanka 's Muslims and terrorism : the fact and the fictionhttp : **33;2844;TOOLONG ... August 2016 @ 7:56 pmText of the speech delivered by M.M Zuhair PC , former Member of Parliament and ambassador , at the felicitation ceremony for Ruwan Wijewardene MP , State Minister of Defence on August 5 at the Excellency , Colombo 6 . The ceremony was organised by the Forum For National Unity ( FFNU ) . Let me thank Mr. N.M . Ameen , President of the Forum for inviting me to speak on this occasion of felicitating Hon. Ruwan Wijewardene MP , State Minister of Defence . Let us all , wish the Chief Guest a great &amp; successful role in rebuilding our country . caption id= " attachment204724 " align= " alignright " width= " 300 " caption= " Mr. Zuhair adddressing the gathering at the felicitation ceremony " /caption The gathering here tonight is a very distinguished assembly of Muslims . ( The presence of such a large and representative gathering at this event to felicitate our Chief Guest , is a clear message that , ) as patriotic citizens of Sri Lanka , the support of the Muslims in the endeavours of the State Minister of Defence to build a peaceful and united Sri Lanka will be readily available . It would be unduly presumptuous on my part to assume that the authorities may be unaware of the matters that would be referred to tonight , as they regularly update themselves . But our objective tonight is two- fold . Firstly to revisit some of the concerns of the Muslims and place them within the perspective of the country 's national interest . Secondly , the time has come to alert our own community on the need to exercise vigilance . Intelligence gathering is important . But gathering reliable and accurate information is more important . Avoiding misleading or dubious information placed by parties with vested interests is absolutely important . A wrong judgment in interpreting intelligence can cost lives . Indeed it has cost precious innocent lives . Let me refer to one of several instances.You know quite well that less than a month ago , the report of the four-member Committee of Privy Council Members , appointed by the British government , to hold a public inquiry into Britain 's role in the invasion of Iraq in 2003 , was released . Headed by Sir John Chilcot , the Committee blamed , among others , the British Secret Intelligence Service , better known as M16 for presenting to the British government , the so called " Hot " intelligence , as described in the report , of Iraq possessing weapons of mass destruction ( WMD ) . The war on Iraq was launched and you know the consequences ! Over a million and a half innocent human lives were destroyed in Iraq , apart from several other devastating consequences to Iraq and humanity at large . The point that we need to remember is that the Chilcot report exposes the dangers of subverting unreliable " intelligence " to achieve collateral objectives . The M16 report played a crucial role in obliging those who had already decided to invade Iraq.President of the Forum for National Unity Al -- Haj Ameen said very emphatically a while ago , that the Muslims of Sri Lanka have nothing to do with any terror outfit , whether ISIS or any other . That is a statement that will have the unanimous approval of the entire Muslim community of Sri Lanka . Nevertheless we are equally clear that every bit of terror information must be investigated thoroughly and dealt with firmly in a transparent manner and according to law . Zero tolerance is the name . Though there are legal limitations in the armed forces handling surveillance measures and investigations , the Police under the Ministry of Law &amp; Order can step in and complete the process.Recently there were reports published in sections of the media , alleging that two Keralites from South India had transited through Negombo to join the ISIS . The banner headline of this daily screamed " Colombo Hub For Islamic Fundamentalism " . When you analyse the text of this report , you will not find any material to support the mischievous headline that Colombo had become the hub for ' Islamic Fundamentalism ' or the allegation that the Kerala couple , a man and a woman , had anything to do with the ISIS or had joined the ISIS . Even the names of the two persons are not recognizable Muslim names ! The published text quotes the origin of this story to an Indian intelligence source , but whose name or the name of the institution which the source represents was not disclosed . Interestingly that same daily wrote a very welcome editorial last Tuesday ( 2nd August 2016 ) . Referring to the story of the Kerala couple , the editorial said , ( I quote ) " Sadly , this has been nothing but a media spectacle made out of a bogus story ..... This trend of exaggerated yellow journalism , with regard to terrorism , has gone a long distance and should not be allowed to continue ...... these reports of ill-sourced , ill-informed and down- right horrendous journalism should stop altogether . " ( Unquote ) . A very welcome editorial indeed , coming as it does from the very daily which had carried the Kerala couple 's story . In addition to the Editor of this daily , there is some- one ( in this gathering present amongst us tonight , ) whom we should compliment , for this refreshing editorial ! He has been named in the editorial itself ! The daily is quoting this gentleman as having stated that the " media is going to town with unnecessary attention on things that never happened . " Indeed he had the authority to say what he said ! He is none other than our Defence Secretary Mr. Karunasena Hettiarachchi . He deserves your appreciation- a round of applause please ! Having looked into a few similar media reports published previously , I wish to underline the point that reports of this nature , without any credibility are being planted in the media from time to time by entities with an agenda of their own , even though our defence establishment had rejected such reports . Comprehensive investigation including interviewing those who initiate these allegations , in whichever part of the world they may be from , will be extremely valuable . Amongst such reports is one in which it was claimed that the Lashker e Taiba also known as LeT , had established a " facilitation center " in Sri Lanka . That was in 2009 , exactly one month after the war ended . It is seven years since the war ended . We are yet to find such a centre . It is similar to the WMD story ! Four years later in 2013 , one Madhav Nalapat filed a Colombo datelined story in the Indian weekly ' Sunday Guardian ' that Sri Lanka is fast becoming the new launching pad for Pakistan 's alleged terror out-fit Lashker e Taiba . It is three years since the Nalapat story got published and it is now known that there is no truth in the story . Colombo based Nalapat should have been questioned by the Sri Lankan authorities and his assistance sought to cross-check his claims , however ridiculous they may have been . In 2013 , another story allegedly leaked to the media by an un-named foreign intelligence source said that LeT terrorists had planned to carry out an attack on South India from Jaffna ! These were all blatant lies that got published in the media , but stories that people thought were true and injected false fears , in the hearts and minds of the people here , of possible terror attacks in Sri Lanka . That is terrible news for a country which had just come out of 30 years of war and suffering . These and similar unfounded allegations of possible terror attacks by persons with Muslim identity have made the innocent Muslims here a suspect community ! That is a very painful reflection on a community that stood against terrorism in this country . Our community suffered tremendously due to its uncompromising stand against LTTE terrorism . Those Tamil speaking Muslims , evicted by the LTTE from the North are still to be resettled in their original lands . The Defence Ministry is fully aware of the many Muslims , who sacrificed their precious lives , while serving in the armed forces , particularly , the Malay Muslims who served in the intelligence wing and got killed by the LTTE . It is clear that some vested interests are using the Sri Lankan media to damage Sri Lanka 's relations with our neighbours , India and Pakistan . Regrettably , the false reports are attempts to muddy the integrity of a respected community of peaceful Muslims here ! I believe that none of these so called intelligence reports published in the media were ever shared officially with the Sri Lankan government , obviously because they were fabrications released for collateral purposes . The Bangladesh Home Minister told the BBC , recently that there is evidence of Israeli agents being behind the killings of innocent Hindu priests in West Bengal ! It is well known that Zionists , the Neo-cons and the arms industry have agendas of their own . They have their agents throughout the world . What is relevant to us is that we need to keep watch not only on the possible ISIS recruits but equally on foreign agents who could be scouting for flash points of conflicts in the country.Let us not forget that the 30 year war squeezed out billions of our wealth to keep the 700 odd arms factories in the West rolling . From January 2008 , the critical year of the war I myself raised in my then capacity as Sri Lanka 's Ambassador to Iran , US $ 675 million in interest free money against oil purchases from Iran , acknowledged by the then government as having played a key role in funding arms purchases that the armed forces at war , were , in urgent need of . In financial terms the war has cost the country a great deal . These arms factories and those manufacturing security equipments will never be closed . The truth is they are having roaring business at our cost ! They will continue to , only if they can engineer conflicts.It is in this background that we urge the Hon. Minister to continue the vital task of monitoring all our borders for foreign agents , some of whom may be working for the arms industry , probably without the knowledge of their governments . They may enter Sri Lanka with dangerous agendas of their masters . I will give two terrible instances that occurred in our great neighbouring country , India.One is the deadly 2008 terror attack in Mumbai , centered around Taj Hotel , also known as 26/11 , India 's 9/11 . The three day massacre left 160 dead , paralysed for months business in India 's largest city and rightfully earned world- wide condemnation . The man who confessed to the US authorities of planning the terror attack and scouting around the location was from Philadelphia in the US . His name is David Coleman Headley , who grew up under his American mother , who had been married for a short time to and later divorced by the Pakistani father , said to be a poet and diplomat . David Coleman Headley is the man who planned the Taj Hotel terrorist assault , having made seven undetected visits to India for the purpose ! He was prosecuted in the US Courts and convicted for his role in India 's three day massacre and is now serving a 35 year prison sentence in the US . The only point that I wish to urge by referring to the Mumbai massacre is that we need to alert our border control for possible external deadly agents of terror , if we are to avoid possible mayhem within our country . Vigilance irrespective of nationalities , ethnicities and faith must be enhanced . The cooperation of all sections of our people must be sought . I am not saying nor am I knowledgeable enough to say , that something is about to happen here . All I am saying is , it had happened in our region and can happen here . The compass for detection must be universal and not merely ethnic or religious oriented . We the Muslims of Sri Lanka must cooperate with the authorities by playing a more pro-active role . The mechanism that needs to be established for such a role is a matter that the community should go into first and discuss with the authorities thereafter.The next case I wish to refer to , is India 's 2008 Ahmedabad bombings , in which bombs had been planted in 21 locations in Ahmedabad in Gujarat , India . Several local TV channels said that they had received an email from a terror outfit called the " Indian Mujahideen " claiming responsibility for the blasts . What is relevant to us tonight is an Associated Press or AP report filed on 29th July 2008 , according to which , the email in which the " Indian Mujahideen " had claimed responsibility for the explosions , which were to occur shortly , had been sent from the computer of an American national named Ken Haywood operating from Bombay . As far as I know there was total silence , thereafter on Ken Haywood 's role in dispatching the advance terror threat . His email predicting terror in Ahmedabad that night turned out to be frighteningly true , with 56 dead and over 200 injured ! We are left wondering who is speaking for whom and whether the US guy is the global voice for the Indian Mujahideen ! Ken Haywood is reportedly living a free man somewhere in the US ! A very important case from the intelligence point of view but appears to have been mishandled ! We have seen similar claims purportedly from Al Qaeda , ISIS and other globally branded terror outfits appearing in the media , claiming responsibility for almost every act of terror , occurring in all corners of the globe ! Co-incidentally we also hear reports predicting terror attacks , mostly quoting unnamed intelligence sources , as if some of them are acting hand in glove with terror outfits . Only intensive investigations by our authorities , wherever Sri Lanka is allegedly linked can reveal the true face of terrorism ! Our intelligence personnel and investigators must be facilitated to travel to any part of the world to join the local investigators of cases in which Sri Lanka is allegedly linked . Let me , before I rap up , refer to one such recent incident , which Sri Lanka failed to investigate.In December last year a 40 year old Israeli arrived at the Bandaranayake International Airport on a fake Iranian passport . Why an Israeli on a fake Iranian passport ? That would be the relevant question any one will raise ! He also had an Israeli passport with his correct picture but with a different name , kept concealed in his baggage . Why did he come prepared to masquerade as an Iranian while in Sri Lanka unless he had some dangerous mission here and perhaps to leave on a different identity ! He had arrived from Mumbai and was detected by the Immigration at Katunayake while attempting to enter Sri Lanka on the forged Iranian passport . The man had committed offences falling under several limbs of Section 45 of the Immigrants and Emigrants Act . He should have been produced before a Magistrate as the Immigration officials do in such cases . The offences carry a minimum sentence of one year to five years in prison and to fines in addition ! The guy should have been questioned by the intelligence authorities and the CID unit of the police which works on a 24hour 365 day operation at the airport . They ought to have elicited valuable information . The man was allowed to go back to Mumbai in the very next flight , without being dealt with for violating our laws ! The troubling question that I wish to raise is , assuming the Israeli man had been cleared on arrival and if he had either himself or contracted for dollars a narcotic addict , to leave some explosive packages near some Temples here and left the Iranian passport close to the sight of the planned explosions , similar to the 21 bombs planted by someone in Ahmedabad and similar to the explosives planted on 7th July 2013 at the world renowned Mahabodhi temple in Buddha Gaya , in Bihar , North India , would that not be the beginning of anti-Muslim riots here ? It is a serious possibility . It has happened elsewhere . It is happening around the world . It is not such a difficult task to those with access to dollars and to explosives . That is why we urge the authorities , all citizens and particularly the Muslims to be vigilant . Incidentally , the Explosives Act comes under the purview of the Defence Ministry . We need to be alert to all possibilities . We can not afford to go home and forget our obligations by our country . I have taken a lot of your valuable time but do allow me to summarise the more essential points . Firstly the armed forces and the Police , to the extent the law permits should comprehensively investigate all reports relating to allegations of terrorism including those published in the media quoting unidentified sources . Secondly intelligence gathering must encompass not only possible ISIS or other terror infiltration but also cover foreign agents who may venture into the country for operations similar to the David Headleys and Ken Haywoods . Thirdly identify dubious intelligence reports planted by vested interests , possibly the agents of the arms industry . Fourthly enhance the need for the country in general and the Muslims in particular to be vigilant for terror related activities , without needlessly exciting fears . Fifthly , Muslims to explore possible areas of cooperation with the authorities to strengthen terror related intelligence gathering and investigations.We thank the Chief Guest Hon. Ruwan Wijewardene , State Minister of Defence and all of you for your patient hearing and the Forum For National Unity Mr. Ameen and his team , for organizing this event.Let me conclude by adding that the views expressed are my own and do not reflect or represent the office that I hold . Thank you.SDG : Working together for our common goodhttp : **36;2879;TOOLONG ... August 2016 @ 7:50 pmThe following is the text of the Lakshman Kadirgamar 2016 Memorial Lecture speech by Norway 's Prime Minister Erna Solberg at the Lakshman Kadirgamar Institute of International Relations and Strategic Studies ( LKIIRSS ) in Colombo on Friday Thank you , for giving me this opportunity to speak about sustainable peace and development at this prestigious institute . The topic is very close to my heart as a co-chair of the UN Secretary-General 's Sustainable Development Goals Advocacy Group and as Prime Minister of Norway . caption id= " attachment204720 " align= " alignright " width= " 200 " caption= " Norwegian Prime Minister Erna Solberg delivering the Lakshman Kadirgamar memorial lecture in Colombo on Friday , 11th anniversary of the assassination of th elate Foreign Minister of Sri Lanka at the hands of the LTTE . Pic courtesy the Ministry of Foreign Affairs " /caption After having spent a few days on holiday in your beautiful country , I have already become very fond of Sri Lanka -- its wonderful people , its fascinating culture and its magnificent scenery . Lakshman Kadirgamar , who gave his name to this institute , lost his life in search of a path to peace . This tragedy tells us how costly and difficult achieving peace can be . Foreign Minister Kadirgamar recognised that significant change was needed to enable Sri Lanka 's communities to live together peacefully . His vision for Sri Lanka was a national identity based on pluralism . He has said that -- and I quote : ' People who live in Sri Lanka are first and foremost Sri Lankans , then we have our race and religion , which is something given to us at birth ' . This institute is keeping Mr. Kadirgamar 's vision for Sri Lanka alive by providing valuable analyses of the country 's strategic interests in a context of changing global realities . Since independence in 1948 , Sri Lanka has consistently shouldered international responsibilities . It has taken active part in UN norm-setting processes and has provided staff to key UN positions , including several Under-Secretary-Generals . Most notably Sri Lanka has contributed thousands of UN peacekeepers to missions around the world . At present , more than a thousand Sri Lankan troops are serving in UN peacekeeping missions in Haiti , South Sudan , and the Central African Republic . These are crucial contributions not only to peace , but also to future prospects for development in countries seriously affected by conflict . At home , Sri Lankan welfare policies have attracted international attention and influenced other countries ' policymaking . Achievements in the areas of health and education were important for Sri Lanka 's progress towards the Millennium Development Goals . Indeed , free education and health services have been provided for decades . These and other achievements provide a good basis for achieving the SDGs . Education , particularly for girls , is a human right as well as the most effective investment in sustainable development . Women 's full and equal participation at all levels and sectors in society is vital , including in politics and business . This will boost economic growth , help ending poverty , improve global health , protect our environment and climate and strengthen peace and stability . As co-chair of UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon 's Sustainable Development Goals Advocacy Group , I am pleased that the development priorities of Sri Lanka are in line with the SDGs . As Prime Minister of Norway , I am also pleased that these priorities shape our bilateral development cooperation . Key goals in this respect include : SDG 13 on climate action ; SDG 14 on conservation of the oceans ; SDG 16 on peace and justice ; SDG 5 on gender equality ; and SDG 7 on affordable and clean energy . First of all , I would like to share my thoughts about why and how the SDGs are a roadmap to the future we all want . I see the set of SDGs as the main track -- not a side track -- for addressing the root causes of poverty , conflict , violent extremism , refugee crises , youth unemployment , forced migration and global warming . These economic , social and environmental problems affect all of us , regardless of where we live -- or how we make a living . When it comes to achieving sustainable development all countries are developing countries . We all need to see the link between the long-term work to achieve the SDGs and the comprehensive action needed to address what is broken in our world . Our aim is to leave no one behind as we make progress towards the SDGs . Why is the principle of leaving no one behind so important ? Nelson Mandela has put it best -- and I quote : ' As long as poverty , injustice and gross inequality exist in our world , none of us can truly rest . ' Eradicating extreme poverty , ensuring mothers and children do not die from avoidable complications during childbirth , making sure that everyone is nourished , and gets a quality education -- all this is our common responsibility . So leaving no one behind is the right motto for our efforts . It is also a smart motto in our highly interdependent world . If we are to achieve lasting peace , stop forced migration , fight pandemics and stop harmful climate change anywhere in the world , our common SDG efforts must apply everywhere in the world . This is why we will not leave fragile and marginalised areas and populations behind . We know from the MDG campaign that reaching the most marginalised is difficult . This is mainly due to problems of access and high costs . It is often hard to reach people trapped in areas of crisis and conflict for obvious reasons of safety . It is costly because a good deal of infrastructure has to be built from scratch in the poorest and most marginalised areas of the world . This means that people living in these areas miss out on virtually all the development taking place elsewhere in the world , and that they do not enjoy even the most basic rights . However , this should be taken as a challenge -- not a discouragement . If it takes preventing and stopping wars -- if it takes building basic infrastructure from scratch -- to reach the most vulnerable , marginalised and destitute , we are going to do just that . We are going to do it for our common good . The SDGs are universal . We all own these goals -- and we can only achieve them together . That means that we need a strong sense of ownership , able leadership and innovative public partnerships at all levels . Ownership is essential . It is human nature to care about what you own . Besides , ownership of all the goals -- not just by leaders , but by everyone -- is crucial if we are to mobilise the extra effort required . There are many good examples of building SDG ownership , such as the SDG consultation processes with relevant stakeholders around the world . These should continue . Awareness and knowledge are essential for ownership . In Norway , the SDGs are to be included in our school curriculums . Ensuring free media is also an important part of our efforts . The business sector too is taking ownership of the SDGs , as a growing number of companies align their business strategies with the goals . I have learnt for instance that the Sri Lankan textile industry has initiated energy efficiency efforts . Today , and every day until the goals are achieved , we must take concrete steps to make the world more sustainable . This requires leadership in all countries and at all levels of society . There are already several examples of leadership within the private sector . Now political leaders must cultivate political will . And they must translate political will into legislation , policies and concrete plans . Then we must finance and implement the plans . Financing sustainable development requires domestic revenue generation combined with good management of existing resources and improved tax structures that eliminate tax havens . This is not only a question of global leadership ; it is also a question of national and local leadership . At the same time it is a question of international solidarity . International development aid will be needed in the most vulnerable areas of the world to ensure that no one is left behind . The 17 goals are interconnected , and many of them require cooperation across national borders . That means that we will fail or succeed together . In many areas , business as usual will not do . We must build new and innovative partnerships . Governments , businesses , civil society organisations and academia must work together to find efficient , sustainable solutions locally , nationally and globally . The best-known example of an international , cross-sectoral partnership is probably GAVI , the Vaccine Alliance . GAVI was important for the success of the Millennium Development Goals . Let us find inspiration in the Vaccine Alliance as we form partnerships based on the new goals . For example , Sri Lanka and Norway could work together through our fisheries cooperation on sustainable use of marine resources ( SDG 14 ) . We hope that the Norwegian funded research vessel Fridtjof Nansen will visit Sri Lankan waters next year to do a stock assessment . I believe equity in education is the key to unlocking opportunities for everybody to enjoy a good life . Worldwide , 37 million children and adolescents are out of school due to crises and conflicts . In Syria , for example , it is clear that the international community has done too little too late . School provides a sense of normality and hope , and helps build skills that give young people opportunities for the future . It will be even more challenging to build inclusive and sustainable societies if children and young people are denied an education . The main responsibility for education rests with national governments . Domestic resource mobilisation is , therefore , crucial . At the same time , aid will continue to play a role , especially in the poorest countries , in fragile situations and for marginalised groups . When my Government took office almost three years ago , we made education the top priority in Norway 's development policy . We are in the process of doubling aid for education over a four-year period , with particular focus on girls ' education , quality and learning outcomes , vocational training , and education in emergencies and protracted crises . We have chosen a broad and comprehensive approach , using a variety of channels and partners . We want to spur action at the global , national and local level . Norway is a strong supporter of multilateral institutions including UNICEF and UNESCO . We are doubling our support to the Global Partnership for Education . A substantial part of our funding is also channelled through civil society . It is important to build accountability and engagement at the community level , and local NGOs have a key role to play , involving parents and local communities . The downward trend in aid for education over the past years must be reversed . We need a renewed and compelling investment case for education . And we need a financing pathway for achieving universal access to quality education . This is why I initiated the International Commission on Financing Global Education Opportunities , together with UNESCO General Director Irina Bokova and the Presidents of Chile , Indonesia and Malawi . The Commission was established last summer and is chaired by the UN Special Envoy for Global Education , Gordon Brown . In September , the commission will submit its report to the UN Secretary-General who has promised that he will act upon its recommendations . I have high hopes that this report will mobilise greater political will and more financial resources . Reaching SDG 4 -- and the other goals -- will be a challenge . But the new development agenda also offers a unique opportunity . For the first time in history , we can succeed in providing quality education for all children and young people . Sri Lanka has achieved a literacy rate of more than 92% , gender parity in education , and has put an end to disparity in school enrolment . Here you are ahead of other countries in the region , and can lead the way . Turning now to health , Norway 's investments in global health in 2016 will amount to 365 million US dollars . Our two main funding channels are GAVI ( the Vaccine Alliance ) and the Global Fund to Fight Aids Tuberculosis and Malaria . Both organisations are increasing their efforts and resources to help those who are hardest to reach , in line with the principle of leaving no one behind . In conclusion , I would like to underline that the Sustainable Development Goals are not just a means of fixing what is broken in our world ; they will put the world on a new , sustainable path . It will take a lot of effort to achieve the goals , but this is our generation 's most important task . If we put our minds and resources to it , we can eradicate extreme poverty by 2030 . So let us get to work . In Norway , Sri Lanka -- all over the world . <p> A topic relevant today In her Vote of Thanks , Suganthie Kadirgamar , the late minister 's widow , said the Norwegian Prime Minister 's lecture was a relevant issue in today 's world that deserved more attention and added that her visit was part of a continuing pattern of cooperation between Sri Lanka and Norway.She referred to an event in Oslo in December , 2013 jointly organised by the Norwegian Foreign Ministry and the Norwegian Peace-building Resource Centre at the Nobel Institute on the subject of ' Democracy , Sovereignty and Terror : Lessons from Sri Lanka on Conflict Resolution ' . She said that seminar was a fitting remembrance of the late Sri Lankan Foreign Minister and it discussed conflict resolution and peacebuilding with reference to the thinking of her late husband . " It is well known that negotiating and implementing ceasefires in armed conflicts is inherently difficult ; and it is no secret that Lakshman had criticisms of the 2002 Ceasefire Agreement on Sri Lanka , which was negotiated with Norwegian facilitation . I greatly appreciate the ways in which Norway showed readiness later on to reflect on its experience in Sri Lanka . This was evident at that seminar in Oslo three years ago . The deliberations revolved around the Sri Lankan conflict , emphasising the difficulty of addressing other people 's problems ; of third-party involvement in local insurgencies , especially when there is a demand for devolution of power and even a demand for a separate state , " she said . She thanked the incumbent Foreign Minister Mangala Samaraweera and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for organising the Memorial Lecture . <p> Three distinctive features inherent in Buddhismhttp : **32;2917;TOOLONG ... August 2016 @ 7:46 pmThe Buddha was an extremely intelligent human being with an enlightened wisdom above others . He lived an ordinary life with his disciples and preached to the intellectuals as well as the ordinary people on the reality of worldly things . The Buddha discovered the cause of suffering and how to escape from suffering . In his first sermon , the Buddha spoke of two extremes to be avoided ; that of devotion to the pleasures of sense and that of self-mortification , both of which were described as unworthy and unprofitable . Avoiding the two extremes , he said he had gained knowledge of the middle path or Madhyama Prathipadawa which led to enlightenment . In his public address in New York in 1925 , Anagarika Dharmapala had eloquently summarised the message of the Buddha as follows . " The Buddha Dhamma encompasses the power of universal love , meaninglessness of prayer , rituals and sacrifices , evolutionary nature of the cosmic process , freedom of thought , the law of universal change , the supremacy of the law of righteousness , happiness punctuated renunciation , identifying ignorance as the prime cause of human misery and that miseries can be annihilated by the power of wisdom and altruistic service for the good of humanity " . Today , we are living in an age of science ; an age where man is inclined to accept the truth of anything by observation and experiment rather than by mere belief . With the recent advances in science man is becoming more rationalistic in his outlook and blind belief is fast disappearing . The truth is the same in any age , even if the methods of understanding vary . When we consider the evidence in the light of modern science , we shall find that the results achieved have been the same . For instance the Buddhist view of mind and matter phenomena is that they are what the Buddha called the illusory nature of material phenomena . The uniqueness of Buddhism is reflected in three distinctive features inherent in the teaching of the Buddha . Firstly , it is not an orthodox and regimented religion but a way of life which is free and open . Secondly , it is an ethical and moral system which guarantees freedom of thought and action . Thirdly , its , rationality lends itself to logic , examination and inquiry . Buddhism a free and open way of life A religion is defined as a system of faith and worship which recognises omnipresent superhuman controlling power and existence of a personal god entitled to unquestionable obedience . Accordingly , the hallmarks of a religion are the existence of a personal God , an unchanging and immortal soul and the necessity for the salvation of the latter by the former . These three factors are entirely absent in Buddhism ; hence Buddhism can not be classified as a religion . In essence , Buddhism is a way of life which paves the way for man to be righteous and noble while maintaining human dignity and intelligence and eventually attain final liberation through mental purity . Buddhism is unique among the different religions of the world in having no criteria for orthodoxy . It has no Pope , no dogma which must be believed and no Bible in the Christian sense of inspired revelation . It has no equivalent of Christian baptism nor can anyone be expelled from its fold . In brief a " Buddhist is as a Buddhist does . " Buddhism as it exists today may not be absolutely authentic or accurate as the teachings were first committed to writing some four hundred years after the passing away of the Buddha . Since then for well over two thousand years the doctrine would have undergone considerable changes in the process of interpretation and communication . However , the canon as it is taught today is rational , coherent as a whole and sufficient to inspire a large proportion of mankind . It is subjective in its analysis of the nature of life in particular of the cause of suffering . Also , it is subjective in the way it sets out for the removal of the root causes of suffering . It is above all supremely self-reliant , relying upon no outside power , divine or human to save the individual from the consequences of his own hatred , lust and illusion . The purpose of Buddhism is the realisation of the consciousness known as Enlightenment and the eradication of suffering through the process of extinction of its causes . The Buddha attained enlightenment and taught the means leading to the ultimate realisation of reality to all mankind . In the field of religion this path is unique for it has no dogma ; everything is open to inquiry and analysis and indeed as open as any scientific thesis offered to the world today . As Buddhism brings good results without the dependence on mere belief or imagination then let us not waste time splitting hairs about it . Freedom of thought and action According to Venerable Narada Maha Thera , one of the distinctive features inherent in Buddhism is that it makes man stand on his own feet and rouses his self-confidence and energy . The Buddha denied the fundamental teachings of most religions which incidentally are based on the fear of the unknown and on blind faith . He expounded a rational and tolerant teaching that could be verified by personal experience . It is founded on the fundamental truth that men are born free to exercise their reason freely with regard to all aspects of mind and matter . Hence , it is to the glory of the Buddha that he allowed his followers freedom boundless as the free sky above which makes every man 's own reason the ultimate standard of his belief . The Buddha has given us one of the best ways of solving problems which is to think and think for ourselves and to think originally and not to be governed by what goes on around us . This is what makes us true practising Buddhists ; an exciting experience in life indeed ! The fact of the matter is that no one can grant deliverance to another who merely pleads or begs for it . Others may lend a helping hand indirectly ; but nevertheless the highest freedom is attained only through self-realisation and self-awakening to the truth . Self-realisation can come only to one who is free to think out one 's own problems without let or hindrance . Each individual should make the appropriate effort and break the shackles that have kept him in bondage thus winning freedom from bonds of existence by perseverance , self-exertion and insight and not through prayers and petitions to a supreme being . In the Kalama Sutta addressing the Kalamas the Buddha had admonished them as follows . " Do not accept anything on mere hearsay . Do not accept anything on mere tradition . Do not accept anything on account of rumours . Do not accept anything because it accords with your scriptures . Do not accept anything by mere supposition . Do not accept anything by mere inference . Do not accept anything because it agrees with your preconceived notions . Do not accept anything because the ascetic is respected by us . The Buddha had admonished that purity and impurity are both dependent on oneself . No one can purify another . This fact is further clarified in verse 165 of the Dhammapada as follows . " By oneself is evil done . By oneself is evil defied . By oneself alone is evil avoided . By oneself alone is one purified . " This concept is further elucidated in verse 103 of the Dhammapada as follows . " Though one may conquer a million men in the battlefield , yet he is the noblest victor who has conquered himself " . It is through the practice of the Dhamma that the real Buddha can be known . In fact the Buddha has said that " he who sees the Dhamma sees me " . The Dhamma is not a set of teachings for us to blindly accept and believe in but to try out and see for ourselves . Thus in summary , Buddhism is always a question of knowing and seeing , and not that of believing . The teaching of the Buddha is qualified as " Ehi -- Passiko " ; inviting you to come and see , but not to come and believe . Rationality is the Hallmark of Buddhism Buddhism promotes rationality . It is not only a way of life but also a way of logic ; of reasoning and a way of seeing a given situation from all angles . The Buddha used the word " Yonisomanasikara " which means " concentration from the very origin . " " Yoniso " means from the origin . " Manasikara " means concentration , insightful investigation , thinking and analysis . Accordingly , we should investigate right from the bottom ; right from the beginning . Therefore , a good Buddhist is one who engages in the act of " Yonisomanasikara " all the time , on all the issues . There is a tendency to compare and contrast Buddhism as a philosophy . Philosophy is the search for knowledge ; especially delving into the nature and meaning of existence . Dhamma is not mere philosophy , because philosophy is empirical by nature . The Dhamma is not founded on mere views or theories . Buddha 's doctrine is not dry philosophy for people to argue about using cold intellect . It is a methodical system for self-development centred on love , selflessness and compassion . In Buddhism , there are three types of bias . They are desire , ill will and skeptical doubt . Desire makes one see only what one wants to see . It bends the truth to fit one 's preferences . Ill will makes one blind to whatever is disturbing or disconcerting to one 's views . Also , it distorts the truth by denial . Sceptical doubt stubbornly refuses to accept those truths which are not only plainly valid but also brazenly obvious because they fall outside of one 's comforting world view . The Buddha Dhamma strongly urges the avoidance of extreme views and prejudices as they would hold one as a captive . On the other hand a rational person would remain unencumbered and free . The whole thrust of the Dhamma is to release a person from bondage caused by mundane thoughts and views . The Buddha has stated that each person is his own saviour ; " attahi attano natho . " Invariably , one 's freedom would depend only on the thoughts one entertains . Furthermore , rationality embedded in Buddhism encourages democratic ideas and institutions . The Buddha made the Sangha ; the community of monks , an absolutely democratic institution . He delivered the Dhamma freely and equally to all . He kept nothing back and never wished to extract from his disciples blind and submissive faith in him or his teachings . He insisted on discriminative examination and intelligent inquiry . A Buddhist treatise on logic has further explained this attitude of true inquiry as follows . " As the wise test gold by burning , by cutting and rubbing it ; so are you to accept my words after examining them and not merely out of regard for me . " Indeed , Buddhism is the only great religion of the world that is consciously and frankly based on a systematic and rational analysis of problems of life and of the way to its solutions . In fact , the Buddha has been compared to a physician who makes a diagnosis of the illness , its causes and decides on the antidotes and the remedies and then proceeds to treat the patient systematically and with great precision . In the same manner the Buddha has taught the Four Noble Truths namely ; the realization of the nature of suffering , the cause of suffering and the method to bring an end to the suffering and achieve liberation . Accordingly , when a person realizes the Four Noble Truths he takes steps to overcome his unhappiness or suffering by reducing his craving and aversion which are the root causes of all evil actions . ( The writer was secretary to President Ranasinghe Premadasa ) Collectors ' Desk continues support for Lankan arthttp : **37;2951;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 5:51 pmCollectors ' Desk , organised by ARTRA Magazine &amp; Saskia Fernando Gallery in collaboration with The Residences at One Galle Face , Shangrila Hotel &amp; Resorts , is a series of curated art events that takes place in the form of quarterly art talks , panels , tours and presentations by eminent international and local professionals in the field of art . The invitee-only event caters to an audience interested in impacting the growth of the local art scene . The third edition of Collectors ' Desk will see a discussion on contemporary Sri Lankan art and recent developments internationally by Azara Jaleel , Founder &amp; Editor of ARTRA Magazine and Saskia Fernando , Founder of Saskia Fernando Gallery and Art Space Sri Lanka . The event will take place on September 30 at One Galle Face followed by an exhibition and tour of curated works of art by leading contemporary artists Ruwan Prasanna , Nadia Haji Omar , Prageeth Manohansa and Priyantha Udagedara displayed in the show apartment of The Residences at One Galle Face , Shangri La Hotels &amp; Resorts . With the emergence of the Sri Lankan contemporary art scene over the past few years , it has become pertinent that information focusing on the subjects of art and design appreciation and investment are communicated to collectors and professionals from all industries in Sri Lanka . The growth of any art scene takes place alongside economic development and it is essential that the corporate sector as well as investor and diplomatic communities sustain the local art scene 's growth.The Edward Lear Poetry award 2017http : **36;2990;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 5:50 pmBarely one year old in the hospitality industry -- the Owl and the Pussycat hotel 's participation in the Fairway Galle Literary Festival ( FGLF ) in January this year prompted owners Shane Thantirimudalige and Reita Gadkari to initiate the Edward Lear Prize for Poetry . Open to Sri Lankans between the ages of 18 and 30 years for their own creation of verse , it carries some generous cash prizes . The first prize is Rs. 250 , 000 , the secod -- Rs.150,000 and the third -- Rs. 75 , 000 . Gadkari became the Chair of this exercise inspired by her favourite childhood poem The Owl and the Pussycat . Thantirimudalige who has been involved with the Literary Festival for some years felt the importance of promoting English poetry in Sri Lanka . The Edward Lear Poetry award 2017 is open for entries till October 31 , 2016 . Entry forms must be retrieved from their website specially created for the competition . **32;3028;TOOLONG Entries should be an unpublished single poem or a collection of up to 5 poems , each poem should have a minimum of 200 words and the total of 5 poems should not exceed 1200 words . The theme should follow in the vein of Edward Lear 's Nonsensical Poems , bringing about a feeling of lightness and optimism to the world in which we live.Only the first 200 entries will be accepted . For further information email **36;3062;TOOLONG Light of Asia and Dhamma Abidhamma examination prize givinghttp : **34;3100;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 5:48 pmThe Light of Asia and Dhamma Abidhamma examination 2015 prizegiving was held on September 17 at the Colombo YMBA . Chairman of Sri Lanka Insurance Corporation Hemaka Amarasuriya was the Chief Guest . The Light of Asia competition was won by Rukshana Sattambi of International School , Galle and the Best English Dhamma School award was won by the Samadhi Dhamma School , Wattarantenna , Kandy . Ven . Wehigala Dhammasiddhi Thera received this award . 152nd birth anniversary of the Anagarikahttp : **31;3136;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 5:47 pmA commemorative meeting to mark the 152nd birth anniversary of the Anagarika Dharmapala was held at the Buddhagaya Centre on September 17 . The Chief guest for the occasion was the President of the Indian Mahabodhi Society Prasanna Jayasuriya . Also present was the Chief Incumbent at Buddhagaya Ven . Kahatagollawe Medhankara Thera . One Country and One People ' in Sinhala and Tamilhttp : **35;3169;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 5:45 pm'Celebrating multi-culturalism and diversity on World Children 's Day ' , the Sunshine Charity will launch the Sinhala and Tamil versions of the book , ' One Country and One People ' written by Sharadha de Saram on Saturday , October 1 , at 3 p.m. at the Sri Lanka Foundation Institute . The Sunshine Charity together with Sri Lanka 's largest grassroots movement , the Sarvodaya Shramadana Movement launched the initiative , ' Investing in Children ' based on the story , ' One Country and One People ' . The story , originally written in English conveys creatively and positively the island 's colourful cultural fabric that weaves our nation 's people -- from the colonial period of the Portuguese , Dutch and British to Independence of the country and what followed . The story goes on to explain the different ethnic groups that live on the island and the different faiths practised . Ganadevi Temple festivalhttp : **32;3206;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 5:44 pmThe annual festival of the Ganadevi Kovil at Veluwana Terrace in Dematagoda was held with the participation of a large number of devotees . Western Provincial Councillor Jayantha Silva was the chief guest . Sir Richard Jolly to deliver Gamani Corea Foundation lecturehttp : **33;3240;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 5:43 pmSir Richard Jolly , former Deputy Executive Director of UNICEF , Special Adviser to the Administrator of the United Nations Development Programme ( 1996 to 2000 ) and Principal Coordinator of the widely-acclaimed Human Development Report , will be visiting Sri Lanka from September 27 to October 2 at the invitation of the Gamani Corea Foundation . He is currently Honorary Professor and Research Associate of the Institute of Development Studies of the University of Sussex where he was the Director before joining UNICEF . He will deliver a Lecture at the invitation of the Gamani Corea Foundation , on " Development : Can Sri Lanka be a model for implementing the SDGs ( Sustainable Development Goals ) ? " on September 28 , at 5 p.m at the BMICH Committee Room D. On September 29 , he will address a Seminar at the Faculty of Arts and Humanities of the University of Peradeniya.Triple celebration to mark Lanka-China relationshttp : **31;3275;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 5:42 pmSri Lanka China Society ( SLCS ) with the guidance and assistance from the Chinese embassy and in collaboration with other friendship organisations will celebrate the 67th anniversary of the founding of the People 's Republic of China . The ceremony is also held to mark the 35th anniversary of the setting up of Sri Lanka China Society in 1981 and the 60th anniversary of establishing diplomatic relations between Sri Lanka and China , making the event a " Triple Celebration " . The ceremony will start at 4 pm on September 29 at the committee room " A " of the BMICH . President Mithripala Sirisena will be the chief guest while the ambassador for People 's Republic of China will be the guest of honour . Winners of an interschool essay competition held in connection with the celebrations will receive their awards . An SLCS souvenir containing information about China and its relations with Sri Lanka will be presented to the President and the ambassador and distributed among the invitees , says SLCS President Amaradasa Gunawardana.Criminal law made easy for laypeople and law studentshttp : **32;3308;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 5:37 pmReviewed by Dr. W. D. Rodrigo Dag Hammarskjold once said " The more we do , the more we can do ; the busier we are the more leisure we have " . My colleague Additional Solicitor General President 's Counsel Sarath Jayamanne has proved the truth of this epigram by taking time off his extremely busy schedule of work to make an excellent contribution to Sri Lanka 's legal literature . I enjoyed reading his book ' Crime Recreated ' ( Yali Mewena Aparadhayak ) several times from cover to cover . It reminds me of a Chinese proverb : " If you are planning for a year , sow rice ; if you are planning for a decade , plant trees ; if you are planning for a lifetime , educate people " . Sarath is always planning for a lifetime . He has educated thousands of students at Sri Lanka Law College and the Colombo University 's Law Faculty . Criminal Procedure is his pet subject and he is a lecturer par excellence . This time he has decided to educate and share his experience not only with his students but also with the general public . I believe that it is for that reason that he has published his work ' Crime Recreated ' in simple Sinhala , avoiding the jargon as much as possible . As Nelson Mandela , former President of South Africa and 1993 Nobel Peace Prize Laureate has said , " The education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world " . It appears to me from the contents of this work and the way in which it has been presented that the author has used the weapon skillfully . By dedicating his work to his teacher , Justice F. N. D. Jayasuriya , Sarath has set an example and taught a lesson to the public in general and to the student population in particular on the value of being grateful to teachers . I know personally that for many people law , particularly criminal law , is a boring subject though they consider it as important . Sarath is a great teacher who seems to know both sides of this paradox . Hence he has imparted basic knowledge on various important aspects of criminal justice including the ingredients of a crime , criminal procedure and evidence in the form of a drama . The author has competently used landmark cases such as the Justice Sarath Ambepitiya murder case to illustrate the points he makes . In doing so he has given the book the appearance of a script of a drama in such a way that the reader does not feel that he is reading a law book . The book is divided into 26 sections with titles such as ' criminal law ' , ' evidence ' , ' circumstantial evidence ' , ' expert evidence ' , ' finger prints ' and ' the role of the lawyers and the judges ' -- each sub divided into shorter sections . caption id= " attachment209570 " align= " alignleft " width= " 200 " caption= " Additional Solicitor General Sarath Jayamanne " /caption The incidence of crime has increased in Sri Lanka causing many social problems . Most of the offenders are not aware of the gravity of their criminal conduct until they are convicted and punished . As the law presumes every person to know the law , ignorance of the law is not an excuse . This is unfair by most of the citizens as there is no mechanism to impart an elementary knowledge of the law to every person . For this reason , President 's Counsel Sarath Jayamanne 's ' Crime Recreated ' ( Yali Mewena Aparadhayak ) is of immense value in educating lawyers , law students and more importantly lay persons who have had no formal education in law . The book is an excellent contribution to an understanding of the application of criminal law and evidence to complex issues in criminal justice . The author 's admirable methodology can be demonstrated by his discussion of these issues . This is a valuable book which I strongly recommend for those interested in criminal law , criminal procedure and evidence . I wish the author every success in his future endeavours . ( The writer is a President 's Counsel and a Former Principal of Sri Lanka Law College ) Tilak 's exhibition ends todayhttp : **35;3342;TOOLONG ... September 2016 @ 5:01 pmProviding a fascinating glimpse into the work of a designer and architect whose uniquely Sri Lankan inspiration has taken many forms over the course of five decades , the exhibition ' Tilak Samarawickrema- 50 Year Retrospective- Drawings , sculpture and animation ' opened at the Lionel Wendt Gallery on Thursday . The exhibition is on today as well . Being exhibited for the first time are Samarawickrema 's striking larger than life wire scultures which occupy one wall of the gallery . Pix by Anuradha BandaraRememberinghttp : //www.sundaytimes.lk/1 ... September 2016 @ 2:48 pmDr . Maria Montessori To mark the 146th birth anniversary of Dr. Maria Montessori , the revolutionary educationist there will be a Eucharist Celebration at St. Bridget 's Auditorium on Tuesday , September 27 at 2 p.m . The Celebrant will be Rev. Fr . Anslem Shiran Fernando 
@@33244166 <h> Five days of freedom - the breakout from Gilboa - EDITORIAL <p> On September 5 , six Palestinian prisoners held captive in an Israeli maximum prison -- the Gilboa prison - broke out in speculator fashion . The men had dug a hole in the floor of their cell , then crawled through a cavity and tunneled their way beneath the outer wall . <p> The men are believed to have made their way out of the cell they shared by digging a hole in the floor of their bathroom . The Jerusalem Post reported that they had used a spoon which they hid behind a poster , as the tool to dig their way out . The jailbreak shocked Israel and its security establishment , which boasts its maximum-security prisons are unbreakable . <p> In Palestine , where millions have been displaced by numerous wars waged by Israel , live in refugee camps while thousands of othershave died as a result of the fighting and many others rot in Israeli jails , the prison escapees are looked on as political prisoners/prisoners of conscience and are being hailed as heroes . Israel holds some 4,750 Palestinians across dozens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and 550 administrative detainees , according to the prisoners ' rights group Addameer . Qadura Fares , head of the Palestinian Prisoners ' Club , described the daring escape as a victory against the Israeli security system . <p> " We are happy with this escape . We have called for the necessity of liberating all Palestinian prisoners . If the prisoners can free themselves , this is a great thing , " Fares , who spent 18 years in prison , told Al Jazeera . The six escapees , according to the BBC included Zakaria Zubeidi , a former commander of the Palestinian militant group Al-Aqsa Martyrs ' Brigade in the West Bank city of Jenin , as well as five members of Islamic Jihad . Four of the Islamic Jihad members were serving life sentences , while the fifth had been held without charge for two years under a so-called administrative detention order . <p> The administrative detention order is very much like our own Prevention of Terrorism Act ( PTA ) . Under the PTA a suspect may be held in custody at the whim of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ framed . <p> Recently , a sitting Cabinet Minister - the son of a past President - who was held in custody during the past regime , revealed in parliament that some of the Tamil prisoners being held under PTA regulations had been in custody , for over 25-years without charges being filed against them . The Minister called for the prisoners to be charged or released . <p> According to media reports , at least four of the Palestinian escapees were serving life imprisonment and had been in custody for over two years . In their own minds and in reality , they had no hope of release , given the Israeli judicial system which is heavily weighted against Palestinians . With a lifetime of imprisonment staring them in the face , imprisoned Palestinians with time on their hands have begun devising ingenious long-term methods to secure their freedom , such as using simple tools like a spoon to tunnel their way to freedom ! It took eight months of continuous day-and-night digging for the escapees to get out of prison . <p> But free themselves they did . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , where for the first time Israeli citizens had to run for cover from shells fired by Gaza 's ruling party -- Hamas ' - pierced the complacency of Israel , its leaders thought they had brought the Palestinians to heel and removed them as an obstacle to their expansionist programmes . <p> As Hamas spokesperson , Fawzi Barhoum put it , the escape showed " that the struggle for freedom with the occupier is continuous and extended , inside prisons and outside to extract this right " . After five days , four of the prisoners were captured . Speaking after his capture Zakaria Zubaid according to sources within Fatah said the recapture did not matter ... we enjoyed five days of complete freedom , we walked freely in our land , spoke to our brothers , ate the fruit of our land and drank its waters . We are satisfied . We have shown whatever the odds we can achieve the goals and our land will soon be free . <p> Writing in the aftermath of the May ' 21 war in Gaza , the ' International Crisis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a political strategy that entailed fragmenting the West Bank , encircling East Jerusalem from without and settling it with Jews from within , plus fighting Hamas in Gaza every few years , has failed . For there to be peace , Israel has to revert to its original borders as set forth in the partition plan of 1947 . It also needs to face the deep rifts within its own society caused by institutionalized discrimination against its Palestinian citizens . 
