<p> An Israeli airstrike has killed at least five people outside a food distribution centre in Gaza . The dead include four children . <p> The victims were gathered outside shelters in the densely packed Nuseirat refugee camp , which is located in the central Gaza Strip . <p> According to Associated Press , the bodies were rushed to the Awda Hospital confirmed where the death of the civilians was confirmed . The hospital said 15 others -- mostly children , also suffered injuries in the said attack . <p> There was no immediate comment from the Israeli forces , who have faced severe criticism over the mounting civilian casualities . The recent war which followed the Hamas-led attacks on southern Israel on October 7 , 2023 , in which 1200 people were killed , has resulted in immense destruction in the region , reported PTI . <p> It has led to a reported 44,500 deaths of Palestinians . Majority of those who lost their lives are women and children . The number of civilian casualties , according to Gaza 's Health Ministry , continues to climb as Israeli forces pursue their military objectives . <p> Hamas had taken around 250 Isreali hostages . It is believed that at least a third of the hostages may have died , ABC News reported . The Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) say that they have killed over 17,000 militants in Gaza . But they have not provided concrete evidence to support their claim . Palestinian authorities on the other hand insist the majority of the dead are civilians . <p> Crisis in West Asia <p> Meanwhile , the situation in Lebanon remains tense . Despite a ceasefire between Israel and Lebanon , reports suggest that several Israeli drone and artillery strikes took place in the region on Tuesday . <p> These strikes killed a shepherd in southern Lebanon . It highlights the continuing volatility of the area . Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu vowed to continue striking Hezbollah with an " iron fist " in response to what Israel perceives as violations of the ceasefire , reported by ABC News.U.S. and International Reactions . <p> The United States has been a staunch supporter of Israel , particularly during this latest escalation . President-elect Donald Trump recently commented on the unfolding situation . He voiced strong support for Israel 's military operations and condemned actions from groups like Hamas and Hezbollah , as per report . <p> Trump 's remarks also extended to the broader Middle Eastern tensions , where he characterised Iran 's involvement as a major destabilising factor . He reaffirmed his stance on the need for robust action to dismantle " terrorist " groups that threaten Israeli and U.S. interests in the region . <p> He warned on Monday that there would be " hell to pay " in the Middle East if hostages held in the Gaza Strip were not released before his inauguration on January 20 . <p> " ( If ) the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " he has been quoted by different reports as saying . <p> According to media reports , " Trump emphasised that a strong response was necessary not only to counter Hamas but also to deal with Hezbollah . He argued that the U.S. will continue to support Israel 's right to defend itself . Trump alluded to the possibility of increased American military involvement if the situation escalates further . " <p> Amid the military campaigns , the humanitarian situation in Gaza continues to deteriorate . The war has displaced more than 90% of Gaza 's population . It has left millions without access to basic necessities like food , water and medical care . <p> The international community , including the United Nations , has called for greater efforts to deliver aid and mediate ceasefires to alleviate civilian suffering .
