<h> The ICC issued arrest warrants for Benjamin Netanyahu and former defense minister Yoav Gallant for war crimes in Gaza , involving deprivation of essential resources and violence against civilians . Despite international backlash and support from allies like the US , Netanyahu faces potential arrest in ICC-member countries . <p> No , not yet <h> Ateesh Tankha <p> The writer is founder-CEO , ALSOWISE Content Solutions <p> After much hesitation , deliberation and circumspection , the charges were written . On November 21 , International Criminal Court ( ICC ) issued arrest warrants for Benjamin Netanyahu and former Israeli defence minister Yoav Gallant for ' war crimes ' that ' intentionally and knowingly deprived the civilian population in Gaza of objects indispensable to their survival ' , including food , water , medicine , fuel and electricity , between October 8 , 2023 , and May 20 , 2024 . ICC also found that each bore ' criminal responsibility as civilian superiors for the war crime of intentionally directing an attack against the civilian population ' resulting in torture , violence , murder and rape by Israel 's occupation forces . <p> Israel 's immediate response was to decry the anti-semite bogey that constantly bears false witness of wrongdoing despite the nation 's professions of innocence . Netanyahu 's office then preposterously compared his fate to that of Alfred Dreyfus , the Alsatian-Jewish artillery officer wrongfully accused of espionage by France in 1894 . America 's response was a study in unwavering support . Joe Biden called ICC 's warrant ' outrageous ' , stating there was ' no equivalence between Hamas and Israel ' . In this , he is right . <p> Hamas is a Palestinian nationalist organisation that has governed the Gaza Strip since 2007 . It has a militant wing , but does not command an army that can enter into formal combat . Israel , however , is a nation with a well- appointed military force , which can both go to war , and operate as an army of occupation . <p> Any unprovoked violence that Hamas undertakes , therefore , can only be counted as an act of insurgency , the perpetrators of which should be dealt with appropriately . But punitive action ca n't take the form of waging total and indiscriminate war against a people whose right to exist as an independent nation is denied and obstructed by Israel . <p> And , yet , after Hamas killed 1,189 people , and took 251 others hostage , on Oct 7 , 2023 - an unconscionable act of terror born of decades of suppression - Israel , instead of initiating a targeted assault against the culprits , unleashed an orgy of violence against Gaza , an enclave under blockade . Citing the right to defend itself , Israel 's belligerence has resulted in the death of tens of thousands of civilians , displacement of lakhs more , Dresden-style destruction of urban infrastructure , and uninterrupted misery to the hapless survivors who continue to suffer every form of tribulation and privation , including forced starvation . <p> In Exterminate All the Brutes : Gaza 2009 , Noam Chomsky correctly opined that while ' a state has the right to defend itself against criminal attacks ... it does not follow that it has a right to defend itself by force ' . Such a doctrine would have allowed Germany ' to justify Kristallnacht on the basis of Herschel Grynszpan 's assassination of a German embassy official in Paris ' , or excused British incursions into Ireland in response to IRA hostility in Belfast . German atrocities were condemned . Britain , fearing world censure , despite engaging in ruthless conflict , managed uneasily to maintain some sense of proportionality . <p> By contrast , Netanyahu and Gallant have outdone many earlier political psychopaths . Slobodan MiloSevic , former Yugoslav president , and his co-defendants , indicted in 1999 for displacing 7.4 lakh Kosovo Albanians and murdering 340 others , ca n't hold a candle to them . Protected from adverse global criticism by American veto and sanction power , the pair advertised their intention early on to undertake ' a complete siege of Gaza ' where they were ' fighting human animals ' , whose grisly fate was sealed . In the last 8 decades , men have been sent to the gallows or to lifetime imprisonment for less . <p> As things stand , Netanyahu can be arrested upon arrival in any of the 124 countries that are part of the ICC-founding Rome Statute . But scepticism prevails because some powerful countries like the US , Russia , China and India have not signed and ratified the court 's authority . And even as France cops out by stating that Netanyahu ca n't be arrested on French soil since Israel is not an ICC signatory . <p> But this should not deter the rest . By continuing to deny Netanyahu entry , on penalty of being apprehended and tried for war crimes , these countries can firm up his position as a pariah . <p> Feeling the heat of international pressure , Netanyahu has made a great show of striking a compromise by accepting a ceasefire - which , according to France , he has violated 52 times already - with Hezbollah . This does not diminish his culpability . Hopefully , when expediency and decency are cynically aligned in UNSC at some point , the Israeli PM will be brought to justice . <p> ( Disclaimer : The opinions expressed in this column are that of the writer . The facts and opinions expressed here do not reflect the views of www.economictimes.com. )
