<p> NEW DELHI : Israel can learn from India the use of soft power to win the war of narratives in times of conflict , Israeli ambassador to India Reuven Azar said during an interaction with TOI editors . As Israel has pressed on with its military offensive to destroy Hamas , there 's been a wave of support for Palestinians in Gaza . Azar said Israel , as the only Jewish state in the region , was outnumbered in geopolitical composition . " We are the one and only Jewish state . You have very powerful media outlets that are investing billions of dollars like Al Jazeera , TRT , and many other outlets . Frankly , we have n't been investing enough because most of our investment went to hard power , not to soft power . You have been combining hard and soft power in the way that you have been challenging these groups , " he said . <p> As India looks to keep its relations with both Israel and Palestine on an even keel , calling repeatedly for a ceasefire in Gaza but also strongly backing Israel 's right to defend itself from terrorism , Azar said the Indian govt has been supportive of Israel 's " core national interests " . Acknowledging the differences between the two sides on issues like India 's continued aid to UNRWA , an agency banned by Israel , and India 's voting on UNGA resolutions concerning Palestine , the ambassador said Israel shares friendly ties with India and it will continue to engage with the Indian govt on these issues . <h> On India <p> " I 'm not in the business of giving grades to our friends . I think that when it comes to our core national interests , India has been pretty cooperative . Of course , we would like to see many countries , including India , changing their voting pattern . And I told our Indian friends that when it comes to UNRWA , we prefer that they divert their assistance to the needy people through other channels . So , this is a conversation we 're having and we are going to continue to engage . At the end of the day , this is a very friendly relationship and we have to continue having the discussion , " Azar said . <p> Like last year , India released $5 million for UNRWA ( UN Relief and Works Agency for Palestinian refugees in Near East ) . The govt also informed Parliament last week that it voted in favour of 10 out of the 13 resolutions that were introduced in the UNGA since the conflict began , and abstained on 3 . <h> Gaza Ceasefire <p> Azar suggested there might be some progress in negotiations for a hostage deal . The ambassador said Israel 's agenda in Gaza is to destroy the military capabilities of Hamas and ensure that the group is not able to rearm itself . " For that , you need a new order in the Gaza Strip . So , that 's what we are trying to achieve . To engage , to continue decimating Hamas , to engage with partners that want to work with us to restore peace . And that may take time . We want to see the release of hostages in batches at least . The PM ( Benjamin Netanyahu ) just met the families of the hostages and said he feels that time is ripe for a hostage deal . It seems there might be some progress in negotiations .... The bottom line is that we wo n't allow Hamas the possibility that in return of hostages , they will be able to take back control of the Gaza Strip . " <h> Two-State Solution <p> While India and most other countries have repeatedly called for a two-state solution , Israeli Parliament Knesset voted overwhelmingly earlier this year in favour of a resolution rejecting Palestinian statehood . The ambassador said Israel wants the Palestinians to rule themselves to the extent that they can without threatening Israel . " It means that as long as you have a population that is bound to try and destroy you , you wo n't be able to give them full sovereignty because they will use that in order to destroy you . We tried it with the Gaza Strip . Look what happened . For 17 years , we gave a chance . And then Hamas indoctrinated their people from the age of two or three just to kill Jews . They completely took hostage all their activities just to create this capability to destroy the state of Israel . So , we have to be realistic about the degree of self-rule that Palestinians can have , unless a new generation comes that thinks differently . " <h> On Syria <p> Speaking about the fall of Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad and its potential to further destabilise West Asia , Azar said there are three things about the geopolitical situation that are important now . " First is that the Iranian axis is debilitated as a result of the cutting of its three tentacles ( Hezbollah , Hamas and Assad ) . The second is what 's going to happen with Russian presence in eastern Mediterranean because this is shifting balance of power between Nato and Russia . And third , this was a meticulously planned attack by the Syrian opposition that was supported , sponsored by the Turkish govt . The question is to what extent they are going to be able to stabilise the Syria situation . Do n't forget that the Hayat Tahrir al-Sham comes from Jabhat al-Nusra , which was part of al-Qaida , " Azar said .
