<h> More than 5,600 youth of UP have gone to Israel for construction work so far , the Uttar Pradesh chief minister said <h> Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has been raising her voice against Israel 's actions in Gaza and expressing solidarity with Palestinians <p> Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday hit out at Congress MP Priyanka Gandhi Vadra for showing support for the people of Palestine in Parliament . <p> A day after the Congress leader carried to Parliament a bag with " Palestine " written on it , Adityanath said that his state government has sent over 5,000 people to Israel for jobs while the Wayanad MP is expressing solidarity with Palestinians . <p> " A Congress leader was roaming around in the Parliament carrying a bag with Palestine written on it , while we are sending the youth of Uttar Pradesh to Israel . More than 5,600 youth of UP have gone to Israel for construction work so far . Every youth is getting free accommodation and food , a salary of Rs 1.5 lakh per month and complete security is also guaranteed , " CM Yogi Adityanath said in the UP Assembly , according to ANI . <p> The Congress general secretary has been raising her voice against Israel 's actions in Gaza and expressing solidarity with Palestinians . Her recent attempt -- carrying a handbag emblazoned with the word " Palestine " and Palestinian emblems , including a watermelon -- seen as a symbol of Palestinian solidarity -- drew criticism from several leaders of ruling party including Prakash Javadekar and Anurag Thakur . <p> Senior BJP leader and the party 's Kerala in-charge , Prakash Javadekar , also criticised Priyanka over the move . Javadekar alleged that she and her party had never condemned the terror attack carried out by Hamas militants in Israeli territory , which had sparked the offensive . <p> The former Union Minister said that Priyanka 's action reflected the duplicity and " appeasement politics " practised by the Congress . <p> " Priyanka Gandhi brings Palestine bag , but she and @INCIndia never condemned Hamas terror attack , which started the war . This is the Duplicity and Appeasement politics practised by #Congress , " Javadekar said in a post on ' X ' . <p> Thakur questioned the message she intended to convey . He pointed out that while the Congress MP remained silent on the atrocities against Hindus in Bangladesh , she chose to make a fashion statement with a Palestine-themed bag . <p> The Israel-Hamas conflict began after the outfit launched a large-scale attack on Israel on October 7 , 2023 . <p> Meanwhile , on Tuesday , Priyanka walked into the Parliament showing her support for the Hindu and Christian minorities in Bangladesh . " Bangladesh ke Hindus and Christians ke saath khade ho " ( Stand with the Hindus and Christians of Bangladesh ) was the message displayed on her bag . <p> Advisory Alert:It has come to our attention that certain individuals are representing themselves as affiliates of Moneycontrol and soliciting funds on the false promise of assured returns on their investments . We wish to reiterate that Moneycontrol does not solicit funds from investors and neither does it promise any assured returns . In case you are approached by anyone making such claims , please write to us at **25;898;TOOLONG or call on 02268882347
