<h> Last week , Abed Elrazeg Abu Jazer , Charge d'affaires of the Palestine Embassy in New Delhi , had met Gandhi to congratulate her on her recent victory in Kerala 's Wayanad Lok Sabha constituency <h> The Wayanad MP was carrying a handbag emblazoned with " Palestine " and symbols associated with Palestinian solidarity , including a watermelon . <p> Congress general secretary and Wayanad MP Priyanka Gandhi Vadra , on Monday , displayed her support for war-torn Palestine by carrying a handbag emblazoned with " Palestine " and symbols associated with Palestinian solidarity , including a watermelon , as she arrived in Parliament for the winter session . <p> The Congress general secretary has been vocal in condemning Israel 's actions in Gaza , expressing solidarity with Palestinians and calling for an end to the violence . Last week , Abed Elrazeg Abu Jazer , Charge d'affaires of the Palestine Embassy in New Delhi , had met Gandhi to congratulate her on her recent victory in Kerala 's Wayanad Lok Sabha constituency . <p> Gandhi 's criticisms of Israeli policies have been sharp and consistent . In previous statements , she strongly condemned Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his government , accusing them of committing " genocidal actions " in Gaza . Her remarks came in the wake of Netanyahu 's defence of Israel 's military operations in Gaza , which he justified in a speech to the US Congress . Gandhi described the actions as " barbaric " and expressed grave concerns over the toll on civilians caught in the crossfire . <p> In a post shared on microblogging site X , the Wayanad MP described the situation in Gaza as a " horrific genocide . " She condemned the ongoing violence that she said was resulting in the deaths of innocent civilians , including children , aid workers , doctors , journalists , and others who are vulnerable in conflict zones . Her statement called for global action to hold Israel accountable for what she characterised as war crimes . <p> It is no longer enough to speak up for the civilians , mothers , fathers , doctors , nurses , aid workers , journalists , teachers , writers , poets , senior citizens and the thousands of innocent children who are being wiped out day after day by the horrific genocide taking place in Gaza.Priyanka Gandhi Vadra ( @priyankagandhi ) July 26 , 2024 <p> " The massacre of innocent people , the daily deaths of civilians -- mothers , fathers , children , teachers , aid workers , journalists -- must be condemned by every right-thinking individual , " Gandhi wrote . " It is the moral responsibility of every right-thinking individual , including those Israeli citizens who do not support violence and hatred , to stand up and condemn the Israeli government 's genocidal actions . " <p> She condemned the indiscriminate killings of civilians , which have resulted in the deaths of not only women and children but also aid workers , doctors , journalists , and other vulnerable individuals . Gandhi urged individuals and governments worldwide to hold Israel accountable for what she called war crimes . <p> In her remarks , Gandhi also criticised the international community for its response to the conflict . " Their actions are unacceptable in a world that professes civility and morality , " she wrote . " Instead , we are subjected to the image of the Israeli Prime Minister being given a standing ovation in the US Congress . He calls it ' a clash between barbarism and civilization . ' He is absolutely correct , except that it is him and his government that are barbaric , and their barbarism is being given unstinted support by most of the Western world . It is truly a shame to watch . " <p> She added that such actions were unacceptable in a world that upholds civility and morality . " It is unacceptable in a world that claims to uphold civility and morality , " she further noted , calling for an end to the violence and a return to peace negotiations . <p> The continued violence in Gaza and the international response to it has been the subject of ongoing debates and tensions . Many countries and leaders around the world , including India , have called for an immediate ceasefire , while also addressing the root causes of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . <p> Advisory Alert:It has come to our attention that certain individuals are representing themselves as affiliates of Moneycontrol and soliciting funds on the false promise of assured returns on their investments . We wish to reiterate that Moneycontrol does not solicit funds from investors and neither does it promise any assured returns . In case you are approached by anyone making such claims , please write to us at **25;824;TOOLONG or call on 02268882347
