<p> India 's support of Palestinian rights has roots in its own struggle for independence . Mahatma Gandhi , in 1938 , famously declared , " Palestine belongs to the Arabs in the same sense that England belongs to the English . " Post-independence , India stayed consistent on its commitment to the Palestinian cause . <p> However , under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi , India 's foreign policy prioritised strategic and economic interests through a strategic neutrality . <h> India 's Historical Support for Palestine <p> Spurred by its non-alignment policy , from 1947 India had opposed the United Nations ' ( UN ) partition plan for Palestine , the only non-Arab country to do so . Two years later , India vetoed Israel 's admission to the UN , recognising the Jewish state only in 1950 . However , in continued solidarity with Arab nations and the Palestinian Liberation Organisation ( PLO ) , India did not establish diplomatic relations at that time . <p> In 1974 , India ratified the PLO as the legitimate representative of the Palestinian people , while also voting in the 1975 UN General Assembly to equate Zionism with racism . India was one of the first non-Arab nations to recognise the Palestinian State in 1988 . <h> Diplomatic Relationship With Israel <p> With the end of the Cold War , a shift in global geopolitics compelled India to reassess foreign policy . Two decades after opposing Israel 's ratification into the UN , India established diplomatic relations with the State in 1992 . <p> Post Cold-War , India continued to be considered a friend of Palestine . For example , India had close ties with Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat , whose visits to India were marked by public displays of camaraderie with Indian leaders , and who was widely regarded as a friend of India . The country also continued to vote in favour of Palestinian resolutions at the UN . Simultaneously , India worked to increase military and technological collaborations with Israel . <h> A Tilt Towards Israel Or Natural Progression ? <p> In 2015 , President Pranab Mukherjee visited both Palestine and Israel , quoting Gandhi 's statement on Palestine during his visit to East Jerusalem . Mukherjee 's visit was emblematic of India 's effort to balance competing interests . In 2017 , India condemned the US decision to recognise Jerusalem as Israel 's capital , reaffirming its commitment to a negotiated settlement . At the UN , India has maintained its voting patterns in favour of Palestine , including a vote in 2020 opposing Israeli settlements in the West Bank . <p> The same year , Modi became the first Indian prime minister to visit only Israel . In contrast to Congress-era leaders who often visited Palestine alongside Israel , Modi 's did not stop in Ramallah . Annual trade between the India and Israel has exceeded five billion USD , with significant investments from both countries ' in defence , including missile systems and surveillance equipment . <p> Since the events of October 7 , 2023 , Modi 's government has been reticent in vocalising support for Palestine in international forums . <h> Domestic Support for Palestine <p> Indian politicians have often expressed solidarity with Palestine within Parliament . Debates on Middle East conflicts frequently see references to India 's historical support for Palestinian self-determination . During a 2014 Parliament session , members across party lines condemned the violence in Gaza , urging the government to denounce Israeli actions . <p> On December 16 , 2024 , Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra made headlines for carrying a handbag emblazoned with " Palestine " and featuring Palestinian symbols , including a watermelon -- a widely recognised emblem of Palestinian solidarity . The gesture sparked reactions across political lines . Congress spokesperson Dr Shama Mohammed praised Vadra 's move , calling it a " gesture of compassion , commitment to justice , and humanity . " <p> Earlier this year , Vadra condemned Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's actions in Gaza as " genocidal " and " barbaric . " She also criticised Netanyahu 's speech in the U.S. Congress , calling for a global condemnation of his government 's actions . Palestinian representatives have acknowledged Vadra 's consistent support , with Abed Elrazeg Abu Jazer , Charge d'Affaires at the Palestine Embassy in New Delhi , personally congratulating her on her recent electoral victory from Kerala 's Wayanad constituency . <p> The BJP , however , accused Vadra of " appeasement politics , " with BJP MP Sambit Patra stating , " From Nehru to Priyanka Vadra , the Gandhi family has always carried the bag of appeasement , never the bag of patriotism . " <p> In October 2023 , India reiterated its support for a two-state solution during escalating violence in Gaza , reflecting its commitment to a balanced approach . <p> In April 2024 , India welcomed a UN Security Council resolution demanding an immediate ceasefire in Gaza for Ramadan , calling it a " positive step . " At the UN , India 's Permanent Representative , Ruchira Kamboj , condemned the deepening humanitarian crisis , stating , " The humanitarian crisis resulting from the ongoing Israel-Hamas conflict is simply unacceptable . "
