<h> Story highlights <p> Houthi media said the strikes hit power stations , oil facilities and a port in Hodaidah , killing nine people and injuring others . The strikes came after the interception of a missile fired by Huthi rebels towards Israel . The group has regularly targeted Israel over its military operation in Gaza <p> Israel said Thursday it struck ports and energy infrastructure used by Houthi rebels in Yemen after intercepting a missile fired from the country , warning Huthi leaders it " will reach you too . " <p> Houthi media said the strikes hit power stations , oil facilities and a port in Hodaidah , killing nine people and injuring others . The strikes came after the interception of a missile fired by Huthi rebels towards Israel . The group has regularly targeted Israel over its military operation in Gaza . <p> Israel 's military said it " conducted precise strikes on Huthi military targets in Yemen -- including ports and energy infrastructure in Sanaa , which the Huthis have been using in ways that effectively contributed to their military actions . " <p> " I warn the leaders of the Huthi terrorist organisation : Israel 's long arm will reach you too , " Israeli Defence Minister Israel Katz said . Al-Masira , a media channel belonging to the Huthis , said a series of " aggressive raids " were launched in the Yemeni capital of Sanaa and the port city of Hodeidah . <p> It reported raids that " targeted two central power plants " in and around Yemen 's capital Sanaa , while in Hodeidah it said " the enemy launched four aggressive raids targeting the port ... and two raids targeting " an oil facility . <p> It said strikes on the Al-Saleef port had killed seven people , while two more were killed and other injured in the strike on the oil facility . The strikes came after Israel 's military intercepted a missile from Yemen for the second time this week . <p> On Monday , the Houthis claimed a missile launch they said was aimed at " a military target of the Israeli enemy in the occupied area of Yaffa " -- a reference to Israel 's Tel Aviv area . Also Monday , an Israeli navy missile boat intercepted a drone in the Mediterranean after it was launched from Yemen , the military said . <p> The Huthi rebels have said they are acting in solidarity with Palestinians and pledged Monday to continue operations " until the aggression on Gaza stops and the siege is lifted " . <p> Watch : Houthis Claim Hypersonic Missile Strike <p> On December 9 , a drone claimed by Huthis exploded on the top floor of a residential building in the central Israel city of Yavne , causing no casualties . In July , a Huthi drone attack in Tel Aviv killed an Israeli civilian , prompting retaliatory strikes on the Yemeni port of Hodeidah . <p> The Huthis have also regularly targeted shipping in the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden , leading to retaliatory strikes on Huthi targets by United States and sometimes British forces . <p> Israeli military spokesman Daniel Hagari said the group had become a " global threat , " pointing to Iran 's support for the rebels . " We will continue to act against anyone , anyone in the Middle East , that threatens the state of Israel , " he said . <p> Disclaimer : This story has been published from a news agency feed with minimal edits to adhere to WION 's style guide . The headline may have been changed to better reflect the content of the story or to make it more suitable for WION audience .
