<p> Retired U.S. Army Colonel Lawrence Wilkerson joins the MintCast director Mnar Adley to discuss the decline and possible fall of the U.S. empire . It is clear to at least half the world , some four billion people , that the United States is not the power that it once was ... Our reputation is in tatters in the world , " he said , laying out parallels between the fall of the Western Roman and Persian empires and today 's United States . The U.S. military is a shadow of its former self and could not beat either Russia or China in a sustained war , Wilkerson says . If a war did break out , then it would likely escalate to nuclear Armageddon quickly . Wilkerson and MintPress News ' Mnar Adley also discuss the big geopolitical hot topics of the day , including Iran , Israel and Gaza . The Israel lobby , Wilkerson claims , constitutes a national security threat . Israel is the greatest and most dangerous foreign agent operating on US soil . There 's no question about that , " he said . Make sure to subscribe to us and become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ <h> Leave a Reply <p> Disclaimer : The comments contained within this website are personal reflection only and do not necessarily reflect the views of the LankaWeb . LankaWeb.com offers the contents of this website without charge , but does not necessarily endorse the views and opinions expressed within . Neither the LankaWeb nor the individual authors of any material on this Web site accept responsibility for any loss or damage , however caused ( including through negligence ) , which you may directly or indirectly suffer arising out of your use of or reliance on information contained on or accessed through this Web site . All views and opinions presented in this article are solely those of the surfer and do not necessarily represent those of LankaWeb.com . <p> This entry was posted on Wednesday , July 24th , 2024 . You can follow any responses to this entry through the RSS 2.0 feed . You can skip to the end and leave a response .
