Text ID: t023385
Group:   global_south_2024_12
File:    corpus/04_now_screened_iqr_cap/global_south_2024_12/pk/118363848.txt

Score (f6_pos): 4
Loading words (f6_pos), N=4: sail, famine, aid, shipment
<h> Seven and a half months later , 12,000 more Palestinians have been killed . <p> History wo n't be kind to Joseph Biden 's presidency in evaluating his handling of Israel 's genocidal war on Gaza . At best , his response will be judged weak and feckless -- at worst , enabling of or even complicit in the crimes committed . <p> Examples of both fecklessness and complicity abound : On 4 April 2024 , a New York Times story headlined " President Biden told Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu that future U.S. support ' will be determined ' by how Israel treats civilians in Gaza " noted : " President Biden threatened on Thursday to condition future support for Israel on how it addresses his concerns about civilian casualties and the humanitarian crisis in Gaza , prompting Israel to commit to permitting more food and other supplies into the besieged enclave in hopes of placating him . <p> " During a tense 30-minute call with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel , Mr Biden for the first time leveraged U.S. aid to influence the conduct of the war against Hamas that has inflamed many Americans and others around the world . " <p> After the call , Secretary of State Antony Blinken commented , " If we do n't see the changes we need to see , there 'll be changes in policy . " <p> Seven and a half months later , 12,000 more Palestinians have been killed in schools , hospitals , and mosques where they sought safety . Crowded tent sites of desperate refugees have been bombed , and Israel has continued to block deliveries of humanitarian aid . The administration 's " threat " was for naught . <p> Then on 13 October , Secretary Blinken and Secretary of Defence Lloyd Austin wrote to the Israeli government expressing concern with the " dire " humanitarian situation in Gaza , citing the isolation of the northern part of the territory , repeated evacuation orders , the blocking of humanitarian assistance , targeting aid workers , and other Israeli policies adversely impacting Palestinians . They gave Israel 30 days to improve the humanitarian situation and protection of civilians in Gaza or face unstated consequences . <p> After Democratic losses in November , some commentators assumed that , relieved of political pressures , President Biden might move boldly to address the crisis in Gaza and challenge both Netanyahu and the incoming Trump administration . But four Biden administration actions during the past week demonstrate that such hopes were in vain . As the Blinken/Austin letter 's deadline approached , U.S. and international aid groups and Biden administration officials charged with humanitarian matters communicated to the Secretaries that the situation in Gaza had worsened , shipments of food , water , and medicines remained intolerably inadequate , aid workers were still being threatened , and there was impending famine . With winter approaching , they warned the humanitarian crisis would only grow more desperate . Nevertheless , on 12 November , the U.S. issued a delusional passing grade to Israel for " improvements " in Gaza . <p> On 20 November , a new UN Security Council ceasefire resolution negotiated over months was again vetoed by the U.S. , stymying the international community 's efforts to end the war . Even more troubling was the patently false U.S. claim that it opposed the resolution for not calling for the immediate release of Israeli hostages , when it specifically includes " immediate , unconditional , and permanent ceasefire and the release of all hostages . " <p> Also , on 20 November , the U.S. Senate voted on three bills opposing billions in U.S. weapons to Israel . Senators in support argued that supplying these weapons violated U.S. laws restricting such shipments when the recipient country uses them to risk civilian lives or impede humanitarian assistance . Ignoring the charges ' factual basis and evidence of violations of U.S. laws , the White House issued senators " talking points " charging that " Disapproving arms purchases for Israel at this moment would ... put wind on the sails of Iran , Hezbollah , and Hamas . " The White House " Hamas-baiting " leading senators of its own party was deeply troubling . <p> The next day , the International Criminal Court issued arrest warrants for Netanyahu and former Defence Minister Yoav Gallant , charging them as criminally responsible for acts including murder , persecution , and starvation as part of a " widespread and systematic attack against the civilian population of Gaza . " President Biden 's response denounced the decision , saying : " Arrest warrants against Israeli leaders are outrageous ... We will always stand with Israel against threats to its security . " <p> So , President Biden will apparently end his term without a change of heart or policy . In just the last month , he rejected multiple opportunities to distance himself from Israeli policies . With these rejections , he will " own " this war . It will be his legacy . <p> Dr. James J. ZogbyThe writer is the President of Arab American Institute .
