<h> Observer reporter among Caribbean delegation in Israel <p> A small delegation of journalists from the Caribbean , including Jamaica Observer staff reporter Jason Cross , arrived in Israel on Sunday and will spend the next five days visiting specific sites impacted by war , as well as locations that have great historical significance and biblical connections . <p> The purpose of the visit to the Middle East by the journalists will be to capture some of the happenings on the ground in Israel , a country that has been in armed conflict with Hamas-led Palestinian militant groups in the Gaza Strip and Israel since October 7 , 2023 . <p> As a result of the conflicts , the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) in November this year , issued three arrest warrants for Prime Minister of Israel , Benjamin Netanyahu , former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant as well as a senior Hamas official . The three are accused of war crimes during and after the October 7 attacks on Israel last year which led to hundreds of people being tortured and killed . <p> The ICC said in a statement on November 21 that it found reasonable grounds that Netanyahu is criminally responsible for war crimes such as " starvation as a method of warfare " , murder , persecution and other inhumane acts . <p> Jamaica Observer staff reporter , Jason Cross , in Israel . <p> The prime minister 's office has since denied the accusations , labelling them as absurd and antisemitic . It also styled the ICC as a discriminatory body that has political bias and defended Israel 's participation in the conflict as being just , following a murderous attack by Hamas . The attack was described by the PM 's office as the largest massacre against Jewish people since the Holocaust , a genocide of European Jews during World War 2 which began in 1941 and ended in 1945 . <p> The Holocaust was carried out by Adolf Hitler 's Nazi German forces and their collaborators , which were said to have claimed the lives of six million Jews . <p> An Israeli official told the Jamaica Observer that the government is happy to host the delegation because it provides the opportunity to show reporters from the Caribbean , " the things from our point of view " . <p> " We really wish that after you see and experience Israel , your opinion would reflect more of how we see things and we would be happy if you could share it with your readers . We see Jamaica as a very important place in the Caribbean . It is one of the most important islands in the Caribbean and also worldwide . Jamaica is a place of international culture that affects the world . It is small but is a very important island and everybody knows Jamaica , " the official said . <p> The official source told the Observer that the situation involving Israel did not spring up overnight and described it as complicated . <p> " It has history . From the press you will read about two sides of the story . From our side , you will hear the Israeli side of the story . A lot of people follow the news but you can see there is a lot of ignorance about the details , the challenges and complexities . They do n't know what is the ideology of Hamas , what is Israel and why Hamas attacked Israel on the 7th of October . <p> " I meet a lot of people who have a lot of interest in the situation in Israel , in Gaza and Lebanon . It is mainly because it is the Holy Land . At the same time , when you try to go deeper you see that they only know the surface news and they do n't really know the details of the story . I think you being in Israel , you will hear a lot of details and go deeper into the issues , to show what you see to your audience in Jamaica , " the official pointed out . <p> While in Israel , the delegation of Caribbean journalists will visit the south of Israel and tour various areas around the Gaza strip which stretches 41 kilometres from north to south . The journalists will meet with a Bedouin leader in the south of Israel and will visit the car cemetery and the site of the Nova Festival where more than 380 people were killed . There was to have been roughly 3,500 people at the Festival on October 7 last year . Many of them were raped before they were killed and some were abducted . <p> The delegation will also sit in on roundtable talks at the Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs , during which discussions regarding relations between Israel , Latin America and the Caribbean will be discussed . A visit will also be made to the Holocaust Museum , among other sites of historical significance . <p> On October 7 last year , roughly 3,000 Hamas-led terrorists reportedly forced their way across the Israeli border from Gaza , killing roughly 1,800 people and taking scores of civilians as hostages , exacting on them many acts of brutality including sexual assault . <p> The attack on Israel led to ongoing war against Hamas as well as Hezbollah which is an Iran-backed Lebanese Shia Islamist political party that has a paramilitary arm and several other allied groups of Hamas . <p> There appears to be some form of peace at the moment after a ceasefire agreement reached between Israel and Hezbollah . The ceasefire which was brokered by the United States and France took effect on Wednesday November 27 , clearing the way for an end to conflict across the Israel-Lebanese border . The conflict killed thousands of people since being sparked by the Gaza war which started in October last year .
