<h> Giving Kartel his due <p> In 1998 I was in the employ of Buju Banton . He had just put on the finishing touches to his Gargamel Studio in Kingston 8 and embarked upon a journey into entrepreneurship . <p> One day a teenager entered Buju 's establishment . He went by the name Addi Banton and Buju was his idol . That visit never materialized into a recording deal but Addi Banton was just getting warmed up . I was a young journalist and Adidjah ' Vybz Kartel ' Palmer , formerly Addi Banton , was a young deejay . <p> Time flew by and , in a couple of years , Vybz Kartel took dancehall by the scruff of the neck and shook it into a new dispensation . The tremors are still being felt . I had also grown in my field . Back then I was a freelance writer prostituting my skill to any reasonable buyer . <p> By 2014 I had matriculated to Crime/court editor of the Jamaica Observer and could , to some degree , choose what I wanted to cover . I chose to personally cover the Vybz Kartel murder trial . There were two trials taking place simultaneously , both of which had to be reported on from my desk . I selfishly chose the one I thought would be less boring . <p> At the end of the trial , things took a southern turn . On April 12 , 2014 an article appeared in the Jamaica Observer entitled ' 17 Guns for freedom ' . The piece quoted a highly-placed police source who claimed that the controversial deejay had coughed up information about the location of a cache of firearms in exchange for them halting their probe into the murder of Clive ' Lizard ' Williams . <p> According to the article , the cops grabbed the guns before deciding to skip Kartel 's tackle . The piece did not sit well with the Gaza fans and my life was upended . Death threats started to rain in . Fellow journalist Abka Fitz-Henley and myself were targets . A carload of armed men visited my family home and told my Rastafari friend that my sister in New York had given them something for me . I am the youngest of three brothers . There is no sister in the mix . Was that something from my sister , some bullets ? How did they get my number ? <p> The following morning I sat in a bar along Mannings Hill Road in St Andrew with my lifelong friend Nigel ' Little Lenny ' Grandison discussing the issue . <p> " The man dem look like dem want blood Nigel . It serious , " I said . <p> " Easy nuh Dread . A chat dem a chat man , " he said reassuringly . <p> But central to my mindset was the fact that , days ago , Vybz Kartel made an unsworn statement from the dock , officially known as the witness stand . Legal records of Jamaica 's justice system states that the landmark case relative to an unsworn statement is the Crown vs Leary Walker . My father again . <p> Prosecutor , Jeremy Taylor , went on a rant in the Supreme Court explaining the historical and legal nuances of an unsworn statement . Here I was , attempting to move on with my life for the umpteenth time , when I get another reminder of my past . <p> " The landmark case relating to an unworn statement from the dock is the Crown versus Leary Walker , " said Taylor . <p> The Vybz Kartel murder trial is the longest-running in Jamaica 's legal history . And I was glad when it was done . At no time was I deathly afraid of the threats on my life . However I was aware of the danger and never dropped my guard . <p> I left the island for a short spell after the threats became an annoyance and my bosses at the Jamaica Observer ordered me to stay low . The threats petered out after Vybz Kartel issued a statement condemning the threats against journalists . <p> A lot of time has passed and experience allows us to gain perspective and context . Kartel has certainly matured , as have I. He has plastered himself across social media platforms . You ca n't delete him from your psyche . Vybz Kartel wo n't allow it . Some criticise it while he pats himself on the back , proud of his street acquired Phd in marketing . <p> His answers in two recent interviews are worthy of mention . Firstly , he paid homage to Bounty Killer , who he said gave him the opportunity to take care of his family . There were times both men were at loggerheads . Even more instructive in relation to Palmer 's growth is his take on the recent beating of a social media personality which was allegedly ordered by a budding entrepreneur . <p> " Them days deh done . Beat up people fi dem opinion ? " Kartel said . <p> Thirteen years is a long time and the artiste is certainly walking his Freedom Street . One hopes he will grab the second chance life has offered him and remain trouble free . <p> In days the Freedom Street concert will sound off in Jamaica 's National Stadium . <p> One hopes that Vybz Kartel will display to his fans that he learnt stage craft . It is left to be seen if he has improved in 14 years as he is woefully lacking when compared to the greats . His idol , Buju Banton , gave a remarkable performance at his concert after a decade in prison . That concert was sold out . Will the same scenario play out for Vybz Kartel ? <p> Let 's give him his due . Vybz Kartel has carved out his niche , he understands the science of money and has so far grabbed his second chance . <p> Karyl Walker <p> Karyl Walker is a veteran journalist who served as the Crime/court editor for the Jamaica Observer . He now resides in Florida , USA. 
