<p> The six Indonesian medical personnel working at the Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza have evacuated safely to Central Gaza , where they resume their humanitarian mission at the Public Aid Hospital . <h> Nur Janti <p> Thematic image of Gaza . In a separate statement issued on its official X account on Friday , the Indonesian Foreign Ministry condemned the attack of Kamal Adwan and the expulsion of the MER-C team from the medical facility . PHOTO : PIXABAY <p> December 9 , 2024 <p> JAKARTA -- Indonesian volunteers who were providing medical assistance in a humanitarian mission in a hospital in northern Gaza Strip have been taken to safety following a recent assault by the Israeli military in and around the medical facility , the Foreign Ministry reports . <p> On Friday , Israel launched deadly air strikes and " direct fire " around Kamal Adwan Hospital in North Gaza , according to the strip 's civil defense agency as reported by AFP . Soldiers of the Israeli Army also reportedly stormed into one of the last functioning hospitals in the war-torn area and ordered all medical personnel to leave the facility ; a claim later denied by the military . <p> Among the medical personnel were six Indonesians from the Medical Emergency Rescue Committee ( MER-C ) volunteering to treat patients at Kamal Adwan . <p> A video uploaded to the organization 's Instagram account on Friday showed them leaving the hospital and heading to Salah Al-Din Road , the main highway in the Gaza Strip , on foot along with dozens of patients . They were later picked up by an ambulance operated by Gaza 's health authorities . <p> The Foreign Ministry 's citizen protection director Judha Nugraha confirmed that the six Indonesian medics had successfully evacuated to Gaza City , where they resumed their humanitarian mission at the Public Aid Hospital in the vicinity . <p> " The Foreign Ministry continues to coordinate with MER-C regarding the whereabouts and safety of Indonesian medical personnel in Gaza , " Judha said , adding that the Indonesian embassy in Amman , Jordan , also monitored the volunteers ' condition . <p> Gaza 's civil defense agency reported that at least 29 people were killed and dozens wounded during Friday 's shelling by the Israeli military in North Gaza , including in the area around Kamal Adwan , AFP reported . <p> The agency said that Israel had been launching major military operations in Beit Lahia in northern Gaza for the past two months , which have again escalated in recent days , forcing thousands to flee . <p> But the Israeli military denied claims of storming the hospital , saying that it was operating next to the facility . It said it would continue to " operate against terror infrastructure and terrorists " in northern Gaza , including " adjacent to " the hospital . <p> In a separate statement issued on its official X account on Friday , the Indonesian Foreign Ministry condemned the attack of Kamal Adwan and the expulsion of the MER-C team from the medical facility . <p> " This attack is part of a series of Israeli aggressions targeting civilian facilities in Gaza , constituting a grave violation of international humanitarian law and international human rights law , " the ministry said on Friday . <p> It added that the country called for the international community to intensify pressure on Israel to " immediately cease all hostilities " and comply with obligations under international law to ensure the protection of civilians and humanitarian workers . <p> The eviction of the medical team took place days after the Indonesian medics arrived at Kamal Adwan on Dec. 1 . They acted as part of a medical mission from the World Health Organization ( WHO ) to dispatch medical personnel and deliver a fuel tank and medical supplies . <p> The mission was the first medical team deployed to the hospital in 60 days , comprising two surgeons , two emergency nurses , a gynecologist and a logistician . <p> " That is extremely concerning and should never happen , " WHO spokesperson Rik Peeperkorn said in a briefing on Friday , as quoted by Reuters . He added that the hospital was now " minimally functional " . <p> Kamal Adwan director Hossam Abu Safiah said that no surgeons were left following the latest raid . <p> This was not the first time for the Israeli military to attack the North Gaza hospital . Last month , Israel launched an airstrike that hit the hospital and killed its intensive care unit director Ahmad al-Kahlut . <p> Aside from the attack in northern Gaza , Israel also launched a strike on a house in the Nuseirat refugee camp in central Gaza on Friday , according to Gaza 's civil defense agency . At least 17 people were killed in the strike in the early evening . <p> The war in Gaza was sparked by an attack launched by Palestinian militant group Hamas on Oct. 7 , 2023 that reportedly killed around 1,200 people , mostly civilians . <p> Israel launched a retaliatory military campaign in the strip which has killed at least 44,600 people , a majority civilians , according to figures from the Gaza health ministry .
