<h> Editorial : War impact far and wide <p> A nuanced position on the ongoing Israel-Hamas war , articulated by the External Affairs Ministry , reflects India 's tightrope walking on an issue that is bound to have an impact on its trade and economic interests . In its first official statement on the conflict , the Ministry of External Affairs opted for a balanced approach ; condemning the terror strike on one hand and , on the other , advocating resumption of direct negotiations towards establishing a ' sovereign , independent and viable State of Palestine ' living within secure and recognised borders , side by side at peace with Israel . By calling for global efforts to fight the menace of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations , New Delhi has sent out a strong signal of support to Israel . At the same time , it has reiterated the long-held stand in favour of a negotiated settlement wherein both Palestine and Israel can peacefully coexist with dignity . India 's emphasis on the " universal obligation to observe international humanitarian law " is apparently aimed at Tel Aviv which is carrying out massive aerial strikes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would harm India 's interests , particularly in the crude oil-dependent sectors . India relies heavily on crude oil , and any price increase could exacerbate inflation fears . Nearly 60% of India 's crude oil demand is met by the Middle East region . An uncertain Middle East could cause supply interruptions , driving up global oil costs . Oil price increases can exacerbate the country 's current account deficit , putting downward pressure . Moreover , Israel is India 's third-largest trading partner in Asia and tenth globally . <p> Bilateral trade covers a wide range of sectors including communication technology , artificial intelligence , telecommunication , agriculture and water management . The increasing commercial partnership , worth around $5 billion , includes a variety of industries . Disruptions in this trade as a result of geopolitical uncertainty can have an impact on firms on both sides . At a broader level , the Israel-Hamas war could impact India 's ambitions of playing a bigger role in global trade . The recently announced India-Middle East-Europe Economic Corridor ( IMEEC ) may also be affected by the conflict , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already started soaring , and Indian stocks have tumbled due to worries about the fallout of the conflict . Similarly , the efforts aimed at normalising the diplomatic ties between Israel and the Arab world would come to a nought . In fact , these peace efforts triggered a sense of desperation among the Hamas leadership . The barbaric attacks on Israeli citizens were probably aimed at derailing an imminent Israeli-Saudi agreement . Following Israel 's withdrawal from the Gaza Strip in 2005 , and particularly after Hamas took control of the strip by defeating Fatah , its political rival in the 2006 elections , there were frequent outbreaks of violence , which resulted in casualties on both sides . Hamas also developed expertise in digging sophisticated military tunnels , which have become important conduits for cross-border infiltration.
