@@23597434 <p> A Palestinian young man died of his wounds suffered during clashes with Israeli soldiers on Friday afternoon in the West Bank , local medics said . <p> The Palestinian Red Crescent Society said in an e-mailed press statement that Mohamed Ja'barai , 24 , was shot by Israeli soldiers in the chest during clashes in the the southern West Bank city of Hebron and died later in hospital . <p> Clashes broke out Friday afternoon in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip between Palestinian demonstrators and Israeli soldiers , after calls made by various Palestinian factions . <p> Medics in the two regions said 10 Palestinians were injured , while dozens were treated in the field for inhaling tear gas fired by Israeli soldiers to disperse young stone throwers . <p> The demonstrations have been organized every Friday since U.S. President Donald Trump declared Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and decided to move the embassy from Tel Aviv to the disputed holy city on Dec. 6. 
@@23696779 <p> Qatar announced a 50 million-U.S. dollars donation to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees ( UNRWA ) , authority said on Thursday . <p> The government communications office and Qatari Ministry of Foreign Affairs said the donation came during the extraordinary ministerial meeting of UNRWA held in Rome , Italy in the presence of UN Secretary-General . <p> Subsequently , Qatar also announced that it has continued to finance projects implemented by the UNRWA , especially in the education and health sectors . <p> In February , Qatar announced the distribution of 9 million dollars of emergency aid of medicines , medical supplies , foodstuff , and fuel to operate hospital generators in the Gaza Strip . <p> Qatar is facing a nine-month boycott by its Gulf allies , which accused Qatar of supporting extremist political movements in the Middle East , including Hezbollah , the Muslim Brotherhood , and Hamas. 
@@23707995 <p> The United Nations says absence of a political process to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict on the basis of two-state solution continues to be the single largest impediment to the Palestinian development . <p> A new report by the UN Special Coordinator for Middle East Peace Process has stressed for resumption of full responsibilities by the Palestinian Authority for the people , governance and infrastructure of Gaza . <p> He said Gaza continues to present the greatest risk of escalation alongside an acute humanitarian crisis with potential for a complete breakdown in service delivery . 
@@23838257 <p> Flaming streams of about 10 Iron Dome rockets could be seen rising into the night sky in a spectacular light show , but there was no indication that Islamist militants in Gaza had fired rockets , a military spokeswoman said . <p> A subsequent army statement said : " Following reports of sirens sounding in southern Israel , unusual machine gun fire towards Israel was identified . No rocket launches were identified . The ( military ) is looking into the circumstances which led to the activation of the Iron Dome system . " <p> Abu Ubaida , spokesperson of the Hamas armed wing , said no rockets were fired into Israel . <p> Earlier , Israeli media had reported that Iron Dome had intercepted a number of rockets fired from the Gaza Strip . Sirens had sounded around the border area in Israel smartphone applications that warn of incoming rockets delivered a number of alerts in quick succession . <p> During the Gaza war in 2014 , Iron Dome interceptors largely protected Israel 's heartland from thousands of incoming rockets fired by Gaza militants . Israeli media said Sunday 's multiple launchings were the most intense since then . <p> Heightening tension around the border , Hamas began a military exercise on Sunday in which its fighters set off explosions and test-fired rockets into the sea . Gunfire echoed across Gaza as hundreds of fighters were deployed for the exercise , which is due to continue on Monday . <p> " The enemy ( Israel ) bears responsibility for any escalation and we will not stand handcuffed against any aggression , " Abu Ubaida said in a statement . <p> The army 's statement said that , in response to the machine gun fire into Israel , a tank targeted two observation posts in the northern Gaza Strip . It said it held Hamas responsible " for any terror emanating from the Gaza Strip " . <p> Palestinian residents of Beit Hanoun said the tank fired two shells into their area at about the same time of the Iron Dome launches , but that there were no casualties . 
@@23864804 <h> World <h> Share <h> Children must not be at risk during Palestinian protest : UN <p> UNITED NATIONS : The UN envoy for the Middle East urged restraint on Monday as he raised concern about children at risk during Palestinian protests starting this week near the Gaza-Israel border . <p> Palestinian families are planning to pitch hundreds of tents in the Gaza Strip near the border starting on Friday , launching a six-week show of support for Palestinian refugees . " It is imperative that civilians , in particular children , not be targeted and that all actors refrain from putting children at risk at any time , " Nickolay Mladenov told the council via videoconference from Jerusalem . <p> " I call on all sides to exercise restraint and to take the necessary steps to avoid violent escalation , " he said.The protest kicks off on Land Day , which commemorates the killing of six unarmed Arab protesters in Israel in 1976 , and ends on May 15 . <p> May 15 marks what the Palestinians refer to as the Nakba , or the catastrophe , marking when more than 700,000 Palestinians fled their land during the war that led to the creation of Israel.The United States plans to open its embassy in Jerusalem on May 14 , which coincides with the 70th anniversary of the creation of Israel . <p> The US decision to recognize Jerusalem as Israel 's capital infuriated the Palestinians , who have broken off ties with the administration of President Donald Trump.Mladenov told the council that Israel was pressing on with the building of settlements , defying the United Nations , which has branded the expansion of the Jewish outposts on occupied Palestinian land as illegal . <p> " Israel 's illegal settlement expansion and related activities continue further threatening the viability of the two-state solution and eroding the prospects for peace , " he said.Over the past three months , Israel approved 22 plans for some 1,500 housing units in one area of the West Bank , with about a dozen units approved for construction -- but this is significantly lower than in the previous three-month period.Ten tenders for 900 housing units in seven West Bank settlements were announced.More than 600,000 Israelis live in settlements in the West Bank and East Jerusalem . <p> UNITED NATIONS : The UN envoy for the Middle East urged restraint on Monday as he raised concern about children at risk during Palestinian protests starting this week near the Gaza-Israel border . <p> Palestinian families are planning to pitch hundreds of tents in the Gaza Strip near the border starting on Friday , launching a six-week show of support for Palestinian refugees . " It is imperative that civilians , in particular children , not be targeted and that all actors refrain from putting children at risk at any time , " Nickolay Mladenov told the council via videoconference from Jerusalem . <p> " I call on all sides to exercise restraint and to take the necessary steps to avoid violent escalation , " he said.The protest kicks off on Land Day , which commemorates the killing of six unarmed Arab protesters in Israel in 1976 , and ends on May 15 . <p> May 15 marks what the Palestinians refer to as the Nakba , or the catastrophe , marking when more than 700,000 Palestinians fled their land during the war that led to the creation of Israel.The United States plans to open its embassy in Jerusalem on May 14 , which coincides with the 70th anniversary of the creation of Israel . <p> The US decision to recognize Jerusalem as Israel 's capital infuriated the Palestinians , who have broken off ties with the administration of President Donald Trump.Mladenov told the council that Israel was pressing on with the building of settlements , defying the United Nations , which has branded the expansion of the Jewish outposts on occupied Palestinian land as illegal . <p> " Israel 's illegal settlement expansion and related activities continue further threatening the viability of the two-state solution and eroding the prospects for peace , " he said.Over the past three months , Israel approved 22 plans for some 1,500 housing units in one area of the West Bank , with about a dozen units approved for construction -- but this is significantly lower than in the previous three-month period.Ten tenders for 900 housing units in seven West Bank settlements were announced.More than 600,000 Israelis live in settlements in the West Bank and East Jerusalem . 
@@23893943 <h> World <h> Share <h> Israel army given shoot orders ahead of Gaza border protest <p> JERUSALEM : Israeli chief of staff Lieutenant General Gadi Eisenkot has warned the army has been given authorisation to open fire ahead of mass protests on the Gaza border planned for Friday . <p> Eisenkot said reinforcements , including special forces snipers , had been deployed to the border to counter what he said was the most serious risk of conflict since he took up his post in 2015 . A series of incidents in recent days , including two infiltrations , one by three armed Palestinians who penetrated some 20 kilometres ( 12 miles ) inside Israel , has already sent tensions soaring on the volatile frontier . Friday 's mass rallies near the border fence mark the start of more than six weeks of planned protests leading up to the inauguration of the new US embassy in Jerusalem around May 14 . <p> JERUSALEM : Israeli chief of staff Lieutenant General Gadi Eisenkot has warned the army has been given authorisation to open fire ahead of mass protests on the Gaza border planned for Friday . <p> Eisenkot said reinforcements , including special forces snipers , had been deployed to the border to counter what he said was the most serious risk of conflict since he took up his post in 2015 . A series of incidents in recent days , including two infiltrations , one by three armed Palestinians who penetrated some 20 kilometres ( 12 miles ) inside Israel , has already sent tensions soaring on the volatile frontier . Friday 's mass rallies near the border fence mark the start of more than six weeks of planned protests leading up to the inauguration of the new US embassy in Jerusalem around May 14. 
@@23922389 <p> Fifteen Palestinians have been martyred and over seven hundred others wounded by Israeli forces when clashes erupted during a protest march along Gaza 's border . <p> Thousands of Palestinians launched the Great March of Return in the besieged Gaza Strip today ( Friday ) , demanding the right of return to their villages and towns they were forcibly displaced from in 1948 . <p> Tent cities were set up in five locations along Gaza border , including Khan Younis , Rafah and al-Bureij refugee camp . <p> The protest is expected to continue until 15th of May , which marks the 70th anniversary of the Nakba , in which over seven hundred fifty thousand Palestinians were forcibly displaced from their homes to make way for the creation of Israel in 1948. 
@@23938519 <p> Palestinians observed a day of mourning on Saturday to protest the martyrdom of fifteen people by Israeli forces . <p> Call for observing the mourning day was given by President Mahmoud Abbas . <p> A general strike was held in Gaza Strip and occupied West Bank . A number of Palestinians were injured during confrontations with Israeli soldiers in the West Bank city of Hebron . <p> Meanwhile , the protesters have started returning to a tent city erected near Gaza 's border with Israel to resume the demonstration planned to last for six weeks . <p> On the other hand , thousands of people attended funerals for those martyred by Israeli forces yesterday . The mourners carried pictures of the martyrs , calling for protection to the Palestinian people from Israeli aggression . <p> Meanwhile , United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres called for an independent and transparent investigation into the deaths and injuries in Gaza on Friday , his spokesman said in a statement . <p> " He also appeals to those concerned to refrain from any act that could lead to further casualties and in particular any measures that could place civilians in harm 's way , " U.N . spokesman Farhan Haq said . <p> Meanwhile , According to the Press TV , the Israeli military has threatened to step up it " response " if tensions continue on the Gaza border shortly after the UN held an emergency meeting over the regime 's massacre of over a dozen Palestinians during an anti-occupation mass rally in the coastal enclave . <p> Israel 's chief military spokesman Brig . Gen. Ronen Manelis said Saturday that the regime has thus far restricted its response to those he claimed to be trying to breach Gaza 's border with the occupied territories . <p> He added that the military would , however go after those behind the angry demonstrations " in other places too . " <p> According to the figures provided by the Gaza Health Ministry , 16 Palestinians were killed and over 1,400 others wounded on Friday after Israeli forces fired live ammunition at Palestinian protesters marking Land Day and used tear gas to push them back from a heavily fortified border fence . <p> Ahead of the protest , the Israeli military had deployed tanks and 100 snipers with the authority to use live rounds on the Gaza border . <p> The latest threat came a day after the 15-member Security Council met at Kuwait 's request , with its UN representative Mansour al-Otaibi describing the situation in the Israeli-besieged Gaza Strip as " very dangerous . " <p> " Israel must uphold its responsibilities under international human rights and humanitarian law . Lethal force should only be used as a last resort with any resulting fatalities properly investigated by the authorities , " he added . <p> Additionally on Friday , UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres urged " an independent and transparent investigation " into the Gaza clashes and reaffirmed the world body 's " readiness " to support the so-called peace process . <p> Farhan Haq , a deputy spokesperson for Guterres , quoted the UN chief as saying that the Gaza " tragedy underlines the urgency of revitalizing the peace process aiming at creating the conditions for a return to meaningful negotiations for a peaceful solution " to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . <p> Muslim world reacts <p> Meanwhile , Muslim nations voiced their outrage over the Israeli military 's response to the mass demonstration in Gaza . <p> In a statement on Friday , the Turkish Foreign Ministry accused Israel of using " disproportionate force " against the Palestinians and expressed " concerns " over the casualties of Friday 's clashes . <p> It also called on Tel Aviv to " rapidly " stop resorting to force and " give up on its hostile attitude . " <p> Additionally , the Qatari Foreign Ministry said the Israeli escalation was a violation of international laws and conventions . <p> It further called on the international community and the Security Council to assume their responsibility in containing the Israeli war machine against the Palestinian people . <p> Doha also stressed its support for Palestinian rights , including the right to return to their homeland . <p> Moreover , Arab League Secretary General Ahmed Aboul Gheit condemned in the strongest terms the Israeli attacks and warned that regime 's persistence in violence drags the whole region to the abyss . <p> He said in a press release that the Israeli occupation shoulders the legal , political and moral responsibility for such violations . 
@@23944842 <h> Lahore <h> Share <h> FJMU result announced <p> LAHORE : The result of Final Professional MBBS Annual Examination 2017 of Fatima Jinnah Medical University ( FJMU ) has been announced . <p> According to a press release issued here on Saturday , student Wajiha Ahmad , daughter of Riaz Ahmad , got first position with 1,440 marks and Ammara Akram , d/o Muhammad Akram , got second position with 1396 marks and Amama Javed , d/o Javed Muhammad , got third position with 1,395 in the exam . The pass percentage remained 92 . The result is also available on the FJMU website . <p> He was addressing the concluding ceremony of two-day training workshop on " Capacity Building of Library Professionals " at Punjab University ( PU ) . The workshop was aimed to enhance the communication and leadership skills . Heads of different public sector libraries of Punjab attended the workshop . <p> Dr Nizam-ud-Din said reading habits of the students were changing due to Information and Communication Technologies ( ICTs ) . " The interest of the students is shifting towards e-libraries so library professionals must abreast with modern trends to serve the students , " he said . <p> Founding Vice-Chancellor of Information Technology University ( ITU ) and PITB Chairman Dr Umar Saif started the second day of the event . He said , " With the ever-growing list of Incubators , it is time to be an entrepreneur in Pakistan . " The event hosted some 400 startups and thousands of aspiring entrepreneurs from across the country . <p> Scientific sessions and talks on standards of patient care , accountability in practice and need for preventive therapy were highlights of the moot . <p> Chief guest Prof Khawaja Sadiq Hussain said it was patient who could be our success or disaster in the world hereafter . He hoped PIMA would lead the way in setting high healthcare standards . <p> Federation of Islamic Medical Association ( FIMA ) President Prof Ihsan Karaman of Turkey who was the guest of honour briefed the attendees about various hospitals , camps and educational activities carried by FIMA associate members in Syria , Gaza and Rohingiya . <p> PIMA President Dr Abdul Malik highlighted the achievements of PIMA . <p> LAHORE : The result of Final Professional MBBS Annual Examination 2017 of Fatima Jinnah Medical University ( FJMU ) has been announced . <p> According to a press release issued here on Saturday , student Wajiha Ahmad , daughter of Riaz Ahmad , got first position with 1,440 marks and Ammara Akram , d/o Muhammad Akram , got second position with 1396 marks and Amama Javed , d/o Javed Muhammad , got third position with 1,395 in the exam . The pass percentage remained 92 . The result is also available on the FJMU website . <p> He was addressing the concluding ceremony of two-day training workshop on " Capacity Building of Library Professionals " at Punjab University ( PU ) . The workshop was aimed to enhance the communication and leadership skills . Heads of different public sector libraries of Punjab attended the workshop . <p> Dr Nizam-ud-Din said reading habits of the students were changing due to Information and Communication Technologies ( ICTs ) . " The interest of the students is shifting towards e-libraries so library professionals must abreast with modern trends to serve the students , " he said . <p> Founding Vice-Chancellor of Information Technology University ( ITU ) and PITB Chairman Dr Umar Saif started the second day of the event . He said , " With the ever-growing list of Incubators , it is time to be an entrepreneur in Pakistan . " The event hosted some 400 startups and thousands of aspiring entrepreneurs from across the country . <p> Scientific sessions and talks on standards of patient care , accountability in practice and need for preventive therapy were highlights of the moot . <p> Chief guest Prof Khawaja Sadiq Hussain said it was patient who could be our success or disaster in the world hereafter . He hoped PIMA would lead the way in setting high healthcare standards . <p> Federation of Islamic Medical Association ( FIMA ) President Prof Ihsan Karaman of Turkey who was the guest of honour briefed the attendees about various hospitals , camps and educational activities carried by FIMA associate members in Syria , Gaza and Rohingiya. 
@@23944880 <h> The Great Return March <p> In a further deteriorating situation in Gaza and escalating military tensions , 17 protesters were killed and more than 1,400 were wounded in the Great Return March , a call for the right of return for Palestinian refugees in the besieged enclave . The peaceful sit-in demonstration that sought to voice the fervour of the people to return to Palestine was a right of the people , and was to continue leading up to the commemoration of the Nakba on May 15 . As condemned by the international community , the Israeli army 's use of force is indeed a violation of international law , breaching the legal obligation to distinguish between civilians and combatants . <p> As per usual , the UN Security Council failed to exact a cohesive stance of the issue , a testament to an obfuscation of its role in the region by a determined Trump administration . In the wake of the US government holding aid to UNRWA for Palestinian refugees hostage , a move that could prove catastrophic for millions of people in need , the political dimensions of the US stance on the disputed region may have an inflammatory role in the playing out of the violence on the border . Where withholding aid to UNRWA transgresses and undermines the prerogative of the UN and endangers the most vulnerable segment of the Palestinian people , depriving the refugees of the right to education , health , shelter and a dignified life , it further exacerbates the instability throughout the region , which will only lead to revolts and uprisings . <p> Over the past five months , Trumps peace plan for region has been intimated as being increasingly discriminatory towards the Palestinian state where it the Palestinians ' right of return would be ignore and the control of the Jordan Valley would be given to Israel . Further intimations allude to the establishment of a Palestinian state with provisional borders on half of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip , without Jerusalem , with only humanitarian solutions to the refugee issue and keep Palestinian security and borders in the hands of Israel . <p> In the face of mounting military conflicts , and Trumps ' weighted and coercive attempts at forcing a reconciliation , the situation is in eminent danger of escalating into a mass resistance with implications for all those with a stake in the conflict ; the Palestinians , the neighbouring Arab states , for the UN , for the EU , for Russia , for China , for the BDS movement , for liberal Jewish groups in the US and for all others in the international community . <p> With John Bolton as national security adviser , who does not ascribe to the two-state solution , the peace plan and US radical position on Palestine hints at feeble chances at the sanctimonious superpower brokering peace in the region . What its dithering deportment seems to have accomplished is to perhaps embolden and further legitimise the Israeli claim to the region , which is portrayed in this instance of undue atrocity. 
