@@23462771 <p> Another is the cost of reconstruction . At a conference in Kuwait last month , authorities estimated it would cost $US88.2 billion ( $113.5 billion ) to rebuild Iraq . The single biggest cost is $US17 billion for housing ; 40,000 homes are needed in Mosul alone , which bore the brunt of fighting . <h> Related Quotes <p> Foreign Minister Julie Bishop committed $18 million over three years for the UN Development Program at the conference , out of $100 million already promised by Canberra for the stabilisation effort . <h> Under pressure <p> While the Iraqi government contemplates the shortfall -- only $30 billion in total has been pledged -- it is also under pressure to come to some decisions about the foreign troops who helped it win the war . <p> Iraq 's parliament this week passed a resolution calling on all foreign forces to set a deadline for withdrawal . <p> " Parliament voted for a decision to thank friendly nations for their support in defeating Islamic State and at the same time to demand the government set a timeline for the withdrawal of foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ <p> There are many factors at play in what are likely to be delicate negotiations between Iraq and those countries that gave military support , including Australia . <h> Training missions to continue <p> Iraqi Army soldiers from the 1st Battalion 57th Brigade conduct building clearance drills as part of training being delivered by Australian and New Zealand soldiers at Taji Military Complex , Iraq . CPL Anita Gill <p> The Royal Australian Air Force 's six Super Hornets that had been deployed for bombing raids on IS targets returned home in January after the Iraqi government 's declaration of victory late last year . <p> " We expect to continue to provide essential training and support to the Iraqi security forces throughout 2018 , " Air Chief Marshal Binskin said . <p> " We remain closely engaged with the coalition and the US planning to allow us to advise the government on any future contributions as this may evolve . " <p> He said the training mission was evolving , and the focus now was on training local security forces to hold and stabilise the country and secure the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defeat , the group remained a threat , not on the battlefield but in " smaller attacks and smaller groups " . <h> Need to be wary <p> Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull and New Zealand counterpart Jacinda Ardern are known to have spoken about the future of the training mission but the outcome of those discussion is unknown . With the Kiwis , Australian troops have trained more than 30,000 Iraqi soldiers , police and paramilitary . <p> Former army chief Peter Leahy has told AFR Weekend he expects the training mission to run another couple of years but Australia should be wary of going beyond that . <p> " We have to be alert for opportunities to draw down the forces there , " says Leahy , now head of the National Security Institute at the University of Canberra . <p> " We can provide more training but I would say it 's short term rather than long term until the Iraqis can look after themselves . " <p> While the Iraqi army collapsed in the face of Islamic State 's advance in 2014 , Leahy says soldiers have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ help of Western training and support and he is confident in their ability to prevent a repeat . <p> " Iraqis have demonstrated the capability , morale , training and equipment to look after their country , " he says . " That particular cancer Islamic State had to be excised and they should be proud . " <p> Leahy believes special forces training will be valuable for Iraqi soldiers to counter insurgents , while they will still need support for air transport and intelligence . He also thinks the government should offer to bring senior Iraqi officers to Australia for training . <p> " The ISIS caliphate may be gone but it is still a threat , " he says . " It 's not controlling territory ; it 's more a guerilla threat . " <p> NSW Liberal Senator Jim Molan , who had a 12-month stint as chief of operations for 300,000 coalition troops during the Iraq War in 2004 , is mindful of avoiding past mistakes of early withdrawal after the experiences of Afghanistan and Iraq , which necessitated the redeployment of Australian troops . <h> @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from conflict over the past two decades is that it takes time to create military capability , " he tells AFR Weekend . <p> " I would support the government 's commitment to Iraq to create that capability . " <p> Certainly , with Australian forces " behind the wire " conducting training , they are relatively out of harm 's way . And the cost of keeping forces there is coming down dramatically now that combat operations are being scaled back . <p> Budget figures show that Operation OKRA , the name of Australia 's mission to Iraq , cost taxpayers $814.4 million in 2016-17 . The current budget is $453.4 million for 2017-18 . <p> With a relatively modest cost and low chance of casualties , the political fallout for Canberra is minimised . <p> " I think the risk is an acceptable risk , " Leahy says . <p> Being the Middle East , though , the sands are constantly shifting . <h> Militias played a crucial role <p> Perhaps the biggest beneficiary of the chaos has been Iran , which has increased its influence in Baghdad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defeat Islamic State but Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi is under pressure from Western and Arab allies to dismantle them . <p> The balancing act that Abadi faces with Iran was illustrated in January when an alliance with which he would contest elections in May collapsed after a day amid a welter of criticism of sectarianism . <p> For many Middle Eastern observers , Tehran 's actions in Iraq are just part of what they see as a broader plan to dominate the region and set up a clash between Shia and Sunni Muslims . Iran is ( with Russia ) the main ally of Syria 's Bashar al-Assad regime in his civil war , sponsors terror groups Hezbollah and Hamas in Lebanon and Gaza respectively , and is engaged in a proxy war in Yemen against Saudi Arabia . The boycott of Qatar has also been provoked in part because of its ties to Iran . <p> The threat posed by Iran is forcing Sunni nations such as Saudi Arabia into what may have once been unthinkable : an alliance with Israel , which recently lost an aircraft for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Syria . <h> Proverbial powderkeg <p> Throw in Turkey 's increasing religious authoritarianism under Recep Tayyip Erdogan and the perennial push for Kurdish independence and the region remains the proverbial powderkeg . <p> Leahy sees no value in Australia sticking around long term in Iraq , particularly with diggers remaining in Afghanistan and as the terror threat simmers in south-east Asia , as demonstrated by the support offered to the Philippines . <p> Amid tensions with China and North Korea , Leahy thinks there needs to be a greater focus on Australia 's neighbourhood . <p> " It 's a quagmire of different groups and ideologies and religions , shifting alliances , " Leahy says of the Middle East . <p> " We need to limit ourselves to Iraq , look at options to get out and do n't even contemplate getting involved in Syria . " <h> Desperate actions of terrorists <p> Binskin told senators the attacks were not a sign of strength , instead represented " the desperate actions of terrorists and insurgent groups who are reduced to killing innocent Afghan civilians in highly visible attacks to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . <p> If Leahy can see signs of hope in Iraq , he remains pessimistic about Australia 's longest running war . <p> " I ca n't see a clear way out of Afghanistan , " he says . " We 're stuck there for the foreseeable future with the force we 've got and I think that 's enough for us in the Middle East . " <p> And while Islamic State has been defeated in Iraq , the Turnbull government has not become complacent . <p> On Friday , it re-declared Mosul in Iraq a no-go zone so that Australians can be still prosecuted for terrorism offences if they travel there . Even Raqqa in Syria , which was Islamic State 's de facto capital , has had the ban lifted . <p> Bishop told Iraq 's Abadi in Kuwait the government remained committed to supporting Iraq to " ensure the lasting defeat of the terrorist organisation " . 
@@23547755 <h> Egyptian jamming of Sinai insurgents disrupts phones in Israel , Gaza <p> JERUSALEM ( Reuters ) - Israel and Egypt were working to halt disruptions to mobile phone service after Egyptian jamming against Sinai insurgents caused outages in neighboring Israel and the Gaza Strip , Israeli officials said on Wednesday . Under President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi , Egypt has quietly cooperated with Israel on security in the Sinai , a desert peninsula demilitarized as part of their U.S.-sponsored 1979 peace treaty but where Cairo 's forces now operate freely . The jamming appeared to catch Israel by surprise , however , prompting what its communications minister said were talks across the border to resolve what he called a " crisis " . Egypt 's military did not immediately comment . Cairo launched a major sweep of Sinai jihadis loyal to Islamic State on Feb 9 . Israeli officials said that on Feb 21 Egyptian forces began jamming a range of cellphone frequencies in Sinai , disrupting reception in Israel and Gaza . " We 've never seen anything this intensive or protracted . Even the Palestinians have been coming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one Israeli official told Reuters on condition of anonymity . Phones had been disrupted as far away as Jerusalem and northern Israel , depending on weather , the official said . An Egyptian official who also asked not to be identified confirmed electronic warfare was being waged in the Sinai . " Obviously , we want to stop terrorists from communicating , " he told Reuters . The official denied that Israel was the intended target of the jamming , but he said some Sinai insurgents were suspected of using smuggled Israeli SIM cards , close enough to the border to link up with Israeli cellphone reception , " which means that we may need to work against a wide range of frequencies " . Several Palestinian residents of Gaza , the densely populated enclave on the Egyptian border , told Reuters they had been experiencing problems with phone service . A source at one of the two Palestinian mobile phone companies said its services were disrupted for a day in the past week in southern Gaza but that the problem had been resolved . Israeli cellphone provider Partner said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but that its 4G network was working well . Other leading Israeli providers , Cellcom and Pelephone , did not immediately respond to requests for comment . Interviewed by Israel 's Army Radio , Communications Minister Ayoob Kara said : " Without getting into details , for the first time in the south we have been experiencing an uncomfortable situation " . But he said understandings were reached " after a very important meeting across the border " on Tuesday , and he believed the disruptions would end within the next three days . Gadi Yarkoni , a mayor representing Israeli communities near Gaza , criticized the Communications Ministry and threatened to sue the phone companies , saying the failure to fix disruptions " shows disrespect for the residents of the Gaza periphery " . The Multinational Force &amp; Observers ( MFO ) , an international body set up under the Israel-Egypt peace agreement to monitor the Sinai , declined to comment . <p> ( Additional reporting by Steven Scheer in Jerusalem and John Davison in Cairo ; Writing by Dan Williams ; Editing by Jeffrey Heller ) 
@@23551047 <h> Palestinian parliament to convene for rare session next month , PLO official says <p> RAMALLAH , West Bank ( Reuters ) - The Palestinian parliament will convene next month for a rare session and discuss U.S. President Donald Trump 's recognition of Jerusalem as Israel 's capital , a U.S. policy change that outraged Palestinians , an official said on Wednesday . <p> The 700-member body last met in 2009 , in what was termed an emergency session , to replace six of the 18 members of the Executive Committee of the Palestine Liberation Organization ( PLO ) , the largest party in the parliament . " The Palestinian National Council ( PNC ) will convene on April 30th , to discuss challenges to the Palestinian cause , especially after the U.S. decision against Jerusalem , " PLO official Wasel Abu Youssef told Reuters , using parliament 's formal name . He said the decision to hold what he called a " regular session " of parliament in Ramallah , in the Israeli-occupied West Bank , was taken at a PLO Executive Committee meeting chaired by President Mahmoud Abbas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Jerusalem that Washington could no longer take the lead in Israeli-Palestinian peace efforts . U.S.-brokered talks collapsed in 2014 . Trump 's announcement and the planned move in May of the U.S. embassy to Jerusalem - home to sites holy to Muslims , Jews and Christians - reversed decades of U.S. policy on the city . Its status is one of the biggest obstacles to reaching a peace agreement . Abu Youssef said members of parliament from the Palestinian territories and in exile would also elect members to the Executive Committee and the PLO 's Central Council to replace several who have died and others , whom political sources said Abbas wants replaced . The PNC last held a regular session in 1996 , in the presence of then-U.S . President Bill Clinton . At that meeting , the parliament voted in favor of amending clauses in the PLO 's charter that advocated Israel 's destruction . A Palestinian general election has not been held since 2006 , a national ballot won by the Hamas Islamist movement . Hamas seized the Gaza Strip in 2007 from forces loyal to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invitations for the upcoming meeting would be distributed to members of parliament in Gaza , the West Bank and in exile in the next two weeks . Delegates from outside the West Bank would need Israeli clearance to reach Ramallah , where the session will be held . 
@@23648277 <h> Palestinian PM survives explosion in Gaza <p> An explosion has struck the convoy of the Palestinian prime minister during a rare visit to Gaza , sparking fears of an assassination attempt . <p> Associated PressMarch 13 , 201810:17pm <p> The Palestinian prime minister has survived an explosion that targeted his convoy during a visit to the Gaza Strip , according to the Interior Ministry of the Palestinian National Authority . <p> Ramy Hamdallah was visiting Gaza on Tuesday in order to attend the inauguration of a wastewater treatment plant , and meet with officials . <p> " The attack on the prime minister 's convoy is an attack on the unity of the Palestinian people , " presidential spokesman Nabil Abu Rudeina said . <p> The PNA reported no injuries , however ; Palestinian news agency Wafa said the bomb explosion left seven people injured . <p> Head of the Palestinian General Intelligence Service Majid Faraj , who was accompanying Hamdallah , was also unharmed . <p> " It is a cowardly attack that targets our national unity , " Faraj said . <p> Following the blast , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . <p> Although no one has claimed responsibility for the explosion yet , the PNA held Hamas , the Islamist group that rules Gaza , responsible for what it described as an assassination attempt . <p> Meanwhile , Hamas rejected in a post on Twitter " the ready accusations " of the PNA . <p> " Hamas condemns the crime of targeting the Palestinian Prime Minister Rami Hamadallah , considering it part of the attempt aiming to destabilise security in Gaza and to foil efforts to achieve national unity , " it said . 
@@23657755 <h> Crashes delay Brisbane commuters <p> Brisbane commuters are facing long delays after multiple crashes on several major routes into and out of the city as well as the suspension of services on one train line . <p> The Bruce Highway north of Brisbane resembled a car park earlier on Wednesday after a crash involving a stolen car and several other vehicles around 4am on Wednesday . <p> Police are hunting for the driver of the stolen car , who fled soon after the crash at Burpengary , north of Brisbane . <p> The crash closed all southbound lanes of the highway , backing traffic for about nine kilometres to Caboolture at one point , before the lanes reopened before 7am . <p> The ambulance service says up to five vehicles were involved in the crash , with two patients taken to hospital with minor injuries . <p> Motorists travelling on the northbound lanes of the Pacific Motorway , in Brisbane 's south , have also been warned to expect long delays after a crash closed the two left lanes around the Gaza Road and Holland Park Road exits . 
@@23729363 <h> Frenchman suspected of gun-running had financial motive : Israeli official <p> JERUSALEM ( Reuters ) - A French employee of France 's consulate-general in Jerusalem held by Israel on suspicion of running guns for Palestinians had a financial motive , an Israeli security official said on Monday . <p> The official , who spoke to Reuters , did not elaborate . Israel 's Shin Bet security agency on Monday went public with the arrest of Romain Franck , accusing him of using a diplomatic car to smuggle 72 guns from the Gaza Strip to the West Bank . 
@@23780095 <h> Two Hamas security force members killed as Gaza bomb suspect arrested <p> Nuseirat ( Palestinian Territories ) ( AFP ) - Two Hamas security force members were killed Thursday as they carried out a raid that resulted in the arrest of a suspect in a recent bomb attack in Gaza against the Palestinian prime minister , officials said . <p> Senior Hamas official Salah al Bardawil issued a statement announcing the arrest of the suspect and two accomplices as well as the deaths of members of the security forces during the raid . <p> An AFP correspondent saw the bodies of two security force members at the hospital and a senior police officer at the scene also confirmed the deaths on condition of anonymity . <p> A clash had erupted earlier in the day in Nuseirat , south of Gaza City , as security forces from Hamas , the Islamist movement that runs the Gaza Strip , engaged in a manhunt for the suspect . <p> Dozens of new checkpoints were erected throughout the Palestinian enclave and armed security forces were searching cars , an AFP correspondent said . <p> Palestinian prime minister Rami Hamdallah was unhurt by the roadside bomb that struck his convoy on March 13 , in what Palestinian officials have called an assassination attempt as he entered Gaza on a rare visit . <p> The roadside bomb , believed to have around 15 kilogrammes ( 33 pounds ) , exploded a few hundred metres ( yards ) from the border with Israel , shortly after Hamdallah 's convoy entered the territory . A second bomb failed to explode , officials said . <p> - Failed reconciliation - <p> Hamas did not give a possible motive for the attack on Hamdallah , head of government in president Mahmud Abbas 's Palestinian Authority . <p> On Wednesday , a Hamas security source said investigators had arrested and were questioning three people , including two members of the PA-run intelligence services . <p> Another security source said he believed radical Salafist Muslims had planted the bomb , which lightly wounded six people . <p> On Monday , Abbas accused Hamas of being behind the blast and said he would take new measures in response , without specifying details . <p> Abbas has previously taken a series of measures , including reducing electricity payments for Gaza 's two million residents , in what analysts said was an attempt to punish Hamas . <p> Hamas and the West Bank-based PA have been bitter rivals for a decade since the Islamists seized control of Gaza . <p> The bombing appears to have brought to an end hopes for an already floundering reconciliation deal signed in October between Hamas and Abbas 's Fatah party , which dominates the PA . <p> While Hamas did hand over control of Gaza 's borders to the PA , it maintains full control of the rest of the territory , with its police force and armed wing still operating throughout . <p> The future of that armed wing has proved one of the largest sticking points in implementing the reconciliation agreement . <p> Previous attempts at reconciliation have failed . <p> Hamas has fought three wars with Israel since 2008 and is blacklisted as a terrorist organisation by the European Union and the United States . <p> Many hoped reconciliation could ease worsening humanitarian conditions in the Palestinian enclave , which suffers from electricity shortages and a lack of infrastructure , including clean water . 
@@23780129 <h> Suspect in Palestinian assassination attempt among four dead in Gaza shootout : Hamas <p> GAZA ( Reuters ) - Hamas said its security forces in Gaza shot dead on Thursday the main suspect behind an attempt to assassinate the Palestinian prime minister , a bombing that threatens to unravel its reconciliation agreement with the West Bank-based government . Two members of the Hamas security forces and one accomplice of the suspect also died in the shootout , the Hamas-led Gaza interior ministry said . The bombing of Prime Minister Rami Hamdallah 's convoy in Gaza last week dealt another blow to efforts to implement a unity deal between the two main Palestinian factions - Islamist Hamas , which dominates Gaza , and Fatah , the main party in the Palestinian Authority in the Israeli-occupied West Bank . The motorcade Hamdallah and Palestinian security chief Majid Faraj was attacked on March 13 shortly after it entered Gaza from neighboring Israel . They were uninjured . Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas had blamed Hamas for the explosion . After Thursday 's raid , a spokesman for Hamdallah 's government questioned Hamas 's version of events and again accused the group of bearing " full criminal responsibility " for the assassination attempt . " Once more , Hamas is going along the same path of ... fabricating weak stories that make no sense , " the spokesman , Youssef Al-Mahmoud , said . More than a decade after Hamas fighters drove the Palestinian Authority out of Gaza , Egypt has been brokering a reconciliation deal under which the PA would again assume administrative and security control in the territory of two million people . Hamdallah has been spearheading those efforts on behalf of the PA , with both sides still divided over how to share power in Gaza , where Hamas is still the strongest armed force . Abbas has argued that the assassination attempt proved that the agreement was failing and that Hamas could not be trusted . In a statement , the Hamas-run Interior Ministry in Gaza said its security forces investigating the assassination attempt had surrounded a hideout in the central region of the enclave and came under fire after demanding the suspects surrender . It said a man named Anas Abu Khoussa , whom it identified as the prime suspect in the bombing , was killed in the ensuing shootout , along with an accomplice and two Hamas security men . The ministry did not say whether Abu Khoussa was affiliated with any militant group . Abbas has offered no evidence of the involvement of Hamas in the attempt against Hamdallah 's life . But he said he did not trust Hamas to investigate the incident honestly and that there had been " zero " progress in the reconciliation . Hamas seized the Gaza Strip from forces loyal to Fatah in 2007 . The Palestinian reconciliation effort is opposed by Israel , which considers Hamas , a group dedicated to its destruction , an implacable foe . U.S.-brokered peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians collapsed in 2014 , in part over a unity deal that year between the PA and Hamas , as well as other issues . 
@@23781018 <h> Gaza bomb suspect , two Hamas security officers killed in raid <p> Nuseirat ( Palestinian Territories ) ( AFP ) - The man Hamas called the main suspect in a bomb attack against the Palestinian prime minister in Gaza was killed in an arrest raid on Thursday that also left two members of the Islamist movement 's security forces dead . <p> Gaza bomb suspect , two Hamas security officers killed in raid <p> One of chief suspect Anas Abu Koussa 's alleged accomplices in last week 's attack was also killed in the raid , according to Hamas . <p> The raid came after Hamas , which runs the Gaza Strip , launched a manhunt to search for the perpetrators of a roadside bomb that left prime minister Rami Hamdallah unhurt on March 13 . <p> But Hamdallah 's government , which has already accused Hamas of carrying out the bomb attack , immediately labelled the Islamist group 's version of events illogical . <p> Hamas 's interior ministry in Gaza earlier announced the deaths and said a third suspect was under arrest , but did not say what motivated Abu Koussa . <p> It named the two members of the security forced killed as Hammad Abu Swerah and Ziad al-Howajri . <p> They were killed when dozens of Hamas security force members raided the area of Nuseirat , south of Gaza City , early Thursday , to search for Abu Koussa . <p> A bloody firefight ensued , leaving the four men dead and a number of others wounded , officials said . <p> Dozens of new checkpoints were erected throughout the Palestinian enclave with armed security forces searching cars , while Hamas prevented all Palestinians from Gaza from crossing the border into Israel , AFP correspondents said . <p> A small number of Gazans are given permits to enter Israel , despite the Jewish state ? s crippling blockade of the enclave . <p> Islamists Hamas rule Gaza but Hamdallah leads the rival Palestinian government based in the West Bank under president Mahmud Abbas . <p> The two have been at odds since Hamas violently seized control of Gaza in 2007 and Abbas on Monday accused Hamas of carrying out the attack . <p> The bomb occurred during a rare visit by Hamdallah to Gaza as the two sides discuss a faltering peace deal . 
@@23781950 <h> Oasis of calm in shattered region , Dubai steps out as art hub <p> DUBAI ( Reuters ) - As traditional centers of modern Arab art in Damascus and Baghdad have imploded amid disastrous wars , the sheeny city-state of Dubai in the United Arab Emirates has stepped into the vacuum as a major hub for art sales . <p> But at the annual Art Dubai fair this week , some Mideast artists among the scores of worldwide participants channeled in paint the chaos swirling around this bubble of calm luxury . <p> Tucked among the mostly apolitical photography , sculpture and installation art adorning the vast open-plan space , black-and-white paintings of war scenes in the Gaza Strip -- devoid of people and any sharp detail -- stand out . <p> " It 's like a monster , is n't it ? " says Palestinian artist Aissa Deebi , holding his arms menacingly above his head in the rough shape of a fireball from an Israeli war plan he painted exploding on top of building . <p> " I turned images from the TV into oil on canvas , which has its history in this tradition going back to Goya and Picasso , " he added , alluding to the latter 's iconic image of chaos brought on by a bloody air raid on the Spanish town of Guernica . <p> Myrna Ayad , Art Dubai 's director , said the event featuring artists from 48 countries does not seek to dwell on the region 's miseries , but noted that as Dubai 's star has risen in the art world the art on offer can not flinch from harsh realities . <p> " The sad reality is that as Baghdad , Beirut , Damascus and even Cairo have suffered due to political and economic strife , the UAE is in a position to build on its openness and multicultural aspect to lead in the art scene . " <p> " Conflict and problems are n't all there is to art in the Middle East and our exhibition celebrates modernists and visionaries from here and all over the world ... artists do make incredible historians and documentarians , though " , Ayad added . <p> While she declined to name precise target for sales in the three-day event , she noted that works were on offer for between a few hundred and a few hundred thousand dollars : " There 's something for every pocket ! " <p> Ead Samawi knows that well . A partner from the Ayyam Gallery , he has sold most of their handful of war-themed canvases for between thirty and fifty thousand dollars each to clients ranging from the United States to Lebanon , and insists profit and painful subjects can go together . <p> Arranged in a tense jumble of colorful shapes and splotches forming the rough shape of buildings and people , the work of Syrian artist Tammam Azzam evokes the broken cityscapes and refugee throngs from his homeland . <p> " It 's not commodifying , this is human life : there 's war and migration that happens all over . Artists have always had their distinct , creative way of presenting it that people have been attracted to , " Samawi said . 
@@23823769 <h> UNHRC adopts five resolutions accusing Israel of human right abuses <p> The World Jewish Congress has decried the United Nations Human Rights Council 's adoption of five resolutions under agenda item 7 accusing Israel of human rights abuses and violations of international law in the Golan Heights and Palestinian territories . <p> Robert Singer <p> " The UN Human Rights Council has once again let its biased and obsessive focus on Israel plague its session with its persistence of a standing agenda item dedicated to accusing Israel of wrong-doing and the adoption of a disproportionate number of resolutions containing blatantly one-sided language , " said WJC CEO Robert Singer . <p> Singer praised the states that voted against the various resolutions , chief among them the United States and Australia which rejected each text , and welcomed the forceful statements against item 7 by both those countries and the United Kingdom , saying : " The World Jewish Congress is encouraged by the growing show of support from certain friends and allies of Israel , and urges this council to take heed of the warnings issued as to the discriminatory and biased focus of this agenda item . Those who recognize the unfair nature of this very item should vote against it time and again to strip it of any legitimacy once and for all . " <p> Particularly " absurd " among the resolutions , Singer said , was the text blaming Israel for the so-called ' suffering ' of Syrian citizens in the Golan Heights . " Israel has shown nothing but goodwill to both the Syrian Druze residents of northern Israel , who enjoy full and equal Israeli citizenship and civil liberties , as well as to the more than 3,000 wounded civilians treated in Israel since the beginning of the Syrian civil war . The very content of this resolution is preposterous and absurd . This council would do well to shift this misguided condemnation away from Israel and back to the Syrian government , where it belongs . " Singer welcomed the strong opposition shown by European Union states against the Golan resolution , noting the significantly higher number of 14 out of 47 rejections of this text compared to 3 last year . <p> Singer also expressed concern over the resolution assessing the human rights situation in the Palestinian territories , which , he said , " exonerates the Palestinian Authority and the Hamas rulers of the Gaza Strip of any responsibility . " <p> " Over the course of six pages the resolution cites unsubstantiated ' evidence ' of Israeli fault for the deteriorating situation in the territories , while ignoring the many human rights violations exhibited daily by the Palestinian leaders , " Singer said . " It turns a blind eye to the Palestinian Authority 's encouragement of terror and incitement to violence , to any corruption in both the PA and Hamas , and to the unfair treatment of women in Gaza . The resolution pays only lip service in its condemnation of rockets fired against Israel , without mentioning the facts that Hamas routinely uses civilians as human shields in these battles , in direct violation of international law . " <p> Moreover , Singer said , the World Jewish Congress is concerned by the council 's continued promotion of a database to single out Israeli and international companies operating in the Palestinian territories for blacklist , calling it a " counterproductive and discriminatory mechanism . " <p> " This database is glaring proof of the council 's fixation on Israel , " Singer said . " It is not only far beyond the remit of this council , but is also for all purposes a tacit endorsement of the Boycott , Divestment , and Sanctions Movement , serving only to embolden those whose sole aim is to delegitimize the State of Israel . " <p> " It is inconceivable that the UN Human Rights Council would devote its precious time to drafting and adopting five one-sided resolutions against Israel , while issuing only one each for notorious human rights abusers such as Iran , Myanmar and the DPRK , and just two for Syria , " Singer said . " We urge this council to immediately cease its vilification of Israel . This continued relentless focus on the world 's only Jewish state will serve only to undermine this council 's credibility and its mandate . " <p> Singer also noted with concern the fact that such a biased focus is not unique to the UNHRC alone : Later Friday , the UN Commission on the Status of Women is anticipated to adopt a resolution on the Situation of and Assistance to Palestinian Women , which singles out Israel for blame while disregarding the responsibility of Hamas or the Palestinian Authority . This is the only resolution of the commission targeting a specific country . <p> In the meantime The Zionist Federation of Australia ( ZFA ) has applauded Australia on its principled vote in the United Nations Human Rights Council ( UNHRC ) on Friday . <p> The UNHRC which counts human rights luminaries such as Saudi Arabia , Rwanda , Qatar and Iraq as members has an obsessive pre-occupation with Israel which resulted in the passage of yet another five resolutions against Israel -- the only country with a whole article devoted to its alleged breaches of human rights . Whilst eight countries including Britain abstained only four countries had the clarity of vision to vote against these biased resolutions . We are delighted that Australia -- who only joined the UNHRC this year -- was amongst those four . <p> President of the ZFA Dr Danny Lamm said " Australia , under the leadership of Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull and Foreign Minister Julie Bishop , has once again demonstrated its deep and abiding friendship toward Israel . It is not an easy or popular decision to take a stand in such a biased body and defend Israel and it is not a position that we take for granted . " <p> Visit J-Wire 's main page for all the latest breaking news , gossip and what 's on in your community . <h> Speak Your Mind <p> Comments received without a full name will not be consideredEmail addresses are NEVER published ! All comments are moderated . J-Wire will publish considered comments by people who provide a real name and email address . Comments that are abusive , rude , defamatory or which contain offensive language will not be published <p> A look at Saul Auslander , a Hungarian member of the Sonderkommando , the group of Jewish prisoners isolated from Auschwitz in 1944 who were forced to assist the Nazis by cremating the bodies of the dead . Read more 
@@23846856 <p> The winter calving season for critically endangered right whales is ending without a single newborn being spotted off the southeast US coast , a reproductive drought unseen for three decades that experts say brings the rare species a perilous step closer to extinction . <h> Israel launches Iron Dome in response to gun fire in Gaza <p> Israel has launched its Iron Dome anti-missile shield to protect the state from Palestinian machine gun fire originating in the Hamas-dominated Gaza strip . <p> Reuters reports flaming streams of about 10 Iron Dome rockets could be seen rising into the night sky on Sunday . <p> The Iron Dome is designed to intercept and destroy short-range rockets and artillery shells fired from distances of 4km to 70km . It boasts a detection and tracking radar , battle management and weapon control system and a missile firing unit . <p> A military spokeswoman told Reuters there was no indication that Islamist militants in Gaza had fired rockets . <p> " Following reports of sirens sounding in southern Israel , unusual machine gun fire towards Israel was identified . No rocket launches were identified . The ( military ) is looking into the circumstances which led to the activation of the Iron Dome system , " an army statement said . <p> Hamas denied reports rockets had been fired into Israel after Israel media had reported that Iron Dome had intercepted a number of rockets fired from the Gaza Strip . <p> According to Israeli media , Sunday 's multiple launchings from Iron Dome were the most intense since the Gaza war in 2014. 
@@23848283 <p> Israel 's military fired off a salvo of ten or so missile interceptors in a bizarre mistake that likely cost the country around a half million dollars . <p> Israel said it mistook machine gun fire and sirens for rocket launches , which is a pretty bizarre mistake to make . <p> Israel 's military fired off a salvo of ten or so missile interceptors in a bizarre mistake that likely cost the country around a half million dollars . <p> Israel activated its Iron Dome missile defence shield on Sunday night , and videos on social media show at least 10 missiles streaking across the night sky . <p> But the missiles were fired in error , Israel later admitted . <p> " Following reports of sirens sounding in southern Israel , unusual machine gun fire towards Israel was identified . No rocket launches were identified . The ( military ) is looking into the circumstances which led to the activation of the Iron Dome system , " a statement from Israel 's army said . <p> A Hamas spokesperson also told Reuters that no rockets had been fired towards Israel <p> Israel 's Iron Dome missile shield is composed of multiple different missile defence systems and batteries , and none of them run cheap . It 's likely the missiles cost anywhere from $US40,000 to $US90,000 each . <p> Typically , the Iron Dome has a high rate of success and is one of the world 's more battle-tested , effective missile defences . Machine gun fire and sirens , while loud , hardly match the profile of a rocket launch , and is n't entirely uncommon around the Gaza strip , making it a bizarre mistake to make . <p> In warfare , it 's common for adversaries to use cost imposing strategies against each other . Prompting hundreds of thousands of dollars in Israeli missile launches with some cheap machine gun fire would be an extremely efficient execution of such a strategy . 
@@23850656 <p> JERUSALEM ( Reuters ) - The number of Jews and Arabs between the Mediterranean Sea and Jordan River is at or near parity , figures cited by Israeli officials show , raising questions whether Israel can remain a democracy if it keeps territory where Palestinians seek a state . The population statistics were mentioned in an Israeli parliamentary statement on Monday summing up legislators ' questioning of an official of Israel 's military-run civil administration ( COGAT ) that coordinates government activities in the Israeli-occupied West Bank and in the Gaza Strip . Demography is studied closely on both sides of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict because of its potential implications for both societies as they weigh possible solutions as Israel celebrates its 70th anniversary next month . With over a " two-state solution " frozen since 2014 , some argue that if Israel becomes a binational state through annexation of land seized 51 years ago , it could one day be forced to choose between remaining a democracy or securing a Jewish majority by denying Palestinians the vote . " We estimate the ( Palestinian ) population in Judea and Samaria at between 2.5 million and 2.7 million , " Colonel Uri Mendes , COGAT 's deputy director , using Israel 's term for the West Bank , told a session of the Knesset 's Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee . He noted that a Palestinian census put the figure even higher , at 3 million . Avi Dichter , the committee 's chairman and a former head of Israel 's Shin Bet security service , responded that with the addition of Gaza 's 2 million Palestinians , that meant there was now a total of about five million Palestinians living in the two territories that fell to Israel in the 1967 Middle East war . Taking the higher end of the Israeli figures cited and adding them to the 1.84 million Arabs living inside Israel , according to Israel 's Central Bureau of Statistics ( CBS ) , would bring the total number of Arabs in Israel and the Israeli-occupied territories to around 6.5 million . This is around the same number of Jews living between the Jordan Valley and Mediterranean , according to the CBS . Jewish settlements in occupied territory Palestinians seek for a state have also dimmed Palestinian hopes of a viable and contiguous country of their own with East Jerusalem as its capital . Palestinians also fear their quest for statehood suffered another blow when U.S. President Donald Trump recognized Jerusalem as Israel 's capital in December . <p> SETTLERS DISPUTE DATA Israeli settlers immediately disputed the population figures , citing one study that put the number of Palestinians in the West Bank at 1.8 million . " The slanted publication about Arab demography in Judea , Samaria and the Jordan Valley relies on data from the Palestinian statistics bureau which are not true or accurate . They ( Palestinians ) have an interest in inflating the numbers , " settler spokesman Yigal Dilmoni said . But Ahmed Tibi , an Arab legislator in the Israeli parliament , described the figures as accurate and " well known to us for a long time " . Without the creation of a Palestinian state , Tibi said , Israel will be headed toward a " one-state solution " embracing either " apartheid or an Arab-Palestinian prime minister " . Ofer Shelah , a committee member from the opposition centrist Yesh Atid party , said it is clear the Jewish majority between the Jordan River and the Mediterranean is " precarious " . " From a demographic perspective , if Israel does not part with the Palestinians then there is real danger to realizing the Zionist dream of a Jewish and democratic Israel , " Shelah told Reuters . Sergio DellaPergola , a demographer and professor emeritus at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem , said one state taking in two nations was not viable . " The answer is separation , the answer is manifestly separation . Two countries for two people , which of course has to be negotiated , " said DellaPergola . Underlying political dynamics , he said , are more important than exact population percentages . 
@@23905375 <p> The 2018 Marxism conference kicked off in Melbourne tonight . More than four hundred people packed into the Collingwood Town Hall to hear a panel of activists and socialists talk about " Fifty years since 1968 : Rebuilding global resistance to capitalism " . <p> Gavin Stanbrook , Indigenous activist and member of Socialist Alternative , opened things up by outlining the acute oppression faced by Indigenous people in Australia today . But oppression breeds resistance and solidarity too . Gavin , one of the organisers and featured speakers at this year 's Invasion Day rally in Sydney , recalled the record crowds turning out on the streets as an indication of the growing groundswell of opposition to the annual celebration of genocide on 26 January . <p> The next speaker on tonight 's panel was Geoff Bailey , a socialist activist and filmmaker based in Brooklyn , New York . The US was central to the 1960s radicalisation . Organising against the Vietnam War on American campuses , in the military and in workplaces built on the foundations established by the civil rights movement in the 1950s and early 1960s and , together with the Black Power movement and the outbreak of massive urban riots predominantly by African-Americans , radicalised a new generation . By the end of the decade , millions in the States identified as revolutionaries , having shaken off the liberal illusions that dominated the movement just a few short years previously . <p> American capitalism , however , was still booming and living standards rising in the late Sixties . Today , things are much worse for the mass of the population . Conditions for workers have gone backwards after decades of neoliberal attacks and , with Trump in the White House , the right has gone on the offensive . But at the same time socialism has made a comeback , evident in the mass resonance for the Sanders campaign in 2016 . The 12-day strike by West Virginia teachers last month is an indication that the working class in America can be organized to fight , once again . But for fights like these to take root , the struggle has to be organised and for that , socialist organisation is necessary . Building the foundations for such organisation , Geoff argued , is the task ahead of us today . <p> Shaun Harkin , from Derry , birthplace of the civil rights movement in Ireland in 1968 , was our third speaker . Shaun , editor of a forthcoming collection of readings by Irish socialist James Connolly , explained that the North had been a bedrock of conservatism and political passivity for decades leading up to the great explosion of struggle in 1968 . In the following years , the north of Ireland experienced one of the most dramatic radicalisations in the world as the Catholic minority , oppressed by the Unionist hierarchy and inspired by the US civil rights movement , went out into the streets to demand their rights and an end to discrimination . Police violence only emboldened them and drove them to make more far-reaching demands . Today , after the so-called " Irish Tiger " economy has well and truly bust and with workers subjected to years of grinding austerity , popular resistance is growing and socialism is again winning an audience in Ireland . <p> Following our two international guests , the evening featured two more Australian speakers . Mick Armstrong spoke about his own experiences as a teenage radical in 1968 . The Vietnamese Tet Offensive in February and the Paris student and worker revolt in May enthused Mick and thousands of others like him across the country . These big international developments ratcheted up of the anti-Vietnam war campaign in Australia , most evident in the dramatic protest outside the US consulate in Melbourne on 4 July . The subsequent flourishing of anti-war activism included mass resistance to conscription and hiding draft resisters on campus , along with the huge national demonstrations against the war in 1970 and 1971 . Vietnam raised questions about how the whole of Australian society was organised : about the racism underpinning the war , about the huge profits piled up by big corporations selling military supplies , about how a government could send young Australians off to a distant conflict to die in their hundreds . Young people in particular increasingly looked to socialist politics for answers to their questions . <p> Like Ireland , the upsurge of unrest in Australia came out of a period of stifling Cold War conservatism in society , including on the university campuses , demonstrating that even in periods of apparent political passivity , dissatisfaction with society can well up beneath the surface , creating the conditions for mass outrage and mobilisation on the streets . The movement against the war and on the campuses intersected with a rising tide of working class struggle . Two major strikes in 1968 and 1969 blew apart the government 's attempts to intimidate the unions and sparked off the biggest strike wave in decades . <p> Diane Fieldes an activist in Sydney since the early 1970s , rounded off the speeches . Diane argued that the promises of the 1960s radical movements have not been fulfilled . The world is still scarred by war and imperialist occupation , and capitalism continues to generate extreme inequality . The Turnbull government has made clear it stands on the side of the rich , trying to push through corporate tax cuts while attacking welfare recipients . Racism towards refugees and Muslims is simply its way of trying to deflect popular opposition to its right-wing agenda . <p> But the Labor party is no genuine alternative , Diane argued . Here in Victoria , the Andrews government says that it can not fund hospitals while diverting hundreds of millions of dollars to build more prisons and recruit more police , to tackle a non-existent and highly racialized " crime wave " . Diane pointed to the campaign by the Victorian Socialists at this year 's state election as an alternative to the anti-working class politics of Labor and the conservatives alike . <p> While the economic crisis of 2008-09 was less severe in Australia than elsewhere , life for the working class has become more difficult , Diane explained . And although the political polarisation between left and right that has seen fascists and right wing nationalists poll strongly in Europe and Trump come to office in the US , has not flowed through as dramatically in Australia , we are not isolated from these tendencies . Pauline Hanson is back in parliament and her party won 14 percent of the vote at the recent state election in Queensland . Plenty of people across the country despise the whole political set-up and are utterly cynical about politicians of all stripes . <p> But to shift politics in Australia we have to fight back , Diane insisted : " To resist the injustices we see all around us , we need to take a stand wherever we are . We need to be on the front lines organising protests , occupations and strikes to demand change " . The marriage equality campaign last year was just one example of such a struggle : when there is a clear polarisation , people can respond to the opportunity to act . <p> Socialist politics is essential in these fights , half measures are n't enough . Diane argued : " We need an alternative that does n't politically accept the framework of capitalism , that is anti-capitalist to its core " . But socialist organisation will not emerge fully formed at the next outbreak of mass struggle . We need to prepare today by taking the steps to build such an organisation , armed with the radical vision spelled out by the students of Paris in 1968 , " Be realistic , demand the impossible ! " . <p> Coming up over the weekend <p> Tonight was just the start of a festival of talks , debate , discussion and cultural events . <p> Marxism 2018 comprises more than 100 individual sessions and runs all the way from the morning of Good Friday through to Sunday night . Geoff Bailey and Shaun Harkin , who appeared tonight , will also be giving talks over the weekend . Geoff will be speaking with special guest , Bhaskar Sunkara , founding editor of Jacobin magazine , on Friday morning , on " Politics and resistance in Trump 's America " . Jacobin has established itself as one of the premier journals of the international left and publishes the work of leading left wing thinkers and activists from the US and around the world . Shaun Harkin will be joining forces with Socialist Alternative 's industrial organiser Jerome Small on Saturday afternoon to address the question " Why should you be a socialist ? " and will also be speaking on " Corbyn , Brexit and British Labour today " on Sunday afternoon . <p> Other international highlights include Huwaida Arraf , Palestinian American activist and founder of the International Solidarity Movement . Huwaida is a well-known figure in Palestinian solidarity circles . She took part in several flotillas to Gaza in 2009 to try to break the Israeli blockade of the Gaza Strip and to bring the issue to international attention . She now lives in Detroit and runs civil rights legal cases against police brutality in the States . Huwaida will be speaking on Friday afternoon on " International solidarity and the struggle for a free Palestine " . <p> The struggle in Catalonia has been in the headlines in recent months and with the Catalonian leader Carles Puigdemont just arrested by German police while in exile in Europe , the presence of Catalonian socialist Josep Maria Antentas at the conference could not be more timely . Josep is a lecturer at the Autonomous University of Barcelona and has been a participant in successive waves of social protest and rebellion in the Spanish state since the late 1990s . He will be speaking on " Spain and the struggle for Catalonia " on Sunday morning and , on Saturday , on " Podemos and the new left in Spain " . <p> Radical American activist Becca Bor , now resident in Derry , recently took part in massive demonstrations in Dublin and Belfast demanding reproductive rights for women in both the North and South of Ireland . She was formerly a teacher in Chicago and participated in the 2012 Chicago mass public education strike . Becca will be speaking on " Lessons from struggle : the West Virginia teachers strike " on Friday afternoon and " Free , safe and legal : the fight for abortion rights in Ireland " on Sunday morning . <p> Marxism also welcomes back a regular visitor from the Philippines who will be speaking on " Rodrigo Duterte : South East Asia 's Trump " . Our guest is involved in labour struggles in Manila against outsourcing and casualisation . <p> Alper Sen , a Turkish film-maker , will be another welcome speaker . Alper makes films about Turkey 's contemporary urban life , including gentrification , forced migration , refugees , and the fate of those pushed to the margins by urban renewal . Alper 's films have been screened to audiences across Europe . He will be talking on " From coups to capitulation : politics in Turkey today " on Friday morning . <p> But it 's not just international speakers who will be making Marxism 2018 the place to be over the Easter weekend . <p> Helen Razer , former Triple J radio announcer , now regular contributor to Crikey , the Saturday Paper , New Matilda and author of the just-published " Total Propaganda : Basic Marxist Brainwashing for the Angry and the Young " , will be teaming up with Safe Schools activist Roz Ward to discuss contemporary politics and what pisses them off about the politicians and commentators who dominate mainstream political discourse in Australia today . <p> On Friday afternoon , Marxism 2018 will launch the campaign of the newly-formed Victorian Socialists who will be standing in the November state election for Northern Metro . All three candidates on the ticket , including well-known Yarra councillor Stephen Jolly , will be speaking at the session " For people , not the powerful : Victorian Socialists in the state election " . <p> Racism and anti-racism will be a theme of many talks . Gavin Stanbrook will be back on Friday at 9.30am to speak on a panel with Melbourne Indigenous socialist Kim Bullimore on the topic " No pride in genocide ! " <p> Australia is known internationally not just for its oppression of Indigenous people but also of refugees . Indeed , the offshore detention system is now a model for several right-wing European governments . On Friday morning , come and listen to Taqi Khan , a Hazara refugee from Afghanistan , and Jayesh Maharaj from Sydney speak on " Fortress Australia : the global refugee crisis " . <p> Taqi Khan also works with the National Union of Workers ( NUW ) in Victoria to organise farmworkers . These farmworkers are usually migrants cruelly exploited by contractors in a supply chain leading all the way to the big retail chains which make billions of dollars in profits from their sweated labour . Taqi will be speaking with other NUW activists at the session " Organising migrant farm workers today " on Sunday at 4pm . <p> Tamil refugees from Biloela Nades , Priya and their two children , at imminent threat of deportation to Sri Lanka by Peter Dutton 's department , are now drawing the support of tens of thousands of people , from small town Queensland to big city Melbourne , opposed to their deportation . The persecution faced by Tamils in Sri Lanka will feature in a special panel on " The Tamil Tigers and national liberation " . This session will include activists for Tamil rights now living in Australia and a hook-up with a speaker in Sri Lanka . <p> One of the most popular features of the Marxism conference every year is the Marxism 101 stream of talks which explain the basics of socialism . There will be no fewer than 11 Marxism 101 talks , ranging from " Can you create change from inside the system ? " and " How do Marxists understand class ? " to " Workers ' power in the German revolution " and " Everything you wanted to know about socialism but were too afraid to ask " . Be sure to get to your seat early for these sessions since they are invariably packed . <p> Marxism 2018 also incorporates a comprehensive cultural program . The conference will include an exhibition of the work of American documentary photographer Tracie Williams whose " Feed The Flame " exhibition documents the final three weeks leading up to the eviction of the main resistance camp of the indigenous led movement against the Dakota Access Pipeline in the US in 2016 . A launch event will take place on Friday at 5.45pm featuring words from Tracie Williams and a video link up with Ragina Johnson , a First Nations activist in the International Socialist Organization in San Francisco . The exhibition will be open throughout the conference . Entry to the gallery is free with all conference tickets . <p> Marxism 2018 , together with Jacobin magazine , is also co-hosting " Reason in Revolt : Socialist aesthetics for the 21st century " , a special exhibition of Jacobin magazine cover art and design . The gallery will be open throughout the conference and will be introduced at a special session by Jacobin editor Bhaskar Sunkara on Saturday at 5.30pm . All conference tickets include entrance to the exhibition or a door price of $10 will be available for the event on Saturday only . <p> And , finally , Radical Reels , a collection of radical films and a regular feature of every Marxism conference , is back again in 2018 . The focus this year , of course , is films made in or about 1968 . These include a string of film screenings with a focus on the radical politics of 1968 , one of which " Vietnam : the year of the pig " will be introduced by a veteran of the American and Australian anti-Vietnam war movements , Allen Myers . Liam Ward , a socialist and RMIT media studies lecturer , will also be back at Marxism to give one of his popular curated presentations , this year exploring " The breathless decade : cinema and revolutionary politics after 1968 " . Entrance to the Radical Reels film festival can be bought as part of your Marxism ticket or as a stand-alone ticket . <p> The Marxism conference will also host Australia 's largest left wing book sale , with thousands of books and pamphlets to choose from , including all aspects of left wing politics , history and literature , both fiction and non-fiction . Be sure to bring a big bag to carry away your haul . <p> The Marxism conference starts every morning , Friday through Sunday , at 9.30am . The venue is the Victorian College of the Arts on Southbank . Tickets are available at the registration desk from 9am at the VCA Grant Street theatre in Grant Street , South Melbourne , and more details about the conference , including a full program , are available at **25;120;TOOLONG 
@@23907252 <h> Gazans pitch protest tents on Israel border as tensions mount <p> Gaza City ( Palestinian Territories ) ( AFP ) - Palestinians in Gaza pitched tents near the volatile border with Israel on Thursday ahead of a six-week protest camp under the gaze of wary Israeli soldiers . <p> Gazans pitch protest tents on Israel border as tensions mount <p> The exceptional protest is dubbed " The Great March of Return " and has the backing of the Gaza Strip 's Islamist rulers Hamas . <p> The protest comes amid rising tensions as the United States prepares to move its Israel embassy to Jerusalem . <p> Organisers said it would be peaceful but Israeli officials are wary of a fresh flare-up along the enclave 's border . <p> Armed forces chief Lieutenant General Gadi Eisenkot has warned of escalating tensions along Israel 's borders , " especially among the Palestinians " . <p> Eisenkot said reinforcements , including more than 100 special forces snipers , had been deployed to the Gaza frontier and the army was prepared for all scenarios . <p> " We wo n't allow mass infiltration into Israel " or damage to the border barrier , he told the Yediot Aharonot newspaper . <p> " The instructions are to use a lot of force . " <p> The first protest will kick off on Friday when Palestinians worldwide mark Land Day , commemorating the killing of six unarmed Arab protesters in Israel in 1976 . <p> Camping and protests in Gaza are expected to continue until mid-May , around the time the US is set to inaugurate its controversial new embassy in Jerusalem . <p> Mid-May will also mark the anniversary of the Nakba , or catastrophe , which saw hundreds of thousands flee their homes in the 1948 war surrounding the creation of Israel . <p> According to the United Nations , some 1.3 million of Gaza 's 1.9 million residents are refugees or their descendants . <p> -'Return home ' - <p> Khaled al-Batsh , part of the committee planning the protest , said tents would be located 500 metres ( yards ) from the border , just outside the buffer zone between Gaza and Israel . <p> Water facilities were being installed and medical teams deployed to allow people to stay for long periods . <p> Organisers said tens of thousands of people would attend Friday 's protest , although it was not clear how the estimate was reached . <p> Batsh said protestors were calling for Palestinians to be allowed to return to land that is now inside Israel . <p> " 70 years ago we left and today we have decided to return to our country , " he told AFP . <p> But senior Hamas figure Salah Bardawil said that while protesters might breach the border , they were not planning to do so . <p> Hamas officials say they will monitor the area beyond the camp sites to prevent protesters going too close to the frontier , at least during the initial days of the protest . <p> Five main camp sites have been set up , spanning the length of the coastal territory from near the Erez border crossing in the north to Rafah in the far south , near Egypt . <p> Campers will be within sight of the border , frequently patrolled by Israeli soldiers . <p> On Thursday , around 20 family tents were pitched at a site near Erez , alongside two larger community tents for performances including the traditional Palestinian " dabke " dance . <p> At another site , young men were putting the finishing touches on dozens of wooden toilets , while large generators whirred into life . <p> Another organiser , Tahir Sawirki , told AFP Palestinians would gather Friday in groups representing the towns they left in 1948 . <p> He said tens of thousands of meals would be prepared for more than 100,000 expected participants . <p> The White House 's decision to recognise Jerusalem as Israel 's capital , in a break with decades of international diplomacy , infuriated much of the Arab world . <p> Palestinians claim the city 's Israeli-annexed eastern sector as the capital of their future state . <p> The Palestinian leadership cut ties with the administration of President Donald Trump after he announced the move . <p> On Wednesday , Israeli tanks fired at Hamas positions in Gaza after heavy gunfire from the enclave , roadside bombs targeting border patrols and an incursion by three armed Palestinians , who penetrated some 20 kilometres ( 12 miles ) into Israel before being captured . <p> Two more Palestinians armed with knifes were detained after sneaking across the border Thursday , the Israeli army said . 
@@23911244 <h> The ' March of Return ' explains a lot <p> For some in the Palestinians ' international cheering squad , the March 30 " Land Day " demonstrations could be a long-hoped for turning point ... writes Jonathan S. Tobin/JNS . <p> Jonathan S. Tobin <p> If the massive protests planned for the Gaza border go off on Friday without violence , then the battle against Israel will , they hope , no longer be depicted as one primarily about terrorism . <p> Instead , it will be portrayed as a civil-rights struggle comparable to the one waged in the United States against segregation . <p> But there are a few problems with that formulation . <p> The first is that the organization planning this " nonviolent " demonstration is Hamas -- an Islamist terror group , not the NAACP . Violence is part of Hamas 's raison d ' ? tre , so expecting any action associated with the group to be completely divorced from violence is a long shot . The purpose of any march on a heavily armed border where terror incidents are a regular occurrence will likely be to provoke the Israel Defense Forces into acting to prevent the security fence around Gaza from being beached . The goal will be to produce more " martyrs " among those the terror group already uses as human shields so as to further embitter the conflict , not to effect change . <p> The key question about these demonstrations is not whether efforts to cross into Israel will lead to bloodshed . The most significant thing about the " Land Day " rally is its theme : " the Great March of Return . " The Palestinian emphasis on the concept of " return " is n't merely a marketing slogan ; it 's a reminder that 70 years after Israel 's birth , the Palestinians are still clinging to the idea of eliminating the Jewish state . <p> File photo : Palestinians wave a flag near the border fence east of Kahn Yunis in the southern Gaza Strip , on May 19 , 2017 . Photo by Abed Rahim Khatib/ Flash90 <p> Land Day protests date back to a violent dispute about the Israeli government 's expropriation of land in the Galilee in 1976 . Arabs owned only about a third of the property used for security and settlement purposes that was seized in exchange for compensation . However , the demonstrations that led to bloodshed were a pivotal moment in the never-ending effort to resist Zionism . From that moment on , Land Day became part of the annual effort to mobilize both Israeli Arabs and Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza to resist Israel . <p> But the notion of " return " is significant because it bases the Palestinians grievances against Israel not in the question of West Bank settlements or a desire for two states , after which they would gain independence . Instead , it places the argument about the Middle East conflict firmly on the question of whether Israel has a right to exist in the first place . Return is n't merely a code word for eliminating the Jewish state . It is a pledge made by the leaders of both Hamas and the supposedly more moderate Palestinian Authority -- that no peace with Israel will be made that does n't recognize the right of descendants of the 1948 refugees to go back to their original homes . In other words , no peace as long as there is an Israel . <p> As delusional as the entire concept of trying to undo the last seven decades of history may be , the reason why " return " remains part of the lexicon of the conflict is that it remains an inextricable part of not just Palestinian politics , but Palestinian national identity . <p> It is true that at times , both P.A. leader Mahmoud Abbas and even Hamas have flirted with the notion of two states , in which Palestinian nationalism would focus on the West Bank and Gaza rather than on pre-1967 Israel . Abbas even acknowledged at one point that he is n't going back to Tzfat , the city in the Galilee where his family comes from . Hamas has said it was willing to accept a peace deal whereby Palestinian statehood would be established in the West Bank and Gaza . Yet both have also continued to talk of " return " as being more than lip service paid to the issue , in which a token number of Palestinians would be allowed to enter Israel as part of an agreement . Even if you believed -- faced with all evidence to the contrary -- that despite their repeated rejections of two-state offers from Israel the Palestinians want such a solution , they are keeping the refugees in their back pocket in order to justify resumption of the conflict even after a two-state pact was signed . <p> That 's a message that falls on the deaf ears of those who are determined to blame the lack of peace on the Israeli government . <p> As has been the case throughout the last 70 years , the debate about how to resolve the conflict in Western forums invariably focuses on Israel , while ignoring both Palestinian intentions and actions . Those who wish only to blame Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu or Jewish settlers turn a blind eye to the rejectionist ideology behind " return " or even the unwillingness of the P.A. to stop funding terror . Indeed , the passage this week of the Taylor Force Act by Congress , which linked U.S. aid to the Palestinians to ceasing that funding , resulted in the P.A. announcing that it would resume direct payments to terrorists rather than resorting to the subterfuge of indirect measures . <p> Deciding whether Abbas 's Fatah Party or even Hamas is prevented from accepting peace by the refugees , or whether the Palestinian groups ' ongoing efforts to keep the idea of return alive in the minds of their people , is a chicken-and-egg sort of question . In the end , it does n't matter whether the despair of the refugees -- generations of Arabs who have been deliberately kept in refugee camps as opposed to being resettled in order to keep the war on Zionism alive -- is a greater stumbling block than the way Fatah and Hamas exploit them to avoid making peace . <p> This week 's " great march " is n't about symbolism or nonviolence . It 's about a Palestinian refusal to admit defeat in a century-old war that they 've already lost . The fact remains that as long as Palestinians are still talking about " return , " anything resembling peace just is n't on the horizon . <p> Jonathan S. Tobin is editor in chief of JNS -- the Jewish News Syndicate . Follow him on Twitter at : @jonathanstobin . <p> Visit J-Wire 's main page for all the latest breaking news , gossip and what 's on in your community . <h> Speak Your Mind <p> Comments received without a full name will not be consideredEmail addresses are NEVER published ! All comments are moderated . J-Wire will publish considered comments by people who provide a real name and email address . Comments that are abusive , rude , defamatory or which contain offensive language will not be published <p> A look at Saul Auslander , a Hungarian member of the Sonderkommando , the group of Jewish prisoners isolated from Auschwitz in 1944 who were forced to assist the Nazis by cremating the bodies of the dead . Read more 
@@23919963 <h> Kill or be killed : Terror is the sole tool of Hamas <p> After Israel buried another two young soldiers -- Sgt. Netanel Kahalani , 20 , and Capt . Ziv Deus , 21 , who were killed on March 16 by a Palestinian terrorist after he rammed his car into a group of soldiers ( two others were injured in the attack ) along a road southwest of Jenin -- Israeli troops on the border with Gaza blew up two more tunnels built with the intent of allowing terrorists to again enter the Jewish state . <p> Fiamma Nirenstein <p> Two days later , more blood was spilled , this time in an attack in Jerusalem 's Old City . Adiel Coleman , a 32-year-old Israel father of four ( initially identified as a security guard ) , was standing outside the entrance of the Western Wall -- one of Israel 's most symbolic places -- when he was stabbed in the chest and belly ; he succumbed to his wounds on Sunday night . The terrorist was chased down and immediately killed at the scene . The assailant was identified as Abd al-Rahman Bani Fadel , 28 , a father of two from the village of Aqraba , near Nablus , was perhaps inspired by the magnificent opportunity to kill a Jew at Temple Mount , which is known to Muslims as " the Noble Sanctuary . " <p> It 's time to stop talking about " lone wolves " ; this boils down to Palestinian incitement . <p> The Palestinians strategic use of terrorism is widely accepted among the masses . It accounts for thousands of deaths , it attacks Jewish sovereignty , and it aims to terrorise not solely some people , but a whole people by inducing it to fight in order to free the Islamic Ummah . This choice , nourished by religious precepts related to jihad -- that of shaheed , " martyrs " -- has infected the entire Muslim world . This is the main task that it has set its sights upon -- not to build a state , which the Palestinians have refused three times , despite the fact that those deals would have included Jerusalem . Why wo n't return to the negotiation table with Israel in order to discuss U.S. President Donald Trump 's new proposal ? Instead , they prefer to continue the threat of new bloodshed , which they 're practicing day after day because they see it as the only viable alternative . <p> The terrorist who accelerated upon the four soldiers as they were walking on the edge of the road and then backed up to further crush those he hit was a youth from Barta'a , near Jenin ; Alaa Kabha , 26 , a released security prisoner , is now again in jail . It 's hard to keep wolves at bay ; alas , " wolves " are a hungry bunch . <p> Netanel Kahalani and Ziv Deus <p> In 2017 alone , Israel prevented 1,300 attacks without any organisational support , and the year before that 2,200 . Clearly , Israel 's security establishment learned this year how to thwart these attacks before they happened , but this time their efforts were n't enough . Kabha had the honor of carrying out his attack on the 100-day anniversary of Trump 's recognition of Jerusalem as Israel 's capital . There are plenty of anniversaries , and you can be sure that they will all be celebrated by Fatah and Hamas , along with the " sacrifice " of terrorists , who when imprisoned , will receive a salary . If killed , his family will receive that money . <p> Fatah posters featuring machine guns and clenched fists to extol the use of violence , and invites Palestinians to use weapons . A song incites , " I come out to you , my enemy , from every home , neighborhood and street ... . " On March 30 , Hamas has declared demonstrations as part of " Land Day " that will continue up to Israel 's 70th anniversary , on May 14 , when the American Embassy will move from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem . <p> The strategy of Palestinian Authority leader Mahmoud Abbas ( Abu Mazen ) is constantly in competition with Hamas , which recently attempted , it appears , to assassinate his prime minister , Rami Hamdallah , while on a visit this month to the Gaza Strip . It is entirely predicated on " no 's " : " no " to talks , " no " to any proposal made by Trump , and " no " to reducing its onslaught of attacks against Israel ( as it did at the United Nations by shamelessly stating that Israel is a Western colonialist project that has nothing to do with Jewish history ) . <p> But more than anything else , Fatah and Hamas encourage killing and being killed . Terror is their only weapon , even if it is badly hidden behind diplomatic instruments , like the request for recognition or through propaganda activities such as the Boycott , Divestment and Sanctions ( BDS ) movement , which , in fact , continues to conceal terror and feed it . <p> Journalist Fiamma Nirenstein was a member of the Italian Parliament ( 2008-13 ) , where she served as vice president of the Committee on Foreign Affairs in the Chamber of Deputies , served in the Council of Europe in Strasbourg , and established and chaired the Committee for the Inquiry Into Anti-Semitism . A founding member of the international Friends of Israel Initiative , she has written 13 books , including " Israel Is Us " ( 2009 ) . Currently , she is a fellow at the Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs . <p> Translation by Amy Rosenthal . <p> Visit J-Wire 's main page for all the latest breaking news , gossip and what 's on in your community . <h> Speak Your Mind <p> Comments received without a full name will not be consideredEmail addresses are NEVER published ! All comments are moderated . J-Wire will publish considered comments by people who provide a real name and email address . Comments that are abusive , rude , defamatory or which contain offensive language will not be published <p> A look at Saul Auslander , a Hungarian member of the Sonderkommando , the group of Jewish prisoners isolated from Auschwitz in 1944 who were forced to assist the Nazis by cremating the bodies of the dead . Read more 
@@23928823 <h> Palestinians killed at start of month-long protest at Gaza border <h> By Jonathan Ferziger <p> 31 March 2018 -- 9:22am <p> Tel Aviv : A mass protest of thousands of Palestinians along Gaza 's border with Israel , billed as peaceful by its Hamas organisers , erupted in violence overnight , with at least 15 Palestinians killed and several hundred wounded in clashes with Israeli soldiers . <p> Friday marked the beginning of six weeks of protests Hamas had planned against Israel and the Palestinian displacement surrounding its 1948 creation . The demonstrations began with tent camps set up 800 metres from Gaza 's 40-kilometre frontier with Israel ; the climax is to come in mid-May with a mass march to the border that Israel fears will become an attempt to breach its territory . <p> Palestinian protesters evacuate a wounded youth during clashes with Israeli troops along the Gaza Strip border with Israel , on Friday . <p> Photo : AP <p> Hamas leaders presented the initiative as a peaceful effort , though they readily conceded it might get out of hand . It did just that within hours , as demonstrators threw rocks and firebombs and rolled burning tires at Israeli soldiers , who responded with tear gas , rubber bullets and live ammunition . <p> The Israeli army , which put the crowd size at more than 20,000 , said riots broke out at five locations along the border , and Army Radio reported that some 900 Palestinians were demonstrating in solidarity in the West Bank . <p> Advertisement <p> Palestinian protesters run from tear gas after Israeli troops fired canisters at the crowd . <p> Photo : AP <p> Fifteen Palestinians were killed on Friday while more than 1400 were injured , according to Gaza 's Hamas-run Health Ministry . The army spokesman said militants approached the fence from the northern Gaza border and fired at Israeli soldiers , prompting the army to fire back and target three additional Hamas sites . <p> Earlier , the army said militants tried to plant explosives along the border under cover of the protests and in one case sent a seven-year-old girl to the fence in an apparent attempt to draw Israeli fire , but soldiers understood what was happening and returned the girl to her parents . <p> In a message , Abbas announced a day of national mourning on Saturday . <p> ' Hostile March ' <p> Violence against Israel has surged in recent weeks . Palestinians , who demand the eastern part of Jerusalem as their own capital , have been storming the Gaza fence and planting bombs targeting Israeli soldiers , drawing retaliatory fire and air strikes . Palestinians broke through the fence on at least four occasions this week , including one group armed with knives and grenades that penetrated more than 15 kilometres inside Israel before being apprehended . At least five Israelis have been killed in stabbing and car-ramming attacks in Jerusalem and the West Bank in recent weeks . <p> Jason Greenblatt , who is helping spearhead a US peace effort , accused Hamas of instigating a " hostile march " to spark a confrontation . <p> " Hamas should focus instead on desperately needed improvements to the lives of Palestinians in Gaza instead of inciting violence against Israel that only increases hardship and undermines chances for peace , " Greenblatt tweeted . <p> Palestinian protesters try to evacuate a wounded woman during clashes with Israeli troops along the Gaza Strip border . <p> Photo : AP <p> The protests come amid growing tensions over US President Donald Trump 's December recognition of Jerusalem as Israel 's capital , as well as a yet-to-be-released US peace plan that Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas has already pledged to reject . Abbas severed all official Palestinian contact with the White House in December after Trump announced plans to move the US Embassy to Jerusalem from Tel Aviv . <p> ' Right of Return ' <p> Senior Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh , appearing at the tent camps on Friday , presented the march as a rebuke to the US peace effort , and said it marks the beginning of the Palestinian return to all of what is now Israel . <p> " The Great March of Return is a message to Trump that his deal and all those who support it , that there is no concession on Jerusalem , no alternative to Palestine , and no solution but to return , " Haniyeh said . The Palestinians " will not agree to keep the ' Right of Return ' only as a slogan . " <p> Israel sees the demand for a mass return of Palestinians as a bid to eradicate Israel as a Jewish state . <p> Teargas canisters fired by Israeli troops fall down at Palestinians during the demonstration . <p> Photo : AP <p> The Gaza protests correspond with red-letter dates on the Palestinian calendar . Friday was " Land Day , " marking the 1976 killing of six Arab citizens by Israeli security forces during violent demonstrations against land expropriations . It also marks the beginning of the week-long Jewish Passover holiday . <p> The main march to the fence on May 15 will commemorate the Palestinian " Nakba " , or the catastrophe of their displacement at Israel 's founding . It takes place a day after the new US embassy in Jerusalem is slated to open , on the 70th anniversary of Israel 's independence . Ramadan , the Muslim holy fasting month that often sees a surge in Palestinian attacks , begins on May 15 . <p> Israeli officials had braced for the effort to turn violent , while Palestinian supporters of the march said they hoped to capitalise on those optics . Israeli Defence Minister Avigdor Liberman warned that Hamas was playing with Palestinians ' lives , and urged Gazans to stay at home . <p> " Whoever approaches the fence today is putting himself in danger , " he tweeted in Arabic . 
@@23937986 <h> Iran slams Israel 's ' shameful ' killing of Gaza protesters <p> Tehran ( AFP ) - Iran 's foreign minister on Saturday condemned the fatal shooting of 16 Gazan protesters by Israeli troops and mocked the fact that it happened as Israeli Jews prepared to mark Passover . <p> Iran slams Israel 's ' shameful ' killing of Gaza protesters <p> The protesters were among thousands who marched along the Gaza-Israel border on Friday and set up protest camps at the start of a six-week campaign for the return of hundreds of thousands of Palestinian refugees who fled or were expelled during the war surrounding Israel 's creation in 1948 . <p> The week-long Passover festival , which began at sundown on Friday , commemorates God 's liberation of the Jewish people from slavery in Egypt as told in the Book of Exodus in the Hebrew Bible . <p> " On the eve of Passover ( of all days ) , which commemorates God liberating Prophet Moses and his people from tyranny , Zionist tyrants murder peaceful Palestinian protesters -- whose land they have stolen -- as they march to escape their cruel and inhuman apartheid bondage . Shameful , " Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif tweeted . <p> Iran has long been a supporter of Islamist group Hamas which controls the Gaza Strip . <p> Ministry spokesman Bahram Ghassemi condemned the " savage massacre of a large number of Palestinians by the armed forces of the Zionist regime ( Israel ) " . <p> He said Israel had felt it could act with impunity because of the backing of US President Donald Trump and the covert ties being established by some regional leaders -- an allusion to Saudi Arabia 's 32-year-old de facto ruler Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman , an arch-foe of Iran . <p> " Unfortunately , the unconditional support of Mr Trump and his administration and the shameful efforts of some ignorant novice leaders to establish disgraceful secret relations with this regime have made the leaders of the Zionist regime more presumptuous , " Ghassemi said . <p> The Trump administration has called repeatedly for an alliance against Iran between Israel and the Gulf Arab states , led by Saudi Arabia . <p> Riyadh has made no public comment although earlier this month it allowed the first commercial Israel-bound flights to cross its airspace , an Air India service between New Delhi and Tel Aviv . <p> Friday was the bloodiest single day in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict since a 2014 war in Gaza . UN chief Antonio Guterres called for an " independent and transparent investigation " . 
@@23938407 <h> Mourning in Gaza after 16 protesters slain <p> Five Palestinians have been killed in clashes with Israeli troops during Land Day protests in Gaza . <p> Palestinian authorities haveannounced a day of national mourning in the wake of 16 Gazans being killed by Israeli forces during protests commemorating Palestine 's so-called Land Day and called for a strike . <p> Friday 's Land Day marches , which embodied the demand of Palestinian refugees and their descendants to be allowed to return to their homeland , saw 16 Palestinians killed when Israeli troops opened live fire on the protesters , of which some 1400 were injured , including 20 in critical condition . <p> Schools , universities , public institutions and private businesses closed their doors in the West Bank , East Jerusalem and the Gaza Strip on Saturday , a working day for most Palestinians , after Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas had called for a national day of mourning . <p> The funerals and burials of the 16 deceased , most of whom were young people in their twenties , are set to be held later on Saturday in the Gaza Strip . <p> More than half of Gaza 's 2 million inhabitants are refugees or their descendants , according to the United Nations . <p> Other Palestinian factions have joined the Islamist movement Hamas in promoting the " Great Return March , " which plans to maintain a presence of hundreds of protesters along the border between Gaza and Israel until May 15 , when Palestinians commemorate what they call the Nakba ( " Catastrophe " ) , referring to the exile and dispossession of Arabs that accompanied the founding of Israel in 1948 . <p> According to Palestinian sources , some 40,000 people participated in the protests on Friday , while the Israeli army estimated that they were 30,000 . <p> During a speech on Friday in Ramallah , Abbas called for international protection for the Palestinian people . <p> The UN Secretary-General , Antonio Guterres , said he was deeply concerned about the unrest in Gaza and called for an independent and transparent investigation into Friday 's events . <p> The UN expressed fears that the situation in Gaza could deteriorate in the coming days . <p> During an emergency Security Council meeting convened on Kuwait 's initiative , the UN urged Israel to use lethal force against protesters only as a last resort . <p> On Friday , the Israeli Defence Forces said in a statement that 17,000 Palestinians were " rioting " in five locations along the Gaza Strip security fence . <p> " The rioters are rolling burning tyres and hurling firebombs and rocks at the security fence and IDF troops , who are responding with riot dispersal means and firing towards main instigators , " the statement added . <p> Young Gazans hurled stones at soldiers , who fired tear gas in order to disperse the thousands of men , women and children gathered in the area , witnesses told EFE . <p> Israel announced earlier this week that 100 snipers would be posted along the Gaza border . <p> The Land Day tradition commemorates the events of March 30 , 1976 , when Israeli soldiers fatally shot six Palestinians who were protesting the Israeli government 's expropriation of large swathes of Palestinian-owned land . 
