<p> NEW DELHI : The Indian Embassy in Lebanon has issued strong advisory urging all Indian nationals to leave country due to rising tensions in Middle East . This alert follows Israel 's recent strikes on Lebanon and Iran 's plans to retaliate for killing of Hamas chief Ismail Haniyeh in Tehran earlier this week . <p> " In view of recent developments and potential threats in region Indian nationals are strongly advised against travelling to Lebanon till further notice , " the Embassy tweeted . Advisory further emphasized " All Indian nationals are also strongly advised to leave Lebanon . Those who remain for any reason are advised to exercise extreme caution . They should restrict their movements and remain in contact with Embassy of India in Beirut . " <p> Embassy has also provided emergency contact number for Indian nationals in Lebanon . Several other countries , including United States Australia and Canada , have issued similar advisories to their citizens . They urge them to leave Lebanon at earliest opportunity . <p> Tensions in Middle East have been high due to ongoing Israel-Hamas conflict in Gaza since October 7 of last year . The situation escalated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in southern Lebanon according to Reuters . This strike was in retaliation for a rocket attack in Israeli-occupied Golan Heights on July 27 . This attack resulted in deaths of 12 teenagers and children . Israel and United States have attributed this attack to Hezbollah , a group backed by Iran . <p> Due to fears of full-scale war between Israel and Hezbollah flights at Beirut airport have been canceled or delayed . Associated Press reported this . Earlier this week , Indian Embassy had already advised Indian nationals in Lebanon to " exercise caution . " They urged people to stay in contact with embassy due to escalating conflict between Israel and Hezbollah . <p> In related development Ismail Haniyeh , chief of Hamas 's political wing was killed late Wednesday at his residence in Tehran . Both Palestinian outfit and Iran 's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps ( IRGC ) confirmed killing in separate statements . Hamas claimed that Haniyeh and one of his bodyguards were killed in " Israeli " raid on his residence .
