<h> Israel court hears bid to close prison where soldiers are accused of sexually assaulting Palestinian <p> JERUSALEM : The Israeli Supreme Court considered a petition Wednesday to shutter a desert military prison where soldiers have been accused of abusing Palestinians , as a new video emerged purporting to show the sexual assault of a Palestinian detainee.Rights groups have been engaged in a legal battle since June to shut down the detention facility , known as Sde Teiman , where Israel has held many Palestinians detained in Gaza during the 10-month war with Hamas . <p> The groups claim that conditions at the facility are grave and that abuse by Israeli soldiers is common , basing their claims on testimony from released detainees and Israeli whistleblowers.Calls for the prison 's closure ramped up in late July , when Israeli military police arrested 10 soldiers from Sde Teiman on suspicion of their involvement in the alleged sexual assault of a Palestinian detainee at the facility . Five of the soldiers are no longer under investigation . A physician who identified himself as the person who reported the attack said last week that the detainee appeared to have been seriously sexually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and at least two government ministers demanded their release . The response underscored tensions between the military command and hard-line nationalists in Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's government who advocate even harsher treatment of Palestinians detained from Gaza . <p> Defense lawyer Nati Rom told The Associated Press that the soldiers were arrested about a month after the alleged attack and are accused of performing acts of sodomy on the detainee . He said the soldiers used force to defend themselves against a detainee who attacked them during a search , but did not sexually abuse him.A video purporting to reveal the assault shows a group of masked soldiers wresting a detainee from the ground , where he and other Palestinians appear to be lying face down in a fenced-in pen , their arms cuffed above their heads . The soldiers take the detainee to an area of the pen they appear to cordon off using shields . Footage then shows about eight soldiers and a dog with the detainee , largely hidden from view by shields held up by some of the soldiers . Israel 's Channel 12 news @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moment of the attack . <p> Two soldiers who formerly worked at the facility and requested anonymity for fear of retribution told the AP they believed the video had been taken at Sde Teiman . The room in which the detainees appear , a corral topped by barbed wire , matches photos of the facility shared with the AP and the description of incarceration conditions that whistleblowers have previously described.Military prosecutors stated that evidence brought forth in the case indicates " a reasonable suspicion of the commission of the acts , " the Israeli military said Tuesday . The military did not comment on the video.U.S. officials have seen the video , State Department spokesperson Matthew Miller said Wednesday . He called the reports of sexual abuse " horrific . " " Prisoners ' human rights need to be respected in all cases and when there are alleged violations , the government of Israel needs to take steps to investigate those who are alleged to have committed abuses and , if appropriate , hold them accountable , " Miller said.Meanwhile , more information about the case has come to light @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yoel Donchin , an Israeli anesthesiologist at the field hospital for Palestinian detainees at Sde Teiman , came forward Friday as the person who reported the case to the military authorities.In an interview with Israeli public broadcaster Kan , Donchin said the detainee 's life was in danger and that he was in need of emergency surgery after the attack.During the interview , Donchin confirmed information attributed to an unidentified medical official who said the detainee had fractured ribs , showed signs of beating and bore evidence of being sodomized , leading to a tear in the lower part of the intestines.Donchin said the detainee 's case was the most extreme he had witnessed since working at the facility.Naji Abbas , a case manager with Physicians for Human Rights-Israel , said the detainee was transferred to a civilian hospital outside Sde Teiman about a month ago because his injuries were too severe for treatment at the military facility . Abbas received his information from a medical source with knowledge of the case.In a written submission to the Israeli Supreme Court in advance of Wednesday 's hearing , state attorneys did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insisted the rights groups ' claims of deplorable conditions were inaccurate.The Israeli organization arguing in court for the military prison 's closure , the Association for Civil Rights in Israel , had alleged that detainees at the facility are punished with severe violence , including with attack dogs and sexual assault ; made to sit on the ground blindfolded and handcuffed 24 hours a day ; forbidden from moving or speaking and rarely shower or change clothes.An investigation by the AP into the facility documented how detainees are blindfolded , handcuffed and diapered during medical treatment.The state , in a written response , said detainees were given sufficient food and water , showered regularly , accessed medical treatment as needed , and were blindfolded and handcuffed because of concerns that they could harm staff . The state said a new wing of Sde Teiman set to open Sept. 5 would improve conditions , including adding a walking area for detainees . Additional improvements are expected to be made later this year , it said.Following Wednesday 's hearing , the court gave the state a week and a half to provide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ main military prison holding Palestinians captured in large-scale raids on the Gaza Strip . Israel began moving detainees out of the facility following the rights groups ' petition to shut it down . State filings show 28 detainees remain.Under Israeli law , Palestinians from Gaza can be held at the facility , and other military detention camps , without a detention order , trial or charge for over a month . Many Palestinian detainees have spent weeks in the facility before being released back to Gaza after Israeli authorities deemed them unaffiliated with militant groups .
