<h> An Israeli airstrike on a Gaza school kills at least 80 people , Palestinian health officials say <p> Deir Al-Balah , Aug 10 : An Israeli airstrike hit a school-turned-shelter in Gaza City early Saturday , killing at least 80 people , Palestinian health authorities said , in one of the deadliest strikes in the 10-month-old war between Israel and Hamas . The Israeli military acknowledged the strike , claiming it hit a Hamas command centre within the school . Hamas denied that . The strike on the Tabeen school in central Gaza City also wounded 47 people , the Health Ministry said . The facility , like almost all of Gaza 's schools , has been used as a shelter for people who have been forced to flee their homes by the war . Video from the scene showed walls blown out on the ground level of a large building . Concrete chunks and twisted metal lay atop the blood-soaked floor , along with clothing , toppled furniture and other debris . A blackened car with the windows blown out was covered in rubble . Fadel Naeem , director of the al-Ahli hospital in Gaza City , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of those killed in the strike and the body parts of at least 10 others . The strike hit without warning in the early morning before sunrise as people were praying at a mosque inside the school , according to Abu Anas , a witness who worked to rescue people . " There were people praying , there were people washing and there were people upstairs sleeping , including children , women and old people , " he said . " The missile fell on them without warning . The first missile , and the second . We recovered them as body parts . " Three missiles ripped through the school and the mosque inside , where about 6,000 displaced people were taking shelter from the war , said Mahmoud Bassal , a spokesperson for the Civil Defense first responders who operate under the Hamas-run local government . Many of the dead were unrecognisable , he said , adding that he expected the death toll to rise . Many of the casualties were women and children , he said . According to the United Nations , 477 out of 564 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the war as of July 6 . In June , an Israeli strike on a school sheltering displaced Palestinians in central Gaza killed at least 33 people , including 12 women and children , according to local health officials . On Thursday Israel 's military hit two schools sheltering displaced people in eastern Gaza City , killing at least 15 people , according to hospital officials . Israel has blamed civilian deaths in Gaza on Hamas , saying the group endangers noncombatants by using schools and residential neighbourhoods as bases for operations and attacks . Israeli intelligence indicated about 20 militants from Hamas and Islamic Jihad , including senior commanders , were using the Tabeen school compound to plan attacks on Israeli forces , Lt. Col. Nadav Shoshani , an Israeli military spokesman said in a statement on the social media platform X. Izzat al-Rishq , a top Hamas official denied there were militants in the school . Shoshani also questioned the casualty numbers issued by the Palestinian Health Ministry . Israel said the targeted school was located next to a mosque serving as a shelter for Gaza City residents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , that the mosque and the classrooms were in one building , with the prayer hall on the ground floor and the school above it . A missile appeared to have penetrated through the floor of the classrooms to the mosque below and then exploded , according to the cameraman . The strike came as American , Qatari and Egyptian mediators renewed their push for the two parties to achieve a cease-fire agreement that could help calm soaring tensions in the region following the assassination of top Hamas political leader Ismail Haniyeh in Tehran and a senior Hezbollah commander in Beirut . Egypt , which borders Gaza and serves as a key mediator , said the strike on the school showed Israel had no intention of reaching a cease-fire deal and ending the war . Neighboring Jordan also condemned the attack , calling it a " blatant violation " of international law . Israel 's campaign in Gaza has killed more than 39,600 Palestinians and wounded more than 91,700 others , according to the enclave 's Health Ministry . The war was triggered by Hamas ' Oct 7 attack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , killing around 1,200 people and abducting 250 others . More than 1.9 million of Gaza 's prewar population of 2.3 million have been driven from their homes , fleeing repeatedly across the territory to escape offensives . Most are now crowded into ramshackle tent camps in an area of about 50 square kilometres ( 19 square miles ) on the Gaza coast . ( PTI )
