<h> OpenAI Shuts Down Iranian Propaganda Operation Using ChatGPT <p> OpenAI claims to have disrupted a covert Iranian Influence Operation ( IO ) that used ChatGPT to spread political propaganda . The AI startup identified a group known as Storm-2035 as responsible for the operation , which involved posting AI-generated political commentary on the US Presidential election . OpenAI has since suspended the accounts associated with the operation and shared intelligence with government , campaign , and industry stakeholders . " We have seen no indication that this content reached a meaningful audience , " stated the company . <p> The threat actor was first identified in a Microsoft Threat Intelligence Report on August 9 , which also identified multiple other Iranian groups operating alongside it . This operation used ChatGPT to generate articles on US politics and global events for five news websites , as well as posts and comments on X and Twitter in English and Spanish . The content focused on topics like the Gaza conflict , Israel at the Olympics , the U.S. election and Latin American politics . Interestingly , the threat actor seemed to be playing both sides , with some posts criticising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This Matters <p> OpenAI has previously cracked down on AI-based covert operations by geopolitical rivals of the US . In February this year , OpenAI discovered and terminated five accounts associated with state-affiliated threat actors that were engaged in phishing operations . The accounts originated from China , Russia , Iran and North Korea . <p> While OpenAI is grappling with its technology being used in geopolitical power games , it has also displayed an openness to collaborate with the United States defence establishment . Earlier this year , the company updated its usage policies to exclude an explicit prohibition on using its models for military and warfare purposes . Since then , OpenAI has been collaborating with the Pentagon in developing cybersecurity tools , with the US military also using the startups ' AI models to create simulated wargames . The company also brought former National Security Agency ( NSA ) head Paul Nakasone into its board of directors . AI 's expanding role in military operations marks a global shift , with recent conflicts in Gaza and Ukraine demonstrating its increasing use on the battlefield.
