<p> Israel on Sunday launched pre-emptive strikes in Lebanon to avert the looming " large-scale " retaliatory response from Iran-backed Hezbollah , which had vowed to avenge the assassination of its commander Fuad Shukr in Beirut.The Israeli military , in a move to mitigate attacks on its territory , hammered thousands of Hezbollah 's rocket launcher barrels as over a hundred fighter jets rumbled along the Isarel-Lebanon border . <p> Soon after the attacks , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , issuing a statement on Israel 's action , said the country would take all measures necessary to defend itself.He further said that the leaders of Hezbollah and Iran should know that the response was " another step towards changing the situation in the north and returning our residents safely to their homes " and that " this is not the end of the story " . <p> Israel springs surprise Israel said the strikes were carried out in the wake of detecting preparations for " large-scale " attacks by Hezbollah . " The IDF identified the Hezbollah terrorist organization preparing to fire missiles and rockets toward Israeli territory . In response to these threats , the IDF is striking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( IDF ) said in a statement . IDF spokesperson Daniel Hagari said the attack was to eliminate Hezbollah 's " plans to launch their attacks on Israeli civilians " . <p> ' Whoever harms us -- we harm him'Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , issuing a statement on Israel 's action , said the country would take all measures necessary to defend itself . " We are determined to do everything possible to defend our country , to return the residents of the north safely to their homes and to continue to uphold a simple rule : Whoever harms us -- we harm him , " Netanyahu said in a statement.The Israeli PM also held a security cabinet meeting at 04.00 GMT ( 9.30 am IST ) . Hezbollah launches missile barrageThe Iran-backed outfit in Lebanon launched hundreds of rockets and drones against Israel to avenge the assassination of its commander.Hezbollah claimed it had launched drones and more than 320 Katyusha rockets towards Israel and hit 11 military targets . It said the barrage had completed " the first phase " of its response to Israel 's assassination last month @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but that the full response would take " some time " , according to Reuters.US reaffirms ' ironclad ' support to IsraelAs escalation between Hezbollah and Israel grew , the United States said its commitment to Israel 's defense was ironclad and that it was " postured " to support its ally.US Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin spoke to Israeli counterpart Yoav Gallant about Israel 's defense against attacks by the Lebanese militant group , Pentagon spokesman Major General Pat Ryder said . " Secretary Austin reaffirmed the United States ' ironclad commitment to Israel 's defence against any attacks by Iran and its regional partners and proxies , " Ryder said in a statement , according to AFP.A Pentagon spokesperson added in a separate statement that the United States has " been very clear " that it " is postured to support the defence of Israel . " Meanwhile , both sides -- Israel and Hezbollah -- have claimed that their attacks were only aimed at military targets . Tension mounts in boiling Middle EastHezbollah and other armed groups in Lebanon have been trading fire with Israel in parallel with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strike in southern Lebanon resulted in the deaths of nine people , including a woman and her two children , claimed Lebanon 's health ministry . The strike , which occurred in the Nabatieh area , also left five people wounded , with two of them in critical condition . Since the outbreak of war in the Gaza Strip last October between Palestinian Hamas militants and Israeli forces , Hezbollah , an Iran-backed group , and Israeli forces have been engaged in near-daily exchanges of fire across their border . This recent incident occurs amidst concerns of a broader regional conflict , which international mediators have been attempting to prevent through negotiations aimed at establishing a truce in Gaza . ' Not the end of the story ' : NetanyahuIsraeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said that Israel took pre-emptive action against the Iranian-backed Hezbollah movement in Lebanon and that all drones launched against a strategic target in central Israel were intercepted.He said that the leaders of Hezbollah and Iran should know that the response was " another step towards changing the situation in the north and returning our residents safely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the end of the story " . Sunday attack on Israel went as planned , further strikes possible : Hezbollah chiefHezbollah leader Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah said his group ? ? would assess the impact of its rocket and drone attack on Israeli military targets earlier in the day before determining whether it would carry out further attacks to avenge a slain commander.The leader of the Lebanese armed group said in a televised address that it had been able to carry out its attack " as planned , " denying statements by the Israeli military that its pre-emptive strikes had stopped a wider attack by the group.Nasrallah , speaking about 12 hours after the most intense exchange of fire between Iran-backed Hezbollah and Israel since hostilities broke out in parallel with the war in Gaza , said the group had intentionally refrained from targeting civilians or public infrastructure , including Ben Gurion Airport in Tel Aviv.He said the group 's main target was a military intelligence base about 110 km ( 70 miles ) inside Israeli territory - the deepest attack yet and just 1.5 km ( 1 mile ) north @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ further escalationIsrael and the Lebanon-based group Hezbollah exchanged messages via intermediaries in order to prevent further escalation following one of the biggest exchanges of fire between the two foes in 10 months , two diplomats told.The main message was that both sides considered that Sunday 's intense exchange of bombardment was " done " and that neither side wanted a full-scale war , one diplomat said . The diplomats spoke on condition they were not identified.Flights canceled amid heightened Israel-Lebanon tensionsAir France and Gemany 's Lufthansa have both suspended flights to Tel Aviv and Beirut amid rising tensions following Israel 's airstrikes on Lebanon.Air France announced the suspension of its flights scheduled for Sunday and Monday , with a possibility of further extensions depending on the situation in the Middle East . Lufthansa , meanwhile , has extended its suspension of flights to Beirut until the end of September and will not operate flights to Tel Aviv and Tehran until September 2 . British Airways also suspended its flight operations from Tel Aviv and said , " We 've been continually monitoring the situation in the Middle East and have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Tel Aviv up to and including Wednesday 28 August " a spokesman for the airline said . " Safety is always our top priority , and we 're contacting customers to advise them of their travel options . " <h> About the Author <p> At TOI World Desk , our dedicated team of seasoned journalists and passionate writers tirelessly sifts through the vast tapestry of global events to bring you the latest news and diverse perspectives round the clock . With an unwavering commitment to accuracy , depth , and timeliness , we strive to keep you informed about the ever-evolving world , delivering a nuanced understanding of international affairs to our readers . Join us on a journey across continents as we unravel the stories that shape our interconnected world .
