<p> Palestinian militant group Hamas has released a video of an American-Israeli hostage , Edan Alexander , who is urging US President-elect Donald Trump and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu for release of hostages . <p> The purported video , Titled ' Soon ... Time is running out ' was posted on Hamas ' Telegram channel by the Qassam Brigades . <p> In the video 20 year old kEdan , who was held hostage by the militant group during its attack on Israel on October 7 , 2023 , appealed to Trump to use his " influence and the full power of the United States to negotiate for our freedom " . <p> Though the authenticity of the footage has not been independently verified , Edan 's mother , Yael Alexander , has expressed her distress . She said that she was " shaken by the video " . <p> In a statement , she said , " My Edan , my love , we miss you so much . I want to tell you that following your request , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu called me about an hour ago . <p> He gave me strength and assured me that now , after the deal in Lebanon , the conditions are ripe to release you and bring you home . " <p> Yael also mentioned that she had been in contact with Netanyahu 's office and conveyed to the prime minister the importance of keeping his promise to free the hostages . Netanyahu 's office later confirmed the conversation and labeled the video released by Hamas as " cruel psychological warfare " while reiterating Tel Aviv 's commitment to securing the release of all hostages . <p> In the video , Edan implored , " Please do not make the mistake Biden has been doing . " <p> He expressed his fear of suffering the same fate as fellow American-Israeli hostage Hersh Goldberg Polin , who was killed by Hamas in captivity in August . <p> The White House strongly condemned the footage and called it " a cruel reminder of Hamas 's terror against citizens of multiple countries , including our own " . <p> " President Joe Biden and the US will continue to work round the clock to secure the release of our citizens , including through diplomatic efforts and by increasing pressure on Hamas terrorists through sanctions , law enforcement actions and other measures . " <p> On October 7 , 2023 , more than 240 individuals were taken hostage by Hamas and other attackers . Israel confirms that 97 hostages , initially abducted that day , remain in Gaza . <p> At present , according to Israeli authorities , more than 60 hostages are still alive , while the bodies of about 35 others , also taken on October 7 , remain in Gaza . <p> In a significant development on November 28 , 69 civilians were released by Hamas in exchange for 180 Palestinian prisoners , as part of a temporary ceasefire agreement between Israeli forces and Palestinian armed groups . <p> Meanwhile , Israeli authorities have detained nearly 7,000 Palestinians , most held for alleged security offenses . Many of them have been imprisoned since the October 7 attacks . According to HaMoked , an Israeli human rights organisation , the majority of these detainees -- over 2,000 -- are being held in administrative detention . It means they have not been formally charged or tried in court . The detainees include women and children , many of whom have never been convicted of any crime . <p> More than 45,000 people have been killed in the Israel-Hamas war , including 43,391 Palestinians and 1,706 Israelis , as of November 5 , 2024 . Among them are 134 -- 146 journalists , 120 academics and over 224 humanitarian workers , who also include 179 UNRWA employees . <p> On the other hand , the Israel Defense Forces have reported 807 military fatalities , including soldiers , officers and reservists . Of them , over 305 killed were on the Gaza border and at least 380 during ground operations in Gaza . The Israel Police has listed 58 officers killed , including those involved in confrontations on the Gaza border , hostage rescue operations and terror attacks in Israel and the West Bank . <p> On October 7 , 2023 , Hamas launched an assault on Israel and reportedly around 1,200 people . It militants infiltrated towns and attacked military positions and fired thousands of rockets .
