<h> Jewish settlers attack Palestinian towns , clash with Israeli troops <p> Jerusalem , Dec 4 : Jewish settlers mounted a string of attacks on Palestinian towns in the occupied West Bank overnight , burning homes and clashing with Israeli troops . There were no immediate reports of any Palestinian casualties . The Israeli military said Jewish settlers attacked the village of Beit Furik after troops arrived in the area to dismantle an unauthorised farming outpost they had built nearby . It said the settlers hurled stones , wounding two members of the paramilitary Border Police , and one group entered the village and burned property . The West Bank has seen a surge in settler violence since the start of the war . Israeli strike kills a person in Lebanon Israeli forces carried out several new drone and artillery strikes in Lebanon on Tuesday , including a deadly strike that the Health Ministry and state media said killed one person , further shaking a tenuous ceasefire meant to end more than a year of fighting with Hezbollah . Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu vowed keep striking " with an iron fist " against perceived Hezbollah violations of the truce . His defense minister warned that if the ceasefire collapses , Israel will target not just Hezbollah but the Lebanese state -- an expansion of Israel 's campaign . Israel also carried out an airstrike in Syria , saying it killed a senior member of Hezbollah responsible for coordinating with Syria 's army on rearming and resupplying the Lebanese militant group . Israel has repeatedly hit Hezbollah targets in Syria , but Tuesday 's attack was a rare public acknowledgement . . 4 children killed in Gaza strike Palestinian medics said an Israeli airstrike on the Gaza Strip killed at least five people , including four children , on Wednesday . The Awda Hospital , which received the bodies , said the five were gathered outside of shelters in the built-up Nuseirat refugee camp in central Gaza , which dates back to the 1948 war surrounding Israel 's creation . The hospital said another 15 people , mostly children , were wounded in the strike . There was no immediate comment from the Israeli military . ( AP ) <h> Follow us <h> About Us <p> The Shillong Times first appeared as a tabloid weekly on 10th August 1945 under the editorship of Late Sudhindra Bhusan Chaudhuri . In 1958 it was converted to a Daily . Owing to financial constraints , within six months it reverted back to a weekly .
