<h> About 250 hostages were captured by the Hamas militants from Israel during their surprise attack on the country on October 7 , 2023 , and around 100 of them still remain in captivity in Gaza . <p> US President-elect Donald Trump has demanded that the hostages captured by the Gaza based militant group Hamas in its attack on Israel last year be returned before his inauguration in January , or there will be " hell to pay " in the Middle East for those responsible . ( File Photo ) <p> US President-elect Donald Trump has demanded that the hostages captured by the Gaza based militant group Hamas in its attack on Israel last year be returned before his inauguration in January , or there will be " hell to pay " in the Middle East for those responsible . <p> Reiterating his support for Israel and without naming any militant group , Trump in a post on Truth Social said that " If the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity . " <p> About 250 hostages were captured by the Hamas militants from Israel during their surprise attack on the country on October 7 , 2023 , and around 100 of them still remain in captivity in Gaza . According to Israeli authorities , a third of the hostages are believed to be dead . <p> Advertisement <p> Israel 's president Isaac Herzog reacted to Trump 's post and said , " Thank you and bless you Mr. President-elect . We all pray for the moment we see our sisters and brothers back home ! " <p> President Joe Biden 's administration , which was able to broker a ceasefire agreement between Israel and Lebanon based Hezbollah militant group , has been working since last year with Israel and other mediators , including Qatar and Egypt for a truce deal with Hamas , which will include the release of all hostages . <p> Trump , in his post further added that " Those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America . RELEASE THE HOSTAGES NOW ! " <p> In November last year , there appeared to be a brief pause in the hostilities between Israel and Hamas when 105 hostages were released by the militant group and about 240 Palestinians were released from Israel .
