<h> Digital comics are circulated among platform users and provide an accessible outlet for processing emotion , showing solidarity and disseminating knowledge . <p> A mural in solidarity with Palestinians in Gaza , in Dublin in Ireland , in this photograph from November 2023 . Reuters <p> Comics and graphic narratives have long been used to document the events of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict , both by people visiting and reporting on the region , as well as by Palestinians and Israelis . <p> My previous writing explored how How to Understand Israel in 60 Days or Less reflects the artist/author 's complicated journey of self- and cultural discovery . As a Jewish American woman embarking on an Israeli-funded Birthright Trip , Glidden faces the violence enacted by the Israeli state . The book highlights Glidden 's quest for an authentic representation of Israeli and Palestinian lived realities , and her journey towards self-acceptance . <p> Personal memory and reflection -- whether about identity versus culture or lived experience versus political unrest -- has been a common thread across many graphic representations . <p> Comics and illustration can be powerful forms of witness in their capacity to juxtapose text and image . While some illustrators or cartoonists have replicated antisemitic , orientalist and anti-Arab stereotypes , taking up the long-established visual negative stereotypical tropes , others seek to document , educate and empathize with victims . The use of negative visual tropes is not limited to graphic representations of Israel and Palestine , but a widespread phenomenon that manifests in various dehumanizing and hateful iterations across the visual arts . In this article , I focus not on the stereotypes we might find in comics related to Israel and Palestine , but instead prioritize how they are acting as networked resources . <p> Here , I discuss how creators have recently taken to social media to share short comics about what many experts say is the Palestinian genocide in real-time . <p> Sabaaneh 's evocative illustrations have been featured in the Washington Post alongside the work of other Palestinian and Israeli cartoonists who are similarly sharing their critiques of the ongoing violence . <p> Sabaaneh , along with other Palestinian artists , are joined by western illustrators who are similarly using their social networks to draw attention to the IDF military incursion and its deadly effects . <h> Networks of care <p> These digital comics are circulated among platform users and provide an accessible outlet for processing emotion , showing solidarity and disseminating knowledge . <p> While the comics I point to in this article allow artists to process their feelings towards the conflict , they are also a crucial form of resistance to the ongoing attacks on Gaza and surrounding areas . <p> One of Lynda Barry 's ' Ceasefire Balloon ' paintings . This and other pieces were sold on the artist 's Etsy page in support of the Middle East Children 's Alliance . ( Barry 's Instagram account , @thenearsightedmonkey ) <p> Barry 's posts are often met with messages of support and empathy from followers . Her activist work has also translated into a fundraising project , with paintings of " Ceasefire Balloons " being sold on Etsy in support of the Middle East Children 's Alliance . <p> Montr ? al author and illustrator Sandra Dumais has also taken up a practice of creating comics that reflect her response to the ongoing attacks while simultaneously spreading messages of awareness and solidarity . <p> In her March 4 post , Dumais shares a single panel comic that reflects on the privileged realities of life in the West against the backdrop of what is happening in Gaza . Dumais has also leveraged her artwork as a means of raising funds . <h> Witnessing from afar <p> Artists like Barry and Dumais share their responses to the Palestinian genocide from a privileged western perspective that is secondary to the experiences of the Palestinian people who are living through it . These artists and others use the juxtaposition of text and image to represent the emotional toll of witnessing from afar , while also sharing messages that denounce the actions of the IDF . <p> By doing so , these webcomics join global calls for a ceasefire and serve as a means of virtual activism by way of community-enacted resistance . Artists and platform users interact with and take up each other 's work as a way of creating a digital social movement . <h> ' Being together alone ' <p> This is reminiscent of what social media scholars studying mental health communities , such as Natalie Ann Hendry , refer to as " being together alone , " where people working through experiences find community , solidarity and support in popular online spaces . <p> Comics not only show what is happening in Gaza through illustration but also provide an alternative to mainstream perspectives . This means two things : these webcomics are functioning as emotional outlets for the artists , as well as intentional acts of solidarity and resistance . <p> Amy Mazowita is a PhD Candidate at Concordia University.This article first appeared onThe Conversation .
