<h> Saudi royal slams ' genocidal ' Israel , welcomes Trump <p> A senior Saudi royal termed Israel " genocidal " and an " apartheid " state on Saturday , as he called on incoming US President-elect Donald Trump to bring peace to the Middle East . " Friendly countries in the region are hoping that Mr. Trump pursues what he started before , to bring peace with capital letters to the Middle East , " he said . <p> Donald Trump <p> MANAMA : A senior Saudi royal termed Israel " genocidal " and an " apartheid " state on Saturday , as he called on incoming US President-elect Donald Trump to bring peace to the Middle East.Prince Turki Al Faisal , who was Saudi Arabia 's intelligence chief for more than two decades , also said he hoped Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu would be brought before the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) . His comments at the Manama Dialogue conference in Bahrain follow increasingly tough statements from Saudi officials since talks were paused on a potential normalisation of ties with Israel after the start of the Gaza war . " Israel today , according to international human rights groups , is not only an apartheid colonial state , but it is also a genocidal one , " Prince Turki said . <p> " It is committing genocide on the people of Gaza . " He added : " It 's about time for the world to ... take the necessary steps to bring those who are charged by the International Criminal Court to justice . " The ICC issued warrants for Netanyahu and former defence minister Yoav Gallant last month on suspicion of crimes against humanity and war crimes.Saudi 's de facto ruler , Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman , also accused Israel of genocide at a joint Arab League and Organisation of Islamic Cooperation summit in Riyadh last month . <p> Amnesty International levelled the same charge this week in a new report that was dismissed by Israel as " fabricated " and " based on lies " . The war in Gaza was sparked by Hamas 's October 7 , 2023 attack on southern Israel , which resulted in the deaths of 1,208 people , mostly civilians , according to an AFP tally based on official figures.Israel 's retaliatory military campaign has killed at least 44,612 people in Gaza , mostly civilians , according to figures from the territory 's Hamas-run health ministry that the United Nations considers reliable.Prince Turki , also a former Saudi ambassador to the US , said Trump 's " strong mandate " from American voters " can enable him to provide the statesmanship that is highly needed in the world . " Friendly countries in the region are hoping that Mr. Trump pursues what he started before , to bring peace with capital letters to the Middle East , " he said . " It is time for America , under your presidency , to change the course of this troubled region , " he added.During Trump 's first administration , the UAE , Bahrain and Morocco signed the Abraham Accords recognising Israel , a break with the long-held Arab consensus that there should be no ties without the creation of a Palestinian state .
