<h> Israeli forces clashed with Palestinians in Gaza , resulting in 22 Palestinian deaths . Israel stated the targets were militants preparing attacks . Airstrikes hit houses and a school sheltering displaced people . Israel reported seizing weapons and capturing militants . Truce efforts by Egypt , Qatar , and the US remain unresolved . The conflict continues following Hamas 's October attack on Israel . <p> Reuters <p> Israeli troops killed at least 22 Palestinians , most of them in the northern Gaza Strip , on Sunday in airstrikes and other attacks on targets that included a school sheltering displaced Gazans , medics and residents said . <p> They said at least 11 of the dead were killed in three separate Israeli airstrikes on Gaza City houses , nine were killed in the towns of Beit Lahiya , Beit Hanoun and Jabalia camp and two were killed by drone fire in Rafah . <p> Residents said clusters of houses were bombed and some set ablaze in the three towns . The Israeli army has been operating in the towns for over two months . <p> The Israeli military said the three Gaza City houses belonged to militants planning imminent attacks . It said steps were taken to mitigate the risk of harming civilians beforehand , including the use of precise munitions and aerial surveillance . <p> The military issued a photo showing the weapons it said were seized in Beit Lahiya that included explosives and dozens of grenades . <p> In Beit Hanoun , Israeli forces besieged families sheltering in Khalil Aweida school before storming it and ordering them to head towards Gaza City , the medics and residents said . <p> Medics said several people were killed and wounded during the raid on the school while the army detained many men . The number killed was not immediately clear . <p> The military said it struck down dozens of militants from the air and on the ground and captured others in Beit Hanoun . <p> Separately , Israel said its air force struck a command and control center in a compound in the Abu Shabak clinic in northern Gaza used by Hamas to store weapons and plan attacks . The Gaza health ministry said the medical center , which also included a mental health clinic , was destroyed . <p> Palestinians accuse Israel of carrying out ethnic cleansing to depopulate the areas at the northern edge to create a buffer zone . Israel denies it and says the campaign targets Hamas militants and aims to prevent them from regrouping . The military says it has instructed civilians to evacuate battle zones for their own safety . <p> The war began when the Palestinian militant group Hamas stormed into Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , killing 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and taking more than 250 hostages back to Gaza , according to Israeli authorities . <p> Israel then launched an air , sea and land offensive that has killed almost 45,000 people , mostly civilians , according to authorities in the Hamas-run Gaza Strip , displaced nearly the entire population and left much of the enclave in ruins . <p> A bid by Egypt , Qatar and the United States to reach a truce has gained momentum in recent weeks , yet there has been no news of a breakthrough .
