<h> Share : <p> Palestinian Territory -- As part of its genocide against Palestinians in the Gaza Strip , Israel routinely targets medical teams in the north in an effort to destroy the health system and impose intolerable living conditions on civilians while denying them access to life-saving care . <p> The Israeli occupation army targeted Dr Saeed Joda today , on the afternoon of Thursday 12 December , as he was travelling from Kamal Adwan Hospital to Al-Awda Hospital to treat patients . He was killed when a Quadcopter fired at him , striking him in the head and demonstrating that his killing was premeditated and deliberate , especially given that he was the only orthopaedic physician in the northern Gaza Strip . <p> Israel has attacked Kamal Adwan Hospital , located in the Beit Lahia project , more than 20 times in the past 10 days , injuring several patients , medical personnel , and their companions . An Israeli drone targeted and killed Ali Al-Qar'a , a paramedic working in the Kamal Adwan area , on Sunday night ( 8 December ) . <p> The few medical teams that have remained in northern Gaza are being targeted by the Israeli occupation army in a methodical , obvious , and recurring pattern . This makes it extremely difficult to provide medical care to the 10s of thousands of residents who have been under siege for 69 days , and continues to prevent ambulance and civil defence crews from working for 51 days now . <p> In addition to the cycle of killing that has affected 10s of thousands of Palestinian civilians in the northern section of the Strip , Euro-Med Monitor 's review of the Israeli military 's targeting records and victim lists reveals a systematic , widespread policy of killing and assassinating Palestinian elites and those with competencies in various sectors . <p> The number of Palestinian medical personnel who have been killed since 7 October 2023 is 1,057 , and more than 135 scientists and academics have also been killed . Professor Abdel Salam Abu Zaida is the latest of these victims , having been killed along with six other Palestinians in an Israeli raid on Gaza City 's Al-Malash building yesterday evening ( Wednesday , 11 December ) . <p> The lists of targeted elites also include journalists , 193 of whom have been killed since 7 October 2023 , as well as people with knowledge of computer engineering , programming , and information technology , plus other influential people in these crucial spheres of society . <p> Israel 's crimes , which include the targeted and intentional killing of Palestinian intellectual elites and talents as well as the widespread and intentional destruction of businesses and infrastructure , are likely to impede the advancement of Palestinian society in the Gaza Strip overall ; threaten its scientific , educational , and economic system ; and deprive its vital sectors of prestigious and specialised cadres that will be difficult to replace in the near future . The killings are also bound to instill fear among the remaining talents . <p> These crimes occur in the context of overt Israeli policies that seek to render the Gaza Strip uninhabitable by eradicating basic life structures and individuals with valuable competencies . Given the magnitude and breadth of Israel 's efforts , its crimes could immoblise Palestinian society in the Strip by preventing it from developing , building , or recovering from this genocide . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> The United Nations and all nations must therefore carry out their international legal duties to prevent the continuation of Israel 's crime of genocide in the Gaza Strip ; impose a comprehensive arms embargo on Israel ; hold it responsible and punish it for all of its crimes ; take all necessary steps to protect Palestinian civilians in the Strip ; defend medical personnel and health facilities in the enclave from any further targeting ; and act swiftly , without hindrance , and in a way that satisfies the needs of all residents of the Gaza Strip , especially those in the northern areas . The complete withdrawal of the Israeli occupation army from the entire Gaza Strip must be ensured . <p> Euro-Med Human Rights Monitor is a Geneva-based independent organization with regional offices across the MENA region and Europe <h> Related Posts <p> Amsterdam ( Quds News Network ) - A groundbreaking study has revealed the staggering psychological toll of the Gaza genocide on children . Conducted by the Community Training Centre for Crisis Management ( CTCCM ) with support from ... <p> The world 's foremost monitor of civilian harm caused by aerial bombardment published a report Thursday calling the first 25 days of Israel 's ongoing U.S.-backed annihilation of Gaza the worst assault on noncombatants it has ... <p> It was bound to happen . With continuing operations in Gaza , and increasingly violent activities being conducted against Palestinians in the occupied territories , human rights organisations are making increasingly severe assessments ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can .
