<h> Just In <h> A pathway to sustainable peace <h> What Israel and Palestine need are people that care about the things that they care -- about the status of Jerusalem that should be equally important ... <p> What Israel and Palestine need are people that care about the things that they care -- about the status of Jerusalem that should be equally important to Christians , Muslims and Jews worldwide as it is to locals . They need people who understand the grief of losing a homeland , to understand that the divisions have an equal claim on that land and have had for centuries . Peace is possible when emotional issues are resolved because when peo-ple feel that they are being heard and their values respected they have no incentive to harm <p> " Is peace in the West Bank and Gaza strip possible ? " One must define what peace really means . Is it absolute zero problems ? Hatred , disagreements and differences but no physical harm ? Civil and political tensions but no outright war ? We can not figure out a solution until we fully understand what it is we want to end . I define peace as hatred , disagreements and differences but no physical harm and that can only be achieved through conflict transformation . <p> For peace to exist in the West Bank and Gaza strip , we must not seek to create treaties and agree-ments but address the underlying historical injustices , inequalities and religious and territorial sen-timents that exist . I see agreements , especially , those based upon centuries of conflict as coverups and not solutions , maybe temporary solutions but not ones which will guarantee peace and harmo-ny for decades to come . The Israel Palestine conflict is rooted in historical and religious beliefs , feelings and differences . To solve such a complex problem by signing a treaty with a list of condi-tions is to simply put it , foolish . <p> In the book " From pacification to peacebuilding " by peace activist Diana Francis , the shift from traditional approaches focused on pacifying conflict through military means to peacebuilding strat-egies that address root causes and promote reconciliation is emphasized . <p> This applies perfectly to the question at hand . As brutal and chaotic this conflict is , the efforts to meet common ground and establish stability can not be denied . In 1947 , the UN proposed a parti-tion plan for Israel and Palestine to become two separate sovereign states , an idea that the world loves today and looks up to it as perfection . But when the plan was proposed many despised it just like they will in the future ; in fact , the plan is what started the conflict in the first place . The Jews were delighted at sight of finally returning to their homeland and being free of persecution , but Ar-abs who made up 90% of the population were furious that 55% of most fertile land was declared Israel . <p> The plan was rejected and fighting went on till May 4 of 1948 when Israel captured more territory and declared itself independent . The war had just begun . Horrifying death tolls from that day on-wards , counting the Suez Canal , Six-day war , Munich Olympics attack , Yon Kippur and first inti-fada . There was a glimmer of hope when the Oslo Accords were introduced . Oslo 1 and 2 were agreements between the PLO and Israel that seemed very practical and agreeable . Although back-lash , many conditions of the accords such as redeployment of Israeli forces from the Gaza strip , right of self-governance in Gaza strip and west bank , the division of area a , b and c in West Bank and the fight against terrorism in Palestine were objectives that seemed perfect at the time . Problem is these were agreed upon by two parties , even more literally two persons , who simply wanted less of their people to die and to please the international community . Many civilians on both sides op-posed it , which proves right after the assassination of Prime minister Yitzhak Rabin by a right-wing extremist . <p> Why did they oppose it ? It seemed like almost everyone got what they wanted . But they did n't . It was just a sophisticated version of the UN plan . Yes , less people would die and that is appealing but people knowingly or not they prioritize patriotism , pride and religion . <p> A solution that would possibly bring peace is like Johan Gaultang said , " Sustainable peace can not be achieved through mere ceasefire agreements ; it requires addressing the deep-seated grievances and fostering inclusive development . " What Israel and Palestine need are people that care about the things that they care -- about the status of Jerusalem that should be equally important to Christians , Muslims and Jews worldwide as it is to locals . They need people who understand the grief of los-ing a homeland , to understand that the divisions have an equal claim on that land and have had for centuries . Gaultang talks in his book called ' Sustainable Reconciliation In Divided Societies ' that peace is possible when emotional issues are resolved because when people feel that they are being heard and their values respected they have no incentive to harm . Anger only comes when once feels unimportant or ridiculed for their sentiments . <p> Yes , peace in the Gaza strip is possible when Gazans revolt against the greed of Hamas and realise that it is their land that Israel does not seek to claim , land that they must socially , economically and politically develop . And yes , peace in the West Bank is possible when Israel realises that their claim over Jerusalem is righteous , and it should focus on developing their hope of 2000 years to claim the holy land where Judaism was the first religion . It is possible when they prioritise collabo-rating on a land that is holy to 3 faiths over expanding settlements to showcase military might .
