<p> The talks focused on a critical hostage deal that could mark a turning point in the prolonged crisis . After the meeting , Sullivan expressed optimism : " I got the sense from the Prime Minister that he is ready to do a deal . " <p> advertisement <p> Sullivan added , " We ca n't rest until it ( hostage deal ) actually happens . It might not happen , but I believe it can happen with political will on both sides . The Israeli Government has indicated they would like to see this done , including the Prime Minister ( Netanyahu ) . We see movement from Hamas . We see a commitment from the mediators . And , I will go to Doha and Cairo to ensure the final impetus is there to bring this all together . " <p> " We 've been close before and have n't gotten there , so I ca n't make any promises or predictions to you . But I would n't be here today if I thought this was waiting until after January 20th ( Trump 's inauguration ) . I am here today because I believe every day matters , and we will use every day we have to try to close the deal as soon as we possibly can , " Sullivan said . <p> Netanyahu 's readiness to negotiate has raised hopes for the release of hostages still held by Hamas . <p> The urgency is clear . Families of hostages in both the US and Israel have been pleading for action , especially after a failed truce earlier this year left some hostages killed . <p> Sullivan emphasized the need for immediate progress , dismissing claims that Netanyahu might be stalling for political reasons , saying , " We want to close this deal this month . " <p> Recent reports suggest a shift in Hamas ' stance , with the group reportedly agreeing to key Israeli demands . This includes allowing IDF forces to remain in Gaza during a fighting pause and dropping its demand for a permanent halt to Israeli operations . <p> A list of hostages , including Americans , has reportedly been handed over , but questions remain about how many will be released and their identities . <p> International pressure is mounting . This week , the UN General Assembly overwhelmingly called for an immediate , unconditional ceasefire and the release of all hostages . While not binding , the resolution reflects global consensus on the situation 's urgency . <p> Sullivan will travel to Qatar and Egypt , key players in mediating these negotiations . The stakes could n't be higher as the world watches for a breakthrough in this deeply complex and heartbreaking crisis .
