<h> Why Israel Closed Its Embassy In Ireland Explained <p> Israel shuttered its embassy in Dublin , claiming that Ireland 's " extreme anti-Israeli policies " were the reason behind the country 's support for international law when it sponsored a petition at the ICJ accusing Israel of genocide . This decision intensifies already tense ties because of Ireland 's strong pro-Palestinian views , which include condemning Israel 's actions in Gaza and recognizing a Palestinian state . <p> Israel announced the closure of its embassy in Dublin following Ireland 's decision to back a petition at the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) accusing Israel of genocide . The action was a reaction to Ireland 's " extreme anti-Israeli policies , " according to Israeli Foreign Minister Gideon Sa'ar . <p> Given that Ireland has been one of the most outspoken European states in favor of Palestinian rights , the decision signaled a major increase in tensions between the two countries . One important aspect , according to Sa'ar , was Ireland 's backing of South Africa 's ICJ appeal under the Genocide Convention , which he saw as a component of " antisemitic actions " against Israel . He charged Dublin of smearing the Jewish state and using unfair treatment . <p> The Irish government justified its position by claiming that it was based on upholding international law and human rights . Simon Harris , the Irish Taoiseach , denied any anti-Israel feeling while calling Israel 's decision to close the embassy " deeply regrettable . " Harris reaffirmed Ireland 's commitment to regional peace and support for a two-state solution . <h> Longstanding Strains in Bilateral Relations <p> Ireland 's pro-Palestinian position has long caused tensions in relations between Israel and Ireland . Ireland 's unilateral acceptance of a Palestinian state has already prompted Israel to remove its ambassador from Dublin . These tense interactions are still present in the most recent events . <p> Shortly after Irish T ? naiste Miche ? l Martin stated that Ireland 's government has authorized legal participation in South Africa 's ICJ case , Israel made its declaration . The lawsuit seeks to expand international law 's definition of genocide . Martin maintained that Israel 's military operations in Gaza , which resulted in millions of people being displaced and tens of thousands of deaths , amounted to collective punishment . <p> Sa'ar outlined intentions to refocus Israel 's diplomatic efforts on countries with better relations . Declaring Moldova to be a nation seeking closer connections with Israel , he announced plans to build a new embassy there . <h> Wider Implications Amid Gaza Conflict <p> Ireland 's special situation was further highlighted by Israel 's decision to refrain from taking comparable diplomatic action against other countries who supported the ICJ case , such as Spain , Mexico , and Egypt . According to critics , the action would widen already-existing rifts over Middle East policy in Europe . <p> Reports of increasing violence in Gaza were made at the same time as the announcement . Health officials in the region said that more than 45,000 people had died in the fighting as of Sunday . At least 15 people were killed by Israeli airstrikes that struck many locations over the weekend , including a school in Beit Hanoun. 17 people , including women and children , were killed in attacks on private dwellings in Gaza City . <p> The violence did not spare journalists . An attack on a civil emergency facility in Nuseirat killed Ahmed Al-Louh , a video journalist for Al Jazeera . The incident claimed the lives of five more people . <h> Legal and Diplomatic Fallout <p> The diplomatic split occurred as Israel faced further legal difficulties . In November , the ICC issued arrest warrants for former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . Alleged war crimes , such as famine and crimes against humanity , were included in the warrants . Since then , Israel has appealed the warrants . <p> Ireland 's legal stance , according to observers , was part of a larger movement to reinterpret governmental responsibility for genocide . Martin emphasized the need for further protections for civilians and said that limited definitions of genocide lead to impunity . <p> Get Latest News Live on Times Now along with Breaking News and Top Headlines from World and around the world .
