<h> Netanyahu confirms very warm call with Trump on Israel 's need to complete its victory <p> Tel Aviv : Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu confirmed holding a phone call with US President-elect Donald Trump , during which he reaffirmed his country 's ' determination ' to continue acting against Iran and its armed proxies , CNN reported . <p> Netanyahu said in the video message that he had a " very friendly , very warm , and very important conversation " on Saturday ( local time ) and told about the need for Israel to " complete its victory . " <p> The leaders also spoke of the need to bring home the remaining hostages in Gaza . <p> Hamas carried out a massive terror attack on Israel on October 7 killing over 1200 people and holding over 250 as hostages . Around 100 of them are still believed to be in captivity in Gaza . <p> Israel launched a strong counter-offensive targeting Hamas units in Gaza in an operation that has killed over 45,000 Palestinians . <p> " I discussed all of this again last night with my friend , US President-elect Donald Trump , " Netanyahu said in a statement . <p> " It was a very friendly , very warm and very important conversation . We spoke about the need to complete Israel 's victory , and we also spoke at length about the efforts we are making to free our hostages , " he said as quoted by CNN.Netanyahu said that Israel continues to " work tirelessly to bring our hostages home , both the living and the dead . And I add , the less we talk about it , the better , and so with God 's help , we will succeed . " <p> On Sunday , the Israeli Prime Minister took to social media platform X and strongly affirmed that they would " change " the Middle East . " I said we would change the Middle East and this is what is happening . Syria is not the same Syria . Lebanon is not the same Lebanon . Gaza is not the same Gaza . Iran is not the same Iran , " Netanyahu said in a post on X. <p> " We are committed to preventing Hezbollah from rearming , " he said . " This is an ongoing test for Israel , we must meet it - and we will meet it . I say to Hezbollah and Iran in no uncertain terms - to prevent you from harming us , we will continue to act against you as much as necessary , in every arena and at all times , " as per Times of Israel . <p> Since the rebels led by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) overthrew the over two-decades-long Bashar al-Assad regime on December 8 , Israel has launched hundreds of airstrikes across Syria and carried out a land incursion that stretches past the occupied Golan Heights into a previously demilitarized buffer zone , as reported by The Washington Post . <p> The Israeli army swiftly took control of the abandoned army positions , and air attacks have decimated most of Syria 's military capabilities . <p> Netanyahu reiterated that recent airstrikes against Syrian military sites were carried out to ensure that the weapons would not be used against Israel in the future . Israel also hit arms supply routes to Hezbollah , he said , acording to Times of Israel . <p> " We have no interest in a conflict with Syria , " Netanyahu said . " We will determine Israel 's policy toward Syria according to the emerging reality on the ground . " <p> Netanyahu has said that Israel has " no intention of interfering " in Syria 's internal affairs , but also warned to take " necessary " measures if the current regime allows Iran to re-establish itself in Syria or transfers weapons to Hezbollah
