<h> The Houthi-controlled al-Masirah TV reported that the Israeli strikes hit power stations in Sanaa and the Ras Isa oil terminal , killing at least nine people . <p> Emergency services personnel work near a damaged site after a projectile fired from Yemen was intercepted in Israel . ( Image : Reuters ) <p> Israel 's military confirmed it conducted a series of intense airstrikes on Houthi military positions in Yemen after intercepting a missile fired by the group aimed at Israel . The airstrike , approved by Defence Minister Israel Katz , was carried out by Air Force jets under the coordination of the Intelligence and Navy branches and ended up killing at least 9 people . The targets in the western coastal region and deeper into Yemen were identified as key sites used by Houthi forces for military operations . <h> Israel attacks power plants , oil facility in Yemen <p> In response , Houthi-run Al Masirah TV reported a series of Israeli air raids on Sanaa and the port city of Hodeidah , including attacks on two power plants and an oil facility . Yemen 's SABA news agency also reported that four raids targeted Hodeidah , with two strikes hitting the Ras Isa oil facility , causing casualties among the facility 's workers . <p> Israel and Iran have exchanged direct fire while Syria 's government , long an enemy of Israel , has collapsed under pressure from rebel forces . These regional conflicts have disrupted Iran 's network of allied groups . <p> The recent Israeli strikes , however , could lead to a bigger conflict with the Houthis . The Houthis , who control parts of Yemen , have been targeting the Red Sea shipping route , affecting global trade . The Houthi-controlled al-Masirah TV reported that the Israeli strikes hit power stations in Sanaa and the Ras Isa oil terminal , killing at least nine people . <p> Israel 's military did not provide specific details about the targets but confirmed they were used by the Houthis for military purposes , including smuggling weapons . The strikes were part of Israel 's broader effort to defend itself from Houthi attacks . Tensions escalated after Israel intercepted a missile fired from Yemen . The Houthis have attacked many ships in the Red Sea , with some targeting Western vessels and others , claiming their aim is to stop Israel 's offensive against Hamas in Gaza . <p> This conflict in Yemen is part of a larger war that has killed over 150,000 people and caused a severe humanitarian crisis .
