<p> Israelis protest against Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's government and call for the release of hostages held in the Gaza Strip AP <p> Gal Ferenbook , an Israel Defense Force ( IDF ) soldier arrived in Sri Lanka hoping to relax after a tour in Gaza . It is safe to assume that he was shocked when he got a call from his higher-ups back home on Wednesday . He was told to get out of the island nation if he did n't want to go from the cushiness of the beach resort room to the darkness of a prison cell ! <p> Gal Ferenbook , in a video that went viral on the internet , was seen being hailed by a colleague as the " Terminator " from the safety of what looked like an IDF facility . He had a broad smile on his face as his colleague zoomed the camera towards a screen in front of them which showed a Palestinian man lying motionless . Ferenbook was being hailed as a " Terminator " for taking down a Palestinian and there was no sign of the victim being armed . <p> The video which was taken as a trophy to celebrate a remorseless act , came back to haunt Gal Ferenbook as Hind Rajab Foundation , a Belgium-based pro-Palestine organisation , confirmed his presence in Sri Lanka and raised alarm . It demanded the Sri Lankan authorities detain " war criminal " Ferenbook and tipped off the International Criminal Court , and Interpol , reports said . <p> Israel , who understood which way things were heading , asked its soldier to cut his vacation short and come back home . <h> OSINT missions against IDF soldiers <p> Israel had warned its soldiers fighting in Gaza against shooting and sharing videos or photos from the frontlines on social media . At a time when the International Criminal Court issued arrest warrants for Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his former defense minister Yoav Gallant for alleged war crimes , it is no safer for the soldiers to avoid posting photos from Gaza online . Such materials available online are being gathered by anti-Israel activists and groups to be used against IDF in war crimes proceedings . <p> Right groups are spending hours online monitoring the social media accounts of IDF personnel to download any such material as soon as they are posted . Later , if these soldiers decide to make an international trip for leisure or other private purposes , their social media activities are again used to pinpoint their location . The activists will file they proceed and complaints against them locally , Israel found out . <p> The Times Of Israel identified recent instances of IDF soldiers being forced to leave Cyprus , Slovenia , and the Netherlands under similar circumstances . Dozens of fighters were told to avoid international vacations by Israel in the light of war crimes complaints filed against them , the report said . <p> In Gal Ferenbook 's case , the controversial video was posted on August 9 on his Instagram account , Times Of Israel said in a report . " Today , the #HindRajabFoundation has formally sent the ICC complaint against Gal Ferenbook to the governments of #SouthAfrica , #Ireland , and #Spain , urging them to issue arrest warrants and request Interpol Red Notices should he leave #SriLanka freely . Gal Ferenbook , a soldier with blood on his hands , is responsible for the killing of a Palestinian civilian and boasts about his actions in widely documented footage ( see video ) . As a war criminal , he must not be allowed to enjoy impunity . The Hind Rajab Foundation calls on the international community to act decisively and ensure accountability for his crimes , " the Belgian group said on X on December 18 . <p> From the comment section , it seems like the Israeli man made it out of Sri Lanka safely . <h> Can Israel protect its soldiers from arrest in foreign lands ? <p> Tel Aviv clarified that it will throw its weight behind its soldiers if anti-Israel groups decide to carry on with this modus operandi . Its diplomatic offices in respective countries will give asylum to any soldier who is arrested or asked to come in for questioning or feels threatened while abroad , the Israeli media . " The IDF does everything it can and uses all available means to protect its service members at home and abroad , " the report added .
