<p> A highly decorated former Israeli defense minister has caused a firestorm by accusing Israel of carrying out ethnic cleansing of Palestinians in northern Gaza . <p> Moshe Ya'alon , who served for three decades in the Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) , including in the elite Sayeret Matkal commando unit , and as the military 's chief of staff , also said that he believed Israel was losing its identity as a liberal democracy and becoming a " corrupt and leprous fascist Messianic state . " <p> The interviewer expressed surprise at Ya'alon 's use of the phrase " ethnic cleansing , " asking , " Is that what you think -- that we 're on the way there ? " <p> " Why ' on the way ? ' " he responded . " What 's happening there ? There 's no Beit Lahia . There 's no Beit Hanoun . They 're currently operating in Jabalya , and essentially , they 're cleaning the area of Arabs , " he said , referring to the IDF . <p> The Israeli military has for two months been carrying out an intense and deadly operation in northern Gaza , targeting what it says are resurgent Hamas militants . It has told all civilians that for their own safety , they must go to a humanitarian area in southern Gaza . Thousands of Palestinian civilians have refused to leave , after more than a year of being told to evacuate to areas of Gaza that are then also targeted by Israeli strikes . Vanishingly few aid deliveries have been allowed into northern Gaza , according to the World Food Programme . <p> Former Israeli Minister of Defense and IDF Chief of Staff Moshe ' Bogie ' Ya'alon waits to take the stage before speaking at a rally against the Netanyahu government outside the Knesset on June 18 in Jerusalem . <p> Alexi Rosenfeld/Getty Images <p> The Israeli military , responding to Ya'alon , denied that it was ethnically cleansing northern Gaza and said that it operated " in accordance with international law , and evacuates civilians based on operational necessity , for their own protection . " <p> The government has not yet presented a plan for post-war governance in Gaza . It has also denied it is implementing a " surrender or starve " proposal in northern Gaza put forward by a retired military general , Giora Eiland -- ? though it did consider the plan . <p> " I held up a mirror to the statements of many ministers and Knesset ( parliament ) members in the government , " Ya'alon said in a second interview , with Channel 12 . " Under this title , ethnic cleansing is effectively being carried out ; I do n't have another word for it . " <p> The interviewer said that such a phrase evoked " dark periods " in history . <p> " That 's right , and I purposely used this term to ring the alarm bells , " the former defense minister responded . <p> Extremist factions in Israeli politics have called for Jewish settlement in Gaza nearly since the outset of the war , following Hamas ' October 7 , 2023 , attack . Soldiers serving in Gaza have regularly promoted the return of Gush Katif -- ? Gaza settlements destroyed when Israel unilaterally withdrew from the territory in 2005 . And the ideas have gained traction : In October , hundreds of activists and several senior sitting ministers attended a Gush Katif conference near the Gaza border . <p> " We need to stay there , we need to establish a flourishing Jewish settlement there , " Israel 's far-right finance minister , Bezalel Smotrich , said in an interview with Israel TV channel Kan on Monday . " Both because this is the land of Israel and also because this guarantees the security of the residents of the South . " <p> Ya'alon joined a growing chorus in recent weeks referring to Israel 's military operation in northern Gaza as " ethnic cleansing . " <p> Israeli newspaper Haaretz published an editorial at the end of October titled : " If it looks liked ethnic cleansing , it probably is . " Human Rights Watch last month said in a 154-page report that Israel ? had overseen the forced mass displacement of Palestinians in Gaza in a deliberate and systematic campaign that amounts to a war crime and a crime against humanity . Josep Borrell , the European Union 's top diplomat , said he believes that " it is not by chance that ? the words ' ethnic cleansing ' are increasingly used ? to describe what is going on in north Gaza . " <p> An Israeli tank moves along the border between southern Israeli and Gaza . <p> Jack Guez/AFP/Getty Images <p> The International Criminal Court last month issued arrest warrants for Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant , saying it had " reasonable grounds " to believe that Netanyahu bears criminal responsibility for war crimes including " starvation ? as a method of warfare " and " the crimes against humanity of murder , persecution , and other inhumane acts . " It also issued a warrant for a senior Hamas official . <p> The former defense minister said that upon seeing what 's happening in Gaza , he could no longer use the oft-cited monicker for the IDF as the " most moral " military in the world . <p> " The IDF is not the most moral army today , " he said . " It 's hard for me to say that . " <p> His intervention drew harsh criticism from former military colleagues . " To lie and harm the State of Israel and the IDF is not following a compass -- this is lawlessness , " the politician Benny Gantz , who also served as IDF chief of staff , said in a statement . " The IDF has bent over backwards to minimize loss of civilian life , " Naftali Bennett , who also served in the Sayeret Matkal commando unit , said . " The population is moved away from danger for its own safety . It is not only the IDF 's right to do so , itis its obligation . " <p> Ya'alon said that while military commanders may believe their actions are purely operational , politicians have other plans in mind -- ? and his words were aimed at them .
