<p> Israel is committing genocide against Gaza 's Palestinians , according to a report from Amnesty International . <p> The human rights organisation 's 296-page dossier , entitled You Feel Like You Are Subhuman , says Benjamin Netanyahu 's government has unleashed hell on the Strip . It calls for an immediate end to all UK arms sales to Israel . <p> Sgnes Callamard , Amnesty International 's secretary general , said : " Israel has carried out acts prohibited under the Genocide Convention , with the specific intent to destroy Palestinians in Gaza . These acts include killings , causing serious harm and deliberately inflicting on Palestinians in Gaza conditions calculated to bring about their physical destruction . Month after month , Israel has treated Palestinians in Gaza as a subhuman group unworthy of human rights and dignity . " <p> The report quotes a Palestinian witness in Gaza , named Mohammed . He fled with his family from Gaza City to Rafah in March , only to be displaced again in May . <p> Mohammed says : " Here in Deir al-Balah , it 's like an apocalypse . You have to protect your children from insects , from the heat , and there is no clean water , no toilets , all while the bombing never stops . You feel like you are subhuman here . " <p> On Wednesday , Israeli planes bombed the Nuseirat refugee camp in central Gaza , killing four children and one adult . Medics said another 15 people , mostly children , were hurt . In Lebanon , a fragile ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah has held despite Israeli forces carrying out several drone and artillery strikes on Tuesday , killing a shepherd . <p> Palestinians , displaced from Beit Lahia , arrive in Jabalia in the northern Gaza Strip on December 4 , 2024 ( <p> Image : <p> AFP via Getty Images ) <p> War in Gaza began when Hamas militants stormed Israel on October 7 last year , killing some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and taking around 250 hostages . Israel 's retaliation has killed at least 44,500 Palestinians , more than half of them women and children , according to Gaza 's Health Ministry . <p> For its report , which is released today , Amnesty examined 15 Israeli airstrikes which killed at least 334 civilians -- including 141 children -- and wounded hundreds of others . It said : " Amnesty found no evidence that any of these attacks were directed at a military objective . The attacks were also conducted in ways designed to cause a very high number of fatalities and injuries among the civilian population . " <p> Amnesty says Israel has combined airstrikes and ground attacks , killing civilians , with a deadly blockade causing malnutrition . It draws on witness accounts , interviews with healthcare officials , studies of data , satellite and digital imagery and warnings of crimes by officials ahead of the assaults . <p> Israel says it tries to avoid harming civilians and blames their deaths on Hamas because the militants operate in residential areas , where they have built tunnels , rocket launchers and other military infrastructure . The Israeli government denies the allegations , accusing critics of being biased against it .
