<p> A hundred and one lanterns were held aloft in the night sky in Brighton to raise awareness of the 101 hostages still captive in Gaza ( Photo : Heidi Bachram ) <p> One hundred and one lanterns , each representing a hostage still held in Gaza by Hamas , were held aloft in the night sky on the southern England coast in a poignant display of solidarity with the hostages by Brighton 's Jewish community and its supporters . <p> Over one hundred members of Brighton &amp; Hove 's Jewish and Israeli communities , as well as non-Jewish friends took part in the display on Monday night on Hove Lawns , using the lanterns to form the shapes of a candle and a ribbon , the symbol for the plight of the hostages . <p> Brighton resident Adam Ma'anit , whose cousin Tsachi Idan was kidnapped from his home on October 7 , told participants that seeing hostage Edan Alexander appear in a video released by Hamas a couple of days prior was a reminder that efforts to get them free and out of Gaza must be " redoubled " . <p> " This is not a political issue ; it is a humanitarian issue . The plight of the hostages should rise above the murk of war , " he said . <p> The evening also marked the launch of a national campaign aimed at getting people to wear a yellow ribbon , tie ribbons onto things and write to their representatives about the hostages . <p> Heidi Bachram of the Yellow Ribbon Campaign said at the event : " Emily Damari 's mum Mandy is in the UK advocating for her daughter . She said Emily may never heal after what she 's endured after a year in hell . She must be given the chance to because the alternative is unthinkable . We must never accept this as normal . " <p> Last night in Brighton we held 101 lanterns for the hostages still captive in Gaza . My husband held one high for his cousin Tsachi . They are slipping into the dark but we will NEVER let them be forgotten . <p> The event , during which speeches were made and the Hatikvah was sung , was organised by the Yellow Ribbon Campaign in partnership with the Board of Deputies of British Jews , the Sussex Jewish Representative Council and the Brighton &amp; Hove Jewish Community . <p> Of the 101 people still being held in the tunnels of Gaza by Hamas , 423 days after they were abducted , at least nine are reported to have connections to the UK through British relatives , including British citizen and hostage Emily Damari , who was taken from Kibbutz Kfar Aza on October 7.
