<h> The need for balanced sources of news is now greater than ever <h> The need for balanced sources of news is now greater than ever <p> " DO N'T shoot the messenger " takes on a chilling note when you consider the rising toll of journalists , media operators and technicians killed in the ongoing genocide in Gaza . Since the beginning of the war , at least 140 journalists and media workers have been killed , several have been injured and others are missing . We know it 's not fake news because the International Federation of Journalists works closely with its affiliate , the Palestinian Journalists Syndicate ( PJS ) , to verify information . This has documented the killing of 130 Palestinian journalists and media workers . <p> But according to the PJS , that is only part of the picture . 21 local radio stations , 15 local and international news agencies , 15 TV stations , six local newspapers , three broadcasting towers , eight print media outlets and 13 media institutions have been destroyed . For a year now only " locals " have been able to report on the ongoing genocide since the Israeli government continues to bar foreign press from entering and reporting from Gaza and the West Bank . Who would be a messenger ? Only the bravest ! <p> Naturally then , Western media has relentlessly called out the murdering of fellow media workers along with the accompanying draconian censorship , yes ? Well no . Sadly , but true , Western journalists and media outlets with few exceptions ( The National 's David Pratt spring to mind ) continue to provide us with a parroted , one-sided diktat . Journalists reporting from the " front line " of the action are in fact embedded within different IDF units , and we know the limitations that come with being " embedded " : not least , the resultant lack of objectivity . <p> Not content with this , the Israeli Cabinet passed the boycotting of Haaretz on November 24 . This newspaper considered " left-wing " is the oldest newspaper in print in Israel and widely read abroad via its English language edition . The boycott is yet the latest action against Haaretz by the Israeli government , since it has been and continues to frequently be critical of both the government and the IDF : accusing , naming and shaming . <p> Richard Walker said that " The National was created not to be a balanced newspaper but to be the newspaper that provided the balance " ( Nov 29 ) . With the explosion of social media platforms , difficult to monitor and mostly unregulated , the need for sources able to provide a " balance " and be " believable " is more important than ever . We have to have " go to " sites we can trust . <p> But without a majority " balance " , we are witness to the rise of extremism , aided and abetted by the unchecked ability to censor , the denying of access to sources , the impunity of mainstream media to misrepresent through bias , and the killing of the story along with the messengers . <p> Dangerous times for us all . <p> Selma Rahman Edinburgh <p> DURING a debate on Tuesday in the House of Commons regarding the increase to employers ' National Insurance , SNP MP Dave Doogan highlighted that the public sector in Scotland will be worse affected than that of the rest of the UK . Worse affected because 22% of employees in Scotland work in the public sector , whereas the equivalent figure in the rest of the UK is 17% . <p> Our private sector here in Scotland will take a hit of ? 1.25 billion and our strapped local authorities and world-leading universities will be badly affected . This move by the Labour government is devastating for the Scottish budget , yet despite the devastation there was a dearth of Scottish MPs representing businesses and local authorities in their constituencies in the Commons . Even the Secretary of State for Scotland was conspicuous by his absence . <h> Why are you making commenting on The National only available to subscribers ? <p> We know there are thousands of National readers who want to debate , argue and go back and forth in the comments section of our stories . We 've got the most informed readers in Scotland , asking each other the big questions about the future of our country . <p> Unfortunately , though , these important debates are being spoiled by a vocal minority of trolls who are n't really interested in the issues , try to derail the conversations , register under fake names , and post vile abuse . <p> So that 's why we 've decided to make the ability to comment only available to our paying subscribers . That way , all the trolls who post abuse on our website will have to pay if they want to join the debate -- and risk a permanent ban from the account that they subscribe with . <p> The conversation will go back to what it should be about -- people who care passionately about the issues , but disagree constructively on what we should do about them . Let 's get that debate started ! <p> Callum Baird , Editor of The National <h> Comments : Our rules <p> We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues . The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege , not a right , however , and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused. <h> follow us <p> This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation 's Editors ' Code of Practice . If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion , then please contact the editor here . If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact IPSO here
