<h> Israel committing genocide in Gaza , Amnesty report finds <p> " Month after month , Israel has treated Palestinians in Gaza as a subhuman group unworthy of human rights and dignity , demonstrating its intent to physically destroy them , " said Agn ? s Callamard , secretary-general of Amnesty International. ? Chamila Karunarathne/EPA-EFE <p> Israel is committing genocide against the Palestinians in Gaza , a landmark report from Amnesty International published Thursday concluded , the organization 's first such determination during an active armed conflict . <p> The report , which analyzed interviews with 212 people , alongside satellite imagery , visual evidence and statements by Israeli officials , found Israel 's actions in the wake of the Oct. 7 Hamas-led attacks are prohibited under the Genocide Convention and conducted with the specific intent to destroy Palestinians in Gaza . <p> Israel forcefully rejected the report 's claims , with a spokesperson dismissing it as " entirely false " and " based on lies , " adding that Amnesty is a " deplorable and fanatical organization . " <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Amnesty said it shared its findings with Israeli authorities but received " no substantive response " by the time of publication . <p> The report warned that countries supplying arms to Israel , including the United States and Germany , are failing in their obligation to prevent genocide . In the first year of its war in Gaza , Israel has killed more than 42,000 Palestinians , including over 13,300 children , and injured over 97,000 more , according to Gaza 's health ministry . Amnesty says the real figures could be even higher . <p> " Month after month , Israel has treated Palestinians in Gaza as a subhuman group unworthy of human rights and dignity , demonstrating its intent to physically destroy them , " said Agn ? s Callamard , secretary-general of Amnesty International. ? <p> In October , a United Nations Independent Commission presented a report to the U.N . General Assembly on human rights abuses in Israel and the Palestinian territories , concluded that Israeli security forces have deliberately killed , wounded , arrested , detained , mistreated and tortured health workers , alleging war crimes and the crime against humanity of extermination . <p> The International Criminal Court has filed arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant , for war crimes and crimes against humanity in Gaza . The ICC also filed a warrant for the arrest of Hamas Commander Mohammed Diab Ibrahim Al-Masri , who Israel says it killed in July .
