<p> The UK government has said it is reviewing its decision to allow the continued export of F-35 fighter jet components in light of concerns that they could end up in Israel , according to campaigners who are seeking to block the exports . <p> In a statement on Wednesday , two campaign groups taking legal action against the government said it had written to them to confirm that it is reviewing both the export of the fighter jet parts to a global supply pool and continuing direct arms export licences to Israel . <p> It comes after the two groups , the UK-based Global Legal Action Network ( Glan ) , and Al-Haq , a Palestinian human rights organisation , last week threatened to seek an emergency court injunction to stop all arms exports to Israel over concerns that British-made weapons could be used by Israeli forces in Gaza in violation of international humanitarian law . <p> " In response to our pre-action letter sent last week , the UK government has said it is reviewing its decision to allow the export of components for the F-35 warplane to a global pool which serves Israel and other direct arms export licences , " the two groups said . <p> The UK government in September suspended 30 arms export licences to Israel after a review found there was a clear risk they could be used in violations . <h> New MEE newsletter : Jerusalem Dispatch <h> Sign up to get the latest insights and analysis on Israel-Palestine , alongside Turkey Unpacked and other MEE newsletters <p> But hundreds of arms export licences remain in place . <p> The government also said in September that it would not suspend the export of F-35 components to a global pool , even though Israel could then access those parts , because , it said , the F-35 programme was " integral to international security " . <p> As part of legal action brought by Glan and Al-Haq , the government last month revealed it had assessed that suspending F-35 exports would " undermine US confidence in the UK and Nato " and would have " a profound impact on international peace and security " . <p> The campaign groups say that F-35 jets have played a key role in Israel 's war against Hamas in Gaza , in which almost 45,000 people have been killed , according to the Palestinian health ministry . <p> Israel is also accused of genocide in an ongoing case at the International Court of Justice , and Glan and Al-Haq have warned that continuing weapons exports risks leaving British officials exposed to accusations of complicity in genocide . <p> Shawan Jabarin , Al-Haq 's general director , said : " Every day , our people are being killed by F-35s in Gaza . This must stop . The UK has international obligations to stop supplying arms and parts to Israel used to commit international crimes including genocide . " <p> Dearbhla Minogue , senior lawyer with Glan , said , " We welcome the fact that the government has been compelled to reconsider this F-35 ' carve-out ' . The position they took is , in our estimation , legally untenable and we hope they will finally do the only reasonable thing - stop the transfer of any British weapons for use by Israel against Palestinians . " <p> When contacted by Middle East Eye , the Department for Business and Trade declined to comment . <p> In September , Jonathan Reynolds , the secretary of state for business and trade , told MPs that exports to the global F-35 programme would be kept under review . <p> Last month , Angela Eagle , a defence minister , told MPs that the US government controlled the global distribution of F-35 components . <p> Asked by Independent MP Zarah Sultana about F-35 components exported from the UK to Israel via the US since October 2023 , Eagle said : " The government does not have visibility of F-35 components distributed by the programme to each F-35 nation and is unable to provide an estimate . " <p> Eagle separately said there had been 14 transfers of F-35 components from an RAF base to Israel between October 2023 and August 2024 " at the request of the US-led F-35 Programme " . <p> Middle East Eye delivers independent and unrivalled coverage and analysis of the Middle East , North Africa and beyond . To learn more about republishing this content and the associated fees , please fill out this form . More about MEE can be found here .
