<p> While Israeli forces and Hamas militants engage in a brutal Gaza conflict over the last year , Israel has also waged a separate war against Hezbollah , bombing suspected militant sites across Lebanon in response to months of rocket bombardments on Israel 's north . The two fronts were , for a time , taken as a sign that a broader regional war was not merely possible but already underway . <p> However , the U.S.-France-brokered ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah has succeeded in reducing hostilities between the two adversaries . And , in turn , the fragile detente has refocused attention back on the Gaza Strip , where a diminished Hamas remains a potent force . <h> Is Hamas more isolated now ? <p> Hamas is " feeling the pressure " stemming from Hezbollah 's ceasefire agreement , National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan said on CBS ' " Face the Nation . " Hezbollah has been " one of Hamas ' main partners in crime " and the truce undercuts their belief that the Lebanese militia would be " with them till the end . " The Palestinian group had long hoped a " wider war in the Middle East would help deliver the organization a victory in its war with Israel , " The New York Times said . But the Hezbollah ceasefire " left that strategy in tatters " and potentially removed " Hamas ' most important ally from the fight . " <p> Crucially , both organizations are participants in " what Israel has come to see as a seven-front war , " in which " Iran has backed an array of groups " including Hamas , Hezbollah and others , said Foundation for the Defense of Democracies adjunct fellow Seth Frantzman at The National Interest . The ceasefire " signals a shift in the attitude of both militias ' Iranian backers , " said Charles Hollis , a former British diplomat to Iran , to NBC News . " The Iranians are n't going to have nearly as much ability to resupply their proxies because they 're having to shore up their own domestic defense . " <h> Could an Israel-Hamas ceasefire be next ? <p> Hamas leadership had initially " hoped the expansion of the war into Lebanon would pressure Israel to reach a comprehensive ceasefire , " Reuters said . That Israel and Hezbollah reached a ceasefire independently represents a " blow " to the Palestinian group , given Hezbollah 's previous insistence that it " would not agree to a ceasefire until the war in Gaza ends . " Among Palestinians , there are fears that the ceasefire means Israel will " double down on the enclave now that its forces will be freed up from the fighting against Hezbollah , " Al Jazeera said . <p> To that end , while Hamas has expressed hopes that " any deal with Hezbollah would lead to the end of hostilities " between it and Israel , the group has " not indicated that it has shifted from previous negotiating positions " such as a permanent ceasefire and full Israeli withdrawal from Gaza in exchange for any further hostage releases , NBC said . <p> Still , that does not mean Hamas is willing to publicly denounce the ceasefire agreement either . " Any announcement of a ceasefire is welcome , " Hamas political wing member Osama Hamdan said in an interview with Hezbollah-allied broadcaster Al-Mayadeen , according to The Times of Israel . " Hezbollah has stood by our people and made significant sacrifices . " <h> Sign up for Today 's Best Articles in your inbox <p> A free daily email with the biggest news stories of the day -- and the best features from TheWeek.com <p> Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over . <p> Rafi Schwartz has worked as a politics writer at The Week since 2022 , where he covers elections , Congress and the White House . He was previously a contributing writer with Mic focusing largely on politics , a senior writer with Splinter News , a staff writer for Fusion 's news lab , and the managing editor of Heeb Magazine , a Jewish life and culture publication . Rafi 's work has appeared in Rolling Stone , GOOD and The Forward , among others .
