<p> A Palestinian woman walks past a damaged wall bearing the UNRWA logo at a camp for internally displaced people in Rafah ( Getty Images ) <p> The UN 's main aid agency in Gaza employed headteachers who fought in Hamas ' Qassam brigades and were members of Palestinian Islamic Jihad , according to documents released by Israel to the New York Times . <p> The paper requested documents from Israel specifically related to UNRWA school employees after Israel distributed a list of 100 agency workers it said were terrorists . <p> Through analysis of the documents , obtained by Israel during its military campaign in Gaza , and interviews with " current and former UNRWA employees , residents and former students in Gaza , " the New York Times found that " at least 24 people employed by UNRWA -- in 24 different schools " belonged to Hamas or Palestinian Islamic Jihad ( PIJ ) . <p> " A majority were top administrators at the schools -- principals or deputy principals -- and the rest were school counselors and teachers , the documents say . Almost all of the Hamas-linked educators , according to the records , were fighters in the Qassam Brigades , " the paper reported . <p> Educational staff being in Hamas was an " open secret " and one teacher was regularly seen in Hamas uniform carrying an AK-47 . <p> One educator on Israel 's list of 100 was regularly seen after hours in Hamas fatigues carrying a Kalashnikov , " the paper said . <p> The records show that Hamas viewed schools and other civilian facilities as " the best obstacles to protect the resistance " in the group 's war with Israel . <p> Hamas 's use of UNRWA schools also went beyond Gaza 's borders . The Times noted that in September , Hamas announced the death of its leader in Lebanon . Fateh Sherif Abu el-Amin was killed in an airstrike in the Tyre area in the south of the country on Sept. 30 . <p> U.N . Watch revealed that el-Amin was the principal of the UNRWA-run Deir Yassin Secondary School in El-Buss and headed the UNRWA teachers ' union in Lebanon , overseeing 39,000 students in 65 schools . <p> Over the course of months , Israel has revealed that UNRWA employed hundreds of terrorists . <p> In July , Israel 's Foreign Ministry released what it said was only a partial list , containing the names and ID numbers of 108 UNRWA employees who according to Israel worked for Hamas . According to the ministry , the wider list could not be released due to security considerations . <p> " We have provided much evidence that UNRWA works hand-in-hand with Hamas , " said Prime Minister 's Office spokesman David Mencer , referring to the Hamas server farm discovered underneath UNRWA 's headquarters in Gaza City and Hamas tunnels underneath UNRWA schools in the Strip . <p> In October , the Knesset voted to ban UNRWA , with the Foreign Ministry calling the refugee agency " rotten . " <p> " It is not just a few rotten apples , as U.N . Secretary-General Antonio Guterres is trying to claim . UNRWA in Gaza is a rotten tree entirely infected with terrorist operatives , " the ministry said .
