<h> Campaigners call for the immediate release of hostages on Human Rights Day <p> The Stop The Hate and Hostages and Missing Families Forum UK campaign groups with posters of hostages still held in Gaza ( photo : Elliott Franks ) <p> In dramatic scenes , campaigners wearing yellow blindfolds and T-shirts emblazoned with " Let them go ! " demonstrated in central London on Tuesday afternoon , calling for the release of the 101 hostages still held in Gaza after more than 430 days . <p> Planned to coincide with International Human Rights Day , the group , holding posters of the captives , stood outside the embassies of Turkey , Qatar and Egypt , countries which have had significant roles in recent hostage negotiations and which , in the case of Turkey and Qatar , have expressed support for Hamas . <p> The demonstrators , led by the Hostages and Missing Families Forum UK and Stop the Hate campaign group , attempted to hand deliver letters demanding the immediate and unconditional release of all the hostages . Only the Egyptian embassy accepted the letter . <p> Attempting to deliver a letter to the Turkish , Egyptian and Qatari embassies in London . Only the Egyptian embassy accepted the letter ( Photo : Elliott Franks ) <p> A spokesperson for the rally said : " Outside these embassies , our activists stood in solidarity with the hostages , ensuring their suffering is not forgotten . We will not rest until every hostage is brought home . <p> " We call on the global community to hold nations accountable for their role in enabling or mitigating such tragedies and demand immediate , concerted action for the release of innocent lives held in captivity . " <p> They said that while the Egyptian embassy had demonstrated " its willingness to engage in dialogue and uphold its responsibilities as a regional mediator " , Turkey and Qatar " must be reminded of their obligations under international law to condemn terrorism and take decisive steps to end this humanitarian crisis " . <p> The campaigners travelled in a bus which drew attention to the plight of the nine hostages with family ties to Britain . <p> The campaigners travelled in a bus which drew attention to the nine hostages with family ties to Britain ( Photo : Elliott Franks ) <p> According to reports released on Monday , renewed mediated negotiations between Israel and Hamas which would lead to a ceasefire and the release of hostages , had advanced to the stage where both sides were discussing lists of who would be released . <p> Mandy Damari , the mother of the only British hostage still in Gaza , has called on Britain to push for her daughter , Emily , 28 , to be included on the list , along with several others who have links to this country . <p> Nivi Feldman , chair of Hostages and Missing Families Forum UK , said afterwards : " The 100 hostages is not an Israeli problem . It is a British problem and it 's also a problem for the other 20 countries that have its nationals being held hostage for over 432 days in captivity against any human rights . Let them go today . Their families are waiting for them . We are all waiting for them . <p> " We hope the Qatar , Turkey or Egypt will manage to mediate a deal where all hostages return and all sides can heal . " <p> Itai Galmudy , Stop the Hate UK , said : " We will not rest until every hostage is brought home . We call on the global community to hold nations accountable for their role in enabling or mitigating such tragedies and demand immediate , concerted action for the release of innocent lives held in captivity . " <p> The Stop The Hate and Hostages and Missing Families Forum UK campaign groups , with posters of hostages held in Gaza after 430 days , attempt to deliver letters to the Turkish , Egyptian and Qatari embassies in London ( Photo : Elliott Franks ) <p> Israel 's foreign minister Gideon Saar said : " We can be more optimistic than before , but we are not there yet . I hope we will be there . " <p> He added : " There will not be a ceasefire in Gaza without a hostage deal . " <p> On October 7 2023 , hundreds of Hamas terrorists broke through the border fence between Gaza and southern Israel and massacred more than 1,200 people , taking over 250 hostages into Gaza . Of these , 101 remain . <p> Human Rights Day is observed annually and commemorates the anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights ( UDHR ) .
