<h> Gaza is being wiped out . We need a permanent ceasefire now <p> For more than 14 months , starvation , disease and destruction have become the grim daily reality for Palestinians in the besieged enclave <p> Children cry as people mourn Palestinians killed in an Israeli strike , at Nasser hospital in Khan Younis in the southern Gaza Strip on 5 December , 2024 ( Reuters ) <p> During more than 14 months of Israel 's war on Gaza , the word " ceasefire " has been on everyone 's lips . But only the people of Gaza truly understand what such talk really means . <p> Despite countless negotiations aimed at bringing about a ceasefire , none have succeeded . Still , whenever discussions heat up about a possible truce , the streets of Gaza come alive . Adults and children alike cheerfully shout about their hopes for peace , although nothing is ever guaranteed . <p> They yearn to believe in the possibility of a better future , clinging to any fleeting moments of optimism . Amid our daily struggle for survival , the resilient people of Gaza find joy in the simplest things . <p> Thus far , we have seen only one brief truce ; it took place in November 2023 and lasted only a few days . For the people of Gaza , it was neither satisfying nor enjoyable , but rather filled with pain and sorrow , as many spent those days mourning their lost loved ones . <p> People understood that once the truce ended , the violence would only escalate , resulting in even greater suffering . They looked on in helpless anguish at the wreckage of their destroyed homes . <h> New MEE newsletter : Jerusalem Dispatch <h> Sign up to get the latest insights and analysis on Israel-Palestine , alongside Turkey Unpacked and other MEE newsletters <p> And indeed , once that brief humanitarian truce came to an end , the brutality of the Israeli war intensified dramatically . We 've witnessed a shocking loss of life , with thousands of mothers and children among the victims . <p> Schools meant to shelter displaced families have been relentlessly bombed , and mosques reduced to rubble . Civilians in makeshift tents have suffered horrifically , while hospitals providing care have been mercilessly invaded . <p> For more than 14 months , starvation , disease and destruction have become the grim reality for the people of Gaza . <h> Hope amid sadness <p> Each time I hear about new negotiations for a ceasefire , I feel increasingly pessimistic , as these discussions never seem to lead anywhere . The reality is that the people of Gaza do not want a temporary truce ; they long for a permanent ceasefire , which would allow them to return to their homes and live peacefully . <p> They want the freedom to sleep soundly without the terror of bombs ; to escape the haunting sounds of Israeli drones ; and to be free from the sight of missiles overhead . Their aspirations are simple , yet profound ; they wish to pursue their dreams , to educate and learn , to work , and to move about their lives without the constant fear of violence . <p> As everyone waits for an end to Israel 's onslaught , children have started to play and joke about the notion , cheering " ceasefire , ceasefire " as they run through the streets . <p> This momentarily brings smiles to the faces of those around them , who briefly hope it might be real before realising it 's just a game - although the laughter feels good . In those moments , I ca n't help but think : what if a ceasefire was really declared , allowing families to return home and restart their lives ? Just the thought of that brings a little hope amid all the sadness . <p> Gaza has essentially become an orphan , receiving neither support nor compassion from an unjust global community <p> Last month , a ceasefire came into effect for our close ally , Lebanon - a development that brought great joy to Palestinians , who face similar challenges . We hope and pray that Gaza will be next , allowing our people to return home and restore the normalcy we enjoyed before the conflict . <p> Only those who have lived through war can truly grasp the significance of a ceasefire : the end of bombings , relief from the terror of sleepless nights , and an alleviation of fears that one 's home could collapse at any moment . <p> Amid my genuine joy for the Lebanese people , I desperately hope for a ceasefire in Gaza . It has been more than 430 days since we last felt safe ; since we could sleep soundly , without the dread of losing our loved ones or our own lives . Yet , while the suffering in Lebanon might have lessened , ours seems to be escalating . <p> After 14 months of a relentless conflict that has ravaged the Gaza Strip and claimed the lives of more than 44,000 people , Palestinians feel abandoned by the world . Gaza has essentially become an orphan , receiving neither support nor compassion from an unjust global community . <p> Enough is enough ; we are exhausted . The violence in Gaza must end . Our people are being systematically wiped out , starved and bombed day after day . How many more lives must be lost before this war is halted ? <p> The views expressed in this article belong to the author and do not necessarily reflect the editorial policy of Middle East Eye . <p> Middle East Eye delivers independent and unrivalled coverage and analysis of the Middle East , North Africa and beyond . To learn more about republishing this content and the associated fees , please fill out this form . More about MEE can be found here .
