<h> This is the last article you can read this month <h> You can read more article this month <h> You can read more articles this month <h> Sorry your limit is up for this month <p> IT has been a tough year for very basic assumptions about common humanity and the most fundamental of shared values . The scales have again been forced from our eyes once more as the most powerful nations in the world essentially only endorse power even in extremis . <p> Most MPs elected this year remain silent on the Israeli genocide of Palestinians , while figures like David Lammy and Keir Starmer appear to think it does n't count as a crime . It 's been a tough year for anyone bearing witness to body parts strewn across phone screens , tougher more to observe Israeli soldiers prancing in stolen clothing and stitching children 's toys to D9 bulldozers . <p> One key outcome of 2024 has been the exposure of the " might is right " system and the nature of zionism . If there is one thing that Hamas achieved it was this exposure of what zionism really is , and which is why amid the carnage it makes sense to get better informed about who did what and why . <p> Hamas and Hezbollah have been monstered in the mainstream media . At the beginning of the genocide Israeli propagandists were keen to elide them with extremist bogeymen . With breathtaking hypocrisy Hamas was slandered as " Hamas-Isis " in 2023 , but in 2024 an offshoot of the actual Isis took power in Syria , and this time to Western acclaim . <p> Hezbollah was formed in 1982 and Hamas in 1987 as responses to Israeli attacks in Lebanon and Palestine . Both started as expressions of Islam , as Shi'te and Sunni respectively . Both experienced the lethal expansionist intentions of zionism , its ethnosupremacy , willingness to use force and alliance with the most powerful nation on Earth , itself with a track record of genocide and the gleeful use of military power . From a position of extreme weakness , both Islamist organisations first turned to religion for purity and strength . <p> Both , however , developed explicitly secular goals : resistance to zionism and colonialism . Hamas , under siege for almost its entire existence was able to form strategies of impact but not to acquire great military strength . Hezbollah became a formidable military force ultimately expelling the Israelis from Lebanon in 2004 . Both were pragmatic organisations that had ultimately to deal with reality , including expecting -- as inevitable -- the assassination of their leaderships . The lesson both organisations learned was that power only respects power . <p> Amid many considerations it is worth remembering that the present world crisis was catalysed by a group of people marginalised , incarcerated and then besieged and attacked unlike any other in modern times . It 's worth remembering what organisation , strategy , discipline and determination can achieve , no matter how it is ultimately judged . <p> The tragedy is that had Israel decided to obey international law the " security " some experts thought it sought as a primary goal had been achievable for decades . Gaza , A History ( Hurst , ? 18.99 ) described what happened but was quite weak on why . Expansion was driven by ideology , racism was a primary part of that ideology . Alas , security does not seem to be the primary goal of the Israeli state , rather it was expansion at any cost . <p> There are many things which drive ideology . You quickly learn that the mainstream media has a role in this and this survey of the mainstream press showed that the news has rarely been about actual news . Terry Kirby provided us with a portrait of the tabloid press as poisonous political weapons in The Newsmongers , A History of Tabloid Journalism ( Reaktion , ? 20 ) . <p> However , the turd of the year has to go to Dictators Inc . Lauded as an intellectual manifesto of the technocratic elite who could sort out the world if only they were allowed to , this was in reality a work of ideological fundamentalism . People and countries are either ( only ) good or ( only ) bad based on identities assigned by ideology . <p> It does , however , show that the ruling class is just as blind as we once were .
