<p> The Israeli military battered Kamal Adwan Hospital innorthern Gaza with heavy ground and aerial bombardment overnight Thursday into Friday , according to the director of the facility , who described as a " catastrophic " barrage . <p> Israeli forces dropped bombs from quadcopters and injured at least three medical staff , including one colleague who had been injured at least twice before , Dr Hussam Abu Safiya , the director of Kamal Adwan Hospital , told CNN on Friday . <p> " Tonight was one of the most difficult nights , " Abu Safiya said on a voice message , which was punctuated by the sound of bombardment . The area around the hospital has been targeted with intense strikes this week . <p> The scale and ferocity of the attacks blew off doors and windows on one side of the hospital , said Abu Safiya , adding water tanks " were blown away from the intensity of the explosion . " <p> " As of now , heavy bombing persists throughout the night , accompanied by ongoing destruction of buildings , " he added . <p> " It is a catastrophic scene , with airstrikes and artillery shelling occurring with unprecedented intensity and frequency . " <p> Israeli forces launched an aerial and ground incursion in several parts of northern Gaza in early October , saying they were targeting Hamas ' renewed presence there . The two-month onslaught has razed streets into carpets of debris , killed entire families , and severely depleted food , water and medical stocks . The Israeli military has fired on Kamal Adwan Hospital on a daily basis , and raided the facility at least six times since October 5 , Abu Safiya told CNN . <p> The Israeli military says Hamas uses hospitals for its military operations . Hamas denies using hospitals as cover . CNN can not independently verify either claim . <p> CNN has reached out to the Israeli military about Abu Safiya 's accusations . <p> Palestinians flee Israeli attacks in Jabalya , in northern Gaza , on December 4 . Human rights agencies say Israel 's aid restrictions have depleted food and water stocks in the area . <p> Dawoud Abu Alkas/Reuters <p> On Friday , COGAT , Israel 's aid agency said that " intense fighting has been taking place in certain areas of the northern Gaza Strip between IDF forces and terrorist organizations operating in the area . " <p> More than 4,000 Palestinians have been killed or reported missing , Gaza 's Civil Defense spokesperson , Mahmoud Basal , said on Tuesday , since October 5 . Another 12,000 people have been injured . Emergency crews have previously told CNN that the magnitude of the Israeli assault means they are struggling to access survivors trapped under the rubble of pancaked buildings . <p> COGAT said the Israeli military had " allowed and facilitated the evacuation of patients , escorts , and staff " from Kamal Adwan Hospital , to other health centers in the northern and southern parts of the strip . <p> COGAT added that " efforts had been made to facilitate and coordinate the delivery of supplies to the hospital , including food , water , medical equipment , and fuel . " <p> But humanitarian agencies have warned that barely a trickle of aid has entered neighborhoods and hospitals in northern Gaza . Israel 's sustained aid restrictions have cut off between 65,000 to 75,000 trapped residents from access to food , water , electricity or reliable healthcare , the UN 's agency for Palestine refugees ( UNRWA ) reported on December 12 . <p> On Thursday , the head of the UN World Health Organization ( WHO ) said Israeli authorities had repeatedly denied humanitarian access to Kamal Adwan Hospital , where at least 96 patients , and health staff , " urgently need support . " <p> " The World Health Organization was denied three times in the last four days to access the hospital to deliver medical supplies and fuel ; transfer critical patients to Al-Shifa Hospital ; and deploy an international emergency medical team , " Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said in a post on X. <p> " Hostilities continue . Today a nurse was killed in an attack while he was on the way to Kamal Adwan , " he added . On Thursday , a leading orthopedic surgeon , Dr. Saeed Jouda , was killed on Thursday while traveling near Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza , according to the hospital . CNN asked the Israeli military about Jouda 's death .
