<p> Israeli troops in the southern Gaza Strip . It is understood a deal would involve a phased ceasefire with an initial cessations of hostilities for 60 days in exchange for the release of surviving hostages . Photograph : Israeli Army/AFP/Getty Images <p> Israeli troops in the southern Gaza Strip . It is understood a deal would involve a phased ceasefire with an initial cessations of hostilities for 60 days in exchange for the release of surviving hostages . Photograph : Israeli Army/AFP/Getty Images <p> The pace of talks aimed at securing a ceasefire-for-hostages agreement in Gaza appeared to be accelerating , amid claims on both sides that a deal may be within reach , perhaps within days <p> Senior Israeli officials , Hamas sources , and US and Arab officials have all expressed optimism that a deal may be close for a phased release of the surviving hostages in Gaza in exchange for a ceasefire and the release of Palestinian prisoners held in Israeli jails . <p> About 60 living hostages , mainly Israeli and dual nationals , are believed to be still held in Gaza as well as the bodies of 35 others , out of more than 240 who were abducted to Gaza during Hamas 's surprise attack on Israel on 7 October 2023 . <p> On Tuesday an Israeli negotiating team travelled to Qatar while a report from Reuters -- denied by his office and Egypt -- said that the prime minister , Benjamin Netanyahu , was planning to travel to Cairo for talks . <p> Two Egyptian security sources added , however , that Netanyahu was not in Cairo " at this moment " but that a meeting was under way to work through the remaining points -- chief among them a Hamas demand for guarantees that any immediate deal would lead to a comprehensive agreement later . <p> Hamas said in a statement that a deal was possible if Israel stopped setting new conditions . A Palestinian official close to the mediation efforts said negotiations were serious , with discussions under way about every word . <p> Reinforcing the sense of optimism the White House spokesperson John Kirby said in an interview with Fox News : " We believe -- and the Israelis have said this -- that we 're getting closer , and no doubt about it , we believe that , but we also are cautious in our optimism . " <p> He added , however : " We 've been in this position before where we were n't able to get it over the finish line . " <p> A report in the Washington Post on Tuesday suggested that Hamas had softened its demands for a full withdrawal of Israeli troops from the Gaza Strip as a precondition of a deal . <p> Both sides have expressed optimism in recent days that a deal may be close for a phased release of the surviving hostages in Gaza in exchange for a ceasefire and the release of Palestinian prisoners held in Israeli jails . <p> The incoming US president , Donald Trump , has said he wants to see the hostages released or " all hell 's going to break out " and has sent a hostage envoy to Israel for meetings with senior politicians , including Netanyahu , whom Trump spoke to over the weekend . <p> On Monday , the Israeli defence minister , Israel Katz , briefed lawmakers that Israel and Hamas were " the closest we 've been to a hostage deal since the last deal " , which took place in November 2023 and resulted in the release of more than 100 hostages . <p> He added that he expected the deal to get widespread support . " There will be a sweeping majority in the security cabinet and the cabinet for the emerging hostage deal . " <p> Katz has said Israel would maintain security control over Gaza after a ceasefire . <p> " After we defeat Hamas 's military and governing power in Gaza , Israel will maintain security control over Gaza with full freedom of action , " he said . " We will not allow a return to the reality before October 7 . " <p> Although details of an emerging deal are being negotiated under tight secrecy , it is understood that it would involve a phased ceasefire that would see an initial cessation of hostilities for 60 days in exchange for the release of surviving hostages , including women , elderly people and those suffering illness . <p> Israel 's diaspora affairs minister , Amichai Chikli , told Army Radio " there 's a hierarchy , with the humanitarian cases in the first stage , and then the rest of the hostages " . <p> Reports in Arab media have said Hamas and other Palestinian militia appear to be open to a slower , phased end to the fighting with talks focused on the number of hostages to be released in any first phase . <p> Sticking points that torpedoed previous rounds of talks , including the presence of Israel troops in the so-called Philadelphi and Netzarim corridors inside Gaza , appear to have been sidelined for now , although a continuing issue is understood to be the ability of Palestinians in Gaza to return to their homes in the strip 's north . <p> In the past week , Trump has ramped up his direct engagement on the issue , despite not being sworn in as president until 20 January , sending his incoming special envoy for hostage affairs , Adam Boehler , who met Netanyahu on Monday evening . <p> Commenting on his telephone conversation with Netanyahu on Saturday , Trump said : " We had a very good talk . I 'll be very available on 20 January and we 'll see . As you know , I gave warning that if these hostages are n't back home by that date , all hell 's going to break out . " <p> Despite the encouraging noises coming from both sides , negotiations have repeatedly reached an impasse before amid accusations of bad faith . <p> However , the ceasefire with Hezbollah in Lebanon and the collapse of the Assad regime in Syria have created a new dynamic with a decimated Hamas isolated from any meaningful support in the rest of the region . <p> Israeli military strikes across the Gaza Strip killed at least 14 Palestinians on Tuesday , at least 10 of them in one house in Gaza City , medics said , as tanks pushed deeper towards the western area of Rafah in the south .
