<h> Sign up to The JC newsletter <h> Whatever we do , the media will not stop propaganda on Gaza <p> Sadly , the new report on Gaza casualty figures will not change the narrative <p> A new report by the Henry Jackson Society claims to have found significant errors in the Gaza health ministry 's casualty figures . ( Photo by YAHYA HASSOUNA/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> December 17 , 2024 11:02 <p> I mean no disrespect to Andrew Fox and the team of researchers behind a report published this week , entitled Questionable Counting : Analysing the death toll from the Hamas-run Ministry of Health in Gaza , when I say that there is nothing even remotely surprising in it . <p> Great respect , in fact : retired major Andrew Fox has produced a vital , compelling and necessary report that should be studied by every journalist and commentator writing or speaking about the Gaza war . <p> The substance of the report -- that the Hamas-run health ministry has deliberately misrepresented Gaza casualty figures to portray Israel as having targeted civilian populations -- may be old news to anyone who has come to the story without an axe to grind against Israel , but the report 's forensic analysis of every aspect of the figures makes it impossible for anyone to continue citing them in good faith . <p> But therein lies the problem . Because good faith , and a desire to be objective and report the facts rather than to proselytise for a cause , are in short supply when it comes to coverage of Israel . <p> More than that : with its use of clear , objective analysis the report exposes how we are in the midst of one of the worst journalistic scandals in memory . <p> To understand the scale of the scandal we need first to appreciate the scale of Hamas ' deception , and the ( at its most innocent ) willing credulousness of journalists in reporting Hamas ' lies by citing the Gaza Ministry of Health 's figures ( at the moment claiming that 44,000 have been killed by Israel ) as if they are somehow independent and reliable when , as JC readers will know , the Ministry of Health is entirely controlled by Hamas . <p> The report shows that some 17,000 of those who have been killed were , in fact , Hamas fighters . And of the stories examined by the team of researchers behind the report , just 3 per cent referenced the number of combatant deaths . Let that sink in : only 3 per cent of reports mentioned the number of terrorists killed , leaving the impression that Israel has either deliberately or indiscriminately killed 44,000 civilians . <p> As the report puts it : " The ministry of health , operating under Hamas , has systematically inflated the death toll by failing to distinguish between civilian and combatant deaths , over-reporting fatalities among women and children and even including individuals who died before the conflict began . " <p> In a normal year before the war around 5,000 people would die in Gaza from natural causes . Yet in the Ministry of Health 's figures not a single such death has been recorded during the war . <p> If Hamas is to be believed -- as it has by most of the world 's media -- not one person has died of natural causes in Gaza over the past year . <p> A team of international scholars examined 1,378 articles published between February 2024 and May 2024 by major English-language newspapers and media outlets , including the New York Times , Guardian , BBC , Reuters , and Associated Press . They found that 84 per cent of those publications made no distinction between combatant deaths and civilian deaths . <p> There are two explanations for this . Either the journalists were simply reckless and cavalier as to the truth and swallowed unquestioningly the Hamas-produced fake casualty figures whole ; or they were not so much reckless as complicit in reporting wholly unreliable , fake figures because to them Israel is , by definition , monstrous in its behaviour . In other words , these journalists have been acting not as seekers of truth but as propagandists in a cause -- that cause being to ensure that Israel is seen as the villain of the piece . <p> I have been a journalist for more than 30 years . I will let you into a secret : some of my fellow journalists are lazy . <p> If handed a story , especially a sexy story that will garner attention , they may not bother digging too hard . I am sure much of the reporting of Hamas ' figures is driven not by malice but by this laziness . But much of it , clearly , is indeed driven by malice . You do n't need me to name names . We all see , hear and read examples every day in which the hostility to Israel and the determination to portray Israel as a murderous , villainous state is palpable . <p> There is , rightly , much focus on the BBC 's appalling coverage -- understandable since it is our national broadcaster and we are forced to pay for it under threat of prison . But reporters for other broadcasters have come across as if they are being fed lines to take by a Hamas stooge . <p> This matters not just because the truth matters , and not just because journalism matters . It matters because this is about life and death , both in Gaza and Israel . <p> And here , too , as British Jews know all too well -- along with the rest of the diaspora -- the lies propagated about Israel and Gaza have a direct impact on our lives . In a rational world , this report would transform how Gaza is being reported . Facts would count . But we do not live in that world . And so on it goes ...
