<p> A new report by the Henry Jackson Society claims to have found significant errors in the Gaza health ministry 's casualty figures . ( Photo by YAHYA HASSOUNA/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> The Hamas-run health ministry has deliberately misrepresented Gaza casualty figures to portray Israel as having targeted civilian populations , according to a new report written by Major Andrew Fox for the Henry Jackson Society think tank . <p> The report shows that Hamas has repeatedly manipulated casualty data by over-reporting the number of women and children killed , including natural deaths in combat statistics and reclassifying men as women for what the study says are propaganda purposes . <p> The falsification of death figures has contributed to the widely reported narrative that Israel has specifically targeted innocent civilians , the study argues . <p> " After Israel launched its military response , media outlets around the world began to report on death tolls in Gaza , frequently citing numbers from the ' Gaza Ministry of Health ' as though it was a fully independent , unbiased source , " the report states . <p> " In reality , the Ministry of Health ( MoH ) is under the full control of Hamas . It was established by Hamas in 2007 after it took full control of the Gaza Strip following its violent clashes with the Fatah faction of the Palestinian Authority . Since then , Hamas has managed governmental functions in Gaza , including health care services through the MoH . Given that Hamas is a direct party to the conflict , this creates an obvious conflict of interest . " <p> To date , the Gaza ministry of health has estimated that more than 44,000 people have been killed since Israel launched its offensive in Gaza after the October 7 attacks and , based on Israeli and US military intelligence reports , the Henry Jackson Society found that roughly 17,000 of these were Hamas fighters . The study claims that this fact has been persistently overlooked in media reports . <p> " The ministry of health , operating under Hamas , has systematically inflated the death toll by failing to distinguish between civilian and combatant deaths , over-reporting fatalities among women and children and even including individuals who died before the conflict began . <p> " This has led to a narrative where the IDF are portrayed as disproportionately targeting civilians , while the actual numbers suggest a significant proportion of the dead are combatants , " the report states . <p> The fatality figures released by the Gaza ministry of health from February 2024 to May 2024 were analysed by a group of international scholars who examined 1,378 articles from major English-language newspapers and media outlets , including the New York Times , the Guardian , BBC , Reuters , and the Associated Press . Their findings revealed that over the four-month period , 84 per cent of those publications failed to make the critical distinction in total numbers between combatant deaths and civilian deaths . <p> The report also found numerous statistical discrepancies such as the inclusion of deaths due to natural causes on the list of conflict casualties . In a territory where roughly 5,000 people die from natural causes each year , " there are no reports of such over the last 12 months , nor is there any record of deaths from Hamas action or misfired rockets , " the report notes . <p> Other errors include adult fatalities being recorded as children , with a 22-year-old listed as a four-year-old and a 31-year-old listed as an infant . <p> " Such distortions inflate the number of child casualties , which is emotionally impactful and heavily emphasised in global reporting , " the report states . " These misrepresentations suggest a deliberate attempt to frame the conflict as disproportionately affecting children , undermining the credibility of the fatality data . <p> The analysis found that there is a disproportionate number of fighting-age men between 15-45 killed over the last 12 months , an age demographic which closely aligns with the expected profile of Hamas combatants , suggesting that the IDF has been targeting combatants and contradicting claims that civilians are being disproportionately targeted . <p> The report highlights the implications of such data distortion , stating : " International Humanitarian Law requires that warring parties take measures to minimise civilian harm , but the distortion of fatality data undermines efforts to assess compliance with these laws . The absence of credible data also hampers international responses , humanitarian aid efforts and peace negotiations . Without accurate and reliable figures , it becomes nearly impossible to understand the full scope of the conflict 's impact or to hold parties accountable for their actions . " <p> Shadow foreign secretary Priti Patel told the Telegraph : " The manipulation of events and facts on the ground throughout this conflict confirms that a terrorist organisation like Hamas will distort the truth to further their own aims . The media must be alert to this and report information and events taking place in a responsible and balanced way . <p> " War is a tragedy , but Israel has a right to defend itself against terrorists who are backed by the Iranian regime that also threatens our interests and efforts to bring peace and stability to the region . "
