<p> Loose Women presenter Nadia Sawalha has platformed conspiracy theories about the media 's " Zionist " agenda and claims that terrorists are " freedom fighters " , the JC can reveal . <p> The remarks emerged in an incendiary interview by Sawalha -- a panellist on the ITV talk show and previous Celebrity MasterChef winner -- with a pro-Palestine activist , which the TV host shared with her 555,000 Instagram followers in November . <p> The activist , Lizzie Greenwood , a former candidate for George Galloway 's far-left Workers Party , told Sawalha that " Palestinian activists get called terrorists and traitors " , adding that " freedom fighters in Palestine get called terrorists " . <p> Sawalha appeared to agree with the comments and praised Greenwood for embarking on an " incredible " and " extraordinary " hunger strike for the war 's Palestinian victims . <p> The TV presenter went on to question why Greenwood 's " Gaza fast " had received no media coverage . <p> Greenwood responded : " There is a very , very clear Zionist and UK government agenda in the UK media , which at the moment is the same thing because the UK government is so unashamedly Zionist and compromised . " <p> Sawalha , whose father is Jordanian-born British actor Nadim Sawalha , seemed to concur , saying : " Is it not unbelievable that it the hunger strike is not talked about in the media ? Maybe we could all have a little guess as to why that is . <p> " Even asking for a ceasefire has been weaponised , " Sawalha went on . <p> In another Instagram video , the outspoken ITV personality accused Israeli leaders of crying antisemitism when they are accused of crimes in Gaza : " If it all goes wrong you can just say everybody is being antisemitic . " <p> A spokesperson for Campaign Against Antisemitism ( CAA ) said the comment " downplayed antisemitism " . <p> The UK-based charity called on ITV to reconsider if Sawalha was an " appropriate figure " to appear on their flagship programme . <p> The TV personality has also claimed that the death toll in Gaza exceeds 200,000 and noted in a clip shared on October 7 2024 that Palestinian prisoners in Israel had experienced " 42 different tortures including r*pe and electric shocks " . <p> She refers to the Israel Defence Force ( IDF ) as the " IOF " , an acronym for " Israel Occupation Forces " that is used by anti-Israel activists . <p> In the rambling video with Sawalha , Greenwood went on to suggest that Benjamin Netanyahu timed military action in Gaza to coincide with Sir Keir Starmer 's premiership , saying : " It is like Netanyahu has waited for this Prime Minister to come along , and this is the right situation in America where they will not stop them . " Seeming to agree , Sawalha added : " Until there is no one left . " <p> Both women have called the prime minister a war criminal and suggested that the UK taxpayer is complicit in a Gaza genocide . Later in the conversation , Sawalha claimed : " Israeli politicians defended raping Palestinian prisoners " and suggested that US politicians had threatened to " invade the Hague " . <p> CAA said : " At a time when antisemitism is at unprecedented levels , it is disappointing that some people still deny its prevalence or claim that antisemitism allegations are used to silence criticism of Israel . Celebrities need to think carefully about what they put on their social media , and ITV should consider who are the most appropriate figures to appear on their flagship programmes . "
