<h> Sign up to The JC newsletter <h> On trial for corruption yet humiliating Israel 's enemies : The two faces of Bibi Netanyahu <p> Despite his flaws , has played an undeniable role in reshaping Israel <p> December 19 , 2024 16:28 <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has long captivated the Israeli electorate and the world . On one hand , he is one of the most embattled politicians around today , fending off repeated attempts to remove him through both political and legal tracks . He faces serious corruption charges and currently is meant to be spending several days a week in an underground courtroom in Tel Aviv , providing testimony in the trial against him . <p> But then there is the other Bibi , as he is known internationally . This Netanyahu is the leader who has appeared numerous times the cover of Time magazine and is one of the most recognisable politicians in the world . Under his leadership , Israel has risen from the ashes of October 7 to reshape the Middle East . <p> Had someone , for instance , told us in September 2023 that within a year Hamas would be decimated , Hezbollah 's entire top leadership , including the iconic Hassan Nasrallah , would be eliminated , Iran would be more vulnerable than ever and Bashar al-Assad 's regime in Syria would have collapsed , the likely response would have been disbelief . <p> Yet this is the reality in the Middle East today . While the events of October 7 remain a stain on Netanyahu and his government - his policy of containment regarding Gaza allowed Hamas to grow stronger - it is impossible to overlook the success he has orchestrated in securing Israel 's borders and reshaping the region . Once the hostages return , Israel will genuinely be able to claim victory in this war . <p> This dual identity has long been difficult for many Israelis to reconcile when it comes to their leader . How is it that Netanyahu can be so respected on the world stage , welcomed with red carpets in Washington DC , London , Moscow and beyond - while simultaneously standing trial for accepting too many cigars and bottles of champagne from his wealthy friends ? <p> But this is Netanyahu , for better and for worse . Over the years , some have referred to him as " Dr Bibi and Mr Netanyahu , " questioning which version of the prime minister they are dealing with : the one who prioritises the nation 's welfare or the one who focuses on his own political survival at the expense of the state ? <p> The answer , as it often is with complex political figures , is never straightforward . The reality is far more nuanced . Today there is little doubt that Netanyahu believes his premiership is the cornerstone of Israel 's safety . As a result , even when his decisions seem to prioritise his own survival over the national interest , in his mind - and in the minds of many of his supporters - he is doing what is best for Israel . <p> Consider , for example , the hostage deal that could have been reached earlier had Israel been willing to withdraw from Gaza sooner , a move that would have risked the collapse of the government due to opposition from Bezalel Smotrich and Itamar Ben-Gvir . Another case in point is the ongoing issue with the ultra-Orthodox community and their refusal to enlist in the IDF . <p> There is no one in Israel today who does n't understand the urgent need for more soldiers . With the increase in military operations and the need for a larger IDF presence along Israel 's borders , the army simply does not have the manpower to meet the demand . As a result , reservists who have already served longer than expected will be asked to continue serving one to two months a year . <p> In addition to the increased military burden , more than 800 soldiers have been killed since last October and over 13,000 more have been wounded . Yet despite the obvious manpower shortage , the government is on the verge of granting a blanket exemption to the approximately 50,000 Charedi men of draft age who currently refuse to serve in the IDF . Instead of incentivising the ultra-Orthodox to enlist , the Netanyahu government is getting ready to institutionalise their exemption , simply because they claim to be ultra-Orthodox . <p> Netanyahu knows the stakes . He knows Israel 's military needs and that the IDF is stretched thin . He knows that there are Charedi men who could and should serve , helping to fill the necessary gap . But he refuses to do what is right since it would risk the collapse of his government . If he were to push for compulsory enlistment of the ultra-Orthodox , the Charedi parties , United Torah Judaism and Shas , would likely bolt from the coalition , bringing the government down . <p> Here , once again , we see the complex balancing act Netanyahu maintains between political survival and national security . While his decisions often appear to be driven by personal and political calculations , there is also no question that , in his eyes , these choices are made with Israel 's future in mind . <p> As Israel navigates a new and volatile Middle East , it would be a mistake to look at Netanyahu through a single prism . Like all leaders , he too is a figure of contradictions and while we can and should criticise his actions , we must also recognise that his focus on Israel 's security is deeply rooted . <p> It is this paradox that will continue to define Netanyahu 's place in history as a leader who , despite his flaws , has played an undeniable role in reshaping Israel and the wider Middle East .
