<p> The Palestinian Football Association ( PFA ) has praised the Norwegian Football Federation after its president reportedly called on FIFA , football 's world governing body , to investigate Israel for humanitarian violations ahead of a qualifying match between Norway and Israel next year . <p> Following Saturday 's announcement of the forthcoming ties for the qualifying stage of the 2026 FIFA World Cup , which will see Israel and Norway go head-to-head on March 25 and October 11 , Lise Klaveness , president of the Norwegian Football Federation , said it was " difficult " to see her country paired to compete with Israel . <p> She said : " The draw is difficult for us , beyond the purely sporting aspect . None of us can remain indifferent to the disproportionate attacks that Israel has inflicted on the civilian population of Gaza over a long period of time . <p> " Israel is still part of UEFA competitions . We have to deal with that . We are following the situation closely with FIFA , UEFA , and the Norwegian authorities . " <p> Klaveness added that the NFF is advocating for FIFA to address sanctions against Israel and is actively involved in pushing Israel to be suspended from international sporting competitions . She noted that her statement was in line with the position of her government , which has called for sanctions against Israel on the international stage and imposed sanctions on Israeli settlers in the West Bank . In May , Norway became one of three European countries , including Ireland and Spain , to official recognise Palestinian statehood . <p> Despite a number of international news outlets reporting that the Norwegian national team would be boycotting the matches , no statement to that end has been made and the fate of the matches is yet to be seen . <p> The Palestinian Football Association has welcomed Klaveness 's " principled position " in " calling on FIFA to investigative Israel 's violations ahead of the World Cup qualifier . " <p> In a statement posted to the PFA website , the body expressed " its full appreciation for Norway 's recognition of the ongoing violations against Palestinian civilians and athletes , " and commended the president 's remarks as echoing " the sentiments of millions around the world who believe that FIFA and the international football community can not remain silent while grave breaches of human rights persist . " <p> The PFA charged the Israeli Football Association ( IFA ) with " systematically violating FIFA statues by tolerating racism , serving as a tool for Israeli annexation of occupied territory and encouraging the ongoing genocide in Gaza . " <p> The PFA has made repeated efforts to have FIFA and other football governing associations ban Israel from attending all international competitions . <p> Norway has been a harsh critic of Israel since the Israel-Hamas war began nearly 15 months ago , when the Palestinian terror group entered Israel and massacred more than 1,200 people and kidnapped more than 260 -- of whom about 100 are still held in captivity .
