<p> " Forgive me Italy , " Hamada Shaqoura captioned one of his recent videos , in which he constructed a version of a pizza with a flatbread and a pan , before gifting the creation to a delighted child . <p> Gaza 's leading , and perhaps only remaining , food blogger has learned to make a virtue of necessity through 14 months of war , in which agriculture has been decimated and commercial imports cut off , leaving much of the population reliant on intermittent aid supplies . <p> For Shaqoura , 33 , that means a daily struggle to source the ingredients to maintain his hugely popular video series , in which he serves up improvised recipes from ' Gaza tacos ' -- with rare canned meat -- to cinnamon rolls , to the deprived residents of refugee camps . Each of his videos on Instagram typically receives hundreds of thousands of views . <p> " Some ingredients may be available from food aid such as legumes and canned foods , but not on a regular basis , " he told The i Paper . " The lack of ingredients forces me to change the type of food , or look for alternatives to the missing ones . " <p> The quest for ingredients means scouring the sparse markets of southern Gaza , which offer unpredictable selections at inflated prices , as well as occasional prizes such as fresh produce and meat that Shaqoura has to be quick to secure . <p> The food blogger is among the 90 per cent of Gaza 's population that have been displaced at least once during the war . He was forced to evacuate with his pregnant wife , Lamis Shaqoura , from their home in Gaza City -- now destroyed -- to live with more than a dozen relatives in his uncle 's home in Khan Younis . The couple welcomed their first child , son Nizar , this year . <p> Shaqoura says it is the children of Gaza -- about half the population is under 18 -- that motivate him to keep pounding the rubble-strewn streets in search of material for recipes . <p> " The reaction of people and children when I present delicious dishes is the best thing about this work and it is what makes me continue despite all the circumstances and risks , " he said . <p> " The best recipes that the children liked are the meat tacos and burgers . I am thinking of making many meals using chicken and meat , but unfortunately they are not available due to the siege . " <p> Food deprivation is having dire effects . More than 19,000 children in Gaza have been hospitalised with malnutrition over the past four months , according to the UN , and just a handful of aid trucks have reached the northernmost provinces since an Israeli offensive that started in October . <p> Being away from his family for his work is a source of anxiety , with the knowledge that any part of Gaza can come under attack by Israeli jets and drones at any time . <p> Shaqoura with local children in Gaza ( Photo : Hamada Shaqoura/Facebook ) <p> Dozens of humanitarian and charity workers have been killed during the war , such as Mahmoud Almadhoun , head of the Gaza Soup Kitchen initiative , who was reportedly shot dead by an Israeli drone outside his home in northern Gaza earlier this month . <p> Many high-profile bloggers with large social media followings have also been killed during the war , such as Mohammad ' Medo ' Halimy , 20 , who was known for Tiktok and Instagram posts documenting wartime Gaza . <p> " The most difficult moments of war are when I have to leave the house and be away from my family for long hours , " said Shaqoura . " Every day under this aggression is a dangerous day . I try to maintain my safety and the safety of my family by staying away from some areas that are required to be evacuated , but there is no safety anywhere . " <p> Beyond shortages of ingredients , and the threat of Israeli bombs , the destruction of Gaza 's infrastructure also creates challenges for the blogger . He sometimes resorts to using wood fires when there is no gas or electricity to cook with . When communication networks are down , he posts videos from sites used by local journalists , where a minute-long clip can take hours to upload . <p> Shaqoura does not consider himself a journalist , although his work chronicles the devastation of his homeland and the deprivation of Gaza 's camps , but he acknowledges that his work is political and intended to send a message -- partly through his silence and unsmiling expression in videos , which sharply contrast with his bubbly pre-war output . <p> " I want to convey our suffering in Gaza and what we are living through now , through the culture of food and silence to address the whole world , " he said . <h> Read Next <p> Before the war , Shaqoura used to work in marketing and as a radio host as well as producing food videos . But he does not expect to change course even if a longed-for ceasefire finally materialises . <p> " We can not think about what comes after the war , all we think about now is how to survive , " he said . " But I certainly seek to continue this work ... the children and the people will need it even after the war . " <p> The blogger 's viral videos from wartime Gaza have earned him almost a million followers and praise from across the world , but the circumstances make his newfound popularity bittersweet . <p> " It is a good feeling , and I wish I could become famous all over the world , but not in light of our suffering , " he said .
