<p> The Houthis are already on the terror list of a number of countries - Reuters <p> Israel promised to " behead " the leaders of Houthi rebels as the terror organisation launched its latest ballistic missile at the country on Monday . <p> Rocket sirens went off in parts of the Negev desert and central Israel at 1.45am , forcing millions of Israelis to take cover in bomb shelters . The Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) said the missile was intercepted by the air-defence system " prior to crossing into Israeli territory " . <p> This marks the third time the Houthis launched ballistic missiles at Israel in the past week . Hezam al-Asad , a senior Houthi official , issued a statement shortly after saying the missile attacks on Israel will continue until the war in Gaza stops . <p> " Netanyahu will learn that his dreams of a new Middle East are nothing but a punishment for him and his imported entity , " Mr Asad tweeted . <p> Yisrael Katz , Israel 's defence minister , warned the terror group 's leaders they would be " beheaded just like we did to Haniyeh , Sinwar and Nasrallah in Tehran , Gaza and Lebanon -- we will do it in Hodeidah and Sana'a " . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> In saying this , Mr Katz became the first senior Israeli official to take public responsibility for the killing of Ishmail Haniyeh , the Hamas leader , in Tehran in July . <p> " We defeated Hamas , we triumphed over Hezbollah , we blinded Iran 's defence systems and hit their production capabilities , we toppled Assad 's regime in Syria , we struck hard at the axis of evil -- and we will also strike hard at the Houthi terror organisation in Yemen , which remains the last standing , " Mr Katz added . <p> Gideon Sa'ar , foreign minister , meanwhile instructed Israel 's diplomatic missions in Europe to work on getting the Houthis designated as a terrorist organisation in their respective countries . <p> Yahya Sarea , a Houthi military spokesman , claiming attacks on Israel during a rally in Yemen on Dec 20 - Khaled Abdullah/Reuters <p> The Houthis are already on the terror lists of the US , Saudi Arabia , Malaysia , the United Arab Emirates , Australia , Canada , New Zealand and Israel . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Mr Sa'ar said : " The Houthis pose a threat not only to Israel but also to the region and the entire world . The direct threat to the freedom of navigation in one of the world 's busiest shipping lanes is a challenge to the international community and world order . The first and most basic thing to do is to designate them as a terrorist organisation . " <p> The Houthis started launching cruise missiles at Israel on Oct 19 last year in " solidarity " with Palestinians . Since then , the terror group has launched over 200 missiles and 170 drones , killing one Israeli civilian in Tel Aviv on July 19 this year . <p> In response , Israel has launched wide-scale air strikes against the Houthis 's infrastructure and ports . <h> Latest stories <p> Israel 's defense minister has confirmed that Israel assassinated Hamas ' top leader last summer and is threatening to take similar action against the leadership of the Houthi rebel group in Yemen . The comments by Israel Katz appeared to mark the first time that Israel has acknowledged killing Ismail Haniyeh , who died in an explosion in Iran in July . Israel was widely believed to be behind the blast and leaders have previously hinted at its involvement . <p> Around half of accident and emergency departments , polled by the Royal College of Emergency Medicine ( RCEM ) , have said they are " full to bursting " this Christmas . The vice-president of the RCEM , Dr Ian Higginson , told Sky News ' Gareth Barlow on Christmas Eve that the situation for the NHS in the UK is " pretty grim " at the moment . The group , representing emergency doctors , put a call out to senior managers on Friday night . <p> It is especially surprising that one of the first federal agencies to come under scrutiny from the incoming administration is one that has returned billions of dollars to many of the same consumers who were counting on leaders in Washington to look out for their wallets . <p> Donald Trump says that when he takes power next month he will direct the US Justice Department to " vigorously pursue " the death penalty . The US president-elect , 78 , said he would do so to protect Americans from what he called " violent rapists , murderers and monsters " . Mr Trump was responding to President Joe Biden 's decision to commute the sentences of almost all federal inmates on death row - whom Mr Trump called " 37 of the worst killers in our country " .
