<p> A Palestinian Israeli peace activist has paid tribute to Limmud for inviting him to speak at the festival and giving him " the most incredible experience I have had in a long time " . <p> Ibrahim Abu Ahmad , who is from the north of Israel , spoke to packed-out rooms eight times about how his dual identity -- a Palestinian with Israeli citizenship - was " the key to solving the Palestinian problem " and of his vision for peace in the region . <p> Giving his final talk during the Limmud gala on Sunday night , he said : " Thank you for your love , passion and compassion . I was so grateful to be here and wish the world could see how beautiful this engagement can be . <p> " The only way we can move forward is by listening to each other and sharing our narratives ... I hope that next time I am here , we 're not talking about how we can solve the conflict , but about how our future can be together . " <p> Speaking earlier in the festival at an event hosted by Yachad , he said : " I am from a very special community , which has been treated so long as a by-product of the conflict rather than as an integral part of the conflict or the solution . <p> " But my community has two layers . We are part of the Palestinian people and part of Israeli society since its origins of 1948 . We speak both languages . We are a door to both people , their reality , pain and aspirations . " <p> His great-grandfather been killed in the 1948 war and his great-grandmother had tried to escape to Lebanon but had ended up living in Bethlehem in the West Bank , where his grandmother was born . The family later moved to an Arab city in the north of Israel . <p> " My mother raised me as a humanist . She tried to shield me from the reality and did n't talk about the conflict . " <p> While Arab Israelis make up 21 per cent of the Israeli population , Ibrahim said that they lived " parallel lives " with the Jewish population . " We do n't meet each other as we go to separate schools , so the first time we encounter one another properly is after the age of 18 . So you mostly meet the politics before the people . " <p> Ibrahim 's experience growing up had been vastly different as his cousins were from the only Arab family living in a Jewish community , so Ibrahim had got to know their Jewish friends . " I played with Jewish kids , learnt Hebrew and watched Israeli TV . " <p> During the second intifada , when he was nine years old , he recalled that three Arab Israelis living in his street had been shot and killed . <p> " I remember going to the shopping arcade and saw the fear and hatred in people 's eyes , and I asked my mum : ' Why was I born Arab ? Why was I born in a place where I am different ? ' " <p> When the terrorist attacks happened on October 7 , he called both his Arab and Jewish friends . He found out that six of his friends had been killed at the Nova festival . <p> Living in Herzliya at the time , Ibrahim said : " The day after , I was afraid with my neighbour , and of my neighbour . I did n't know if someone would look at me with a look of fear or hate . All of us Palestinian Israelis were saying : ' We ca n't stay here right now . ' " <p> At the same time , he was " afraid for the peoplehood across the wall in Gaza . I was calling every embassy to try to get people out . " <p> October 7 and the ensuing war motivated him , together with fellow Palestinian Israeli Amira Mohammed to launch a podcast -- Unapologetic -- the Third Narrative . " It 's about who we are and about our reality . We bring Israelis and Palestinians to the podcast and show the complexity and the nuance of the situation , " said Ibrahim , who also works with educational organisation Solutions Not Sides . <p> Hitting out at the " world , which has taken ownership of what it is to be Palestinian or Israeli " , he said : " This is n't a football match . As Palestinians , we need to decide what our future looks like and not let the rest of the world decide for us . " <p> Asked what his feelings were about Hamas , he said : " There are people who cherish death , but there are so many of us who cherish life . We want to live , we want to travel ; we want to see the world . Both people deserve to live in dignity and peace . "
