<h> This is the last article you can read this month <h> You can read more article this month <h> You can read more articles this month <h> Sorry your limit is up for this month <h> Mary of Gazaby Suhail Khoury ? ? ? ? ? <p> " PEACE on Earth is not for us . Not for my son , not for yours . Mary said to Mary , " these are the heartbreaking words which begin the cantata Mary of Gaza by Suhail Khoury , which was shared by the Edward Said National Conservatory of Music on its public channels on Christmas Eve , 2024 . <p> Performed by Ibrahim Nasrallah ( Narrator ) , the Palestine Youth Orchestra , the Amaan Choir , the Edward Said National Conservatory of Music Choir and Lamaar Elias conducting the 20-minute work of poetry sung by the chorus or narrated captures the sadness , grief and frustration at the situation the Palestinian people find themselves in during this particularly brutal conflict . <p> The music is equally fraught with this intensity , the evocations of Palestinian traditional music alongside the musical austerity that remind one of the darker cantatas by JS Bach , and the constant recapitulations of " Peace on Earth is not for us " strikes emotionally deeper and deeper into the heart . <p> The is cantata is heavily preoccupied by death and war , the music does not depict the horrendous destruction , however much like Faure 's Requiem . Its surreal calm and modesty is what makes it more devastating . <p> Why go deeper and deeper into the detail of the various atrocities of this conflict , when you can simply reiterate : " Peace on Earth is not for us . " <p> But the work is not nihilistic -- on the contrary , this is where the revolutionary quality of this piece rings aloud . <p> Across the 20th century and into this one , the valid question remains : what kind of music transmits best political ideas , either to evoke political emotion or to inspire people to revolution ? <p> A wealth of music of great variety has been produced , however , it has far too often relied on aesthetic qualities alone . The reliance on the " true " or " correct " kind of music blinds composers to where a political quality can be found . <p> Christopher Caudwell in his Studies in a Dying Culture perfectly encapsulated this , when describing the work of William Shakespeare . The quality and skill of an artist , regardless of medium , is always important but the final ingredient , which can make an artist truly revolutionary , is the ability to capture the essence of the rising class . <p> In Shakespeare , it was the growing revolutionary energy which would eventually lead to the overthrow of the monarchy after the civil war . <p> In the case of Beethoven , it was the ability to capture the spirit of the coming revolts in the 19th century , and in Mary of Gaza , Suhail Khoury captures succinctly the basic but profound desire for a genuine and lasting peace in Palestine . <p> The lines of the finale make it impressively clear : " O God , peace on this earth will be mine . Mine , then yours ... I will sing in the name of twenty thousand , forty thousand , risen on this land of ours . Peace on this earth was ours before them and peace on this earth will be ours after them . " <p> Many comparisons come to mind when , during many moments of great strife , other composers found ways to capture such feelings and fashion them into a radical voice of defiance . <p> Mikis Theodorakis 's setting of Pablo Neruda 's Canto General , Hanns Eisler 's Deutsche Sinfonie , Elizabeth Maconchy 's cheeky little song The Shark and the Whale all captured these feelings . However , it is Shostakovich 's Leningrad Symphony which was written during the Nazi siege of Leningrad . <p> These works written at a time when blood was spilt and the days were filled with darkness and destruction . To give riposte to such times with music that is defiant , one which shows that despite the terror that is happening -- and more of which may still come -- it is to show the people will remain resilient and can , in the end , win . <p> This enduring spirit has been a remarkable quality of the Palestinian people for generations , and every Palestinian I have met is imbued with this profound positive energy . <p> Mary of Gaza will stick with me for a long time . And I strongly urge everyone to listen to it . And despite the darkness of days facing Palestinians , aided by the hypocrisy of Western political leaders , it is reassuring to know that while Palestinians can still make music like this they will , eventually , find that peace on this earth is theirs too .
