<p> Two children held hostage in Gaza after the October 7 Hamas attack were found to have burn marks after they returned to Israel , with one saying it was the result of deliberate branding . <p> The shocking detail is contained in a report on the abuse and deprivation suffering by hostages , which is due to be submitted this week by Israel 's Ministry of Health to the United Nations ' special rapporteur on torture and other cruel , inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment , Alice J Edwards . <p> Two minors were forced to perform sexual acts on one another and sexually abused by their captors , the Times of Israel reported -- a detail , it said , was contained in the Hebrew version of the report but not its English edition . <p> Israel compiled the information from hostages exchanged in a deal with Hamas a year ago or subsequently rescued from captivity . <p> According to the English language report , two children reported that " they were held bound and were beaten throughout their captivity " . <p> Two young children " had burn marks on their lower limbs . One child stated that the burns were the result of a deliberate branding with a heated object , " the Ministry of Health report stated . <p> " Women , men , and children who returned from captivity reported that they endured severe physical and sexual abuse , such as beatings , isolation , deprivation of food and water , branding , hair-pulling , and sexual assault , " it said . " Additionally , some of them reported that the captors sexually assaulted them or forced them to undress . " <p> Some hostages were " denied medical treatment for acute injuries caused during October 7 and subsequently , in addition to for untreated chronic conditions . Fractures , shrapnel wounds , and burns were treated inadequately , leading to complications which required additional surgeries , that could have been prevented with proper care . " <p> In one case , it said , a hostage died from untreated medical complications . <p> Half of the returned hostages described " being deliberately starved during their captivity . They were given a poor diet , which often led to hunger that worsened over time . " <p> But before their release , their captors tried to improve their appearance and weight by giving them extra food . <p> The poor quality of food and water , " combined with unsanitary conditions , led to increased morbidity among the hostages , " the report said . <p> " Solitary confinement , poor sanitation , severe medical neglect , lack of sleep , starvation , sexual abuse , violence , threats , and brainwashing through media designed to break their spirit and make them submissive . " <p> Some endured " beatings , humiliation , and verbal , physical , and sexual violence " while being transported from Israel to Gaza . <p> Some witnessed the killing of other captives , " further deepening their sense of helplessness and hopelessness " . <p> One woman " described being sexually assaulted at gunpoint by a Hamas terrorist . On several occasions , captors forced women of all ages to undress while others , including the captors , watched . <p> " Some women reported that the captors sexually assaulted them . In addition , some women reported that they were tied to beds while their captors stared at them . " <p> Men endured " continuous starvation , beatings , burns with galvanised iron ( branding ) , hair-pulling , confinement in closed rooms with a limited amount of food and water , being held in isolation with hands and feet tied , and being denied access to the bathroom , which forced them to defecate on themselves . " <p> Documenting the impact of their experiences in Gaza , the report said that some returnees had " paranoid anxieties , fearing retaliation against their loved ones still in captivity if they spoke about their experiences . " The inability to share their trauma made it harder for them to process it .
