<p> Phase I of the Ruwanwella Water Supply Project , an initiative made possible through the financial assistance of the Korea Exim Bank 's Economic Development Cooperation Fund ( EDCF ) and the technical expertise of Kolon Global Corporation was completed and handed over to the public on May 28 . The project provides access to safe , treated drinking water to ... <p> While Palestinians are being dehumanised and eliminated in Israel 's genocidal war in Gaza , one aspect that receives less attention is objective narration . The war certainly did not begin on October 7 , 2023 , despite the agenda-driven Western and Israeli-friendly media repeatedly parroting this claim to shape public perception . With the Western media twisting the Palestinian narration , ... <p> Past Shepherdians of Kotahena rally round the chapel Begun in the year 1869 , Good Shepherd Convent , Kotahena is one of the oldest premier girls ' schools in the country and , over the decades , thousands of girls have passed through her portals . The reverend sisters and the chapel have been the heart and soul of the school . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been elected as the Abbot General ( Superior General ) of the Sylvestro Benedictine Congregation . He becomes the 119th successor of St Sylvester Guzzolini , Abbot , the founder of the monastic order . Born on January 13 , 1972 , he took his first vows of the monastic order on August 15 , 1992 , ... <p> A mass and memorial service were held at St. Benedict 's College hall on May 23 to celebrate the life of the veteran journalist and social justice activist , the late Louis Benedict . Fr . Noel Dias and Fr . Lasantha de Abrew conducted the service , accompanied by the college choir . Mr. Benedict 's long-time friend and journalistic colleague , Ameen ... <p> Each year around May 19 , I can not help musing about the events that took place in our country sixteen years ago . On that fateful day of May 19 in 2009 , Sri Lanka 's armed forces finally defeated the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam . In the process they eliminated not only the LTTE 's supreme leader Velupillai Prabhakaran ...
