<p> Attacks:There are no safe places for the militarily-dominated population in Gaza , who find themselves subjected to airstrikes and other missile attackson buildings , homes and many essentialfacilities , as well as constant gunfire and invasions by Israeli forces.The Israeli Navy continues to fire missiles , targeting facilities and buildings along the entire Gaza shoreline . <p> Victims:58more people have been killedwithin the past 48 hours , bringing the total number killed in Gaza since 7 Octoberto at least45,317 . Another 86have been wounded , bringing that total to 107,713 . The daily average number of men , women and children killed in Gaza is at least 102and , thatof those injured , is nowmore than243 . <h> UN relief chief calls on international community to " break the cycle of violence " in Gaza <p> I have spent the past week in the Middle East , meeting UN colleagues , partners , authorities and communities in Damascus , Homs , Aleppo , Idlib , Ankara , Beirut , Nabatieh and Amman . As I conclude this trip -- my first to the region as Humanitarian Chief -- I have also been meeting our humanitarian teams in the Occupied Palestinian Territory . <p> In January 2024 , the International Court of Justice issued the first set of provisional orders , in the case on the application of the Genocide Convention in the Gaza Strip . Less than a year later , the sustained intensity of violence means that there is nowhere that civilians in Gaza are safe . Schools , hospitals and civilian infrastructure have been reduced to rubble . <p> North Gaza has been under a near-total siege for more than two months , raising the spectre of famine . South Gaza is extremely overcrowded , creating horrific living conditions and even greater humanitarian needs as winter sets in . Across Gaza , Israeli airstrikes on densely populated areas continue , including on areas where Israeli forces have ordered people to move , causing destruction , displacement and death . <p> We deal with tough places to deliver humanitarian support . But Gaza is currently the most dangerous , in a year when more humanitarians have been killed than any on record . As a result , despite the massive humanitarian needs , it has become almost impossible to deliver even a fraction of the aid that is so urgently required . The Israeli authorities continue to deny us meaningful access -- over 100 requests to access North Gaza denied since 6 October . We are also now seeing the breakdown of law and order and the systematic armed looting of our supplies by local gangs . <p> Meanwhile , in the West Bank the situation continues to deteriorate , and the death toll is the highest we have recorded . In the past year , Israeli military operations resulted in the destruction of essential infrastructure such as roads and water networks , especially in refugee camps from which families have been displaced . Rising settler violence and home demolitions have resulted in displacement and growing needs . Movement restrictions are impeding people 's livelihoods and access to essential services -- especially healthcare . <p> In the face of these challenges , the UN and humanitarian community continue to try to stay and deliver , against mounting odds . We help survivors , and continue to seek practical humanitarian solutions . I call on the international community to defend international humanitarian law , demand protection of all civilians , insist that Hamas release all hostages , defend UNRWA 's vital work , and break the cycle of violence . <p> I pay tribute to the humanitarians working to save the lives of civilians in these conditions . <p> Since midnight on 07 October 2023 , Occupation forces have been imposing a complete closure around the whole of the West Bank , **26;1412;TOOLONG even permit -- holders ) from entering both the city of Jerusalem as well as Israel , otherwise than for especially -- negotiated exceptions . Permanent military checkpoints impose severe travel restrictions within the Occupied West Bank . <p> Israeli Army attack -- agricultural sabotage : Jerusalem -- 23:50 -- 02:00 , Israeli Occupation forces , firing live ammunition and stun grenades , stormed the Qalandiya refugee camp as well as the town of Kafr Aqab , invading homes and wounding three residents , one of whom is named Ahmed Muhammad Mahmoud Washah . <p> Home invasions and demolition : Jerusalem -- Israeli forces demolished two homes in the village of Beit Safafa , to make way for building a road . <p> Home invasion and forced personal demolition : Jerusalem -- the Israeli Occupation forced a resident , Jalal Al-Atrash , to destroy his home in Sur Baher -- or otherwise be forced to pay an extortionate sum to the Israeli Occupation demolition squads , who would be sent in to do it . <p> Home invasions:Nablus -- 17:30 -- 06:05 , Israeli forces raided the village of Jalloud and invaded two houses . <p> Home invasion and surveillance : Salfit -- 09:55 -- 12:15 , the Israeli Army raided Salfit , invading a home and checking its surveillance -- camera recordings . <p> Occupation settler land-grab:Tubas -- 17:40 , Israeli Occupation settlers began establishing a settlement outpostin the Qa'oun area , west of the North Jordan Valley Bardala village , bringing in a water tanker , fodder , bales of straw and around 30 -- head of cattle . <p> Leslie Bravery is a Londoner with vivid World War Two memories of the Nazi blitz on his home town . In 1947/1948 His father explained to him what was happening to the Palestinians thus : " Any ideology or political movement that creates refugees in the process of realising its ambitions must be inhuman and should be opposed and condemned as unacceptable . " What followed confirmed this assessment of the Zionist entity a hundredfold . Now a retired flamenco guitarist , with a lifelong interest in the tragedy of what happened to the Palestinian people , he tries to publicise their plight . Because the daily injustices they suffer barely get a mention in the mainstream news media , Leslie edits/compiles a daily newsletter , In Occupied Palestine , for the Palestine Human Rights Campaign . These days , to preserve his sanity , he enjoys taking part in a drama group whenever possible !
