<h> 14 more Israeli hostages likely to be freed by Hamas on Saturday <p> PTI Updated : November 25 , 2023 17:56 IST <p> Jerusalem , Nov 25 ( PTI ) A second group of 14 Israeli hostages , mostly children , are expected to be freed by Hamas militants on Saturday after they were abducted during the horrific onslaught on the country on October 7 . The Israeli Prime Minister 's Office confirmed that it received the names on Friday night of the people to be released on Saturday , the second day of the exchange deal . The first exchange of 13 Israelis taken hostages for 39 Palestinian prisoners concluded successfully on Friday evening evoking mixed reactions on both sides . It is expected that 14 Israelis will be released later on Saturday . The Israel Prison Service said that 42 Palestinian prisoners are to be released as part of the agreement between Israel and Hamas , three prisoners for each Israeli that it let go . In Israel , people expressed satisfaction at the return of some of their relatives but concerns over those still in captivity . There are also those who oppose the whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the hostages , and not to give the enemy respite to reorganise itself . Islamist Hamas , which has ruled the Gaza Strip since 2007 , led a deadly attack on Israel on October 7 killing about 1,200 people and taking around 240 hostage prompting Israel to declare a full-fledged war in Gaza which has seen massive destruction in the choked coastal Strip and loss of more than 14,000 lives as per the Gaza Health ministry . Israel has released a list of 300 Palestinian prisoners that can be set free on the basis of the 1:3 exchange method , meaning three Palestinian prisoners will be released for every Israeli hostage coming out of captivity . This has set anxiety and expectations in the related Palestinian families who see a possibility of their family member coming out but also uncertainty given that it is based on the number of hostages that get released . The deal brokered by Qatar , Egypt and the United States leaves room for extending the " pause in fighting " with Israel agreeing to extend it by an extra day for every ten captives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hostages out of the 50 agreed for release are likely to come out in batches of 12 on Sunday and Monday . The " pause in fighting " or ' temporary ceasefire ' went into effect on Friday morning and 7 AM . According to local media reports , eight of the 13 hostages to be released on Saturday will be children . Only four of the 13 Israelis released on Friday were children . After reviewing the list , Israeli security officials notified the hostages ' families , the PMO said . Israeli authorities had notified both the families of the hostages being released Friday as well as those who were not on the first list . As part of a separate deal , 11 foreign nationals , including 10 Thai nationals and a Filipino , were released by Hamas on Friday . <p> ( This story has not been edited by THE WEEK and is auto-generated from PTI ) @ @ Advance booking opens for Ranbir Kapoor 's ' Animal ' <p> PTI Updated : November 25 , 2023 18:26 IST <p> Mumbai , Nov 25 ( PTI ) Production house T-Series on Saturday opened the advance booking for " Animal " , starring Ranbir Kapoor , ahead of its December 1 release . The pan-India film , directed by Sandeep Reddy Vanga of " Kabir Singh " fame , also stars Anil Kapoor , Bobby Deol , Rashmika Mandanna and Triptii Dimri. " #Animal Advance bookings open now , " T-Series posted on X. Produced by Bhushan Kumar and Krishan Kumar 's T-Series , Murad Khetani 's Cine1 Studios and Pranay Reddy Vanga 's Bhadrakali Pictures , the film will release theatrically in Hindi , Telugu , Tamil , Kannada , and Malayalam . The first trailer of the movie was recently launched by the makers . It showcases a violent world set against the backdrop of a troubled relationship between Ranbir 's Arjun Singh and his father Balbir Singh , played by Anil Kapoor . <p> ( This story has not been edited by THE WEEK and is auto-generated from PTI )
