<h> India welcomes release of Israeli hostages by Hamas , calls for immediate , unconditional release of those remaining <p> UNITED NATIONS , Nov 29 : India has welcomed the release of Israeli hostages by Hamas and called for the immediate and unconditional release of those still held in captivity by the militant group , asserting that there can be no justifications for terrorism and hostage-taking . Last week , an agreement was reached by Israel and Hamas , with the mediation of Qatar supported by Egypt and the United States , to release Israeli and other foreign nationals taken as hostages by Hamas during the October 7 attacks . About 1,200 people were killed in the attack and 240 Israelis and other nationals were taken hostage by Hamas . So far , over 60 Israeli and foreign nationals have been released by Hamas in five groups and Israel has in return freed about 150 Palestinian prisoners . " We are gathered today at a time when the security situation in the Middle East is deteriorating due to the ongoing Israel-Hamas conflict , with large-scale loss of civilian lives , especially women and children and an alarming humanitarian crisis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ condemned the death of civilians , " India 's Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador Ruchira Kamboj said on Tuesday . In her remarks to the UN General Assembly plenary meeting on ' Question of Palestine and the Situation in the Middle East ' , Kamboj said that in addressing this humanitarian crisis , it is necessary for all parties to display utmost responsibility . " We are aware that the immediate trigger was the terror attacks in Israel on October 7 , which were shocking and deserve our unequivocal condemnation . There can be no justification for terrorism and hostage-taking , " she said . Kamboj said India welcomes the news of the release of the hostages , and also calls for the immediate and unconditional release of the remaining hostages , underlining that the country 's thoughts are with those who have been taken as hostages . " India has a zero-tolerance approach to terrorism . We also believe that there is a universal obligation to observe international humanitarian law , " she said . UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has welcomed the release of hostages and renewed his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . During a press conference on Tuesday , Guterres said the truce in the conflict was a step in the right direction and a " symbol of hope . But it does n't solve the key problems we face . That is why we have been insisting on the need for a humanitarian ceasefire , leading to the unconditional and the immediate release of all hostages and to the possibility to have effective humanitarian aid to all people in Gaza , wherever they live . " Kamboj said that India welcomes all efforts by the international community that would lead to a de-escalation and delivery of humanitarian assistance to the people of Palestine . Kamboj further termed the humanitarian pauses in the Israel-Hamas conflict as a " welcome step " to ensure the timely and continuous delivery of humanitarian aid . India has sent 70 tonnes of humanitarian goods including 16.5 tonnes of medicines and medical supplies . Since a humanitarian pause in the conflict went into effect on November 24 , the United Nations has scaled up the entry of aid into Gaza and sent aid to some northern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Guterres has noted that this aid barely registers against the huge needs of 1.7 million displaced people . " The humanitarian catastrophe in Gaza is getting worse by the day , " a statement issued by his spokesperson has said . Kamboj told the plenary meeting that since the start of the conflict , Prime Minister Narendra Modi and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar have been in close contact with leaders of the region and beyond , where they have emphasised a consistent message " that it is important to prevent escalation , ensure continued delivery of humanitarian aid and work towards an early restoration of peace and stability . " She said that along with restraint , the Indian leaders have also emphasised a peaceful resolution of the conflict through dialogue and diplomacy . As the International Day of Solidarity with the Palestinian People is marked on November 29 , Kamboj reaffirmed India 's long-standing relationship with the Palestinian people , based on deep-rooted historical and people-to-people ties , and Delhi 's consistent support to the people of Palestine in their endeavour for statehood , peace and prosperity . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ creating conditions necessary for peace and the restarting of direct negotiations between the parties , including through eschewing violence and de-escalation . " India has always supported a negotiated two-state solution to the Israel-Palestine issue leading to the establishment of a sovereign , independent and viable State of Palestine living within secure and recognised borders , side-by-side in peace with Israel , " she said , reaffirming India 's firm commitment to achieving a just , peaceful and lasting solution to the Israel-Palestine issue . " We firmly believe that only a two-state solution , achieved through direct and meaningful negotiations between both sides on final status issues , will deliver an enduring peace that the people of Israel and Palestine desire and deserve , " she said . Kamboj reiterated India 's continued support to the Palestinian people through the bilateral development partnership which covers a wide range of sectors including health , education , women 's empowerment , entrepreneurship and information technology , and said Delhi will also continue to send humanitarian assistance to the people of Palestine . The UN Chief has stressed that the dialogue that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full humanitarian ceasefire , for the benefit of the people of Gaza , Israel and the wider region . He has urged all States to use their influence to end the " tragic conflict " and support " irreversible " steps towards the only sustainable future for the region : a two-state solution , with Israel and Palestine living side by side , in peace and security . ( PTI )
