<h> Elon Musk visits Israel to meet top leaders as accusations of antisemitism on X grow <p> JERUSALEM , Nov 27 : Elon Musk , who 's been under fire over accusations of antisemitism flourishing on his social media platform X , paid a visit Monday to Israel , where he toured a kibbutz that was attacked last month by Hamas militants and was set to meet with top leaders . The billionaire and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu toured the Kfar Azza kibbutz , a rural village that Hamas militants stormed on Oct 7 in a deadly assault that launched the war . Musk , wearing a protective vest and escorted by a phalanx of security personnel as rain fell , used his phone to take photos or videos of the devastation , according to video released by Netanyahu 's office . The Tesla CEO and prime minister visited the homes of some victims , including the family of Abigail Edan , a 4-year-old girl with dual Israeli-US citizenship who was held hostage by Hamas after her parents were killed . She was released Sunday in the latest round of exchanges during a cease-fire in Gaza that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to see the scene of the massacre , " Musk later said in an X Spaces conversation with Netanyahu . Musk said he was troubled by video and photos that the prime minister showed him of the killings of civilians , including children . They spoke broadly about the conflict , the protests it has generated , Hamas , the Middle East and more but did not touch on antisemitism online . Netanyahu said he hoped Musk would be involved in building a better future , to which the billionaire replied , " I 'd love to help . " Musk also was due to meet Israeli President Isaac Herzog and Benny Gantz , a former defence minister who 's now part of a special war Cabinet . Government spokesperson Eylon Levy declined to say whether Musk was invited or came on his own . X , formerly known as Twitter , did not respond to a request for comment . Israel 's communications minister , Shlomo Karhi , tweeted earlier Monday about a deal that his ministry had reached with Musk 's Starlink satellite internet company . " As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can only be operated in Israel with the approval of the Israeli Ministry of Communications , including the Gaza Strip , " Karhi wrote , without providing further details . Musk has faced accusations from the Anti-Defamation League , a prominent Jewish civil rights organisation , and others of tolerating antisemitic messages on the platform since purchasing it last year , and the content on X has gained increased scrutiny since the war between Israel and Hamas began . A slew of big brands , including Disney and IBM , decided to stop advertising on the platform after a report by liberal advocacy group Media Matters said ads were appearing alongside pro-Nazi content and white nationalist posts . It came the same week Musk endorsed an antisemitic conspiracy theory that drew outcry , including from the White House . Musk responded on X this month to a user who accused Jews of hating white people and professing indifference to antisemitism by posting , " You have said the actual truth . " X has since sued Media Matters , saying the Washington-based nonprofit manufactured the report to " drive advertisers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's visit is not the first time Musk and Netanyahu have met . Netanyahu came to California in September , telling the Tesla CEO that he hopes Musk can find a way to roll back antisemitism and other forms of hatred within the limits of the First Amendment . ( PTI )
