<h> Gaza 's welcome humanitarian pause <p> It was a welcome move by Prime Minister Netanyahu to agree to a four-day pause in the fighting so as to get in exchange some of the hostages captured from Israel by Hamas on October 7 . Three of his Cabinet colleagues disagreed , and it may be argued that much of the problems that Israel is facing is the consequence of the inflexible " Single State " solution that the three evidently espouse . A stance that would deny Palestinians the right to their own state , living peacefully side by side with Israel . There are of course Palestinians who also believe in a " Single State " solution , except that their view is that it is Israel that ought not to exist . Hamas has carried such logic to an extreme not seen since the 1940s in parts of Europe , that not just Israel but the Jewish people as such have no right to exist . Memories return of Kashmir in the early 1990s , when a peaceful community , the Kashmiri Pandits , were subjected to cruel persecutions so as to get them to leave their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ descend on such an atrocity that has only been lifting during the past few years . Histories need to be truthfully told , in case past horrors are to be avoided in the future . It is unfortunate that so many efforts to convey such truth , including cinematically , have been treated with derision by those who appear to be ignorant of the happenings of the early 1990s in Kashmir . Those who used to visit the Valley during that period saw for themselves how a small group of fanatics indulging in ethnic cleansing terrorised the state to such an extent that very soon , several within the majority community in the Valley turned against them , such that in the final years of that decade , much of the fighting going on in that beautiful part of India was between fanatics ( many from outside Kashmir ) who had been sent or inspired by GHQ Rawalpindi and Kashmiri Muslims , both Shia and Sunni , who wanted them out of what was in the past considered a paradise . Only in recent years has Kashmir once again become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Union Territory in large numbers.What is needed is for Palestine and Israel to enter into an era of peace , with both existing in peace with each other , as was envisaged by the 1948 settlement that established two separate states , including the State of Israel . After what took place in Europe during the Hitler era , and in a less deadly way for more than a thousand years , the Jewish people have the right of return to their ancient homeland , just as the Palestinians have the right to have a country that is independent , and where the government has the authority and the freedom needed to make Palestine as prosperous as the UAE or Qatar are . In exchange , the Palestinian Authority needs to ensure that violence against Israel by Palestinian " Single State " proponents is held in check . By now , it ought to be evident to every Palestinian that recourse to force has invariably resulted in a diminution of the territory administered by the PA . At the same time , Israel needs to ensure that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West Bank needs to be reversed . Just as he ignored the hardliners in the Cabinet and went ahead with the implementation of a humanitarian pause designed to exchange prisoners from both sides , Prime Minister Netanyahu needs to call out such settlers and ensure their return . Self-respect is important , and that of the Palestinian Authority needs to be safeguarded by Israel for its own security . Violence begets violence , as Hamas now knows to its cost . Removing the military wing of Hamas is essential in restoring peace to Gaza , and this work needs to continue together with looking after the needs of the civilian population of the strip . Should Netanyahu drag his feet on such a change in attitude , it will only be a matter of time before a terror organisation as toxic as Hamas comes up in both Gaza and the West Bank . Mutual respect for each other is essential for both Palestine and Israel.MDN
