<h> Israel and its allies <p> US President Joe Biden ( L ) , sits with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , at the start of the Israeli war cabinet meeting , in Tel Aviv on October 18 , 2023. -- AFP <p> US President Joe Biden landed in Tel Aviv on Wednesday , despite what some naively thought may be at least a delayed trip given that it had only been hours to Israel 's terrorist airstrike on a hospital in Gaza -- an attack that led to at least 500 killed and many injured . A hug , a press talk , and a happy acceptance of the Israeli spin on Tuesday 's hospital bombing are the key takeaways from Biden 's Tel Aviv visit , affirming that the US remains firmly in Team Israel . The American president has backed Israel 's bizarre allegation that it was the Islamic Jihad that attacked the hospital -- a suggestion so odd that even on face value one is at a loss for words . Countless fact checks have already appeared on social media , countering Israel 's claims . But the American president will not have any of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seen " , the attack was done by " the other team " . Apart from the grotesque sports metaphor , the Israel-Palestine situation has laid bare Western hypocrisy regarding war , terror , and human life . <p> While adding the disclaimer that " Hamas does not represent all the Palestinian people and has brought them only suffering " , Biden has also said that he is asking Israel to provide " life-saving capacity to help the Palestinians who are innocent and caught in the middle of this " . Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , whose term in office has been one of the cruellest for the Palestinians , has resorted to not just disinformation but clear lies , his government spinning every act of violence the IDF perpetrates as either self-defence or an act by Hamas . Netanyahu has , however , found a " true friend " in Biden , per the Israeli prime minister whose press statement alongside the American president seemed to be a reiteration of continued violence against Gaza . Back in the Middle East , members of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jeddah and came up with a less-than-urgent message for Israel : the OIC strongly " condemns " the " brutal Israeli massacre " in the hospital and sees it as " organised state terrorism and a war crime " . The OIC has asked the international community to " urgently intervene to stop the war crimes committed by the Israeli occupation in the Gaza Strip and provide international protection for the Palestinian people " and has said the " Israeli occupation is accountable for the consequences of its crimes , terrorist practices and brutal attacks against the Palestinian people " . <p> The OIC 's words may be correct but those expecting anything stronger may have to wait some more -- perhaps even indefinitely ? The Iranian foreign minister had suggested at the OIC that member-states should impose an oil embargo and other sanctions on Israel over its violence against the Palestinians . Given the OIC 's history , that would have been a surprising result . But where do Palestinians stand now ? The world 's Western powers have already come out strongly on the side of Israel while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and others who have historically not managed much of a way out for them . Add to that the non-stop obfuscation , apologia , and spin by Israeli authorities and their Western allies -- and it seems even Tuesday 's horrifying hospital bombing will be forgotten soon instead of being designated a confirmed war crime . Not all is lost though ; after Israel 's strike on the hospital , Jordan cancelled a summit it was to host in Amman with the American president and Egyptian and Palestinian leaders . We need more solidarity across what is called the Muslim world -- as well as across the whole of the Global South -- for the Palestinian people whose resistance against ethnic cleansing , Israeli terror and now open genocide is almost of mythical proportions . Meanwhile , the world looks on as Israeli airstrikes continued into Wednesday as well , as Gazans continued to be without water , and as humanitarian aid continued to be stuck somewhere between the land of apathy and the island of despair .
