<p> ISLAMABAD-Islamabad police have apprehended scores of leaders and activists of Jamaat-e-Islami ( JI ) for attempting to block Srinagar Highway during a protest against Israel for bombing on Gaza martyring hundreds of Palestinians including children . The police allegedly uprooted the protest/ aid camps of JI from various parts of capital city . The Islamabad police also resorted to teargas shelling to disperse the JI leaders and activists , subsequently reopening the Srinagar Highway for traffic movement . The detained workers and leaders were shifted to different police stations by police while sparking an unrest along top leadership of JI who marched on roads against police atrocities . A senior officer of Islamabad police told media that the district government had ordered police for action against JI leaders and workers as the were planning to hold " Gaza March " outside the US Embassy in diplomatic enclave . It may be noted that Ameer JI Pakistan Siraj-Ul-Haq had announced a protest in front of US Embassy in Islamabad today ( Sunday ) to show solidarity with the people of Gaza who are facing history 's worst bombing by the Isreali Defence Force . According to details , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ held scores of its leaders and activists during a massive action in capital city . The police had taken this action against JI leaders following orders of district government for not relocating their planned protest in front of the US Embassy . During a clampdown , scores of leaders and activists of JI were arrested by the police . Reportedly , police baton charged to dispurse the protestors . Nonetheless , JI chief Siraj ul Haq had announced the " Gaza March " to be taken out in front of the US Embassy today ( Sunday ) in any cost . However , the administration denied permission to JI for the protest demonstration near the highly sensitive diplomatic enclave in Red Zone . " In a massive use of brutal force , the Islamabad police and Frontier Constabulary destroyed our stage and seized sound systems , and other equipment from the Red Zone preventing the preparations for the Gaza March , " said a JI leader while talking to a group of reporters . He said that police had carried out operation and held scores of leaders and activists of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men , a spokesperson to IG Islamabad said that some individuals were detained for their involvement in blocking the Srinagar Highway for traffic movements . He clarified that no political party or organisation would be allowed to block roads in capital city . He clarified that due to the imposition of Section 144 in the capital , no rallies or processions would be permitted within federal capital.Later , JI took out rally in Islamabad and chanted slogans against caretaker PM , Interior Minister , police and other leaders . The most echoed slogan , chanted by JI protestors , was simply " Those who are friends of US are actually traitors . " The JI leaders also convened a press conference in Melody and denounced police action against protestors of JI.
