<h> Antisemitism on campus surges as agitators take over <p> Students at Columbia University have been alerted that all in-person classes will be held virtually through the end of the semester as anti-Israel protesters have taken over the campus . Columbia President Minouche Shafik set a deadline of midnight Tuesday to reach an agreement in negotiations with anti-Israel protesters . <h> Fast Facts <p> Students at a growing number of U.S. colleges and universities are forming anti-Israel protest encampments on campus in a unified demand that their schools divest from Israel . <p> The protests began with more than 100 students at Columbia University in New York City and have spread from Massachusetts to California and Tennessee to Texas . <p> The protests come as the Israel-Hamas war surpassed the six-month milestone earlier this month , which has resulted in tens of thousands of civilian Palestinian deaths . The stories of suffering in Gaza have sparked international calls for a cease-fire and protests around the world . <h> Get the Best of Fox News <p> Fast , 24/7 alerts delivered to your inbox daily . Subscribe to be in the know of the most important moments around the world . <h> Anti-Israel protesters at UT Austin form human chain , shout ' pigs go home ' as troopers close in <p> Anti-Israel protesters on the campus of UT Austin formed a human chain as Texas DPS troopers moved in to clear the demonstration . <p> Protesters could be heard shouting , " Pigs go home ! " at the troopers who made a blockade with their bikes to allow Austin police to arrest at least one protester . <p> Demonstrations broke out earlier in the day as protesters called on the university to " divest from death , " following similar scenes at other campuses nationwide in response to Israel 's ongoing war in Gaza . <h> EXCLUSIVE : Columbia President Minouche Shafik spotted on campus as calls for her to resign intensify <p> Columbia University President Minouche Shafik was spotted on campus amid calls for her to resign intensify . <p> The university , like others nationwide , have been beset by rowdy protests over Israel 's ongoing war in Gaza . <p> Shafik said in a message to the school community Monday that she was " deeply saddened " by what was happening on campus . <p> " To deescalate the rancor and give us all a chance to consider next steps , I am announcing that all classes will be held virtually on Monday , " Shafik wrote , noting that students who do n't live on campus should stay away . <h> White House vows to not be quiet on violent protests : ' Silent is complicit ' <p> White House officials addressed the anti-Israel protests taking place at universities across the country on Wednesday , saying President Biden believes in free speech , but when violent rhetoric and physical intimidation takes place , it must be called out . <p> White House Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre was asked by a reporter during a briefing on Wednesday what the president thinks of how the administration at Columbia University in New York City has been handling the protests . <p> Jean-Pierre directed questions about personnel to university officials because it was up to them to comment on the situation . But she spoke about the situation at the university , saying it is " a deeply painful , painful moment for communities . " <p> This is an excerpt of a story by Fox News Digital 's Greg Wehner . Click here to read the full report . <p> Speaker Mike Johnson , R-La. , is suggesting the National Guard should soon be called in to quell the Gaza ceasefire protests at Columbia University if they do n't peter out themselves . <p> Johnson and several House Republicans visited the New York City Ivy League school on Wednesday as tensions there escalate over demonstrations that have had several Jewish students speak out publicly about fear for their safety . Columbia University students and those attending its sister school , Barnard College , have set up a tent city on campus in protest of Columbia 's investments in companies linked to Israel . <p> Tensions over the issue almost reached a boiling point several times during Johnson 's speech as pro-ceasefire student activists repeatedly heckled and tried to interrupt the Louisiana Republican with coordinated chants which included " We ca n't hear you " and " Mike , you s--- . " <p> This is an excerpt of a story by Fox News Digital 's . Click here to read the full report . <p> Texas Gov . Greg Abbott on Wednesday said troopers are arresting anti-Israel protesters who had assembled at the university of UT Austin . <p> " Arrests being made right now &amp; will continue until the crowd disperses . These protesters belong in jail , " he said . " Antisemitism will not be tolerated in Texas . Period . Students joining in hate-filled , anti-Semitic protests at any public college or university in Texas should be expelled . " <h> House Speaker Mike Johnson arrives at Columbia University as anti-Israel protests rage <p> House Speaker Mike Johnson arrived on the campus of Columbia University Wednesday amid ongoing anti-Israel protests . <p> Speaker Johnson addressed the crisis in Gaza which has ignited the protests at Columbia as well as other campuses nationwide . <p> In his speech , Johnson blasted Columbia administrators for letting " threats , the fear and the intimidation of the mob rule to overtake American principles like free speech and the free exchange of ideas and the free exercise of religion . " <p> " We just ca n't allow this kind of hatred and enemy anti-Semitism to flourish on our campuses , and it must be stopped in its tracks , " Johnson said . <p> Rep. Virginia Foxx , R-N.C. , who spoke alongside Johnson took aim at Columbia University President Minouche Shafik , telling her that the " inmates are running the asylum . " <p> " Take back control , all of this once great institution . You took action last week , it 's time to act again . If not , the committee will pursue every possible avenue to create a safe learning environment for Jewish students , " she said . <p> As they spoke protesters attempted to drown them out with boos and chants , shouting " we ca n't hear you ! " <p> Johnson said he planned to share with President Biden what he had seen with his own eyes . <p> " If this is not contained quickly and if these threats and intimidation are not stopped , there is an appropriate time for the National Guard . We have to bring order to these campuses , " he said . " We can not allow this to happen around the country . " <p> Social media video shows police officers tackling keffiyeh-wearing agitators on the school 's University Park campus , prompting students to yell and scream . Student protesters from the school 's Divest from Death Coalition and National Students for Justice in Palestine have been occupying Alumni Park in opposition to the Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) . <p> " To not stand in opposition of the expressly racist violence here and abroad is to ignore the calls for solidarity demanded by the majority of the world , " the organization said in a social media post , according to FOX 11 Los Angeles . " USC acts in accordance with these oppressions , and to call against this is to recognize both the inhumanity of these systems and our own humanity in opposing them . " <p> USC has been one of the American campuses most affected by anti-Israel student protests in recent days . Anti-Israel students have been demanding that school bureaucrats conduct an academic boycott of Israel and that officials urge for a ceasefire in the Middle East , among other requests . <h> Harvard students throwing up ' Gaza solidarity encampment ' on campus after committee suspended <p> Anti-Israel students at Harvard Wednesday launched a " Gaza solidarity encampment " on campus after the university placed the Harvard Palestine Solidarity Committee on suspension . <p> The encampment began at around 12:49 p.m. , according to the Harvard Crimson . The student paper reported that by 3:33 p.m. , the initial crowd had " dispersed , " although many student protesters still remained . <p> Video of the chaotic scene shows throngs of students throwing up tents in the middle of Harvard Yard . The scene follows similar demonstrations nationwide , from Columbia , to NYU , to UT Austin . <p> National Students for Justice in Palestine tweeted : " The more they try to silence us the louder we will be . " <p> The organizers of the demonstration have told protesters to not speak with schools officials if approached . Students are reportedly expected to face disciplinary action . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu condemned the anti-Israel protests seen on U.S. college campuses in a statement released Wednesday . <p> In a video , Netanyahu called reports of " antisemitic mobs " building encampments on college campuses " horrific " and compared what is happening to " German universities in the 1930s . " <p> " It 's unconscionable . It has to be stopped . It has to be condemned and condemned unequivocally . But that 's not what happened . The response of several university presidents was shameful , " Netanyahu said . <p> Though police have arrested hundreds of protesters at Columbia University and New York University , and other schools have taken disciplinary action against disruptive demonstrations on their campuses , Netanyahu said " more has to be done . " <p> " It has to be done not only because they attack Israel , that 's bad enough , not only because they want to kill Jews wherever they are , that 's bad enough , it 's also when you listen to them , it 's also because they say not only , ' Death to Israel . Death to the Jews , ' but ' death to America . ' And this tells us that there is an antisemitic surge here that has terrible consequences . " <p> The Palestine Solidarity Committee held a rally at UT Austin on April 24 , 2024 , following similar protests at Columbia University and others . ( KTBC ) <p> The Palestine Solidarity Committee staged a class walkout and rally at the University of Texas at Austin campus on Wednesday following similar protests at Columbia University , Yale and other college campuses . <p> Student protesters gathered at Greg Gym at 11:40 a.m. to demand that the school divest from Israel . <p> " In the footsteps of our comrades at Columbia SJP , Rutgers-New Brunswick , Yale , and countless others across the nation , we will be establishing THE POPULAR UNIVERSITY FOR GAZA and demanding our administration divest from death , " the Palestine Solidarity Committee posted on Instagram . <p> " We will be occupying the space throughout the entire day , so be sure to bring blankets , food and water , face masks , and lots of energy . As a reminder please be sure to respect our space and listen to organizers in order to help keep us all safe , " the post read . <p> Texas Department of Public Safety officers in riot gear were deployed to the protest . Members of the crowd could be heard chanting " the whole world is watching " and calling officers at the scene " fascists . " <p> Prospective students are increasingly opting for colleges like Elon in North Carolina , Clemson in South Carolina and the University of Miami in Florida over elite northeastern schools . <p> For Jewish students , the rise of antisemitism and anti-Israel protests on campuses like Columbia have shown students like Scott Katz that choosing Elon was the right decision . Elon received an A grade from the Anti-Defamation League for its work to protect Jewish students from hate on campus . <p> " It was a big deal , " Katz told The Free Press of the environment on campus . <p> " Even if I could 've gotten into Harvard , I would n't have gone , " Katz said . " I wanted a school that felt right for me , not someplace that we 're told we 're supposed to want to go . " <p> " Never before have we seen so much interest in colleges like Clemson , Georgia Tech , and North Carolina State , " assistant vice provost and executive director of undergraduate admissions at Georgia Tech , Rick Clark , told the outlet . " That 's just unprecedented . " <p> Other parents and students cited COVID-era lockdown policies as the reason that they started to more seriously consider southern schools . <p> " Kids up north were pretty unhappy during those Covid lockdown years , " a father of a prospective college student , Larry Glazer , said . " And colleges down south were offering something different . My son and his friends would look at TikTok and see all these college kids going to football games , throwing parties , living their lives . It has an impact . " <p> A Columbia professor barred from campus after hosting a pro-Jewish rally slammed Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez , D-N.Y. , Wednesday , following her comments on the " nonviolent " anti-Israel protesters . <p> " AOC is agent of chaos , and I am just looking forward to my kids and grandkids reading about this chapter in history , and the list of all the rabid antisemites , and to see her name , " professor Shai Davidai told " America 's Newsroom . " <p> " This is not a peaceful protest ... she is lying to the people just like Rashida Tlaib , just like Cynthia Nixon from ' Sex and the City , ' just like the New York Times , " he continued . <p> Cortez , in her X post on Tuesday , wrote , " Calling in police enforcement on nonviolent demonstrations of young students on campus is an escalatory , reckless , and dangerous act . It represents a heinous failure of leadership that puts people 's lives at risk . I condemn it in the strongest possible terms . " <p> Her rhetoric came as chaos on Columbia 's campus ignited concerns among the Jewish community as they feared for students ' safety . One rabbi even warned Jewish students to leave campus , cautioning that the NYPD " can not guarantee your safety . " <h> Columbia University parent speaks out against ' nightmare ' situation on campus <p> Columbia University parent Amy Gallatin joined ' Fox &amp; Friends First ' on Wednesday to discuss how the widespread anti-Israel protests on campus have impacted her daughter . <p> Gallatin said her child is a " proud Jew " and shared her concern that antisemitic sentiment surrounding the protests has created a " threatening " environment that has affected her child 's ability to go to class . <p> " It 's not that the Jews are ' fearful ' so much as they are being threatened , " Gallatin said . <p> " The climate 's been pretty toxic since October 7th . " <p> Gallatin shared that she 's had many " sleepless nights " worried about potential harassment her daughter faces as a Jew on campus . <p> " When you 're now having to reconcile what 's happening in their classrooms on top of what 's happening on the campus , it 's a very disturbing thing , " she said . " And it 's making all of the parents extremely concerned . " <p> Columbia University said in an update Wednesday that it is making " important progress " with representatives of the student encampment . <p> The university said demonstrators have committed to removing a " significant number " of tents and ensuring that only student protesters affiliated with Columbia will remain on campus to participate . The school extended a deadline to remove the encampment for another 48 hours in light of these commitments and others . <h> Brown University disciplines 90 students who set up encampment on campus <p> One of the main gates on the Brown University campus , decorated with the University crest . ( Photo by Rick Friedman/Corbis via Getty Images ) <p> Brown University on Wednesday said a group of students who set up a pro-Palestinian encampment on campus will face disciplinary action for violating school policy . <p> At around 6 a.m. , dozens of students set up a tent city on the main green , with campus security nearby and observing , the Providence Journal reported . School officials said in a statement that 90 students who were involved in the protest have been informed they broke school rules . <p> " Encampment on Brown University 's historic and residential greens is a violation of University policy , and all of the students participating have been informed they will face conduct proceedings , " Brown University said in a statement . <p> " This policy is years old , established in October 2011 , and not new . Protest is an acceptable means of expression at Brown , but it becomes unacceptable when it violates University policies that are intended to ensure the safety of members of the Brown community and that there is no interference in the rights of others to engage in the regular operations of the university . " <p> The administration said the campus Department of Public Safety will continue to monitor the situation and ensure that protests do not disrupt the university 's operations . <p> " We have been troubled by reports of violence , harassment and intimidation at some encampments on other campuses , but we have not seen that kind of behavior at Brown . Any such behavior would not be tolerated , " officials said . <p> " There 's also a lot more casualties on the Palestinian side than there is on the Israeli side , " another activist chimed in . <p> " And I 'm not trying to like , compare the sides , but a lot of people are like , ' oh my God , October 7th , October 7th , ' but like , no , this is since 1948 . " <p> " People are saying , well , but what about the Jewish community that is under attack as well ? The women that were raped , the kids that were put into ovens , " Jones said . <p> One activist turned to the other activist and questioned the legitimacy of the claims that women and children were raped and tortured during the Oct. 7 massacre . She said she thought those claims were debunked . <p> " The UN came out with a report , " Jones said . <p> " I do n't know the resource , but like I said , we 're not here to condone ... we 're not here for violence at all , " she said in response . <p> " Do you feel like you could separate the two and you say , hey , let 's just talk about the humanitarian aspect of it without talking about the larger conversation of Hamas using the people that you care about , I care about , as human shields ? Like , does that concern you ? " Jones asked . <p> " It does concern me . It does . It 's actually really unfortunate , " she said . " We do n't look highly at that at all because you 've got to understand , you 're all talking about Hamas this , Hamas this . We 're talking about the civilians . " <h> Mike Rowe rips Ivy League for having ' lost its mind ' amid anti-Israel protests : ' Thugs and bullies ' <p> " How America Works " host Mike Rowe called out the Ivy League for allowing " madness " and antisemitism on campuses in a post Monday . <p> Rowe said that his foundation , mikeroweWORKS , is helping place young people at trade schools , which unlike the Ivy League , he argued , does not have students that are calling for the extermination of Jews . <p> " The Ivy League has truly lost its mind , " he wrote on social media platform X. <p> " Consider the latest madness at Columbia University , where the president , Minochuhe Shafik , has announced a new round of remote learning - effective immediately - in response to a noisy rabble of thugs and bullies calling for the eradication of Israel , " Rowe continued . " If I had a kid at Columbia , I 'd be livid . It 's simply mind-boggling that the president of this university would rather consign her students to another crucible of remote learning , than permanently expel the protesters . " <p> Columbia University President Dr. Nemat " Minouche " Shafik said in a statement posted early Monday morning that she was " deeply saddened " by certain actions of the agitators and called for a " reset . " <p> " I am deeply saddened by what is happening on our campus , " Shafik wrote . " Our bonds as a community have been severely tested in ways that will take a great deal of time and effort to reaffirm . Students across an array of communities have conveyed fears for their safety and we have announced additional actions we are taking to address security concerns , " Shafik said . <p> " I mean , seriously , what does it take to get expelled from Columbia ? " Rowe asked , calling out " creeps " on campus who have been caught " literally screaming into the faces of Jewish students . " <h> Speaker Johnson calls for Columbia University president to resign <p> Speaker Mike Johnson ( R-LA ) speaks to members of the press after the House of Representatives passed bills , including aid to Ukraine and Israel , on Capitol Hill in Washington , DC on April 20 , 2024 . ( Photo by Nathan Posner/Anadolu via Getty Images ) <p> House Speaker Mike Johnson , R-La. , on Wednesday said House Republicans will hold a press conference later in the afternoon to call on Columbia University President Minouche Shafik to resign . <p> Johnson told talk radio host Hugh Hewitt that Shafik is a " very weak , inept leader " and criticized the university after Jewish students were advised to leave campus for their safety . <p> " They can not even guarantee the safety of Jewish students ? They are expected to run for their lives and stay home from class ? It 's maddening , " Johnson said . " What we are seeing on these college campuses across the country is disgusting and unacceptable and every leader in this country , every political official , every citizen of good conscience has to speak out and say ' this is not who we are in America . ' " <p> An Orthodox rabbi at Columbia University and Barnard College recently sent a message recommending Jewish students leave campuses and go home as students continue to occupy an encampments there . <p> In a WhatsApp message sent to hundreds before the start of Passover , Rabbi Elie Buechler , director of OU-LJIC at Columbia/Barnard , told students to leave " as soon as possible " until the situation improves , noting that " what we are witnessing in and around campus is terrible and tragic . " <p> Johnson condemned reports of physical assaults and harassment against Jewish students during the widespread anti-Israel protests on university campuses . <p> " We need to revoke federal funding to these universities if they can not keep control . We need to revoke these student visas for these violent protesters , " Johnson said . " You do n't have a right to be here and to do this , but Jewish students have a right to be able to peacefully attend classes . They are trying to get an education . This is just madness . " <p> Sergeant Joseph Imperatrice , founder of Blue Lives Matter NYC , warned that protests like the anti-Israel encampment at Columbia University can create a dangerous situation for police officers . <p> Appearing on " Fox &amp; Friends First " on Wednesday morning , Imperatrice said the experience for cops dealing with protesters is " always disgusting . " <p> " It 's very easy to get hut and you 're getting people that try to push you and shove you and cross the line so that you do something wrong . There 's cameras everywhere , " Imperatrice said . " It 's not easy for them , but they have shown the utmost respect and restraint , and they 're going to continue to do it . " <p> Imperatrice also said he agreed with New York City Mayor Eric Adams that outside agitators appear to be the ones escalating the protests and throwing bottles at police officers . <p> " They do come here , they 're coordinated . They 're orchestrated , " he said , adding later that the protests are also happening in other states , not just New York . <p> " And we 're seeing them stop airports , stop traffic . You do n't do this unless you 're on some kind of system to be able to coordinate with one another . " <p> Inspired by ongoing protests and the arrests last week of more than 100 students at Columbia University in New York City , seen at the epicenter of the ongoing demonstrations , students from Massachusetts to California , and Tennessee to Texas , are now gathering by the hundreds and are pledging to stay put on campus until their demand is met . <p> " We want to be visible , " said Columbia protest leader Mahmoud Khalil . " The university should do something about what we 're asking for , about the genocide that 's happening in Gaza . They should stop investing in this genocide . " <p> The nationwide movement has gained momentum and has taken on new strength as administrators continue to allow anti-Israel demonstrations at schools like Columbia , Yale , MIT , UC Berkeley , University of Southern California , Princeton , Harvard , Stanford , Northwestern University , Vanderbilt University , University of Michigan , University of North Carolina , University of Virginia and others . <p> The protests come as the Israel-Hamas war surpassed the six-month milestone earlier this month , which has resulted in tens of thousands of civilian Palestinian deaths . The stories of suffering in Gaza have sparked international calls for a cease-fire and protests around the world . <p> Students at campuses across the U.S. have demanded their schools stop doing business with Israel or the U.S. Defense Department , which gives money to it . While the specific demands may vary from campus to campus . Among them include : <p> Stop doing business with military weapons manufacturers that are supplying arms to Israel . <p> Stop accepting research money from Israel for projects that aid the country 's military efforts . <h> Columbia Students for Justice in Palestine issues ultimatum to school administrators <p> People march as they gather to protest the banning of Students for Justice in Palestine ( SJP ) and Jewish Voice for Peace ( JVP ) at Columbia University on November 20 , 2023 in New York City . ( Photo by Michael M. Santiago/Getty Images ) <p> Columbia University gave the anti-Israel demonstrators a 48 hour deadline to end the encampment on campus , with a New York Police Department presence standing by at the university . University President Minouche Shafik said that if discussions are unsuccessful , administrators will have to " consider alternative options for clearing the West Lawn and restoring calm to campus so that students can complete the term and graduate . " <p> Demonstrators said they would not continue to negotiate with the administration without a written commitment that the administration will not be using the New York City Police Department or the National Guard on its students . <p> " We remain steadfast in our convictions and will not be intimidated by the University 's disturbing threat of an escalation of violence , " Columbia Students for Justice in Palestine said in a statement . <p> " We will not concede to cowardly threats and blatant intimidation from an administration that continuously acts in bad faith and repeatedly neglects the safety of students . " <h> Columbia 's billionaire donors mull giving amid anti-Israel protests <p> Ultra-wealthy benefactors like New York Patriots owner Robert Kraft announced he is pulling financial support to his alma mater over the anti-Israel protests that are unfolding on campus . Kraft also started the Foundation to Combat Antisemitism ( FCAS ) . Kraft 's net worth is over $11 billion , as tracked by Forbes . <p> Another graduate , billionaire industrialist Len Blavatnik , who also has a history of giving significant amounts of money to philanthropy , told FOX Business that the school 's " leadership must take immediate steps to ensure that Jewish students are protected from threats and intimidation , and that those who violate their policies are held to account . " Blavatnik has a net worth of over $31 billion , as tracked by Forbes . <p> Blavatnik did n't confirm if he was suspending his giving . However , sources told The New York Post he might also consider pulling back on his donations . <p> The school started losing donors shortly after the war kicked off in early October after Hamas terrorists stormed Gaza in a surprise attack , killing over 1,100 Israelis and kidnapping over 200 , some of whom remain hostages . <p> During an interview with Liz Claman on " The Claman Countdown " on Oct. 26 , 2023 , Columbia University graduate , billionaire investor and Omega Advisors CEO Leon Cooperman pledged to suspend his giving . <p> " I think these kids at the colleges have sh*t for brains " Cooperman told Claman . " I 've given to Columbia probably about $50 million over many years , " he continued . " And I 'm going to suspend my giving . I 'll give my giving to other organizations . " <p> This week , he told CNBC , he was " uncomfortable " with what is going on at the school but declined to elaborate on future donations . He did say he plans to support Columbia 's business school " when they solicit " him . <h> Jewish alum outlines steps Columbia president should have taken ' the second ' protests started <p> An alumna of Barnard College , one of Columbia 's four undergraduate colleges , is watching the anti-Israel protests and general unrest at Columbia University with a heavy heart . <p> Daniella Greenbaum Davis , a Jewish-American writer , Emmy-winning producer , and alumna of Barnard College , remembers a similarly charged atmosphere during her own tenure , one where she heard shouts of " intifada " or calls to bring intifada to campus . But , she said , today 's demonstrations have reached a new level of extreme . <p> " I do not think I would send my kids to Columbia right now , " Davis told Fox News Digital . <p> Davis is also a third-generation Holocaust survivor and recently shared part of her family 's harrowing history on X. <p> " My great great grandparents were murdered in Auschwitz , " she wrote on Oct. 13 , less than a week after Hamas ' terror attack against Israel . " My great grandmother lived under the Nuremberg laws . My grandmother survived Bergen Belsen . Jews , despite the anguish , never forget : we will survive this too . But the trauma is imprinted on our genes . " <p> This Passover at Columbia will be peppered with increased security for upcoming events and services , with police presence at the Kraft Center , a Jewish cultural center shared by Columbia and Barnard College , while students can get walking escorts to and from the building , according to reports . <p> " If you need a physical escort to get from your dorm to where you 're gathering to have a religious meal on campus , that is not a campus I would choose to send my Jewish children to , " Davis said . " And I ca n't think of a Jewish parent in America that would choose to send their children to that kind of environment . " <p> Columbia University has been engulfed in protests over Israel 's ongoing military operation in Gaza . Hirsi was suspended from Barnard College , one of Columbia 's undergraduate schools , and arrested by the NYPD for her participation in the anti-Israel protest on Columbia University 's campus . The NYPD claimed she was among more than 100 people issued a summons for trespassing . <p> Hirsi and a fellow protester appeared on Saturday 's episode of MSNBC 's " Ayman Mohyeldin Reports , " where she was asked if student activists like herself are being targeted because of their " solidarity with Palestinians . " <p> Hirsi argued anti-Israel protesters are " 100% targeted . " <p> " Every single protest that we have , there 's a group of counter professors that bring all of their items , their flags , things like that , and they 're not seen as having unsanctioned protest or really receive the kind of disciplinary warnings that many of our fellow organizers received just for being seen at these protests , and so there is definitely some hypocrisy here , " she said . <p> She argued that such hypocrisy is especially salient considering counter-protesters used what she called " chemical weapons . " <p> " You can kind of see it with the students that were , sprayed us with the chemical weapons , and the fact that there 's no public information as to what happened to them , but rather , the university is actively discussing what is happening to the Anti-Israel students here and making it a whole public spectacle rather than , when we have n't done anything to physically harm students , whereas those that sprayed those chemical weapons physically harm students , " she said . <p> As for the chemical weapon claim , Hirsi was most likely referring to an incident involving " fart spray . " A Columbia University student who served in the Israeli armed forces is suing the school after he was suspended for using the noxious spray during an anti-Israel protest . The student is also accusing the school of selectively enforcing its policies to protect students . <p> After anti-Israel protests formed at Columbia University , UC Berkeley and Yale , additional activist groups have become inspired to lead their own resistance movements , forcing schools in California , Texas and Maryland to brace for potential mayhem , Fox News has learned . <p> Activist groups at the University of California - Los Angeles ( UCLA ) , the University of Texas at Austin , and Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore , Maryland , have all announced on social media that they will hold anti-Israel protests on Wednesday , April 24 . <p> Pro-Palestinian factions at all three universities have posted on social media indicating that they intend to hold " resistance " movements , including a post from the Hopkins Justice Collective which calls members to " stand in support of our brothers and sisters in Gaza , as well as the students on many college campuses across the country fighting for divestment from the settler colony of Israel . " <p> The newly anticipated anti-Israel protests come as activists have seen massive turnouts with hundreds of students at Columbia University in New York City and Yale in New Haven , Connecticut . Similar protests have risen at other universities in recent days . <p> Columbia University issued a press statement around 3:15 a.m . Wednesday regarding its ongoing negotiations with anti-Israel protesters on campus . There are four sticking points , according to the university , which said , " We are making important progress with representatives of the student encampment on the West Lawn . " <p> Student protestors have committed to dismantling and removing a significant number of tents . <p> Student protesters will ensure that those not affiliated with Columbia will leave . Only Columbia University students will be participating in the protest . <p> Student protestors in the encampment will comply with all requirements of FDNY with respect to activities and safety . <p> Student protestors have taken steps to make the encampment welcome to all and have prohibited discriminatory or harassing language . <p> " In light of this constructive dialogue , the university will continue conversations for the next 48 hours . We will report back on progress , " the university concluded . <p> Columbia President Minouche Shafik on Tuesday evening initially set a deadline at midnight to reach an agreement in negotiations with student organizers involved in the " Gaza Solidarity Encampment " or their would be involvement from law enforcement . The deadline passed with no resolution and no altercations , according to reports . <p> Reports surfaced that New York Gov . Kathy Hochul could call in the National Guard , despite her saying Tuesday she would not send the military unit to the university . <p> There has been a large police presence by NYPD since Tuesday night , including both counterterrorism units and riot police . <h> NYPD has riot police , counterterrorism unit standing by : report <p> The Columbia University Apartheid Divest ( CUAD ) , a coalition of more than 100 Columbia University student groups who " see Palestine as the vanguard for collective liberation , " issued a statement Tuesday night that said no deal would be reached until there 's a " written commitment that the administration will not be unleashing the NYPD or the National Guard on its students . " <p> Reporters embedded in the West Lawn encampment and outside of the Columbia University gates early Wednesday morning noted an increased presence of NYPD riot officers and members of its counterterrorism team on hand as the night unfolds on campus . <p> Student reporters from radio station WKCR said strategic command officers were lined up wearing riot gear , including protective shields for their faces . <p> President Minouche Shafik on Tuesday evening set a deadline at midnight to reach an agreement in negotiations with student organizers involved in the " Gaza Solidarity Encampment " or their would be involvement from law enforcement . The deadline passed with no resolution and no altercations , according to reports . <p> The deadline for protesters to leave the encampment has reportedly been moved to 8 a.m. , but police told those inside the camp to keep down the use of amplified noise makers and beating against barricades down or else take a chance at being arrested . <p> There were scattered reports across social media that New York Gov . Kathy Hochul could order the state 's national guard to mobilize if the NYPD needed assistance in dispersing the anti-Israel protesters . Hochul said Monday she had no plans to send troops to the university protests . <p> Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez , D-N.Y. tweeted Tuesday night that any police enforcement against the anti-Israel protesters would be an " escalatory , reckless , and dangerous act . " <p> " It represents a heinous failure of leadership that puts people 's lives at risk . I condemn it in the strongest possible terms , " she tweeted . <p> This comes after Ocasio-Cortez labeled anti-Israel protests on college campuses as " peaceful , " and ahead of Columbia University 's president setting a midnight deadline for protesters to reach an agreement or else face police invlovement . <p> President Minouche Shafik set a deadline at midnight to reach an agreement in negotiations with student organizers involved in the " Gaza Solidarity Encampment " or otherwise there could be " alternative options for clearing the West Lawn and restoring calm to campus so that students can complete the term and graduate . " <h> University president sets midnight deadline for agreement with protesters <p> Columbia University President Minouche Shafik set a deadline at midnight to reach an agreement in negotiations with student organizers involved in the " Gaza Solidarity Encampment . " Otherwise , there could be a consideration of " alternative options for clearing the West Lawn and restoring calm to campus so that students can complete the term and graduate . " <p> Shafik sent an email to the Columbia community shortly before 10 p.m . Tuesday night stating that members of groups from student organizers to members of faculty , administrators , and the University Senate " have been in dialogue " to " discuss the basis for dismantling the encampment , dispersing , and following university policies going forward . " <p> " I fully support the importance of free speech , respect the right to demonstrate , and recognize that many of the protestors have gathered peacefully , " Shafik wrote in her email . " However , the encampment raises serious safety concerns , disrupts campus life , and has created a tense and at times hostile environment for many members of our community . It is essential that we move forward with a plan to dismantle it . " <p> The university has already shifted to a hybrid learning environment amid safety concerns . This comes after Shafik on early Monday declared all classes that day would be online . <p> Tuesday 's midnight deadline comes less than a week after Shafik authorized a police sweep of the encampment , resulting in 108 arrests . It was the largest mass arrest on campus since 1968 . <p> " I also want to be clear that we will not tolerate intimidating , harassing , or discriminatory behavior , " Shafik said . " We are working to identify protestors who violated our policies against discrimination and harassment , and they will be put through appropriate disciplinary processes . " <h> Anti-Israel protesters arrested near Schumer 's Brooklyn home <p> Police officers were seen placing zip ties on demonstrators at the scene . <p> The New York Police Department did not immediately have a figure on the number of arrests . <p> The protest came a day after more than 100 people were arrested at an NYU Gaza solidarity encampment on the college campus . <p> Schumer was asked about the protest during a Tuesday night press conference following the Senate 's passage of a $95 billion foreign aid package for Israel and Ukraine . <p> He was asked by Fox News ' Kelly Phares to share a message for protesters , to which he replied by referring to his statement earlier condemning antisemitism on Columbia University 's campus . <p> " College campuses must be places of learning and discussion . Every American has a right to protest , but when protests shift to antisemitism , verbal abuse , intimidation , or glorification of Oct. 7 violence against Jewish people , that crosses the line . Campuses must remain safe for all students , " Schumer 's statement read . <p> When pressed again for a message to the protesters outside his home , he refused to answer . <h> Columbia protests are ' writing on the wall , ' about antisemitism on campuses : group founder says <p> The founder of a pro-Israel international campus movement is warning against history repeating itself as antisemitism continues to rage on university and college campuses across the country . <p> Ilan Sinelnikov , the president and founder of Students Supporting Israel ( SSI ) , a pro-Israel student movement , told Fox News Digital that history is repeating itself -- pointing to the recent anti-Israel protests on Columbia University 's campus in New York City . <p> " History at the end of the day repeats itself , " he said . " What we have seen back in the 30s with the harassment and intimidation of Jewish people across Europe , back when Jewish students were not allowed to universities and people were creating human chains in order to block Jewish students from entry . " <p> " Jewish students are being intimidated and harassed on college campuses . I was on a call with a Jewish student that goes to Columbia University , and she said , ' I ca n't wait to pack my bags and get on the first flight home . I do n't want to be on this campus anymore . ' " <p> " When you get to the point , when in our most prestigious universities , Jewish students do n't feel safe to walk on those campuses because they 're afraid of being harassed or afraid of being physically assaulted , " said Sinelnikov . " When you see all of that , the similarities are frightening . " <p> House GOP Conference Chair Elise Stefanik , R-N.Y. , sent a scathing letter to top Biden officials about the ongoing anti-Israel protests at Columbia University , demanding federal intervention to protect Jewish students . <p> In a letter dated Tuesday , Stefanik wrote to Education Secretary Miguel Cardona , Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas and Attorney General Merrick Garland . The New York congresswoman did not mince words when describing the disarray caused by the anti-Israel protests at the New York City Ivy League institution , threatening Jewish students and faculty . <p> " Over the past few days , anarchy has engulfed the campus of Columbia University and created an environment that is unsafe for Jewish students and faculty , " she wrote . " You have the ability and authority to put a stop to this and take concrete steps to hold accountable those responsible . " <p> " Consequences are needed for those who are calling for terrorism and violent attacks , " she added . Stefanik cited the Immigration and Nationality Act , which states that anyone who endorses terrorism can become ineligible for American residency , and noted that protesters are " brazenly endorsing Hamas and other terrorist organizations . " <p> Classes at Columbia will be entirely virtual for the rest of the semester due to the protesters " taking over " the campus . New York City Mayor Eric Adams blamed " outside agitators " for fanning the flames during a press conference Tuesday . <p> House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries , D-N.Y. , speaks to the media during a press conference at the U.S. Capitol on March 01 , 2023 in Washington , DC . <p> House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries , D-N.Y. , decried the intimidation of Jewish students and antisemitic rhetoric on college campuses in New York City as " unacceptable and deeply disturbing . " <p> Anti-Israel protests have raged on the campuses of Columbia University and New York University in recent days , with students setting up encampments in an effort to force the schools to divest from Israel . <p> " Every American has the constitutional right to free speech and peaceful assembly in the public square , " Jeffries said in a statement . " However , intentionally targeting Jews or any community on the basis of race , religion or ethnicity , acts of harassment and the use of physical violence will never be tolerated . " <p> " No Jewish student or faculty member should fear for their safety on campus or anywhere else in our nation , " he added . <p> Columbia recently announced that classes would shift to virtual or hybrid learning as Jewish students have voiced concerns over antisemitic rhetoric by pro-Palestinian supporters . <p> " The effort to crush antisemitism and hatred in any form is not a Democratic or Republican issue , " said Jeffries . " It 's an American issue that should bind us all together . We will continue to do everything possible to protect the Jewish community during this very fraught moment , fight the cancer of antisemitism and redouble our efforts to bring communities together . " <p> Former President Donald Trump leaves Trump Tower on his way to Manhattan criminal court on Monday in New York . ( AP Photo/Yuki Iwamura ) <p> Former President Trump slammed Columbia University for closing its campus amid violent anti-Israel , pro-Gaza protests , urging the college to " gain a little strength " and " courage , " while saying the move " means the other side wins . " <p> Trump took reporter questions in Trump Tower on Tuesday evening before a meeting with former Japanese Prime Minister Taro Aso , who is the current vice president of the Japanese Liberal Democratic Party . <p> The former president and presumptive 2024 Republican presidential nominee was asked if he would visit with Jewish students this week amid protests , following the news that House Speaker Mike Johnson plans to visit Columbia University 's campus Wednesday . <p> " Well , we have a lot of different things , but what 's going on with the colleges -- and , they 're closing Columbia now ? I mean , it 's just crazy , " Trump said . " Columbia should gain a little strength , a little courage and keep their school open . " <p> " It 's crazy because that means the other side wins , " Trump said . " When you start closing down colleges and universities -- that means the other side wins . " <p> The president of Accuracy in Media spoke with anti-israel protestors at Columbia University , including one individual who flipped him off . ( Accuracy in Media ) <p> A watchdog group that focuses on higher education released footage exposing the chaos occurring at the epicenter of the anti-Israel protests plaguing one of America 's most prestigious Ivy League universities . <p> Adam Guillette , president of Accuracy In Media , visited Columbia University to speak with the people behind the anti-Israel protests that have erupted at the school , filming his encounters in a video shared with Fox News Digital . <p> Guillette , who is Jewish , received a cold welcome when he asked several protesters questions about Hamas , the safety of Jewish students on campus , and why they were demonstrating against Israel . <p> One person said students were not being threatened despite the Morningside main campus switching to hybrid or remote learning for the remainder of the spring semester due to safety concerns for Jewish students . <p> When asked who their favorite terrorist group was , one person said " IDF " ( Israel Defense Forces ) . <p> Others cursed at Guillette or told him to " shut up " when asked if Hamas should remain in charge of " Palestine . " Another person flipped off Guillette and told him to " f--- off . " <h> House Speaker Johnson to meet with Jewish students at Columbia University <p> House Speaker Mike Johnson , a Republican from Louisiana , will meet with Jewish students at Columbia University on Wednesday . ( Ting Shen/Bloomberg via Getty Images ) <p> House Speaker Mike Johnson , R-La. , will meet with Jewish students at Columbia University on Wednesday as anti-Israel protests continue to besiege the Ivy League campus . <p> Johnson will meet with an unspecified number of students at 3 p.m. in a private meeting . <p> The speaker has criticized protesters who have taken over parts of colleges campuses in recent days in an organized effort to force schools to divest from Israel and companies that do business with the Jewish state . <p> " Amid anti-Israel protests , Jewish students at Columbia University do n't feel safe , " Johnson wrote in a Tuesday social media post . " It 's become so dangerous that students were forced out of the classroom . Let 's be clear : these are not peaceful protests , these are antisemitic mobs . " <p> After the meeting , Johnson will deliver some remarks and take questions " regarding the troubling rise of virulent antisemitism on America 's college campuses , " his office said . <p> An Orthodox rabbi at Columbia University and Barnard College recently sent a message recommending Jewish students leave campuses and go home as students continue to occupy an encampments there . <p> In a WhatsApp message sent to hundreds before the start of Passover , Rabbi Elie Buechler , director of OU-LJIC at Columbia/Barnard , told students to leave " as soon as possible " until the situation improves , noting that " what we are witnessing in and around campus is terrible and tragic . " <p> " The events of the last few days , especially last night , have made it clear that Columbia University 's Public Safety and the NYPD can not guarantee Jewish students ' safety in the face of extreme antisemitism and anarchy , " Buechler wrote . " It deeply pains me to say that I would strongly recommend you return home as soon as possible and remain home until the reality in and around campus has dramatically improved . " <p> As a result of the protests , Columbia instructed students that classes at the Morningside main campus have moved to hybrid learning " until the end of each school 's Spring 2024 semester . " <p> Anti-Israel protests at Columbia University that led to fear for the safety of Jewish students have sparked growing calls for tuition refunds over the chaos . <p> Last week , the New York City Police Department arrested 108 demonstrators after they had set up an encampment on the campus lawn . Over the weekend , a Columbia University rabbi urged Jewish students to leave campus following instances of antisemitic harassment . <p> In response to the rabbi 's message , commentator Bethany Mandel wrote on X , " Jewish parents need to demand their tuition back . If their kids ca n't be kept safe , Columbia owes them repayment . " <p> Then on Tuesday , students at the Ivy League institution were informed that classes have shifted to virtual or hybrid as concerns linger about campus safety stemming from the anti-Israel demonstrations . <p> One student , Michael D'Agostino told The New York Post the switch to hybrid classes is frustrating given " the amount we pay to be at this school to learn from these amazing faculties and professors . " <p> The total cost of attending Columbia University is $89,587 per school year . <p> " I 'm studying applied physics and applied math and those are classes I really benefit from being in-person , " the D'Agostino told the outlet . " I went through COVID and all that when we were online for about a year and it really disrupted our education . " <p> Mayor Eric Adams and New York Police Department top brass condemned " outside agitators " fanning the flames of anti-Israel protests at Columbia and New York University , as police made more arrests . <p> At his usual Tuesday press conference from City Hall , Adams , a Democrat and former police officer , praised the NYPD 's response . <p> " We ca n't have outside agitators come in and be destructive to our city , " Adams said . " Someone wanted something to happen at that protest at NYU . " <p> " People who peacefully protest for an issue , they 're not throwing bottles in chairs , " the mayor added . " And so we know that we have acknowledged and saw across the country , there are people who come have nothing to do with the issue and they want to aggravate . Now , if those police officers did n't show a high level of discipline , this could have been an ugly situation . " <p> The NYPD confirmed that 120 individuals were taken into custody by New York University on Monday , including 116 who were released with a summons for trespassing . <p> " What I learned during the Black Lives Matter protest , when I was notified under the previous administration that there were anarchists that came into the city with the determination of really disrupting and tearing our city apart , " Adams said . " We strongly believe that is the case right now , that there are people who are here . They latch on to any protests to see our police officers having bottles thrown at them , chairs . " <h> Who 's really behind Students for Justice in Palestine ? <p> Amid the anti-Israel protests raging on college campuses , questions about who or what is behind the seemingly well-organized effort are being asked as many of the demonstrations look identical , from the message to the tents being used in student encampments . <p> Jonathan Schanzer , a senior vice president with the Foundation for Defense of Democracies research institute , said his group began watching a group known as the Students for Justice in Palestine a decade ago . The group has been a fixture at such protests in recent weeks . <p> " And what we found was that there was an organization , an umbrella organization known as AMP , American Muslims for Palestine , " Schanzer told " America Reports . " " It started with just a handful of campuses . There 's now 200 campuses that have SJP . They use a lot of the same rhetoric . They use a lot of the same devices on campuses , the different means of protests . " <p> Much of the money being funneled to the SJP comes from an obfuscated money trail , including a nonprofit in White Plains , New York called Westpac , said Schanzer . <p> The goal is to put political pressure on the Biden administration , he said . <p> " I mean , the pressure was there for Trump , it was there for Obama , " Schanzer said . " The idea is to wield that political pressure as much as possible . And we 're seeing tactics that really do look like the 1960s revisited . " <p> " And you can see right now that the president is , is kind of having a bipolar moment as it comes to , the Israeli war effort in Gaza . On the one hand , we 're now supporting , with additional funding , this very just war that the Israelis are fighting , " he added . " In the same time , they 're talking about issuing sanctions or withholding certain funds from units that are operating in the IDF , the very same army that we 're looking to fund here . The president is trying to figure out how to walk a fine line . I think the message is muddled right now . And I do wonder whether these campus agitators have a role . " <h> Minnesota police clear out anti-Israel protest in the heart of Ilhan Omar 's congressional district <p> Police at the University of Minnesota 's Twin Cities campus dispersed an encampment of anti-Israel protesters in Rep. Ilhan Omar 's district on Tuesday morning . Nine protesters who refused to leave were arrested . ( Getty Images , inset Fox 9 KMSP ) <p> Police at the University of Minnesota cleared out an anti-Israel protest encampment from its Twin Cities campus , which is located in progressive " Squad " member Rep. Ilhan Omar 's district , and arrested nine demonstrators early Tuesday . <p> The university 's Department of Public Safety received reports that a group had set up an encampment with tents on the north end of the Northrop Mall , a university spokesperson told Fox News Digital . <p> Officers warned the protesters around 6 a.m. that those present were in violation of university policy and state trespassing law as tents are not allowed on campus without a permit , the spokesperson said , adding that " no encampments , tents , fires , or other types of encampment living arrangements have ever been permitted on any university properties or in buildings . " <p> " The group was asked to disperse by 7 a.m. and told they would be arrested if they chose to stay past that time , " the university spokesperson said . " Some of those present chose to disperse and continue peacefully protesting , but nine chose to remain and were arrested without incident . " <p> Those arrested were taken on trespassing charges to the Hennepin County jail , where more than a dozen demonstrations gathered to protest the arrests , Minnesota Public Radio reported . <p> Sen. Tom Cotton , R-Ark. , urged the New York Police Department to arrest anti-Israel protesters if they are breaking the law . <p> Authorities in New York have arrested protesters at various college campuses after they failed to disperse and began squatting on campus . <p> " These university presidents may need to ask the chief of police in New York and New York City 's finest to arrest anyone who 's breaking the law , who 's squatting on private property when they 've been told to disperse , who 's harassing or intimidating Jewish students in a nascent pogrom and demand that students actually do what they 're supposed to do on campus , which is go to school , " Cotton told " America Reports " on Tuesday . <p> Cotton also urged the Biden administration to revoke any visas for foreign students who are breaking the law and to deport them . <p> " They have no right to be here . They certainly have no right to be here spewing antisemitic and anti-Israel filth , " he said . <p> Columbia University called the NYPD last week to clean an encampment , resulting in 108 arrests for trespassing . Protesters are demanding the school divest itself from all companies that do business with Israel . <p> Cotton compared the protests , in which demonstrators have called for the destruction of Israel and the United States , to scenes in 1930s Nazi Germany , which preceded the Holocaust . <h> Israeli embassy in New York ' deeply troubled ' by ' rise in anti-Semitic incidents ' at Columbia , NYU <p> The Israeli embassy in New York City tells Fox News Digital Tuesday that it is " deeply troubled " by the " recent rise in anti-Semitic incidents " unfolding at schools such as Columbia and New York University . <p> The Consulate General of Israel in New York said " Such acts contravene free speech principles and have no place in academia . " <p> " We are deeply troubled and strongly condemn the recent rise in anti-Semitic incidents at institutions such as Columbia University and NYU , where Jewish , Israeli , and pro-Israeli students are targeted and denied a safe educational environment , " it said . <p> " These manifestations of hate are unacceptable . Institutional leaders must urgently address and correct these behaviors , " the consulate added . " Recent events have been overlooked for too long without significant intervention , which is now crucial than ever for the safety and well-being of all students . " <h> NYU sets up plywood barricades after raucous protests <p> Workers erect a wooden wall at Gould Plaza at New York University Stern School of Business after an encampment set up by NYU students was cleared out on Monday night and at least two dozen protesters were arrested on April 23 , 2024 in New York City . The students joined a growing number of college campuses throughout the country where student protesters are setting up tent encampments on school grounds to call for a ceasefire in Gaza and for their schools to divest from Israeli companies . ( Michael M. Santiago/Getty Images ) <p> New York University appears to be tightening security on campus after more than 100 anti-Israel agitators were arrested during Monday night 's protest . <p> Plywood barricades were installed at Gould Plaza , where a day earlier students and faculty had encamped and demanded that the school divest from Israel . Dozens were cited for trespassing and four face criminal charges after police were called to the scene to restore order . All have been released with summons to appear in court on disorderly conduct charges . <p> Antisemitism has surged on Ivy League campuses as students and outside protesters have put on demonstrations protesting the war in Gaza . Protesters carried pro-Hamas signs and chanted antisemitic slogans at NYU and Columbia University , accusing Israel of genocide against Palestinians for its response to the Oct. 7 terror attack , in which Hamas infiltrated the Jewish state and slaughtered 1,200 Israelis . <p> University spokesperson John Beckman said NYU was carrying on with classes Tuesday . <h> Democrat Rep. Ritchie Torres demands Columbia President Shafik get protests under control or resign <p> Rep. Ritchie Torres , D-N.Y. , on Tuesday called for Columbia University President Minouche Shafik to get the anti-Israel agitators on campus under control or resign . <p> In a statement , Torres said the decision to cancel in-person classes was a choice " to surrender control of Columbia to an antisemitic fringe . " <p> " If you can not ensure the safety of your students , then you have no business serving as President of any university , let alone the alma mater of Alexander Hamilton , " Torres said . <p> " What Columbia University needs is not an appeaser of antisemitism but a leader who will fight with moral clarity against it . College administrators should start defending their Jewish constituents and students and stop pandering to the antisemites who seek their destruction . Appeasing antisemitism never works , " he continued . <p> " That Columbia University has failed its Jewish students so profoundly is an indelible stain on the soul of the institution . If the President of Columbia University can not lead with moral clarity , then she should step aside for a true leader who can and will . " <p> Anti-Israel protesters at New York University walked out of class on Tuesday and gathered at Washington Square Park in New York City . <p> A large crowd of people carrying signs were seen in the park , where a speaker with a bullhorn led a call and response from those gathered . The crowd chanted , " free , free Palestine ! " and other slogans . <p> Hours earlier , more than 100 were arrested by NYPD for trespassing on NYU 's campus after police were called to the scene to disperse the unruly crowd . <p> NYPD sources police used zip ties and flex cuffs to remove the protesters from campus . They were taken on a bus to police headquarters , where they were charged with trespassing , the sources said . <p> Some of the protesters at Monday night 's demonstration were filmed hurling bottles at police . <p> " When NYU asked the NYPD to clear Gould Plaza of individuals who were refusing to disperse and were ' interfering with the safety and security of our community , ' our officers moved in without delay , " NYPD Deputy Commissioner of Operations Kaz Daughtry posted on X. <p> " Unfortunately , as they were dispersing the crowd , some chose violence and pelted the police with bottles , " Daughtry said . " The professionalism and composure our officers showed as they cleared the plaza -- despite these dangerous acts of aggression they encountered -- are to be commended . " <p> Former US President Barack Obama waves as as he arrives outside 10 Downing Street in central London , on March 18 , 2024 , ahead of his meeting with Britain 's Prime Minister Rishi Sunak . ( Photo by ADRIAN DENNIS/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> The open antisemitism running rampant on Columbia University 's campus in New York City has drawn condemnation from both sides of the aisle , but one prominent Democrat and alumnus of the school is remaining silent , choosing not to speak out against the anti-Israel demonstrations taking place there . <p> In a lengthy Monday post on X commemorating the celebration of Passover , former President Obama , who graduated from Columbia in 1983 , made no mention of protestors ' violent rhetoric aimed at the university 's Jewish students and staff , and neither he nor his representatives responded to Fox News Digital 's request for comment about the antisemitic demonstrations that have engulfed the campus since last week . <p> A number of other Democrats have , however , joined their Republican colleagues in denouncing discrimination against Jews at Columbia , which was forced to move all classes to virtual on Tuesday because of safety concerns . <p> " Every American has a right to protest , " Majority Leader Chuck Schumer , D-N.Y. , said in a statement . " But when protests shift to antisemitism , verbal abuse , intimidation , or glorification of Oct. 7 violence against Jewish people , that crosses the line . " <p> New York Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand , another Democrat , also denounced the display of antisemitism at the university , saying she was " appalled . " <p> " Threats of violence against Jewish students and the Jewish community are horrible , despicable and wholly unacceptable , " she said . " Using the rhetoric of terrorists has no place in New York , where we pride ourselves on tolerance and the right of every group to practice their religion in peace . " <p> Others who joined their party members in addressing the encampment were Sens . Jacky Rosen , D-Nev. , and John Fetterman , D-Penn . <h> House Democrat says he would be worried to send children to Columbia after visiting protests <p> Those protests have spread to multiple Ivy League and elite campuses across the U.S. and have resulted in hundreds of arrests . <p> " It has created a place that does not feel safe for all students from all backgrounds and races and religions , and the bottom line is that is completely unacceptable at any college campus , " Gottheimer said on CNN 's " This Morning . " <p> Gottheimer said he came to Columbia in support of an educational experience that is safe and welcoming for all students . <p> " No antisemitism , no Islamophobia , no attacks on anybody , " he said , endorsing " civil and constructive discourse . " <p> When asked if he would feel safe sending his children to Columbia University after what he witnessed on campus , Gottheimer said he would be concerned about their well-being . <p> " After what I saw yesterday ? I would be very concerned , " he said . " And I understand why parents would be very concerned . " <p> " Imagine sending your child off to college and obviously spending a pretty penny for it and they 're not safe and you 're worried if they 're going to be safe , " he said . <p> " I think that 's unacceptable , " Gottheimer continued , " that they ca n't even feel safe on the campus , and I think that it echoes a huge responsibility now that many of my colleagues are calling for , that these university presidents across the country step up and provide a safe space for all students . " <h> NYU students planning walkout following violent anti-Israel protests <p> Police intervene and arrest more than 100 students at New York University ( NYU ) who continue their demonstration on campus in solidarity with the students at Columbia University and to oppose Israel 's attacks on Gaza , in New York , United States on April 22 , 2024 . ( Photo by Selcuk Acar/Anadolu via Getty Images ) <p> A group called the NYU Palestine Solidarity Coalition is calling on students at New York University to walk out of classes Tuesday following violent anti-Israel protests that unfolded there last night . <p> The group has posted on Instagram for students to walk out of class at 1 p.m . ET and head to Washington Square Park in Manhattan " to reflect , debrief and strategize . " <p> Anti-Israel protests at New York University 's campus turned violent Monday night when demonstrators hurled bottles at police officers who were sent to the scene to disperse a large unruly crowd , officials said . <p> NYPD sources confirmed to Fox News on Tuesday that 133 demonstrators were arrested by police using zip ties and flex cuffs to remove the protesters from campus . They were taken on a bus to police headquarters , where they were charged with trespassing , the sources added . <p> The NYU Palestine Solidarity Coalition said in an Instagram post that NYU students in their group set up a " Gaza Solidarity Encampment " on Monday . <p> The group is demanding to " end all war profiteering and investment in genocide , " a " complete academic boycott of Israel , " the removal of NYPD on campus and that NYU " must protect free speech on campus and provide full amnesty to all students and faculty penalized for their pro-Palestinian activism . " <p> They claimed the arrests last night were " violent " but that " the violence we faced is only a fraction of the violence that Palestinians face on the ground every day . " <p> NYU did not immediately respond Tuesday to a request for comment from Fox News Digital regarding the walkout . <h> Bill Bennett : Authority has to be asserted on campuses against ' ignorant ' protesters <p> Bennett joined America 's Newsroom on Tuesday to react to the protests at Columbia and New York University 's campuses , where dozens of protesters were arrested for trespassing . <p> " The main thing that has to happen is authority has to be asserted on the campuses , " Bennett said . " It 's not enough for the presidents to maintain peace , they need to maintain the order and to assert their authority and say , ' this is a university . We do not do this here . You people are ignorant . Go to the library , if you 're students that are enrolled here , and read about what happened in the Holocaust . " <p> He criticized Columbia University 's decision to move to virtual classes , calling it a " win " for the disruptive protesters . <p> " The president of that university should say we are open . We are open for business . And anybody who tries to interfere with our students coming on campus will be arrested and , hopefully , for a long time , " Bennett said . <p> The University of California- Berkeley is among the latest campuses to join in on the anti-Israel protests sweeping the country , as students occupied part of the Bay Area campus Monday during a sit-in . <p> UCB Divest , a coalition of students , staff and faculty members , is one of the organizations leading the charge and calling on the community to come out and support their group , in what they call the first encampment of its kind on the West coast , during the occupation of Sproul Plaza . <p> " WE NEED YOU HERE ! We will need you every night throughout this week to take up space with us . We know the Bay Area will not disappoint , " the group posted on Instagram . <p> Organizers told Fox News the encampment is in solidarity with students from Columbia University and elsewhere who 've been arrested , and say the tents will remain until UC divests from corporations -especially military manufacturers- that are helping Israel with the war effort . <p> The group is also calling on the university to enact policies to protect Palestinian students , and call for an end " to the violence in Gaza . " <p> " As students of this university , we have no choice but to take action as UC Berkeley stays silent about our people 's genocide and remains complicit in the mass murder of Palestinians , " the group posted . <p> The group told Fox News that they are prepared to be arrested . However , Monday 's rally was reportedly peaceful and there was no sign of police . <p> Education Secretary Miguel Cardona released a statement Tuesday condemning the anti-Israel protests on college campuses that led to dozens of arrests . <p> " Antisemitic hate on college campuses is unacceptable . I am deeply concerned by what is happening at Columbia University . In November 2023 , our Office for Civil Rights opened an investigation of Columbia involving Title VI , " Cardona posted on X , formerly known as Twitter . <p> " While we ca n't comment on pending investigations , every student deserves to feel a sense of safety and belonging at school . Hate has no place in our schools . All education leaders must stand definitively against hate , antisemitism , anti-Arab , and anti-Muslim sentiment , " the secretary continued . <p> " Universities are at their best when they promote the respectful exchange of diverse views and constructive debate . Our Office for Civil Rights interprets the civil rights laws we enforce consistent with free speech and other rights protected under the First Amendment . " <p> " But we wo n't tolerate hate or harassment that targets students because of who they are or who they 're perceived to be , " he concluded . <h> Columbia University responds after Robert Kraft says he 's pulling support over antisemitic violence <p> Columbia University has told FOX Business on Tuesday that it is " grateful " for Robert Kraft 's " years of generosity and service " after the New England Patriots team owner announced he is pulling financial support to his alma mater over the antisemitic protests unfolding there . <p> On Monday , Kraft , through a statement released by his philanthropic organization Foundation to Combat Antisemitism , said he is " deeply saddened at the virulent hate that continues to grow on campus and throughout our country " and that he is no longer " comfortable supporting the university until corrective action is taken . " <p> When asked to respond to his remarks Tuesday , a Columbia spokesperson told FOX Business that " Columbia is grateful to Mr. Kraft for his years of generosity and service to Columbia . " <p> " This is a time of crisis for many members of our community and we are focused on providing the support they need while keeping our campus safe , " the spokesperson added . <p> Former US President Donald Trump speaks to the press as he arrives at his trial for allegedly covering up hush money payments linked to extramarital affairs , at Manhattan Criminal Court in New York City on April 23 , 2024 . ( Photo by BRENDAN MCDERMID/POOL/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> Former President Trump addressed the anti-Israel protests on college campuses Tuesday morning , calling them a " disgrace . " <p> Speaking ahead of his appearance in Manhattan court for his criminal trial , Trump blamed President Biden for the demonstrations , which have interrupted classes at Columbia and NYU and led to dozens of arrests . <p> " If this were me , they 'd be after me , they 'd be after me so much but they 're trying to give him a pass and what 's going on is a disgrace to our country , and it 's all Biden 's fault , " he continued . <p> " Everybody knows he 's got no message , he 's got no compassion and he does n't know what he 's doing , ca n't put two sentences together . Frankly , he is the worst president in the history of our country . " <p> " The signals he puts out are so bad . And I can tell you , he 's no friend of Israel , that 's for sure , " Trump added . <p> Trump is on trial for allegedly falsifying business records to cover up hush money payments to Stormy Daniels and other women he allegedly had sexual affairs with before his 2016 campaign for president . <h> Biden crushed for equivocating on antisemitic protests : ' Very fine people on both sides ' moment <p> President Biden 's latest comment on antisemitic protests on college campuses is being called his " very fine people on both sides " moment by some on social media . <p> Following the president 's Earth Day comments at Prince William Forest Park in Virginia , reporters caught up with Biden and asked for a comment on anti-Israel protests occurring across multiple universities at the time . <p> " Do you condemn the antisemitic protests on college campuses ? " Biden was asked . <p> " I condemn the antisemitic protests . That 's why I have set up a program to deal with that . I also condemn those who do n't understand what 's going on with the Palestinians , " he said . <p> Equating the antisemitic protests with people who " do n't understand " the Palestinians ignited several comments accusing Biden of echoing Trump 's " very fine people on both sides " Charlottesville comment from 2017 . <p> " This sure sounds like he 's ACTUALLY saying there are very fine people on both sides , " OutKick founder Clay Travis remarked . <p> " ' Very fine people on both sides , ' " RedState writer Bonchie agreed . <p> American Spectator writer Nate Hochman noted , " I 'm old enough to remember when ' good people on both sides ' was evil and racist . " <h> More than 100 arrested at NYU anti-Israel protest : NYPD <p> Police intervene and arrest more than 100 students at New York University ( NYU ) who continue their demonstration on campus in solidarity with the students at Columbia University and to oppose Israel 's attacks on Gaza , in New York , United States on April 22 , 2024 . ( Fatih Aktas/Anadolu via Getty Images ) <p> Officers used zip ties and flex cuffs to remove the protesters from campus . They were taken on a bus to police headquarters , where they were charged with trespassing , the sources said . <p> The arrests come after an NYU spokesperson told local media that the protestors were behaving in a " disorderly , disruptive , and antagonizing manner . " <p> Earlier , anti-Israel protesters had formed a human chain as police moved in to break up the demonstration . <p> Video shot by Fox News Digital shows the NYPD telling students : " You have been warned by New York University to leave the area . " <p> Those who did not leave soon , would be arrested for trespassing , NYPD said . <p> NYU 's Global Campus Safety posted on Instagram that protesters had breached the barriers set up at Gould Plaza , Fountain Walker . <p> " The one safety requirement we made was that no additional protestors could enter Gould Plaza . With the breach of the barricades early this afternoon , that requirement was violated , and we witnessed disorderly , disruptive , and antagonizing behavior that has interfered with the safety and security of our community , " the university said in a statement . <p> " We can not tolerate people getting hurt . You will need to clear the plaza by 4:00 pm . If you leave now , no one will face any consequences for today 's actions -- no discipline , no police . " <p> Mass arrests began around 8:30 p.m . Within an hour , the demonstration had largely fizzled out . <h> Arab-Israeli journalist speaks out after being attacked by anti-Israel agitator at Columbia <p> An Arab-Israeli journalist said anti-Israel agitators assaulted him ahead of a lecture he was supposed to give at Columbia University last Thursday . <p> Yoseph Haddad , a journalist , Israel Defense Forces veteran and activist who founded the interfaith group Together Vouch for Each Other , said a pro-Israel student group invited him to speak on campus about the coalition of Arabs and Jews in Israel last week , right as anti-Israel protests rocked the college campus . <p> When he first arrived , he was alarmed to find agitators chanting " intifada " and " from the river to the sea , " and confronted the group . <p> " Intifada means the moral death of Jews , the moral death of Arabs , " he said . <p> The Israeli journalist said he asked the group how they could " literally support terrorism " before they turned their hostilities toward him . Haddad said they began hurling death threats and antisemitic slurs at him even though he is not Jewish . <h> Holocaust survivor issues warning on anti-Israel protests : ' Can only end in tragedy ' <p> Holocaust survivor Tova Friedman called the anti-Israel protests on Ivy League campuses were " utterly shocking " and warned that antisemitism " can only end in tragedy . <p> Friedman , who was imprisoned at Auschwitz when she was five years old , reacted to footage from the protests at Columbia and New York University 's campuses on " Fox &amp; Friends . " <p> " I am shocked . I am pained . I 'm scared , both for America , I 'm scared for the Jews . And very painful for our young people , " Friedman said . " What 's shocking most of all is that the professors , some of them , are on board . " <p> Police made dozens of arrests and dispersed the protests at Columbia and NYU as demonstrators screamed antisemitic slogans and demanded that the schools divest from Israel . <p> Such demonstrations have exploded across college campuses in recent months out of protest at Israel 's offensive in Gaza , which in turn is a reaction to Hamas ' Oct. 7 assault on Israel that saw 1,200 people killed and around 240 taken hostage . <p> Gaza 's Hamas-run Health Ministry claims that the war has killed at least 34,097 Palestinians and wounded another 76,980 , though Israel has disputed these figures . The ministry does n't differentiate between combatants and civilians in its count . <h> Harvard closes Harvard Yard as anti-Israel protesters take over Ivy League campuses : report <p> A sign marking the closure of Harvard Yard to non-Harvard affiliated persons to prevent demonstrations is seen on April 22 , 2024 in Cambridge , Massachusetts . ( Photo by Scott Eisen/Getty Images ) <p> Harvard University has closed Harvard Yard at the heart of its campus and is restricting access to the outside area until Friday , according to a report , a move that comes as anti-Israel protesters take over open areas of other Ivy League campuses . <p> Signs posted on the gates of Harvard Yard on Sunday said that the area was closed to non-Harvard ID holders and that " structures , including tents and tables " are not permitted without prior permission , the Harvard Crimson first reported . <p> Blocking pedestrian pathways and access to building entrances was also prohibited , according to the Crimson . The university said that students who violate these policies are subject to disciplinary action . <p> Fox News Digital reached out to Harvard University but did not immediately receive a response . <p> The announcement comes after more than 200 anti-Israel protesters gathered in Harvard Yard on Friday and demanded that the university divest from Israeli companies and investments in the West Bank . <h> Bottles thrown at police officers during NYU protests Monday night <p> Anti-Israel Protests at New York University 's campus turned violent Monday night when demonstrators hurled bottles at police officers who were sent to the scene , officials said . <p> " When NYU asked the NYPD to clear Gould Plaza of individuals who were refusing to disperse and were ' interfering with the safety and security of our community. , ' our officers moved in without delay , " said NYPD Deputy Commissioner , Operations Kaz Daughtry . <p> " Unfortunately , as they were dispersing the crowd , some chose violence and pelted the police with bottles , " Daughtry said . " The professionalism and composure our officers showed as they cleared the plaza -- despite these dangerous acts of aggression they encountered -- are to be commended . " <p> The deputy commissioner shared video that appears to show bottles thrown at police . <p> Mass arrests began around 8:30 p.m. after the protest escalated the plaza in front of the business school . The university released a statement explaining while it supports students ' rights to protest , safety remains its priority . <p> " Today 's events did not need to lead to this outcome , " NYU spokesperson John Beckman said in a statement . <p> Beckman said the protests were " considerably disruptive of classes and other operations in schools around the plaza . " <p> " Nonetheless we made no move to clear the plaza at that point because high among the University 's aims was to avoid any escalation or violence , " Beckman said . " So , the University was deeply disturbed when , early this afternoon , additional protesters , many of whom we believe were not affiliated with NYU , suddenly breached the barriers that had been put in place at the north side of the plaza and joined the others already on the plaza . This breach was in violation of directions from Campus Safety Officers and in violation of multiple University rules . " <p> " This development dramatically changed the situation , " he continued . " We witnessed disorderly , disruptive , and antagonizing behavior that has interfered with the safety and security of our community , and that demonstrated how quickly a demonstration can get out of control or people can get hurt . " <p> Rep. John Carter , R-Texas said " unhinged anti-Israel activists " vandalized his Georgetown office , posting pictures of the display on social media just days after he voted in favor of providing $26 billion in aid to Israel . <p> On Monday morning , Carter posted an image of the door to his Georgetown , Texas office , splattered with red liquid that spelled out , " Free Gaza . " <p> " Unhinged anti-Israel activists vandalized my Georgetown office , " he posted . " Let me make 2 things clear , my support of Israel is unwavering &amp; your intimidation wo n't work . Secondly , the parties responsible will be found &amp; will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law . " <p> FOX 7 in Austin reported that officers with the Georgetown Police Department responded to Carter 's office at about 8:45 a.m. after reports of a possible burglary . <p> Police told the station it is investigating the vandalism as criminal mischief , which in Texas is a misdemeanor if the loss is between $750 and $2,500 . <p> The incident comes as anti-Israel agitators continue to protest at major cities and universities across the country , including Columbia University in New York City . <h> Columbia 's main campus moves to hybrid learning for remainder of semester over anti-Israel protests <p> Leonardo Munoz / AFP ) ( Photo by LEONARDO MUNOZ/AFP via Getty Images <p> Columbia University in New York City announced Monday evening that classes at its main campus will be remote for the remainder of the season over safety concerns following days of anti-Israel protests on campus . <p> " Safety is our highest priority as we strive to support our students ' learning and all the required academic operations , " Columbia provost Angela V. Olinto said in a message to the university 's community . <p> The Morningside main campus will be moving all classes to hybrid learning , as long as classroom technology permits it , until the end of the Spring semester . <p> The university stated exceptions for arts and practice-based programs , saying that there will be in-person learning with " generous accommodations " supported by school deans and staff . <p> Courses at the Columbia University Irvine Medical Center and Manhattanville campuses will also remain in-person , operating as usual but offering accommodations for " religious reasons , or approved disability accommodations . " <p> " All faculty whose classrooms are located on the main Morningside campus and equipped with hybrid capabilities should enable them to provide virtual learning options to students who need such a learning modality , " Olinto wrote . <p> " Faculty in other classrooms or teaching spaces that do not have capabilities for offering hybrid options should hold classes remotely if there are student requests for virtual participation , " she continued . " If the class does not permit adapting to the remote offering format , we encourage faculty to provide other accommodations liberally to students who have requested support for virtual learning this week . " <h> Arab-Israeli journalist speaks out after being attacked by anti-Israel agitator at Columbia U. <p> An Arab-Israeli journalist said anti-Israel agitators assaulted him ahead of a lecture he was supposed to give at Columbia University last Thursday . <p> Yoseph Haddad , a journalist , Israel Defense Forces veteran and activist who founded the interfaith group Together Vouch for Each Other , said a pro-Israel student group invited him to speak on campus about the coalition of Arabs and Jews in Israel last week , right as anti-Israel protests rocked the college campus . <p> When he first arrived , he was alarmed to find agitators chanting " intifada " and " from the river to the sea , " and confronted the group . <p> " Intifada means the moral death of Jews , the moral death of Arabs , " he said . <p> The Israeli journalist said he asked the group how they could " literally support terrorism " before they turned their hostilities toward him . Haddad said they began hurling death threats and antisemitic slurs at him even though he is not Jewish . <p> California State Polytechnic University , Humboldt announced that the campus will be closed through Wednesday for safety concerns in response to anti-Israel demonstrations . <p> In a statement , the university said the campus would be closed " for the safety of the campus community " as protestors continue occupying Siemens Hall . <p> " The campus community is advised to avoid the area of the building , as it is a dangerous and volatile situation , " the statement said . <p> " The University is deeply concerned about the safety of the protestors who have barricaded themselves inside the building , " the statement continued . " The University is urgently asking that the protestors listen to directives from law enforcement that have responded and to peacefully leave the building . " <p> The university said in-person classes and activities will be transitioning to remote where possible . <h> NYU asked NYPD to gain control of ' disorderly ' anti-Israel protest : ' Did not need to lead to this ' <p> Getty Images <p> After an anti-Israel protest escalated at New York University on Monday -- requiring city police presence -- the university released a statement explaining while it supports students ' rights to protest , safety remains its priority . <p> " Today 's events did not need to lead to this outcome , " NYU spokesperson John Beckman said in a statement . <p> Mass arrests began around 8:30 p.m. and , within an hour , the demonstration had largely fizzled out . <p> Roughly 50 anti-Israel protesters started a demonstration on the plaza in front of the business school Monday morning without notice or authorization from NYU , according to Beckman . <p> The university closed access to the plaza , placed barriers and emphasized that it would not allow additional protesters to join the demonstration because it was already " considerably disruptive of classes and other operations in schools around the plaza , " Beckman said . <p> In response to intimidating chants , antisemitic incidents and safety issues , the university requested assistance from the NYPD , who initially urged people on the plaza to leave peacefully before ultimately making several arrests . <p> " We will continue to support individuals ' right to freedom of expression , and , as we have said since October , the safety of our students and maintaining an equitable learning environment remain paramount , " Beckman said , referring to the initial response to protests following Hamas terrorists ' Oct. 7 attack against Israel , which started the ongoing war in the Middle East . <h> Ex-CNN anchor bringing her sons to Israel where she says they will be ' safer ' than in New York City <p> Former CNN host Campbell Brown declared Sunday she is heading to Israel with her sons , arguing that the embattled country is currently more welcoming to her Jewish family than New York City , where antisemitic protests have roiled Columbia University . <p> Just before Passover began , the former news anchor and ex-Meta executive wrote on social media , " I 'm on my way to Israel where my two sons will be safer and feel more welcomed than they would be today on the Upper West Side . #AmYisraelChai The people of Israel live . " <p> Brown 's husband , former Bush administration foreign policy adviser and author Dan Senor , responded with a series of emojis in support of her statement . <p> New York City has been a hotbed of massive anti-Israel protests since the Oct. 7 Hamas terrorist attacks . Columbia University , in particular , one of America 's most prestigious universities , has been shaken by such demonstrations in the past several days . <p> The New York City Police Department arrested several anti-Israel protesters on New York University 's campus after school officials requested police presence to clear out people who refused to leave the area . <p> NYPD Deputy Commissioner Kaz Daughtry said the department received a letter from NYU on Monday " detailing a request to clear Gould Plaza of individuals who were refusing to comply with repeated requests to disperse . " <p> " They were described as ' interfering with the safety and security of our community . ' Our officers responded to the location without delay and dispersed the crowd -- making numerous arrests , as necessary , " Daughtry said . <p> " There is a pattern of behavior occurring on campuses across our nation , in which individuals attempt to occupy a space in defiance of school policy , " he continued . " Rest assured , in NYC the NYPD stands ready to address these prohibited and subsequently illegal actions whenever we are called upon . " <h> Rabbi : Columbia University proves we need ' real enforcement ' by White House against ' anarchy ' <p> Anti-Israel agitators construct an encampment on Columbia University 's campus in New York City on Monday . The university announced that all classes would be held virtually today in response to the ongoing demonstrations on campus . ( Peter Gerber ) <p> Rabbi Moshe Hauer is calling on the White House and federal government to take a harder stance on combating campus antisemitism after the " anarchy " at Columbia University . <p> " What was very clear last week was basically a cry from the university leadership of Columbia and from the law school , the former law school dean , who 's the head of the antisemitism Task Force , that they do n't know how to draw the line between what is permitted and what is forbidden . And that task should not be on a task force of the community . That task , that definition , should be provided by the government of the country that tells them what 's permitted , what 's forbidden , " Hauer told Fox News Digital . <p> He continued , " The Justice Department , the Department of Education , should be telling the schools where the line is , should be telling the schools what appropriate enforcement looks like . Meanwhile , they 're left to figure it out for themselves . And that 's helping to grow this problem , the absence of crystal-clear guidance from our government and moral support in that enforcement . " <p> On Sunday , Orthodox Union-Jewish Learning Initiative ( OU-JLIC ) Director Rabbi Elie Buechler put out a recommendation for Jewish students to return home ahead of Passover . <p> " The events of the last few days , especially last night , have made it clear that Columbia University 's Public Safety and the NYPD can not guarantee Jewish students ' safety in the face of extreme antisemitism and anarchy , " Buechler wrote . " It deeply pains me to say that I would strongly recommend you return home as soon as possible and remain home until the reality in and around campus has dramatically improved . " <h> NYU anti-Israel protesters form human chain as NYPD moves in <p> The New York Police Department was making several arrest of pro-Palestinian protesters at New York University on Monday night . <p> Large crowds were on the campus all day protesting Israel amid its war with Hamas . <p> Authorities warned the anti-Israel protesters that they needed to disperse . Instead , some began forming a human chain as the police moved in . The participants also denounced capitalism and stomped on the Israeli flag . <p> " This is the New York City Police Department , " an officer is heard saying over a loudspeaker . " You have been warned by New York University to leave the area . Please leave the plaza now or you will be arrested for trespass . " <p> At least two police buses and several police vans were seen in the area . <h> Columbia president condemns terrorism after video surfaces of her calling it ' form of protesting ' <p> As Columbia University President Dr. Nemat " Minouche " Shafik faces scrutiny from ongoing campus protests over Israel 's war with Hamas , a more than 20-year-old video is getting renewed attention for remarks on the causes of terrorism . <p> The video , filmed just two months after 9/11 , shows Shafik -- who was then vice president at the World Bank -- discussing the economic roots of terrorism with UC Berkeley 's Harry Kreisler on the program , " Conversations with History . " <p> Shafik argued that although terrorism has sprung up in " fairly rich and open societies , " its most fertile ground is in countries beset by " economic stagnation and political authoritarianism . " <p> " You 'll always have individuals with extreme views . But what 's really troubling in the region is that there 's actually quite a broad base of society which has some sympathy for the terrorists , not so much because they approve of their methods , but it 's a form of protesting against a system which is not delivering for them on the economic or the political front , " she said . <h> Students at Columbia undergrad school vote in favor of divestment from Israel <p> Anti-Israel agitators construct an encampment on Columbia University 's campus in New York City on Monday . ( Peter Gerber ) <p> Students at one of Columbia University 's undergraduate colleges has voted in favor of a referendum asking if the school should divest from Israel . <p> Students at Columbia College were asked if the university should divest financially from Israel , cancel the Tel Aviv Global Center , and end Columbia 's dual degree program with Tel Aviv University , the Columbia Spector reported . <p> More than 60% of the 2,013 students who voted were in favor of divestment for each of the three questions . <p> " Columbia University welcomes and embraces the Israeli students , faculty , and staff on our campus , " a University spokesperson wrote in a statement to Spectator , the student newspaper . <p> " We also benefit greatly from our dual degree program with Tel Aviv University . " <p> The vote has no impact on university policy but lets officials know where students stand . <p> Teji Vijayakumar , president of the Columbia College Student Council , told the student newspaper she does n't " necessarily think that this referendum will be enough to get divestment . " <p> Vijayakumar , instead , hopes the university senate will put out a university-wide referendum to form a consensus on the matter . The referendum results came amid days of protests at the university in which participants have called for a halt of aid to Israel . <h> Harvard suspends pro-Palestinian group for rest of spring term <p> A sign outside Harvard Yard warns that only those with Harvard IDs can enter the yard , outside Harvard University on Monday . The sign also cautions that any structures , like the tents and tables used at protests at other colleges , are n't allowed without permission and students caught violating the policies are subject to disciplinary action . ( AP Photo/Steve LeBlanc ) <p> Harvard University has suspended its Undergraduate Palestine Solidarity Committee and ordered them to cease all organizational activities for the remainder of the Spring 2024 term or risk permanent expulsion , according to reports . <p> The group confirmed the suspension on its Instagram account . <p> The PSC was one of several groups to stage a rally at Harvard Yard , located at the heart of the Ivy League campus , last week in solidarity with students at Columbia University , The Harvard Crimson reported . <p> More than 100 students were arrested last week during protests at Columbia , many for trespassing , the New York Police Department said . <p> Harvard told the PSC that suspension came after the group failed to register a demonstration and violated university guidelines on the use of space . <p> The group had previously been placed on probation by the College in March , according to the email , according to the student newspaper . <p> " The organization will not be recognized and will not have access to university benefits and services during this time , including but not limited to use of campus space and appropriate use of the Harvard name , " the email stated . " If the organization continues to operate and commits additional violations during this suspension , the organization risks permanent expulsion , as provided in the Resource Guide . " <h> NY AG Letitia James calls anti-Israel events at Columbia University ' concerning and painful ' <p> New York Attorney General Letitia James speaks during a news briefing . ( AP Photo/Bebeto Matthews , File ) <p> New York Attorney General Letitia James on Monday called the anti-Israel protests at Columbia University " concerning and painful . " <p> " The events that have occurred at Columbia University have been deeply concerning and painful for many , " James said in a statement . " The right to protest peacefully is the bedrock of our nation 's democracy . However , when peaceful protest devolves into hate and antisemitic violence , the line is crossed and will not be tolerated . My office is monitoring the situation closely . <p> " We know the dire consequences of failing to stand tall in the face of hate , and this moment must be a clarion call to respond to those who seek to spark the flames of division , " she added . <h> 60 arrested at Yale anti-Israel protests , school president says <p> A woman walks by a Yale sign reflected in the rainwater on the Yale University campus , Aug. 22 , 2021 , in New Haven , Conn . Columbia University canceled in-person classes Monday , April 22 , 2024 and police arrested several dozen protesters at Yale University as tensions on U.S. college campuses continue to grow over the war in the Middle East . ( AP Photo/Ted Shaffrey , File ) <p> Sixty people were arrested at Yale University for refusing to voluntarily leave a portion of the Connecticut campus , the school president said Monday evening . <p> Those arrested were taken into custody by Yale police after they refused to leave an encampment set up last week . Of those arrested , 47 were Yale students , university president Peter Salovey said in a message . <p> " I am grateful that we were able to take these actions peacefully and that none of the protesters resisted arrest , " he said . " We will pursue disciplinary action to address possible violations of our policies , particularly those policies prohibiting threats , intimidation , coercion , harassment , and physical harm as well as conduct that interferes with university operations . " <p> Salovey noted that the protesters were warned that unauthorized use of campus space would result in disciplinary and legal action . <p> " Members of the Jewish , Muslim , Israeli , Arab , and Palestinian communities reported that the campus environment had become increasingly difficult , " he said . <p> " We then became aware of police reports identifying harmful acts and threatening language used against individuals at or near the protest sites , " he added . <h> Anti-Israel protesters at NYU chant ' From the river to the sea , ' anti-police phrases <p> Protesters at New York University displayed solidarity with the Palestinian people on Monday as displays against Israel continue on college campuses . <p> Video footage at a gathering in Manhattan show a crowd chanting " Free , Free Palestine " and " From the river to the sea , Palestine will be free . " <p> The slogan is a pro-Palestinian liberation phrase that has been used by Hamas and other anti-Israel actors as a call to arms against the Jewish state . <p> It refers to the land between the Jordan River and The Mediterranean Sea , which encompasses Israel . A House resolution condemning the phrase recently passed with 44 Democrats and one Republican opposing . <p> Protesters were also chanting anti-police phrases ' <p> " No Justice , no peace . F*** these racists a** police , " they were heard saying . <h> UC Berkeley students make ' Camp Free Palestine ' to get school to divest from companies aiding Israel <p> Pro-Palestinian activists on Monday organized a " Camp Free Palestine " in front at the University of California at Berkeley , similar to what students at Columbia University in New York have done in recent days . <p> The gathering spot was in front of Sprout Hall in the main quad area of the campus . As of Monday afternoon , there was at least a dozen tents . <p> " With three weeks left in the semester , Berkeley is prioritizing students ' academic interests , " a school statement to Fox News states . " We will take the steps necessary to ensure the protest does not disrupt the university 's operations . There are no plans to change the university 's investment policies and practices . " <p> Organizers with the UC Berkeley Graduate Students for Justice in Palestine said the encampment is in solidarity with students from Columbia University and elsewhere who 've been arrested . They said the tents will remain until the school divests from corporations , particularly military manufacturers , that are aiding Israel in its war effort against Hamas . <p> Participants said they were prepared to be arrested . A rally on Monday drew several hundred people and was peaceful . <h> White House mum on whether Biden would send National Guard to Columbia University <p> Despite multiple efforts on Monday to get an answer from the White House , officials remained silent on the issue of whether President Biden intends to deploy the National Guard to break up anti-Israel protests at Columbia University . <p> Fox News Digital asked the White House whether it would comment on the situation at Columbia University and if it required federal intervention , but did n't receive any response . The silence comes as hundreds of anti-Israel agitators have mounted disruptive protests at the university 's campus in New York City , with some calling for violence against Jews and Jewish students . <p> " Eisenhower sent the 101st to Little Rock , " Sen. Josh Hawley , R-Mo. , said in a social media post Monday . " It 's time for Biden to call out the National Guard at our universities to protect Jewish Americans . " <p> " The nascent pogroms at Columbia have to stop TODAY , before our Jewish brethren sit for Passover Seder tonight , " Sen. Tom Cotton , R-Ark. , added . " If Eric Adams wo n't send the NYPD and Kathy Hochul wo n't send the National Guard , Joe Biden has a duty to take charge and break up these mobs . " <p> Last week , anti-Israel agitators initiated protests , staging what they labeled a " Gaza solidarity encampment " on the Columbia University campus and shutting down a central lawn at the university . The protesters , who erected tents as part of the action , called for hostilities in the Middle East to end and for the university to divest of companies that have ties to Israel . <p> During a Earth Day press conference , AOC said that the protests at Columbia University were " peacefu ; . " ( Fox News ) <p> During an Earth Day news conference , Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez , D-N.Y. , switched gears and called the student-led protests happening across college campuses across the country " peaceful . " <p> " Today also serves as a reminder of the power of organizing , of what we can accomplish when young people , climate advocates , labor organizers and working people of all backgrounds come together to demand the future . We all deserve . It is especially important that we remember the power of young people shaping the country today , " Ocasio-Cortez said . <p> " Of all days as we one once again witness the leadership of those peaceful student-led protests on campuses like Columbia , Yale , Berkeley and many others , " Ocasio-Cortez continued . <p> Her message comes as the Orthodox rabbi at Columbia University and Barnard College sent a message recommending Jewish students leave campus and go home as anti-Israel agitators have continued an " encampment " on campus and participants were caught on camera sympathizing with the terrorist group Hamas . <h> Anti-Israel crowd at Yale confined to single intersection after campus police action <p> Pro-Palestinian agitators who had occupied Yale University 's Beinecke Plaza over the weekend put on a toned-down display at a single intersection on the edge of campus Monday after police shut down their encampment in the morning . <p> Yale police announced 47 student arrests after the demonstrators refused the school 's invitation to voice their concerns with university trustees and also ignored police requests to clear out . <p> On Monday afternoon , traffic around the intersection of Grove and College streets was closed to cars as more than 200 people gathered , some singing pro-Palestinian slogans as many sat in the sun with their laptops and beach chairs . <p> Campus police and their city of New Haven counterparts maintained a visible presence as activists handed out snacks and drinks in the Connecticut college town . <p> Group members visited the LA Times Festival of Books on the USC campus to also support 2024 valedictorian , Asna Tabassum , who was supposed to give her valedictorian remarks at this years commencement ceremony before the school scrapped canceled the speech . <p> " Today at the LA Times Festival of Books we put Palestine on the agenda ! " Code Pink posted on X. " Ahead of World Central Kitchen 's Jose Andres ' speech , we demanded accountability for Israel 's murder of 35,000+ Palestinians and WCK aid workers . FREE FREE PALESTINE . " <p> Code Pink members were seen walking on the Los Angeles campus with signs calling for a ceasefire between Israel and Hamas and holding Palestinian flags . <p> Last week , USC announced it would be not be allowing Tabassum , a biomedical engineering major , to give her valedictorian speech during the main stage commencement after a series of social media posts she made about Israel . <p> " To be clear : this decision has nothing to do with freedom of speech . There is no free-speech entitlement to speak at a commencement . The issue here is how best to maintain campus security and safety , period , " Andrew Guzman , Provost and Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs , wrote in the statement . <h> House Dems , Republicans condemn anti-Israel Columbia University protests : an ' attack on democracy ' ' <p> Several congressional lawmakers decried antisemitism on college campuses , particularly Columbia University , this weekend as anti-Israel protesters briefly took over a part of the Ivy League school campus , resulting in hundreds of arrests . <p> Amid the demonstrations that began last week , Columbia University President Dr. Nemat " Minouche " Shafik said in a statement posted Monday that she was " deeply saddened " by certain actions of agitators , who have formed an " encampment " on the campus and have riled students and faculty with anti-Jewish slogans and chants . <p> " I am deeply saddened by what is happening on our campus , " Shafik wrote . " Our bonds as a community have been severely tested in ways that will take a great deal of time and effort to reaffirm . Students across an array of communities have conveyed fears for their safety and we have announced additional actions we are taking to address security concerns . The decibel of our disagreements has only increased in recent days . These tensions have been exploited and amplified by individuals who are not affiliated with Columbia who have come to campus to pursue their own agendas . " <p> U.S. Rep. Jared Moskowitz , D-Fla. , visited the university over the weekend to stand with Jewish students , some of whom have said they do n't feel safe on campus . <p> " Collectively , not just the folks here , but on a bipartisan basis , we in Congress are going to do something about it , " he said in a video posted to X. <p> Dozens of anti-Israel agitators who gathered at Yale University 's Beinecke Plaza demanding divestment from weapon manufacturers turned down a chance to meet with school trustees and the chairperson of the campus ' investor responsibility committee on Sunday before they were arrested in a Monday morning raid , according to a university official . Yale authorities spent the weekend attempting to negotiate with the group to no avail . <p> " The university also spent several hours in discussion with student protesters yesterday , offering them the opportunity to meet with trustees , including the chair of the Corporation Committee on Investor Responsibility ( CCIR ) , and to avoid arrest if they left the plaza by the end of the weekend , " a Yale University spokesperson told Fox News Digital . " They declined this offer and continued to occupy the plaza . " <p> According to the university 's website , the board of trustees had a pre-planned meeting scheduled for Saturday . But the agitators made their demands without meeting the board , the spokesperson said . <p> According to the university 's website , the board of trustees had a pre-planned meeting scheduled for Saturday . <p> But the agitators made their demands without meeting the board , the spokesperson said . <h> Columbia University anti-Israel protesters : 5 dramatic moments from a week of chaos <p> Chaos has engulfed the Ivy League . <p> Protesters at Columbia University have spent days protesting against Israel 's war with Hamas , forcing authorities to arrest more than 100 of the agitators , and the school 's president has shifted all classes to virtual learning on Monday amid safety concerns . <p> Columbia University President Dr. Nemat " Minouche " Shafik mostly closed the campus and urged commuting students not to travel to the campus in a statement posted just after 1 a.m. on Monday . In the statement , the president said she was " deeply saddened " by certain actions of the agitators , who have formed an " encampment " on the campus and have riled students and faculty with anti-Jewish slogans and chants . <p> The statement is the latest action from the school 's administration amid the fiery protests in and around the New York City campus that began Wednesday as dozens of anti-Israel activists created an encampment on the main lawn of campus . <p> To read about dramatic moments on the campus from Columbia University anti-Israel protests , click here . <h> Schumer , handful of Dem senators join Republicans to condemn antisemitism at Columbia University <p> Sens . Kirsten Gillibrand and Chuck Schumer were among those to denounce antisemitism on Columbia 's campus , joining their Republican colleagues . ( Getty Images ) <p> A number of Democrats in the Senate have joined their Republican colleagues in denouncing discrimination against Jewish students at the prestigious Ivy League Columbia University , where an anti-Israel solidarity encampment persists on campus , prompting the institution to move classes online on Monday . <p> " Every American has a right to protest , " Majority Leader Chuck Schumer , D-N.Y. , said in a statement . <p> " But when protests shift to antisemitism , verbal abuse , intimidation , or glorification of Oct. 7 violence against Jewish people , that crosses the line . " <p> " Campuses must remain safe for all students . " <p> Schumer , who represents New York City , where Columbia is located , is the first Jewish majority leader in the Senate and also the highest ranking Jewish elected official in U.S. history . <p> Last week , the anti-Israel demonstration sprang up on Columbia 's campus , with students camping out in tents and demanding that the university divest from all companies with ties to Israel . Since then , the protest has grown in size and presented a safety threat to Jewish students . This has mushroomed into such a concern that an Orthodox rabbi at the school advised Jewish students to leave campus because " Columbia University 's Public Safety and the NYPD can not guarantee Jewish students ' safety . " <h> Jewish , pro-Israel Columbia University professor says he was blocked from entering campus <p> A Jewish Columbia University professor who has been critical of the school 's response to widespread anti-Israel protests and planned a counter demonstration said Monday that he was blocked from entering the main campus . <p> Assistant business professor Shai Davidai , who was born in Israel and has called for Columbia leadership to resign as anti-Israel agitators wreak havoc on campus , said his keycard to enter the school 's main campus had been deactivated . <p> " I have , not just a civil right , a civil right as a Jewish person to be on campus . I have a right as a professor employed by the university to be on campus . They deactivated my card , " Davidai told demonstrators Monday . <p> The moment when Davidai apparently realized his entry card was deactivated was captured on video that quickly spread on social media . <p> " My card has been deactivated ? Why ? Wait , wait , wait , everybody my card has been deactivated . This is Cas Holloway , the COO Chief Operating Officer , this is Vice President for Public Safety Gerald Lewis . They were in the meeting when I asked them if Hamas is a terror organization , and they could n't say that it is a terrorist organization , " Davidai told the crowd as Holloway and Lewis looked on . <h> New York House Republicans call for Columbia University president to resign <p> Republicans from New York in the House of Representatives have written a letter Monday calling for Columbia University President Minouche Shafik to resign over her handling of the anti-Israel demonstrations on campus . <p> " Over the past few days , anarchy has engulfed the campus of Columbia University . As the leader of this institution , one of your chief objectives , morally and under law , is to ensure students have a safe learning environment , " they wrote . " By every measure , you have failed this obligation . The situation unfolding on campus right now is a direct product of your policies and misguided decisions . " <p> " As Representatives from the State of New York , many of our constituents are directly impacted by the unfolding chaos on Columbia 's campus , " they continued . " Based on these recent events and your testimony in front of Congress , we have no confidence in your leadership of this once esteemed institution . " <h> Patriots ' Robert Kraft pulls support for Columbia University amid antisemitic violence <p> Robert Kraft speaks on March 7 , 2024 , in New York City . ( John Lamparski/Getty Images ) <p> New England Patriots team owner Robert Kraft made it his mission to " stand up to Jewish hate " in the wake of the Oct. 7 terror attacks in Israel and on Monday he went a step further . <p> Kraft announced he was pulling his support for Columbia University amid the antisemitic violence at the Ivy League school . He released a statement through his philanthropic organization , Foundation to Combat Antisemitism . <p> " It was through the full academic scholarship Columbia gave me that I was able to attend college and get my start in life and for that I have been tremendously grateful , " Kraft 's statement read . " However , the school I love so much -- the one that welcomed me and provided me with so much opportunity -- is no longer an institution I recognize . <p> " I am deeply saddened at the virulent hate that continues to grow on campus and throughout our country . I am no longer confident that Columbia can protect its students and staff and I am not comfortable supporting the university until corrective action is taken . <h> Michael Rapaport calls anti-Israel protests at Columbia an ' embarrassment to New York City ' <p> Rapoport , speaking near Columbia University , said " as offensive as these people are across the street , agenda number one ... is to free our hostages , " prompting a crowd to start chanting " bring them home ! " <p> " These are bullies . These are cowards . These are pathetic , low-life scumbags , " Rapoport continued . " Agenda number one A is to eradicate Hamas to the very last one of them . " <p> " For all you Jewish younger people ... be prouder , be louder than you 've ever been before about being Jewish , " Rapoport also said . <p> " Do not be afraid of being Jewish , especially in New York City . Nobody should be afraid of what they are , " he added . " Their race , their religion , their sexuality in this city . " <h> Columbia protester who ' killed ' VT couple in crash belongs in prison , not college : victims ' family <p> Protestors demonstrate at Columbia University on Thursday , April 18 , in New York City . ( AP/Joshua Briz ) <p> A wealthy young woman who avoided prison time for a deadly 2020 crash that killed a Vermont couple was among 114 anti-Israel agitators arrested at Columbia University last week -- enraging the victims ' family . <p> Protests have been rocking the campus in recent days as anti-Israel sympathizers demand the Israeli military stop fighting back after Hamas terrorists launched an attack on the country in October . <p> Things have gotten so bad that a campus rabbi is urging Jewish students to leave amid concerns for their safety . <p> One of the protesters is Isabel Jennifer Seward , now 20 , the New York Post revealed , citing arrest records . She was 16 when she allegedly drove over the double yellow lines and plowed into Chet and Connie Hawkins , 73 and 72 . Police reports allege she made no effort to avoid the crash . <p> " She has no remorse , she received no punishment . She 's just prancing around Columbia with her Ivy League privilege , " the couple 's 49-year-old niece , Eve Taylor , told the Post Sunday . " After basically getting away with murder , she 's now promoting murder , with no understanding of what she 's promoting . " <p> NYPD Deputy Commissioner of Public Information Tarik Sheppard said Monday that " there 's been no credible threats to any particular group or individual coming from this protest or any other " at Columbia University , where anti-Israel demonstrations have been raging . <p> Deputy Commissioner of Operations Kaz Daughtry added that the local bureau commander " has been in close contact with the school administration here , and they asked -- the only NYPD assistance that they have currently asked for -- is for us to patrol the outside , the outer perimeter of the school . " <p> " We have received reports that Israeli students walking on campus had their flags taken away from them , snatched out of their hands . We also received reports that the Israeli students -- there were some hateful things that were said towards them and they want to know if that was a crime or not , " Daughtry added . " But there has been we have received any reports of any physical harm against any student . However , if there 's any student , Jewish or whoever that 's been assaulted or wants to make a police report or wants to talk to the police , we encourage them to call 911 . " <h> NYPD says ' violence is not going to be tolerated ' at Columbia , which does n't want officers there <p> Michael Gerber , the NYPD Deputy Commissioner of Legal Matters , said Monday that " any kind of violence is not going to be tolerated " as anti-Israel demonstrations have upended Columbia University . <p> " Any kind of property damage is not going it is not going to be tolerated , " he continued . " Any sort of criminality is not going to be tolerated . And that includes harassment or threats or menacing or stalking or anything like that that is not protected by the First Amendment . " <p> Gerber earlier said " Columbia University is private property " and " absent some ongoing crime , we can not just go on the Columbia campus as we see fit . " <p> " It is up to the university to decide whether or not they want us on campus . As a general matter , Columbia University -- and this goes back many years -- does not want NYPD present on campus . That is their decision , " Gerber added . <p> " Last week , on Thursday , they informed us that they had students who were trespassing . They asked us to come on the campus to take action , and we did , " he continued . " But that was an exceptional case in the normal course . They 've made clear that we 're not to be there . " <h> Republican NY congresswoman calls for Columbia University president to resign <p> Rep. Nicole Malliotakis , a Republican from New York , during an interview on Capitol Hill in Washington , D.C. in July 2023 . ( Valerie Plesch/Bloomberg via Getty Images ) <p> A Republican congresswoman from New York is calling Monday for Columbia University President Minouche Shafik to resign over anti-Israel demonstrations on campus . <p> " It 's clear Columbia University President Shafik ca n't get her school under control or protect her students &amp; she should resign , " Rep. Nicole Malliotakis wrote on X. " The gross antisemitism being displayed against Jewish students at Columbia University is horrific , unacceptable and the reason I introduced legislation to strip federal funding from colleges that blatantly allow antisemitism &amp; do n't hold those responsible accountable . " <p> Rep. Elise Stefanik , a fellow New York Republican , made a similar call on Sunday for Shafik to step down . <p> A Jewish student journalist at Yale University says a protester wielding a Palestinian flag jabbed her in the eye during a rowdy anti-Israel protest on campus Saturday evening and got away with it . <p> Sahar Tartak , editor-in-chief of the Yale Free Press , had been covering the protest , which had drawn hundreds of students in support of Palestinians , when she says she was surrounded by a mob of protesters . <p> " One of the students , whose face was covered in a keffiyeh , took a Palestinian flag that he was holding , waved it in my face and hit my left eye , " Tartak said . <p> Tartak tried to run after the assailant , but the human blockade prevented her from pursuing him because " they wanted to protect him . " Others were laughing at her , and none made an effort to track him down , she said . <p> " He had anonymity because of the keffiyeh . The organizers encourage anonymity at these events because it creates immunity , so that students can physically assault people like me and then get away with it , " she said . <h> Fetterman hammers ' a--hole ' anti-Israel protesters , slams own party for response to Iranian attack <p> Sen. John Fetterman , D-Pa. , reiterated his criticisms of activists calling for cease-fire in Gaza , and slammed fellow Democrats for their " crazy " response to the attacks Iran has launched against Israel , in an interview with Fox Digital . <p> " It is not appropriate or legal or helpful to advance your argument if you show up in a Starbucks with a bullhorn and start yelling at people , " he told Fox News Digital in a Friday interview . <p> He also claimed such protests do n't " make you noble . " <p> " It just makes you an a--hole , " Fetterman said . <p> Since the onset of the war between Israel and terrorist group Hamas , anti-Israel demonstrations have erupted across the U.S. The protesters have gone to extreme lengths at times to telegraph their displeasure with U.S. policy in regard to Israel . Some have trespassed in government buildings , blocked high-traffic bridges and entered private businesses with bullhorns , chanting at employees . <h> Columbia University student no longer feels ' physically safe ' on campus after protests <p> Stein , speaking on the first day of Passover , said he and Jewish students came to the campus Saturday night to " sing songs of peace " to what has been described as a " Gaza Solidarity Encampment . " <p> But on the way out , " a pro-Hamas mob started chasing us , calling us -- in the middle of campus -- calling us inbred , that we have no culture " and stole an Israeli flag from a student , he said . <p> " They tried to light his flag on fire , " he said . " After that , on the way out , we were talking to public safety -- they started following us on the way out -- and public safety just shrugged their shoulders , " Stein added . " They are the ones who are responsible in protecting us . " <p> Fellow student Elisha Baker added that " we know that these are anti-Semites using anti-Semitic rhetoric " and " now we see what happens when you do n't shut down anti-Semitic rhetoric and you allow these people to feel entitled . " <p> New York City police officers in riot gear stand guard as demonstrators chant slogans outside the Columbia University campus on Thursday , April 18 , , in New York . ( AP/Mary Altaffer ) <p> New York City Mayor Eric Adams on Sunday warned that the New York City Police Department " can not have a presence " at Columbia University 's campus " unless specifically requested by senior university officials , " decrying " professional agitators " and " antisemitism being spewed " at the Ivy League School . <p> " I am horrified and disgusted with the antisemitism being spewed at and around the Columbia University campus , " Adams said , citing the example of a young woman holding a sign with an arrow pointing to Jewish students stating " Al-Qasam 's Next Targets . " <p> The Al-Qassam Brigade is the military wing of Hamas . <p> The mayor noted another instance where a woman is literally yelling " We are Hamas , " and another where groups of students are chanting " We do n't want no Zionists here . " <p> " I condemn this hate speech in the strongest of terms . Supporting a terrorist organization that aims to kill Jews is sickening and despicable . As I have repeatedly said , hate has no place in our city , and I have instructed the NYPD to investigate any violation of law that is reported . Rest assured , the NYPD will not hesitate to arrest anyone who is found to be breaking the law , " Adams continued . " We will not be a city of lawlessness , and those professional agitators seeking to seize the ongoing conflict in the Middle East to sow chaos and division in our city will not succeed . " <p> Between 40 and 45 protesters were arrested as police looked through tents set up in the encampment near Beinecke Plaza , Yale Police Chief Anthony Campbell told the Yale Daily News reported . Beinecke Plaza is where more than 250 agitators had gathered Sunday night . <p> Protest organizers told the paper that at least some of those arrested are students . <p> Campbell told the Yale Daily News that the arrested protesters would be charged with trespassing , a Class A misdemeanor , and would be released once they are processed . <h> Columbia University president orders virtual classes as anti-Israel protests take over <p> NYPD officers patrol as pro-Palestine protesters demonstrate outside of Columbia University 's campus in New York City on Thursday , April 18 , 2024 . Columbia University President Dr. Nemat Shafik all classes will be held virtually on Monday . ( Peter Gerber for Fox News Digital ) <p> Columbia University President Dr. Nemat " Minouche " Shafik said in a statement posted in the early hours Monday morning , that she was " deeply saddened " by certain actions of agitators , who have formed an " encampment " on the campus and have riled students and faculty with anti-Jewish slogans and chants . <p> " I am deeply saddened by what is happening on our campus , " Shafik wrote . " Our bonds as a community have been severely tested in ways that will take a great deal of time and effort to reaffirm . Students across an array of communities have conveyed fears for their safety and we have announced additional actions we are taking to address security concerns . The decibel of our disagreements has only increased in recent days . These tensions have been exploited and amplified by individuals who are not affiliated with Columbia who have come to campus to pursue their own agendas . " <p> " We need a reset , " she added . " To deescalate the rancor and give us all a chance to consider next steps , I am announcing that all classes will be held virtually on Monday . Faculty and staff who can work remotely should do so ; essential personnel should report to work according to university policy . Our preference is that students who do not live on campus will not come to campus .
