<p> Haji Rahimi was named as the second commander killed in the attack on Iran 's consul ? ate building in the Syrian capi ? tal , according to the statement shared by state news agency IRNA on Monday night . <p> Speaking to reporters in Da ? mascus , Iranian ambassador Hossein Akbari alleged that the building " was targeted with six missiles from Israeli F-35 warplanes . " <p> " Between five and seven people were killed in the at ? tack . I was in my office in the embassy at the time and wit ? nessed the destruction myself , " Akbari said . Akbari added that Iranian diplomatic staff and mil ? itary advisers were killed in the attack , and their names will be announced later . In a separate interview later on Monday , he said two Syrian policemen were among the people injured . <p> The health ministry in Hamas-run Gaza said Monday that at least 32,845 people have been killed in the territory during the war be ? tween Israel and Palestinian militants . The toll includes at least 63 deaths over the past 24 hours , a ministry statement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wounded in the Gaza Strip since the war began when Hamas militants attacked Israel on October 7 . <p> Monday 's toll update was released hours after the Israeli mili ? tary withdrew from Gaza 's biggest hospital , Al-Shifa , after a two-week operation that saw heavy fighting . A spokesman for Gaza 's Civil Defence agency said Monday that Israeli forces killed about 300 people in and around the hospital over the two weeks of the operation . The Israeli military said Saturday that " approximate ? ly 200 terrorists have been eliminated in the area of the hospi ? tal since the beginning of the activity " . Israeli forces on Monday pulled out of Gaza 's largest hospital complex after an intensive two-week military operation , leaving behind charred buildings and bodies strewn at the sprawling complex . Israel said it had bat ? tled Palestinian militants hiding inside Gaza City 's Al-Shifa Hospi ? tal , killed at least 200 enemy fighters and recovered large stock ? piles of weapons , explosives and cash .
