<p> According to a press release issued by the Inter-Services Public Relations ( ISPR ) , the forum paid rich tribute to the supreme sacrifices of Shuhadas including officers and men of the Armed Forces , Law Enforcement Agencies and the citizens who have laid their lives for peace and stability in the country . COAS appreciated the untiring efforts of Pakistan Army and LEAs in successfully thwarting several terrorist attacks and neutralising key terrorist commanders during ongoing counterterrorism operations , the ISPR said . <p> COAS directed commanders to pro-actively deny any space to the terrorists . COAS said , " Armed Forces and LEAs of Pakistan , fully backed by the resilient nation , remain determined to permanently eliminate this menace from Pakistan , INSHA'ALLAH " . The forum condemned heartless terrorist attack against Chinese nationals in Besham as well as heinous killings of innocent civilians in Balochistan . The forum was briefed on how terrorist groups operating from Afghanistan pose a threat to regional and global security , besides acting as proxies against Pakistan and its economic interests , especially China-Pakistan Economic Corridor . The forum expressed serious concern over the ongoing Indian aggression in Illegally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the forum reiterated that Pakistan will continue to provide political , diplomatic and moral support to our Kashmiri brothers and sisters . The forum expressed solidarity with the people of Palestine and condemned serious human rights violations , war crimes and genocide being perpetrated in Gaza . The forum also expressed concern over the escalating tensions in the Middle East and noted that a wider regional conflict could ensue if both sides did not de-escalate immediately . The forum noted with concern the malicious propaganda campaign meant to demoralise the Armed Forces and underscored that " Unfounded and baseless allegations on Law Enforcement Agencies and Security Forces have become a fashion and are part of the larger design to drive a wedge between the people and the Armed Forces of Pakistan . We will not allow such efforts to succeed and as per the law and constitution , stern action will be ensured " .
